-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Medal of Honor Pacific Assault
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/medalofhonorpacificassault/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Believable Pacific theater environments.
 Often-impressive enemy artificial intelligence.
 Some cool verge-of-death moments.
 Solid objective-based multiplayer mode.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Long loading times.
 Some occasionally buggy artificial intelligence.
 System hog--tough to get smooth frame rates out of this one.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov  4, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.3
Critic Score: 8.0, 42 Review (s)
User Score: 8.5, 3,879 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Games
Developer: Dreamworks Games
Genre: Historic First-Person...
Date:     Nov 4, 2004 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Pacific Assault delivers some intense and challenging firefights in its single-player campaign, 
 while also offering a solid multiplayer component for the long haul. 

  Nearly three years ago, Electronic Arts brought its Medal of Honor series of World War II-themed 
 first-person shooters to the PC in Medal of Honor Allied Assault, and that game went on to become 
 highly influential. By combining intense run-and-gun shooting action with an incredibly authentic 
 atmosphere and some spectacular set-piece battles, Allied Assault helped establish the genre's 
 current high standards. Seemingly countless other historic war-themed shooters have been released 
 since then, so it's become very difficult for such a game to distinguish itself... or even compete. 
 Nevertheless, developer EALA was apparently up to the challenge with Medal of Honor Pacific Assault, 
 which takes the series into the Pacific theater of WWII and once again delivers some intense and 
 challenging firefights in its single-player campaign, while also offering a solid multiplayer component 
 for the long haul. Pacific Assault has a few rough edges (long loading times, chiefly among them) 
 and is demanding of even today's fastest PCs, but it ultimately succeeds at delivering a Hollywood-style 
 World War II experience, and it also features a few unique twists.  

          The Germans are given a break in Medal of Honor Pacific Assault; this time you're up against 
 the Japanese.     

  Pacific Assault features a good-sized single-player campaign consisting of roughly two dozen missions, 
 which will take you 10 or so hours to fight through at the game's default difficulty setting. Whereas 
 Allied Assault clearly drew inspiration from  Saving Private Ryan , Pacific Assault kicks off with 
 an ostentatious bang straight out of  Pearl Harbor  and proceeds to deliver some tense, cutthroat 
 action sequences (juxtaposed with a few thoughtful story bits designed to make the game's characters 
 seem more human) reminiscent of  The Thin Red Line . Throughout the game, you'll play as a Marine 
 named Tommy Conlin, and you'll fight together with the rest of his squad. As Conlin, you'll get 
 to wield a variety of authentic Allied and Axis WWII-era weapons, ranging from pistols to light 
 machine guns, and you'll be able to issue some basic orders to your squad. At one point, you'll 
 get to fly a plane. But, for the most part, you'll be stalking through dense jungle underbrush 
 while hoping to get a drop on your enemies before they do likewise. Your foes will often literally 
 come out of the woodwork, attacking you in waves and sometimes charging you savagely with their 
 bayonets. They're consistently daunting foes -- and not just because they'll constantly have greater 
 numbers. They'll take advantage of cover, flush you out with grenades, and seem to work in tandem 
 to defeat you.  

  The campaign occurs during the course of several years, which gave the designers license to change 
 some of the weapons, outfits, and settings from mission to mission. Pacific Assault starts off 
 slowly, with a drawn-out training sequence and sort of a guided tour of Pearl Harbor (leading up 
 to Japan's surprise attack) , but afterwards, the game's action mostly stays hot. You'll operate 
 in such places as Guadalcanal, Makin Atoll, Tarawa, and more. These tropical settings and the fearless 
 Japanese soldiers you'll be facing in each of them stand in sharp contrast to the ravaged European 
 countryside of Allied Assault and most WWII shooters. Ironically, though, the setting doesn't feel 
 all that different from that of the recent glut of Vietnam-based shooters, so when you're rustling 
 through the underbrush with a Thompson in hand, looking for any signs of your hidden foes, it's 
 actually easy to forget that this is World War II. Nevertheless, Pacific Assault does a great job 
 of rendering lush, tropical environments and the dangers they may conceal. The game's levels are 
 laid out in a pretty linear fashion, but they do effectively create the illusion that they're densely 
 wooded, sprawling battlefields instead of the easy-to-navigate first-person-shooter levels that 
 they are.  

  Probably the most interesting twist to Pacific Assault is how it forces you to recover your health 
 from the inevitable injuries you'll sustain, as well as the unique way in which it, like any action 
 game, inevitably kills you off. In previous Medal of Honor games, you scavenged canteens and health 
 packs in each of the levels, but now, most levels offer no such recourse. Instead, you'll be completely 
 dependent on your squad's corpsman to keep you alive. Basically, you can summon him several times 
 per level to completely restore your health. He'll apply some gauze or give you a little shot of 
 something, and before you know it, you'll be back on your feet, good as new.  

  Recovering from gunshot wounds in this fashion really isn't much more realistic than doing so by 
 walking over a canteen, but it adds an element of tension to the game's battles. Strangely enough, 
 none of your squadmates can actually be killed, but your corpsman may already be preoccupied with 
 tending to one of them when you desperately need his help, so the game encourages you to try to 
 keep your squad safe. However, it doesn't force you to babysit your squad, either. These guys can 
 fend for themselves and will often help you survive some of the more grueling shoot-outs. Also, 
 should you run out of health in Pacific Assault, it's not necessarily the end of you. Your corpsman 
 will sometimes miraculously show up in the nick of time to bring you back from the brink of death. 
 Alternatively, sometimes the last thing you'll see is a Japanese soldier finishing you off, execution-style. 
 Other times you'll just black out to the tune of some old wartime memory.  

  All this stuff is done quite well, though at times, it's a little awkward. For instance, you might 
 get executed by an enemy soldier even when you're right next to squadmates who could have defended 
 you, or, oppositely, the corpsman might magically appear even when you've been completely overwhelmed. 
 But if nothing else, this system is different from what you're probably used to seeing in other 
 shooters -- and it works well enough -- so it's a nice change of pace.  

          Most of the missions take place in dense foliage that provides plenty of cover and camouflage 
 both for you and your enemies.     

  Overall, the campaign is actually quite hard. In later scenarios, you can look forward to frequently 
 getting mowed down by enemy machine gun fire, if not from mounted gun emplacements, then from squadrons 
 of Zeros making your life miserable from the sky. What mitigates the difficulty, much like in most 
 single-player shooters, is the ability to quicksave your progress indiscriminately. Being able 
 to restore your progress from any point is certainly convenient, but it also undercuts some of 
 the suspense. Nevertheless, it's what keeps Pacific Assault from being punishing.  

  Higher difficulty levels, including a "realistic" one that takes away all onscreen indicators (such 
 as your health and ammo indicators, in addition to your weapon crosshairs) , encourage you to revisit 
 the campaign missions. Furthermore, some optional mission objectives and the ability to earn medals 
 for completing these and other significant feats might compel you to come back to the game's several 
 tours of duty, especially since the enemies you'll face in Pacific Assault -- as well as the soldiers 
 you'll always be fighting alongside -- exhibit some fairly impressive artificial intelligence, which 
 results in some flashes of brilliance that offset the occasional AI fluke. Consequently, battles 
 don't tend to play out in a purely scripted fashion. The game does tend to encourage a specific 
 approach to surviving its sometimes difficult firefights, insofar as a direct attack will often 
 get you killed, whereas you'll often find your enemies' flanks conspicuously exposed. Nevertheless, 
 Pacific Assault does a good job of requiring you to play skillfully rather than just making you 
 take a trial-and-error approach until you get it right. Most of the weapons you'll use demand precision, 
 and most of them are also slow to reload; and, unlike in Allied Assault, ammunition can be pretty 
 scarce here, so you'll constantly feel the need to make your every shot count, in addition to using 
 cover and moving while crouched or prone. This is true of the game's multiplayer portion as well. 
     

  Pacific Assault's multiplayer mode includes three game types: free-for-all, team deathmatch, and 
 invader. The former two are conventional and pretty straightforward, while the third one obviously 
 got most of the attention from the game's developer. It's an objective-based game type, much like 
 that of Return to Castle Wolfenstein's multiplayer, and it pits American forces against Japanese 
 forces on eight different maps -- each with its own specific multitiered mission that places either 
 the Axis or the Allies on offense while placing the other side on defense. One side needs to accomplish 
 a series of sequential objectives, such as demolishing some gun emplacements, retrieving some documents, 
 or radioing back to headquarters, while the other side needs to try to prevent all this from happening. 
 An onscreen radar display and other visual indicators help direct you to where the action is at 
 any given moment, and audio cues will also keep you updated on the mission objective. These features 
 greatly help you get your bearings quickly rather than force you to spend a lot of time learning 
 the flow and layout of each map (while possibly becoming a liability to your team) .  

          Pacific Assault's invader multiplayer game type does a good job of giving context to pitched 
 battles that evolve as the attacking side accomplishes objectives.     

  Furthermore, Pacific Assault's multiplayer game browser lets you automatically jump into a match 
 without having to sift through a server list, and it also provides a helpful step-by-step system 
 for setting up your own game. Depending on the server, up to 32 players can have at it in any of 
 the game's rather large, complex maps, but we encountered some mixed results in terms of online 
 performance. We experienced occasional patches of severe lag even on some low-ping servers with 
 few players in them, but we also experienced some perfectly smooth sessions with relatively larger 
 populations of players. As is usually the case with online games, your mileage may vary.  

  At any rate, much like in the single-player portion of the game, the feel of the action online 
 falls a bit short of being perfectly smooth and responsive -- but it's still good. There's a solid 
 combination of close-range, in-your-face shooting (and bayoneting!) to be found in Pacific Assault, 
 along with some long-range sniping and plenty of medium-range action involving rifles. Likewise, 
 the maps each seem to offer a good balance of different environments -- and therefore different tactical 
 opportunities. So as the flow of the battle moves from one objective to the next, you'll naturally 
 need to change your strategy (and you'll need to try to coordinate with your team accordingly) , 
 which makes Pacific Assault's invader mode quite complex and entertaining overall, even if it lacks 
 the drivable vehicles and massive scale of other popular war-themed multiplayer shooters.  

  As mentioned, Pacific Assault does have some rough edges that somewhat detract from the overall 
 experience. For one thing, the game sports some noticeably long loading times (sometimes around 
 a minute or so) going into either the single-player levels or the multiplayer maps. You'll experience 
 these loading times regardless of how fast your system is or the detail settings you've opted to 
 use. Even the process of quick-loading a game during the campaign missions takes a little while. 
 The game has some pretty buggy behavior at times, too. You'll occasionally see both the friendly 
 and enemy AI doing something completely crazy, or maybe you'll see soldiers clipping through solid 
 walls or something to that effect. Also, you'll hear your squadmates utter the same phrases over 
 and over during the course of the campaign, which is irritating. One particularly off-putting type 
 of comment your squadmates will make involves congratulating you on your good aim. They'll compliment 
 you seemingly way too often, and, at times, they'll do so when there's no way anyone could have 
 seen your enemy drop but you. On other occasions, the game will just kill you off seemingly without 
 explanation, so during some of the more intense battles, it can be confusing to tell exactly where 
 the danger's coming from. Finally, the game's flying sequence is a pleasant change of pace, but 
 the first-person shooter controls are pretty clunky for steering an aircraft. You'll be relieved 
 when the mid-air mission finally ends.  

  With all that said, it bears repeating that Pacific Assault really does a great job of creating 
 a believable atmosphere, even if the gameplay itself, as well as your allies' inabilities to die 
 or shut up, isn't realistic. The game's proprietary graphics engine shines on a high-end system, 
 and it features some excellent special effects, including how your vision will blur from all the 
 rattling as you fire a mounted machine gun or how your vision begins to fade when you're near death. 
 Character and weapon models also feature high levels of detail and exhibit mostly very good animation. 
 Additionally, there are a lot of nice touches in the environments. You'll spot some indigenous 
 animals in the rustling trees, and bullets seem to rip into most of the different types of surfaces 
 in the game. Realistic weather effects will also influence battles. For instance, it becomes all 
 the more difficult to spot your foes when there's a thick layer of fog or smoke hanging in the 
 air. There's a good physics model here, too, which is at its most striking in the levels in which 
 you'll be fighting in a riverbed. Here, the corpses of your slain enemies will drift downstream, 
 perhaps to warn the enemy of your forthcoming arrival. But as mentioned, Pacific Assault's visuals 
 do come at a price, because the game's frame rate and loading times can leave something to be desired 
 even on fast machines. Meanwhile, the game's more notable effects simply aren't available on lower-detail 
 settings.  

          If you're down for another war-themed first-person shooter, Pacific Assault is a great 
 choice.     

  The Medal of Honor series has always been known for its exceptionally good audio, and Pacific Assault 
 doesn't disappoint in this regard. The repetition of your allies' chatter is a bit of a shame, 
 but the dialogue itself, including Tommy Conlin's own (you'll actually hear him speak, unlike previous 
 Medal of Honor protagonists) , is delivered well; the authentic Japanese spoken by your enemies 
 is especially good. The weapon effects and explosions constantly heard throughout the game are 
 also convincingly loud and clear, along with subtler notes, like how your footsteps cut through 
 the different types of terrain you'll traverse. And, of course, Pacific Assault features an impressive 
 military orchestra soundtrack befitting a World War II epic, and it kicks in at opportune times 
 during the campaign. In a nice touch, the game's menu system is set within a makeshift allied base, 
 where you'll hear various late '30s and '40s-era radio broadcasts that include news, commercials, 
 and music.  

  There are two different retail versions of Pacific Assault, the more expensive of which shipped 
 earlier on a single DVD-ROM and includes a few documentary-style extras suitable for those interested 
 in learning more about what actually happened when the Americans and Japanese fought in the Pacific 
 more than 60 years ago. Nevertheless, the Medal of Honor series has generally done a good job compromising 
 between historical accuracy and entertaining, nail-biting action, and Pacific Assault continues 
 this tradition. It can be difficult to reconcile how, exactly, such a grim event as World War II 
 could become the context for a fun-filled action game, but it's once again made for an exciting 
 experience in Medal of Honor Pacific Assault.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (151 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: krazyorange
Rating: 4
Date: Feb 2, 2009 2:43 pm PT
Review:  It's about this time in my gaming career I realize that I have played a lot of games. That isn't 
 a bad thing whatsoever, and it provides a solid, impermeable foundation from which I can critically 
 and successfully judge games based on their strong points and failures. Luckily, as a part of my 
 extensive repertoire, I have played my fair share of World War II titles, from the science fiction 
 first person shooter Return to Castle Wolfenstein to the explosive strategy within Company of Heroes. 
 I've invested my patience with squad control in Brothers in Arms, and I've even dabbled with the 
 heinous Mortyr. Pacific Assault is easily one of the worst of the bunch, which is startling given 
 its lineage and pedigree as the premier WWII shooter. 
  
  Loading times. I don't understand them given my limited knowledge of computer programming, and 
 I don't intend to claim I know any possible way to shorten them. That said, when the main menu 
 consumes upwards of thirty seconds to load its "fancy-schmansy" background scene, it's fairly simple 
 to assume the remainder of the game will be plagued with unbearable loading bars. While not as 
 atrocious as Half Life 2's frequent pauses, these are far longer and when the dust has settled 
 and the credits roll, at least thirty entire minutes were wasted, listening to over-dramatic trumpet-intensive 
 tunes and being forced to observe washed-out screenshots parade by while Pacific Assault takes 
 its merry time. 
  
  The groans don't stop when the game loads. Frustratingly, every level commences with a lecture 
 from your commanding officer, during which you cannot move away or brandish your weapon. Bad enough? 
 Unfortunately, when the droning is complete and you are free to progress about the mission, you'd 
 wish you were still listening to such offensive lines as: "Every one of you is going to make it 
 out of here alive, because I don't want to write your parents a letter!" Put bluntly and truthfully, 
 level design is bad. Much as every other sub-par shooter before it, the levels progress a little 
 something like this: Eradicate a group of enemies, walk several hundred paces, shoot another group 
 of enemies, et cetera and so forth. There is little variation, and what sparse amounts there are 
 include brilliant and unique mission objectives as "destroy the remaining five artillery emplacements," 
 or "defend the ridge." A good number of the missions task you with shooting down Zeroes via a variety 
 of automatic emplacements, from a standard .50 cal to a powerful flak cannon. Perhaps I've been 
 too kind, so allow me to clarify: of the eight or nine hours it consumes to assault the Pacific, 
 approximately two are spent shooting down planes. Fun. Even worse, the levels are so linear I felt 
 as if I were playing the game with a noose around my neck; the environments are preposterously 
 and artificially constrained by the design limitations. Ten yards on either side of the requisite 
 path are walls, which impede any desire you might have had to sleuth around behind enemy lines 
 and pick them off from the shrubbery. On the flip side, this means there are no alternative paths 
 to pursue, so every progressive mission is about as straightforward as can be. ... unless, by some 
 happening, you bypass an enemy at the beginning of the area, and upon reaching the conclusion the 
 game states "objective not complete." Surprisingly, this occurred on many occasions, which forced 
 me to trudge back through the empty battlefields waiting for the muzzle flash and gunfire to come 
 my way.
  
  Enemies and allies alike display no semblance of intelligence, contrary to reviews and the game 
 box, which proudly states: "Groundbreaking real-time A. I. lets you direct squad movement, delivering 
 the most authentic and intuitive WWII combat system ever." Ladies and gentleman, this is a farce. 
 There is nothing intelligent about an enemy who will mindlessly charge you with his bayonet, or 
 squadmates who could not strike a human being standing perfectly stagnant five paces dead ahead. 
 Team mates won't attack or kill any foe unless you take the lead, which although there is evidently 
 a "groundbreaking A. I. system," involves running into the thick of the enemy, stabbing as many 
 in the face with a bayonet as possible, and allowing your pals to clean up. It's not for lack of 
 trying: your buddies will fire hundreds of thousands of rounds in the general direction of the 
 bad guys, but will never, ever strike a single one. It's also ironic a metal blade affixed to the 
 tip of a rifle ends up being the most effective means of slaying the enemy, considering how much 
 firepower was present in the war. As previously stated, the most effective (read: the only solution 
 which will not frustrate you to the point of destroying every electronic or easily-flingable object 
 around you) strategy for dispatching the pesky Japanese is to mindlessly sprint towards groups 
 of them and stab them with your bayonet. Even more comedic is that one jab can kill two, even three 
 of them at once, as if there is a six-foot area of impact for a quarter-inch-wide steel edge. The 
 aforementioned squad control is likewise a caricature, since any command is either disregarded 
 or directly disobeyed. 
  
  It is extremely difficult to dislike such a high-profile game, since those who read this review 
 will assume I didn't complete the game, was in a foul state of mind whilst playing, or generally 
 have no idea what I'm talking about. Sadly, this is not the case. I did play through Pacific Assault 
 in its entirety, which was a task meant for monoliths; every second after every painful second 
 my inner dialogue screamed: why must I continue mercilessly massacring mindless mobs of Japanese! 
 I cannot honestly answer such a question -perhaps for honor, perhaps from morbid curiosity to discover 
 how bad the next level would be over its predecessor. The creative elements, including a a mission 
 which tasks you to pilot an aircraft and bomb a fleet, are executed so poorly it boggles my mind 
 how such a game garnered so many positive reviews. 
  
  For all intents and purposes, and to lend some credence to what could be viewed as an inflated 
 score, there is a very, very small amount of redeemable intrigues within the game. For one, you 
 stab Japanese marines in the face instead of Nazis, which is a delightful change of pace. Secondly, 
 the game does attempt novelties (but the horror with which they are implemented sort of negates 
 any bonus points) . And thirdly, did I mention stabbing lots and lots of adversaries in the face? 
 Really, it's a first person shooter, so you can't really go wrong there: bottom line, you get to 
 kill people. Let's be honest, who doesn't want to do that. (Please, for the sake of the law, answer 
 no.) For me, the frustrations, limitations, and failure of feature execution is too much to overcome. 
 Alas, I seem to be in the minority. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Perth2008
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 16, 2009 10:26 pm PT
Review:  What I particularly liked about this entry in the MOH series is that it feels historically more 
 accurate than any of its predessors mainly because your alter ego (Pt Conlon) is involved in plausible 
 missions (with one very notable exception) . 
  
  The other MOH games have, in my opinion, too much in the way of "behind the lines/SOE" type missions 
 ... when considering how your hero in those games does amazing (James Bond like) things behind 
 the lines in Norway, blowing up submarines, infiltrating German battleships, etc and THEN getting 
 posted back to his regular unit ... one does wonder.
  
  In MOHPA we do get to experience the beach landings, claustrophobic jungle warfare, banzai charges, 
 tunnel complexes, etc that give a good feel for the Pacific war. Sadly, but fortunately only once, 
 MOHPA does depart from this "realism" during the "Flyboys" mission ... frankly it seems an unneccessary 
 aside from the main thrust of the game ... I would rather have had another "real" mission than 
 fly around in a torpedo bomber tring to sink Japanese ships ...
  
  I particularly enjoyed the missions traversing swamps and night firefights ... it was reminiscent 
 of Men of Valor (MOV, set in Vietnam) which I was playing concurrently. Both these games evoke 
 the jungles very well.
  
  Graphically MOHPA is on par with the COD series games, the other MOH games seemed lacking in that 
 department. Like all games there were a few glitches along the way but nothing fatal or unrecoverable 
 given the many opportunities to save the game. Enemy AI is reasonable and (unlike MOV) your AI 
 squadmates actually do assist you with providing cover and only occassionaly end up blocking your 
 intended movements or line of fire. I did not really use the squad commands so it's difficult to 
 say whether MOHPA is more a tactical shooter ... but it was helpful at times in giving some direction 
 to your squadmates.
  
  OVERALL: Highly recommended ... it can be found in many retail stores in Australia in the $9.95-$19.95 
 price range.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hami619
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 2, 2008 8:51 am PT
Review:  THE STORY IS AMAZING YOU ARE TOMMY THE LITTLE ROOKIE IN THE WAR, COOL WEAPONS, HIGHLY ADICTIVE 
 SHOOTER WOW, ITS THE REAL MEDAL OF HONOR A A A A AA A AA A A AA A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A AA 
 A AA A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A 
 A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A AA A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A 
 A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A AA A A A A A A A A A AA A A A A A AA A A A 
 A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A AA A A A A A A A AA A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A 
 A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A AA A AA A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A 
 A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A AA A A A A A A 
 A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A AA A 
 A A A A A A A A AA A A A A A AA A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A AA A A A A A 
 A A AA A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lindseyiluvyou
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 27, 2008 1:59 pm PT
Review:  Dude this game is amazing although very hard in Guadacanal and Tarawa Atoll and very hard to spot 
 when they mix in with the enviroment its still probably the best japanese-american WW2 game out 
 there you could bet this game os the best when it comes to medal of honor series a challenging 
 game but worth it as the story bout Pearl Harbor is great and i will love this game despite never 
 being alive for pearl harbor im only 14 but still one of the best recreations of WW2 Japanese American 
 battles. however if your looking for an easy ww2 game dont buy this one because other than Makin 
 atoll and pearl harbor there is nothing easy bout this game. if your looking for a cool medal of 
 honor game probably the only cool one in the whole entire series is pacific assault japanese all 
 over the place and one of the best things is that you get 4 health packs and you press H and the 
 medic comes over and heals you plus dont forget about a cool recreation of boot camp this is in 
 FACT THE BEST MOH GAME OUT THERE 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SYdoggXxX
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 10, 2008 10:22 am PT
Review:  Medal of Honor Pacific Assault is the direct PC sequel to the wildly successful and very influential, 
 Medal of Honor Allied Assault. MoHAA was an incredibly well crafted shooter that successfully combined 
 a realistic setting with forgiving arcade style gameplay. With such a strong predecessor, the question 
 is whether Pacific Assault lives up to the pedigree? The answer is for the most part, yes. Pacific 
 Assault has its fair share of issues (long loading times, occasionally buggy sequences, repetitive 
 levels, punishing difficulty) , but for the most part they're easily cast aside by some legitimately 
 thrilling sequences, great narrative, and top notch presentation.
  
  Pacific Assault stands out for taking the WWII focus away from Europe, and on to the Pacific, or 
 more specifically, Japan. Though the game features several different settings such as a beach landing 
 reminiscent of Normandy, a crazy airstrip assault, a flying section, and a recreation of the Pearl 
 Harbor attack, the vast majority of the game takes place in jungle settings, interrupted by continuous 
 assaults on local villages. While these sections feature some intense and entertaining action, 
 they can get very repetitive, not just because they all look awfully identical, but because it's 
 the same rinse and repeat formula over and over again. More variety during the middle chapters 
 would've been very welcome. This is greatly highlighted by the way the game really picks up in 
 the final chapters, were there's more variety in between levels.
  
  Another area were Pacific Assault could've used more tuning is in the difficulty. While the game 
 overall isn't exceptionally hard, there are a few sections that will really beat the daylights 
 out of you. Perhaps the biggest problem with these parts is that the game doesn't do a good job 
 at telling what you're doing wrong. For instance, one section during the Henderson airstrip assault 
 has you gunning down Japanese bombers attempting to take out your hangars. While naturally one 
 would be inclined to shoot any plane in sight, there's a very specific group of bombers that are 
 the ones you have to take out since they're the only ones who actually pose a threat. Fail to take 
 down those specific bombers and your hangars get destroyed and it's game over for you. Considering 
 I spent well over 20 minutes in a section that could've been done in a minute or two, it would've 
 been really helpful if one of my squad mates had given me a little heads up about what exactly 
 had to be done. It's moments of frustration like this one (and several others, such as the Flyboys 
 mission, which is hampered by poor controls) that can make the game come crashing to a halt.
  
  Fortunately, the action and narrative are exciting and compelling enough to motivate you to 
 drag yourself through those sections. The core gameplay is excellent, though it has a few issues, 
 which are more noticeable during the early stages. Chief among these issues is the fact that for 
 the first third of the game you're given nothing but craptacular weapons. SMGs with short clips 
 and rifles with atrocious reloading are the main culprits for you dying a lot in the first chapters. 
 It's also worth noting that your enemies can take a bit too much damage. On many occasions I found 
 myself scoring a hit from just a few feet away and yet they were still able to charge at me in 
 a frenzy. However once you get a hold of better weapons, mowing down your enemies becomes much 
 easier and a hell of a lot more satisfying. Particularly impressive is the inclusion of a shotgun 
 in the game. As far as I'm concerned, I'd never seen a WWII game with a shotgun, and just like 
 in most games, there ain't nothing like a boomstick.
  
  One really unique feature of Pacific Assault is the healing system. If you find more than 5 health 
 packs in this game, consider yourself lucky. Instead of using healthpacks, you heal your wounds 
 by relying on your fellow corpsman, who you can call with the touch a button a certain amount of 
 times (the number varies with the difficulty you choose) per level to fully heal you up. While 
 this system has its issues, it's a very nice change of pace. The main problem obviously is that 
 if you induce too much damage early on, you'll probably use up all of your corpsman kits way before 
 the level is over, forcing to play the rest of the level on your tiptoes. On the other side, while 
 not entirely realistic, this system certainly adds to the immersion. Having to actually pull out 
 of the action while you're getting healed up, forces you to think when and where to call up your 
 corpsman (who will remain vulnerable while healing you) . Also, the game features a very nifty death 
 sequence, where you'll never instantly die but rather get knocked down, while your vision and hearing 
 gets very distorted. Should your corpsman reach you in time, you'll get revived, but there's always 
 a chance some Jap will deliver a killing blow while you're writhing in pain. This verge of death 
 moments are very well done.
  
  The campaign in Pacific Assault features plenty of memorable moments and is told with a lot of 
 style. Unlike in other war games, your squad (at least the core members) will remain the same all 
 the way through to the end. While none of them stand out in particular, there's a legitimate sense 
 of bonding between Tommy (the soldier you're playing as) and his squad mates. This is partly due 
 to Tommy's narration prior to every mission, where he acknolewdges his mates as well as recollect 
 prior events. One particularly memorable section takes place in the Flyboys chapter, where your 
 actions will determine whether one of your buddies lives or dies. This is actually one of many 
 "Hero Moments", which are optional objectives that are rewarded by the game with medals and the 
 ability to "relive" those moments. The completion of these objectives has a direct impact on the 
 story, such as the example previously mentioned. While it may not sound like much, it's the kind 
 of thing that really makes you feel much more involved in the game.
  
  The presentation of the game is top notch. Similar to Allied Assault, the game's menu isn't your 
 conventional static menu, but rather a scene depicting a makeshift campament, where contemporary 
 radio (contemporary to WWII that is) plays in the background, consisting of war news (typically 
 related to the section you're in) , commercials, special reports, and music. Not only does the radio 
 sound totally legit, it actually makes navigating through the menus a whole lot of fun. The game's 
 slick presentation carries on with the visuals and sound. While the visuals were never cutting 
 edge, they feature plenty of detail, rendering believable environments, regardless of the setting. 
 The sound is handled even better. The Japanese soldiers actually speak Japanese (and sound menacing 
 while doing so) , while weapons, explosions, and all other effects sound like the real deal. In 
 sections like the Tarawa landing, it all adds up to sensorial bliss.
  
  In the end, Pacific Assault manages to overcome its flaws and deliver another memorable WWII outing. 
 The Pacific theater adds variety, while the core gameplay retains most of the magic from Allied 
 Assault. While not as polished as Allied Assault, Medal of Honor Pacific Assault is a thrilling 
 experience that shouldn't be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rumian
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 26, 2008 9:30 am PT
Review:  You step into the army boots on Tommy Conlin as he is at the brink of Boot Camp. He immediately 
 gains his companions and future squad mates while at his stay in San Diego. You'll go through plenty 
 of obstacles and necessary training in Boot Camp, as well as the component we all love: the firing 
 range.
  
  While you are Tommy, you'll fight through the islands of Makin, Guadalcanal, and Tarawa, and even 
 attempt to survive the deadly attacks on Pearl Harbor. The plot enrolls beautifully and helps you 
 sit through the sometimes long cutscenes without wiggling in your chair. 
  
  Here are the good details: it has an incredible plot, solid campaign, and decent multiplayer. It 
 also has a pretty good interactive main menu, too. (yeah, the main menu is one of the high points 
 for the Medal of Honor series)
  
  Here are the few bad ones: It lags a lot when you first jack in to the Pacific Assault engine, 
 but the more you play it, the less and less it lags, and soon it won't be lagging at all. There 
 are a few bugs that are nothing to overreact about.
  
  My recommendation: if you like kicking it old school and laying back to some lower-gen PC games 
 than those that are out on the GameStop shelf, than this is definitely worth to try out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LazyGamer_24
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 25, 2008 7:17 pm PT
Review:  Medal of Honor Pacific now takes the fight to Japan. You play as a U. S. Marine named Tommy as well 
 with his buddies. The game will take you about 10 hours or so to complete as you fight from Pearl 
 Harbor to the battle of Tarawa Atoll. In the game you do a variety of missions like destroy a radio 
 tower, oil refinery, and other missions. The AI in the game is really smart because they'll use 
 cover and sometimes might lunge at you with a bayonet. But sometimes it can be really annoying. 
 They might sometimes pop out of nowhere and start shooting and stabbing you. There are a lot of 
 different weapons in the game like submachine guns, rifle, pistols, etc. The ammunition is scarce 
 though so you're going to have to make every shot count. If there is an injured soldier you can 
 pick him up and drop him next to the medic and he will heal him, or if you are injured you must 
 bandage yourself and call the medic for help. You can give you squad mates simple commands and 
 they will try to follow your order. The graphics a pretty good in the game with lush vegetation 
 and the designs of soldiers The sound is alright for the gunfire, but when vehicles blow up there's 
 no noise. The frame rate can be really annoying because it might slow down the action. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hollow_ichigo7
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 17, 2008 4:33 am PT
Review:  The first Medal of Honor I've played. 
  
  Medal of Honor: Pacific Assault, from what I've seen, is one of the better MOHs to come around 
 after Frontline. And it has a great story to it as well, which is why I preferred it to Airborne. 
 
  
  As Pvt. Thomas Conlin, you'll fight through major battles in WWII, mostly in the Pacific Theatre, 
 along with your three buddies Willy, Jimmy, and Frank. Willy's an Ace with a rifle, and Jimmy's 
 a great medic, and Frank is a natural leader.
  
  Throughout the game you'll spend most of your time clearing out encampments, clearing beaches and 
 some flying too. it's full of action and has a realistic system in which a medic can heal you if 
 you are low on health. It also gives you a large arsenal of weapons, mainly Japanese, and it moves 
 away from the normal European theatre of WWII. Along with great graphics, this game is value for 
 money. 
  
  However, this game is not without flaws.
  
  Some parts of the game could be done without, such as the flying, which was very irritating. Another 
 thing is that sometimes the game glitches and even you've done all your objectives, sometimes, 
 for example, a door might not open, thus rendering you unable to complete your mission and forcing 
 you to reload the checkpoint, and how sometimes your teammates guns can go through their head.
 
  
  
  Other than that, it's a mediocre game. Rent it first. Or play a demo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kuyt19
Rating: 9
Date: May 2, 2008 2:42 pm PT
Review:  This is the best WW2 game i have ever experienced. The story, gameplay, graphics, AI and all the 
 other elements seem to click. Having played Allied Assault beforehand, i expected no less than 
 the quality of AA from the developers and they certainly didn't disappoint. To be honest, it blew 
 me away. Having the 40s radio play on the Main Menu felt authentic. The story, as seen from the 
 eyes of the main character, Tommy Conlin, and narrated by him as well was touching. It truly gave 
 you the feeling of what it's like for a soldier putting his life on the line of duty for his country, 
 rather than just a plain run-n-gun. Every firefight with the enemy was fun, though the constant 
 chatter from your friends became annoying after a while. One of the most interesting features of 
 the game was the health restoration. Instead of just med-kits, you have to call a medic to heal 
 you up ( though med-kits were still used here and there) . This system felt realistic and original. 
 The other interesting aspect of the game was the way your vision blurs and your hearing is impaired. 
 Then you get all sorts of voices in your head as you gradually pass out. If you're lucky, you get 
 to see an enemy come up to you and finish you off with a single shot or by driving a blade through 
 you. The graphics were nice and the special effects looked good, especially during the Pearl Harbor 
 attack. And the training level was fun too ( while on the target shooting practice, try shooting 
 at your Training Officer and see what happens) . Overall, the game felt awesome, though there are 
 a few minor glitches here and there, but great nonetheless. I highly recommend this game if you 
 have the balls to trade your BFGs or MP5s for a WW2 Thompson. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thenewau25
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 13, 2008 12:54 pm PT
Review:  pacific asault is far better than cod2, why first of all ai misses and takes times to shoot here 
 is you enable the pop up facts youll see messages from history facts and the developers work, eg 
 we decide to make the japanese machineguns to hold double amount of ammunation in advance of gameplay 
 unlike cod series you dont instupidly kill HUNDRENDS of respawning enemies but there is an expectable 
 amount of enemies in the enemy bases? well its pacific jungle like far cry and if you shoot someone 
 with a rifle to the chest he will 90% DIE unnlike cod enemies are not super humans and do get killed 
 dont stand up again unlike cod!
  
  graphs well back then they were great but if you install moh airborne and the newer ageia physx 
 engines then youll see some pretty cool shaders in a model 3 sjader vga card and becuase thye use 
 the same engine physics will be enabled also if you throw a grenade in a hut it will blow up in 
 pieces like crysis, hmm feel a litle threatend? japs face look 90% like crysis, unlike most games 
 pacific assault has an amazing story and not a nazi killing game the whole thing has a meaning, 
 and a training and in the beggining youll get some heroe moments and won use a gun BUT youll blow 
 up jap planes from anti air turrents in a us destroyer youll evn fly a plane and there be dog fight 
 moments like perl habor ! 
  
  Now on to the gameplay in the jungle which is prettty cool and here the designers explain the longer 
 an enemy aims at you the more acurate the shot will be if he keeps shooting he wil missing! your 
 squadmates are pretty cool and there are all solid characters and the story is pretty cool too 
 you can also give them orders unlike cod and use tactics like suppressing fire but i prefer using 
 the shotgun, the music in the game is propably one of the best i ever heard and weapons sounds 
 are awesome all recorded in a studio also tarawa missions are amazing far better than cod and unlikedcod 
 when you get shoted the screen doenst turn red there also ridge defending sequences and hero moments 
 a lot of action and medals you ll get for bonus objectives and diffirent benefits eg you found 
 a map some levels later you get the oportunity to flank from a secret path the designers explain 
 it took weeks to make the scene perfect and animate it correctly it sound silly but we have too ( 
 these guys are serious) and the enemies you face are depending in number with those you killed 
 in the previous, so i got otsay it story is amazing and this is the best wwii game i ever played! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CoD_killeru
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 13, 2008 9:14 am PT
Review:  This game is the most addictive game i've ever played. With the Hidden objectives and the Hero 
 Moments objectives, the game is very good, because you must find out what those objectives are. 
 For the beginners I think is really hard to find those objectives, but when you get on a high level 
 of playing it will be very easy. I don't like very much how the grenades are thrown.
  The training is very very good (if you do not make what the instructor says you will play from 
 the last save) .
  Pearl Harbour is the easiest mission in the game, but don't get to confident.
  Makin Atoll is 
 the firt serious mission, and you will have to kill some Japs.
  The next mission, Guadalcanal, is the longest and exciting mission in the entire game. Here you 
 have to find more hidden objectives, and to kill most Japs (the most in the all game) . In the end 
 of the mission you will have to 'drive' a plane and land safely aboard USS Independence (this will 
 be made automatically) .
  The last mission, Tarawa, is the Marines D-Day. You will need some skills to do this.
  But when 
 you will finish you will see the game merits a high score.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xX-GamerBot-Xx
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 15, 2008 9:44 pm PT
Review:  Medal of Honor Pacific now takes the fight to Japan. You play as a U. S. Marine named Tommy as well 
 with his buddies. The game will take you about 10 hours or so to complete as you fight from Pearl 
 Harbor to the battle of Tarawa Atoll. In the game you do a variety of missions like destroy a radio 
 tower, oil refinery, and other missions. The AI in the game is really smart because they'll use 
 cover and sometimes might lunge at you with a bayonet. But sometimes it can be really annoying. 
 They might sometimes pop out of nowhere and start shooting and stabbing you. There are a lot of 
 different weapons in the game like submachine guns, rifle, pistols, etc. The ammunition is scarce 
 though so you're going to have to make every shot count. If there is an injured soldier you can 
 pick him up and drop him next to the medic and he will heal him, or if you are injured you must 
 bandage yourself and call the medic for help. You can give you squad mates simple commands and 
 they will try to follow your order. The graphics a pretty good in the game with lush vegetation 
 and the designs of soldiers The sound is alright for the gunfire, but when vehicles blow up there's 
 no noise. The frame rate can be really annoying because it might slow down the action.
  
  Multi player can support up to 32 players and can be quite fun. There are 3 modes which are deathmatch, 
 team deathmatch, and a new one called invader where you must do a certain objective like get a 
 document while the other team must defend it.
  
  Overall the game is pretty good, it's not a must have, but if you are a MOH fan then you might 
 want to get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sand-which
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 10, 2008 11:15 am PT
Review:  *One Of The Best Game I ever played
  
  *It Makes u fell that ur really in war
  
  *Good Team Act
  
  *Good Graphic
  
  *Based On True Events
  
  *Perfect Game Play
  
 
  *Difficulty Just Right
  
  Medal of Honor: Pacific Assault is the 7th installment of the Medal of Honor series. It was developed 
 by EA Games for the PC. This edition puts the player in the role of Pvt. Thomas Conlin, a U. S. 
 Marine in the Pacific Theater of Operations in World War II. It also uses the Havok physics engine. 
 Levels include the Attack on Pearl Harbor, the Makin Island raid, the Guadalcanal Campaign, and 
 the Battle of Tarawa. The game is primarily a First-Person Shooter, with the exception of one level 
 in which the player flies a SBD Dauntless in the middle of a dog fight. The game's timeline is 
 set in the earlier stages of the war beginning with Boot Camp and pre-December 7th Pearl Harbor 
 (1940-1941) , and ending with the Battle of Tarawa (1943) .
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: monkeytoes61
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 6, 2008 8:26 pm PT
Review:  Medal of Honor Pacific Assault is a FPS for the PC. You play as Tommy Conlin, a marine fighting 
 in the Pacific Theater of World War Two. Throughout the game you will be fighting in three different 
 areas. These are Makin Atoll, Guadalcanal, and Tarawa Atoll. There is also a short Pearl Harbor 
 level. You will use many authentic WW2 weapons, both American and Japanese. Speaking of the Japanese, 
 they will be your enemy in this game. They actually fight somewhat like the Japanese did in the 
 war. They hunt in groups, set up ambushes and attack with banzai charges. They are going to be 
 a tough enemy, even on the default difficulty. Medal of Honor takes the series in some new directions. 
 For instance, you can now swap weapons with ones you find on the ground, whereas in previous games 
 you were stuck with the weapons you started with. Another example is the way to heal. In previous 
 games you picked up health canteens and packs. In Pacific Assault, you call for your corpsman to 
 heal you. Also, if you die, you still have a chance. If your corpsman gets to you fast enough, 
 he can revive you. However, your corpsman can only heal you four times in a level, so he isn't 
 an infinite source of healing. Everything in this game works very well and the game plays very 
 smooth. There are a couple of issues with the game though. If you want to get in a quick play session, 
 don't count on it. There are ridiculously long load times, even on a fast system. Another problem 
 is the insane difficulty, I don't mind hard games, but even the default setting will give you trouble. 
 The graphics in this game are very nice, considering you have a powerful enough computer. The sound 
 is good as well, all the weapons sound and feel just right. So, here's another successful Medal 
 of Honor game that you are sure to enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zakld
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 12, 2007 4:59 pm PT
Review:  Well, I'm writing this and it's been quite a while after I've played it. To be perfectly honest, 
 so many good games have been made on this topic that I've mixed them all up and don't know which 
 one this is. These games are all linear but still very well done and I couldp lay them no matter 
 how many of them they make. 
  
  So, I won't be specific and I will mark / rank all of the games on of this genre with the same 
 mark of 9.0 as I think they are all incredible but it is really hard to have a game worth 10 on 
 this usbject matter as long as they are linear. 
  
  The only game that will get 9.5 will be Brother in Arms: Earned in Blood 
  
  
  
  My marking 
 system is as follows:
  
  10 - Absolute Legend
  9 - Must Be Played
  8 - Excellent and Worth Your Time
  7 - Worth playing if you have nothing else to play
  6 - 
 worh playing if you have nothing to play and are incredbly bored and have not got absolutely anything 
 else to do. (Barely playable/enjoyable) . 
  
  I don't give marks 1-5 as if a game starts sucking I don't finish it, so I only review the games 
 that are barely playable (6) to the absolutely amazingly incredible ones (10)
  
  I will also probably keep my reviews short as I don't like discovering too much about the gameplay. 
 I only like to give my quick opinion and get on with life.
  
  Best Wishes to everyone
  
  Zak 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GunnyNoland
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 6, 2007 5:55 pm PT
Review:  This is the most best World War Two fps ive ever played in my life! Number 1) Good graphics for 
 reloading, enviorments, weapons, characters, and videos. 2) Highly addictive keeps you on the edge 
 at end of each mission, great AI, great sounds, awesome voices. 3) Just the game it self! It is 
 a very good game! And this is one of the two MOH games for the pacific the other is MOH: Rising 
 Sund which is goo also. The best weapon in the game which has best graphics, fire power, good reloading, 
 and bayonet is the M1 Garand. The cheat to spawn it is:: spawn weapons/us_garand. hag that is the 
 cheat to get. The best campaign in the game is the last one when you go to Tarawa Atoll. On the 
 first mission when you hit the beach a man runs on it with a flamethrower and then all of a sudden 
 a jap runs around him and while the flamethrowers starts firing he explodes! The graphics are absolutely 
 amazing on the explosins. At the Pearl Harbor campaign the shipers are unmerciffuly beatiful! This 
 game is All In all, every World War Two person who likes the pacific campaing should give this 
 game a try especially people who havnt tried games like this before, also the game is kinda educational. 
 Lastly the only bad is the load times. Be patient it will take a sec to load but as i said game 
 is All In All. Give it a try if you like world war two fps. very good game 100/100 Also M1 carbine 
 is a very good weapon also. It also has good reloading graphics and so does the springfield without 
 scope so enjoy this game. They sell it at target, wal mart. meijer, best buy, anywhere you can 
 buy games pretty much so have fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lord_tanner
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 12, 2007 4:18 pm PT
Review:  One of the best series of Fps of all times, who make a standard for this fun genre, with the fantastic 
 and maybe best WW II game ever,, (with the great CoW 2) 
  
  well this game is a change of view in the series, because you dont kill germans here,, no, you 
 kill japansee (FUNN =) ) the story is fine, and the moves is ok, have a really nice graphics and 
 scenarios, 
  
  
  is a fun game for fans of the series, and WW II nerds, you can enjoy this game is great
  
  
 
  Let the force be with you young padawan 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 100starz
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 4, 2007 5:55 am PT
Review:  Great game, better then MOHAA and this time you get to WTFPWN japan.
  Eh, by disastrous i mean the fields are battle worn!
  
  Great gameplay. the weapons are very 
 balanced, it all depends on your preference. semi auto, bolt action, full auto, whatever! Great MP!
 
  But good lord... THOSE LOADING TIMES ARE INSANE!
  The single player campaign is also very very nice! nice long and challenging,, you can call for 
 a medic and such.
  
  Graphics wise, its a system hog with style. Great graphics. The blood gives good realism effect. 
 Its quite nice even at 800x600 (i am 1280x1040) it owns hard like hax!
  Theres rag doll too
  
  So... JUST GET IT!
  At wall mart with the ea war fare pack. 8 dollars for 5 games babeh! 
 GET IT NOW!
  
  pwnz
  10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: with_teeth26
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 26, 2007 2:47 pm PT
Review:  I inherited this game from my brother who gave up playing it on his crappy system. score. I had 
 high expextations for this game, as i am a fan of the moh series. i was pleasently suprised. This 
 game is great. sure it has a few bugs (apparently, although i've never noticed any.) But it has 
 such an authentic feeling around it. I'd have to say this game ties with Call of Duty 2 as my favorite 
 WWII game ever. Aiborne was fun, but way to short. Frontline was ok. This is one of the few ww2 
 games out there with real character developement. you get to know your squad at the beggining, 
 and when one of them is injured, you really feel the need to help them. For 2004, the graphics 
 are pretty damn good. the jungles are even better then farcry, in my opinion. You can use bayonets 
 on many of the rifles, and the health system is original and really cool. when you get down to 
 low health, you call over the medic, who will lie you down on the ground, inject you with morphine, 
 then bandage the wound. sometimes he even barfs. He'll usually be able to do this about 3-5 times 
 in a level, depending on difficulty setting and the particular level that you are playing. The 
 difficulty is absolutely perfect in my opinion. The length is good, and the fact that you can give 
 squad orders if you want is really cool as well. This is just such a great game is so many ways. 
 i urge anyone who has heard bad things about it to go get it, because whetever you heard is wrong! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agordplayer
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 24, 2007 11:32 am PT
Review:  This is a very good Historic First Person Shooter game. The graphics is not too bad. It could be 
 better. Great Game. War games are not my favorite but this one will do for me. Call of Duty is 
 a good game. It is better than this one. But whoever made this game did a great job. Some missions 
 in this game were very hard me. I own Medal of Honor Allied Assault and this. I hope that you liked 
 this review. Historic games are good. Like King Kong. It has a good story to it. War games are 
 very hard for me on all systems. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamingBoy2009
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 15, 2007 12:31 pm PT
Review:  Medal of Honor: Pacific Assault is a WW2 game that takes place in the Pacific. Its nice to see 
 a WW2 game that focuses on the Japanese instead of the Germans in war-torn Europe for a change. 
 In Pacific Assault, you play as a marine named Tom Conlin. As Conlin, you play through over a dozen 
 missions during the Pacific war.
  
  Pacific Assault is pretty immersive. The scale of the Pearl Harbor mission is huge, with dozens 
 of planes attacking and dozens of ships exploding. The chaos of Pearl Harbor is quite a site to 
 behold. Most of the missions take place on island jungles. Jungle warfare is really realistic in 
 this game. The enemy can pop out of nowhere and a long firefight may happen. What is really impressive 
 is on the Guadalcanal level. There is a time were you are being bombed and you look up and you 
 see dozens of high-level bombers flying over your head whle at the same time, Japanese zeros will 
 come down and try to strafe you.
  
  The graphics are impressive. There is a lot of graphical detail in the characters, levels, and 
 the weapons. Gameplay is also great. The A. I. acts just like the Japanese from WW2. They will sometimes 
 go in for a banzai charge and you have to look out for that. One good thing about this game is 
 that if you are shot and out of health, it does not neccesarliy mean the end of everything. You 
 can call for a medic and he can come over and save you. Pacific Assault also features quite an 
 amount of arms that you can use that you usually wont find in most other WW2 games. Its neat that 
 you can use the Japanese weapons which is a big break from the German weapons. No MP40s or Kar98 
 rifles here. There is also quite an amount of American weapons that you dont see in other WW2 games. 
 Like the original tommy gun with the drum clip or the Colt. 45 revolver.
  
  There are down sides to this game though. Sometimes a soldier will talk but you dont see his mouth 
 move. Glitches may happen like you might see a Japanese soldier walk in mid-air above the ground. 
 Some sounds are bad, some sub-machine guns sound like wood constantly clanking together. But Pacific 
 Assaults weakness comes when you do the air mission. I believe the air mission was unneccesary. 
 The ground looks horrible and the controls for the plane are terrible. Sure there are over a dozen 
 missions but some of them take place on the same island. There are only 4 areas to play those missions: 
 Pearl Harbor, Makin Atoll, Guadalcanal, and Tarawa. Pacific Assault can also be difficult on some 
 players.
  
  The online is pretty fun. You know that your fighting humans and not A. I. in the jungle.
  
 
  Overall, its a great game. It is the most enjoyable MOH game so far. Even the newer MOH games 
 are not as enjoyable. I highly recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpeedMan72
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 11, 2007 5:50 pm PT
Review:  when i played mohaa i was like this is awesome!! but that was my 1st moh game.
  so the other day i saw this game at best buy and its $10 so im like cool looks kinda like mohaa 
 and fighting germans all the time gets boring, anyways its a really good game.
  theres some awesome new things about mohpa.
  1. when u get incapasateted the coreman can come 
 bring you back, witch is more real and cool.
  2. beyanets are sweet, just stabing japs is awesome (not in real life lol) .
  3. awesome new graphics 
 and phisics.
  4. great a. i. (well so did mohaa but pa is better) .
  
  the online multiplayer from mohaa is just about the same here just new weapons and maps, u still 
 have dm, tdm and objetive game types.
  but its still a awesome and really addictive game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yskchaitanya
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 10, 2007 12:31 am PT
Review:  Absolutely great is what i uttered after the game was over.
  great visuals when i tcomes to facial features, etc... but these graphics dont extend to everything 
 around you.
  good blast effects, fog and blood effects as well
  most importantly, its the music which draws you in to the game and makes you feel all patriotic 
 and what not!!!
  voice acting must be mentioned as it does make you feel that your team is there by your side!!!
 
  BUT, its not a flawless game ... lots of flickering textures in the later part of the game and the 
 japanese soldiers... well they look so zombie like and their movements make you laugh!!!
  lack of any sort of aa results in jagged curves... but youll get used to it when u get immersed 
 into the game after a few levels... again thanks to the music...
  Also its definetely not a RUN AND GUN and players will have to be extremely patient in order to 
 get past some machine guns without losing health...
  health is another aspect of this game which is very interesting but sometimes can be a pain... thanks 
 to ur doc who can patch you up only a limited number of times but an unlimited number of times 
 the rest of the team!!!
  sometimes he just doesnt hear you...???
  great game but lack of proper AA makes you slap yourself and realise that its still a game and 
 that your not in the pacific...
  like i said ... its an amazing experience... but doesnt competely give you the overall sigh of satisfaction 
 when you finish it!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Corchosky
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 11, 2007 12:00 pm PT
Review:  This games shows a very interesting phase, just by adding a corpsman within the platoon. It's pretty 
 nice to finally play a game where you just have a little chance of surviving in a kind of real 
 way of doing it. Besides, just to know that you can be a hero, even though it's a video game, it's 
 kind of nice.
  The opportunity to give your fellow soldiers orders increases the appeal of the game, because it 
 requires a lot more from the player, because you have to give the right order at the right time, 
 so nobody gets killed, specially you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Runer1944
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 12, 2007 3:48 am PT
Review:  Playing this game on Realistic was damn hard, but after completeing it, u get a big shiny medal 
 and you all the time spent playing was time well spent. Unlike other ww2 fps games, MOHPA puts 
 u in a cinematic perspective of the playable (main) character, Thomas Conlin where u will actually 
 be able to see his face and hear the voice of the character you're seeing through the eyes of. 
 Like a long interesting war film, this game also introduces 3 other characters who you will fight 
 along side and are the buddies u went to boot camp with. These guys will obey the 4 squad commands 
 you are able to give through out most of the game during skirmishes with enemy forces. Your buddies 
 each have a personality of their own, unlike other games, where u tend to think all of ur teammates 
 are of the same skill and lack any human like emotions, actions, instincts, which can bring frustation 
 as they often get killed and pile up one after the otherunder enemy gun fire. Not in MOHPA, ur 
 Buddies are basically invincible although they can get wounded, and will take up the time of ur 
 medic, who u can also call to heal u, if in a near death situation. One feature, which was often 
 rare and new in 2004 (when this game came out) is the Havok Physics Engine, which really does give 
 the game that realistic touch, as u see enemy soldiers get blown away by grenades or as u knock 
 down Outpost towers made of bamboo using the Melee Attack, killing the occupant on guard duty. 
 One problem with this game is that its filled with 'bugs' , where at times u will see non responsive 
 enemy soldiers, as u fire on them, and as youre about to die, an enemy soldier who runs towards 
 u to execute you seems invisible to ur squad mates. However, this can easily be ignored as u get 
 use to seeing the same problem.
  
  Medal of Honor Pacific Assault is as good and is even better than many recent FPS games, making 
 it a MUST BUY!
  
  This game will not disappoint! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DodgeDuty
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 4, 2007 5:45 pm PT
Review:  Medal of Honor is an outstanding game. Finally you can look down the scopes with any weapon. Single 
 Player is long, and took me about two weeks, or 20 hours. The graphics have been ramped up and 
 the sound is louder, and feels more realistic. The battles are close combat, and don't require smoke 
 grenades that often, since MoHAA needed smoke grenades once in a while when there were machine 
 guns. Now a good old grenade can be thrown far enough to destroy the guy manning it. Seems though 
 snipers are amazingly accurate again especially one level. This time your AI can take out a few 
 guys, because MoH expansions AI was pathetic. Now your squad has a medic which can heal you if 
 you go down into a slow mo injured mode seen in Call of Duty. It may sound easier to have a medic 
 with 6 medic kits, but the the enemy AI is even smarter. When you go down, all the enemy soldiers 
 will bonzi charge at you. It may not be realistic, but it makes it hard. and will try to flank 
 was in a while, or call a bonzi charge because now you fight the Japanese. All the levels are in 
 the rain forest, until the end when you fight at an airfield and fly a plane.
  Multiplayer isn't changed much, and plays the same. It has always been strange that smoke grenades 
 are in multiplayer but not single player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RSF_Valkyrie
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 27, 2007 1:19 am PT
Review:  I've had a hard time finding a WW2 game that I would like. I played every level of difficulty and 
 gained all the medals in MoH: AA and it was my favorite for a long time. Got into Call of Duty 1-3 
 (especially 3) and it's by far my favorite series along with Brothers in Arms. However, this game 
 totally reinvigorated me for the ww2 series. So far I'm having a blast after the first week of 
 toying with the single player campaign I can't wait to try what the MP aspect holds. Near death 
 encounters are great realism some games have done them but this one mastered it. The sound effects 
 aren't the greatest but they are alright. If I had to point out one thing I think that wasn't great 
 would be what I'd say for almost all ww2 game lately HORRIBLE voice acting. Brothers in Arms 1 
 and 2 would be the exception well written and spoken. The graphics are great for the time it came 
 out, but a little worn. This is a PC guzzler. My old one couldn't run it without crashing a lot. 
 There are plenty of intense moments in the game that will have you gritting your teeth. Grab your 
 mg and helmet and hit the beach soldier! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ng2006
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jun 25, 2007 12:31 am PT
Review:  This game is a good sample for a boring run-shoot-kill game. You'll understand this soon after 
 you finish a stupid training level and deal with your annoying talkative commander. Then you go 
 through a long level into jungles at night one - one of the most boring and longest levels of the 
 game) and the pain starts. Battles and combats are designed too hard and sometimes the number of 
 the times that you've got to reload bores you too. Riding the plane is another boring feature of 
 the game (Thank Goodness, it just happens once) and also it's a very uncomfortable task to do because 
 of very simple but stupid navigation system that it has. There are other tasks that they' look 
 too simple at first but because of bad design of the game at those points you can't finish them 
 properly even by using cheats! Sound renedering system is another problem of the game which sometimes 
 really bothers. There's one thing very ridiculous about this game and it happens when you get wounded 
 and you fall down and after that a japanese soldier shows up and finishes you. This is very silly 
 as sometimes there are a bunch of your friends close to you and no one bothers himself killing 
 that soldier so that you may be saved. This gets sillier in the last showdown of the game when 
 you've got to eliminate a banzai charge, because when it's time for that special soldier to show 
 up he sillily kills his friends in order to reach to you!
  
  Of course, there're good things about this game. The most important one is weapon designing. In 
 my opinion it's the best feature of the game. You really feel easy dealing with all kinds of weapon 
 especially in late levels which you will experience a few powerful and accurate weapons. Aiming 
 down enemies with rifles is so easy and even lovely (Not like Brothers In Arms that is a pain in 
 your ass!) . AI enemy manoeuvres were made very interesting. They're not fools (excepts that one 
 whom I mentioned above!) and aim/attack you smartly.
  
  There're also some exciting points in the game. Levels which I like most were defending flanks 
 at night and the last level where you've got to hold the line alone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thaheo
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 18, 2007 3:05 am PT
Review:  Medal of Honor Pacific Assault is a great new episode from EA for many MoH fans. Personally, I 
 enjoyed it very much, although some parts of the game can be frustratingly difficult or annoying. 
 Examples of this is the mission where flying a plane can be very annoying using FPS buttons.
  
  The clips are usually interesting and you can learn a bit of being a soldier in the war through 
 the protagonist (Private Tommy Conlin) as he tells of his stories and thoughts.
  
  All the battles and missions are mostly true, which is a good thing: games based in history which 
 make up fake battles make you shake your head. Most memorable would be Tarawa, where you - as Conlin 
 - can replay the determination of the soldiers who fought in WW2.
  
  The weapons are all totally real. Cool. I like seeing that, rather then some weapons which are 
 imaginary. The weapons have realistic characteristics as well. There are lots of weapons to pick 
 from as you progress through the game. Once you learn the characteristics of the weapons, and their 
 disadvantage/advantages, you can begin slugging them Japs out proper.
  
  The gunfights are tense and you always find yourself being gutted in the back by a camouflaged 
 Jap, or carrying a wounded teammate to the corpsman. If you try and run away from a fight, your 
 team can suffer losses and could all be pretty much dead or wounded once you return. You have to 
 stay involved and follow orders to stay alive and to keep your mates alive.
  
  Thoroughly, I recommend this game to anyone who is interested in WW2 games, especially of the MoH 
 series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Adeboli
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jun 1, 2007 5:16 pm PT
Review:  Pacific Assault (PA) continues the successful Medal of Honor series, and changes the scene of the 
 action from the dark and rainy Europe to the jungles of the South Pacific.
  
  The Medal of Honor series has always been rather linear, and PA is no different. The experience 
 you'll get in this game are far different from Far Cry, which was also released in 2004 and offers 
 superior freedom and choices to players heading into the jungle. This has pros and cons, the obvious 
 pros being a more immersing storyline, with scripted events and a real sense of direction. On the 
 flip side means the jungles of PA are extremely small and offer little to no room to move around 
 and flank enemies, instead you'll find yourself walking into an invisible wall after you stray 
 only a few meters from the path.
  
  Unlike in Medal of Honor Allied Assault you'll be stuck with the same group of team-mates for the 
 entire game in PA. This does wonders for the story, but it also means members of your team can 
 and will not die, ever, which is of course as unrealistic as it gets. They also range from highly 
 useful (the medic) , to nice (the machine gunner) , to completely useless and nothing but a source 
 of frustration (all your team-mates during the infamous 'Flyboys' mission) . Again, mixed reactions.
 
  
  Speaking of which, the missions are also very varied in quality. The first short missions do little 
 to attract your attention, and it's not until the mission 'Henderson Field' that the real Medal 
 of Honor experience starts to show itself. This continues in 'Luga River', which gives an excellent 
 experience of what fighting in the jungle means. The final mission 'Tarawa' is perhaps an even 
 more impressive account of an invasion than Allied Assault's Omaha Beach was, the intensity and 
 madness that your group of US Marines ends up in is excellent. A star contrast to the mission prior 
 to it, 'Flyboys'. On route in an aircraft your pilot decides to bail out, leaving you at the controls 
 of the plane. So far so good? Not quite, as this is the most frustrating experience of the entire 
 game. Not only are your team-mates completely useless, they seem to take pleasure in getting you 
 into trouble as well. It's probably best to let Flight Sims be Flight Sims, and FPS games be FPS 
 games.
  
  PA comes with a nice choice of difficulty settings and the option to read actual historic information 
 of the battles and equipment used. Sound and graphics are nice for a 2004 game, and if you can 
 look past the extremely limited freedom, are good enough for an immersing experience even today. 
 Fans of the series, and people interested in a some change from the standard 'shoot the German' 
 concept of World War II FPS games will definitely enjoy playing Medal of Honor: Pacific Assault. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VercettiTommyy
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 31, 2007 5:47 am PT
Review:  Medal of Honor Allied Assault was one of the best FPS-s ever. Now, the next Medal of Honor game 
 is Pacific Assault, that treats the american conflict with the japanese. Graphics:9/10 There are 
 some beautiful landscapes,&amp; good textures at objects. The only thing is that it ain't revolutionary.
 
  
  Sound:10/10 The sound is simply perfect, as in every Medal of Honor game. 3D sound, high quality 
 voice acting &amp; sound effects are stunning. Pacific Assault is the only game that convinced me 
 I was really shooting with a rifle, &amp; that's impressive. Gameplay:9/10 Very nice &amp; various. You 
 will have to be driven around in a jeep, observe the daily routine in Hawaii, get to action: shoot 
 enamies, shoot down planes with AA guns, machine guns, or save as many people as you can inside a 
 flaming cruiser. Interacting with teammates, giving them orders &amp; respecting the ones they give, plus 
 the dialogues between you &amp; them are making a really vast gameplay, never experienced in Call 
 of Duty series.
  
  Value:9/10 Pacific Assault ain't just an other WWII shooter. It's a real classic,&amp; it's lenghty, but 
 you won't get bored. Even though not better than Call of Duty (1 or 2) , it's one of the best WWII 
 FPS-s.
  
  Tilt:9/10 You'll get to know your teammates &amp; you'll like them. The story is good &amp; covers 
 a soldier's life in a marine squad that fought at Midway, Iwo Jima &amp; other battles with the 
 japanese, not with Ze (very popular) Germanz. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pogswarts
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 30, 2007 6:26 am PT
Review:  If you have ever played a Medal of Honor game you know the graphics aren't that good, that is, 
 untill now. Pacific Assualt's graphics are just one of the things that make this game great because 
 of the shadows from the trees above you makes it seem like your deep in the jungle while japs jump 
 at you with swords or other different things. The music and sound effects fit the bill just fine, 
 not much else to be said about that. Also the game play is just as fun to look at it. You'll see 
 your men pinned down screaming Retreat! and when they run out they get mowed down by a machine 
 gun (which all these events are different most of the time, which makes a new experience almost 
 everytime your play through) . So, with that said, if you want to play the game at its best you 
 will need one heck of a good PC even if it's a three year old game. I haven't found to many bugs, 
 and if I have I'd forgotten or over looked them in an extremely intense battle with the japs. All 
 in all this should apeal to almost anyone who wants to play a WWII game, not just killing germans, 
 but in the midst of fierce jungle warfare will let you have someone to watch your back, so no more 
 flying solo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: billop
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 30, 2007 3:14 am PT
Review:  Well The title says it all, a very good game but is very flawed. For example you see an enemy hiding 
 in a tree, take aim for his head then shoot......... nothing happens..... you then try to shoot at 
 his body..... nothing happens still! You then try to shoot AGAIN....... then the enemy finally falls 
 down dead! AT LAST! The Graphics are..... fantastic, they really shine with my Geforce 7800 GT
  But even I had some slowdown when the battles got really hot. The Pixel Shaders are fantastic with 
 the Bones cheeks on NPCs looking very realistic.
  The weapons are quite realistic, but as i said the glitches really take away from the realism. Well 
 that was my First, and hopefully not my last, review 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doom_HellKnight
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 17, 2007 12:04 pm PT
Review:  Medal of Honor: Pacific Assault is a nice change from the battlefields of Europe and the shouting 
 of German soldiers.
  The game offers lush tropical jungles crawling with Japanese soldiers and encampments. The Japanese 
 seem to 'come out of the wood work'.
  The game is actually suprisingly, and refreshingly difficult. Bullets actually do more damage to 
 you then you would expect in a normal FPS, and Japanese bayonet charges and stabbings are lethal. 
 Explosions will almost kill you and knock you to the floor. When you're health is depleted, call 
 for the coreman quickly, or you may find yourself on the recieving end of a Japanese bayonet.
 
  Ah, the Coreman, an attempt to make the game that little more difficult and perhaps a little more 
 realistic?
  Well, I personally like the idea of the Coreman. Your health isn't replenished by magical health 
 packs and you don't recover it automatically. You have to call for the Coreman (medic) to patch 
 you up. But they can only be used a limited number of times.
  You have a several man squad acompanying you on your missions. The squad can be given a limited 
 number of orders. Advance , Retreat , Suppressing Fire and Assemble . The AI, for squadmates and 
 the enemy is actually quite intelligent. They take cover effectively, throw grenades (and throw 
 them back) and know when to advance and retreat.
  Japanese also launch bayonet charges at your squad, which can be deadly.
  Sound is great, as 
 with most Second World War games. Though squadmates shouting the same thing several times gets 
 a little repetitive, and ruins the immersion a little.
  Plenty of Japanese and American weapons can be seen and used in the game.
  Overall, Medal of 
 Honor: Pacific Assault is a great game for a gamer looking to try a World War 2 shooter, that is 
 a little different from what we're used to, featuring a less than common enemy and a less than 
 common setting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: btiddy
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 26, 2007 11:15 am PT
Review:  so in the MOH series, this is my personal favorite. Not because of the graphics or the sound, but 
 because it is so believable. if you forget that you're using a keyboard, it feels real. The gameplay 
 is awesome, and the guns are awesome.
  
  I've played the whole game, and i really liked it because there were some times when you had to 
 do stuff to save your fellow soldiers. Like in Pearl harbor, you don't get a weapon because you're 
 saving your comrades. I give this game a 9.8 because it's awesome. Graphics are really good, although 
 sometimes they aren't in sync with the sound. Awesome game, highly recommended. -We the willing, 
 led by the unknowing, are doing the impossible for the ungrateful. We have done so much with so 
 little for so long that we are now prepared to do anything with nothing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pvt_KIDO
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 9, 2007 8:10 pm PT
Review:  To start off Medal of Honor Pacific Assault has revived the Medal of Honor series with new innovative 
 mechanics, stunning graphics, and intense action. Most of all Pacific Assault brings new fun to 
 a worn out genre of crappy, good and amazing World War II shooters.
  
  Game play: Unlike previous installments of Medal of Honor, Pacific Assault gives you a squad to 
 help you out. They will come in handy for you will easily be out numbered compared to the Japanese. 
 People who have played Call of Duty: United Offensive will know what I am talking about. The mass 
 number of enemies on screen at once is over whelming at times. This creates and intense atmosphere, 
 you will never be able to stay in one spot for too long or an enemy will flat out flank you. They 
 will either stab you with their bayonets or shoot you, either way if you are running low on health 
 they will kill you. Just two stabs by a bayonet and you will find that 30% of your health is gone 
 and it will continue to drop steadily unless you apply a bandage on your self.
  
  When you are injured you call for your medic and he will come over and heal you. Be careful though 
 you can only be healed up to four times a level. If you die one of three things will happen
  1) Your medic will come and rescue you, and replenishing your health.
  2) An enemy will come 
 over and stomp your face in, slit your throat, or shoot your face to kill you.
  3) You will lie on the ground until you die.
  
  This type of health system is real well done, 
 it ads a motive not to get hurt, while at the other end, you no longer have to hunt for health 
 packs. More war games should use this type of health system simple because it fits in the war atmosphere 
 and it works really, really well. In Medal of Honor, much like Call of Duty, you can only carry 
 two of any sized weapons, four grenades, four timed explosive bags and binoculars. Ammunition is 
 limited, and weapons arent all that accurate. You must rely on aiming down you sights to get a 
 good shot with out wasting ammo. Reloading does take longer than most would expect, but this just 
 ads to the overall realism of the game. Bullets do a good number on you; just around eight good 
 placed rifle shots will put you on the ground, hoping you medic isnt killed while trying to save 
 you. [Your medic will die but he heals himself.] Machine and Sub Machine guns will take you out 
 faster than you can say Terminator. In order to progress in the game you need to use cover wisely, 
 you need to move from rock to rock or tree to tree. The lean feature as seen in Call of Duty and 
 Call of Duty: United Offensive is also, in this game, just press E to lean to the right and Q 
 to lean to the left. This will come in handy when you need to take a well placed shot, without 
 getting hit.
  
  Pacific Assault has arcade elements such as the famous red oil containers. Shoot them to cause 
 massive explosions. These containers are in almost every level in high amounts. They are normally 
 placed by towers, which collapse easily, which is why you need to move. If a tower collapses on 
 you, youre going to die because your medic cant reach you. However the arcade feel to the game 
 is minimal, and combines nicely with the serious and intense shooter feel. [Score to come in Part 
 2.]
  
  The only real complaint to make about the game play is that sometimes it can be hard to find your 
 objective thanks to the more than lacking compass. There are also some noticeable glitches. One 
 is when you press the alt key your iron sights are to come up and stay up until you hit the key 
 again, for some reason when you quite the game and then re-enter the game again, you have to hold 
 alt to keep your sights up. This is a very minor glitch but an annoying one. Another one is sometimes 
 characters will freeze or get stuck on rocks or trees. This isnt all that bad, it just gets annoying 
 when they are needed to complete an objective or to move on to the next faze of the game.
  
  Overall Pacific Assault delivers an amazing and fun game play experience that has been lacking 
 in most World War II shooters.
  
  Graphics: To start off, you will need a really good machine to have the graphics up. I have a Core 
 2 Duo 2.18 gigahertz processor, NVIDIA Geforce 7900 GS at its max quality performance, 2 gigabytes 
 of Random Access Memory. I have the settings all the way up at 1280 by 1024 [19 LCD Monitor] 
 at a 60 hertz refresh rate, and I get at most 40 frames per second. The actual graphics look really 
 good; they really shine in the lighting effects. [no pun intended.] Characters models are good 
 but they still have rectangular figures some triangular joints. Trees, ferns and other plants look 
 really realistic, light reflects off of them pretty well. The weapons are lacking a bit though, 
 for instance the B. A. R. and Thompson look as if they were made from plastic yet, when light reflects 
 on them, they look like metal. Some graphical glitches can occur. During Boot Camp when a person 
 would walk, [it was just for this one person.] His upper half of his body would disappear. Thankfully 
 this did not continue to any other levels. Explosions look amazing however; they tend to eat a 
 big chunk of your frame rate. The physics in this game are done correct yet some funny things can 
 happen. Enemies react like they should when they are hit. For instance I shot a Japanese solider 
 in the shoulder and he grabbed it and hung on to it while he dropped his rifle and took out a pistol 
 to continue fighting. Now to the funny part, an enemy was charging me and I shot him with a 30 
 Caliber Machine Gun and he flew upward and then proceeded to fall back down to earth. You will 
 also notice that your enemies will grab their groin indicating that you hit them in the family 
 jewels. Overall the graphics are flawed yet still look great. 9/10
  
  Sound: The sounds in Pacific Assault are all unique and different. No two guns sound alike. Explosions 
 have really nice Kaboom sound to them. Gun reloads all sound different and cool in there own 
 way. Your squad mates will talk, sadly 40% of it is all just repeated useless filler, but the other 
 60% can be rather useful at times. During cut scenes, voiceovers at times are spot on and at others 
 not so great, but still well enough that you might not notice but then again, I sure did. Environment 
 sounds could have been better, some background noise like faint gun shots and artillery shells 
 going off would have made the environment more believable but most of the time you are engaged 
 in fire fights so it really doesnt matter. Other than that sound is sound and there isnt much 
 to say about it other than its good. 8/10
  
  Game play Part 2: The AI in Pacific Assault is very nicely done, enemies will use cover, flank 
 you and retreat if necessary, though most of the time when they are losing they will bayonet charge 
 you in an attempt to catch you off guard. It does when there are ten enemies rushing you and all 
 you have is a bolt action rifle. Like your squad mates, enemies will also talk with them selves 
 but it will be in Japanese so you probably wont know what they are saying. The Japanese also set 
 traps for you. Some times they will pretend to be dead and jump out and shoot you when youre not 
 looking. Other times they will ambush you making the environment more believable. There are of 
 course large battles in this game, larger than those in Call of Duty: United Offensive. You will 
 have limited ammo and health on some levels where your goal is to hold the line with a machine 
 gun. You will have Japanese every where shooting you, charging you, flanking you, with large numbers 
 over that of five hundred men.
  The campaign has a nice length to it about 12-20 hours depending on the difficulty.
  
  It is 
 all rather intense, and very, very hard. Even on easy people will find a good challenge here. Some 
 times I run out of medical kits on levels, leaving me with some hard moments in which I have to 
 rely on my squad to do the shooting. Overall the game play for Pacific Assault gets a 9.5/10.
 
  
  Overall, Medal of Honor Pacific Assault, is a thrill ride to the end, it is nice to play the other 
 side of World War II. I have smoked so many Krauts in European based shooters it isnt even funny. 
 Its nice to play against a whole new enemy in a whole new environment, which is very intense. 
 Medal of Honor Pacific Assault rises above hit games like Call of Duty, Call of Duty: United Offensive, 
 and Call of Duty 2. You will not be disappointed with this game. Sadly many people have moved on 
 from the Medal of Honor series, remembering it as an arcade shooter, when if fact this brings 
 new life to the series, but Pacific Assault was greatly overlooked and forgotten by a lot. I recommend 
 this game to anyone who wants a new turn of World War II play or is a fan of shooters or the Medal 
 of Honor Series.
  
  Unfortunately I couldnt get my multiplayer to work so I have no review for it. As for this long 
 review Medal of Honor Pacific Assault gets an 8.9/10 [Not an average.] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: THA-TODD-BEAST
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 8, 2007 9:49 pm PT
Review:  If you're a veteran of the World War 2 shooter genre, you've been through it all without a doubt 
 - all of Europe, at least. Have you ever fought in the Pacific, however? Sure, you've cleared fancy 
 buildings of snipers and fought enemies easily seen in the distance, but have you ever endured 
 the fatiguing and horrific fighting known as jungle warfare? If not, you're in for a treat and 
 a bit of surprise with one of the more recent Medal of Honor games, Medal of Honor Pacific Assault.
 
  
  In Pacific Assault, you take the role of Tommy Conlin, a new recruit who gradually adjusts to the 
 war going on around him, making various friends along the way - all of which you will fight beside 
 on the battlefield. The game starts with a bang, too, featuring a storm the beaches -type scenario 
 reminiscent of the D-Day landings at Normandy, only you're knocked out by an artillery blast and 
 re-awaken with a flashback of the first days of boot camp, followed by a first-hand viewing and 
 defending of the Pearl Harbor attacks; the game progresses from there.
  
  It's with this style of story-telling that the game gets much of its personality. Medal of Honor 
 Allied Assault, hailed one of the best games in the series, had an excellent single-player campaign 
 with the unforgettable, epic D-Day landing scene straight out of Saving Private Ryan, but in terms 
 of storytelling, it wasn't quite as in depth. In Pacific Assault, as you progress through the campaign 
 you'll be met with various video clips showing actual footage of the war and with Tommy - the soldier 
 you are playing as - talking directly to his folks back home. It's similar to listening to an actual 
 letter being read, and really adds to the atmosphere. You will also get to often hear comments 
 from your fellow soldiers, whether it be, Nice one, Tommy! when you land a great shot on a Japanese 
 soldier or various jokes that are shared amongst the group, often teasing another soldier. You 
 truly get to see these men live and grow as the true definition of soldiers. Your medic stops vomiting 
 every time he heals you and your men stop backing down when caught in tricky situations. You really 
 feel as if these guys are family, and it makes you feel bad to know that when you leave the game, 
 you'll be leaving them behind, too.
  
  The gameplay is much different from other Medal of Honor games. Because it is set in the Pacific, 
 the jungle warfare will quickly rattle the nerves of those who are used to the much more friendly 
 urban settings. This time, your enemies will be much harder to see and the lighting is often a 
 bit darker, making it ideal to stick with your squad mates and carry through the best that you 
 can. It's not uncommon to only see a muzzle flash and be forced to fire back in the general direction 
 to take out the enemy without being hit yourself. It's also wise to stay a bit back during the 
 fighting, because Japanese troops - if you are caught in close range - will suddenly charge you, 
 shouting Banzai! and brutally, repeatedly stabbing you with the bayonets attached to their rifles.
 
  
  Without a doubt, the game can be very tough to learn how to play. Adjusting to the jungle warfare 
 is only part of the learning curve; calling for medics when injured is critical to survival and 
 sticking with your squad at all times is also very important, as you may be ambushed by machine-gun 
 nests, snipers, or even all-out assaults by the Japanese soldiers. There are many frustrating moments, 
 especially due to the way soldiers can unexpectedly respawn and attack you from behind, but ultimately 
 once you learn the key tactics you shouldn't have too much trouble fighting alongside your buddies 
 and faring well.
  
  You won't always be fighting in the jungle, however. There are also several missions in the campaign 
 that feature unique situations and help keep the game interesting. One mission, for example, features 
 you being the gunner on and eventually flying an airplane. This was one of my favorite missions 
 in the game and was surprisingly well done considering the fact that this game is purely a first-person 
 shooter and not a flight simulator!
  
  Overall, if you are a fan of the Medal of Honor series but are tired of the same urban World War 
 2 combat you've been experiencing for so long, I'd recommend giving Medal of Honor Pacific Assault 
 a try. Its unique atmosphere and great story-telling make it one of the more memorable and overlooked 
 World War 2 shooters out there. With great graphics and gameplay, you should definitely give this 
 one a chance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sharier
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 7, 2007 11:46 am PT
Review:  Medal of Honor Pacific Assault resembles the style of Call of Duty in all aspects; yet it is truly 
 an original game. In other words, it has got the same entertainment value and thrill of COD and 
 an instant winner. Like COD, the player starts as a recruit and is sent on an assignment to the 
 war. This game was designed on the basis of serious research of the WW2; and gives you the virtual 
 experience of a real war. The guns, the tanks and all other war machines feel so real to play, 
 yet easy to handle with your keyboard buttons and mouse.
  Like the COD, the challenges in this game at times become very difficult from very easy. This makes 
 a very thrilling experience every moment. The graphics of this game is superb and the enemy AI 
 real challenging. This is a must have for all action gamers. My only complain is that the game 
 ends fast... may be because it is so addictive that I played it for long stretches in each sitting. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Star_Wars117
Rating: 7.6
Date: Mar 23, 2007 12:15 pm PT
Review:  Medal Of Honor has always brought us a quality game thats fun to play. This edition to the series 
 is not diffrent. You star out in boot camp and then go to pearl harbor and all the way thro the 
 pacific campaign of World War II. Gameplay is fun and at times repititive. Kill the japs blow something 
 up then go from point A to point B again. Pearl harbor is the best mission in game with beatiful 
 explosions and lots of action including rescuing soldiers on a battleship. Graphics are nice for 
 a game that came out in 2004 becasue it runs of a diffrent engine. Nice detail of the jungles and 
 water is pretty. Explosions get worse after the pearl harbor mission. Sound is good to with realistic 
 weapon sounds and vehicle sounds. The game now is about 10 bucks so its a cheap buy overall the 
 game is worth a buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theBLITZmaster
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 21, 2007 6:39 pm PT
Review:  The game is good. There! No more conversation!! Ok, ok. the weapons are good and its multiplayer 
 is solid. The only problem with invader is its spawn pool. Well. You know the whole story of the 
 double w and double i war and this is an effort to make money out of a global tragedy. But its 
 still a good game worth spending some money depending on the store because of their attempt to 
 get money. You will be Tommy Conlin and go to all the places in Japan. Its to bad its only in Japan 
 but thats NOH for ya!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hiddai
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 20, 2007 2:46 pm PT
Review:  My father bought me this game from the Shuk together with the GTA: SA game however i installed 
 this game a bit later on February 2005.
  
  This game tells the Japanese side of the WW2 on the Japanese battlefield from the Pearl Harbor 
 on 1941 to the Japanese D-Day on 1943. You play as Tommy Conlin a soldier who just passed the basic 
 training. However the first mission in the game is actually the last mission in the game and and 
 the first officially mission is the Basic training where you learn how to move, shoot etc.
  
  The first combat mission is the Pearl Harbor where the game featuring his exciting war effect 
 drama as you can see everyone running everything happens so fast and you don't understand what 
 your are doing but it makes you feel like you are in a real war and this is the coolest feeling 
 you can expect from a War game!!!
  
  The Graphic is impressively great lots of effects, somewhat interactive environment and beautiful 
 explosions!
  
  The Sound is also very impressive you can hear the voice of the war shouting and it's very realistic 
 also!
  
  The Gameplay is the interesting part. tens of guns from a normal M1911 0.45 Pistol to a M1928 Thompson 
 with 30 Magazine and even M1928 Thompson with 50 magazine!!! and you can use also the Japanese 
 weapons and also you can sometimes in the SP mode use heavy artillery!!! and... fly an Aircraft!!!
 
  You can also fight in a Banzai charge battle as the angry Japanese soldiers running after you 
 screaming and you must not get killed and you can sometime bleed and you must stop the bleeding 
 by pressing b.
  
  You can earn medals if you complete the secret objectives or the classic Hero Moments the game 
 features!!! Also if your Life bar reach zero you come to the dying mode and 3 things can happen 
 here:
  1. Your medic will come and heal you back!!! (Only if the medic has medical supplies for you)
 
  2. A Japanese soldier will come and kill you (happens when you don't have medical supplies or 
 your medic can't reach you - This is also a good point to say that the Japanese soldier that kills 
 you can't be shot by your team and he is created each time you are in the dying mode which is sometimes 
 is very frustrating... grrr!)
  3. Nothing will happen and you will simply die slowly and you'll hear thr last memories of Tommy 
 in the background... sad
  
  About your Medic - Jimmy. Each mission you start with 2 (in hard mode) medical supplies for you 
 however for the rest of your teammates your medic has unlimited number of medical supplies which 
 is not fair. Your friends can't die because the medic can always fix himself with his own medical 
 supply and then he heals the rest of the crew and sometimes the crew has medical supplies for themselves... GRRR! 
 not fair...
  
  The Game is sometimes a bit bugging but it's fine after all and you can also have the MP mode but 
 there's nothing special about it it's simple like every MP mode of a FPS game...
  
  However MoH: PA is one of the best Medal of Honor games as it featuring 6 missions (each is divided 
 to more big sub missions) with an amazing excitement you feel like in a real war and you must do 
 everything in order to complete your objective. I am Highly recommend this game in my Opinion it 
 was a great adventure for me one of the best WW2 game i've ever played!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homes225
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 19, 2007 12:24 pm PT
Review:  Medal of Honor: Pacific Assault came out in 2004 but in 2007 it still plays as well as ever. With 
 maxed out settings I enjoyed it through and through whether it was blowing up Japanese Artillery 
 along side my Marine Brothers or defending Pearl Harbor, this game had me alert and wanting to 
 scream GET SOME . Pacific Assault spans for 25 single player missions with a solid 15 hours for 
 you to play. The feel and variety of weapons was nice and I really found my favorite weapons to 
 be some of the greatest in a WWII game, such as the M1 Carbine. Instead of having to take cover 
 to heal or have numerous medic kits, in PA you have a medic who can heal you a limited number of 
 times during a mission where you have 50 or 1 health. This adds to the realism factor especially 
 when you are incapacitated, your life depends on if the medic can get to you before the enemy plants 
 a boot in your face.
  
  A soldier is nothing without training. PA digs deep into this with a fun but challenging Boot Camp 
 level that teaches you the basics while allowing you to excell by earning extra medals. The medals 
 aren't exclusive to just Boot Camp seeing as you can earn them throughout the course of the game 
 by doing things that make you stand and Going above the Call of Duty .
  
  Graphics-wise Pacific Assault could compete with many of today's games, that is if it is running 
 full settings. The thing that stood out to me was certain explosions, like at Pearl Harbor, and 
 muzzle flashes looked amazing, definately a cool feature. The psyhics look fine at first but after 
 a while I noticed weird glitches such as when I shot an enemy in the leg he would catapult into 
 the air like he was shot by a tank. If this would have happened once or twice I would have overlooked 
 it but this happened serveral times so it made the experience less realistic than it needed to 
 be.
  
  Shortness of gameplay and a few glitches were the only thing holding Medal of Honor: Pacific Assault 
 back from being on par or even better than the Call of Duty Series. Nonetheless Medal of Honor: PA 
 shouldn't be skipped thanks to its unique features and intense, semi-realistic gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pentit
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 16, 2007 10:22 pm PT
Review:  One of the best Medal of Honor publication so far. Missions are very well designed and with many 
 details. The graphic is much better then the other games of the same type. Also you must have a 
 good computer if you want to play this game nicely.
  
  Battle is against U. S. army and Japanese. You are starting like a new soldier at the Pearl Harbor. 
 Just when you arrived the Japan airplanes are over the harbor, and there you start your fighting. 
 Flying missions are not so good, especially when you have to sink aircraft carrier. There are some 
 new features, one of them is the corpsman. Maybe there should be some more weapons, but however, 
 I would recommend it for everyone who likes this type of games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Villimax
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 12, 2007 3:50 pm PT
Review:  I'll have to explain myself with my little summary up there. The single player of Pacific Assault 
 is pretty dang fun. The last (3D) Medal of Honor game released before Pacific Assault was Medal 
 of Honor: Rising Sun. Rising Sun had the boring, teammate-less gameplay of all of the previous 
 Medal of Honor games.
  The environments were linear, and uncomplicated. Now, that's not necessarily a bad thing, but the 
 jungles of Rising Sun hardly captured any sort of realistic jungle feeling where enemies could 
 be hiding anywhere. Instead, everyone would be out in the open. There'd be a million of those little 
 underground pit traps that Japs would burst out of, but those could be seen from a mile away.
 
  Also, like I said, the game was virtually teammate-less. The player would get more teammates than 
 in any other Medal of Honor game, but they'd still die mysteriously or seperate from the player 
 for no reason, and there'd be zero character development.
  But this isn't supposed to be a review of Rising Sun. I'm building up to say that Pacific Assault 
 fixes all that. For starters, teamwork is a much larger part of Pacific Assault. The player gets 
 his three trusty buddies (including a medic) throughout the majority of the game, and the player 
 often works alongside more expendable, unnamed buddies.
  The medic can heal or revive the player a limited number of times. The medic also works to revive 
 fallen allies, or revive himself if he's hit. If a comrade remains unrevived for a certain amount 
 of time, he'll die. The player's three buddies (and the more important of the generic guys) can't 
 die when unrevived.
  Enemies also get medics, which is pretty cool, but also means that enemies that should be dead 
 will suddenly come back to life.
  The player can slow down the process of the death of his generic teammates by carrying them (one 
 at a time) . This stops them from dying when not getting the revive they desperately need. He can 
 then drop them off by the medic.
  If the player himself isn't revived fast enough, a Japanese soldier will come out of nowhere and 
 kill him. This can be pretty stupid at times. Once, I was in a certain spot absolutely surrounded 
 by my teammates. Even though I wasn't in an illegal zone, I instantly became incapacitated and 
 in a split second a Jap showed up out of nowhere and killed me. Even though I was surrounded by 
 allies and there were no enemies around, that happened. It was pretty damn stupid and annoying.
 
  Enough about teamwork. Let me get to the environments. The game takes place pretty much just in 
 jungles, or little Japanese-built huts. The player also visits an airfield and a battleship on 
 his adventure, but otherwise it's mainly restricted to jungles.
  The jungles of the game are, unlike the ones in Rising Sun, quite realistic and complicated. There's 
 tons of places to hide. The player can keep stealthy in brush, or he can stand out in the open 
 and get spotted by everyone. Enemies can also hide in the brush, but not in the magical invisibility 
 way that the player can maintain.
  One cool thing about stealth is that allies can also maintain it. As long as the player himself 
 doesn't fire his gun and stays out of sight, so will they. However, they can often screw up everything 
 for everyone. Once, I was trying to sneak around behind an enemy camp, climb up a tower and man 
 the machine gun. I had actually gotten pretty far, but then one of my allies decided that, instead 
 of hanging back and waiting on me, he'd just run out in the middle of the camp and be the hero. 
 Whenever one of the player's allies is spotted, the player himself is suddenly visible, even if 
 he was completely invisible before. So, everyone died. I still got to follow through with my plan, 
 but I had to do it under fire.
  One thing the single player game definitely allows for is freedom of choice. You can choose to 
 be sneaky, or you can try and kill every last Japanese soldier within a square mile. In the end, 
 even if you're sneaky, you'll have to kill everyone. There's rarely a moment in which you don't 
 need to kill everyone to get past them. Sneaking just lets you get a better position on the enemies.
 
  
  One thing I can't stand about the game is that getting hit by enemies isn't as terribly obvious 
 as it is in other Medal of Honor games. Instead of the screen flashing red and jerking violently, 
 a little arrow just points in the direction of where you're getting hit and there's otherwise little 
 change. This makes me feel like I'm not taking damage at all, if not for the fact that I would 
 die suddenly, unaware of the danger that I'm in. I can't stand how easily the player can get damaged, 
 forcing him to rely on his medic to heal him just because of a single mistake.
  
  My crappy computer can run the game's video and audio just fine, but the AI in the single player 
 take too much memory so everything goes slow-motion during a battle. My dad's computer can run 
 the game full speed with all of the settings all the way up, so I had to be at his house to enjoy 
 the single player.
  To get the single player to run a decent speed at all on my computer, I had to open up a text file 
 to turn off ragdolls and shadows. That saved a crapload of memory, and I'm kind of annoyed that 
 shadows of all things couldn't be disabled normally.
  
  The multiplayer is, to put it simply, the most realistic and tactical multiplayer game I've ever 
 played. Not many people play Pacific Assault online. Not even 100. There are hardly ever that many 
 servers on at once. Maybe five or six. However, there's one server that's been around ever since 
 I got the game. It only allows for 25 players, which normally I'd think is awful for a FPS, but 
 that's about as high as the servers get in Pacific Assault.
  The reason the server is so great is that the server forces everyone to walk. Normally, everyone 
 would run at 50 MPH around levels. When forced to walk, everyone's encouraged to stick together. 
 There's also a respawn limit, so there's heavier reliance on being near eachother, especially with 
 medics.
  Pretty much every game on that server can expect some serious stealthy business. I remember one 
 time when I was sneaking into a Yankee base with all of my other Jap buddies. We all kept low and 
 used cover as much as possible. Nobody had to say anything. I didn't know anyone in the server. 
 It was all mutual. We split up in half, and did some more sneaking. I'm ALWAYS a medic, so I let 
 the big, tough guys advance. My buddy was making his way through a building. Suddenly, he was hit 
 and incapacitated.
  I hadn't been spotted. I knew where the enemy was when he shot my buddy. He was in the same building, 
 hiding around a corner. I snuck around behind the enemy and blasted him with my pistol. Then I 
 revived my fallen teammate, and we continued our advance. I also got three out of four awards at 
 the end of the game. One I got was most accurate because I managed to take, like, two enemies out 
 with my pistol without missing.
  Anywho, the multiplayer, on that server at least, is incredibly realistic, tactical and very team-based, 
 especially because that server always runs objective-based maps.
  I have played on other servers where everything was more like Run as fast as you can and shoot 
 as many people as you can, and though that loses much of the tactics and realism that being forced 
 to walk creates.
  The environments allow for a lot of stealth, as there's tons of brush and everyone wears dull colors 
 so it's easy to blend if you actually try. Luckily, there's also nothing giving enemies away. A 
 lot of multiplayer games for some reason put icons over the heads of enemies, or show their names 
 whenever the crosshair passes over them. Luckily, Pacific Assault has no such dead giveaways of 
 enemy positions, so it's all about how well a player can spot enemies naturally.
  
  This game was well worth the money, not just because of the awesome single player that blends both 
 stealth and insane action, but also the multiplayer, which maintains the same realistic stealth/action 
 as the single player game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adders11
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 19, 2007 8:23 am PT
Review:  MOH Pacific Assault is one of the best WW2 games I've played. Though it's not my faveourite MOH 
 game, it's still a decent shooter none-the-less. The presentation is great and it brings loads 
 of new things to the series such as:
  -You fly a plane on one level, it's not the best part of the game, but it's still fun.
  -Squad 
 commands are included... a waste of time in my opinion, but they're included.
  -A physics engine is put in, it's not on many objects though.
  -You can hold 2 guns at a time 
 BUT you can pick up any gun an enemy drops which is cool because it gives you more options.
  
  The graphics in Pacific Assault are very impressive on highest resolution- the game looks very 
 detailed and I play through 1024x768 and all textures and effects on very high... it looked damn 
 good. The chracter models look the best and the jungle scenery is nice too. There's lots of little 
 touches too, like all the plants and grass blowing in the wind, yes, it's been used before, but 
 on Pacific Assualt literally every single blade of grass does it! Oh, and the water looks really 
 cool.
  The sound is, like all MOH games top-notch. The sound and music are expertly accomplished and the 
 quality is amazing thanks to the THX sound system. It's like your in a cinema.
  One thing I was impressed by was the AI, the Japenese are very smart sometimes and your own men 
 really know how to handle themselves, if you are in the middle of a fire-fight and need to be healed, 
 the medic will wait 'till the coast is clear then heal you. And your men can plan their own strategies. 
 How cool is that?
  There are loads of missions in the single-player game. Most are just destroy a base while running 
 through the jungle on foot. Some are in vehicles like Pearl Harbour and a bit towards the end of 
 this one level where you are in a car. Also, you get to fly a plane!!! But its not that great but 
 still, its a change from most MOH games and nice to see EA had a go at this. So, most missions 
 are great and are more realistic than the previous MOH games.
  The combat in Pacific Assault is much better than most MOH games- enemies will hide in the vegetation, 
 your men will plan out strategies and you can be stealthy or just run in all guns blazing. It also 
 feels like a more complete MOH game- it's like an advanced and more realistic version of the dissapointing 
 MOH Rising Sun. You basically need cover in a lot of situations too, as enemies are a lot smarter 
 than before.
  The multiplayer is above average too. There are many different modes to choose from. The most annoying 
 thing about Pacific Assualt is that there are a few points where you'll get stuck for ages and 
 take several attempts at the same place. Also, it took me about 1 hour to install the game for 
 some reason.
  Overall, Pacific Assualt is a game that's definitely worth buying if you like WW2 games or fans 
 of the series. It's WAY better than Rising Sun. I recommend it to FPS fans on the whole too as 
 I am not a big WW2 game fan but I enjoy it whenever I play it.
  
  My PC Specs:
  -AMD Sempron 3400+ (3.4GHz)
  -nVidia GeForce 7300GT 256MB Video RAM
  -1GB RAM 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flicker66
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 23, 2007 2:08 pm PT
Review:  Coming off the back of a thorough romp through several levels of difficulty on PA's predecessor 
 Allied Assault, I thought I'd seen it all... or most of it at least! Sharpening up with AA's expansion 
 packs Spearhead and Breakthrough, I was ready to crack on with the GIs in the Pacific.
  
  One of the interesting features of this game is its strong narrative drive. The actual structure 
 of the story - and it is a story as seen from one soldier's viewpoint - throws you right into the 
 action from the off but it's actually a false start. Private Tom Conlin is reliving the moment 
 when he was either fatally or seriously wounded and you then go back two years to his training 
 experience in the US. Training missions on games like this (and Call of Duty) are a tad superfluous 
 for experienced gamers but PA's one has the chance to win medals, although that's not apparent 
 at the time.
  
  You as Tom become part of a squad and PA is different from many FPSs in that it is squad-based: 
 rarely are you expected to do the job alone. As the game progresses - getting really underway at 
 the seismic point at which the US entered what was then a European conflict (some two years late, 
 standing back as Hitler ravaged Europe and Britain faced its darkest hour) , Pearl Harbor - the 
 action rarely slows down afterwards.
  
  Indeed, young Tommy is required to man all kinds of weaponry so be prepared to take control of 
 anti-aircraft guns, powerful Bofors and the more usual light machine guns. Pvt Conlin shows himself 
 to be a truly versatile marine as he's called upon to even fly a plane at one point!
  
  From Japan's pre-emptive strike on Pearl Harbor to Guadalcanal and Tarawa, you're in the thick 
 of it a good deal of the time. The action is quite varied so, even though you'll be fighting through 
 jungle a good deal of the time, you'll also be scrapping on beaches, piers, cliffs etc. I personally 
 found the Tarawa pier and beach invasion missions the hardest to complete but the flying levels 
 were also demanding. The graphics are awesome at times and the ability to store screenshots when 
 your monitor is truly ablaze with colour is very useful. Overall you bond with your squad and so 
 they come to respect you and you them. It brings a very human dimension to the game. There are 
 moments of true poignancy along the way and these help to round out the story a good deal. It's 
 not all running and gunning.
  
  Drawbacks? There weren't many but the long loading times between levels were a pain as were the 
 (thankfully optional) info screen which fed you snippits about the real war in the Pacific and 
 the men who fought it. It wasn't that I wasn't interested but they were a bit distracting.
  
  At over twenty-five single-player missions it's long too so there's plenty to get your teeth 
 into. I'd say it was about five steps further on from Allied Assault and the gameplay is truly 
 immersive. If this is anything to go by, Airborne (soon to appear on the PC) will be truly the 
 business. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: comptrex
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 20, 2007 10:49 pm PT
Review:  Pacific Assault continues the war into the western realms. Instead of the consistent battling of 
 Nazi forces that we have come to see on a constant fair, this one takes us into the Battle of the 
 Pacific. Fast planes, ship warfare and jungle environs that add a new eerie at times backdrop for 
 those of us that have come to enjoy the FPS war genre. It has some higher load times as stated 
 in the review, even for a 3 Ghz machine, but the graphics and most audio are a joy. There are a 
 few spots were the audio does hang and your squadmates seem to get lost, but those are very rare 
 indeed. Overall, this is one of the better ones at there, especially if you are lucky enough to 
 find it in the bargain bin. A definite keeper... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mauglinis
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 8, 2007 11:28 pm PT
Review:  not very great for new players, but fans of MOH serries like me, enjoyed this game. boring with 
 planes. liked grafics and sounds. beatiful vibe. the bigest immpression was at the begining of 
 game, real action. but i think that to kill 30 planes from boat and stay alive is not realistic 
 (afcourse there are much more non realistic scenes in this geme, but still) - badness. in my opinion 
 value accords to game quality. looking at evaluation this game have the worst evaluation during 
 the all MOH serries. why? don ask me, im viewed all statistics and average of evaluation was worst 
 than others MOH games. and im still waiting for new work - MOH airbone. i wish there was no non 
 realistic scenes with planes like MOH PA... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: timbo0827
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 28, 2006 9:55 am PT
Review:  Medal of Honor Pacific Assualt is a great game for the price of $10. The level design is linear 
 but the difficulty for this game ensures hours of gameplay.
  
  Gameplay: This is probably the hardest Medal of Honor game ever, at least for the PC, as of right 
 now. The level design is linear but the jungle theme makes it seem like a multi path level. Great 
 improvements with AI and enemies do react realistically just like actual Japanese soldiers during 
 WW2. Graphics: Not the prettiest of games but it does a decent job. Pretty nice effects and water 
 look good too. The graphics look very similar to Call of Duty except slightly nicer water and effects. 
 Physics do a good job also.
  
  Sound: The effects sound somewhat nice and the music is excellent, but the dialogue is a little 
 genaric. Not really the voices but during cutscenes the word choice is very poor for a war game.
 
  
  Value: Try a demo, if you like it buy it. Actually for $10 just buy it is worth it.. Pretty high 
 replay value also.
  
  TILT: Slight improvements from other WW2 games but still feels like a WW2 game. The Pacific front 
 is done well and this is probably the best Pacific front WW2 game out right now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DTbikerider9
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 13, 2006 1:39 pm PT
Review:  There are many WW2 gaming companies and Medal of Honor is one of the best. This addition to the 
 series is one of the greatest WW2 games ever. The basics are explained and done in the beggining 
 boot camp and then your out to war. Weapons in the game are great and are of a mass vareity. Story 
 line is good and solid but I was actually impressed with the sound and graphics of the game. The 
 contol of allies in the game can be a bit difficult but when this kind of games comes along who 
 really cares. Surely this is one of the best PC games ever and deffinetly if your a first person 
 shooter fan you should get this game. I rate Medal of Honor Pacific Assault a superb 9.3 out of 
 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matconnor
Rating: 4.5
Date: Dec 13, 2006 12:52 pm PT
Review:  I was a big fan of the original MOHAA game. Until Call of Duty came along, I thought it pretty 
 much embodied the ideal WWII FPS game. What has happened betweeen that original game which premiered 
 in 2002, &amp; this Pacific-themed shooter, I'm not sure, except none of it is good.
  
  For starters, this game plays like a decade-old arcade type shooter. From the opening map which 
 features the attack on the US Navy ships at Pearl Harbor, the feel &amp; play is one of a highly 
 repetitive, unoriginal, &amp; lackluster game. The maps seem to appear to almost interchangeable, 
 generic jungle setting, with behind the curve graphics more appropriate to a game from 5 or 6 years 
 ago. Even with the texture setting on Very High, character model on High, &amp; 2.0 shaders on, 
 this game looks simply blah by 2006 standards, or for that matter 2004 standards, when it was released. 
 There is simply no heart to it; the gameplay is immensely repetitive &amp; boring, with your braindead 
 squadmates shouting out the same hackneyed, 5 or 6 canned phrases constantly (Here they come, y'all!!) 
 as they charge mindlessly into enemy machine gun, sniper, &amp; tank fire. When not doing this 
 they will run in circles like decapitated chickens, or get stuck on trees &amp; rocks or behind 
 various objects.
  
  The game is highly scripted &amp; linear, with absolutely no sense of spontaneity or realism. The 
 Japanese soldiers are equally braindead in their total lack of any real AI, outside of a lot of 
 sideways crab shuffling to avoid your fire, when not standing stock still, like targets at a shooting 
 gallery. The worst offense of all is the totally unrealistic magical spawning which occurs in already 
 cleared areas, a la the demons &amp; imps popping up in Doom 3. Just when a battle has ended, you 
 pass a invisible waypoint &amp; BAM! some Japs are suddenly bayoneting you in your spleen from 
 behind, where it was all clear just seconds before. The tedium of this style of uninspired &amp; 
 retro game design wears thin after the first several levels: I found myself constantly thinking, 
 Will anything change or become realistic here? Anything at all? Sadly, even though I have not finished 
 the entire experience , the answer seems to be NO.
  
  The only redeeming features I encountered about MOHPA were the fairly quick load times ( a pleasant 
 surprise after all the negatives which have been written concerning this) &amp; the price I paid 
 at Best Buy...$9.99. Anything more &amp; I would have demanded a refund for this steaming pile 
 of mishmash. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Glordit
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 13, 2006 6:12 am PT
Review:  Like previous Medal of Honor outings, Pacific Assault puts your virtual fingers around authentic 
 period weaponry. The arsenal includes 15 realistically modeled guns like the M1 Carbine, M55 Reising 
 submachine gun, the Type 100 SMG, and the Model 44 Cavalry Carbine Rifle. Load out is still assigned 
 on a mission-to-mission basis, and new weapons come into your possession periodically, with better 
 hardware becoming available as years pass in the story. As you travel, youll also come across 
 usable emplacements with fixed weaponry like heavy machine guns and mortars.
  
  Pacific Assault has added basic team orders to the list of features, so you can coordinate with 
 your squad. You are now able to tell your team to press forward, fall back, reassemble and give 
 cover fire. These commands help in tight spots and can save your bacon if used properly. At one 
 point I was working my way up a jungle river-bed when my squad got ambushed. The enemy was quickly 
 getting the upper hand because we were out in the open while they had decent cover behind rocks 
 and trees. I was able to tell my men to fall back, and by doing that, they were all able to find 
 cover. Eventually, we drew the Japanese fighters to us and we walked out of there while they floated 
 on down the river.
  
  If you lose all of your health, you will pass out, making the world go blurry and gray. Death is 
 not inevitable at this point, though. If a corpsman finds you in enough time, he can bring you 
 back to consciousness and full health. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Solidsnake13_2
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 11, 2006 7:55 pm PT
Review:  Medal of Honor Pacific Assault is an awsome and very fun game to play. I have always been a Medal 
 of Honor fan, ever since the first Medal of Honor the Playstation system, I loved it. This game 
 offers a lot of good detail, good music, same and always good gameplay. The gameplay is really 
 good, with ability, to give squad commands and have a Navy Corpmen come to your aid is a really 
 good idea to make the game more fun. The story as you know is based on the War in the Pacific, 
 which mostly had the United States Marine Corp to fight in it. This game, I don't know what else 
 to say, it's just a good simple, easy, to play game. You don't have to be a Medal of Honor fan 
 to like it, if you like First person shooters games, then you should try this game out. Sometimes, 
 the Medal of Honor series can give you a little bit of a history lesson if you pay attention to 
 it. You just have to get this game, get it, install it and enjoy it, is all I have to say. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scotch69
Rating: 7.1
Date: Nov 19, 2006 7:28 pm PT
Review:  Medal of Honor: Pacific Assault was great and much as it was frustrating. There were many instances 
 where it seemed you only had one way to complete an objective and straying would cause instant 
 death. This extended the life of the game, but made me feel like just get it over with and move 
 on to the next game. The music was good, the graphics were good and various settings were excellent. 
 The load times were very long, the weapons (which were probably how it really was) were varied, 
 but it seemed like I had the wrong weapon for the current situation. It did feel good to finally 
 complete missions, leading to the completion of the game, but it was a lot of work and effort, 
 which did make it feel like I really did accomplish something. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedneckGamer87
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 12, 2006 7:36 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: In this game you start off at Pearl Habour while the Japanese are boming it. So you start 
 off defeding the habour and such. After you go though diffrent missions fighing on diffrent islands 
 and raiding japanese bases in the jungle. The fire fight can be pretty intence and the Japanese 
 solders would accually charge up at you with there bayonets and swords sometimes while your reloading 
 and you will be going **** **** Also there is ther mission where you get to control a plane and 
 take out a few other planes and ships. Also There are no health packs so you are hevealy dependent 
 on your med person in your squad to heal you and you can Issue basic orders like Brothers in arms 
 but you don't really use it that much.
  
  Graphics: Even though this game out in 2004 the graphics still look great and look very nice to 
 look at. The lighting is beutiful and the everything from the water to the faces of the soldiers 
 are very detailed.
  
  Sound: The sound is very good, The Voice acting is well done and the sound of the guns fireing 
 and the artilery fireing sound very real expecally if you have surrond sound.
  
  Value: There is great replay value to the game, I found I played this game several times though 
 and really enjoyed it and after your done that there is a fun multiplayer part though there are 
 limited maps. There are differnt modes in the multiplaer section of the game, There is capture 
 the flag, team and free for all death match and search and destory.
  
  All in all this is a great game and I think is one of the best in the series. There should be more 
 games set in Asia and around the pacifc because the video game market is really lacking in World 
 War Two set in Asia I give this game 9 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lamx30108200
Rating: 7.9
Date: Nov 5, 2006 6:50 pm PT
Review:  Like every MOH, this game is full of breathtaking moments, but at the end, I didn't had that wow 
 feeling that I had when I first played allied assault. Gameplay:
  
  Intense firefights in the jungle, lots of enemies, squad with you all the time and you can give 
 them orders (usually, they do what you say) . What I really liked was the blurring effect when I 
 was using the fix machine guns. It really immersed me during firefights. Overall, the levels are 
 pretty much all the same... you walk in the jungle and enemies pop from the bushes... but there's 
 couple ones that blew me away (pearl harbor = the best one, the one in a plane was pretty cool 
 too... it changed from the overall lookalike levels) .
  The story was a part of this game that I was impressed by... considering a MOH game. The ones before 
 were almost non-existent.. you had to go threw the objectives and that was about it. But in this 
 one, you begin in the military camp and you meet some guys that will fight on your side for the 
 rest of the game... during cut-scene, you learn more on your brothers in arms and it just make the 
 story more entertaining. Graphics:
  great back in 2004 but not amazing.... nice environments
  
  Sound:
  Like every MOH game, the 
 sound is perfect from the sound effects (gunshot, bullets flying around, explosions) to the music, 
 to the voice acting, MOH just know how the make a game sound like no other game can.
  
  Value:
  I give this game a 6 on this part because of the repetitiveness of the levels and the 
 gameplay that deliver a solid fps but nothing really new from the previous MOH games..... Also, 
 I experienced some A. I. bugs and several aiming bugs which altered the fun factor during intense 
 battles.
  
  Overall, a good MOH game but I was expecting more from a sequel of one of my favorite game of all 
 time. My specs:
  
  P4 HT 3,4 ghz
  ATI radeon X850XT PE
  2 gig Ram
  Sound blaster audigy 2 ZS 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DanDare007
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 18, 2006 4:05 pm PT
Review:  Since its arguably rushed release date and the resulting lack of polish , this game has received 
 a huge degree of criticism all over the internet (including here) . So I bought this game, and I 
 am very glad that I did. In my opinion, the game succeeds in creating the all-important effect 
 of atmosphere rather well, with intense fire fights accompanied by an epic-sounding music score 
 that serve to create some engrossing episodes that are truly enjoyable. As for the strange accuracy 
 problems with rifles, along with surprisingly weak stopping power that many reviews point out, 
 such incidents do indeed occur, but these are rare and vary from weapon to weapon (besides, every 
 time a review mentions this about a FPS - as they so often do - it is ALWAYS exaggerated, and the 
 same is true in this case) . As for the bad visual graphics and the ludicrous demands on system 
 resources, this sadly has some truth in it. However, unlike most people who just complain, the 
 frame rate pretty much never drops below 40fps on the game with details on high. I am not making 
 any accusations when I say this, I just want to give people a benchmark from which to compare before 
 they buy, (which is what I look for in a review) . Anyway this game is DEFINITLY worth getting, 
 and if you think you can run the game successfully, then by all means just buy it, It is totally 
 worth getting!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shooter94
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 21, 2006 3:20 pm PT
Review:  Pacific Assault
  Lets face it, MOH is one of the best, besides doom, fps franchises ever. From their first titles 
 for the PS1 (I loved underground) to the GBA (infiltrator is excellent) to the PC and PS3, these 
 titles always have excellent first-person action, super music, good graphics and lots of enemies 
 to shoot up. For some reason Ive just always enjoyed these games more than the Call of Duty ones. 
 Im wondering when a PSP title for MOH is going to come out. Theres just something satisfying 
 about defeating enemies from past wars and being historically immersed in the game action. Of course 
 my favorites are the ones where you shoot up Nazis, but shooting up others is almost as fun. So 
 here goes:
  Gameplay: very solid wsad and mouse controls
  Graphics: excellent
  Sound: the usual well orchestarted music that accompanies the MOH franchise
  Value: pricey
 
  Reviewer's tilt: high cuz i likes the FPS games 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MallratsJaySB
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 19, 2006 2:26 pm PT
Review:  The latest installment in the Medal of Honor series continues to set groundbreaking design and 
 sound while mixing amazing moments that no gamer will ever forget, but unfortunately the game gets 
 very repetitive. I've been playing the Medal of Honor games since the original back on the first 
 Playstation. I loved that one and loved the sequel Underground. Afterwards, Allied Assault and 
 Frontline graced my presence and I loved them both dearly. The series then had a downfall with 
 Allied Assault's expansion packs, Spearhead and Breakthrough. The expansions were still good, but 
 the Medal of Honor series needed a revamping, or a re-imagining of some sort. Although this game 
 fails to deliver what I hoped the re-imagining would be like, it still offers some incredibly tense 
 and emotional moments.
  
  The gameplay is exactly like every other Medal of Honor game, so if you've played those you should 
 know exactly what you're doing. You have 3 or 4 main guns, some grenades, satchels, binoculars, 
 etc., and you must take down your enemies in a grand fashion. The only difference is that this 
 time, you have a squad with you. In the other games, there were moments where you'd have some allies 
 with you, but in this game, they are always there with you. They never leave. SPOILERS. The only 
 problem with this part of the game though is that, if I remember correctly, none of them die. If 
 the developers are trying to get me to feel the emotional feelings that those soldiers undoubtedly 
 did during the war, then they need to create a bond between everybody, which they did, and then 
 proceed to kill some of them off. It would have helped the story out a lot, but it is still a rather 
 good story regardless of that major shortcoming. END SPOILERS.
  
  Instead of Germans, this game's focus is around the Japanese including unforgettable events in 
 our history such as Pearl Harbor. The Pearl Harbor scenario in this game is breathtaking. At the 
 beginning, you are just cruising around in a car with a higher upper telling you how things work 
 around there when all Hell breaks loose. Explosions are everywhere, people are screaming and dying 
 all around you. It's up to you to stop the onslaught of the Japanese with help from your friends. 
 It's amazing and looks great. But like the Gamespot review said, it's very hard to get a stable 
 framerate out of this game. During intense moments such as these (which there are many) , the game 
 starts chugging and it completely takes you out of the experience. I wouldn't say it ruins the 
 game, but if this problem didn't exist, this game's score would be much higher all around. Another 
 problem is the extreme repetition. There are moments in this game when you will be running through 
 very long levels in a jungle or a stream and enemies pop up out of nowhere. It usually consists 
 of run, stop, shoot, repeat, but the track shooting missions and squad tactics thankfully help 
 cover this up a little bit. My only other problem that I encountered was a very bad glitch that 
 made me drop my score of the gameplay down to 7. One the last level, or perhaps the one before, 
 you must run your way through trenches while dodging gunners up ahead and go through the door at 
 the end. During this, enemies are supposed to drop down from the left, but it didn't happen and 
 the door doesn't open until after you kill them. I would constantly run back and forth trying to 
 trigger them, but it never worked. I thought maybe I had to kill everybody else so I ran all the 
 way back through the level, but nobody was there. After the 7th or 8th try it worked, but this 
 glitch ruined my perception of the game and made it mediocre instead of another great WWII shooter.
 
  
  The graphics are rather good, but not as good as they should be. The explosions look gorgeous and 
 the water affects are astounding most of the time. But the character models are blocky and aren't 
 nearly as impressive. I guess to have amazing effects on some things, you must sacrifice the details 
 on others, but there's no denying that there are flaws in the graphics department. One positive 
 aspect is that there is finally some blood in the game. If you nail a good head shot, you may notice 
 a splatter of blood, which helps the realism of the game, which a game of this type desperately 
 needs. There was no blood in the other games and it hurt the overall quality, but still the Medal 
 of Honor series has always looked great, even back on the Playstation, but this game fails to deliver 
 in some cases.
  
  The sound is again absolutely perfect. The Medal of Honor team has always known how to create authentic 
 battle sounds. I've never felt like I've been in a war more than I have in this game. The guns 
 sound fierce, loud, and effective. The explosions are amazing and will make your heart skip a beat 
 every time. It will literally give you a startle when you're walking up a beach and the ship next 
 to you blows up or a mortar goes off in front of you. It's awesome and sounds great. The voice 
 acting is also surprisingly good. The other games haven't had much voice acting besides the pep 
 talk you got before your missions, but this game actually has cutscenes and the voice actors bring 
 their characters to life with astounding proficiency. The cries and death screams in game are also 
 noteworthy and sound great, but also saddening at the same time.
  
  I've said this before a million times, but I'll say it again. Every time I play a Medal of Honor 
 game, I come out of it with a new found respect for the people that died for our country. They 
 were willing to lay down their lives so we could have the freedoms that we have today and I am 
 grateful for that. It's remarkable how when it comes down to it, a person can muster up the courage 
 to participate in something as frightening as war and this game makes sure you know that. Medal 
 of Honor Pacific Assault is a powerful game that makes you appreciate what the soldiers did for 
 us, but without the gameplay leaping forward into something new, this game remains somewhat stale 
 and very repetitive when compared to other shooters. But if you love this series, Medal of Honor 
 Pacific Assault surely will not disappoint. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JOE714
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 11, 2006 12:39 pm PT
Review:  I played Pacific Assault right at the very end of a months-long WWII shooter binge that encompassed 
 everything from Beyond Normandy to Call of Duty: United Offensive. By then, I was a bit tired of 
 the Second World War formula, with its operatic battle sets and relatively primitive weaponry. 
 I was still waiting for Tribes: Vengeance to hit the bargain bin and for Half-Life 2 to actually 
 see the light of day, so a quick sci-fi intermission before the next Normandy-adjacent slugfest 
 wasnt in the offing. Fortunately, I was pleasantly surprised to find that fighting along the Rim 
 was just different enough from the overplayed war shooters set in Europe to make Pacific Assault 
 feel like an all-new experience.
  
  As mentioned in a few other reviews, the style of fighting found in PA is closely akin to the guerilla 
 warfare of Vietcong. In fact, the Lunga River excursion in the former was strongly reminiscent 
 of the streambed trek toward the Bahnar village in the latter title. Both games limited the players 
 access to magic medipacks and required the time-honored practice of spray-and-pray assaults just 
 for modest gains in jungle real estate. All of this is not to say that the gameplay model advanced 
 by the Allied Assault trilogy is flawed, but that I was ready for a change and PA delivered in 
 spades.
  
  Speaking of the slow, cautious Lunga River jaunt: the pacing in Pacific Assault was superb. Missions 
 spent creeping from tree to rock to trench while trying to set a charge on well-guarded bamboo 
 towers were peppered with massive and loud set pieces like the Henderson Field ruction or the legendary 
 nightmare that was Pearl Harbor. I found myself struck dumb on the deck of the West Virginia, watching 
 as hundreds of Japanese Zeroes and Vals darkened the skies over Hawaii. The animation of the fixed-gun 
 sequences in that level was amazing; the immersive water and smoke effects were a gratifying reward 
 for each downed plane, as well as a strong incentive to protect each targeted vessel. The Tarawa 
 landing was equally astonishing, especially as a testament to the games excellent squad-based 
 battle tactics.
  
  Aside from a few framerate issues I encountered while tromping through the thick Guadalcanal jungle 
 (which were later eliminated with a video board upgrade) , Pacific Assault was a technical and cinematic 
 triumph for both WWII-based games and shooters in general. The game rekindled my fascination with 
 the heavy metal melees that I experienced almost to the point of overkill in the European theater 
 by mixing a unique setting with a revolutionary degree of depth and detail. I recommend Pacific 
 Assault for anyone who wants more out of a game than twitch-intensive arcade mechanics, regardless 
 of whether they have any interest in the actual historical events of the Far Eastern front. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lonrot
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 10, 2006 10:04 am PT
Review:  Never though Call of Duty Series would turn this type of games to dust, Medal of Honor Pacific 
 Assault is all a dejavu experiences. Why? Because you have seen all this before, many, many times.
 
  
  The game is so boring, so tedious and stupid at times, the enemies AI is very dissapointing, they 
 don't think just act like mindless bees, they attack like they had some kind of euforia disseas 
 and they all are about to die. They game ads some interesting elements, but sadly it all make the 
 game worst. Here you can't die if your health reaches to zero, you will have to wait till a medic 
 soldier come to you and save your ass with first aid suplies, but the bad thing is that almost 
 never you I'll get assistance and, it's more likely you will die in a few seconds or magically 
 an enemy solider will popup in the screen and kill you.
  
  The Loading times take ages just to load a few maps all with the same landscapes, same solidiers 
 and same enemy bases. If you do quick load when you die the load period will take incredible long 
 time too.
  
  The Graphics are very crappy, and even though it needs very high PC specs it haven't changed that 
 much since the Allied Assault back in 2002. If you try 2.0 Shaders you will see prettier graphics 
 but you will get in exchange a slow framerate and more loading times.
  
  This one of the most unrealistic games I have ever played. And I don't recomend it to anyone who 
 have played good shooters before.
  
  If you have PlayStation 2 or XBOX grab the Medal of Honor: Frontline that's the best on series. 
 It's older but even the 2002 graphics supass this piece of crap, and with big difference. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jubileedoo
Rating: 4.3
Date: Sep 10, 2006 4:34 pm PT
Review:  Now, don't get me wrong. I have played and replayed its three predecessors in the series and found 
 them to be quite fun as first-person shooter games go. However, so many things seem to have been 
 changed when this entry came along that it seemed to take all the fun right out of it. Now, riddle 
 me this: When you have something as well-written as the first three, and the execution is almost 
 flawless, why would you change it? How I could be so far off is a mystery. I've read thru several 
 walk-throughs and restarted Pacific Assault again and again, only to end up dying at the same spot 
 (on the airfield, and I'm sure you all know at precisely which point...) However, it's not so much 
 the dying at the same point that gets me. It's how laborious it is just getting to that point. 
 And each level seems repetitious and lacking ingenuity. It was so frustrating that I finally gave 
 up and put the game away. I don't do that very often. This entry seemed to be poorly written, the 
 movement of my character was stilted, the way in which I'm forced to format the keyboard seems 
 to lack logic when compared with previous entries. And there are too many keyboard commands to 
 remember, making me want to shout, "KEEP IT SIMPLE, STUPID!!" Why would the creators do this to 
 a perfectly good game??? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halofreak3487
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 18, 2006 9:03 pm PT
Review:  The action in this game can be somtimes very intense, that you have no idea where you are going, 
 at least thats what happened to me, this is one of the first PC FPS games that i've played in a 
 loong time.
  
  Graphics: The graphics in this game are very detailed, but to me it didn't look like that it was 
 done, their isn't any slowness or anything, but the faces and animations sometimes look a little 
 funny, a lot of the time a unit would walk right through me and we would be stuck for a minute 
 or so, and this also effected my gameplay as i was fighting the enemy again i was intercepted and 
 cut-off, and was about to die.
  
  Sound: The sound has probably got to be the best part about this game, players/AI screaming accross 
 the battlefield, the orchastral music everytime their is a loading time, and all the sound such 
 as the guns, gernades, truckes, boats, and everything i forgot to mention is done perfectly.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is decent, their are to many loading times, and sometimes the AI is 
 messed up, like they run into trees or are trying to get through the door, but their running towards 
 the wall, i had a lot of problems with the controls, for some reason my crouch button never worked, 
 sometimes my gernade's wouldn't work, i would give this game a perfect 10 out of 10 if everything 
 was fixed (or at least a patch) . 
  
  This is also one of the first World War 2 games that does not take place in Germany, as the name 
 says 'Pacific Assualt' you fight in Japan, which saved this game from getting a lower score. I 
 also love the award system in this game, depending in what level you are in you'll earn different 
 medals for different things, like in boot camp i recieved an award for completing all the objectives, 
 and (at least) i felt like a soldier. 
  
  One other problem with this game is the fact that the jungle fighting can get pretty boring after 
 awhile. So far for me it's been go through this way - loading time - Make your way and destroy 
 the gun turret - loading time... Just repeats for awhile.
  
  However this game is one that i would pickup for anybody, it's fun and exciting, has a lot of clips 
 such as Pearl Harbor, and all these other historical events in history.
  
  Soldier you have your duty! Now Move Out!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soad_kickass
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 6, 2006 6:43 pm PT
Review:  Previous Medal of Honor (MoH) games were simply one man wrecking crews, where you are one guy and 
 kill maybe 40 people in a level. You had allies with you sometimes, but they never really shot 
 accurately, and were useless. PA takes this in a new direction. You play as Tommy Conlin in PA, 
 and as him you will fight through Boot Camp, shoot planes at Pearl Harbor, raid Makin Atoll, defend 
 an airfield at Guadalcanal, and storm the beachs of Tarawa Atoll. Also, you are given some guys 
 to help you throughout the game (with the exception of Pearl Harbor) .
  
  You can order your team to assemble, move forward, fall back, or provide cover fire. You can literally 
 sit back and watch as your allies shoot the enemy to death, and this brings out the game's main 
 flaw: your allies can never die. If shot enough, they will be immobilized, then you have to pick 
 them up and carry them to the medic in your team. This also is useless, because the medic automatically 
 runs to him anyway (unless he can't reach him) . The medic can heal himself, don't worry. You can 
 have him heal you up to 5 times a level. If you are very badly injured, the medic sometimes throws 
 up. Because of this new system, EA has taken out health packs, for the most part. They are very 
 rarely found in the game. Also, guns can no longer use a different gun's bullets. If you killed 
 a German in Allied Assault with an M1 Garand, you could pick up his ammo (if he had a Mauser) . You 
 can no longer do this in PA. Every time you kill an enemy, you can pick up his weapon, so you will 
 probably change weapons a lot. 
  
  EA put two different versions of the Thompson in the game, one with the cylinder shaped magazine 
 that can hold 50 rounds, and the stick magazine Thompson, returning from Allied Assault. Also, 
 you can now aim through the iron sights on your gun, and makes the shot much more accurate. One 
 thing I noticed is a snail can reload a gun faster then Conlin, he reloads very slow. Even with 
 the new team system, Pacific Assault brings back the same gameplay as the older MoH games. Get 
 from point A to Point B, killing any Axis force along the way, blow up something, redezvous with 
 allied forces at point B.
  
  The graphics in this game were just "WOW". People have complained that the graphics in this game 
 were horrible...... Actually, it could be because of many factors: 1) Your PC isn't that good 2) Your 
 playing the demo 3) You are color-blind. With that aside, the jungle/beach hybrid environments 
 were well rendered and constructed. Though at times the jungle setting was tedious, the lush, thick 
 bushes and tall palm trees added variety to the terrain. The character models were also excellent. 
 American and Japanese soldiers are wearing authentic USMC uniforms, while Japanese soldiers are 
 wearing the jungle camo they usually wear.
  
  Not much to say about the sound, it's excellent.
  Voice acting is very, very professional. The 
 voice acting almost never falls flat, except once or twice. From the voice acting alone you can 
 tell the desperation or joy in the character. And it's always good to have an authentic foreign 
 language, too.
  In this game, bullets sound like bullets, not pebbles, and explosions sound real, not faked. Each 
 gun, as expected in a war game, makes a different noise when shot and you can easily distinguish 
 them. The explosions sound very realy and the screen even "shakes" when there is an explosion close 
 by to give it a better, but sometimes annoying, effect.
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: maubecerra
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 1, 2006 6:51 pm PT
Review:  It is definitely a good game, the graphics are great and the sound is very realistic. I am not 
 much into war games but this one is very well designed and the history portrayed tries to be as 
 realistic and accurate as possible; the game has very interesting historic flicks and information 
 about the war so it is even educational at some point.
  The learning curve is about 30 minutes and it is easy to play, all you need to do is pass the first 
 training mission in the boot camp and you are ready to go with all the basic knowledge. 
  The only negative aspect that I found is that the game at some point (of course after hours of 
 playing and once you get familiar with the basic strategies) gets a little bit too easy. In any 
 case I would recommend this game thumbs up!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: asian_marine
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 15, 2006 7:49 pm PT
Review:  Finally, a MOH game thats not based in the European Theater. 
  
  Grpahics- The graphics in this game are awesome, although you can tell it is a game, they are reallly, 
 really good. Images are sharp and crips. When fighting in the jungle and water it looks so real, 
 only the men in the game make it look fake.
  
  Sound- You actually feel like you're in the game. I recommend having a X-Fi card to fully enjoy 
 the sourround sound for the game.
  
  Gameplay- The really cool thing in this game is you actually go to boot camp to become a marine. 
 it's really a rewarding experience. The gameplay is not really any different from any other FPS 
 game, and it only takes about 45- an hour to get the hang of the game.
  
  The thrill of the game was not fighting at Pearl Harbor, but on Bloody Ridge. When you have to 
 hold off an onslaught of Japs charging at you. All in all a great game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: usmc123456
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 12, 2006 10:24 am PT
Review:  
  This game is by far the best game in the Medal of Honor series for the time the graphics are Great, 
 gameplay is fun and unlike the other MOH games it's more squad based, your never alone. It's somewhat 
 historically accurate, like during the Makin Atoll they M 1 Carbines same with Gudalcanal, in Tarawa 
 they did and then they show them with springfields. But the events are correct and cinimatics awesome. 
 the gameplay is fantastic and it's sortive like BIA you give your squad orders. Plus if your tired 
 of WWII games this game is in a way for you because your not stuck in Europe anymore now your in 
 the Pacific. The sound is fantastic if somtehing explodes it sounds so cool. It has pretty good 
 multiplayer where you can play as the Japanese or the Marines with classes and all that Jazz. This 
 is a must buy. Plus it's only ten bucks at Target, well at least where I live. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nightharvest
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 28, 2006 8:44 pm PT
Review:  The Medal of Honor series was a benchmark for the WWII FPS genre that provided hours of thrilling 
 run and gun action through the European theatre of war. However it seemed that critics and gamers 
 alike had just about had enough of Medal of Honor by the time the Breakthrough expansion pack was 
 released, which left the developers with challenges for continuing the series. Medal of Honor : 
 Pacific Assault (MOH : PA) is the response and when it hits its stride it provides a quality gaming 
 experience in a fresh environment, being the dense jungle of the Pacific Islands. However, the 
 closing missions are both frustrating and less than satisfying and as good as it is at its best, 
 the game is dragged down by this closing impression.
  
  In MOH : PA you assume the role of Private Conlin and will experience battle in many arenas of 
 the Pacific Theatre. You will also experience the daring raid on Pearl Harbor and even do a mandatory 
 (if a little annoying) stint in boot camp. The squad based approach that was experimented with 
 in the later Medal of Honor expansion packs is in full swing with MOH : PA and it is a very rare 
 occurrence where you'll be 'going it alone'. The game is objective based, which are easily accessed 
 through the interface, however there are hidden objectives that can be completed for bonuses and 
 'hero moments'. Some of these do require a bit of exploration and deviation from the main objectives, 
 but are not compulsory (or in my view, essential) . Missions involved the elimination of targets 
 and installations, holding territory and at times resisting an offensive. The foe is the imperial 
 Japanese army, who provides a competitive and at times surprising level of AI, and are a refreshing 
 change from mixing it with the Germans.
  
  The game storyline itself is not progressive and the missions are not linked, however the game 
 does try to make a story with the squad members, whom you spend most of your time with and who 
 have distinct personalities. While it does achieve this to some extent, it is something that can 
 be taken or left. However, the squad 'feel' is well and truly achieved in the heat of the battle. 
 An interesting twist is the way the opening mission is also the closing mission and that does provide 
 some logical development and closure to the opening mayhem of the game.
  
  The graphics are of a very high quality, which adds to a sense of realism to game. The environments 
 are not only a refreshing change from the traditional WWII theatre, but are wonderfully created 
 providing an tense and at times claustrophobic atmosphere. The jungle and villages looks realistic 
 and believable. Beaches, water, cliffs and high trees and bushes are in abundances and created 
 with an appropriate attention to detail. There are missions at both and day and night and these 
 provide good alternatives in display. Your squad and enemies look realistic and the physics / movements 
 of them adds to the element of realism. The variety of weapons look spot-on and perhaps the only 
 enjoyable part of the flying missions is how good it looks. A lot of time has been invested into 
 making MOH : PA look good - and it certainly does, especially on the highest display settings. 
 The price for this however, is exceedingly long load-times and at times inconsistent frame rates. 
 But it looks fantastic, no doubt about it.
  
  The sound, as with all of the Medal of Honor games, is exemplary. The game using the tried and 
 tested classical soundtrack, which works just fine and the sound effects as you creep through jungle 
 are suitably atmospheric. Explosions and the firefight effects are realistic and very crisp indeed 
 as is the use of voice acting, both with your squad and the Japanese. With a good set of speakers 
 or headphones, the sound helps elevate the gaming experience. However, I did get a bit tired of 
 hearing my squad mates compliment my every shot, even when at times it took three or four shots 
 to kill and enemy due to my obvious inaccuracy.
  
  The gameplay, however, is a mixed bag. Appropriate credit should be given to the developers for 
 trying some new things and while some of these work, some do not. The squad approach is on the 
 whole very effective, and these guys do hold their own (and in fact, never die) . Why it also works 
 well is that your enemy uses similar squad tactics against you and this sets the scene for some 
 particularly memorable battles. The enemy are ruthless close-up, charging at you with bayonets 
 - leaving you in all sorts of trouble if you have to reload (which takes a realistically longer 
 time to do than in standard FPS games) . The atmosphere creates many an opportunity for ambushes 
 and while you always expect them, some still come as a surprise. It is in the jungles and the 'traditional' 
 combat where the gameplay works best. The health system is an interesting variation - instead of 
 health packs to replenish your strength, you are required to call the medic, who only has a limited 
 amount of bandages per mission. This adds a bit of realism to the game. 
  
  There are some excellent defensive scenarios where you need to hold off the enemy onslaught, with 
 the Bloody Ridge missions being a particular highlight. There is a good variety of 'ranged' combat, 
 with a mixture of distance 'sniper' style combat with the 'in-your-face' skirmishes. The AI is 
 generally very good and sets up the game for some quality contests, but there are occasions that 
 both your squad and enemies inexplicably peel of from the battles. There are a couple of clipping 
 issues on occasions and at times, you team-mates will block your path - and it is always you who 
 takes the fire in this instance. However, when on the ground, the gameplay works.
  
  However, in the air is a completely different story. The Flyboys mission, where you commandeer 
 a plane and engage in dogfights and bombing raids, is out of place and very frustrating. Control 
 is awkward, objectives are difficult and it takes a long time to get through this very frustrating 
 penultimate level. Not being a fan of flying games just made it more aggravating for me (I even 
 refuse to buy the seminal IL-2 Sturmovik for AUD$7) and it was a great source of relief, rather 
 than satisfaction or achievement, when I finally got through this mission. While one could argue 
 it was worth trying something different - it did not work. This is an FPS first and foremost, and 
 the mission felt out of place.
  
  Perhaps as a result of this, the last mission on Tarawa also felt tired and not as well constructed 
 as the previous missions. I had to reload a couple of times due to bugs (one where the team was 
 waiting for me to blow up a bunker but the explosives were not there) and there was an element 
 of luck in getting through. I was also glad when this was over, which being the last mission - 
 is not the preferred emotion. It is a pity that this is how the game ends, as it really does provide 
 some quality gameplay before these two missions.
  
  Also, the opening mission in Pearl Harbour was a mixed bag, and shooting planes out of the sky 
 with machine is not exactly realistic. But this mission was big on 'Hollywood' style atmosphere, 
 and was superb in both a graphical and audio sense.
  
  The game took me about 12-14 hours to compete on the default level which is about normal. There 
 is scope to revisit missions to complete hidden objectives and obtain hero moments, and there also 
 a well regarded multiplayer component.
  
  The game cost $AUS 25 which was purchased on sale. I think that that is just about right. If you 
 can get past the frustrating moments you will experience some thrilling, atmospheric and technically 
 adept gameplay.
  
  It is a shame that MOH : PA ends with its weaker elements and missions as this is the lasting impression 
 you are left with. I was actually glad it was over, which is not how I wanted to feel. However, 
 the missions through the middle of the game are the highlights and its saving grace. MOH : PA is 
 flawed genius - brilliant at its best and downright frustrating at its worst. An enigmatic beast 
 of a game that is worth the attention of any serious gamer.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ObviousMan
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 24, 2006 9:28 pm PT
Review:  Even though I am giving this a score of 6.2, please realize that this is still a decent game well 
 worth the $20 that it goes for now. 
  
  Gameplay: This is the biggest area in which this game suffers. First of all, the feel of the game 
 just isn't right. While all the standard fps controlls and such are intact, the firefights in this 
 game just don't seem right. One major reason for this is that the weapons are completely imbalanced. 
 Never, and I mean never chose a Japanese weapon over an American weapon because they are only about 
 half as powerfull. Second of all, the down the barel aiming system in this game just plain sucks. 
 Call of Duty and BF2 have perfected this system, but this game lacks it. When aiming down the barel 
 you feel less acurate, and more of the screen is blocked out than should be. This is one first 
 person shooter that takes the fun out of shooting. A high point of the gameplay is that the enemy 
 AI is very skilled, even on the lower difficulty levels. 
  
  Graphics: When this game was released it was billed as having some of the best graphics out there. 
 However, the fact is, it is far surpassed by other games. This game is set in a jungle environment 
 and the grass and trees look like blocks. I can't be sure of it but I believe this game is based 
 around the Quake 3 engine, and although it has served many games well, it needs to be put out of 
 its misery.
  
  Sound: Nothing to complain about in regards to the sound, but it isn't anything flashy. The makers 
 of this game need to take a good hard look at the original Call of Duty to see how a WWII game 
 should sound. 
  
  Value: Right now this game is selling for just $20 so the value is very high. Even though it suffers 
 from some gameplay issues and tired graphics it is still a good buy.
  
  I have to say, coming from playing MOHAA, I was expecting more from this game. Allied Assualt really 
 started the WWII shooters genera that we know today, and it is a pitty that gameplay could not 
 transfer over. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monkeyboy070
Rating: 3
Date: Jun 21, 2006 10:09 pm PT
Review:  I'm a WWII shooter fan. COD was a wonder to me, just awesome. Only thing better then a good WWII 
 FPS is halo. Anyway, I bought this in about 2005 and installed it once, tried it for about 2 levels 
 and uninstalled it and put it away. Thought it was that boring. Now just recently I reinstalled 
 it and played much further, thinking maybe it started of slow. Unfortuanately you only get a descent 
 set of graphics and a reasonable story with this game. Visceral game play is the same, shoot the 
 japenese, move on, shoot them again, move on. There isn't any real challenge to it. The accuracy 
 of the weapons can be horrible even on rifles ans snipers. The some of the objects your enemies 
 hide behind have invisible barriers riding inches above them, and sometimes then one you hide behind 
 does too. Unbelievable! COD didn't even have this! It is a year older! MPlayer isn't that great 
 either because you must suffer through the clunky feel and horrible physics. It is always great 
 to shoot to guys, the second one falls on top of the first one and it bounches six feet in the 
 air. Mysterious magical jumping bullets! To go with all of this, even though it does have nice 
 graphics DOOM 3 and the source engine (half life 2, Counterstrike 2 and even HL2 episode 1) run 
 better! If medal of honor Airborn runs like this, I might just never buy another MOH games again! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Battleer
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 11, 2006 2:14 pm PT
Review:  Medal of Honor Pacific Assault
  
  On October 31 1999 a game was released that was loved by many it was one of the first WW 2 games 
 ever made it was Medal of Honor. EA games had created a masterpiece with great graphics and stunning 
 gameplay EA started releasing more MOH games after the success of the first. After they had released 
 a few for the consoles EA decided to try a new platform Medal of Honor was headed for the PC. 
 Medal of Honor Allied Assault was the result, they had created another masterpiece it showed what 
 a PC could do and incorporated some of the best sound ever heard in a game. Now after 3 years and 
 2 expansions EA finally released another game for the personal computer and this is the review 
 to tell you about it.
  
  
  It is most diffidently not an understatement when I say there are tons of WW 2 games just to name 
 a few Call of Duty Brothers in Arms and the Battlefield series (excluding Battlefield 2) and many 
 more make a rather large statement in the genre. So how can a game like Medal of Honor Pacific 
 Assault stand out you ask with fun and innovative gameplay some top of the line graphics (as of 
 November 4 2004) and great sound.
  
  
  STORY
  
  In MOH PA your character is a drafted recruit named Tommy Conlin, and you play through his life 
 in the marines during WW 2. There arent many twists or turns in the story but there are some very 
 well scripted cutscenes of the events, which progressed during the war. Once in a while Tommy will 
 write letters to his family back home but they dont talk about that very much and nothing really 
 comes from it, it just adds an interesting premise to the game.
  
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  One thing MOH has never done is fight a foe besides the Germans but PA has broken from the formula. 
 From the name you can tell PA is accruing in the pacific and the marines are taking the fight to 
 the Japanese making for some pretty cool jungle locals. MOH has been known for its great action 
 packed gamplay and Pacific Assault is no exception the first level takes you through the frigid 
 waters of Tarawa Atoll as your being shot at on all sides by machine guns, boats, and Japanese 
 infantry on the docks ahead. On top of that intense firefights break out in numerous levels as 
 you man machine gun turrets and even fly a plane making for a very intense game. Although PA does 
 have its downsides in the Gameplay department it is a very hard game even to the point of frustrating 
 some players enough to stop playing. The enemies are very easy to kill but the game puts you in 
 some must complete objectives scenarios. Such as one level were you have to destroy enemy planes 
 with an AA gun although you dont know who is friendly and who is the enemy resulting in to many 
 friendly kills and loss of the mission. PA is a very trial and error type of game and is very frustrating 
 at times. The controls are average at best on PA, in the first person they can be quite good with 
 a standard keyboard and mouse but the plane missions and manning the AA guns can be very frustrating 
 as they are quite unresponsive and just plain hard to use. Overall the gameplay is very good and 
 can be incredibly fun, after you get passed some difficult times and a somewhat faulty control 
 scheme.
  
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  When I first turned on my machine I was a bit worried about the performance this game would give 
 me with a mainstream video card the 7600 gs even though it is about a year an a half old. However 
 I was quite happy when I turned on the game as it ran very well at 1024 by 768 with full settings 
 no aa af, but as I progressed through the game I noticed some problems even though I was getting 
 60+ frames in most of the game. Once in a while I would get to a level that would bog down my video 
 card to about 15 to 20 frames causing quite a bit of lag, but the funny thing was it wasnt even 
 an intense level it was just a sneaking type level with minimal enemies. Turns out PA wasnt built 
 on a very nice engine resulting in lots of slow downs with older video cards and mainstream 
 products, but it was still very playable. The quality of the graphics are quite good, I was very 
 impressed by the weapons and the textures they looked very nice and still stand up very well to 
 todays standards and EA added some very cool blur effects as well. The physics engine on the other 
 hand is a different story the explosions look great but when you hit into boxs and items laying 
 on the ground they move in a jumpy pattern it almost looks as if your lagging but your getting 
 great frames. Also some of the bodies would clip through walls and such which took away a lot of 
 the realistic feel of the game which is really required for a good WW 2 game, fortunately however 
 these flaws didnt occur very often so they werent very much of a problem.
  
  
  SOUND
  
  The MOH series has always been known for its great sound and PA doesnt disgrace its name, 
 from the machine-guns to the Japanese infantry speaking real Japanese it all sounds great and is 
 very authentic mimicking the original s down to the letter. And the musics great to it truly immerses 
 you into the game and is very exciting and fun to listen to, at times I even found myself wishing 
 they made a soundtrack for it.
  
  
  VALUE
  
  With over eleven levels to complete and four difficulty settings I was bridging on thirty plus 
 hours on the single player, however the problems I mentioned earlier are a big factor in the value 
 of this game. Many players may end up giving up with the tremendous difficulty of the game and 
 only true fans will stick through it tell the end. There are four multiplayer modes available and 
 about seven maps, which are all quite fun to play, but EA had some major problems with its multiplayer 
 servers for PA when it first came out such as a severe mouse lag which rendered the game virtually 
 unplayable and some hacking problems. As a result PAs fan club diminished greatly and now is down 
 to about thirty players, but even though its small its still a great community and a blast to 
 talk with and just have fun.
  
  
  OVERALL
  
  So overall PA is a very intense and challenging game and very enjoyable for WW 2 fans and first 
 person shooter fans alike and at a low price of $19.99 you can't go wrong pick it up today. 8.5/10 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Col-Neil
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 11, 2006 5:48 am PT
Review:  Im a big fan, of fps games and espeicaly the Moh series, so when i got Pacific Assault it was fun 
 to play a game that wasnt an expansion for Allied Assault.
  
  Graphics:
  
  Well since i recently got a newer pc the graphics have been nothing short of excellent to watch 
 character detail and the background as well espeicaly the water but thats the thing with pc games 
 the better your specs the better the game will look
  
  Game play: 
  
  EA kept with the classic control system w, a, s, d and the mouse and the 1,2,3,4, my motto if its 
 not broke dont fix it so its easy to get into and shouldnt be to hard for veteran Moh players or 
 even people new to the game
  
  The action in game is brilliant your right there in the thick of it fighting the japanese army 
 in the jungles or on open ground and even in the air i hardly doubt you will get bored easily with 
 this game
  
  Sound: 
  
  Agian with pc games the better your hardware the more you will get out of your games and the sounds 
 and music in Pacific Assault are nothing short of spectacular you will be so jumpy when you hear 
 a noise you think the japs where coming to get you 
  
  Value:
  
  Well i got this game for only 4.99 so yeah this game is deffinaty worth buying 
  
  Overall: 
 
  
  if your a Moh fan this is a must have and even if your not its worth renting 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warmack1
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 18, 2006 10:33 am PT
Review:  In the latest installment of the series Medal of Honor Pacific Assault delivers fast paced gameplay 
 decent storyline and a nice variety of levels that you go thru. 
  
  The graphics in Pacific Assault are very well done. Lighting, shadows and particle effects are 
 very well done. The water in the game was some of the best to date when the game was released. 
 With very nice character molds and lush jungle to explore this game has all the eye candy you would 
 expect from a top of the line PC game. You can see because this is PC only, they did not have to 
 develop around the console hardware and then up convert like all other EA titles that are on both 
 the PC and console. Which make a huge difference in the actual graphics because they were not worried 
 about dumbing down the graphics to port over.
  
  The gameplay is very linear however and that does takeaway some of the fun of the game. You are 
 constantly told where to go and even if they didn't tell you where to go you would find it out 
 rather easily because of how linear the game is. The controls in the game work very well, and of 
 course they should as it is on the PC with your keyboard and mouse. There is not a real variety 
 of weapons as you pretty much use the same two guns the entire game.
  
  You will not find a very immersing or fulfilling on-line multiplayer experience here as it is just 
 merely ok. There is not much else to say about the multiplayer so I won't.
  
  Medal of Honor Pacific Assault will deliver at moments some great fast paced action moments worthy 
 of a movie, but the linear gameplay and less than exiting multiplayer the game just falls short 
 of one of the best WWII games every made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rukas_21
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 13, 2006 9:33 am PT
Review:  every part of the game is fantastic and the jungle ambient makes a great feeling. In this serie 
 the space is bigger and there is more terrain to explore. In the jungle there is the possibility 
 of making better ambushes to the enemy. The IA is good too. The sound is one of the best things 
 that this game has. Some of the views are breathtaking. The arsenal is great too but it could have 
 more variety of guns, knives, shotguns, snipers, bazookas, rifles... It relives some parts of the 
 vietnam and stuff. In conclusion, MOH: Pacific Assault is onde of the best games ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fecalproduction
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 14, 2006 6:10 am PT
Review:  Pacific Assault
  Lets face it, MOH is one of the best, besides doom, fps franchises ever. From their first titles 
 for the PS1 (I loved underground) to the GBA (infiltrator is excellent) to the PC and PS3, these 
 titles always have excellent first-person action, super music, good graphics and lots of enemies 
 to shoot up. For some reason Ive just always enjoyed these games more than the Call of Duty ones. 
 Im wondering when a PSP title for MOH is going to come out. Theres just something satisfying 
 about defeating enemies from past wars and being historically immersed in the game action. Of course 
 my favorites are the ones where you shoot up Nazis, but shooting up others is almost as fun. So 
 here goes:
  Gameplay: very solid wsad and mouse controls
  Graphics: excellent
  Sound: the usual well orchestarted music that accompanies the MOH franchise
  Value: pricey
 
  Reviewer's tilt: high cuz i likes the FPS games 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dilust
Rating: 4.5
Date: Apr 9, 2006 8:00 am PT
Review:  You all should excuse me for my bad English, I came from Italy.
  I still remember the first time I played MoH Allied Assault. It was my first experience with a 
 FPS. I loved it and replayed it many time. It became a standard of quality for me... then Call 
 of Duty arrived and all changed. The Activision product introduced a new cinematic expirience to 
 the gameplay and after an hard meditation I uninstalled MoHAA from my PC.
  When I hear the rumor about a new chapter of the Medal of Honor saga, taking place on the Pacific 
 war front , my faith reborn... the Pacific War and Japanese attack to Hawaii... It will be hard 
 to wait" I thinked.
  Then, the great day arrived but I discovered that the game I waited for a long time can not be 
 played on my old computer. The specifications are so high: 1.5Ghz processor, 512 MB RAM, 64MB videocard, 
 4 GB free HD space. "Damn I never play this game" I said.
  After a long time I won the jackpot and I was able to buy a new PC (3100+ AMD, 512 MB RAM, ATI 
 9800 256MB) and MoH Pacific Assault.
  So happy I installed the game and the 1.2 patch. I setted the option to the highest value and launch 
 the game but..... I received my first shock.... "What is this?" Call of duty has a more beautiful 
 graphic.... Pacific assault means Allied Assault if we make a comparisation. 
  My second shock regards the gameplay and arrives when I discovered that the missions are composed 
 by different stages with a minimal number of opponents: you kill 2-3 Japanise and the stage is 
 finished and a new stage is loading.... this take a lot of time. You spend a lot of time to die 
 too: your health bar arrives to 0, you naturally fall to the ground but you take about 10 seconds 
 to see the moon. Then the game will not immediately restart from the latest checkpoint: you should 
 wait a new loading early.
  All the missions are equal one to the other. You will be in a jungle scenario: you cannot see the 
 Japanise because they are camouflagued with the environment. This factor is not generated by the 
 EA artists that add foliage to the Japanise soldiers but from the bad graphic on screen: the shadow 
 are horripilant and you can not distinguish nothing at great distances.
  The new introduction in the gameplay remain my last faith: you are able control a squad like in 
 Brothers in Arms.... but finally i discovered that your comrades are incompetents and idiots, they 
 obstacle you in different ways: they stop your paths, they shot during a stealth actions, etc.
 
  I don't explored the MP section because this shock annihilate me.
  In conclusion this game has disappointed me a I dissuade everybody to purchase this game, except 
 to those people that are me unpleasant. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IcyGamer
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 4, 2006 10:51 am PT
Review:  In this game there is no lack of reality. It has very good graphics and a sheer sound typical to 
 arms. Earlier, when the game was edited (in 2004) , i considered it one of the worst war games of 
 the time. Only this year i changed my mind when my friend recommended and praised this game. Finally 
 i agreed to have a look at it and by now it is clear that actually this is one of the best war 
 games.
  The missions are all original and very exciting, playing is not annoying. Physics is also rather 
 good and A. I.'s are a bit wiser than in many other similar games. It's fine that if you don't hit 
 the enemy well enough, they remain lying on the ground and turning themselves from side to side 
 until you shoot him again or just leave him.
  The game enables, by transforming into the role of the hero, to go through one of the most inconsistent 
 battles of the second World War- the bombing of Pearl Harbor, when the Japanese planes attack the 
 US navy, and the player has to hit them by a machine gun before they bring themselves down on your 
 ship.
  Further on there takes place landing, where you have to shoot the enemies by making way in the 
 jungle and destroy their fuel supplies, and in addition save your pilot from the burning plane.
 
  Moving and rueling the character has made easy, which makes it convenient to pass the game. The 
 arsenal is quite good, the arms are normal and there is quite enough of ammunition.
  Musics is a bit poor, but this is compensated by videos filmed in a real war and switched into 
 the game, that bring you quickly back to the reality again.
  Finally it should be added that Pacific Assault can not compared with its predecessor Allied Assault, 
 which might be non-existent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rdhnightwolf
Rating: 4.7
Date: Apr 3, 2006 3:34 pm PT
Review:  And thats about it. The single player campaign is where this game is at. However I didn't buy this 
 thing for the single player aspect. I bought it for the multiplayer game. 
  
  Well, this game was a total letdown. The bugs in this game just destroyed it online. You'll be 
 lucky to find a decent server that lets you play without lag nowadays. I spent the extra money 
 on the DVD version and was not pleased. The only decent thing was the fact that I didn't have to 
 install a ton of CD's to get to the end of install.
  
  If you are looking for a good WWII shooter that has it all, both SP and MP. Get CoD2 and avoid 
 this like the plauge. EA, WTF were you thinking when you made this garbage? sheeesh. Poor patching 
 and no attempts to fix the game led me to drop this game like a bad habit. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: aspenmike
Rating: 3.5
Date: Mar 31, 2006 4:47 pm PT
Review:  This game is even lucky to be getting a 3.7 its to repeatitive and very boring. The weapon sounds 
 are very poor and graphics are the same as MOHAA (medal of honor allied assualt) The enemy Zeros 
 when shot down had almost no rag doll function and disapeared as soon as they hit the ground. This 
 game is the same as the other Medal of Honors nothing different exept the faces and the landscape. 
 Poor weapon sounds and the enemy was still brainless when played on hard. This was a let down the 
 other medal of honors were very fun to play accept this one. The only thing of value is the Directors 
 edition wich had accurate Intel on some things. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bouns__avi
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 30, 2006 3:04 pm PT
Review:  it is a reallly good game i would say this is a good game ! rabit sconk liver belt ann that is 
 smell ha ha i am just kidding you ha ha ha ha ha !!!!\
  yah you come on you kill your emenimes ya ya ha cool sure nit dose give me some water now oh my 
 gosh it is a fly go to japenes full of depot shpt with an aa gun . don't you think it is smillar 
 to the game call of duty yah ?????
  don't have magic is makin this game worst . under stood ? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vufor
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 24, 2006 4:13 am PT
Review:  MOH Pasific Assault is the game which develops the game industry in new and its own range. The 
 game has givven to the game development new ideas and story telling propose. In game continuing 
 cutscenes does not interrupt gamer from main story which is a brilliant game development strategy. 
 Player plays and sees all sight of the game environment. However, it depends on how all story connected 
 to each other and how actually it is done by developers. I mean you can watch or follow boring 
 cut-scenes in game which is does not make any sense or it is too long or etc..
  
  Graphicaly game have been improved to good level, and sound system and reality of war environment 
 has been simulated very professional. All this aspects of game makes it very enjoyable to play. 
 you are not just run and shoot, you live the live of the soldiers which had have an experience 
 of war siege and assault. Now MOH PA give your chance to fill that experience and take part on 
 rescue and counter assault operations to eliminate the enemy.
  
  Well, I hope you will enjoy it as I do!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: perlox
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 23, 2006 5:34 pm PT
Review:  I was quite surprised at how much ive been enjoying this game. I didnt expect it to be so fun. 
 Bullets and Japanese troops flying around are quite a site even on my older graphics card. Its 
 amazing plunging into the jungles of wartorn islands and hearing yells of your team as the foliage 
 around you is shreded and the ground is dusting from bullets. You turn and see 5 japs coming at 
 you. You load up your rifle and strafe right firing off trying to smoke as many as you can. The 
 last guy gets hit in the leg but manages to finally put a bullet in you. You drop to the ground 
 and your vision gets blurry, you call for help but cant hear if they heard you. Alone, blackness 
 settling in, you fight the pain, but voices and sounds from your past start clouding your thoughts. 
 Just before you slip away, a medic runs down and starts to bandage you. After a bit of scary moments 
 as you lay inches from death, you finally recover and stand up ready to take on enemy forces.
 
  This is what it's like. Crazy action, and great levels. I am satisified with almost every aspect 
 of the game (gfx, sfx, story) . The only downfalls are AI and linear levels. Sometimes i find myself 
 screaming at my troops to get out of the way because were being bombarded by enemy fire and they 
 dont want to move. Things like this happen every so often. The linear level design is also an annoyance 
 because there is almost no way you could ever get lost or seprated from your team like in real 
 life. I was hoping you could get more into the jungle and fight covertly.
  Even with these small details, MOHPA really came through as a good wargame. It is one that FPS 
 lovers should check out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Silvenight1
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 9, 2006 4:16 pm PT
Review:  Playing this game is why I love PC Gaming. Intense. In your face. And Heroic. This is a must for 
 any FPS fan that wants intense action and a bit of nostalgia. As for what it plays like, think 
 of a good old down and dirty FPS give it a shot of super juice. Then Mix in heroic deeds, cool 
 add in, that make one feel they are a hero once completed especially when one did not even plan 
 on doing it do get a reward. Cook it with in a good ole campaigners stove of intense dramatic action. 
 Served up with a heapin helpen of nice solid visuals. Now imagine that for a nice price that don't 
 kill a bank acount. In fact I wish I was playing it right now. See you on the beach rooks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: staff_sgt_tew
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 6, 2006 1:15 am PT
Review:  this was a good to great game. the graphices where good but somthings like track got pretty screwd 
 up but every thing els was good about the graphices. the game play was good but you can tell this 
 was game not for flying . the controls wher perfect exected for the fly was screwy. the game was 
 great but the flying is crapy you can tell this game was not for flying like when you have to sink 
 the air craft carrer you can blow it up with a MG you know how many round you would have to crank 
 out in real life to do that. it just they make the game great then they have to trow that horrible 
 flying part in it just pissed me off if you played the game you know what i mean . but they realy 
 nailed a good story line and i like how they set it up they told you about tommy (the main character) 
 befor the the first misson starts while it was loading. that how they start every new level which 
 is nice i thought 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheCrazyGuy1
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 15, 2006 2:58 am PT
Review:  Medal of Honor Pacific Assault delivers full gun pounding action with loads of cool weapons and 
 missions! You are Tommy Conlin, a US Marine who gets to fight in Pearl Harbor, Makin Attol, Guadalcanal 
 and Tarawa Attol. You get to kill Japanese soldiers, shoot down airplanes with your machine gun 
 and blow up machine gun turrets and bridges. If you play veteran or hard levels, you might find 
 it difficult to beat some of the levels so you should try playing it in easy or normal mode first, 
 then when you get the hang of it, you could play it in hard or veteran mode. The only things i 
 didn't like about it is that your companions dialogue is annoying, repeating the same thing over 
 and over again. I also didnt like the long loading times, each new area you fight in takes at least 
 2 to 5 to load, besides that, its a fun and amazing game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maulica
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 2, 2006 4:41 am PT
Review:  I consider Medal of honor Pacific Assault the best war game ever and I do not believe that there 
 will be another one to take his place for a long time .
  The main reason for my previous affirmation is the difficulty of the game. I found it very difficult 
 to complete some of the missions ( particularly the one where I had to shoot down a plane with 
 an AA gun from an airfield) .I also considered difficult the mission (s) where you have to fly a 
 plane and have to complete all sort of tasks- from shooting down other planes to destroying boats 
 and carriers - but after I got the hang of it ( and it took some time ) it turned out to be the 
 best part of the game. As i said before I like a game to be a bit difficult ( I refer to the normal 
 level) - that's why I didn't like Call of duty 2- which I finished in two days. I do not consider 
 myself a specialist , but I couldn't find a flaw in this game and I consider it to be revolutionary 
 for the fps war games ( the same as , in my opinion , Spellforce is revolutionary for the rts games 
 ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: j_mad
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 24, 2006 8:32 am PT
Review:  For me, it's the best World War II FPS. 
  The sound is great and the environment is dark, real, immersive...
  The graphics are good and 
 the detail is impressive.
  Walk in the jungle is wild and cool and the detail of call the medic to take care os us is very 
 cool.
  The worst thing is the game it-self. The Loading endures 10 minutes in my computer! Only the users 
 with "fat" computers can play this cool game.
  The multi-player is the same as Allied Assault. The result is a enjoyable mix of all the EA war 
 games.
  If you like FPS's, this is the right game, but if you're not patient, forget it... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonathanfwlr
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 19, 2006 10:25 am PT
Review:  Medal of Honor Allied Assault was the game that got me into the WWII shooters and is still one 
 of my favorite games. Now the newest PC MOH is Pacific Assault, and it is just as good.
  
  MOH Pacific Assault takes place in the Pacific instead of Europe. The look of the jungles and Japanese 
 villages is a wonderful turn from the dirty buildings of Europe. The graphics for this game a excellent. 
 The jungles look great, the water looks great, the characters look great.
  
  The sound is decent. The weapons all sound authentic. The music is fairly good. The voices sound 
 pretty good too. Nothing really stood out in the sound department.
  
  Now the gameplay is where this game really shines. In the new jungle environment and with the improved 
 AI, this game is tough. You have to hide behind logs and bushes and trees for cover or the Japanese 
 will get you. Their aim is excellent, just as good as any humans. This all adds a very real feel 
 to the combat. You feel like you are really there, dodging bullets to avoid death. Something new 
 that the Japanese do that the Nazis never did was charging. In many cases the Japanese will simply 
 run at you screaming and try to jab you with their guns or swords, yes, swords.
  
  MOH Pacific Assault is almost as fun and engrossing as Allied Assault. This game is just great. 
 Go out and enjoy WWII shooters again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Commykid27
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 12, 2006 3:57 pm PT
Review:  I really love the Medal Of Honor series and Pacific Assault really beat all the games before it 
 and has better graphics than alot of other games after it. I loved it, but it does need alot of 
 high end computer parts to run smoothly. Jeez, this MOH game really demands alot from a computer. 
 I have an intel p4 3.2 ghz and and xfx geforce 5500 with 1 gb ram and the game still lags. I think 
 im goin to upgrade to eVGA 6800GS. Anyways, the gameplay is great and every moment is intense, 
 but i wish there were more players online and the game wouldnt have such high requirements. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Beefycake
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 7, 2006 9:52 am PT
Review:  We pretty much think we seen all war games or have played alot at
  various times. War themed games have become a huge popular style of gameplay in todays gaming world.. 
 You might have played games such as Medal of Honor for the PS one, the 3d classic wolfenstien ( 
 though it quite vague yer entertaining) and the recent release of the intenese shooter Call of 
 Duty 2 for both Pc and Xbox 360. Ive just started to play MOH: Pacific Assualt and ive played pretty 
 much all of the the MOH series, and Pacific Assault is impressive.
  To sum up the Story of MOH: Pacific Assault, it does take place during
  the WW2, and while there 
 was war going on in Europe, ya know from Italy, Normany, France and Stalingrad.. and etc. there 
 was also the war going on in the Pacific... in Japan.. If my history is good ( or it might be a bit 
 off... sorry if im not accurate!!) The Coast of Pearl Harbor is attacked by the Japanese, and the 
 war between US and Japan begins. Thus creating a Pacific Assault. In the game, you play a young 
 soldier by the name Tommy Conlin, who experience the attack on Pearl Harbor and is recruited to 
 fight in the Pacific.
  Just like all Medal of Honor, you can expect a great deal of fighting and huge battles scenes. 
 There alot of fighting in the game and maybe a little stealth, so your always occupied by something 
 in the game. There plenty of weapons from the Colt .45 to BARS, to M1 carbine, tommy gun, and etc. 
 The gameplay is similar to all MOH, but a new feature in the game is the effect of your character 
 getting serverly hurt.. you collaspe on the ground, everything slows down and all you can hear is 
 your heart beat... you have to be either aid by a medic.. or worse shot by a Japanese. 
  The game is quite intese and there plenty of good action and man the enemies are really smart and 
 really tough!!!!, the graphic or not bad, but there could have room for improvement, but the sound 
 and music and dialoge of the game was key.. i was quite impressed by the quality of the sound and 
 music.. along the side, the game is quite hard but fair.
  Overall MOH: Pacific Assault was a pretty good experience for me, and 
  if you love the MOH Series, 
 you should play this game!!
  
  PROS: deadly good AI of enemies!! nice gameplay .. cool death sequence ( though death insistnt cool)
 
  
  CONS: some issues with the Frames, and graphics could have been better 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkomen3148
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 30, 2006 9:47 am PT
Review:  Medal of Honor: Pacific Assault makes one of the few, and by all means, one of the best Pacific 
 Themed WW2 games to date. With lush graphics in overwhelming jungles, you never know when that 
 real sounding bullet will whizz past your face.
  
  MOH: PA makes a great addition to the series along with their new engine. You will experience hours 
 of intense fighting as a member of an elite squad along many of the deadly islands of the Pacific. 
 Multiplayer also comes with a lot of enjoyment and excitment, if you are with the right crowd that 
 is.
  
  MOH: PA isn't perfect though. With many annoyances and bugs such as stuttering frames, jagged mouse 
 movements, you can have a hard time enjoying the game.
  
  Overall MOH: PA is, unfortuantly, quite an under-rated piece of work that the public didn't try 
 out enough. I'd recommend this game to any gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aeris100182
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 29, 2006 1:47 pm PT
Review:  I have to say good job to EA for the new installment of the MOH series. They have a more realistic 
 touch with the command option. The graphics in this installment were very detailed with enriched 
 jungle environments. It was genius to put situations were you had to depend on your corpsman which 
 gave a realistic wartime feel also made it more intense as well. Like most first person the controls 
 were similar to the others which made it simple to learn the game in almost no time. The storyline 
 was very catchy and pulled the player to more involvement with the game. As a personal note it 
 about time they tell it as it is having a enlisted members doing the dirty work instead of a officer 
 doing solo missions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pvt_binkowski
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 25, 2006 3:17 pm PT
Review:  Oh no another MoH game! Well don't think this is another secrect operations and you have to be 
 stealthy like the first medal of honor. No in Pacific Assault you play as Tommy Conlin and is based 
 around the US Marines taking back the Pacific and it is quite possibly the best Pacific WW2 game 
 ever. Some games come close but just not quite, Pacific Assault Pushes the limit of your skills 
 and wits against some damn smart enemies. The enemys will Banzai charge you the officers will slice 
 and dice you and you can be dead in seconds if you dont use the full potentioal of your team. In 
 my opinion Pacific Assault is in some cases better then CoD2 (Call of Duty 2 for noobs) Visuals 
 and Gameplay. But make your own decision. Dont just think that your going to buy it just go and 
 buy it! See you online.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: azn_shorty75
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 17, 2006 5:49 am PT
Review:  this medal of honor game is really great, the wide weapon selections are very nice and there are 
 many missions. some easy some hard, but the hard ones actually make it funner since if u pass thru 
 the game really fast, wheres the fun in that? so this game is a realy awesome nice and balanced
 
  
  the storyline is based on warworld 2 and u are a marine called tommy, u and ur squad must go kill 
 and destroy many of the japanese posts, there are airplane battles and ground fights, this game 
 is very entertaining, brings u into the world war 2 world and makes u feel as if u were rite there!
 
  
  the game consists of many modes, like campain and even multiplayer where u can play online! this 
 game is a really great medal of honor game and one of the best of the first person shooters 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sam_2006
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 3, 2006 12:37 pm PT
Review:  I'm one of second world-war games fans, and I played COD 1/2 and also Medal of honor allied assault. 
 I played Medal of honor pacific assault recently and i was very satisfied; the game is very addictive 
 and once i started it, i felt unlikely to stop playing it. as far as graphics are concerned, the 
 game has clearly improved from the first moh allied assault, and reveals great graphics. the gameplay 
 is may be, the most powerful aspect about the game, the addition of "doctors" and other features 
 makes the game very enjoyable and fun. Finally, the sound effects, I actually found it very cool 
 and sounds you're involved in a real battle ( fire and planes, boats and all aspects of WAR effectively 
 expressed in terms of sound effects) . I really recommend this game for people who crave for FPS 
 and particularly 2 world war games lovers, because this game indeed deserves your attention !! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sgt5thboard
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 8, 2006 11:57 pm PT
Review:  Well, you play a Private called Tom Collins (If I'm not wrong) who is also stared in another series 
 of this franchise "Medal Of Honour". Well, what can I say about this game, the graphics are so well 
 done, better than Allied Assault. The gameplay is almost the contrast than Allied Assault because 
 most of the times you are going solo in Allied Assault but in Pacific Assault, you have a team! If 
 you die, don't worry because you have a Medic. The dialogue in this game is funny with it's Vulgar 
 words. The sound in this game is beautiful, man I mean it. The music is really suits the surroundings. Controls 
 in this game is OK, just like Allied Assault with a few changes. Now the weapons are also unique 
 and more choices. The enemy in this game, I tell ya, more smarter than the Nazi's. (believe me, you 
 may have difficulties against this guys. There's another thing.. there will be a mission where you 
 man a plane, it really is terrible, you've be happy to pass the darn mission.
  
  Now the bad part... WHY MUST THE LOADING TIMES BE SO LONG?!!! Tell me? You also need to have a very 
 high-powered PC. Following the minimum is not gonna do any good in the gameplay.
  
  So, If you wanna buy a World War II game that is the same like other games like Call Of Duty and 
 Battlefield but want to try something different like in the Midway 
  Battle compare to the same ol' European Tour, this is the game for you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cloner4000
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 4, 2006 10:10 pm PT
Review:  OK, so first thing first. I have read past reviews and see how many people just hammers away at 
 Pacific Assault like it was a total failure. But in my opinion, it IS the game that bring WWII 
 FPS into the next level. Although I would argue it was TOO advcance that it failure at its Marketing 
 the game.
  
  The game has FABULOUS Graphics, don't give me crap that it sucks, please look back to older Medal 
 of Honor or Call of Duty 1 & UO their graphic are NOTHING like this one. The game HAD developed 
 new engine and technology that are perhaps too far out advance for average gamer.
  
  I remember when I first play the game, it took me two or three minute to load EACH level, and THAT 
 is a long time and my graphic card isn't that good too.
  However, as of now, I run the game in my updated computer, the loading time was considerable shorter 
 and although still long compare to other games, was bearable.
  
  The basic problem people had was not enemy took a lot of shot to kill. Will that's BS. sure it 
 took more bullets to kill, but you guys beg more "REALISTIC EXPERIACNE" YOU GOT IT BUT YOU WERE 
 COMPLAINING AT THE SAME TIME!!! So what if in real life it took more than two bullet to kill a 
 soldier? There is no reason to cry over that. Maybe if you use the right gun and aim at the right 
 place this would not have happened. 
  
  Pistol was never meant to be a strong weapon, SHotgun are not a rifle. M1 are weaker than bolt-action 
 rifle, the guns have recoils. ALL this are either part of reality or to balance the game.
  
  Moving on. In what game do you actually enjoyed the menu? None except Medal of Honor as I can 
 think off.
  
  The Menu of Medal of Honor is Perfect, not only does it play music and radio of the time but it 
 also changes as the story moved on you get to see what soldier were doing when not fighting and 
 they do all sorts of stuff. They should definately try to make menu like that.
  
  The story itself was BRILLIANT, this is probably the first game that really try to get you to feel 
 like a real soldier instead of Rambo. I enjoyed the cutscense and the way character develops. You 
 can actually remember TOMMY COLLIN or Willie, Jimmy, and Frank, and not only does you see their 
 faces change, so does there personality. All of this you can't see from any other games.
  CALL of Duty or other Medal of Honor games. They have diaries and footages, but no main characters 
 asides from a few Capt. or Sgt. who yell out orders. After a while, they leave little overall impression 
 because they are not alive.
  PA does A REALLY GOOD JOB IN THE PLOTLINE.
  
  The game itself is context senatives too, I have play the game thourgh a few time and depending 
 on what I do, I can't sort of varing plot. the example is that in the airplane level you can actually 
 try to save one of your squadmate, and the character have different scene depending on weather 
 you seceed or not.
  
  This bring us to next trouble people seems to have. The Airplnae level.
  Most people perceving 
 it as diasterious. But I actually enjoyed it. It is not to say that it does not have some fault, 
 in fact it have many.
  The compass map of that level is not enough to guide us though the level, we often would keep flying 
 trying to find enemys and die when flying out of range.
  This is a big problem. If the problem were to be fixed, this level can turn out to be quite different 
 experiance, a one to be enjoyed. Since I have never played flight sims before, it took me a while 
 to get the control and in the process is very annoying. That could be the reason people are complaining, 
 because they keep dying. I die no less than 40 times. However I think the part where you get to 
 attack destroyer and flattop are a blast.
  
  The other part of complain are the repetitive jungle enviorament.
  You know what? Pacific have 
 A LOT OF Jungles, that is just the way it is, imagine someone saying, why is there so hills and 
 house in Europe? It's that stupid. Plus I really don't think the game repeat that much. It various 
 a lot actually. Your typical jungle, jungle w/ swamp Ridges, waterfall, or you know what? Tarawa 
 have NO JUNGLE. Yeah there is absolutely no annoying repetition.
  
  Medic: You will never be able to have a perfect healing technoic, weather it's healthpack, the 
 calling medic, or CD2's halo style healing. I find the medic to be really revolutionary and was 
 a really refreshing experiances. he was like a moving health pack, but you have to watch for yourself 
 too as it is limited and took time. The verge of death is good attempt but the process of deciding 
 weather the player survive or die need to be wrok on as it is randomized completely
  
  Squad Control. People say it's not much of change and sucks a lot. Well did you see us going to 
 space after Wright Brothers invent airplane? Thought so.
  As far as I consiered PA is a stepping stone into the next generation of WWII FPS, since the squad 
 control was NEVER introduced prior to that, you can't expect them to perfect it with this game. 
 and at least you get to fight w/ a squad not by yourself and it make a lot of differance.
  
  Movies: I have never before or after seem any WWII games with cutscenes of animation of WWII 
 again. The game does a splended job trying to do that and I have to say I was really impress with 
 the movie, it really excites me.
  
  All in all, Medal of Honor Pacific Assault is a huge stepping stone in which WWII FPS took a step 
 into games as we know now, Call of Duty 2, Brothers in Arms series. PA is the first to try it with 
 exceptional graphics, (check other games around that time, you will now what I mean) many revolutionary 
 changes (Squad Control, Medics, Flying sims) I am not saying all changes are good, but it is a 
 good attempt and one that I really apprecaited.
  
  You should buy this game not only does it not look outdated by a lot while comparing to the WWII 
 FPS of today, (try playing medal of honor, Allied Assault) you will definately find the differance 
 and such that you will not find in PA. This is a must buy for those looking for good WWII FPS 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blazethe1
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 2, 2006 12:38 pm PT
Review:  This game is EXTREMELY immersive, up until you hav to load a new level. if you are going to play 
 this game, make sure you hav an above average computer, AT LEAST!!! id say at least a 2.4 ghz processor, 
 1gb ram, and a decent video card, mines a radeon 9600 pro 256mb, and it seems to get the job done. 
 the graphics are amazing, but the foresty areas of the game are very "confining" there are specific 
 trails you hav to follow as you sneak around through the forest, and all the shrubery can get confusing, 
 especially in the multiplayer levels, which btw, should not be your reason of purchase. the loading 
 times were so long, when it finally loaded, i was able to watch the end of the last round, then 
 switch levels again. it would load for a good 5 minutes and the same thing would happen, it would 
 switch levels. it seems the multiplayer in this can be accomplished so much better by battlefield 
 1942, or B2. one of the highest parts of the game, is the amazingly immersive level where you are 
 taking a tour of the base at pearl harbor right before the attack. then you assume your duties, 
 race to a boat, and start machine gunning the "japs" you will use several different guns with unbelievable 
 realisticity (if thats a word) and it will be fun all up to the part where youre trudging through 
 the jungle. then it gets very repetitive, you go through what seems like infinity of jungle area 
 where you will stumble upon a japanese base here and there, but then move on. the physics are the 
 downside for sure, unlike half life 2s amazing ragdoll physics, the bodies fall back into the same 
 possision no matter what. "Screw the wall, im falling through it wheather you like it or not!" 
 this is why i gave a would be 10, a 9 on graphics
  
  OVER ALL: only buy if you hav a very high end PC, and dont mind the repetitive jungle. i finally 
 made my way through, but not without losing alot of my intrest in the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: devildweller98
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 29, 2005 8:10 am PT
Review:  Big fan of medal of honor. and this is an amazing game. great graphics and gameplay, with a nice 
 storyline. from Pearl Harbor to the daring beach assault on Tarawa Island, join the allied crusade 
 to defeat imperial Japan"s bloody charge across the Pacific. Fight like hell through more than 
 25 levels on land, at sea and even in the air. direct your squad movement. verge of death, when 
 all looks lost, crawl for cover, call your medic and hope he can get you back in the action. A 
 very fun game to play if you like 1st person war shooter. this is a must have. Amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: caiuschung1
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 24, 2005 10:50 pm PT
Review:  Medal of Honor Pacific Assault delivers full gund pounding action with loads of cool weapons and 
 missions! You are Tommy Conlin, a US Marine who gets to fight in Pearl Harbor, Makin Attol, Guadalcanal 
 and Tarawa Attol. You get to kill Japanese soldiers, shoot down airplanes with your machine gun 
 and blow up machine gun turrets and bridges. If you play veteran or hard levels, you might find 
 it difficult to beat some of the levels so you should try playing it in easy or normal mode first, 
 then when you get the hang of it, you could play it in hard or veteran mode. Besides that, this 
 is the best moh game ever made yet! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheHat
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 21, 2005 6:22 pm PT
Review:  This game just blew me away! again EA games has done another soon-to-be classic PC game in the 
 near future. The gameplay is fantastic EA has done a wonderful job, corpses move and sway when 
 you run them over and the "medic-calling" idea is great unlike other games where you just dash 
 up to some rations and get revived but this game is different you get healed the in the exact way 
 like you're in the field. The storyline is excellent the pacing and the drama it's all in one game! 
 The musical scoring is done so well it even makes you feel patriotic at times and the music matches 
 the mood of the situation i have to give a lot of credit to the musical director or the people 
 in charge of the music because they have done such an excellent job. If not for the excellent sound 
 team this game might end up like the other MOH mediocre expansions that're just plain military 
 FPS game. in overall, The improved gameplay, the wonderful graphics won't be that much of an excitement 
 if not for the game's great music i think EA should concentrate on this aspect on their future 
 games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: suprman2184
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 10, 2005 11:28 pm PT
Review:  the game is great to play it gets hard when you go up on the skill levels the realistic i think 
 is the best to play under it has the best of the real world of the game in it. the multi-player 
 kinda sucks but if you play it for a long time you will get sick of it. all in all great game i 
 think it is some what better the allied assault can't wait for the next one to come out. the graphics 
 of the game are great when you have to run threw water and wooded areas. the game can be better 
 in some parts of the game. like with the other men in your squad, they could shot at the enemy 
 and not get in the way of your gun when you're trying to take a shot. the weapons of the game have 
 a realistic sound to them if you have the sound turned up load to listen to them fire. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frios302004
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 9, 2005 9:32 pm PT
Review:  Well pacific 'til now is the best world war 2 game in the stores, all the misions in single player 
 were amazing and so exciting in spite of the anoying management of the plane, and is true the game 
 slows down at multiplayer even with 1Gb of memory, i need to close a lot of programs before playing 
 it , and although i have a 128MB video card i need to turn the graphics at the minimum, the multiplayer 
 i havent played it , but everybody says that it sucks , in my personal opinion i recomend the mision 
 in Gualdalcanal , i love it , fighting for your life with japanese at night were so vicious ...
 
  
  the past moh games were good , but i didnt like the "rambo" gameplay, now i 've at least my 3-men-squad 
 , Frank, Willy and medic Jimmy, plus other guys who helped me always , something really hard where 
 the japanese mg42 , god damn they were hard to beat, that's it and im waiting excited the next 
 moh, hope that will be the european theather operations with the new gameplay , CSC , graphics 
 engine , and make a trick to remain the main characters Tommy , Frank "gunny" (jjajaja it rulz) , 
 Willy and Jimmy.... see ya! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djtono4444
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 30, 2005 4:56 pm PT
Review:  EA did a great job here.. BUT, u should b very carful, cuz this game in every aspect is 10 single 
 player campaign, trillin, exitin, u almost feel like ur in the jungle killin those japs.. graphs 
 r so damn kool, sounds perfect, AI at its best level, n gameplay its just amazin. but in the other 
 hand, this game lacks on multiplayer.. i know dat game expareince may change durin multiplayer 
 but.. here u REALLY see changes.. as i said.. MP lack lack.. im a SP n MP customer. so in the end 
 i do recomend the game. its great.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doom1327
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 28, 2005 6:00 pm PT
Review:  Thinking about getting this game? Well think again if you are only getting it for MP (online multiplayer) 
 This game is only worth it for the singleplayer which is a almost perfect 9.9/10 in my opinion. 
 Probably one of the best singleplayer games i will ever play, and i dont even buy games for there 
 singleplayer, im all about multiplayer. REPEAT: Thinking about getting this game? Well think again 
 if you are only getting it for MP (online multiplayer) This game is only worth it for the singleplayer 
 which is a almost perfect 9.9/10 in my opinion. Probably one of the best singleplayer games i will 
 ever play, and i dont even buy games for there singleplayer, im all about multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mclazyj
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 26, 2005 10:46 pm PT
Review:  Medal of Honor: Pacific Assault is a game that really has learned from most of its mistakes. It 
 is a solid game with well thought out levels (mostly) and cunning AI. However, there are some flaws 
 in the game that take away from the fun and from it being a 9+ hit.
  
  You play as Tommy (I have already forgotten his last name.) , a soldier that has been fighting for 
 some time now. You are landing on the beach at Tarowa, when you are attacked and swarmed. During 
 this battle you are incapacitated and then are flashing back to the beginning of your war career. 
 It is a cool touch and an efficient way to get you going.
  
  The story is a good one and they have taken the time to really flesh out the people that are in 
 your squad. You get to learn their names and some of their backstories. It makes you feel like 
 a unit. But when combat begins, you will start to feel otherwise.
  
  Graphically, the game is good looking. My understanding is that they build their own graphical 
 engine for this game and it does look good. it does a great job at rendering people and their faces 
 in the game. Structures look good as well, although, they are definitely not as polished as the 
 character models. You will need a fast video card to unlock most of the detail. I was stuttering 
 in a couple of locations overall, but that was due to the amount of actions on the screen. But 
 overall, I ran the game at 1280x1024 with full detail on with a Nvidia Geforce 6800GT stock clock 
 levels and it worked fine for about 96% of the game. The deafening effect where you stutter and 
 feel like you are out of the action is handled quite nicely and more war games could use this effect.
 
  
  Sound on the other hand is amazing in this game. I really liked the way that the rifles and artilery 
 sounded. The orchestral music is nice at times, but once the action starts, you can't hear it. 
 The character actors are really good and put a lot into their characters. It again, makes the characters 
 in the game feel close to you. 
  
  When I bought the game, I bought the Director's cut which allows me some insight to how the game 
 was made and marketed. The DC has some amazing footage of some battles and also has interviews 
 with people that were in those battles. It was a sombering experience listening to these guys talk 
 about their experiences at each section of the game. Also you can turn on pop up viedeo type trivia 
 which will explain things that you come across in the game. It is a cool feature and more should 
 folow its example.
  
  Now one of the biggest flaws in the game is that you still feel like a solo hero. You are called 
 on to make most if not all of the charges and the do most of the recon. WWII is about teamwork, 
 not solo escapades. Also, there is a flying sequence in the game that will drive you insane. I 
 won't say when, but beware of it because it is there and it is tough as nails.
  
  Overall, MOHPA is a game that is solid in its delivery of a good gaming experience, and gives you 
 lots of learning facts while doing it, but you will be upset when the one man army show goes on 
 to have to take all the enemies by yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bow2me_63
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 11, 2006 9:01 pm PT
Review:  Pacific Assault is truly an underated and unappreciated game. It takes what Call of Duty had and 
 kicks it up a notch, much like Call of Duty did to Allied Assault. 
  
  Pacific Assault is similar to Call of Duty in that it brings squad mechanics to the Medal of Honor 
 series for the first time, the amount of weapons you can hold at a time has been limited, and the 
 overall game has been made to be much more realistic.
  
  What sets Pacific Assault apart from other WW2 games, such as the Brothers in Arm series, the Call 
 of Duty series, and even the Medal of Honor series is that it is set in the Pacific Theater of 
 war, a new territory for WW2 shooters.
  
  Pacific Assault feels like a combination of Far Cry, or a Vietnam War shooter with Call of Duty. 
 Most of the fighting is set in the jungle, with lots of foilage. This can make the game difficult 
 at times, because the AI in this game is very good, and they know how to take cover among the dense 
 bush.
  
  The graphics of Pacific Assault are fairly good, espicially the characters, but these graphics 
 come at a price. It is true that this game is horribly optimized. I have an AMD Athlon 64 3400+ 
 with 1.5 GB of RAM and an AGP GeForce 6600GT 128 MB, and I can run this game at 1024x768 at high 
 settings with Frame Rates at about 25-40. This may sound pretty good, but with my computer I can 
 also run Doom 3 at 1280 x 1024 at high settings with a steady frame rate of 60 FPS, and Doom 3 
 has superior graphics.
  
  The sound of Pacific Assault I think is truly one of the most underated part of the game. The score 
 is very nice, and unlike some people I do not fell it is recycled or repetitive. Also, the sound 
 effects of this game are really nice. Bullets whizzing by, planes flying overhead, the explosion 
 of a grenade, sounds like this are done really well in this game. one of the coolest things about 
 Pacific Assault is when a grenade lands by you. The screen and your hearing blurs and you can hear 
 a kind of high pitched squeal. The sound of Pacific Assault is truly top-notch.
  
  Another thing I like about Pacific Assault is that you do not look for health packs, but you are 
 healed by a medic. You can call upon him, or if your HP reaches 0 the screen blurs, you are on 
 the ground, and you hope that the Medic reaches you in time. These moments are truly cinematic, 
 intense, and suspenseful.
  
  But my favorite part of Pacific Assault has to be the gameplay. Many people complain that the levels 
 are too repetitive, but I disagree. There are many levels that are truly intense, and I guarantee 
 you will love them.
  
  If you have a powerful enough computer to run this game fairly well, it is definetely a game you 
 should pick up. In my opinion, a true Call of Duty killer.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: marcohSS
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 23, 2005 2:58 pm PT
Review:  Since the old Dynamix Flight Sim Aces of the Pacific, I've had an enduring fascination with the 
 pacific aspect of WWII. What's odd though, in playing that game, I always got the sense something 
 was missing. Flying off Henderson field, I didn't get the appreciation for the savage back and 
 forth fighting that took place in the jungles below. Until now, that is. I awaited this title with 
 almost frantic anticipation. I've played almost every WWII shooter out there; always European theater; 
 always villages and hedgerows; I got my first taste of jungle combat in Vietcong, and I was hooked. 
 When this game hit, I was ready to bring it. It's not often that a video game can create an emotional 
 reaction in me; Fallout was able to with the casual brutality and starkness of it's introduction; 
 more recent games like Gun are able to as well with the sheer savagery of the opening fight on 
 the Steamboat; MoHPA was able to do it not through its intro but through your participation in 
 the opening mission, Pearl Harbor. For many years, Pearl Harbor was one of the most shocking examples 
 of loss of life in a surprise attack; I think until 9/11 some of the awfulness of it got lost in 
 the distance of history; not in this game; you are right in the thick of it. From the very beginning, 
 MoHPA draws you into the role of Thomas Conlin, a new marine on his way to his first posting. After 
 narrowly surviving Pearl Harbor, you'll follow Tommy across the Pacific, now reunited wiht his 
 buddies from Boot. Some might find the chatter of the squadmates annoying; I found it comforting; 
 my own personal refrain when playing FPS type games is I hate always being alone. Even if I have 
 to go carry someone back to the medic for the 5th time because they ran too far ahead, I still 
 enjoy the bonding aspect of it. In this game, unlike others like the Battlefield series, you get 
 a sense of the horror of war, of the loss of life; and you appreciate the close calls; will Jimmy 
 get to you in time as you lay bleeding, or will he get cut down too trying to reach you? To my 
 mind, they did a great job of creating a bond with your squad. I mean, let's look at it honestly; 
 FPS games are a dime a dozen. It's the small things, plot, voice, story that make them special. 
 Now for me, the historical depiction was key; the pacific theater is rarely seen in movies or talked 
 about. Little is said about how brutal the fighting was; the horrible casualty rates; the voice 
 of Tommy, along with his interaction with his squad, and officers gives a sense of some of this; 
 add in some awesome (and very hard) jungle combat and I have a game that I've been waiting to play 
 for a long long time. So, to the nuts and bolts; Weapons, all the old faves; including Japanese 
 guns; they do come in handy because you'll be shooting a lot. Varied missions; love the jungle 
 graphics; you get a sense of how treacherous it was; try to spot a pillbox before they open up 
 on you; worse, try to figure a way to knock it out without getting gunned down. This was not an 
 easy game. They also have a number of hidden objectives which allow you heroic moments (and memories 
 to be enjoyed later at the main menu while sifting through your footlocker,) and you get decorations 
 for other acts you commit while fufilling the normal ones in the form of medals. Some of the missions, 
 such as the jungle cleanup with Frank after bloody ridge have amazing graphics; the night in the 
 jungle was beautiful to behold; almost magical, until the japanese came screaming out of ambush 
 and almost killed us both. Is he going to mention the horrible plane mission? Yes, fine. I hated 
 the plane mission. I kept hoping I would get to meet the pilot again so I could give him a wood 
 shampoo with the butt of my rifle. It was a surprise; it definitely was different but that game 
 is not meant to be a flight sim and it was a derailing experience just getting through it. I think 
 casual gamers with an interest in WWII and the pacific theater will be extremely pleased with this 
 game. Hardcore shooter nuts will probably not like it much; in the jungle, you gotta take it low 
 and slow; can't be tanking ahead... and you can't leave your squad behind. Good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: finalflame_04
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 16, 2005 5:02 pm PT
Review:  this game is a solid game it is was way overrated though as it took so long to make so everyone 
 figured it would be flawless but unfortunatelly it took to long to make this game so cod finest 
 hour came out and dominated but moh is my personal favourite for online battles as it the maps 
 are way more sophisticated and make better sense yay go  european 
 assault is even better so buy that it is groundbreaking as well so mohpa im giving you a 9.0 hopefully 
 mohea is better :P the end the end the end the end the end 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ariel_king
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 14, 2005 5:20 am PT
Review:  This game is a great, solid and an amazing first person shooter game that rocks!!!
  
  Gameplay: You are playing as a soldier, protecting the U. S from the Japanise that are attacking 
 you and the united state of america. The storyline is great and the gameplay overall are fantastic.
 
  
  Graphics: The graphics are great. The weapons look great the areas are awsome and the viechels 
 are awsome.
  
  Sound: The sound is beautiful. The weapons sound great and the music that warning you when you 
 need to fight is great.
  
  Value: You can play hours and hours in the multiplay mode and the single mode is long and satisfaying.
 
  
  Reviewer's tilt: Overall this game is awsome and you should really buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: digaobasso
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 13, 2005 9:57 am PT
Review:  Este jogo  perfeito. Bons Graficos, um cenario muito realista e cheio de armadilhas, como barris 
 de gasolina, que podem ser explodidos durante as batalhas, Inteligencia artificial dos inimigos 
 e aliados muito avaada, O material bonus com as entrevistas com os veteranos, imagens e cenas 
 de Pearl harbor, Makin Atoll, Midway, Guadalcanal e Tarawa so excelentes!
  Os jogos da srie Medal of Honor, quando lanados para PC, apresentam uma facilidade de controles 
 e uma jogabilidade bem melhor do que para o playstation ou playstation 2. Eles deveriam lanar 
 jogos apenas com plataforma para PC.
  Ento  isso! H muito tempo eu no via um jogo to bem trabalhado como esse! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wibbilus
Rating: 3
Date: Nov 13, 2005 4:31 am PT
Review:  The Medal OF Honor series effectively died on the PC with the release of Pacific Assault. Most 
 of the programmers who worked on the original Medal Of Honor title had left to work on Call Of 
 Duty and this showed in the complete lack of gameplay in Pacific Assault.
  EA created a highly polished graphical engine, then bolted a bug ridden game onto the back of it. 
 This is reflected in the speed of which the patch was released and the thousands of requests for 
 a second patch contained on many forums. Most noticable of complaints about Pacific Assault is 
 the sudden appearance of enemy soldiers due to the levels being divided up into zones and the positions 
 of the enemy troops not being populated within those zones until all the men in your unit had entered 
 the boundary of the zone. The result of this is that you cannot scout ahead of your unit because 
 you could actually have a enemy soldier appear right in front of you. (This actually happened to 
 me on numerous occasions, and once I suddenly found myself in amongst 3 Japanese soldiers) .
  The bugs in the gameplay were obviously too numerous to fix as despite many requests in forums 
 and statements from people indicating they had emailed EA directly, no second patch for Pacific 
 Assault was ever released, effectively resigning the game to the scrapheap of failed releases. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark_knight150
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 12, 2005 3:55 pm PT
Review:  When I saw previews of this game in magazines like PC Gamer, I was really intrigued and excited 
 about the concepts that this game brags. It has immersive graphics, detailed historical references, 
 hardened difficulties to try out, and hidden objectives. More mainly, however, it brings to the 
 WWII genre the Pacific Theatre which since hasn't been used with games (atleast not shooters) . 
 Cue the suprise I got when I actually played it.
  This game has a completely different feel from any COD game out there, testing your patience and 
 teamwork as you island hop throughout major historical events. To be frank, the AI isn't anything 
 special at all. I was extremely suprised when, in certain situations, my teammates would simply 
 sit back as I frantically took down enemy after enemy with countless health losses. The enemy AI 
 is also extremely unpredictable, where they would either stand in front of me without attacking 
 or be completely aware of me on the other side of the map. Going off of that, your teammates will 
 rely on you time and time again to either get on the turret, throw the grenade, or plant the bomb. 
 In the end I felt like a one-man army, having to take down several enemies at once as my buddies 
 barked orders. 
  The health packs add a challenge to the game, limiting it to 4 per level, which are carried around 
 by your medic who follows you through out the level. If you're shot down, it's up to him get to 
 you before you completely back out. This is extremely frusterating, where at times either you'll 
 be stabbed by a Jap or will simply run out of time. The AI seems to focus all it's firing at you, 
 so it's really important to take cover whenever in a gun fight. They'll also rush you, proceeding 
 to stabbing you, which in turn will force you to use bandages in the middle of battle to prevent 
 extensive blood lose. It got so annoying that I'd use all of my medic packs in the first few minutes 
 of a level, making the rest of the level a trial-error nightmare. Frickin' annoying!
  When you really get into the game however, it gets really fun. The levels look great, and the over 
 all feel is really adrenaline paced with tons of action. The physics don't add much, but they give 
 an amusing look to dead bodies dangling all over the place. The guns are nicely organized, although 
 on a number of occasions I found that the Japanese rifles just didn't do enough damage, even with 
 one hit to the face. Speaking of which....
  When I played this game on hard, I was under the impression that enemies would be more difficult 
 to kill. In that assumption, I was right, but I wish I was wrong. No joke; I'd shoot a Japenese 
 soldier in the face three times before he'd go down. The only accurate rifle I could get my hands 
 on was the sniper rifle, which unfortuantly didn't make a lot of appearences. This along with other 
 aggrevations towards the game really ticked me off, so if you're going to play it, play it on a 
 lower setting.
  With all that said, this game was overall OKAY. It wasn't the best WWII shooter, and since I haven't 
 played many bad ones I wouldn't call it the worste either. If you're really crazy about just about 
 every WWII game out there, do yourself a favor and pick this one up. If you really like Call of 
 Duty however, you might be severely disappointed. I really wanted to like this game, but in the 
 end it just didn't cut it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomgamer90
Rating: 7.7
Date: Oct 24, 2005 2:25 pm PT
Review:  Medal of Honor: Pacific Assault is nothing more than a B-rate Medal of Honor with fancy graphics 
 and sound. Medal of Honor: Pacific Assault lacks in gameplay, lasting appeal, etc. Medal of Honor: 
 Pacific Assault was designed to be the Rising Sun of PC but it was just barely better than Rising 
 Sun. I'll give it credit for having some decent squad AI and some amazing graphics but it may look 
 good but it doesn't play very well. You start out in a pathetic boot camp training that feels unnecessary, 
 boring, and unneeded. Then, Medal of Honor: PA is fun for a while but seems very repetitive after 
 going through virtually every jungle in the pacific. The only level that doesn't take place in 
 a jungle is in the air in a flying level that is virtually impossible to beat due to a horrible 
 control system. In fact, I never beat Medal of Honor: PA for the longest time until I found a cheat 
 to beat the near impossible flying level. However it does have some interesting new realistic features 
 like having a medic that can actually heal you when your health reaches drastically low, your vision 
 turns black and white and fades as your health decreases, but none of these are revolutionary they've 
 been done many times before. If you're a big fan of Medal of Honor this game may be entertaining 
 for 1-2 weeks tops considering the multiplayer is also very mediocre. The multiplayer feels like 
 a basic console deathmatch FPS and is very generic and even more boring than the single player's 
 jungle parade. They tried very hard on this game but did nothing to make the game as good as it 
 looks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheGTAPlace
Rating: 8.2
Date: Oct 23, 2005 3:05 am PT
Review:  When I first began playing this game I thought it was amazing, but as you get further in to it, 
 it becomes rather tedious and repetitive. A nice new feature however is being able to command your 
 team throughout the game, although it doesnt always work how you want it to. For example, you 
 tell your team to advance and sometimes they just stay still, thats rather annoying sometimes. 
 Damage from bullets isnt too good either, sometimes it will take up to 10 shots to the chest area 
 to kill a Jap, having said that, what is good is the enemy A. I, especially as they charge towards 
 you with bayonets as you frantically try to reload your weapon.
  Another new feature I did like was the corpsman. It was much more realistic having your medic run 
 over a patch you and your team up when youd been hit, as opposed to picking up medi packs along 
 the way. You get 4 heals per level and after theyve gone thats it until a new level loads up. 
 When you are almost dead you go into a blurry dying state, lying down, barely able to move, if 
 your corpsman still has heals available he will run over and patch you up, however if he has none, 
 or he doesnt get there in time, you will die, or get executed if any enemies are nearby, quite 
 a cool feature, other WW2 shooters should consider doing something similar.
  The game physics are excellent, shooting certain objects will provoke an explosion or cause it 
 to fly up and tumble over. If you choose to shoot your own soldiers they will fall back, although 
 they seem to be invulnerable to your own bullets. Other than what I have said I cant pick up on 
 any more flaws.
  
  The graphics in this game are brilliant. Arguably the best part of this game is the fantastic graphics, 
 the way rays of sunlight hit objects is so real its as if youre actually there watching it all 
 happen. Explosions and other particle effects are also very, very good, certainly some of the most 
 realistic I have seen in a shooter anyway. As you are in the Pacific throughout the entirety of 
 the game, the jungle textures are a welcome change to the usual destroyed town textures we are 
 used to in so many other WW2 games, although it can get a bit boring after a while, thats the 
 only downside.
  
  Now I dont have a particularly fancy speaker system for my PC, so I cant fully appreciate the 
 effort put into audio effects for this game, but I have to say the sounds are incredible. Explosions, 
 bullets, bayonets, they all sound so realistic. The voice acting is also pretty decent, and that 
 goes for the Japanese too which sounds very authentic, although I have no idea what they are saying.
 
  
  Overall, a decent WW2 shooter. It might not be as good as expected but I would definitely recommend 
 it if you love the Medal of Honor series and/or WW2 shooters. Personally, I still prefer Call of 
 Duty to this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghassan2277
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 22, 2005 7:51 pm PT
Review:  well this game is worth playing i loved it its better the Brothers in arms, i liked the graphics 
 the sound and its is a long game ,i love long games but the only thing i didnt love is that it 
 needs a advanced VGA card so u can play it at high details but i lowerd the details and played 
 it was fun, so go buy it and u wont regret, i'm waiting for the new game Call of duty and as i 
 say it is more action than medal but the 2 games are very coooooooool.
  what i can talk about the 100 words wont finishes 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davidsamta
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 22, 2005 6:21 am PT
Review:  Well, lets get one thing straight! This game needs a good computer to run it!!!! With my old 5200 
 256mb I had to run it on all low settings and it was still laggy, but now I have my X800GTO, it 
 works fine on highest settings. The first level is quite fun, but pretty short. The next couple 
 of levels are really fun as well, especially the ones on the boat! I haven't completed the game 
 yet, but I am in the jungle levels. These levels get very boring and are very long.
  
  A main thing that ruins the game is your teammates AI. They listen to your commands, but sometime 
 they go somewhere else and don't really help you out. Also, the medic doesn't come quick enough 
 when you call him. 
  
  Overall, this game is quite good, I haven't really tried the MP out much, but the singleplayer 
 is very exciting. But the game is let down by dumb AI and some boring levels. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SlyDotCom
Rating: 2.5
Date: Oct 16, 2005 2:27 pm PT
Review:  I love MOHAA... so i thought that OMG!. i Most buy MOHPA.. so i whent to a store .. and i bought 
 MOH: PA and i taked the bus home and directly i installed it.. and then i started it up.. and i 
 dont now what to say im very disappoined... i aimed with Thompson (tommy gun) and i shoot... like 
 i shot 1 bullet and then it lagged (in offline mode) the gun shoot 1 bullet burst....
  then i started online gaming... so i created an account.. and then i started to play.... the game 
 is so stiff.. if u shoot some 1 they dont react at all!
  MOHAA IS B ETTER!
  hope you dont buy this game.! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: srickert12
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 24, 2005 12:04 am PT
Review:  In my opinion this game is unique compared to a lot of the war games currently out. Not too many 
 actually touched on the Pacific side of World War II. No only did they touch on it, they made a 
 very solid game based on it. This game has a lot to offer. The graphics in this game were very 
 good. The interface was excellent. The sound was so realistic you thought you were there. If you 
 listened close enough you could tell different weapons by the sound. The downfall to this game 
 is its to short and left you wanting more in the end. I couldnt believe how quick I got through 
 the game. You start out on you last mission just to find that the game really hasnt started yet. 
 After the brief first action sequence of the Omaha Assault you actually start boot camp. Each mission 
 in the game has hero moments in which you collect objects from the game to keep as souvenirs. Each 
 mission also has hidden objectives which you get medals for. To actually earn all these you really 
 need to play the game several times, which you can easily do because its so addictive. This game 
 can be very challenging if you play it on the harder levels. When you are injured if there is a 
 medic around he will heal you, but before you collapse you start getting blurred vision and leaning 
 back and forth. When a loud explosion hits close your ears ring and you get confused. These are 
 all great features in the game to make it more realistic. There are more the 35 single player missions 
 in this game. One level of the game that really impressed me is when you board the sinking ship. 
 There is fire all around you and explosions. You must get through the Arizona and rescue injured 
 seaman and the CO of the ship. You are brought there by boat in which you are manning a .50 cal 
 on the front shooting down invading zeros the whole time. The action in this game is non stop. 
 You have the ability to interact with almost everything. You can use mortars to take out enemy 
 soldiers and bunkers. The AI is actually intelligent and makes for an interesting and exciting 
 game. The lighting effects were absolutely breathtaking. You actually feel like you were there 
 when Pearl Harbor was attacked. Its a bit clumsy and the controls are a bit awkward for the one 
 part where you actually get to fly a plane, but you even get to do that. You start as the tail 
 gunner and the pilot bails on you leaving you to actually fly the plane to complete the mission 
 and then attempt to land the plane. Although the landing is scripted as long as you get close it 
 goes to a cut scene of you landing, but all the same it was something unique. As for the multiplayer 
 aspect of the game I really was impressed and included an invader mode which I found enjoyable. 
 Overall there just wasnt anything I didnt find fun or enjoyable about this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andremafia
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 15, 2005 11:30 am PT
Review:  Medal of Honor Pacific Assault is more one WW II shooter, but this time it's on the Pacific and 
 you are not facing Germans, you are facing the Japaneses. The Story begins when you arrive on Pearl 
 Harbor, a small and calm part on the Pacific Ocean. Of Course it will not be so calm when the Japanese 
 Empire makes a surprise attack with thousands of planes, destroying everything, first you have 
 to get to a boat to start make some anti-aircraft fire. When you board on a Pt boat you start destroying 
 some japanese planes, then you have to board on The Arizona to help defend it, once the japaneses 
 begin to retreat you have passed the first mission. There's a mission where you drive a plane too.
 
  
  
  The enemy IA is very good, you will see japaneses hidden in high grass and some times you may be 
 even ambushed. There's a part of the game when you are in deep forest, you will see Japanese's 
 bodys on the floor, you may think that they are dead but they are just prepared to ambush you. 
 One sacry thing about the Japaneses are the Kamikaze attacks, sometimes you will groups of charging 
 with katanas, knifes and all the stuff that cuts just to kill you.
  
  
  The Graphics are stunning, the model faces are very realistic, all the cenarios are very well design 
 and they look real, you can see animals on the florests....
  
  
  The Best thing on the game is that you have almost always a group of soldiers with you, I hate 
 games when you are always alone, that games are boring and they show that the war was fought by 
 a man alone what is not true.
  
  
  If you are looking for realistic action and you are sick of killing germans , MOH: Pacific Assalt 
 is the best choice....
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: vermouth
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 14, 2005 11:13 pm PT
Review:  I'm a huge fan of the Second World War in video games, from tactical stuff like Silent Storm, shooters, 
 to flight sims I'm a big fan of the largest war ever in digital form. So I was very excited to 
 dive into the Pacific Theater for the first time on the ground as a USMC Marine, in Medal of Honor 
 Pacific Assault. The Pacific theater is so underrepresented, that I was hoping high for this one; 
 however the game fails to live up to it's illustrious predecessor and just isn't a very good example 
 of World War 2 in video games. 
  
  Probably the best thing about Medal of Honor is that the graphics are pretty good. They did a great 
 job making their engine create vegetation, and soldiers the whole nine-yards that come with a Pacific 
 theater game. It's not nearly as beautiful as say Farcry which had a very similar aesthetic but 
 was just a lot better looking. Furthermore while they did a pretty good job painting the isles 
 of the Pacific they didn't do a very good job making it run smoothly. On a fairly powerful PC that's 
 ran all sorts of very high end games well, it really required some tweaking of settings to get 
 it to work right where better looking games like Half-Life 2 and Doom 3 required nothing more than 
 me setting the resolution and going at it. 
  
  The Audio in this game is possibly the one thing in the game that lives up to the Medal of Honor 
 name. It's got the usual sweeping orchestral music that goes in the background as you play the 
 game and it's very nicely edited. When you're in one of the game's few really nice moments you'll 
 know it and the music will be very good. It's easily on par with or better than the same style 
 music you'll find in the other major WW2 games. The Voice acting and sound effects are also up 
 to the name and really sound terrific in my headphones. I was most impressed with the rifle sounds 
 which were quite full and loud in my headphones to the point i had to take them off at times
  . 
  The gameplay is the worst part of this one however. It has some pretty decent shooting action 
 at times but for most of the game it's doing boring vanilla stuff in between the game's signature 
 moments. They did however try to break out from the mold on this one but they really failed to 
 top some of their competitors. For instance when you're wounded they tried something where you 
 need to apply pressure to a wound to stop the bleeding. This mechanic while somewhat realistic 
 is really just an annoying feature. Further they added a squad command feature. Trouble is these 
 are damn near useless. If you've played Brothers in Arms, freedom Fighters, or Republic Commando, 
 you know how satisfying using the squad to defeat an enemy can be but this game just pales in comparison. 
 Your squad mates aren't too smart and they often require more babysitting than they're really worth. 
 
  
  Like Most WW2 games the gameplay here consists of run and gun in between giant set piece battles. 
 This formula wouldn't be such a bad one except there are some basic problems here too. For one 
 thing, enemies being able to hide behind cover and use foliage against you sounds like a great 
 idea. Well it would have been nice had you and your squad been afforded the same kind of protection. 
 Half the time you're covered by some foliage but the Japanese just shoot right through it as if 
 they know you're there. So it ends up so that you can't see them but they can see you clear as 
 day a lot of time. Just a frustrating way to fight the run and gun battles. The team at EA should 
 get credit for really working to capture the feel of fighting in the pacific. The AI doesn't feel 
 at all the same as fighting Germans as well it shouldn't. There is a lot more close quarters combat 
 here as the Japanese are inclined to fight hand to hand, and charge if they need to in MOH: Pacific 
 Assault which is a nice realistic touch. The other really unforgivable problem in this game is 
 that the set pieces aren't terribly impressive. Landing at Tarawa, defending Henderson field on 
 Guadalcanal, and Pearl Harbor for instance were big set piece battles. For one thing If i never 
 have to shoot at airplanes with a MG again it'll be too soon. This isn't a greatly satisfying mechanic; 
 far closer to the truth is it's very frustrating as the MG's are very inaccurate. 
  
  All in all just not a terribly fun game to play, lots and lots of reloading even as early as Pearl 
 Harbor and it doesn't really get much better. If you've absolutely got to have another WW2 game 
 then this one may merit some value, and it can be had for very cheap, I only paid 8 dollars for 
 it. But this isn't as good as Allied Assault and it's clear that the real talent behind that classic 
 game has moved on and is now with Call of Duty. While Technically proficient, this one is a mixture 
 of deja vu and frustration that's not worth the few good parts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raven
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 2, 2005 4:28 am PT
Review:  I would love to start this review out with something that would capture your mind and stimulate 
 your imagination to vision what you see in this game but i'm afraid i can't. The only thing i can 
 do is give you the one phrase you will say time and time again while playing this game "OH SH**!!". 
 MOHPA finally does what a lot of people have been wanting them to do, actually grab the feel of 
 being in a squad and let the players remember and relate to your squadmates. 
  MOHPA has an interesting yet efficient gameplay that also has a chance of being almost unrecognizable. 
 In boot camp "god", who strangely resembles a drill instructor, shows you how to fight and also 
 gives you 4 commands associated with the arrow keys. Those four commands can tell your squad to 
 either give suppresing fire, assemble, retreat or assault. Through the course of the game you will 
 have multiple chances to use these commands and they actually come in handy so your squadmates 
 aren't always following behind you. Though when it comes time to start fighting the thrill of the 
 fight and the confusion of wondering where these japs are really gets you to ignore the 4 commands. 
 So even though they come in handy they really have a good chance to be ignored. The other factor 
 that really shows itself for the first time is the fact you can actually call a corpsman (medic) 
 to your position to heal you which is a very smart idea. This way you don't have to worry TOO much 
 of being shot for your corpsman can heal you but can only do it three times each time you switch 
 save points. 
  When i went into this game i expected the graphics to be the same as Allied Assault and the rest 
 of the Medal of Honor games. Though i was extremely shocked to see that they weren't. MOHPA actually 
 has very impressive graphics and the cinematics are astonishing and loads of fun to watch. Though 
 even though the graphics are excellent they aren't perfect you'll tend to see some minor clipping 
 and some bad graphics with the splashing of the water which can be overlooked easily with the rest 
 of the game. The characters lip syncing is very good and the characters will actually look at you, 
 if they aren't being shot at or looking for the enemy, when they are talking to you which enhances 
 the experience.
  The sound in this game is ranked up there with Call of Duty. It is simply spectacular not only 
 will you hear the enemy around you you'll also hear the birds chirping, the foliage snapping under 
 your feet and the sound of a soldier puking. Also, if anybody has surround sound on there computer 
 then this is the time to push play and start loving life because this game really plays well with 
 surround sound. The planes rushing by you, bullets whistling by your ear, grenades exploding near 
 you and the japs giving their battle cry. 
  Now, for once the AI in the medal of honor games is actually relatively smart. Your squadmates 
 will actually fight back and help you out as well and tend to be somewhat good shots. Though that 
 also makes the enemy even better shots for they almost always dive for the cover and tend to fire 
 with precision accuracy. Though considering the training for the japs at this time was extremely 
 harsh i don't doubt they could shoot with the best of them. The only bad factor in this game is 
 that you tend to run out of ammo quiet fast and they don't make it easy to figure out where to 
 get ammo. Little brown boxes with the red circle are dropped at different spots that blend in so 
 well with the rest of the environment that you really don't think about it being ammo. Though i 
 must say for anybody who loves the WWII genre of games and wants a good FPS then i must give my 
 vote to MOHPA for it has the cinematics to grab you and the gameplay to keep you. So saddle up 
 you maggots and get moving!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RichardW331
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 9, 2005 6:36 am PT
Review:  If you looking for a WW2 1st person shooter with ultra detail i recomend this for you, the game 
 is so detail i bought a Geforce 6800 ultra, looking at the screen is so real, i really can't get 
 any better, only 1 prob, just the couple of bugs and the HYPE multiplayer, now that is a totally 
 let down in the game, always laggy, bugs and never smooth while playing the game, even the patches 
 haven't quite solved it yet.
  
  But still a long Single player to enjoy mostly, and a brilliant game to spend your money on if 
 your looking for a good shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Canadiancowboy2
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 19, 2005 8:16 pm PT
Review:  Medal of honor Pasific Assault is a very fun game. The grafics are good and realistic, and finaly 
 the M-1 Grand has a bayonet. The pysics in this game are amazing you feel that you are acually 
 in the game. This is one of the great World War Two Shooters along side with Call of duty and the 
 expation Call of duty United offencive, Medal of Honor Allied assault and the expantion Mohaa Breakthough, 
 Brothers in arms, Call of Duty 2 that is coming out and Medal of honor Europian Assault which is 
 also coming out in 2005. Go out there to the store and get this game. and for all you Medal of 
 honor: PA you should all die because this is one of the best in the series along with allied assualt. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: codgamer2004
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 1, 2005 8:47 pm PT
Review:  You do not believe this one of the best medal of honor games in the series (I think it is) . I have 
 never felt like using my bayonet would be the only thing to let me survive. There are times when 
 the Japenese are RIGHT ON TOP OF YOU, and if you just go blasting, you will hit your men. This 
 is one of the most intense WWII games I have played. And, it has been made MUCH more realistic 
 then the other MoH games (although there are things that do happen that wouldnt happen in real 
 life, but is still fun) like when you get hit (your squad members aswell) the corpsmen (medic) 
 will come running towards you and patch you up, while you lie there, only able to watch the chaos 
 all around you. But sometimes, you wont be so lucky, and a Japanese soldier will walk up to you, 
 and finish you off. But, i cannot hide the fact that there are some bugs in this game. But, it 
 will not stop you from having a good time. And as for the computer requirements, well I must say, 
 I dont know what to say about that. This is because many say they cant run this game even with 
 pretty good computers. But as for me, well, I have a sempron 2500+, a geforce 4200 ti, and a gig 
 of ram, and i play with high settings on 1024 resolution (I know, wtf...) . Let me go over the main 
 points of this review:
  
  Gameplay- VERY fast paced, no more enamy soldiers standing out in the open! They will see you, 
 and find some better cover. Meleing the enamy is manditory for survival, because like i said, these 
 Japanese will be right on you, and besides, you will run out of ammo if you spray at every last 
 guy. And, for maybe once in the MoH series, you are not killing 1000 soldiers by yourself on these 
 little spy missions, but fighting along side a squad that can actully kill the enamy and make some 
 rather funny comments the whole game!
  Graphics- At 1024 on high settings, this game is just plain BEAUTIFUL! Some of the Best graphics 
 that are out there. And there are ragdoll physics and all. Water looks awsome. You can really see 
 the effort that was put into the graphics!
  Sound- This is MoH, do you really need to ask? You need to crank it up, and you will really feel 
 like you are in the battle. Bullets wizzing by, pining on the metal, wood, (and unfortunatly) people, 
 the explosions, sounds of the joungle, the beach, the night, its all here!
  Value- Once you have beaten in it (its pretty tough, even on normal) there will be parts you just 
 want to go back and play. To get that rush of being over run, or seeing a man down across an open 
 field with a machine gun firing and you run through it to carry the man back to the medic so he 
 can patch him up, oh yea! You might not want to go through the whole game, but there WILL BE a 
 few levels you must play through again.
  IN CONCLUSION: This is a very fast paced game that has many, many, new features to just plain make 
 you say "Wow, cool" or "Holy crap!". If you are looking for an intense WWII game that isnt compleatly 
 run and gun (the number of Japanese will be too much if you just run through their lines, and you 
 will be aware the number of times that the corpsmen can revive you, there are no health canteens.) 
 and is compleatly fun, and is the Pacific, well, this is your game. Trust me, I wouldnt waste my 
 time writing this if it wasnt one of the best games I have. Now, if you will excuse me, I need 
 to go play some MoH: PA! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 19734739732876576485538515389630-elLOCOmutha
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 4, 2005 4:53 pm PT
Review:  First of all the bad press this game has gotten is partly right and wrong.. Singleplayer immersses 
 you in battle just as well as any other game but multiplayer is something else.
  The graphics are awesome and so is the sound just the singleplayer alone is worth the cost.
  
 This game will stay on my computer for quite sometime and will be a part of my clan/Tem at www. lUSAl. com
 
  If your looking for on the edge of your seat excitement look no further its a great game that 
 will keep you going for hours.
  People that like FPS will do the game over and over and those that do not will take it off there 
 computers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alichino
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 18, 2005 6:07 pm PT
Review:  MOH: Pacific Assault
  
  The Good: Cinematic feel. Engrossing Menus. DVD Extras.
  Cinematic Feel: We all know that the line between movies and games has long since been blurred 
 into oblivion. Weve come to expect a deep story line and well managed script as part of our gaming 
 experience. MOH Allied Assault did not really have this, but then again, it didnt need it since 
 it followed so closely on the heels of Saving Private Ryan. It was not difficult to believe that 
 you were fighting in the movie along side Tom Hanks and Tom Sizemore (well maybe not him, hes 
 apparently having drug problems, he might not shoot in the right direction) . 
  Pacific Assault does a very good job of creating a believable script throughout most of the game 
 (there is one major exception to this, which I mention in the bad) . The voice acting quality is 
 good, the details of where and when things occurred from Bloody Ridge to Pearl, you get the impression 
 that the developers had some love and respect for the story they were trying to tell. And lets 
 face it, this is our best vehicle for History these days
  Engrossing Menus: The menus were a real treat. Listening to the old time radio programs, and having 
 the option of replaying and reviewing past performances. Although, even on my high end machine 
 the menus tend to eat up fps with the 3d environment superimposed across the background.
  DVD Extras: The DVD version includes a Directors Cut, which had some interaction about specific 
 details during the Pacific in WWII. Although if you were looking for historical information en 
 mass you might be a little disappointed as there is not much meat to the data they do provide.
 
  
  The Bad: Uncontrollable at times.
  Uncontrollable. Two words: The Airplane. This is probably the single biggest mistake of the whole 
 game. At one point you climb aboard a Navy fighter / bomber, man the tail gunner position and proceed 
 to destroy a plethora of weak Japanese AI airplanes. At one point you take control of this aircraft 
 and must fly itonly, you have to fly it with your mouse. Now some of you might like this (Im 
 looking in the direction of the BF1942 crowd) but frankly I dont. During the early parts of the 
 game, dragging my sorry butt through the jungles, I took my time. I wanted to savor the silent 
 approach and the attacks. But now, flying along with the mouse, trying to guide the plane in circles 
 and get good angles of attack, I found myself so frustrated that I wished that this part would 
 just end. But irony of ironies, I spent twice as long in this section of the game struggling to 
 get through it. I actually had to walk away from the computer once to cool my engines after spiraling 
 into the ocean one to many times.
  
  The Obvious: 
  Decent AI: Seem to stay oblivious to you until you get close, then attack in wave after wave. Only 
 one small issue with the AI, they hone in on you more often than your AI counterparts. Bloody Ridge 
 would be a great place to notice this as the waves of guys seem to bypass the foxholes in front 
 of you and make a bee line right to you. 
  Quality maps: Level designers should be proud of their work. Although some what linear in fashion, 
 the detail and textures, size and complexity are darn interesting.
  Quality dialog: Voice acting is good. Well written. Even in game dialog is not so overbearing and 
 obnoxious that you turn it down (things like, Good shooting dont apply ever seven secondsthank 
 the gods) .
  Good mouse response (except when flying) . 
  Good graphics. 
  Nice physics.
  
  What should change:
  FLYING. ARGH!
  Some kind of Damage Model for vehicles.
  
  Game 
 Highlight: Pearl Harbor sequence. It really is worth the purchase of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 15927
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 17, 2005 10:27 pm PT
Review:  I think this was the best Medal of Honor game yet but it could have been better. One of the problems 
 with this game is the high requirements to play. If you don't have a newer computer then don't 
 bother. I have a geforce 4 graphics card and was still getting lag on singleplayer. Another problem 
 like with all medal of honor games is getting you shot in the perfect spot. If you don't get them 
 in the head it could take like 5 or 6 shots to put them down. This game also has no singleplayer 
 replay value if you ask me. After the fist time through I was done with it.
  Difficulty- The number of shots it takes to kill someone can make this game quite hard
  Learning 
 Curve- Getting used to the jungle enviornment can take awile for new and experienced gamers alike
 
  Time- There are about 10 hrs of gameplay which isn't too bad, and where most medal of honor games 
 would have let of this one seems to go on farther
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sniper
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 2, 2005 3:23 pm PT
Review:  Medal of Honor Pacific Assault is one of the best history-based action games out there. The recreation 
 of Pearl Harbor is spectacular, the battles on Guadalcanal remind me of the movie Thin Red Line, 
 and the assault on Tarawa is so intense, I felt like digging in, beneath my computer monitor.
 
  
  Complaints? Theres no blood or gore. I dont mean to seem morbid, but the Pacific Theatre of Operations 
 was a terrible war of extermination, with no quarter given on either side. The game stops short 
 of reflecting this reality by sanitizing death, with men merely falling down. Their bodies disappear, 
 instead of stacking up in grizzly piles. This is an M-rated game, so theres no reason to protect 
 a mature audience from witnessing the real consequences of battle.
  
  A less minor complaint is that the aircraft piloting sequences are somewhat difficult to control, 
 although this isnt a big deal.
  
  Neither of these concerns is enough to prevent Pacific Assault from becoming one of my favorite 
 games of all time. The intermingled, excited voices of the men during each fight, the gunfire, 
 explosions, dense jungle, satisfying weapons, beautiful scenery, excellent pacing... I could rave 
 on and on. Buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fireblazerx
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 17, 2005 6:50 am PT
Review:  When Medal of Honor: Allied Assault was the first installment for the PC Medal of Honor series. 
 It was one of those games that was incredible addicting, great graphics, and superb sound. After 
 2 expansion packs were released in the earlier years, Medal of Honor: Pacific Assault arrived with 
 a blast. Pacific Assault is a game that drives you directily into the core action gameplay. The 
 story is heart-warming and very nice to watch. As more as you progress through the game, your actions 
 affect your story.
  
  As soon as you start the game, you are in a landing craft and about to invade a Japanese beach. 
 Before this happens, though, there is a short little cintematic that begins the great story. Once 
 you land on the deadly beach, you and some allied soldiers are confronted by hordes of Japanese 
 soldiers. The heavy fire from the enemies forces you and some soldiers to take cover under a bridge. 
 As soon as you are under the bridge, a gernade is thrown at you and explodes, which causes you 
 to "relive" your boot-camp training. Obviously, this is the tutorial in which you meet your actual 
 squad members throughout the game. After the tutorial, you finally wake up and then move onto the 
 next mission.
  
  The fast-paced gameplay is very intense and makes you want to take cover all through the game. 
 The Japanese enemies that you will be facing are tough-neck soldiers and show no mercy at all. 
 Infact, once you manage to swift through the bullets and get next to the Japanese soldiers, you 
 will be either swarmed by bonzai charges and strong bashes. The Japanese soldiers will gut you 
 with their bayonet until you are down and out on the floor. Once you get onto the floor and are 
 waiting for assistance by a medic, you are watching the world go by you as the mortars splash the 
 ground with intense heat blasts. If the medic doesn't get to you first, the enemy will. Once an 
 enemy notices that you are lying on the ground, he will use his weapon and either shoot you or 
 stab you to assure your death. The core gameplay itself is so much fun and is one of the highlights 
 of this great game. 
  
  One of the major issues with the game is that Pacific Assault does not run all smoothly thoughout 
 the game, even with a fast computer. There is major lag on the multiplayer servers that makes multiplayer 
 games very tough to play. The loading times aren't that bad, but that doesn't make up for the large 
 lag. Although the game isn't always as you expect it to be, it gets really fun when there are crazy 
 firefights. It seems as though you are outnumbered by hundreds of soldiers on the battlefields, 
 because literally, it's basically you and around 3 to 4 guys against many soldiers. And these soldiers 
 are not simple easy to kill, their AI is on an amazing level and have deadly accurate aim. Even 
 on the easy mode, it is very hard to eleminate your opponents. There are a couple occasions where 
 you are with around lots of allied soldiers and have to clear an area. These parts are the best 
 parts in the game. It gets really fun here, because there is just bullets whizzing across you at 
 nearly all times in these firefights.
  
  The graphics in Pacific Assault use a new graphics engine that other previous installments of Medal 
 of Honor on the PC. The graphics are crisp and very nice looking, but it's not always remarkable. 
 The best detail is probaly when looking upclose on soldiers' faces. Their faces have a large amount 
 of color and texture. The bushes and trees is a little nitch that is really keeping the grahpics 
 from standing out to where it could be. They look very "untextured" but suit well to the jungle 
 environment that you will almost always be seeing. Land, sea, and air veichles have a nice feel 
 to it and are very well done.
  
  If you look at the sea during naval battles, the sea looks absoloutely stunning. From the shadows 
 of naval aircrafts to the slight "marking" of ships on the sea, it just looks very nice. The lighting 
 effects are very great looking and doesn't need any work at all. You'd just wish that everything 
 looks as fascinating as the sea and soldiers' faces. Even though everything is not as colorful 
 as you'd hope, the grahpics still proive a great look to the game. Especially during huge battles, 
 the grahpics are really shown out to it's best. The mortar explosions look intense, aircraft weapons 
 and bullets look stunning, and it justs looks "cool" during battles.
  
  The sound is probaly the greatest thing about Pacific Assault. If you played Allied Assault, then 
 you understand what i'm talking about. Allied Assault has sounds exactly like the critically acclaimed 
 gory movie, "Saving Private Ryan." Pacific Assault is almost no different. The music is almost 
 as good as the Saving Private Ryan soundtrack, itself. The real show of the sound is during combat. 
 The sounds of the rattling weapons and bullets are the sharpest i've ever heard. They weapons do 
 not sound over-powered or under-powered and have the right feel to it. For instance, certain powerful 
 maching guns have a piercing sound but is not louder than weapons like MG-42s. The rattling of 
 the crazy gunfire is so intense that you may want to get the best speakers to get even a slightly 
 "better" sound that what it already is.
  
  The value of Pacific Assault is quite impressive. Since actions slightly effect the story, you 
 may want to re-try levels and do certain tasks that will either improve or lower your overall "score." 
 You are earned things like medals and have a "history" book where all your shots that you fired, 
 locations of shots, and things like that are stored into this book. Although the multiplayer has 
 the bad lag, it is still pretty fun. The highest difficultly levels are extremely tough and should 
 be tried to those who are real veterans of the game. It is so hard that even the best of players 
 will most likely have a very hard time completely even one or two levels.
  
  Overall, Medal of Honor Pacific Assault is a unique game with a unique stlye that should greatly 
 be appreciated. This game is approachable to people who like to play shooters on the PC. I also 
 highly reccomend Pacific Assault to those who have played Medal of Honor: Allied Assault and Call 
 of Duty. Pacific Assault is done with great achievement and is one of the better World War II themed 
 shooters out there. To sum everything all up, Medal of Honor: Pacific Assault is an intense "fierce" 
 in itself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrwiggles11
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 10, 2005 10:29 pm PT
Review:  
  I will begin by stating that I am a fan of the Medal of Honor series and was generally pleased 
 with this new installment.
  In Medal of Honor Pacific Assault you are a soldier (Tommy Conlin) , and you have been enlisted 
 by your country to fight on the Japanese front. You fight in varying locals and are constantly 
 being bombarded by knife slashing Japanese soldiers who will stop at nothing in defense of their 
 nation. You begin the game at Pearl Harbor and end on an assault of your post boot-camp flashback. 
 The Japanese forces hide in the bushes and are quite camouflaged and can do much harm if youre 
 not careful. They also hide in tree tops and perform flanks on your squadron. It is rare to find 
 a health pack so you will be relying on your corpsman as your savior. You should watch your ammunition 
 because it can run out quite quickly if you spray and pray. The game offers many interesting 
 battles and locals with varying events. The weapons in Pacific Assault are basically pacific variations 
 of their European counter-parts. I found myself constantly using the Thompson which was quite over-powering 
 its other machine/sub-machine gun counter-parts. There is an interesting part of the game when 
 you are in a plane swooping down and raiding various Japanese naval bases which can be fun at first, 
 but becomes quite annoying due to the difficulty at aiming at these ant-like targets from hundreds 
 of feet in the air. The game at higher difficulties can get quite challenging so you should not 
 rush into the action. The game is quite fun and handles similar to other Medal of Honor games. 
 Usually jungle atmosphere games take a lot out on a video card but if you have a 128MB card you 
 will be fine with Medal of Honor Pacific Assault. 
  
  The game-play of Pacific Assault is much like any first person shooter. You use your crosshair 
 (mouse) to aim at varying structures or Japanese soldiers. You are able to crawl, crouch and jump 
 which always adds diversity to the game experience. You can save whenever you want which makes 
 the game a little more easier. The game is quite fun and has generally simple controls that allow 
 you to immerse yourself further in the tropical backdrop. 
  
  The graphics of Medal of Honor Pacific Assault are very good at best. The game takes a lot out 
 on your video card and even has some slowdown on my computer with 1GB of ram. The luscious greens 
 and swamp-like and clear waters of the eastern world are quite amazing to look at on the high graphic 
 level. The ships and planes are quite decent and what I noticed looked quite nice was the sunset 
 across the horizon during various video sequences. The characters' detail is very well done and 
 looks quite realistic, especially the facial expressions in the video sequences. There is some 
 slowdown when a lot of enemies are on the screen or when a huge explosion occurs but otherwise 
 the graphics are crisp and are generally up to date.
  
  The sound is well done. The bombs dropping make a lot of noise which can scare you at times if 
 youre really immersed in the game. The gun-fire sounds pretty realistic and there is even sound 
 when you whack someone with the butt of your weapon. The music is the highlight of the sound crew 
 and is very well done. There is a variety of radio broadcasts and songs of the time frame.
  
  Overall the game is a sure catch for a fan of the series and is definitely a welcoming experience 
 to the novice medal seeker. The game contains an online mode through the EA registration system 
 and can be quite fun if the teams are fair. If there is an imbalance in the teams the game is a 
 total massacre with knife stabbing intentions. The online portion also offers a nice stat tracking 
 system which some servers have enabled. Here you can track your kills, deaths, rank and other memorable 
 statistics. The game is a fun experience and I would recommend that all fans add this game to their 
 collection and that new-comers of the series should at least attempt to obtain The Medal of Honor.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: satori
Rating: 6.3
Date: Feb 9, 2005 2:50 am PT
Review:  As long as I did not try and stray from the path that the game set out I was fine. Many times I 
 found myself walking along paths that would not allow for any sort of exploration. Flanking the 
 enemy was possible at times, but often it was a case of being walled in. 
  At times the enemy AI just stood and did nothing. I found that sometimes if I did the wrong thing 
 the enemy would become invincible and impossible to kill despite taking a full clip of ammo they 
 would keep coming. During aerial combat at the start planes were dead simple to kill, by the time 
 I hit the last 2 planes above the carrier they were impossible. 
  On the plus side I was impressed by the story and the attention to detail in many places. Throwing 
 a flight sim in was a really nice touch. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RacinJason
Rating: 7.2
Date: Mar 16, 2006 7:00 pm PT
Review:  This game could be great except for a few things that really bring the game down.
  
  Gameplay-While there are a few moments that are fun in the game, they are overshadowed by the terrible 
 trial and error gameplay. You will be quicksaving every chance you get and quickloading all the 
 time because this game is hard. If not for quicksaving the game would be unbeatable. So hopefully 
 you have a fast computer so your load times are quick because you will be looking at the loading 
 screens a lot. The enemy AI is great, they find cover, attack in waves, throw grenades to flush 
 you out, and charge you. You squad AI is good at times, they will kill the enemy, move for cover, 
 but then they will get in your way, and step into you field of fire. The environments are really 
 cool, but very liner. There is a nice selection of WWII firearms to use and all seem to work well. 
 For a change of pace they put a level in the game where you have to fly a plane. You actually start 
 out in the tail gunners seat but the pilot gets shot and you bravely clime out of the gunners seat, 
 slide over the canopy, and get into the pilot seat. I'm not sure why they put this level into a 
 first person shooter game. Now driving a ground based vehicle like a take is more logical to me. 
 And flying the plane with the mouse sucks, this is something that should of just been left out.
 
  
  Graphics-The grahpics look good, the environments look really great, the characters also look good.
 
  
  Sound-As with all the Medal of Honor games they have great sound, all the guns sound correct and 
 the explosions sound good. The background music is also good, but a little to bland.
  
  Value-I don't play multiplayer so I'm probably never going to play this game again, the gameplay 
 just killed it for me. The game was more stressful then fun.
  
  Tilt-If you want a really challenging game with a lot of trial and error gameplay this game is 
 for you. If you don't like reloading the game 15-20 times until you pass the part your stuck on 
 don't get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: step2ice
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jan 26, 2005 4:34 pm PT
Review:  I first made contact with Medal of Honor on the Playstation 1.
  Back in the days this game had brought a fresh style in the genre and can be named as an instant 
 classic.
  Pacific Assault today isn't this great experience anymore.
  First I will start by the graphics. I don't know but it seems thats it's an unwritten rule that 
 no EA game has to run fluidly.
  PA makes no change here.
  Even on high end machines you get frame drops in many locations.
  For the graphic quality I can 
 say that it's good in the most levels.
  As I started and played the first levels I was pretty surprised that it wasn't shoot everything 
 right from the start.
  Actually you get a feeling that you are just one soldier under hundreds. And that is exactly how 
 I hoped MoH PA will be. Unfortunately this gets dropped after the first three mission. As soon 
 as you get into the jungle fights it gets really repetetive and boring.
  The AI of the soldiers isn't that bad but ain't that good either.
  There will be often situations 
 where your teammates run in open MG fire and you can do nothing about it.
  Thats where I felt I couldn't really command my squad cause the four commands I had seemed way 
 to less.
  Another big negative is the amount of damage your guys and even the enemys can take.
  So one 
 guy of you gets shot ten times by the enemy with no effect, pretty stupid.
  Also sometimes enemys seem to take five or six direct hits till they get down.
  Plus you can't 
 shot through wood or japanese cabins.
  So you are in the jungle and there is one guy behind a little knob, you hit the knob and the bullet 
 won't get through. Well, thats just disconcerting .
  But the low point is reached when you have to do the plane mission. 
  Yeah you control a plane, 
 sounds funny, unfortunately it isn't.
  To keep it short, the graphics a catatrophal, the speed is slow, the controls feel clumsy and especially 
 the aircrafcarrier objective is completely messed up.
  It's just one thing they better had left out.
  
  
  So in the end there are some missions 
 and moments worth playing but if you in for an good squad based shooter I would suggest you wait 
 what Brothers in Arms will have to offer.
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: keyf
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 22, 2005 2:17 am PT
Review:  I found this game to be very enjoyable. Sure the WWII gaming world is becoming heavily populated, 
 but MoH PA contains enough variance to make it a worthwhile investment, especially the DVD version 
 which contains some veteran interviews and other bonus material. I like the shift to the Pacific 
 theater. Pearl Harbor has some heart touching moments. Some reviewers have commented that the jungle 
 missions are repetitive but I am sure the men who were there got tired of looking at trees too. 
 Some have also mentioned the load times, I didn't mind the loads between missions but they are 
 a bit long when you are reloading from getting killed. Still, it is tolerable and should not keep 
 anyone from playing the game. I also enjoy the CoD series but their gameplay seem to be very short 
 in comparison. PA seems like it will never end, I kept expecting the game to end and up popped 
 another mission. The use of the medic instead of randomly placed health packs is also a nice touch. 
 All in all, I highly recommend this game to any WWII or 'realistic' fps buff. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Loco-Ed
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 18, 2005 9:33 am PT
Review:  The game itself is GREAT as the rest of the Medal of Honor Series were!!
  
  My only disappointment with the game was the fact that a lot of the tall grass and surrounding 
 foliage, trees etc werent very useable (for hiding in!!) and as normal with these type games where 
 your fighting in a team your buddy running in front of you as ur suppressing the enemy (Seems that 
 its always the Corpsman just when you could use a bit of TLC!! LOL)
  
  Overall the game is great and I would definitely recommend to people who love fast game play with 
 great graphics and effects and first person shooters! I look forward to any expansions if there 
 are any planned.
  
  Ed
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Visi0naries
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 12, 2005 6:01 am PT
Review:  The Medal of Honor series has always been such a good WWII shooter, since it boasts fun multi-player, 
 and sometimes an engaging single-player. Allied Assault was a great installment in the series, 
 and it definitely proved to be one of the greatest WWII shooters of all time. Now that Pacific 
 Assault is hot off the floor, is it worth the money to buy and play for a while?
  
  This time around, in Pacific Assault, you assume the role of a U. S. marine, named Thomas Conlin. 
 Obviously, you'll be controlling him through the famous battles of WWII, and he's even got a couple 
 of squad members and groups to boot. You start off in a training level, and the game pretty much 
 teaches you the fundamentals of the game... simple fundamentals to be specific. Not only that, the 
 training level is quite long, but that doesn't really pull away the action all that much. After 
 heading through the training level, you'll be put in right in the heat of battle, and be ready 
 to follow the current events that are going around you. This is usually how every Medal of Honor 
 game starts, so it's no surprise to a veteran to notice any of this stuff.
  
  Throughout the game, you'll be able to possess a variety of weapons that were used in the battles 
 of WWII, and you got a bunch of weapons from regular pistols to rifles, and sub machine guns. You 
 got nearly the whole arsenal, which puts a bit of strategy into the game, figuring out what weapon 
 to use for each enemy. Pacific Assault allows you to carry 2 weapons, one "one-hander" weapon, 
 and a big gun, which are usually rifles and stuff like that. It gives the game a more realistic 
 feel, instead of being able to carry an infinite amount of guns all at once. Explosives like grenades 
 are also back, but they have a bit of a weird feel to them. They bounce like rubber balls when 
 thrown, and being able to aim at your target takes a bit of skill. They are a necessity though 
 because throughout the game you'll be surrounded by numerous enemies, which will bring the grenade 
 to use, especially in close quarters... as long as you don't injure or kill yourself in the process. 
 
  
  New to the Medal of Honor series is what we call a "corpsman". This person is simply a well-equipped 
 medic with many first aid and bandages. If you're injured or severely injured, or just fall during 
 combat, you can call the corpsman to come and heal you up and about. Although once you fall or 
 die, you're vision starts to go out of order, turns black and white, and a bunch of echos will 
 be sounding through your mind. Adds to the realistic feel of the game, but even at that, the corpsman 
 cant always help you. If the corpsman is injured or healing somebody else, you could just be left 
 there, lying and dying from blood loss. Either that, or an enemy can just shoot you right then 
 and there and simply kill you, no sweat. This new system offers a bit of strategic elements, so 
 you can't just call the corpsman every time you suffer even the slightest wounds. It's a nice touch 
 to see something new, and it's quite well done.
  
  Pacific Assault is quite a challenging game, but for some, it might be too challenging. Once again 
 strategic elements are definitely going to be needed. Taking cover behind objects and other items 
 is going to be used throughout all the levels in the game, so veterans of the Medal of Honor series, 
 and even from other shooting games will be able to get familiar with this tactic quickly enough.
 
  
  Pacific Assault's multi-player is a good way to get your fun going after finishing up single-player, 
 but there's really not many options or modes for multi-player. There are only available modes in 
 Pacific Assault... the all to familiar Free For All, Team Deathmatch, and an Invasion mode. All 
 the modes are fun to play for the first few hours, but you'll feel like wanting more through the 
 multi-player. There isn't much multi-player has to really offer, except bigger maps, but for people 
 that are familiar with these maps, they can be able to use the exploits in the maps to their advantage. 
 Medal of Honor's multi-player component needs a real upgrade soon.
  
  For the graphics, Pacific Assault doesn't necessarily disappoint. You got good looking backgrounds 
 and the weapon and character details look above average. There are quite a few clipping issues, 
 like being able to see people's guns through doors, which might spoil the fun for some people... especially 
 if it's online. You'll also experience a few minor exploits in some levels, but the graphics has 
 it's work cut out.
  
  The audio and sound for Pacific Assault is easily the best audio and sound ever heard on almost 
 ANY shooter to date. A resplendent orchestrated soundtrack brings in the experience and detail 
 of Pacific Assault, like all the other MOH games. The voice acting in Pacific Assault is wonderfully 
 done, and it adds more feel to the reality of the game.
  
  Medal of Honor: Pacific Assault is a well-done game that can have alot going for it. What really 
 brings this game down is the fact that multi-player hasn't really changed, as it's still nearly 
 the same. Some exploits, glitches, and clipping issues really downgrade the game, simply because 
 there's nearly alot of them, and they can be used online to give the player the advantage and upper-hand 
 on all the other players. The single-player is challenging, but rather short and sometimes a bit 
 tedious. But really, Medal of Honor: Pacific Assault is still a very good game. It's got great 
 graphics, superb sound, and the single-player is rather good itself, except for it's flaws although. 
 If you're looking for some good WWII action to keep you on the edge of your seat, you really can't 
 go wrong with Medal of Honor: Pacific Assault. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 7.2
Date: Dec 17, 2004 2:17 pm PT
Review:  Medal of Honor: Pacific Assault, at times, has some excellent action, and these are the times that 
 make it worth playing. Unfortunately, it has a handful of really bad sequences, and the most annoying 
 loading times of any PC game.
  
  Medal of Honor: Pacific Assault, when its on, when youre actually playing the darn thing, can 
 be tense, exciting, and thrilling. But, often, you are looking at a progress bar instead. Hoooooooo, 
 boy does this game suffer from loading times. I would have to say that this game has the worst 
 ratio of loading screen to gameplay time that I have ever experienced. The bad loading times 
 amplify the incredibly annoying quick save/reload fests that you get into near the end of the game, 
 which leaves you with a bitter taste in your mouth about this game. 
  
  To some degree, Pacific Assault follows other World War 2 games like Allied Assault and Call of 
 Duty. The game is mostly linear, and it contains a lot of mayhem mixed in with scripted events. 
 However, this is definitely not just another World War 2 game. It is different in some good ways. 
 
  
  For starters, Pacific Assaults on-foot action is less scripted than other WWII games have been. 
 The jungle firefights remind me a lot of last years Vietcong than Allied Assault. You creep 
 slowly through the jungle and encounter small groups of Japanese troops, and then engage them in 
 short but sweet firefights. The firefights are mostly unscripted, relying instead upon this games 
 underrated AI. Both your squad mates and your enemies are pretty smart about staying alive and 
 using cover. Its such a relief to actually have a squad that knows how to avoid getting cut down 
 by a machine gun. Its very satisfying to relieve your pinned down squad by finding a way to flank 
 your enemies, and then blast them from their rear. Sometimes, the hardest part of a firefight is 
 just finding where the enemy is hiding. Using cover is paramount to surviving, and so is popping 
 out from behind cover to deliver quick blasts with your weapon. Enemies will attempt to do the 
 same to you. However, sometimes, when you are winning a battle, the last couple of guys in a Japanese 
 squad will rush at you screaming in a mad, desperate Banzai frenzy. This leads to some truly memorable 
 moments. 
  
  The medic is a great mechanic that seems to borrow from games like Halo and Vietcong. The idea 
 is that instead of picking up frequent health packs and armor, you can be healed if you find some 
 safe cover for a while. This adds a tactical level to the game that most first person shooters 
 dont have. 
  
  The jungle scenes are the best part of this game in every way. It's too bad that you have to play 
 the game for an hour and a half before you experience them. That's how long it takes you to get 
 through the tutorial level and the disappointing Pearl Harbor level. The game mixes up the action 
 quite a bit. Specifically, there are rail-shooter and turret-shooter sequences sprinkled here and 
 there, where you shoot at enemies while riding in the back of a truck or operate an anti-aircraft 
 gun and shoot down Japanese Zeroes. There is even a flying mission. None of these other missions 
 are particularly memorable, and some of them are quite bad. There is one ridiculous "shoot down 
 Zeroes with an AA gun" scene that is literally impossible until you learn that there is a lame 
 trick that makes it easy to complete in about 60 seconds. It takes dozens of trial-and-error quick 
 save and reload sequences to learn this (or, you can look on the internet for it) , and this totally 
 ruins that part of the game. 
  
  Medal of Honor: Pacific Assault has a nice presentation to go along with its exciting action. The 
 visuals arent as nice as Half-Life 2 or Far Cry, but they are still very good. The water, fire, 
 and smoke, all look very nice. Best of all is the most beautiful and realistic looking sky that 
 I have ever seen. The jungle is also very convincing. The music is sort of generic, but its high 
 quality stuff. Best of all, the game feels very authentic. It maintains the high drama of the other 
 World War 2 games, while giving it a different feel too.
  
  The campaign ends after about 10 hours, which isn't very long, considering that at least 2 or 3 
 of them are spent looking at the loading screen. The way that the loading screens disrupt this 
 game's flow cannot be understated. The ending is also horribly unsatisfying. I absolutely hated 
 the ending level of this game with a passion. Up until the last level, the game is mostly a satisfying 
 challenge. The last level is a maddeningly and impossibly difficult, unforgving quick save fest 
 where you are constantly getting cut down by two or three machine gun nests at a time, all of which 
 can reduce you from full health to zero in about two seconds. The entire last two hours of the 
 game is filled with trial-and-error and trying to scamper from cover to cover in increments of 
 about three feet, reloading your game constantly as you get cut down in one second or get ambushed 
 by a turret that opens fire on you that you didn't see before. The last level is filled with barbed 
 wire (which you cannot climb over) and invisible walls, which funnel you into these death trap 
 trenches that have machine gun nests awaiting you at the end, and absolutely no alternate path. 
 The game gives you no flamethrower or bazooka, and no ability to call in naval strikes. The design 
 for this level is abysmal, and it's a shame that the awesome jungle levels are overshadowed by 
 this frustrating turd in the punch bowl.
  
  Give Pacific Assault a look, at least. There's enough good stuff in here to make it worth checking 
 out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sadius_Dread
Rating: 7.4
Date: Dec 13, 2004 7:43 am PT
Review:  Clearly graphics were worked on in great detail by the programmers and on an acceptable gaming 
 machine, this shows the excellent work done for this aspect of the game. The intermittant storyline 
 between actual game play is also well done. The greatest weakness with the game is the arcade shooter- 
 like aspect of playing and I especially noted the predictable lines of fire with little or no variaton 
 in the execution of the AI attacks. It is unclear if this was done intentionally to allow some 
 ability for the gamer to finish the stage of play or is an oversight by the programming team with 
 the AI. Also some of the segments are just not very interesting and it would be nice to bypass 
 cetain stages per the player's desire. The player should be allowed to choose the type of play 
 the player wishes to participate in. Afterall, this is a game which is intended to be fun for the 
 player and not a chore. I for instance, had no desire to counterflood a sinking ship in the Pearl 
 Harbor attack and would sooner skip that segment then being forced to play it over and over until 
 it was concluded to move on in the story game line. I have not tried multiplayer play yet but there 
 is potential promise for this and will eagerly look forward to this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jgoudy
Rating: 6.3
Date: Dec 8, 2004 3:38 pm PT
Review:  After plunking down $40 for this game, I had high hopes of seeing something new and exciting. Instead, 
 all I saw was the same basic game with some graphical improvements (maybe those people with super 
 high end graphic cards might see more of an improvement) . The AI, while touted to be much improved, 
 is average at best. Your squad members do a better job of attacking the enemy, but really they 
 mostly just follow you and wait for you to take the first shot before they come running. That was 
 a disappointment. A HUGE disappointment is that your squad members CANNOT die!! That's right... you 
 can enter a battle area, have your squad members engage the enemy and then back out and let your 
 squad finish them off - because they can't die! They can get shot and fall down, but they eventually 
 get healed by the medic and then they'll get back up and fight! Truly unfortunate. It makes the 
 game less realistic but I suppose it makes it bearable as some of the gun battles can be intense 
 and difficult to beat. 
  
  You can't get into any vehicles to drive them... you have to hop in a few to hitch a ride, but you 
 can't get into a truck or jeep or anything - a MAJOR disappointment yet again.
  
  While the graphics are very good, they're not great. There are several places throughout the game 
 where the jungle underbrush clips or doesn't look right. Battlefield Vietnam does a better job 
 with their jungle graphics than this game. 
  
  The sounds are superb... and make the game bearable. However, this is expected with ANY game these 
 days as sounds are not hard to create. 
  
  Overall, this game is not worth the $40 I spent... I would have probably have spent $30 but no more 
 than that. 
  
  Battlefield 1942 and Battlefield Vietnam are FAR better overall games in this genre right now. 
 The Medal of Honor series has a lot of catching up to do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nohabs
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 1, 2004 4:45 pm PT
Review:  This game offers some of the best, intense, battles yet. So why do I say conflicting mix. For starters 
 I was expecting better graphics, they are not bad, but don't stack up to Far Cry. The map is very 
 limited and too linear, many battles offer no alternative attack routes. The load times are outragiously 
 slow. With that out of the way I can say P. A. does offer some very good gaming. You don't have 
 a ton of ammo or health which brings it to a slightly more realistic feel. You can expect to be 
 attacked quite offen, so be ready. The sound is also excellent. I can't comment on multiplayer mode 
 because I didn't try it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Magoga
Rating: 7.2
Date: Nov 29, 2004 2:11 am PT
Review:  I got this game a few days ago and the first impression was very good. Pearl Harbor was a very 
 good start to the game and got me interested. But the ferther I got into the game, the more I realized 
 that if EA tried just a bit harder it could have been one of the best games of the year. The graphics 
 are okay, but are very demanding of your system. The sound, like alaways in Medal of Honor is great 
 and well done. The most disappointing thing in this game was the gameplay. Some missions are just 
 annoying and the whole time you're playing them, you're thinking "when is this going to end". It 
 is very repetitive and you see yourself doing similar things the entire game. The Japanese A. I. 
 in this game is pretty well done, ocasionally they will toss grenades and bonzai charge you. In 
 all Medal of Honor games, friendly A. I. is horrible. Your friendlies often times shoot at walls, 
 and seem like robots. I was very disappointed with the length of this game. It is far too short 
 and is not worth your 50 dollars. I easily beat it in 2 days. I haven't really tried the multiplayer 
 yet and have no coment on it. I think that sticking to the older and supirior Call of Duty games 
 than buing this, but if you have extra $50 then you might want to buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterMarcus
Rating: 7.6
Date: Nov 20, 2004 9:40 pm PT
Review:  Pacific Assault is an overall very good WWII experience, specifically located in the Pacific jungles 
 which is a theme underused next to Europe. It compares advantageously to most Vietnam shooters 
 for that matter. The developers have succeeded in order to create well crafted environments through 
 a linear layout, maybe too linear in the jungles. Most importantly, they've kept a part ( not all 
 ) of the original Medal of Honor feeling of rude authenticity through intense battles, music, and 
 cinematic sequences maintaining the whole..... worthy of the franchise. However, like all Pacific-Vietnam 
 shooters, the game just doesn't match the best titles setted in Europe ( original MoH, Call of 
 Duty ) . The other part of the game not reminiscent of the original, is more related to the flow 
 of the gameplay which is heavily influenced by the obligatory Call of Duty/Battlefield mechanics: 
 not a bad thing at all, the game is indeed an amalgam of many successful WWII titles of the recent 
 years. It just needed more polish.
  
  The gameplay is sometimes crippled by some clipping issues, either when stucked through various 
 obstacles and your comrades. Your mates can be more of a nuisance when you seem to be permanently 
 stucked into one of them just in front of the Japs charging you. Of course this is related to the 
 graphical engine, we can see occasional permutations too and some glitches like that at close range; 
 yet the rest of the engine, namely texturing and background effects are really great, professionally 
 done. The skybox is a beauty. Jungle coloring is tamed, almost realistic and the opponents are 
 hard to see at long range distance ( even medium range ) . You see them clearly only when you're 
 near, and though this adds a realistic feeling to the jungle combat, as a video game Pacific Assault 
 is.... not a FUN game to play at heart: It is more frustrating for the casual gamer. Until the player 
 has to know exactly how to clean nested enemies/machine guns in a specific area, it can be a frustrating 
 experience to save & reload countless times. And yes, the loading times are maybe a bit too long 
 but not that much ( let's being honest and objective, they aren't any longer than Half-Life 2's 
 ) .
  
  Interestingly, the audio of the game is a true testimony to the overall franchise and very impressive, 
 the various weapons sounds as well as the musical score. While some level transitions can be questionable 
 ( like finishing Guadalcanal and going into the air missions ) , the music and background drama 
 seem to always save the day. Now we still witness - and hear! - one of the most recognizable features 
 of the MoH franchise having so much influence to the drama experience a good Medal of Honor title 
 should offer, and Pacific Assault continues the tradition. However, some stuttering can be experienced 
 namely during those dreaded loading times ( again, don't worry, it can be irritating but no more, 
 it's fairly minor ) .
  
  Although many seem to consider the single player campaign a tad short, the 12 hours or so it took 
 me the first time is the same amount of content than most of the competitors. The jungle scenery 
 seems even too long compared to the real dramatic sequences, but that's mainly due to the fairly 
 conventional design. The action is always present, and despite some stuttering here and there, 
 the atmospheric drama of the franchise is preserved. Pacific Assault has interesting MP maps too; 
 sadly they needed some extra time of polish perhaps. Lags are common depending on which servers 
 you try, and the game can be compared to Spearhead/Breakthrough for that matter, i. e. a great try 
 yet never reaching the same level of quality found in the original Allied Assault, or Call of Duty. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobbygr
Rating: 4.4
Date: Nov 18, 2004 9:58 pm PT
Review:  The single player portion of this game is nothing more than the single player Quake 3 Team arena 
 in a military setting.
  
  You run from "arena" to "arena" in a deathmatch type game - and kill everyone in that arena.
 
  
  Once you kill everyone in the arena - you advance to the next arena - and do the whole process 
 over again.
  
  It's repetative and gets boring very quickly.
  
  Save yourself some money and look for military type maps for quake 3 or quake 3 team arena. 
 
  
  The only diffence is - in this game you don't respawn when you get killed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Saint_Francis
Rating: 7.3
Date: Oct 12, 2006 12:14 pm PT
Review:  I've always supported the Medal of Honor series, specifically Allied Assault and Spearhead for 
 PC. Now, we have Pacific Assault to chew on.
  
  Overall, Pacific Assault is quite like no other WWII FPS. Nothing comes quite close to equalling 
 what it has to offer in graphics or new features to the series. The boost in graphics was expected, 
 as it's natural to assume the way games look will improve with time. Added features like calling 
 on a corpsman in the heat of battle for healing, or commanding your squad during a successful maneuvre, 
 all help take you into the moment. The little things like personalizing your sqaumates and evolving 
 their story towards you helps create immersion. It's all good, right?
  
  The major problem Pacific Assault has to contend with is that the title has more than its fair 
 share of very frustrating situations in the game that interrupt much of the positives mentioned 
 above, since they happen so often; this on 'Medium' difficulty setting. Hope you don't mind reloading 
 over and over again, as you're going to become too well accustomed with your quickload key. You're 
 going to wonder at times why and how would the game designers want to put us, the paying public, 
 through such an exercise in annoyance at times. You will cuss their names time and again.
  
  Then, you will either continue through the hard times the game puts you through - much like 
 the US Marine Corps, or look for some sort of refund - like the rest of us civilians.
  
  In summary, I have a feeling we'll all say, 'This is what Pacific Assault should have been like!' 
 once the expansion is released. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bhame
Rating: 6.3
Date: Nov 15, 2004 2:13 am PT
Review:  ... Please wait while Review Text loads...
  
  ... Please wait while Review Text loads...
  
  ... Please wait while Review Text loads...
  
  ... Please wait while Review Text loads...
 
  
  ... Please wait while Review Text loads...
  
  ... Please wait while Review Text loads...
  
  ... Please wait while Review Text loads...
  
 
  ... Please wait while Review Text loads...
  
  Loading times, loading times, loading times! Ugh, how pathetic and annoying!!!
  
  ... Please 
 wait while Review Text loads...
  
  ... Please wait while Review Text loads...
  
  ... Please wait while Review Text loads...
  
  ... Please wait while Review Text loads...
  
 
  ... Please wait while Review Text loads...
  
  ... Please wait while Review Text loads...
  
  Annoyed yet? Well this is nothing compared to playing the game... er, um... I mean waiting to 
 play for the game as you'll wait as much as you game!
  
  ... Please wait while Review Text loads...
  
  ... Please wait while Review Text loads...
  
 
  ... Please wait while Review Text loads...
  
  ... Please wait while Review Text loads...
  
  Level design is extremely repetitive. 
  The game is overhyped.
  The AI *can* be impressive, 
 as well as it can make you scratch your head.
  
  I can honestly say this is the most uninspired, disappointing MoH game yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RLJSlick
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 13, 2004 7:09 am PT
Review:  Once again, Medal of Honor, hits new heights in realism and game play. Medal of Honor puts us right 
 smack in the middle of the start of the war for the US- Pearl Harbor. Once again, we get a vivid 
 reminder how badly we got our tails whiped there, but this time, you can do something about. No, 
 you cant defeat the Japs, here, but you can sure try! The first thing you notice in MOH is the 
 graphics. Its some of the best that Ive seen in any game, is the best in the series, but it comes 
 with a BIG price to pay, and that is system resources. Man, this game is about as system resource 
 hungry as was Far Cry 1.0, and that is a bad thing! Ive a 3.2 GHz PC, with 2GB of DDR RAM and 
 NVIDIA 5950 video card, and I was only able to run things on medium to get things even close to 
 smooth. The game is so laggy that I felt as if I was in slow motion half the time. Personally I 
 think that is way too much to ask for in todays games. I think, as they did in Far Cry, EA will 
 have to find a way to get better performance out of this one, or they will have a lot of unhappy 
 soldiers out there.
  A long with great graphics, you have some great audio, also best in the series. The game play continue 
 to be awesome, with you battling though historical mission, one after another., but the problem 
 is, and maybe cause it is following history, the missions tend to be very linear and some to sway 
 very little from the main mission. You cant really roam around and hit targets of opportunity 
 so you pretty much need to stay on target, and remember the goals in the mission.
  EA have change a few things in the game, there are a lot more in the way of physical damage and 
 getting knocked dizzy if a shell get too close to you. Like the other reviewers have said on here, 
 to get health, is really a pain in the ass, you have to wait, and hope that youre not shot before 
 the medic can get to you. Realistic, yes, boring also and personally slows the pace down needlessly. 
 
  For MOH fans, this is a must have, but its very similar to all the others in this series, but 
 if you like history, and I know you do, then this is a must have game!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tank_Buster
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 9, 2004 7:40 am PT
Review:  This game is terrific. Don't pass judgement from the demos because this game has changed greatly 
 since they were released, particularly the SP demo. The level that demo is based on is entirely 
 different. 
  
  The graphics are superb, if very taxing, although I haven't seen the blurred screen effects on 
 the machine guns that everyone raves about. Oh well, not important.
  
  The weapons are very realistic and well modelled and completely fair. I hear a lot of complaints 
 about how bad the Resing M55 is, but that gun actually WAS terrible. In general it is cool. The 
 bolt action animations are realistically timed, a first for WW2 games considering all past MoHs 
 and CoD games had the bolts move smooth as butter. Not in this. Also, the shotgun is useful but 
 not insanely overpowered like in MoHAA. 
  
  The sound is incredible, particularly the music. It was so good to me that I gave a burned CD to 
 a music professor at UF and asked him to guess where the music was from. When I told him it was 
 from a computer game he was flabberghasted. It is extremely powerful music that is timed so perfectly 
 during gameplay that it makes the gameplay doubly more enjoyable.
  
  The AI is superior to most other games, although I am tired of my corpsman running in circles around 
 me saying he can't find me. Otherwise, very good AI. 
  
  EXAMPLE OF TERRIFIC GAMEPLAY IN PROGRESS: 
  My squad, after being hounded and on the run, finally 
 found the crashed pilot we were searching for. I told my squad to lay down cover fire, which they 
 did well. I ran to the pilot while firing my crappy Reising at the enemy until I was empty, at 
 which point I picked him up. I struggled to carry him to the shelter of my team's perimeter in 
 a rocky cove when I heard a shrill yell behind me. I turned around to see a sword weilding captain 
 charging at me headlong. I gunned him down with my .45 revolver because EA was nice enough to allow 
 you to shoot from the hip with a pistol when carrying a body (VERY nice touch) . I left him with 
 the medic and grabbed the semiauto shotgun from the crashsite and began gunning down attackers 
 until it ran empty, at which point I shot my revolver until THAT was empty and was forced to club 
 the enemy with my pistol until we were able to evacuate under fire. During all of this is some 
 of the best action music EVER! SOOO AWESOME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamer_nathan19
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 9, 2004 3:54 am PT
Review:  Medal of Honour: Allied Assault is one of the great single-plaer, WWII first-person shooters of 
 all-time. It's campaigns were really slick, and sucked the gamer into the gameplay. Unfortunately, 
 i must say differently of MoH: Pacific Assualt. The game can provide some intense shooting, and 
 cinematic moments (such as the Pearl Harbour mission) , but as Greg stated in his video review, 
 some of the missions felt repetitive and un-needed. The type of levels that you wish just weren't 
 there so you could get on to the rest of the game.
  Like many of the recent slew of WWII FPSs, the total gaming experience is very short (Under 10 hours 
 myself.) , which can leave a bad taste in your mouth after spending $30 + for the game. Also, the 
 game is a beast to run. I know my system isnt much, but I thought i could do better than medium 
 settings @ 800X600. (the main dissappointing fact is that there isnt a WHOLE lot to show for the 
 slow rate of FPS)
  BUT, the differences aside, MoH: PA delivers a solid (if not short) 10 hours of gameplay, and has 
 a new MP feature that many will enjoy. I did experience some lag playing over the LAN with my bro, 
 but i guess that could be due to a lot of things, not so much the engine.
  All in all, this is a game the die-hard WWII fan must buy, but if you are kinda in-and-outta the 
 WWII biz, then wait for this game to drop to $25 at EB Games. Cheers :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sonny673
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 6, 2004 11:51 pm PT
Review:  This game has got the feel of a Medal of Honor game, and for that, I applaude EA. The sound is 
 top notch, from the men screaming out for help, to the explosions from Pearl Harbor, it's all there. 
 
  The core gameplay is very intense, and puts you right in the moment. 
  My only complaint is the gigantic system reqs. With a 3.0 ghz, 2048 mb of ram, and a geforce 5950 
 ultra, I need to run the game on 1024 resolution, with everything on medium to run it. It's a bit 
 too much.
  The online portion is actually pretty fun, and this coming from a hardcore CoD player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masaville
Rating: 9.9
Date: Nov 6, 2004 7:32 am PT
Review:  Medal of Honor Pacific Assault is a fantastic game. I've been playing for about three hours so 
 far and am thoroughly impressed. This title definitely rivals Call of Duty and as a die hard COD 
 fan, I honestly believe MOHPA just might be better.
  
  FIrst off, the attention to detail is superb. When you get right down to it, it's obvious the developers 
 have gone out of their way to add all of the little things that make a FPS top notch. When you're 
 knee deep in it you truly feel immersed. Bullets zinging by your head, richocheting off of nearby 
 targets, and explosions that will throttle you. I can't say I felt this immersed in COD. Close, 
 but not to this level.
  
  The sound effects are right on the money. The sound alone takes the level of realism to another 
 level. The weaponary fire is truly authentic, regardless of what weapon you choose. From 30mm mounted 
 machine guns to rifles, I can honestly say this is the best audio I've heard in a long time. Communication 
 between you and your unit is very authentic as well. As you snipe a target you might hear your 
 one of your unit call out 'Great shot'. The developers have done wonders with the speech and kept 
 it from being repetitive. In fact, it's extremely dynamic.
  
  Graphics? Again, the developers have obviously put a lot of effort into the environments and all 
 objects within them. 3D modeling is perfect and animations are very solid. The environments are 
 extremely detailed. They've also added some very interesting features, such as a realistic recoil/vibration 
 during weapon fire, that really makes you feel like you're firing that weapon IRL. As for performance, 
 it's a bit taxing on your system, and I was reduced to running 1280x1024 (4x/8x) even with a 3.0 
 Intel, 2GB RAM, GeForce 6800 GT OC. However, even in 1280x1024 it was polished and in many ways, 
 much more polished than COD, especially with respect to vehicles, surroundings, and NPCs. 
  
  The AI is very well done. No bumping into squad mates or other NPCs. Everything moves seamlessly 
 and I have yet to experience one instance of questionable AI. They put a lot of work into the AI 
 and it clearly shows.
  
  This title is worth every penny and as a hard critict, I feel GS underated it. However, to each 
 his own. If you loved COD, you will certainly enjoy MOHPA, and quite possibly more than COD as 
 I have. In short, MOHPA is a winner and a very authentic one at that!
  
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
