-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Medieval Conquest
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/medievalconquest/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 18, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.9
Critic Score: 6.6, 6 Review (s)
User Score: 7.4, 105 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Global Star Software
Developer: Cat Daddy Games
Genre: Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Sep 6, 2004
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Medieval Conquest is a charming, lighthearted blend of real-time strategy and fantasy-themed, tycoon-style 
 building. 

  It's no exaggeration to say that the real-time strategy genre and, in particular, the fantasy-themed 
 real-time strategy genre are both full of clichs. For example, in most real-time strategy 
 games, you have to defeat an ultimate evil from taking over the world by battling hordes of nightmarish 
 monsters while overcoming desperate odds. To its credit, Medieval Conquest is not one of these 
 games, and instead delivers a refreshing blend of economic strategy and amusing gags at the fantasy 
 genre's expense.  

          Imagine a tycoon-building game with fantasy elements, and you've got Medieval Conquest. 
     

  The first thing to note about Medieval Conquest is that it's not a traditional real-time strategy 
 game. Rather than gathering lots of resources and churning out huge armies, you instead must build 
 and manage a fantasy economy that will support the heroic adventurers who are battling evil. In 
 other words, Medieval Conquest is a bit like a tycoon strategy game -- but with fantasy elements. 
 In fact, it's very much like Cyberlore Studios' cult favorite, Majesty: The Fantasy Kingdom Sim, 
 though developer Cat Daddy Games takes the innovative concept of that game and expands on it further. 

  In Medieval Conquest, you're hired by the king of a besieged fantasy kingdom to clear out all the 
 monsters and evil creatures that are roaming his land. To do so, you must hire three different 
 classes of adventurers -- fighters, rangers, and mages -- and then group them into adventuring bands. 
 These adventurers operate autonomously, so all you need to do is direct them where to hunt, and 
 they'll automatically go off to slay any monsters they encounter. In the meantime, you must provide 
 the buildings and services that these adventurers require. You receive a bounty from the king for 
 each monster your adventurers kill, and you reinvest the money earned by building armories where 
 your adventurers can buy better weapons and equipment, establishing inns and taverns where they 
 can rest and eat, providing carnivals and other amusements to keep them happy, constructing training 
 centers where they can learn new skills, and assembling other such buildings. Failure to provide 
 these goods and services will discourage your adventurers, so they may desert you for the next 
 monster-infested kingdom.  

  There's a strong role-playing element in the game, even though you don't actually control any of 
 your characters directly. You'll find yourself nurturing your adventurers along as they rise in 
 rank, so there's a certain amount of satisfaction in seeing your adventurers pack the latest gear 
 that you've stocked in your shops.  

          A band of adventurers battles magic mushrooms. Yes, that's right: magic mushrooms.     
 

  You'll always have plenty of stuff to construct, even after you've built a huge town with all the 
 shops and services that your adventurers need. That's because each level of Medieval Conquest is 
 huge enough to offer multiple objectives. Your adventurers will spend a lot of time walking around 
 the world, but, luckily, you can construct outposts that serve as fortified oases in the wilderness. 
 More importantly, each outpost comes with a road that you can use to connect distant corners of 
 the kingdom. Adventurers not only move twice as fast on roads, but also they can purchase mules 
 and horses (at stables that you build) to get around much faster. And, finally, you can put up 
 buildings next to outposts. This lets you put up tiny hamlets and villages all over the map, further 
 cutting down on your adventurers' travel times, because they won't have to travel all the way back 
 to the main town to relieve their boredom or to get something to eat.  

  What makes Medieval Conquest shine is how it wraps all its gameplay elements up in a lighthearted 
 rendering of fantasy life. Like the  Shrek  movies, Medieval Conquest packs a lot of sly humor 
 and puns, from its blacksmith shop, with its tiny "Smith and Weapons" sign, to its comical monsters. 
 While you'll run into some conventional fantasy foes, such as a dragonlike creature that will occasionally 
 burn down a building, you'll also battle what look to be giant purple ladybugs, killer rabbits, 
 and a "mad" troll -- everyone says the creature's mad because of his behavior, since he frolics in 
 a wooded thicket like a 4-year-old girl. Meanwhile, the game's audio will also make you smile, 
 particularly with the one-liners that your adventurers spout. It's fun to hear a fighter proudly 
 proclaim, "I have defeated thee," after slaying a feeble opponent. Likewise, it's fun to hear the 
 whimsical death gurgles of some of the stranger creatures in the game.  

  The art direction is rather unconventional, but it works well within the overall context of the 
 game's humor. Your adventurers look like animated bobblehead dolls, with heads that are far out 
 of proportion from their bodies (as if to emphasize their cartoonlike natures) . The rest of the 
 world is brightly colored and lit, and it features a lot of little details, like flies that buzz 
 around some of the less savory eating establishments. You can use the camera to zoom down to appreciate 
 all this detail, or you can zoom out for a more traditional, bird's-eye view of the action.  

 
          Your enemies all have unique death gurgles that are strangely fun to listen to.     

 
  Medieval Conquest is beset with a few problems, despite its pleasant overall appearance. The game's 
 got a relatively steep learning curve that's not helped by the meager tutorial that consists of 
 pop-up screens. Meanwhile, some of the pathfinding and artificial intelligence decisions are, at 
 times, a bit dubious -- it can be frustrating to watch your adventurers run off to engage a distant 
 threat while ignoring a nearby monster who's busy tearing apart one of your buildings. Finally, 
 the developer made the mistake of giving you everything up front in the first level, so there's 
 little to unlock or to discover in further missions. This leads to a sense that you've seen most 
 everything in the game early on, which leads to a slight feeling that you're repeating the same 
 process over and over again.  

  Still, those flaws don't detract that much from the fun of Medieval Conquest. Cat Daddy Games could 
 have played it straight by making a serious game about good battling evil, but, instead, it hit 
 just the right tone of humor and action. As a result, Medieval Conquest is a lighthearted, charming 
 blend of real-time strategy, tycoon-building, and role-playing elements that form a game that knows 
 not to take itself too seriously.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Celine_Aensland
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 7, 2006 8:45 pm PT
Review:  This is a very fun but unfortunately short (only 4 maps!) RTS that you should get if you see it 
 in a bargain bin somewhere.
  
  Like the official reviews say, this is more of a sim than an RTS, because you buy buildings, hire 
 heroes, and watch them go at it. The one flaw of this game is the speed - they just walk too damn 
 slow. The map is among the largest I've seen in most RTS games, and it can take your heroes minutes 
 literally just to cross it. A little tweaking of the .ini configuration files is certainly in order, 
 and once you change the default walk and run values from the ridiculously low figure of 2 (2 paces 
 a second?) to something more enjoyable like 6, this game just shines.
  
  True, you get practically the entire "tech-tree" upfront once your heroes slay enough creatures 
 to earn you enough money to buy the requisite buildings, although most of the time money is rather 
 short in supply. Heroes are generally expendable, they don't really cost you anything other than 
 the initial hiring fee and the subsequent time invested in them. Monsters continually respawn at 
 certain points of each map, so you can rotate your heroes among each spot to keep the flow of cash 
 coming.
  
  The game is just way too slow out of the box, and your heroes are fragile little things that need 
 a lot of babying at first. For a light-hearted game, it is suprisingly quite tough on newcomers. 
 There is a "speed up" option, i. e. gamespeed tweak, for 1x, 3x, and 6x, but although that seems 
 to speed up the heroes' movements, it also speeds up time, and they will appear to become annoyed 
 faster - you will need to be very quick to appease their demands for better equipment in shops 
 etc. hence my recommendation to edit up their speeds.
  
  The engine is unfortunately slightly jerky for a game of this age, and there are only 4 maps, which 
 really hurts, even though they're quite large and are divided into sub-tasks as you progress around 
 each map.
  
  If you can get this cheap, it's worth every penny. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: barnatj
Rating: 4.7
Date: Oct 25, 2004 12:03 am PT
Review:  This game just made me want to beat the screen. You are set with the task of building a town, and 
 hiring adventurers to fight for you. They come in classes of fighter, ranger, and mage.
  
  So you hire a few adventurers and send them off to fight for you, if you can find them. I hired 
 adventures, and could not find them! I was expecting them to come out of the building that I had 
 just built as instructed by the tutorial, but they actually appear out of the woods way off the 
 screen south of the town. So after I finally located my adventurers, I sent them off into battle.
 
  
  That's when the problems started. Every time I killed a monster it seemed my adventurers gained 
 a level. Each time they gain a level they have more wants. So reaching the first level my fighters 
 demanded better armor, as did my ranger and mage. Instead of having one armor building, you must 
 build separate buildings for fighter armor, ranger armor, and mage armor (which I doubt you will 
 have money for) . So your adventurers walk all the way back from the battlefield (slow as molasses) , 
 to get their new armor. Then they walk all the way back where you told them to fight.
  
  Next thing that they kill they gain another level, and they demand better weapons. So you then 
 again have to build separate buildings for fighter weapons, ranger weapons, and mage weapons (which 
 again you won't be able to afford) . And again your adventurers will have to walk all the way back 
 to town for these new supplies.
  
  Keep in mind if you don't fill these demands your adventurers will dessert you, which was happening 
 right and left to me. It is almost impossible to have enough money to keep up with the demands 
 that your adventurers are making. It is a vicious cycle between trying to get enough money by fighting 
 monsters to fill your adventurers needs, but then they gain levels and just demand more stuff.
 
  
  So between my adventurers constant demands that I couldn't meet, and then their need to spend 80% 
 of the game walking back to town to get things, this game was infuriating at best. Please play 
 the demo before buying this game, and make sure you can deal with this tiresome gameplay.
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
