-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Medieval: Total War
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/medievaltotalwar/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 27, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.7
Critic Score: 8.8, 41 Review (s)
User Score: 8.8, 2,450 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision
Developer: Creative Assembly
Genre: Historic Real-Time...
Date:     Aug 19, 2002 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Medieval: Total War achieves that rare quality of having something for nearly all strategy gamers, 
 and most will find a lot to like in it, for a very long time. 

 Medieval: Total War, like its predecessor, Shogun, is both a turn-based strategy game and a real-time 
 tactical combat game featuring massive armies containing hundreds or even thousands of troops. 
 Released in 2000, Shogun might not have pioneered this style of gaming, but it was definitely one 
 of the best strategy games to come around in a while. Now, two years later, developer Creative 
 Assembly has returned with a follow-up set in the Middle Ages of Europe. It's another outstanding 
 strategy game that's highly complex but richly rewarding.           Better castle sieges, with 
 real siege engines, are new to Medieval.    

  Like feudal Japan, Europe in the Middle Ages was rife with political intrigue and open warfare. 
 However, because of the more diverse range of peoples and histories, Europe and the surrounding 
 areas of the Middle East and Mediterranean were prone to even more vehement hostility. Add to this 
 fire the historic influence of the Church and the major role of religion in the development of 
 the Middle Ages and you have a powder keg of possibilities that is more exciting even than the 
 Senroku Jidai period depicted in Shogun. In Medieval, there is a lot more going on, and the game 
 reflects that, providing a richer experience than the first Total War game.   

  Those unfamiliar with the Total War series will find a rewarding and very complex experience awaiting 
 them in Medieval. Those who played Shogun would undoubtedly expect no less. Either way, you'll 
 definitely need to play the tutorial before getting started in earnest, as the game at first seems 
 overwhelming. There is a turn-based strategic portion to the game that plays like Risk, where you 
 manage your empire and resources while marshaling your armies for eventual battle with your neighbors. 
 In this mode, you see Europe as a 2D map and move various game pieces representing your emissaries, 
 spies, and armies across brightly colored provinces and empires. And while you build units and 
 construct buildings, you'll need to carefully watch your province's loyalty, maintain relations 
 with neighboring empires, and nurture your economy. You'll also expand your empire by moving units 
 to adjacent territories, increasing your holdings but also increasing the amount of necessary empire 
 management. Any time your army pieces meet an enemy army piece in a contested province, the game 
 switches to its real-time tactical mode. Here, the battle is played out in full 3D, as you control 
 the actual armies on the battlefield. Medieval features literally a hundred different types of 
 units, encompassing such things as artillery, including mangonels and cannons; foot archers; horse 
 archers; infantry, such as halberdiers and spearmen; cavalry; conscripted peasants; gunpowder units; 
 and much more.   

  In Shogun, the two halves of turn-based and real-time gameplay were playable and enjoyable, but 
 the tactical portion was definitely the highlight -- the strategic portion of the game was much less 
 refined and developed. In Medieval, the designers have paid a lot more attention to delivering 
 a more complete experience, and you won't feel like the quality in one portion was sacrificed for 
 the other.   

  The strategic portion now has a lot more options, mainly because there are now 12 different factions 
 to play, each with a few unique units and different strengths and weaknesses. In addition, there 
 are now more buildings to construct and a lot more units overall, increasing the number of strategic 
 possibilities for developing your provinces and armies. The game's setting lends itself to a lot 
 more political intrigue than Shogun, and in addition to forging alliances through diplomacy, you 
 can also marry off your daughters to create lasting ties with rival rulers. During the actual 400-year 
 period covered in Medieval, religion played an enormous role in shaping history, and so it is in 
 the game. Many of the different factions are aligned by religion -- such as Catholicism and Islam -- as 
 are many of the provinces you can control. Matching your faction's religion with the religion of 
 conquered provinces is a tricky business in Medieval, as Muslim provinces are more apt to rebel 
 against Christian rulers, and vice versa. You'll have to monitor the zeal rating of your provinces, 
 which measures how religious the province is and thus how much you'll need to appease the local 
 populace with tax breaks or by appointing a general with the same religion to rule the region in 
 your name.   

  Since the game is played in the Middle Ages, where lords often gave titles to their loyal generals, 
 you can likewise gift land and titles to your loyal servants, who will then in turn govern the 
 province in your name. You can actually use this system to your advantage, for example by making 
 a pious Muslim general the leader of a Muslim province to increase its loyalty or by turning over 
 control of a mineral-rich province to a shrewd general to increase revenues. Of course, if you 
 do this, you have to give careful consideration to your general's loyalty (you don't want him to 
 take the province away from you) , his piety, his dread (which indicates whether he can cow the 
 populace into submission) , and his acumen (which determines how good of a money manager he is: 
 The better he is, the more revenue he will generate for you) .           The strategy portion is 
 much improved over Shogun.    

  You can begin the game without understanding all its nuances and complexity, but if you do, the 
 computer or a smarter human opponent will tear you apart. There are so many subtle factors that 
 govern how things work in Medieval that to ignore them is to invite disaster. In battle, for example, 
 you can just march your army toward the enemy because you'll get there faster and engage quicker, 
 but you might not realize that if you do so too early, your soldiers will be fatigued faster. In 
 the strategy portion, you might just start gifting land to your generals right and left because 
 you know doing so will make them happy. But if you don't realize how a low dread rating can lead 
 to more open revolts, you could lose those territories you cede to incompetent generals.   

  One problem with the enhanced strategy portion of the game is the lack of information. Once your 
 empire gets truly gigantic, you'll have a tough time keeping track of all the goings-on in your 
 provinces. The current information lists are much too minimal. A more informative interface and 
 easy access to listed information that could be sorted by different attributes (such as organizing 
 generals by highest dread, piety, or acumen ratings or showing the unit and building queues for 
 all provinces) would have made the game much easier to handle. Currently, the massive amounts of 
 information to digest will strain the brains of even the most hard-core wargamers. Still, the strategy 
 portion of the game is very rewarding to play, even if it's a bit too complex for some, and many 
 fans of Risk and Civilization will simply want to play this mode alone.    

 As was the case in Shogun, though, the sexy draw of this game is still the epic real-time battles. 
 In this regard, Medieval is at first glance surprisingly similar to the previous game. Small, pixelated 
 2D units can be seen rummaging around simple rolling 3D terrain. There's a good view distance and 
 some weather effects, but not many frills. You might expect more from the game visually, considering 
 it spent two years in development and especially considering how the genre has seen its share of 
 visually stunning games lately, such as Battle Realms and Warcraft III. After all this time, the 
 engine should have been completely rewritten to take advantage of current technology, or even the 
 video cards of last year. Instead, Creative Assembly opted to use the same engine, albeit with 
 a few enhancements, and the overall visual effect is underwhelming as a result. Yet, as you play 
 the game, you'll find the same gratifying experience of massive hordes of fighters and realistic 
 warfare. In this regard, Medieval still delivers.           The graphics aren't Medieval's strongest 
 suit.    

  While many recent real-time strategy games focus on smaller-scale battles between powerful units, 
 Medieval goes in the opposite direction and promotes huge battles and gritty realism. In Medieval, 
 you can command thousands of men. In fact, you can have up to 10,000 soldiers duking it out at 
 a time. It's actually amazing to see that many troops onscreen at once, but this feat also accounts 
 for the intermittent sluggish performance. When you do have 10,000 soldiers running around at once, 
 the game starts to crawl, even on a high-end machine with plenty of RAM. If your system is slower, 
 you'll need to turn off all sorts of visual features to get the game to run smoothly.   

  Medieval is a very realistic game that models real-world battlefield considerations like fatigue, 
 ammunition, facing, and morale, elements that are usually omitted in other strategy games. It's 
 a welcome change for those gamers who yearn for something more substantial. In Medieval, it pays 
 to apply logic and forethought to your battle plans. Those who manage these subtle aspects of warfare 
 with skill and intelligence will win many times more than those who don't. This also means gamers 
 used to Command &amp; Conquer and Warcraft will have to work their brains a little harder and put 
 up with less instant gratification. That's because things don't happen instantaneously in Medieval. 
 Most of the strategizing and thinking -- most of the action -- is done before any fighting actually 
 takes place. In fact, most of your mental effort is spent on determining what sorts of troops to 
 bring to battle in the first place, where to position your troops in regard to each other, scouting 
 out the area to determine how best to use high ground and terrain to your advantage, and then maneuvering 
 your men to battle without pushing them too hard or wearing down their morale.   

  Often, once battle is joined, it's much harder to maneuver and regroup than in other games. If 
 your planning and setup aren't good enough to win the battle at first engagement, it takes supreme 
 leadership and tactics to regain your advantage. Moving away from enemy units to reposition yourself 
 often leaves your flanks exposed, which in Medieval's realistic warfare results in disaster. Thus, 
 if you want to secure advantageous terrain and positioning, you often want to do it before you 
 engage the enemy. You don't micromanage your units in Medieval as much as you do in other games, 
 and even when you do, orders aren't carried out right away when you issue them. This will undoubtedly 
 frustrate gamers used to immediate response from units in other games.   

  The most annoying aspect of the battles, though, is that they get very confusing very quickly, 
 as armies in combat tend to devolve into messy blobs of mismatched color. The problem is compounded 
 because the battles get so big that you need to zoom out to get a good view of all your forces. 
 But when you do that, it becomes very hard to see the different unit groups. While you can click 
 on a unit group's tab at the bottom of the screen to select it, if you have multiple unit groups 
 of the same type, you won't know which one you clicked on. That's because although the unit group's 
 banner will bounce up and down if selected, you'll be so far away that this effect will be almost 
 unnoticeable. The inability to clearly discern units at far distances is definitely a problem, 
 especially when battles get really big and with lots of different units. You will eventually have 
 to use the camera a lot, and while it is fairly intuitive, it adds another level of complexity 
 that could turn into a headache for some gamers.           The intense real-time battles can get 
 really messy.    

  Get used to it, and you'll find that Medieval offers great lasting value. The campaign game is 
 open-ended, so you can play through in any number of ways and with infinite outcomes, especially 
 considering the dozen playable factions and the challenging artificial intelligence. The historical 
 campaigns, where you can replay events like the Hundred Years' War or King Richard Lionheart's 
 Crusade, as well as the inclusion of a map editor, also add still more to the replay value.   

 
  Ultimately, Medieval is a very enjoyable game, but it isn't well suited for the casual gamer. 
 The real-time tactical gameplay is light on spectacular unit abilities and heavy on realism, which 
 might be too detail-oriented for some. Those who did not like Shogun's real-time battles won't 
 like Medieval, although those wishing for more meat in the strategic portion will be pleased with 
 this game's enhanced strategy element. Medieval has a lot of deep gameplay, but what's great is 
 that you control how much of the complexity you digest. If you just want the strategic gameplay, 
 you can always opt to let the computer automatically resolve battles so you don't have to control 
 the real-time combat. If you just want to command armies and play out  Braveheart -scale skirmishes, 
 you can just jump into quick battles or play the campaign mode but have the computer manage many 
 of the details. If you don't want to learn or master all the game's intricacies, you don't have 
 to. The game will still be rewarding, although you might start wondering why you keep losing fights 
 and provinces. Best of all, if you do want to master the game, there is a lot to learn, and as 
 you play the game over and over again, you will find new ways to better manage your empire and 
 better command your armies. Medieval: Total War achieves that rare quality of having something 
 for nearly all strategy gamers, and most will find a lot to like in it, for a very long time.  
   
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (48 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: RedneckGamer87
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 8, 2008 5:32 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Well Medieval: total war is the second installment of the total war series. So as expected, 
 it's a mix of turn based, city managment and Real Time army battles which to control thousands 
 of troops at one time of the battlefield. Like feudal Japan, Europe in the Middle Ages was rife 
 with political intrigue and open warfare. However, because of the more diverse range of peoples 
 and histories, Europe and the surrounding areas of the Middle East and Mediterranean were prone 
 to even more vehement hostility. Well unlike Shogun, you get castles and such and of course there 
 is the church to worry about. Also I liked the whole displomacy part of the game which you can 
 forge alliences with other nations. So during the battles elements like terrain, weather, morale, 
 formations and troop types being vital factors as always. Again you are able to command thousands 
 of troops on the battlefield at one time, Morale, and the characteristics of your generals can 
 really influence the tide of battle. Indeed keeping a reserve of fresh troops can be vital to maintaining 
 morale for the rest of your forces. 
  I particualry enjoyed this because I like mass battles and piles of bodys that build up. So in 
 this you get to pick many diffrent nations like England, France and Spain. Each having there own 
 unique units, strengths and abilities. You get to try to dominate all of Europe, part of the middle 
 east and north africa.
  
  Graphics: The graphics have been imrpoved from the shogun series. The map looks better and so does 
 the battlefield. The uniits accuallly look better aswell and smoother.
  
  Sound: The sound is really quite good in this game, voice acting is well done and the soundtrack 
 is full of rousing context-sensitive orchestra moments which get you in the mood for bloody slaughter, 
 which is a good thing as this game delivers body counts like no other.
  
  Value: All in all this is a very good game with high replay value. You can play many diffrent nations 
 which makes it quite entertaining. I would highly recomend this game to any RTS fan. I give this 
 game 9.0 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anofalye
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 2:11 pm PT
Review:  No matter how I try to look at it. I come back play this game.
  
  I buy Rome and Total War 2, to no avail... I start FAAKING until I go back to this gorgeous game.
 
  
  The years have passed by, and the game remain on my desktop, as solid as ever, looking at the whole 
 next decade with an ironic smile on it icon! Challenging all devs, the total war devs included, 
 to do better. And they just can't.
  
  Here are a few key features of what make Total War so good.
  
  1- It is simple. You build 1 
 improvement and 1 unit per province... some take many turns/years.
  
  2- Provinces border are CLEAR and easy to asset. You don't have to be carefully looking 10 minutes 
 in case you miss an enemy unit. It is not a "seek and hide" game with Charlie, it is a wargame.
 
  
  3- The developpment tree is interesting, both in building and units.
  
  4- AI can play any aspect of the game you dislike, fairing about as well as the computer around 
 you, so you focus only on game aspects which you like. You are a ruler, you can dismiss any aspect 
 you dislike and it won't be abandonned, but it will be taken care of by your staff.
  
  That doesn't mean the game isn't with some flaws... Micromanagement is kinda bad, but not as bad 
 as in Rome or Total War 2... maybe they should explore province merging or province reaching another 
 unmanageable status at some point, I don't know... but there is something there to be done. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beesu
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 18, 2007 6:12 pm PT
Review:  Hello there everyone. I just finished watching the video review for Medieval: total war. And I 
 can't believe what they are saying about this game. The fighting is not as bad as they say it is. 
 The campaign... i'll get into later.
  
  Battle's- I know that everyone like the battles in all total war games but then they go say that 
 the graphics wheren't very good. Like the other reviews how is it that you are comparing this game 
 to Medieval: total war 2. this game is like 7-8 years older then that. Sure the graphics might 
 not be as clean as Medieval: total war 2 but then again if you dont like it then why are you playing 
 it. Got get MTW 2 (Medieval: total war 2) . I don't enjoy the fighting on this game as much as the 
 campaign but the overall battles where good when a friend came over and they said they where a 
 better general then you. I remember playing the 100 year war 5-6 times so that i could prove that 
 I was the best (of course i was :D) . And the grpahics for a game that old are amazing. I could 
 see my 3000 men army marching towards the city i was attacking. There was no big blobs on my screen 
 i could see everyman on the battle field.
  
  Campaign- Why everyone hates the campaign i don't know. This is what i think really makes the Total 
 War series what they are. I had this game for about 1 year. and after playing 1 easy campaign that 
 took a week i started a hard campaign. In the year i played it i had only wiped out 2 countries 
 (french and spanish) . and was know working on the british and the germans. I was a muslim religion 
 and had to stop lots of crusades against me. I was not even the military power in this game it 
 was the German's. They gave a wonderful fight before i was able to defeat them. The campaign is 
 all in all a very important part of the game. without it all you do is go around and battle and 
 battle and battle. This gets very boring after a while.
  
  Sound- The sound of this game is terrific. The music changes as you tell armies to do different 
 things on the battle field. When you march you hear the feet stomping and when you attack buldings 
 you hear your general tell them what to do.
  
  Down sides- The only downside i had with this game was the boat travel on the campaign map. i spent 
 a year trying to get ships and to move people on water with my ships. This is the only down side 
 of Medieval: total war 
::::::

::::::
UserName: templargunman
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 26, 2007 8:20 pm PT
Review:  When I got excited for Medieval II I got the first game to give me something to quench my thirst 
 for this game. I ended up being extremely excited to get such a great game that I would have never 
 played otherwise. I played many different peoples, with different luck, extremely enjoyed with 
 my choice, and when I played as Spain, I managed to conquer the whole world. One of my favorite 
 parts of the original game that II didn't have was all the small cultures, Aragon, Switzerland 
 and many others, that in II became Spanish rebels and Swiss rebels. Medieval had many things that 
 II took out that didn't ruin the game, but gave me a mildly negative opinion towards Total War, 
 ignoring smaller kingdoms like that. Also, the battle graphics suck, it's an old game, but they 
 suck, so I only do campaign, unless I have a maxed out general with 50 men holding off against 
 my 500 man army. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WKK
Rating: 9.9
Date: Aug 7, 2007 7:53 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing. I really don't know what to say for this review but i am shocked of how this 
 game can deliver quality gameplay, and great RTS options to PC gamers.
  
  This game definately gives you the total freedom on how to rule your nation and dominating Europe. 
 There are different factions and three different periods you can play in this game, there are different 
 religions which give your provinces much easy and identity.
  
  There are so many things you can do in this game that are countless like assassinating an enemy 
 general, or spying on your enemy and marrying beautiful princesses from different nations. It's 
 just plain amazing and it's a masterpiece of all time.
  
  Buy this game first and play it, it will boost your taste for Medieval Total War and when your 
 taste is boosted, reward yourself by buying Medieval II Total War, i gurantee, this game won't 
 bore you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bob9999999999
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 6, 2007 7:36 pm PT
Review:  I love Medieval Total War. It is a fun game with a lot of strategy. One thing i do not love is 
 the time limit placed on the game. If, like in Rome Total War, there was no time limit i would 
 have done a lot better. I would also have enjoyed the game more. It was also very similar to Shogun 
 Total War. However, despite these shortcomings Medieval did a very nice job of creating an immersive 
 game with a lot of depth. The various civilizations are an immense improvement and the game has 
 a lot of replayability and depth. I measure depth as a game that is still fun to play years later 
 (when games with better graphics/AI show up) and that can be played through without using up all 
 of the content. Medieval does a great job of this and as such is a fun game by most standards. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leakybubbles
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 22, 2007 11:16 am PT
Review:  Gameplay, A great game, great game... I love this game and I always have. It's a great addictive 
 strategy game that envolves you being smart making the right alliances and the right decisions 
 and eventualy conquer all of Europe! Oh and really original creative way of fighting and using 
 strategy. Like pikemen kill horses and do better in certain stances and your mean get tired from 
 running and they need to be trained and they are better then their king and lots and lots of cool 
 ways to assassinate, get married, buy men, betrayals everything.
  
  Graphics, bad bad just bad. but funny to watch the little guys in 2d move around.
  
  Sound, 
 hey its not bad just normal war music.
  
  Value, good variety of buildings and armies to create and its all about strategy. One mistake in 
 one year and it mite be your end. It's fun its engaging it's great and you hate to try it for yourself. 
 But ever sense Medieval Total War II came out this game was pushed to the dust but I still play 
 it and its worth it.
  
  Tilt
  
  The Good, Strategy game and does great with it. A game you can play for hours.
  
  The Bad, 
 Graphics... sometimes when you play you just want to skip battles because of the graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: devilreyes
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 21, 2007 2:40 am PT
Review:  Medieval: Total War is a mixed bag. It's an ambitious war game with two distinct elements. First, 
 there's the Campaign Map which is essentially a board game in with which you perform all of the 
 necessary tasks of building and maintaining an empire, or in some cases, a fiefdom. Since it is 
 turn based you can plot out your moves at your own pace... and your own pace will start getting 
 mighty slow as your empire grows and you have to click on just about everything you have on the 
 board just to churn out units, decide how your people will worship, and maintain trade and diplomacy 
 with every other inbred autocrat in Medieval Europe and abroad (North Africa, the Arabian Peninsula 
 and Asia Minor) . Even though the Campaign can get bogged down late in the game it is still a satisfying 
 turn based strategy game in it's own right.
  
  The second part of the game is the battle mode. Here you fight mostly pitched battles that require 
 a great deal of organization. Having a good grasp of how to use combined arms is essential to being 
 a successful field commander in Total War, yet the interface of Medieval makes getting your troops 
 just where you want them a pain. Even though it's a point and click system units seem to dawdle 
 getting into position turning or don't seem to be where you want them, leaving you to sort things 
 out on the fly while the AI goes exactly where it wants, when it wants. Ugh.
  
  The graphics are a mess. I can live with jaggy sprite-based units shuffling around a battlefield, 
 but there's no excuse for the campaign map looking the way it does. No matter what resolution you 
 use it's too hard to distinguish your armies from your emissaries from your princesses without 
 first dragging your cursor over them to find out whats what. Lousy visuals, clunky interface... 
 still, a sort of fun game - that about sums up Medieval: Total War. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Encell
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 15, 2007 5:22 am PT
Review:  A fine game. It's deep, involved and has a winning gameplay formula; turn based strategy Campaign 
 map where you manage settlements, raise taxes and build armies, and the Battlefield maps, where 
 real time tactics with your armies comes into play.
  
  The concept of managing settlements is relatively simple, doing it is another thing entirely. Diplomacy, 
 civil unrest and rebels all come into play at some point to threaten your empire, so its best to 
 keep focused and set yourself targets to help move along easier. In no time you should rule the 
 known world!
  
  Anywho, a quick sum up.
  
  The good: immersive, addictive, plays well, sounds great and gives an amazing sense of scale.
 
  
  Complaints? Well going back to it after Medieval 2 or Rome, it looks awful and the battlefield 
 map is very clunky. Of course you wouln't notice without experiencing otherwise so it shouldn't 
 bother anyone new to the series.
  
  I could explain things a bit better, but the game's just to big to do that and I'm lazy at the 
 moment. Accept that it's going to be a fun ride. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shuni
Rating: 4.4
Date: Feb 4, 2007 7:44 pm PT
Review:  How can a game be so accomplished and yet not actually fun?
  The armies are impressive. The fighting really works. Ans yet I have a feeling that its just going 
 thru the motions of battling to win, without once bringing a smile to my face.
  
  It has all the skill, and all the sense of humour ,of particulalry intense german poetry. I would 
 compare it with 'Lords of the Realm'. There was a game that had much less sophisticated graphics, 
 and yet the battles were enjoyable and it was fun to win and to progress. In 'Medieval' its just 
 a case of having the right strategy to pound out lots of the right sort of armies, make sure you're 
 getting the budget right, attack your neighbour- and rinse and repeat. There's never a feeling 
 that your armies have 'personality', however much you are told about their quirks, wives and children.
 
  
  Another problem is the lack of a clear tech tree to explain how to get whatever sort of unit you 
 are aiming for, such as whatever unit your province is supposedly renowned for.
  
  Stick to manuscripts of german poetry. In the original german. For a more fun time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonamy4ever
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 3, 2007 2:12 pm PT
Review:  Medieval: Total War, is a follow up to Shogun, which was released in 2000. The game puts you in 
 as one of a dozen factions, and it includes 3 different Eras of the Medieval Period. You will manage 
 your Empire on a large map, using turn based strategy. You can do preety much anything in one turn, 
 which can come in handy. But the arent called turns, instead they are known as years, so, when 
 you end a turn, you just gave orders for an entire year. From the campaign map, you will manage 
 taxes, deal with famines, rebels, war, and demands. You start the game off with so many units in 
 your armies, and a large group of provinces for your faction. You can train units, which are what 
 you wage the war with, and agents, who are characters that will do a large amount of things from 
 proposing alliances, to assasinating an enemy general. If you end a turn with soldiers a non-allied 
 country's province, you will find yourself fighting at the next turn, from here, you can eithier 
 fight it yourself, or let the computer do it in an instant. Unfortunately, making to computer do 
 it isint a good tactic, you can only seem to win if you outnumber the enemy army. BUT... if you 
 choose to do it yourself, you will be taken onto the battle map, and you will switch into a Real-Time 
 Strategy mode. All of the troops in your army will be displayed on screen, which can be incredible. 
 You will tell your units to go into different formations, and line groups. When the fight starts, 
 you will rush into battle, commanding your troops what to do, and how to not get themselves killed. 
 If you win.... yay, you win the province on the campaign map, if you lose, too bad, you suck, your 
 forced out of the province. The graphics are iffy, but it's a 2002 PC game, they didnt always have 
 the best graphics back then! The campaign map style is boring in my opinion, but the battle maps 
 are breathtaking with all the units on screen at once. All-in-all, Medieval: Total War is a must 
 have for any strategy fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Strongholdluva
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 22, 2006 6:16 pm PT
Review:  A Highly addictive game but not without it's faults. It would be cool if this were on the DS
  
  Graphics: Not Great. The Battle mode Graphics are terrible. The certain units look like the 
 ocean (The have Waves of bad graphics goin through them. Some Units look great. But the buildings 
 and the siege weapons are pretty good looking.
  
  Gameeplay: Makes up for the Graphics. You Can pick Between Tons of Factions And Just attack attack 
 attack. The Bad part you can't go through your allies provinces without waging war. Another thing 
 isif you and an ally go after a province you could kill every enemy with 100 troops but if your 
 ally has 101 troops the province goes to your ally. The bad DOES NOT take away that much from gameplay.
 
  
  Audio: Decent your informer in the battle takes great. And you can Hear Grunts and Screaming Etc. 
 From the Battling units. Also Horse hooves can be heard. I would write more but I'm running out 
 of room. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UUUMMM184
Rating: 8.6
Date: Sep 1, 2006 7:22 am PT
Review:  This sequel to Shogun: Total War duplicates the in-depth real-time strategy gameplay from its predecessor 
 and transplants it to the Middle Ages. On top of that, the game features new levels of depth, accessibility, 
 gameplay and strategy, replicating the blood-soaked battles from medieval times. Battles are staged 
 in the deserts of the Far East, the tallest mountains, plains and the forests of Europe. Massive 
 armies lay siege to mighty fortresses and pound them into dust with catapults and cannons as players 
 command medieval armies of knights, men-at-arms, archers and siege weapons in bloody quests to 
 become the masters of Europe.
  
  Gameplay: The interface can take some getting used to, but the real time combat is hugely entertaining.
 
  
  Graphics: Top visuals and a fairly unique style help this game stand out from the crowd.
  
 
  Sound: Your advisor calls the defeated enemy general a "son of a craven whore" when you win. The 
 context sensitive music is decent as well.
  
  Value: Huge replay value makes this game a winner, even if novices will find it hard to get into.
 
  
  Tilt: Medieval is a comprehensive game that has few flaws and delivers such an encompassing experience 
 you'd wonder why there haven't been many other titles imitating its predecessor. If you want real 
 time strategy with more teeth you cannot ignore this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spartan4Gondor
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 25, 2006 3:20 pm PT
Review:  Medieval total war transports you to the most brutal age of European History, the middle ages. 
 In this game you'll Manage your kingdom, Forge alliances and expand your power on the Global stage. 
 The Game's learning curve are diffucult, you feel a sense of acomplishment when you win, and want 
 to keep coming back when you lose. The Strategy elements in this game are superb, although sometimes 
 I think that tactical manuvering isnt that effective as it should be, most of the time the Factors 
 in the Game are how you form up your first line of men and when and where you send in your reserves. 
 Sometimes this turns into just a mess instead of an accute tactical duel, but that was what most 
 of the medieval battles were like. The Campaign mode is one of the best i have ever seen. It's 
 immersive and addictive. Victory in the campaign depends on three things, How well you manage your 
 economy and cities, your diplomacy with other nations, and your sucess in battle. The Three work 
 nicely together, for example. If I am playing a Cathloic Faction (Most of the european factions) 
 and i attack another cathloic faction i will more then likely be threatened by excommunication 
 by the pope, however If i launch a succesful crusade the pope will probbaly allow my expansions 
 back in europe, however to wage a crusade you must be allowed millitary acess by other nations, 
 and have the economy to support a Large army needed to take your Target. Religion is another nice 
 element, Cathloic factions can launch crusades and must deal with the politics of the pope. Muslim 
 factions can launch Jihads, and if your state religion conflicts with the main religion of the 
 populace, a religous revolt could very well follow.
  
  Espionage is also key in winning, spies can be used for reconnisance on your enemies current state, 
 and give you information on his army numbers and the types of troops in it. Assasins can also be 
 used to kill enemy commanders, diplomats and spies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Katosepe321
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 10, 2006 8:55 pm PT
Review:  Turn-based strategy games seem to be a dying breed. They have had the success of the popular Advance 
 Wars series but not much else. However, the total war series refuses to let the genre die. This 
 is the second game in the series, starting with Shogun: Total War, and they show no signs of slowing 
 down.
  Gameplay: M: TW is one of the most in-depth games in the genre. You start by choosing one of the 
 many factions within three different time periods in the medieval era. Depending on the time period 
 you choose, you will be given control of a certain number of provinces throughout Europe, the Mediterranean 
 and the Middle East. From here, you are on your own. You can choose to upgrade your current provinces 
 by buying new buildings or upgrading your defenses. You can choose to build up your armies and 
 take over other provinces from opposing factions. You can send diplomats to make alliances with 
 friendly nations and team up against common enemies. Basically, you can do anything you want but 
 you must achieve one basic goal, take over the entire world. You must tax your citizens to create 
 funds for your armies but at the same time, keep them happy so that they don't revolt. You must 
 follow the rules of the Papal states, but at the same time, remember that you must eventually take 
 them over. The possibilities are endless. This makes the online portion of the game, absolutely 
 incredible. The amount of deception and surprises are enough to keep anyone interested. The only 
 downfall is that when you start a game, you are in for the long haul. Each individual campaign 
 can take days or even weeks to complete. You can save anywhere, anytime, however, so it's not like 
 you have to keep playing until you finish. Also, if you just want a quick game, you can choose 
 to start individual battles. These can be historic battles or custom battles. These consist of 
 two set armies (historical are preset, custom is you create the armies) , fighting in an individual 
 battle. These take plenty of strategy to complete but nothing is better than executing the perfect 
 strategy in the middle of a decisive battle. The historical battles consist of many real-life battles 
 that took place and you get to control the outcome. So, whether you want to play this game for 
 a couple of hours or a couple of minutes, there is something for you.
  Graphics: The graphics are very good for a strategy game like this. The world map has a distinct, 
 medieval feel to it that is perfect for this game. Also the battles are very detailed and if you 
 zoom in very closely, you can tell the amount of detail put into the character models.
  Sounds: The sounds are perfect. The clashing of battles, the calm, strategic music of the world 
 map, it all works perfectly. The music falls perfectly into the background but is enjoyable at 
 the same time. You won't be muting this one.
  Value: With all the different factions and time periods and the difficulties, this won't be getting 
 boring for quite some time. Whether you are a newbie at strategy games or an expert looking for 
 a challenge, you won't be dissapointed. Easy is a good challenge for someone starting into the 
 genre and Very Hard definitely lives up to it's name. Also, the length of the campaigns, the historical 
 and custom battles, and the online multiplayer all make an incredible game that you will be playing 
 years from now.
  Overall, Medieval: Total War has something for everyone. Newbie or expert, long haul or pick-up-and-play 
 gamer, you won't be dissapointed. If you have any interest in strategy games or even if you just 
 want a game that will last you a while, this is perfect for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luckypool04
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 29, 2006 11:46 am PT
Review:  Medieval Total War is a game you have to either have alot of time to play or you have to have like 
 no other games becuase it takes up alot of your time becuase of so many diffrent countrys you have 
 to control it can take about 30 min or longer sometimes just to get all your units in perfect order 
 to go to the next year (Thats if you dont do the in game fighting) . 
  
  STORY: You choose your faction and year then you Start off as a lone nation with a few units at 
 your command surrounded by tons of enemy armys.
  
  GRAPHICS: There's nothing like seeing thousands of individual units doing battle at the same time.
 
  
  ENTERTAINMENT: Medieval is a great game no doubt with hard enemys and long battles between nations 
 and if your into this type of strategy then this is your perfect game. But if your into more of 
 a fps or high action game then i would not get it becuase for Me it is just Too slow. I tryed to 
 even to cheat my way to the top to put a little more OVerKill to the feeling but i still could 
 not have as much fun as i would if was playing a fps or somthing of the like. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: i_hate_rangers
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 18, 2006 2:15 pm PT
Review:  Let me set the scene, your in your most comfortable seat wearing your suit of armour ready to play 
 Medieval Total War.
  Right now to business it has great gameplay and is well worth the money you pay for it however 
 its the game's graphics that let it down for example when you are playing battles the men sometime 
 look like little blobs when i combat. This should not put you off though as the graphics you can 
 live with.
  
  There is also some cool historic battles like the Battle of Hastings that you can play a battle 
 tutorial which teaches you how to move troops and besiege a castle and theres a campaign tutorial 
 to get you started with the management side of the game.
  
  To cut a long story short, Buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Irvine78
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 24, 2006 10:19 pm PT
Review:  I was unaware of this game's existance for a year. I had played my friend's copy of Shogun: Warlord 
 Edition until I almost wore out my mouse, and then I moved from Texas to Hawaii and started high 
 school. Then for my 15th birthday I saw Medieval in the BXtra (I didn't even realize it had been 
 released, or was in production... totally oblivious) . Based solely on the kickass experience with 
 Shogun, I bought it. A few hours later, I was leading the Danes on an empire-building frenzy through 
 the Mediterranean.
  
  The scale of this game is just disgusting. It really is. More historically accurate than Rome, 
 better looking than Shogun, and you can buy it now for an entire $10 in most stores. The descriptions 
 of eras, factions, units and historical events are simply good reading, and a lot of the stuff 
 I absorbed (Through several months worth of osmosis) was used a few years later to completely slaughter 
 AP World History. 
  
  The gameplay, based upon a 2002 standard, was unmatched. It improved upon the fundamentals of the 
 Shogun engine by adding ships, new agents, and a somewhat poorly executed but interesting religious 
 system. Occasionally you will lose a few units behind banners, and sometimes you will unintentionally 
 drop units onto neighboring territories, but there is a screen that warns you that you are about 
 to trigger a major war. A nice fail-safe. The battles, with your units set to maximum, your resolution 
 up to 1280x1024, and all of the effects set on high... are not the most impressive things you may 
 have ever seen (Especially if you have been picking away at Rome) . But the camera functions quite 
 well, able move almost unrestrictedly in three dimensions, and your units are almost always responsive 
 to your commands.
  
  The sounds of battle are done quite well, for an older game. I would give an 8 here, but it receives 
 a 9 for one sound in particular... when killing your captured soldiers in battle (The ones you can 
 hold for ransom) , there is perhaps the single best sound effect ever utilized in the history of 
 video games. Somewhere between crushing bones, slitting throats and the helpless cries of men being 
 slaughtered, you start to realize just why this game is a masterpiece.
  
  And value? Crap. You will beat the Grand Theft Auto trilogy TWICE before you have seen everything 
 this game has to offer. Each faction plays a different game, and with the option to fast-forward 
 time a few hundred years you can play shorter games if 1087 to 1453 sounds a bit too epic for you. 
 And the four difficulty levels should also keep you busy.
  
  I complained about not being able to play as the Argonese, the Hungarians and the Sicilians at 
 one point. And then I found Viking Invasion and got my junk tossed. And you can get both Medieval 
 and the expansion for about $20 now. $20 bucks for months and months of slaughter, and frankly 
 a great history lesson. Buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: classic7
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 3, 2007 5:38 pm PT
Review:  Medieval was one of the experiences that you don't know is coming until it just hits you. I bought 
 Medieval not expecting much only paying about $20. What i got was a game that changed my view on 
 strategy games and got me hooked on the rest of the series. It's sequel has since come out but 
 Medieval will always be the favorite of long time fans. This is a game you do not want to bypass.
 
  
  Gameplay- It takes a little getting used to but once masterd, playing the game is just a blast. 
 From researching new tech and raising taxes, to controlling massive armies and destroying your 
 enemies it doesn't lose any of its luster.
  
  Sound- The musical score was so great you almost thought they were playing it just for you and 
 your massive empire.
  
  Value- Not only with online play but with all the single player options this game will stand the 
 test of time.
  
  Reviews Tilt- I love this game and will continue to play it for as long as i can stand it. This 
 is an experience that you don't want to miss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LM101
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 1, 2006 7:13 am PT
Review:  Medieval Total War is the sequel to Shogun Total War and this game is simplay amazing. On the campaign 
 mode you choose a country to go and you try and conquer the world. You move your armies from one 
 country to the next and you have to defeat the opponents army. You go into a war were you army 
 fights your opponents army in great 3-D graphics in stunning detail. You make more men when you 
 collect money from each year and battles. You can also seige castles using seige weapons such as 
 catapults. This is one of the best RTS games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LittleDuck
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 27, 2006 11:16 am PT
Review:  Whilst not the best game in the world, this game will give a run for that games money. It is alot 
 of fun empire building with moments of sheer joy and destruction. However with every pro comes 
 a con. The battle map really could use refining. It is a bit too simple, with times of annoying 
 blank. The naval battles are non playable (which is understandable as it would take a year) and 
 the single battles are generally fun. My only hate point of this game is the map and it's armies. 
 The map is a good idea. The movement is a bad one. See it's possible to take 1 million short cuts 
 in this game if you A have enough allies and B have enough territory, which defies the point really. 
 An army can't move across a country as quickly as they do. Perhaps a better travel system will 
 surfice here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: captaincrazydj
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 27, 2006 10:00 am PT
Review:  The first time I played this I found it confusing, but I read the manual, played the game and soon 
 found it excellent. It's concept and in-game graphics are very good. The unit's are excellent. 
 The research that went into this game are worth it I was very satisfied. It has realistic factions 
 which are played with almost human like qualities even though they are played by computers. Overall 
 this game was excellent and the expansion is twice as excellent. The expansion is worth buying 
 as it adds an entire campaign, period and series of battles. They are both excellent and I was 
 very satisfied by them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evilpasty
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 18, 2006 1:36 am PT
Review:  I first picked up this game when it came out in late 2002 after playing it's predecessor Shogun: 
 Total War. That game was great but Medieval is better 10 fold. The total war series are unique 
 for mixing real time battles and a turn based campaign game. It may not be for everyone and the 
 learning curve is a tad steep for newcomers. The campaign tutorial is very brief and only covers 
 the most basic actions. If this is your first total war game I strongly suggest playing through 
 the battle tutorials as they will teach you how to organize your troops, use your strenghts against 
 the opponents weaknesses (i. e. using heavy cavalry to charge archers or using spearmen to defend 
 against cavalry) , exploiting tactical advantages like terrain height or ambushes and how to conduct 
 fortification assaults. The sound in the game is wonderful with ambients playing while in the campaign 
 map interface. When fighting a battle, the sound changes depending on whats happening. For instance, 
 if the enemy is attacking you the music will change and go up in tempo to accentuate the frenzy 
 of battle. There are many factions to play including the french, english, italians, spanish, egyptians, 
 byzantines and the turks. Most of the similar factions share units but some have unique troops 
 (such as english longbowmen and danish vikings) . There are three tech trees essentially with some 
 slight variation between them for the three religions in the game: Catholic christianity, Islam, 
 and Orthodox christianity. The catholic factions can build cathedrals while the islamic factions 
 build mosques and so on. The campaign game has 3 starting periods within the 1087 a. d. to 1453 
 a. d. time period and different technology is available later in the game. For instance if playing 
 as a catholic faction you can train fuedal knights in the early period but once you advance to 
 the year 1205 you can train a better unit: Chivalric knights , which are more powerful (if you 
 have constructed the appropriate buildings) . It is essential to use the tech tree to plan what 
 buildings and troop types to construct in different porvinces as you don't have enough time to 
 build everything in all of your provinces as some buildings like a fortress can take up to 20 years 
 to construct. You can also trade with other provinces by constructing ports and merchants which 
 will increase your income more than regular farm and mine upgrades can and in turn allow you to 
 field more men. There are two types of campaigns, "Domination" - where your goal is to conquer 
 all or most of europe, or the "Glorious Achievements" - in which you gain points for certain tasks 
 such as building a cathedral or successfully using a crusade to capture a specific province. In 
 this manner you don't need to conquer everyone to win, you just have to survive and tally the most 
 points. There are also in seperate menus, historical campaigns and historical battles. There is 
 tons of replay value in this game as you can play as over a dozen factions and a single campaign 
 takes hours to complete. I myself have lost well over 1000 hours playing this game over the past 
 3 years. It is highly reccomendable to anyone who likes medieval warfare or strategy games. As 
 for anyone else, just try it, you might get sucked in. I also would highly reccomend pruchasing 
 the Viking Invasion expansion pack with this game (ot together if you get the battle chest edition) 
 as it adds more units to the original campaign and then a seperate campaign set in britain during 
 the dark ages. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oops337
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 15, 2006 12:07 pm PT
Review:  Medieval Total War is probably the best strategy game I've played so far, infinite replayability 
 which is better than usual because you'll WANT to play it over and over. It has multiple factions 
 each with their own religion, map space and unique units, there are some exceptions with the catholic 
 factions which generally have the same time of units (men at arms, spearmen, archers, knights) 
 but that's because historically they all had that. If there is any flaws in this game they would 
 be:
  
  a) The battle-fields are pretty similar, there's only a couple things that are really different 
 like mountainous, desert, flatlands, valleys.
  
  b) The AI cheats! If you're doing too well then it springs up rebellions everywhere!
  
  c) Long 
 loading times even if its only a couple hundred unit battle
  
  It has a turn based campaign which is very similar to Risk but with way more depth that a board 
 game could never have. All conflicts can be sorted out either simulating the battles, or the cream 
 of the crop, real time battles which are the most realistic I've ever seen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pmcollectorboy
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 7, 2006 6:53 pm PT
Review:  The Total War games have always been about deep strategy, and while one of their older games, Medieval 
 is no exception. Many games try to be a "castle simulator", in which you build your stronghold 
 and try to control its different aspects as well as its army. Medieval: Total War isn't like this 
 but instead blends Risk style piece manipulation on a map of Europe and North Africa with real 
 time army clashing on various battlefields. Medieval: Total War has depth to spare on both sides. 
 First you select your civilization, each with different aspects, units, and even relative difficulty 
 level. Then on the turn based map you basically run your empire. You can control things like food 
 output and amount of taxes. Each county has different resources that benefit the empire in different 
 ways. You also build the buildings that give you the different combat units. But not only do you 
 control the pieces that represent your armies but different characters as well. The King, obviously, 
 is the most important character of your empire. Not only does he run the country, but he can produce 
 sons (to become future kings) and daughters (to marry off to barons or even allies from other countries) . 
 Then when the King dies, the eldest son will then become King, and as the years roll on, you can 
 watch your lineage expand, just like in real history. There are also generals that you can control. 
 Generals form the core of your armies, but they also serve another purpose. You can give titles 
 to the most worthy generals, thus making them mayors of the respective county. These kings, princesses, 
 and generals aren't just faceless units. They have portraits and seemingly realistic names and 
 different aspects like literacy (how well he can affect the economy) , piety (useful for the more 
 religious counties) , command (how well he leads the army in battle) , and dread (how much men fear 
 him) as well as colorful elements like strengths and vices that add nothing to the gameplay but 
 all still enhance the atmosphere of the game. There are also more minor units like ambassadors 
 and popes.
  
  Then when your armies meet an opposing army, the game switches to the real time battlefield fighting, 
 and here is where the game gets even more interesting. Unlike most strategy war games, where you 
 often have to drag boxes around the units and tell them to attack, Medieval wages war by grouping 
 the armies into squads of the same unit type. No longer do you have to micromanage tiny units. 
 You just control the different squads. The game features a dynamic battle system where you can 
 assign the basic formation type and how deep the ranks go, but with your mouse you can modify the 
 formation by "painting" where it goes, how wide it is, and at what angle it will engage the enemy. 
 The different units work best against different enemy types. Rows of archers and longbowmen can 
 scatter your foes and weaken their ranks while they head towards your army. However your archers 
 need protection from close range encounters. Pikemen are best when they're planted firmly in place 
 and wait for charging knights. Swordsmen are your basic units, and knights can work wonders even 
 in small squads. And don't underestimate your peasants. Victory is determined by a number of factors. 
 The relative strength of your generals is a plus. But placement, timing, and facing the right direction, 
 as well as having the right troops, are the biggest factors. Your king can also join the battle 
 as a slightly beefed up knight, but take care that he doesn't die in battle. The game, thankfully, 
 features tutorials that give you the basics in proven medieval tactics. One favored tactic is to 
 hide two different squads in forests on the opposite sides of a valley that the enemy is coming 
 up. Another squad stands in plain sight in the middle of the valley to meet the enemy while the 
 two hiding squads wait until the enemy is past them before springing a charge. The game is also 
 realistic in that if one of your squads is starting to lose badly, the units in that squad will 
 start to run away, and you will lose complete control of them until they get their bravery back.
 
  
  If you have won the battle, any enemy units that have fled will escape to a friendly county if 
 one exists. Any people you captured during the battle can have their fated decided upon by you, 
 whether it's to let them go, execute them, or execute only the leaders. If the enemy escapes into 
 a nearby castle, you can go into siege mode, where you wear down their resources until you decide 
 to attack them, and here is where the very cool siege engines like catapults, trebuchets, and ballistas 
 come into play. Of course if you have lost the battle, all of the above can happen to you.
  
  Medieval is a very deep, thoroughly enjoyable game, but several things keep it down from the 
 best. For one, the graphics, while servicable, are nowhere near the level seen in Rome. Second, 
 campaigns take a long time to complete. Finally, I find it annoying that even if I'm allies with 
 a nation, the leader still won't let me march through his country down what is often the only path 
 to my goal unless it's part of a crusade. Even still, these minor nitpicks don't destroy what is 
 otherwise a solid strategy game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Armalite1016
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 8, 2006 6:05 pm PT
Review:  All I can say at first is: wow. This is a game that you dont find everyday. Infact, you really 
 don't find games like this, except the other games in the Total war series, which are just as good, 
 but I am not reviewing them.
  
  There are 2 parts in this game, which are completely different in their own respects. The first 
 part, and probably the main part of the game, is the actual battles of the game, which host thousands 
 and thousands of soldiers fighting on screen. Because of the mass and realism of the battles, it 
 is easy to overlook the some what poor graphics which make up the soldiers. The only problem with 
 the battles is that you dont see very much chaotic brawling, as in the groupings of soldiers usually 
 do not "mix" with each other. Only the front lines of battalions fight and the rest stand still 
 waiting for their allies to die so they can move forward waiting to fight, instead of rushing into 
 the mess. Another thing is that the calvary do not trample troops. they will simply stop and start 
 hacking, while they could simply run them ove, r and arrows do not do as much damage as you would 
 think, but looking at all other aspects of the battles, it will be very easy to overlook these 
 minor errors. 
  
  The campain is basically perfect with the only flaw whatsoever that I saw is that you cannot travel 
 through ally territory without waging war on them. Other han that, it is amazing.
  
  This game is one of the best stradegy games, period.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: StoicLeopard
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 5, 2006 11:43 am PT
Review:  Before you look at the numbers and think that I am baised understand that it is with a cavet. I 
 mean that for strategy players this is the perfect game, because it incorporates all the things 
 one could wnat in a strategy game and it runs on a lower end comp. So many people seem to assume 
 everybody has a killer machine with which to run the latest and greatest but you must realize for 
 most of the world they have a family computer that is not that powerful and only play 2-3 year 
 old games. This game is an epic experience for anyone whose comp choked on C&C Generals or KOTOR. 
 However if you are into twitch fests then you might become bored by the patience this game requires 
 but for those rts people this is the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: commando21
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 31, 2006 1:53 pm PT
Review:  Medevil Total War is a great real time stategy game with good graphics and detail if you are a 
 fan of shougon total war or rome total war then you will love this game and will have you playing 
 hours and hours online and offline this game is really fun and I think this is one of the best 
 real time strategy game of all time! If you haven't played rome total war or shougan war then you 
 shoud then you'v been missing out on a great real time strategy game thank you all the people who 
 put there time in this GAME!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skizz624
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 29, 2006 3:36 pm PT
Review:  this is just a simple slow playing game, requires alot of thought, and not alot of action. actually 
 is a very relaxing game, so if you have alot of time to kill then this will do it. not much graphics 
 to it, so it won't lag down your system to much. same concept as risk but goes farther back in 
 history. three different levels of history to play . you can build a war empire or you can just 
 be a monetary powerhouse. join the crusades with the english and french or start a jihad against 
 a foreign land, war or peace is just a click away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wakkarr
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 21, 2006 5:05 pm PT
Review:  Medieval: Total War is simply the most immersive, detailed and intricate strategy game there is. 
 Everything about the game is excellent.... well except the graphics, the environments look good 
 enough, but your units are 2D blobs made of a dozen or so pixels. So if you want a beautiful looking 
 game that is nice and simple and doesn't have all of the difficulty of managing your empire play 
 Rome. The turn based section of this game is incredibly detailed and is constantly interesting, 
 you can manage just about everything to do with your empire or let the AI do it for you, but if 
 you use the AI you'll be missing half of the fun.
  
  This game is a must have for all people who claim to like strategy gaming, if you can overlook 
 the poor unit graphics then this will be the best $10 (Au) you will ever spend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: differentiation
Rating: 7.6
Date: Dec 30, 2005 10:04 pm PT
Review:  After seeing the movie Kingdom of Heaven, I now know that it was the Christians that started the 
 war, it was the Europeans' fault... they are barbaric unlike the refined Arabs. You'll have to play 
 as a Crusader in this game and slaughter the innocent Arabs.
  
  The interface is good, it has a campaign map where you can make your decisions and move troops 
 about the map, and a battle map when you can command your men in real time (think Lords of the 
 Realm 2) . It's easy to understand but hard when you're being invaded by surrounding countries, 
 or when the enemy attacks a province that you thought was safe from sea. The battle map is nice, 
 although I wished that you can have more control of the camera such as zooming out more so you 
 can see better. The graphics range from OK to bad, don't be surprised if your spearman has a blocky 
 triangle for the tip when you zoom in. The amount of men you can control isn't grand, but good 
 enough to reflect the lower population in the Middle Ages. Strategy is key in winning battles and 
 if you can help it, fight them yourself unless you know you're going to win or whenever you get 
 sick of micromanaging. That's a problem in the game, is that as you advance there are lots of care 
 needed for the rest of your provinces so don't neglect to look over them every couple of turns. 
 You can defend castles or attack them, you can't get your men on the walls, the towers automatically 
 shoot out. Defending the castle or taking part in sieging it is in my mind the most fun part of 
 the game. You can take part in a crusade and gaining the Papacy's favor is suggested. As your men 
 hit the desert, they will fight less efficiently compared to the Muslims who are better suited 
 to desert warfare, but have less armor than your men. It's a fun game that'll keep you interested, 
 play this before RTW for maximum appreciation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marriage0
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 18, 2005 1:14 pm PT
Review:  you do need a pretty decent pc to play tjis game because when all hell breaks loose i9t tends to 
 get a bit jerky. 
  
  single player:
  my first impressions of the single player were that it was a cracker, i payed the battle of hastings 
 and was hooked, the problem was, i then thought the whole game ws jiust battle after battle, which 
 would have been great, but it wsnt. it then goes all "risk" on ya as you have to buy troops etc 
 which can be fun if you know what your doing but gets a bit tedious, the actual battles are stunning.
 
  
  multiplayer:
  to be honest i havnt played it multiplayer much as it tends to lag heavily, i hav 2mb broadband 
 yet when i play it gets so jerky it crashes my pc, with no tevhincal problems it wpuld be a ball.
 
  
  overall:
  a good game, a few downfalls, but with the patience and a good enough pc it is stunning. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fecalproduction
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 9, 2005 8:03 am PT
Review:  this game has large lulls in the action while moving troops from one area to another. the game 
 play is pretty cool and is mouse driven. i like games where i don't need to learn to many buttons 
 and this one has an easy mouse driven interface that makes enjoyable game play almost immediate. 
 however, the action does get repetitive and the battlefields do begin to look very similar. also, 
 this makes the difficulty level seem very easy to me. the value rating on this game is high because 
 i bought it cheap. the sounds of the troops is pretty cool and sounds great while moving, running 
 and battling ... but the music soundtrack is lacking and there's almost no music at all during 
 most of the game ... i'm a firm believer that music can really add to the mood of a good game and 
 this music just really does not do that. graphics are good and i'm always impressed when games 
 represent a multitude of battling characters ... this game does that well ... but i'm always looking 
 for that game where the charcters are actually seperate individuals that can move away from their 
 designated groups and battle alone ... kind of like the multiple character quality in State of 
 Emergency ... now i know this technology can be hard to achieve ... but if they can do it on the 
 PS2 i'm sure they can do it on the PC. so i'm always waiting for the war game that treats the troops 
 like individuals and not groups. i'm sure this would impact game play ... but it's just and idea. 
 overall, for the money this is a good game and looks good on the computer and has easy game play 
 that leads to a quick mastery of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mnkyking
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 5, 2005 2:25 pm PT
Review:  This game is incredible. It nearly perfects the Total War engine used on the previous games, and 
 the results are amazing. The gameplay is rock solid. This is probably the most fun, engaging and 
 historically accurate games out there set in the Middle Ages. The game is like a mix between risk 
 and Age of Empires: in the campaign you build buildings and create units and do all sorts of stuff 
 on a huge map of Europe. When you go to battle, however, the game "zooms in" to the battlefield, 
 where you command your troops. The battles and castle seiges are amazing. The only flaw, which 
 is basically the only flaw in teh whole game, is that the graphics aren't spectacular. The characters 
 and textures are rather blocky, but the rest of the fighting system is stupendous. The sounds and 
 music sounds like it was pulled right from the Middle Ages, and sets the game's mood. Overall, 
 I personally enjoy this game almost more than any other RTS. The sequal, Rome Total War, just doesn't 
 feel the same, and it's still pretty exspensive. If you are a history buff, a RTS lover, or just 
 anyone with a computer who wants a great, solid game, buy this game. A final factor that should 
 sway many people into buying the game is that it is cheap to. So check your bargain bins, becasue 
 this is one bargain that will knock your socks off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: g_man_1989
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 17, 2005 11:57 am PT
Review:  This is a great game for people who like medieval times and this game gives alot of great gameplay 
 and fun
  There are alot of options in this game, there are custom battles, campaign, historical battles, 
 and historical campaigns. In the custom battle you get to choose what country to be and how many 
 men you want in your army.
  The best part of the game is the campaign, which you can pick between 3 eras of the midieval age, 
 early, high, and late. There are also many factions you can play as and each one has the own advantage 
 anf disadvantage, and even so excusive men.
  once you choose the country you want to be than you begin the campaign, now not every campaign 
 is the same, but this makes for a challange.
  You can upgrade workshops to get better armys and crush any enemy you want. In the historical battles 
 you replay historic battles that happened during the Middle ages, and in the historical campaign 
 you can follow a war and win it your way.
  Overall this game is one of the best i have ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CRM114
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 28, 2005 8:06 pm PT
Review:  It's been more than three years since this game's release and I still am searching for an alternative 
 option for strategy goodness. Hundreds of units, an interesting historical setting, intricate strategy, 
 and unbelievably addicting gameply truly set this game apart from the rest. The unique blend of 
 turn-based and real-time combat almost never gets old, only after playing through a campaign as 
 every possible faction (including those in the expansion) did I stop playing this game. Don't be 
 fooled by the flashy graphics of its sequel, MTW is the far superior product. It's not uncommon 
 to find the major Real-Time battles lasting over an hour, but they are well worth it given the 
 time and investment put into your armies on the strategic map. If you never played this game, and 
 enjoy strategy games, or have any interest in history you owe it to yourself to pick this one up. 
 At 20 bucks its a total steal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tharionwind
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 19, 2005 10:15 pm PT
Review:  A very impressive list of details. From sounds to graphics to depth of economic and military management. 
 A sequel truly worthy of its highly rated predecessor, MTW brings the best blend of a turn-based 
 Risk-like strategy game and Real time tactics to life. 
  
  The entire series is quality stuff. Comparable to the quality of the Warcraft, Starcraft or Age 
 of Empires series. Yet an excellent blend of turn-based gaming with real time tactics. Economic 
 and military planning at the strategic level are above its competitors. Sound, graphical and subtle 
 details (terrain, weather, morale etc) are truly amazing.
  
  Remember this game is now three years old and its VERY WELL DONE. Its been 3 years but this game 
 is still awesome. Big Kudos to Creative Assembly and Activision for this high quality Total War 
 series! I bought the combo MTW/Viking Invasion for $20 and was worth every penny.
  
  If you like AOE, old school RISK and a mix of medieval Knights, Archers and Kings oh my - GET THIS 
 GAME. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wladyslaw_I
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 15, 2005 2:12 pm PT
Review:  Perfection at it's finest. Every element done over with a fine toothed comb depicting that this 
 game is the best of times and well the best of times. 
  
  The music is superb. So... relaxing and in-tune with my personality at least. The strategy map 
 screen? Hey, enjoy moving armies across the entire continent of Europe, Asia Minor and Northern 
 Africa with the intent of pillage, looting and emotionless conquest? That's what the game's about! 
 Besides building countlessly innumberable buildings, upgrading them, improving your economy but 
 in a simply manor that does not involve that hectic 'oh it's time for this or to adjust that' aspect 
 of something you don't particulary enjoy about economic building when you're really just a rampaging 
 war monger. The battles? They are in high detail and graphic, colorful, with good sound quality 
 and "wimpering" I'll just say. Lead your troops to victory! For this is TOTAL, WAR..... (And just 
 for $20)
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: katana211
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 20, 2005 11:42 pm PT
Review:  this is a perfect game. The graphics arent as good as other TW games, but it makes up those faults 
 with realistic battle action, great ai, and powerful troops. it is a great overall game worthy of 
 a 10 out of 10, EXECPT its graphics engine is faulty. im sorry but i have to rant about the graphics 
 because it is the only problem with the game. If i wrote a list of great things about this game, 
 it would go on forever. this is a greater game than most give credit for. this is a stunningly brilliant 
 game! It is the best of the TW games by far, and none can deny that fact. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: King_Luke
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 20, 2006 1:27 pm PT
Review:  In Medieval: Total War, you can do what you have always wanted to do! Take over the world! It combines 
 empire building with epic real-time battles.
  
  Medieval: Total War is set between 1095 AD to 1453 AD (the Middle Ages) . You can play as many different 
 countries across Europe and Asia, including the English, French, Germans, Russians and Turkish.
 
  
  You can win the campaign mode in two ways, either through total conquest, or through glorious achievements, 
 which includes successfully launching a crusade to various provinces, keeping your home provinces 
 and other ways.
  
  There are several ways to take over a province. You can make troops turn against their general 
 by planting evidence, leave and army leaderless through assasination, bribe the soldiers to join 
 your cause, cause a religous rebellion, or, of course, take it over with force. All of these ways 
 have their advantages and disadvantages, but all give satisfaction when you pull them off.
  
  The real-time combat mode is fantastic. You can really use the terrain to your advantage, whether 
 through setting up an ambush or managing to get your enemy to run straight up a hill at you, only 
 to be shot down by your archers stationed above. Somehow sending in your heavily armoured Halbierders 
 to cause the enemy to flee before telling your poor-in-battle-but exceedingly-fast Mounted Sergeants 
 to chase them down and take them as prisoners never gets old.
  
  The online play is fun too, though I admit I'm not very good at it. You really get the feeling 
 your a general in the Middle Ages.
  
  So to sum up - go on a Crusade! Medieval: Total War is a great game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Capitalist
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 18, 2005 10:05 pm PT
Review:  RTS games come out all the time. Most of them only contain paltry populations, unreal gameplay, 
 and primitive diplomocy.
  
  But, MTW is rather different from all the RTS's coming out today. It achieves a rare quality of 
 historical and gameplay realism not seen in much games. And that is what makes this RTS so special 
 and different from the rest.
  
  There are two "games" within this game to play. First is the battle engine, where you take the 
 battles and use special units to duke it out, or a campaign, where you play diplomocy on Europe. 
 Both games are pretty good, and pretty hard to master the first few weeks. You get to play a nation, 
 and then conquer Europe, simply through diplomocy, epsionage, or just eat your way through Europe 
 with the power of flesh and steal.
  
  In the battle engine, there are morale, ammo, weather conidtions that immede your troops, hiding 
 in forests, flank attacks and ambushes - in other words, real time combat. The combat engine is 
 not atrocious, but, there are some confusion about how to command troops, and sometimes when your 
 troops split up and try to chase the enemy, it's hard to round them up, thus leading to potential 
 disaster.
  
  Graphics in this game are not astounding, but, are not bad; as the 3D effects in the game can be 
 subtle at times, and the units, although bitnaps, are fully animated and hardly look like bitnaps 
 at all. Sound and music are very subtle as well, as sounds are used to indicate things that happen 
 on the battlefield and the music oftens becomes more dramatic as the battle wears on.
  
  In conclusion, MTW is a game of many games, very realistic, and can take some time to master, but, 
 highly recommended to anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeoNeoNeo
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 17, 2004 6:40 am PT
Review:  I have just purchased Medieval Total war now that it has become a bargain classic. I must say that 
 the game overall is very good and that there are quite a few changes from shogun. I did find that 
 the learning curve was quite steep particularly with the economic system and trading.
  
  You really have to pay attention to the acumen rating of whomever you are giving the provincial 
 title to. It could mean the difference between earning 100 florins a year and 300. It is probably 
 worth it to keep producing peasants in the hope of getting a commander with an acumen of at least 
 four. You can always disband them afterwards. 
  
  The AI is much better than in Shogun and in a number of battles surprised me by beating me handily. 
 The map and larger number of opponents makes things a bit more challenging strategically and the 
 games tend to be longer. The archer and crossbow units seem to be underpowered compared to shogun 
 because they are almost useless in hand to hand combat and do relatively little damage to justify 
 their inclusion in an army. They are much better at sieges.
  
  My only complaint is the trading system. It does not really make much sense from an income perspective. 
 So much time and investment in ships, harbours and trading infrastructure is required that it can 
 never repay for itself. By the time any trading system might be developed enough to pay for the 
 upkeep of the fleet (which gets more expensive the father away it is from your own harbours) you 
 will be well on your way to winning.
  
  Medieval is a great game and a no brainer purchase now that it is around $20.
  
  Regards,
 
  
  NeoNeoNeo
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: martlume
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 24, 2004 12:50 am PT
Review:  Medieval: Total War is at the same time a turn-based strategy game in the likes of Risk or Civilization 
 and a realistic real-time tactical combat simulation featuring hundreds if not thousands of individual 
 soldiers. Luckily the two parts can also be experienced separately: turn-based strategy by letting 
 the computer resolve all combat mathematically during the single player campaign, and tactical 
 combat by battling your way though the five historic campaigns without ever managing your empire. 
 The first game of the series, Shogun: Total War, introduced the series trademark of realistic and 
 immense battles on beautiful landscapes, with the strategy aspect of empire management being very 
 basic. In Medieval: Total War, the strategy part has been greatly advanced. The two-dimensional 
 world map of Medieval looks similar to the one of board-game Risk, with 12 nations spread across 
 the provinces that make up Europe and near-Mediterranean parts of Asia and Africa. There is a lot 
 more to running an empire than the usual training and moving armies. For example, as a head of 
 your nation you have a family with sons and daughters: marrying your daughters to generals or other 
 nations royal family increases the loyalty of the latter to you. The sons would make good generals 
 once they come of age, and after the kings death there has to be at least one heir for you to 
 keep playing (the game covers the period of 400-years with each turn taking a year) . Aditionally, 
 all provinces follow a major world religion; if it happens to be a different one from yours, the 
 province is more likely to revolt. Giving them tax-breaks or appointing a general of the appropriate 
 religion to rule them can be a good decision, but doing so you have to keep your eye on the generals 
 acumen (how much money he can generate from the province) , his piety (his standing with the religion) , 
 dread (can he control the population) , and loyalty (can be raised by giving him land or titles) . 
 To sum up, the strategy part of Medieval has plenty of originality and depth. The only problems 
 are that sometimes the game does not give you enough feedback on the effects of your actions, more 
 information lists etc are needed. The tactical real-time combat part is similar to that of Shogun, 
 and its numerous units and true battle considerations including fatigue, ammunition, slope, facing, 
 and morale make for a very realistic and enjoyable experience. Players have to be warned though, 
 there is a lot of realism in Medieval thus everything takes time (which can be sped up, of course) 
 and most of the battle is decided before it is ever fought by careful pre-planning, which players 
 used to fast mouse-clicking and unit responsiveness of Warcraft or Age of Empires might find frustrating. 
 Although those interested and willing to learn the considerations of realistic medieval battles 
 will find the game very rewarding, some of the aspects of tactical combat have still something 
 left to be desired. For one, by far the best overview can be achieved by zooming out yet it is 
 visually very hard to manage groups from such a distance as the selection is barely noticeable 
 and unit groups get mixed up in the chaos of battle. Obviously, Total War is not about unit micromanagement, 
 but the group separation problem stands big in the way of making decisions in response to enemy's 
 tactics. Hopefully, the next Rome: Total War of 2004 will solve that problem to enable better interaction 
 with enemies' decisions during the battle, and improves on the close-ups and animations of units 
 too. Then Total War would be irresistible to strategy gamers; although Medieval already is a very 
 innovative and a deep game in both strategy and tactics and well worth the time invested.
  
  17/20 - Based on 5 HOURS
  3/4 PRODUCTION VALUES - Units look mediocre and animations quirky 
 - then again there are many of them to be displayed at once.
  2/4 ACCESSIBILITY - Battles are for quite strategy fans. Learning is not too hard but requires 
 special interest (most of battles are decided by pre-planning) .
  4/4 PACING - The campaign is interesting and challenging and meant for single player. 
  4/4 INNOVATION 
 - Total War comes as close to simulating real battles as any game ever (engine will be used to 
 depict some historic battles in TV documentaries) .
  4/4 IMMERSION - If you're into the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stamoz
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 14, 2004 11:59 am PT
Review:  What a game...
  
  Its a full gameplay environment, built to the very detail. I have never seen such a detail in a 
 strategy game before. It involves pretty much everything it could happen in a war in those times. 
 
  
  It inolves politics (create allies, loyalty) , economics (taxes, improve infrastructure) , religion 
 (priests, conversions, temples construction, morale) , assasinations (assasins) , spying (find secrets 
 of enemies and destroy their reputations) , surrender or take prisoners, marry princesses from different 
 nations, increase levels of your generals, kill own troops or unloyal generals, make strategic 
 battles including army formations, groupings and so on and so on. 
  
  Trust me its not very easy to explain how deep the rabbit hole goes.:) It is a must to experience 
 this game and enironment. You have to go through all the factors mentiones above, find the best 
 formula that describes the nation you chosen, make your masterplan and move on to conquer the world. 
 
  
  The battles are very ittense and bloody. You have to control huge armies and lead them to victory. 
 To do so, you will need excellent generals so make sure you upgrade them often and give them battle 
 experiences and prizes. You will have to upgrade your army often with better weapons so that try 
 to improve the technology of your nation. Make sure you improve economics constantly and use the 
 money wisedly. 
  
  Gamers will have to pleasure their people so that they are loyal and dont rebel against you. 
 
  
  Sound is excellent adding to the medieval nature of the game. 
  
  I believe is the most complete game ever created and the graphics are not that bad even now. I 
 am so waiting for the next one coming soon: Rome Total War. However, I would still reccommend this 
 one even now. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Decknique
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 31, 2004 2:27 am PT
Review:  This game is tons'o'fun. I don't know how many times I've spent playing this game, only to look 
 up at the clock and gasp, sighing to myself, dear god it is 1 in the morning and I have to be at 
 work in five hours. This game, especially with viking invasion (which adds another great and nifty 
 element to the game. If you dig historical medieval type games, then snag this puppy up. I've played 
 all of them thus far, Shogun, Medieval, and am eagerly awaiting the latest in the line, once again, 
 I'm sure I'll be sucked into this one. In fact I bought this game brand new and then got it stolen 
 from me. I liked it so much, I went out and bought it a second time. Reminds me a lot of Castles 
 II, as far as replay and such goes. It's all about your taste in genre, but if this is your taste, 
 you wont be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: harden007
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 28, 2004 10:18 am PT
Review:  If you have not played this game, you're missing out. It's easy to learn and fun to play. You can 
 chose from a good number of nations to play as, and you can choose to start at three different 
 times during the middle-ages. A nice variety of units and a great battle engine. Includes a campaign 
 map screen where you give orders to units and armies, and a battle map (in real time) for slugging 
 it out. It's hard to review this game simply because i'm so biased towards it. PLAY IT TODAY. Also, 
 watch for the sequal to this game, ROME: TOTAL WAR. Believe it or not, it should surpass Medieval 
 total war in every area. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmband21088
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 28, 2004 12:55 am PT
Review:  this is a great game for anyone interested in medieval warfare. it is as close as possible to a 
 real battle. the characters are only 2d but its still cool. the campaign is great, you must control 
 your nation by controlling you armies and buildings and much more. the battles are very cool, you 
 can setup your formation and then begin the battle. as your campaign continues on and technology 
 advances you start to get gunpowder along with canons and stuff . there are caste sieges which 
 can be fun but not that great because you cannot go onto your walls over all it is worth it now 
 to buy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paganstar
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 25, 2004 10:46 pm PT
Review:  This was a very hard game. Many people did not like it because you could not just send your army 
 en masse and win (you would pretty much get slaughtered everytime doing that) . This is what I truly 
 liked about this game. It took real strategic thinking an a knowledge of midevil military strategy 
 to play this. The tutorials were a must even for a seasoned player as it would give you an idea 
 just what your opponent would be capable of (for example in the second tutorial a very basic one 
 about placing troops your opponent secretly starts executing the pincer manuver on you) 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
