-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Medieval: Total War - Viking Invasion
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/medievaltotalwarvi/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May  8, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.2
Critic Score: 8.3, 20 Review (s)
User Score: 8.6, 636 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision
Developer: Creative Assembly
Genre: Historic Real-Time...
Date:     May 7, 2003
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This expansion is for those who already played Medieval and want more of the same. The Vikings campaign 
 is great fun, and the Vikings themselves are a blast to play. 

  The Viking Invasion expansion pack for the complex strategy game, Medieval: Total War, has finally 
 arrived. And like the Mongol Invasion add-on for Shogun: Total War several years ago, it adds new 
 content and features based on the "barbarians at the gates" concept. But rather than thrust barbarian 
 raiders into the original game's Middle Ages campaign of knights and holy crusades, Viking Invasion 
 actually dials back the clock to present the Dark Ages of English history.  

          The new Viking Campaign takes place in the Dark Ages in the British Isles.     

  Viking 
 Invasion consists mainly of a new single-player campaign. This is where you'll find most of the 
 new features. The game's original three campaigns are still intact, with a few minor enhancements, 
 but the meat of the expansion is the new Vikings campaign, which begins in 793 A. D. in the British 
 Isles. The new campaign thus takes place several hundred years before the first era of the original 
 game, and also moves a few hundred miles West to center on England. The campaign basically follows 
 the roughly 300 years of history during which the Vikings invaded England while the disparate kingdoms 
 of the Isles were struggling with constant warfare. Eventually, you will unite all of Britain under 
 the banner of one of England or Ireland's indigenous factions, or under Viking domination.  

  Although the British Isles existed on the European map in the original game, in the Viking campaign, 
 they've been expanded to accommodate a full campaign of their own. The new campaign has over 50 
 territories, with all but two existing on the English and Irish islands. Two Scandinavian territories, 
 Hordaland and Jutland (modern day Norway and Denmark) , are the starting points for the new Viking 
 faction. The campaign has a total of eight playable factions; the other seven are the Irish, Mercians, 
 Northumbrians, Picts, Welsh, Saxons, and Scots. With the eight new factions come new units, but 
 most striking of all changes is the new technology tree that comes with the change to a Dark Ages 
 setting instead of a Middle Ages one. First off, religion isn't as important in this new setting. 
 The Pope doesn't exist so you can't be excommunicated for attacking fellow Christians. The only 
 religions are Christianity and Paganism, as followed by the Vikings. Religion is really only important 
 now if you play the Vikings; you'll want to resist converting to Christianity so you can retain 
 your savage effectiveness at sea raiding.  

          The new Viking units make excellent raiders, and are masters of looting enemy provinces. 
     

  Since the Dark Ages were a step back in terms of technology, the technology tree has been flattened 
 to some degree and altered. There are no gunpowder units, and some of the advanced and ethnic units 
 (like Teutonic Knights and camels) are missing. Also, provinces are undeveloped by default; you 
 have to build the new forest clearing and basic farms structures before you can even build farm 
 upgrades. Because of the change in the tech tree, some buildings have different functions or replace 
 old buildings. Again, these changes exist only in the Viking campaign, which uses the Dark Ages 
 tech tree, but the changes are significant and will force Medieval veterans to adjust their strategies. 

  But Viking Invasion's new map, new units, and new buildings aren't the biggest expansion's biggest 
 additions. The most significant enhancement is the Viking faction itself. To model the fearsome 
 raiding that the Vikings conducted from the sea, this faction gets amazing bonuses for attacking 
 coastal territories. The Vikings also have great ships; better than those of any other faction 
 in the new campaign. They all have excellent range, superior attack, and superior defense; they 
 not only dominate other ships in battle, but they also allow Viking troops to move quickly across 
 the sea.     

  After the limited way in Medieval in which you move by sea (then forcing you to wait four years 
 after invading an island to rebuild the port to leave) , the Viking advantage in sea raiding is 
 welcome. You can play as the Vikings and strike anywhere with impunity, attacking the northern 
 tip of the English Island and then the next turn jumping down to the bottom province (provided 
 you follow the rules of controlling the sea squares leading to the coastal territory) . It all boils 
 down to making the Vikings an immensely fun and aggressive faction to play, and makes the Viking 
 campaign a great hit. Moreover, the campaign itself is much more manageable because the overall 
 map is smaller. There are fewer territories to conquer, and thus, games don't take as long to complete. 
 However, there is no glorious achievement victory condition for the Viking Campaign, only total 
 domination. Still, playing through the Viking campaign takes a lot less time than those of the 
 original game -- though it may still seem like a long, long time for new players who aren't accustomed 
 to Medieval's epic campaigns.  

          The new pre-battle screen lets you see enemy forces and sort reinforcements.     

  
 While the expansion pack's most important addition really is the new single-player campaign, it 
 also offers some new content for the three original campaigns, as well as some enhancements to 
 the overall gameplay. Three new factions have been added to the original campaigns: Aragonese, 
 Hungarian, and Sicilians. These new factions are difficult to play because they are small in terms 
 of holdings, but surrounded by hostile neighbors. In addition to the new factions there are also 
 some new units that are shared by many nations, including Slav warriors, Slav javelinmen, armored 
 spearmen, and druzhina cavalry. It's tough to really discern what niche these new units fit into, 
 but the expansion pack at least does a good job of spreading them out across the tech tree so you 
 can experience these new units throughout the game. However, some of the expansion's new units, 
 such as the berserkers in the original game's campaigns, appear only as computer-controlled Rebel 
 units. These other units help keep things interesting, but ultimately, it's frustrating to encounter 
 a unique unit and not be able to build it for yourself.  

  Special agent units have also been enhanced. Many fans of the original Medieval complained that 
 spies and assassins weren't always useful later in the game because it was difficult to improve 
 their valor on the field. The expansion's new inns and brothels let you to upgrade your spies and 
 assassins, so you'll be able to produce assassins that can actually have a shot at killing a high-ranking 
 enemy general.  

  Two new artillery upgrades have made castle sieges more interesting. At last, developer Creative 
 Assembly has listened to the cries of fans and added boiling oil to the game. Now, if you have 
 a keep, during castle defense, you'll automatically pour hot oil on enemy units trying to break 
 into your castle walls. On the attacking side, your catapults will automatically fire burning projectiles 
 as well. Both upgrades are also available in the Viking campaign. The new organ gun siege weapon 
 is available only in the original campaigns, but it's a great anti-personnel weapon that strikes 
 fear into enemy formations and breaks them apart.  

  One final enhancement in the expansion pack is the new battle deployment screen. Before you enter 
 into battle, you'll now see a screen that shows a small rolling panorama of the 3D terrain of the 
 province, the lineup of units set to battle, the commanders, and the reinforcements, if any. You 
 can now set the order in which reinforcements appear, and get a closer look at the enemy units 
 and their abilities, and the commanders involved. You'll need a spy to see this information if 
 you are attacking a province, but this just makes spies an even more valuable part of your strategy. 
 This pre-battle screen is a handy new feature, as it lets you organize your army before battle. 
 You can even quick-save your game at this screen just before entering battle.  

          The battle at Hastings Bridge, which ended the Viking presence in England is the only new 
 historical battle.     

  Creative Assembly has candidly stated that the expansion's main attraction is its single-player 
 campaign, so Viking Invasion doesn't have any real changes or enhancements to multiplayer beyond 
 what you get with the patch. It's unfortunate, because the expansion doesn't have a multiplayer 
 campaign option, which would have been a great new feature. Also, the expansion pack doesn't really 
 enhance Medieval's graphics or sound at all; it's clear that this expansion marks the last time 
 we'll see the Shogun graphics engine, though the expansion pack, like the original game, features 
 an appropriately symphonic music score. The expansion also offers no new features for the map builder 
 or historical campaigns, though it does at least offer one new historical battle, which depicts 
 the battle of English king Harold Godwinson against the Vikings at York in 1066.  

  Overall, the expansion is a great addition to Medieval. The new Viking campaign adds a lot of new 
 content without changing the original gameplay too much. The problems with the game haven't been 
 fixed, such as bare-bones diplomacy that doesn't even let you coordinate attacks and some complex 
 systems, like trading, that are poorly explained. But again, this expansion is for Medieval veterans, 
 who should already know this game well. What they're looking for is new provinces to conquer and 
 new units to play with, and this expansion definitely delivers on those counts. It's fun and more 
 manageable than the original, thanks to the new campaign, and is ultimately a worthwhile addition 
 to the original game.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (6 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: RedneckGamer87
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 9, 2008 10:16 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Their latest, Viking Invasion, the expansion to Medieval: Total War continues with the 
 total war style and a lot of new gameplay that should satisfy fans' hunger for strategy, but the 
 basic gameplay implamets are pretty much the same. Viking Invasion takes a step back in the timeline 
 from Medieval and falls out of the Middle Ages right into the grimy and war torn Dark Ages right 
 after the fall of the Roman Empire. The game also takes a step out of Europe as a whole and focuses 
 on a much smaller part of the whole. The new campaign hasa new set-up with the battle maps to accompany 
 each territory. Viking Invasion not only allows you to play as the Vikings on their tear across 
 the sea, but also as any one of the eight surviving kingdoms on the British Isles like the Scots, 
 Vikings, saxons etc. Of course some fractions are richer then others and will have an easier time 
 building and defeding your kingdom. But for some other fractions like the scots who are not as 
 powerful, have a exposed costline for vikings to raid. Some of the new units you get to use are 
 Arab Infantry, Byzantine Lancers, Swabian Swordsman, and Steppe Heavy Cavalry. 
  
  Graphics: The graphics are really quite good in this game when it came out. Large battlefields 
 and thousands of troops to control which are colorful and detailed, eyecandy. Also are quite smooth 
 to watch.
  
  Sound: The sound is really good. The soundtrack really suits the games timeperiod. Sound effects 
 are well done aswell and so is the voice acting. 
  
  Value: All in all this is a really good expantion pack which of course gives you hours of replayability. 
 I highly recommend this RTS game to anyone, this game will not dissapoint. I give this game 8.5 
 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anofalye
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 6:51 pm PT
Review:  I am not a fan of this expansion. I am not playing this new Viking scenario much.
  
  However, it adds a lot of feature and correct many bugs with the main game. I suppose I could draw 
 a list of bugs it corrects, but honestly I don't recall what it was exactly before the expansion, 
 I know it was different... and I remember been happy with many changes... yet it has been quite sometimes 
 now... so I can't pinpoint all the changes. Pinpointing only 1 or 2 changes wouldn't be fair.
  
  The Viking campaign in itself is interesting. But I didn't replay it much.
  
  Yet... this 
 expansion only improve the game, thereby it is safe to buy it. At worst, you will not know what 
 it does exactly but it will improve slightly your game experience if you don't play in the Viking 
 setting.
  
  The official reviews doesn't pinpoints the corrected bugs, but they are there. Now maybe a patch 
 will address those changes as well, maybe not, maybe it will be poorly coded... I don't know. I 
 know that with the expansion, everything is smooth and fine.
  
  All in all, unless you are hurting for each box you can save, I would recommend getting it with 
 the game, it won't change much, but it will correct quite a few things. Sorry if my memory fails 
 me and I can't pinpoint out what... been playing for too long with them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: devilreyes
Rating: 5.7
Date: Feb 23, 2007 2:09 pm PT
Review:  As far as expansion packs go, Viking Invasion is acceptable. It adds content to Medieval TW that 
 fans of the game will enjoy, yet gives no one else a reason to try it. The focus of this expansion 
 is on adding some replay value to Medieval TW by turning back the clock to the Dark Ages and letting 
 the Vikings loose on Europe. The Vikings aren't the only new faction in the game, but they are 
 the only new one with their own distinct flavor. So if one new, really cool faction is all you 
 want out of an expansion than Viking Invasion will fill the bill just fine for you.
  
  On the other hand if you would like to have seen some serious tweaks and maybe even an engine upgrade, 
 than viking Invasion will leave you wanting. the biggest addition to gameplay is the new army screen 
 before battles. You can now organize your reinforcements before trudging off to war. Frankly, this 
 could have been part of a patch instead of an expansion you have to shell out for. Other tweaks 
 or minor and there's only one new siege unit - the organ gun... whoop-de-friggin-do. The game still 
 has most of the flaws from Shogun intact, nevermind improving on Medieval TW. Getting units right 
 where you want them in the formation you want them is still overly cumbersome... especially when 
 you consider that the AI has none of the organizational limitations that you do. The Campaign Map 
 still looks like crap and you still need to click on way too many things per turn just to keep 
 your empire running efficiently. Chances are you got this expansion bundled with Medieval TW, but 
 if you didn't think before you buy - and make sure you buy it cheap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Strongholdluva
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 28, 2006 7:19 pm PT
Review:  An All-Around Great Game but could use some new flare
  
  Gameplay: The Campaign Mode is Enhanced with The Viking Campaign and you can still do the older 
 versions campaigns. This could use some newer units and it would be cool if you could be the Mongols 
 Or the Swiss. But Still Excellent Gameplay.
  
  Graphics: The part that takes away from the game. The Units Can be Shaky and the shields and spears 
 don't look to great, but well. The Buildings and Siege Engines have the best graphics.
  
  Sound: Pretty good. During battle you have a advisor that for some of you that don't know a advisor 
 gives you advice&gt; ( D D D) When you exacute enemy troops it sounds pretty disgusting. The units 
 fighting sound allright although some sound more like animals than humans. A Great Game but The 
 Graphics take away from it. If your a Great Graphics kind of guy Your missing out on something 
 fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evilpasty
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 30, 2006 3:50 pm PT
Review:  Medieval Total War is a truly magnificent game by itself and this expansion improves on the formula 
 by adding 3 new playable factions in the original campaign game (The Hungarians, The Sicilians, 
 and The Aragonese) , more units for the existing factions, a totally new campaign centered on dark 
 age Britain, and numerous gameplay fixes. The Viking campaign is alright. It has in my opinion 
 a slightly higher level of difficulty unless you play as the vikings as the forces available are 
 a little crude compared to the troop types in the original game. That however is an adequate reflection 
 on this particular time period as the Dark Age wasn't exactly a prosperous time. It was a time 
 of unchecked brutality and limitless violence so the Vikings fit right in with that as they were 
 some of the fiercest warriors ever to walk the earth. The Vikings have a couple notable advantages 
 over the Britainic factions. The first being their relatively secure homeland. Being the only faction 
 across the north sea is a prime advantage because due to the greatly inferior navies of the other 
 factions, it is impossible for them to land an army on your homelands. They can however bribe your 
 existing armies so always keep an eye out for enemy emmisaries and any low loyalty generals you 
 might have. As I just mentioned, the viking ships are far superior to those of the other factions, 
 they are more powerful in combat, can go into deep water sea regions, and are faster. The viking 
 troops are fairly high quality especially the Joms-Vikings and the Huscarles. Cavalry is the weakness 
 of the Vikings though as they only have 1 or 2 available types to train but they can hire mercenaries 
 so if you have the cash, you can have decent cavalry. Farmland is another problem for the vikings. 
 In order to gain a lot of money from agricultural production, it is necessary to conquer other, 
 richer provinces. They do get money from "raiding" however (conquering a foreign land, destroying 
 everything there and then abandoning it and attacking somewhere else, lather rinse, repeat) so 
 if you can be good at this it is one financial option you have. 
  
  I myself prefer the original campaign though as there is more variety as far as your options for 
 playing. This expansion adds one of my favorite factions to play, The Sicilians. The province of 
 Sicily itself is one of the greatest provinces in the game. It has only one land route to it (through 
 naples) therefore making it difficult to invade, has a tremendous potential for generation of wealth 
 through trade (It easily rivals Venice, Flanders, and Constantinople) and it sits at an important 
 position at the middle of the medditeranean sea. Sicily has no unique units, but they have access 
 to crusades and the normal catholic units. Aragon is a faction very similar to The Spanish. In 
 fact, their unit rosters are identical. They are disadvantaged mostly due to the fact that the 
 Spanish usually control more land on the Iberian peninsula than they do. In the late period they 
 control Sicily so it makes them hard to defeat entirely but enemy fleets can blockade you from 
 moving troops between Aragon and Sicily. The Hungarians are a decent faction with a position near 
 the black sea and the byzantine empire. Crusades will become a pet peeve as you as Hungary cannot 
 launch them but they commonly come through your land en route to the middle east stripping you 
 of troops. The Hungarians do have one large advantage over the other catholic factions and that 
 is horse archers. They have the regular type (that the polish can also train) but they also have 
 a type of horse archer as a unique unit that only they can train, they are called Szeleky and they 
 make good medium cavalry. Overall they have a good strategic position with many directions to take 
 for conquest but they are very near to some of the more powerful factions in the game such as The 
 Holy Roman Empire, The Byzantines, and later The Mongols (who emerge on the russian steppes in 
 the year 1231 with an intimidatingly large army.
  
  This expansion pack is a great add on to Medieval Total War and I would recommend that anyone pick 
 it up if they own the original game. If you have niether, get the Battle Chest Edition........ 
 What are you waiting for?!?! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stamoz
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 4, 2004 12:19 pm PT
Review:  Hi,
  the Viking Expansion was certainly welcome to my game collection. After all I am a Total War saga 
 fan. So, it was a good change from playing again and again the old campaigns in the original Medieval. 
 
  
  The actual campaign concept, invading UK was quite nice and based on historic facts once again. 
 The graphics seemed a little bit improved, at least the strategic map. 
  
  The expansion itself does not actually present anything really new compared to its predecessor 
 and I fount a bit small as well. For an experienced gamer, playing the campaign in a normal level, 
 it seems like a roller coaster and can be finished in less than a day. 
  
  Overall, I would suggest it to the hard core fans out there, but then I guess that if you enjoyed 
 the original then you are definetely a fan of this saga. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
