-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Medieval II: Total War
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/medieval2totalwar/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Epic, engrossing gameplay that lets you feel as though you're managing a medieval kingdom.
 Impressive strategic depth that lets you play popemaker and dabble with espionage.
 Beautiful graphics and amazing battles packed with cinematic moments.
 Subtle, effective sound and musical effects.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Beefy system requirements required to appreciate huge battles in all their glory.
 Multiplayer limited to battles.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 14, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.8
Critic Score: 8.7, 37 Review (s)
User Score: 9.1, 8,954 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sega
Developer: Creative Assembly
Genre: Historic Real-Time...
Date:     Nov 13, 2006 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
"Epic" doesn't quite begin to describe the scope and scale of the latest Total War game -- there's 
 a lot of strategic depth, with plenty of amazing combat to enjoy. 

  In our version of the Hundred Years' War, England was well on its way to spanking France in record 
 time when those dastardly Danes betrayed our alliance and ruined the fun. About 150 turns later, 
 we found ourselves bogged down in a three-front war against France, Denmark, and a late-to-the-party 
 Spain, though at least those tenacious Scots were finally put down after a lengthy, hard-fought 
 campaign in the north. Still, armies and navies were committed to battle as quickly as they were 
 raised; spies, assassins, priests, diplomats, and merchants scrambled around the map and did their 
 thing; sieges were laid and cities sacked; and battle followed bloody battle. And this is the "short" 
 campaign in Medieval 2: Total War. In a nutshell, that summarizes what is both awesome and somewhat 
 daunting about the latest game in the popular Total War strategy series. With its huge scale, deep 
 gameplay, and beautiful graphics, this is perhaps the most seductive game about the Middle Ages 
 yet, but it's admittedly quite a handful to take in.  

          Medieval 2 offers a deep strategic layer that lets you manage the military, economy, and 
 religion of a medieval kingdom.     

  Like in most strategy games, your goal in Medieval 2 is to try to conquer the known world. And 
 as a ruler of a medieval kingdom, this means you have to rely on knights, men-at-arms, archers, 
 catapults, cannons, and everything else you'd expect out of a movie such as  Braveheart  or  Kingdom 
 of Heaven . That's not all, though; you also have a small array of agents to call upon. Diplomats 
 can negotiate cease-fires (useful when you need some time to rebuild your strength) or alliances; 
 princesses can shore up the loyalty of a general or a neighboring faction through marriage; spies 
 can give you a peek at a fortified city's defenses; assassins can take out enemy agents. Then there 
 are priests, but we'll get to that a bit later.  

  Since it's a Total War game, Medieval 2 sports two layers. The "big picture" is covered in the 
 turn-based strategic layer, where you can examine a map of Europe and manage your empire. From 
 here, you have command of all your settlements, armies, navies, and agents. You can also construct 
 improvements to enhance the economy or allow you to build the latest in 15th-century military technology. 
 For example, building paved roadways not only increases trade in a province, but it also helps 
 speed along troop movement; improving farmland, furthermore, can help generate more food, and thus 
 more gold.  

  Medieval 2 introduces a few new twists to the established formula of the original game. Settlements 
 come in two flavors now, towns and castles. Basically, towns and cities generate a lot more cash, 
 but castles generate a wider variety of military units and are much harder to capture. It's an 
 interesting idea, and it's not exactly a detriment to the experience that the supercities of the 
 original game are no more, but this does add in a bit more micromanagement as you have to constantly 
 shuttle troops and agents between various settlements. For instance, you might want to send depleted 
 formations back to a castle where they can retrain and upgrade with the latest weapons and equipment. 

  All of this costs cash, of course, and it's safe to say that you'll be scrimping for every spare 
 gold piece possible, especially early on in the game. The economic game has been bulked up a bit 
 with the addition of merchants and resources. Basically, there are resources such as wheat and 
 wine that are located on the map, and by enlisting a merchant and placing one on a resource, you 
 can tap that resource for gold. However, one merchant can try and "buy out" another merchant sitting 
 on a resource, so you'll be managing merchants while you're also busy maneuvering all the other 
 pieces in the game.  

          Improvements in Medieval 2 include being able to tinker with papal elections.     

 
  Basically every aspect of medieval life is covered, not the least of which is religion. You must 
 construct churches or mosques to support the faith, and if you're a Catholic nation you can even 
 get involved in some popery by getting your man elected pope. This isn't just for fun, either; 
 having the pope on your side can be a very powerful thing, because he'll be much more willing to 
 overlook some of your aggressive transgressions against your Christian neighbors. On the other 
 hand, if you hack off the pope or one of your sworn enemies gets their man elected, the best you 
 can hope for is to get excommunicated, and the worst is that you find yourself the target of a 
 crusade, which means that it's open season on you. The papal election basically works like this: 
 You enlist priests to help maintain the faith in your provinces as well as take care of any heretics 
 or witches that crop up. The more effective a priest, the more likely he'll be promoted by the 
 church to become a bishop and then a cardinal. Every time a pope dies, the three most senior cardinals 
 are put up for election -- and here's where you can engage in diplomacy to buy votes for your man. 
 However, if you fail and you vote for the losing side, the incoming pope will have a grudge against 
 you.  

  All of this skullduggery and maneuvering is going on while you're busy with your main task, raising 
 armies and issuing them movement orders. The sheer variety of units that you can call upon is impressive, 
 and each faction has its own distinct units, such as the English longbowmen or the Holy Roman Empire's 
 gothic knights. As you'd expect, it's combined arms that wins the battles, so you can create armies 
 consisting of spearmen, men-at-arms, mounted knights, bowmen, siege weapons, and much more. And 
 after a battle, you'll be sending these units back to a castle or a town to replace losses, so 
 there's a lot of army management throughout the game. Put this all together and it sounds like 
 a lot of management overall, and it is, though aside from a few interface tweaks that we'd like 
 to see, this is an engrossing experience. There's so much depth in the strategic game that you 
 could automatically generate the results of battles and you'll still spend hours trying to outmaneuver 
 your opponents diplomatically, militarily, and religiously.     

   

  The game restricts you to only about five major players at first (England, France, the Holy Roman 
 Empire, and so on) , but after you win a campaign game you can unlock 12 other factions covering 
 Europe, North Africa, and the Near East. You can even send armies to the New World and battle the 
 Aztecs, though you'll likely find yourself with more than you can handle back in the Old World. 
 You can play as any faction, and there are two victory conditions that you can pursue. The "short" 
 campaign usually has you trying to conquer about 15 provinces on the map, while the long campaign 
 is up to three times longer. If you're in store for a quick strategy game you'd best look elsewhere, 
 because even the short campaign can easily occupy a week or so of casual play.  

          The real-time battles are a huge component of the game, and there's nothing quite as nail 
 biting as desperately trying to seize or defend a city.     

  Campaigns will last even longer if you choose to fight out each battle in real time, and while 
 you can usually skip over the minor skirmishes by letting the computer instantly generate the results, 
 you'll most likely want to dive into the larger scrums -- not only because you don't want to risk 
 losing a major battle with roughly even odds due to a flip of the computer's coin, but because 
 there are plenty of jaw-dropping moments in Medieval 2's combat. The "clone" armies of Rome: Total 
 War are no more, and the brightly colored formations look incredibly detailed and varied. Best 
 of all is that the combat animations are much more fleshed out. In a huge battle with thousands 
 of warriors slamming into one another, you can easily pick up the individual duels going on as 
 your men fight for their lives. You'll see guys getting knocked to the ground and struggling to 
 get back up on their feet when their opponent delivers a finishing blow, as well as other cinematic 
 moments. There are some weird anomalies, like when formations of men get jammed around a ladder, 
 but the awesome spectacle of it all is glorious.  

  Control over all these units is a bit nightmarish, but battles tend to have that effect on command 
 and control, as all plans fall apart once contact with the enemy is made. You're rewarded for using 
 tactics correctly, like not sending knights into the teeth of pikes and maneuvering them to hit 
 the enemy from the flank or the rear. Or you keep your archers safely protected to the rear, where 
 they can inflict the most damage on your enemy. All the decisions that you made during the strategic 
 campaign finally pay off in battle, like the composition of your armies, the upgrades that you've 
 equipped them with, and the generals that you chose to lead them in battle.  

  You'll need a fairly powerful system, though, in order to appreciate the large-scale battles in 
 all their grandeur without any frame rate hits. This is a demanding game, especially when there 
 are thousands of warriors fighting onscreen at once. Our midrange system struggled to keep up, 
 but on a high-end system the visuals were good enough that we could just sit back and soak it all 
 in. And the campaign map looks beautiful, aided by the sense that you're not so much looking at 
 a map but rather at a 3D representation of a living, breathing world. Tiny ships ply the trade 
 routes between cities, caravans haul goods on the road network, and much more. The visuals are 
 also aided by the addition of cool cinematic movies that show the results of various actions, like 
 assassination attempts gone comically awry, royal weddings, and papal elections. Medieval 2 also 
 has excellent audio. The music ranges from pleasing and subtle throughout the campaign map to bombastic 
 and pompous during battle, though the musical cue that we liked the most was the haunting defeat 
 chorus after losing a battle. There's plenty of voice work, too, as most emissaries will talk to 
 you in appropriately accented English depending on their nationality. The prebattle speeches given 
 by your generals are both rousing (in a Shakespearean way) and tactically sound, and you can glean 
 important hints about the upcoming fight.  

  Aside from the single-player campaign, there are a few extra modes in Medieval 2. A single-player 
 skirmish mode lets you create custom battles, so you can pit the Mongols against the Aztecs, for 
 instance, while there are seven historical battles that revisit great moments in world history, 
 such as Agincourt, where Henry V overcame all odds and crushed the French. The multiplayer portion 
 of the game is restricted to battles. Indeed, given the scope and scale of the single-player campaign, 
 we imagine that resolving a multiplayer game would be all but impossible save for the most dedicated 
 of players. Yet one day we'd like to see some kind of small-scale multiplayer campaign that lets 
 you use all those strategic assets against other players. Multiplayer itself features only two 
 modes, last man standing and scored resolution, but the basic idea remains the same in that you 
 want to kill as many of the other guys as possible. Battles support up to eight players, so you 
 can really get a big scrum going on, but the meat of the game is certainly in the single-player 
 campaign.  

          The sheer spectacle of the visuals is amazing, and you really get a cinematic sensation 
 of watching huge battles unfold before you.     

  Medieval 2 isn't a hard game in the technical sense, as the controls are fairly intuitive for the 
 most part. However, it is a game that requires you to pay a lot of attention, especially to what 
 the enemy is doing. The artificial intelligence will certainly keep you occupied on the medium 
 difficulty setting. The AI is smart enough to probe for weaknesses in your defenses and then attack 
 if you're not careful, so you need to keep your guard up at all times. Unfortunately, enemy turns 
 take a tediously long time to resolve on the default settings, as you have to sit and wait for 
 every unit in sight to make its move. You can turn enemy movements off and the turns will go by 
 much quicker, though you do lose the chance to see what the enemy is doing during its turns.  

 
  Still, Medieval 2 is an excellent strategy game -- there's just so much here to occupy you for hours. 
 At the same time, you'll need to be committed to get through the campaign, as it can take up a 
 lot of time. If you're a strategy fan looking for an epic experience, though, you'll be hard-pressed 
 to pass up Medieval 2's rich historical texture, popular setting, beautiful visuals, and deep gameplay. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (450 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: SerbWarrior
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 15, 2009 6:54 am PT
Review:  What do you wanna be when you grow up son?
  I want to be a medieval warrior!
  
 
  
  Imagine, a perfect morning, the sun is rising behind the hill, the birds are singing...
  And then...
  Imagine 4000 men taunting and shouting at the same time while charging...
  Imagine 
 those in the first lines, who are bravely runing towards the enemy... and then, imagine the impact...
 
  Thats also the greatest quality of Medieval II!
  
  When you are mercilessly slaughtering your enemys on the battlefield, you will feel the kind of 
 joy those lucky bastards that lived in the medieval era felt when they guted their enemy!
  
  In other words, ordering your army to kill some poor, dumb ****s who messed with you never felt 
 better... in a game...
  The gameplay of a Total War Medieval II is amazing!
  
  You can command many different types of units...
  Light infantry, heavy infantry, archers, light 
 cavalry, heavy cavalry, artilery etc.
  The beautiful thing about battles is watching as you outwit the AI and watching enemy troops fall, or 
 retreat...
  
  When you are on the world map you can:
  You can manage your empire spaning over 3 continents...
  (you will have to expand to get there, but 
 yeah)
  You can make military alliances, and use them to destroy your enemys, use many other forms of diplomacy, you 
 can spy, trade,
  assassinate, sabotage etc...
  If you choose to be a state with Catholicism as it main religion, your cardinal can be elected 
 pope...
  You will wage a religious war against heretics!
  You will make a legendary Crusade, to take over the Holy land!
  
  Besides the campaign Medieval 
 II also offers Historical battles, where you can take the armys of Richard Lion Heart and Cortez 
 or Henry V and many other historical characters!
  
  Another great mode is the custom battle....
  You can choose any nation that is in the campaign 
 (however the Mongols and Timids are not a playable faction in the campaign where as they are in 
 custom battle) , and pit them against another nation of your choice!
  
  All in all, you love strategy?
  Dont own this game...?
  Go and buy the strategic sensation, before 
 we all murder you!
  Because in all fairness this is one of the (if not) the best strategy game i ever played!
  And 
 because the Total War series is the best strategy series up to date!
  
  Graphics 10/10
  Sound 10/10
  Gameplay 10/10
  AI 9.5/10
  
  Overall rating:10/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gameking5000
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 10, 2009 8:56 pm PT
Review:  Medieval II Total War is the 4th game in the Total War series. I've reviewed this game after playing 
 Empire Total War, so I could make comparisons. But this game I must say is probably one the most 
 immersive games I've ever played. There are elements in this game that make it realistic and unique 
 from other RTS game in the Medieval period.
  
  The Grand Campaign is great. Unlike Empire it has unlockable factions, which makes you play the 
 Grand Campaign more than once. The "Mongol Invasion" and the "Timurid Invasion" is something that 
 isn't included in many other RTS games. It is reasonably historically accurate and is something 
 that will get boring.
  
  Although Empire Total War has more gameplay features and better graphics, it has numerous problems. 
 Medieval II on the other hand is not as buggy. Overall it's very hard to compare them has they're 
 both amazing games.
  
  In conclusion, this game is a must buy no matter who you are. The only problem is that it lacks 
 features and multiplayer is limited. Nevertheless this game is definetly worth the money and you'll 
 not be feeling bored in less than 24 hours 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wurd
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 2, 2009 9:10 pm PT
Review:  I have to say this was one of the most surprising games I have ever played. After playing Rome 
 Total War and finding it a little tedious I purchased this on a whim because it was cheap.
  Now after 200+ hours of game play I still can't put it on the back shelf. The Civ side of the game 
 although not as detailed as Civ4 is well balanced and even after loads of 'game' years you still 
 have much to do with regards to tech/building improvement. The benefit of having less of a huge 
 tech tree is that once you conquer tons of cities they are far easier to manage and you don't really 
 have to use the auto-manage feature so much ultimately making the game more immersive and strategic.
 
  The battle mode like all the total war series is pretty awesome. Once you learn to use troops 
 well you can really get a buzz from kicking butt when the odds are stacked against you. But mess 
 things up and the tables can be turned very easily.
  The diplomatic and religious elements to the game (priests and diplomats) keep you on your toes 
 the whole game. If you don't constantly work at both then you're going to go to war ... alot.
  
  There are many flaws to this game though the main one being how buggy the cavalry can be, annoyingly 
 stopping a charge just as they are about to hit the enemy unit because one horse got stuck on some 
 scenery, not responding to mouse clicks quickly enough and charging at nothing all the time. Computer 
 AI can be stupid sometimes especially when they just stand there sometimes and completely get wasted 
 by tons of artillery fire before being routed. I've even had to quit the game once because I took 
 out the siege/artillery equipment from both attacking armies and so they just stood off while I 
 waited in the fort. With both armies not being able to attack you'd expect the battle to end but 
 it didn't so I had to quit, an attack be me in the open would just have been suicide (there is 
 an option to have a game timer for siegesbut this just penalises you if you want to sit back and 
 bombard with artillery first) . Your artillery also tend to open fire when a whole regiment of friendly 
 cavalry are running past taking out the whole lot.
  Most bugs on the battlefield are annoying but don't really effect the gameplay too much though.
 
  On the Civ part the naval battles are dull and pretty pointless although the new empires has addressed 
 this and I look forward to playing it. Other issues are the merchants are stupid and die??? when 
 another merchant takes over their plot. The merchant part would be great if it had more depth, 
 say they setup lucrative import/export trade routes along roads and between cities/ports and made 
 the income from these more important to the gameplay rather than all from city taxes. As they are 
 merchants are useless and the money they generate hardly worth the hassle of you trying to keep 
 them alive.
  Graphically I think the battlefield animation could do with improvements but then this game is 
 quite dated I suppose and the difficulty level on normal mode is too easy and should be slightly 
 harder. It never lost a single battle on this level sometimes even when outnumbered 2:1.
  All in all though a great game and very enjoyable to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mukai15
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 27, 2009 5:34 am PT
Review:  Medieval II is a turn based strategy game when on the campaign map but transports you to the battlefield 
 it real time combat when you take on an opposing army.
  The Creative Assembly Devs got Rome total war and pump it full of steroids, they have improved 
 it in so many aspects from getting rid of the clone armies, now every soldier in a unit is a bit 
 different from the last, and the new graphics engine is absolutely stunning.
  The campaign is extremely long and enjoyable and if you are not careful you will be fighting a 
 multiple front war in no time. The pope plays an important role in the game if you are playing 
 as one of the Catholic factions, if you annoy the pope enough he will order a Crusade against you 
 which means every Catholic faction will turn against you. Another very important aspect of this 
 game is the economy. Your faction most have a strong trade to fuel your army and ambitions for 
 world domination, muhaha. But if you don't protect your trade lanes you will be defeated very very 
 soon
  If you decide to get this game i advise you to get the gold addition as it has the Kingdoms expansion 
 pack which adds more hours of fun on to the game.
  Good:
  Amazing Detail in the units
  Does not require an immense rig to run
  Amazing and Epic Battles
  Large campaign map
  Good 
 selection of Factions
  Excellent range of units
  Bad:
  For gold edition it requires 12 GB of hard drive space so it is a bit of a hog
  It can sap a 
 lot of your time which isn't normally bad but it is when you have exams, oops!:)
  Unfortunately no control over sea battles.
  
  In short, whether you are a fan of the series 
 or just like RTS you must get this game!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rogermao
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 19, 2009 12:38 pm PT
Review:  Total war is probably my most favorite strategy series at the moment. No series seems to come close 
 to the epic scale of the battles. The expansiveness of it's campaign map. Or the great feeling 
 you get when you realize you've just won the battle through a series of tactics and strategy, or 
 just dumb luck. 
  Medieval 2 total war doesn't dissapoint. Set in the medieval age of knights and castles, Medieval 
 2 total war lets players assume the position of one of the major nations of the period. Religion 
 plays an important part, as it affects the happiness of settlements, relations between factions, 
 and most importantly for catholic factions, relations to the pope.
  The pope is an unplayable faction with one city, Rome. Though obviously not a threat militarily, 
 the pope issues missions, calls for crusades, and runs the inquisition.
  Economy is a big part of the campaign. It fuels armies, serves as bargaining chips in diplomacy, 
 and well, money is always important. The campaign map is made up of cities and castles. 
  Castles serve as your main producers of advanced military troops. You can build buildings such 
 as stables and barracks to train better quality troops. Also, castles grow over time (this is increased 
 by farms and such) , once upgrade they provide better defence, and a larger variety of troops and 
 buildings.
  Cities are the main economic centers of your empire. They are hubs of trade, and a good place to 
 tax. Various buildings increase trade, thus increasing the amount of money flowing into your coffers. 
 Cities also train troops, but not as large a variety as castles.
  Economy and Religion are all important, but lets not forget the WAR. The battles are still as epic 
 as it's predecessors. The scale allows for thousands of troops to be on the field at once. Allowing 
 a truly large scale epic feel. Sea battles are unfortunately only auto-resolved.
  War can cause bad feelings between nations. Such as attacking someone's ally. Catholic nations 
 also have a larger burden. The pope will not be happy with you for attacking other catholic nations, 
 though attacking islamic, pagan, and heretical nations gains favor. If you do not heed the word 
 of the pope, it will affect your diplomacy and the happiness of your nation.
  So overall:
  THE GOOD
  Epic battles
  Scale is immense
  Good Campaign map
  Good number and range of units
 
  Ok number of nations
  Don't need a monster of a computer
  THE BAD
  Hard Drive Hog
  Auto Sea Battles
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nizze87
Rating: 4.5
Date: Mar 6, 2009 3:22 am PT
Review:  It was fun the first hour or so, then it got boring, stupid and annoying. The AI is a backstabbing 
 schizophrenic disaster, programmed to attack, attack attack! On the same turn, it will try to improve 
 the relations between your countries, and attack you! Fortunately it's quite easy to handle, since 
 it will often invade your cities with an inferior force, and is quite easy to slaughter on the 
 battle map.
  
  But this is not the worst offense. I must say I am very irritated about how Creative Assembly has 
 treated history. In fact I would go so far to state that Medieval 2 is not primarily a historical 
 game, but a fantasy game. 
  
  The borders make absolutely no sense, and many countries that did not even exist at the start date 
 are playable! While many important countries of the time period, have so very conveniently become 
 part of the 'rebel faction'. Therefore I think MTW2 is just another piece of generic fantasy. 
 
  
  Unless modded of course. Because the game is not without merits, and does have a high potential 
 in the hands of some one more sensitive than the developer. 
  
  So what games would I recommend in its stead? 
  
  Shogun Total War is a very good game, with 
 a much more refined historical flavour, and so is the newly released Empire Total War.
  
  I would also recommend Europa Universalis 3, which has a huge historical depth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: commander_zero
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 17, 2009 11:18 pm PT
Review:  this game M2 to be a great game at first when i played i didnt have a large idea on how to do anything 
 on the outside map or inside the battles which made me fail at first but after a bit of trial and 
 error i learned to in the main campaign that is quality over quantity and how you treat other faction 
 and how you treat other has an impact on how other factions look at you and in battle, you have 
 to use every unit to their full extent like making sure if an archer unit has the capibility to 
 go into close combat or not as well if your not braced or facing away a charge from cavalry will 
 be more devestating depending if their light or heavy, and i found the looks on the game were great 
 better than what ive seen on most RTS games
  
  
  but also the other thing that made me like this game is that they got the historical accuracy right 
 as like in spain the reconquesta was happening between the Spanish and the Moorish forces mongol 
 invasion of europe and such other things
  
  dont forget that the meny types if specilized soldiers that vary from faction to faction like the 
 Holy Roman Empire have imperial, gothic, and ther types of heavily armoured knight at their disposile 
 while the english and longbowmen and other heavy infantry, scottish have the best pikemen you can 
 get as well their hilander units. or even the russians Tsar Guards. dont forget the Timrids Elephant 
 units, with egyptian mumluks
  
  
  
  for all you people who play it for a couple of hours and say it sucks because you suck at it, don't 
 reveiw it because that's just unfair, and if your think it's to easy and the AI is stupid play 
 on a harder difficulty and try playing someone online if you think your to good for that, and for 
 though fans of Rome TW let me tell you if you find the mechs of M2 TW diffrent and you dont know 
 why then your an idiot but i doubt theres to meny of them.
  
  over all this is a great solid RTS for those who admire on field stratagy or over veiw construction 
 of an empire, give it a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BadtzBoyz
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 20, 2009 3:58 am PT
Review:  Medieval II: Total War is great strategy game. Graphics are excellent and the sheer scope and scale 
 of battle is breath taking. There is a lot of fun to be had with this stategy game. This game will 
 lave you in awe struck. I also like being able to fast-forward some areas of the combat as watching 
 your peasants walk half a battlefield could become very tedious without it. 
  In the campaign mode, it is really fun to start out with a little civilization and through tasks 
 given from different sources you may appease the kingdom's needs. You can use a wide variety of 
 weaponry in your  cavalry, light  
 etc. 
  The gameplay to that effect is quite nice, but the point of the game is to win through diplomacy 
 and conquest, becoming the greatest power and ruler of Europe by conquering specific kingdoms and 
 taking certain provinces.
  Im definitely going to be playing these games now for most of the time because they just keep you 
 entertained and hooked constantly. Cool...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Themaazandar
Rating: 1.5
Date: Feb 9, 2009 11:11 pm PT
Review:  Who shall take Sleeping Beauty to be his wife? She is pretty, but doesn't do much of anything whether 
 it be work, play, talk, eat, etc etc. And yet, in a classic example of using reputation to earn 
 a quick buck, CA released Sleeping Beauty - wait, er, sorry, CA released Medieval 2: Total War, 
 a stereotypically dumb blonde. CA's strategy was simple: beef up the graphics, dumb down the gameplay 
 and sell it to fans of the original Medieval (which by the way was a truly well made game) .
  
  First lets talk of the Beauty's face. Let me say that it is indeed remarkably wonderfully beautiful. 
 So that begs the question of why CA hid this face behind a burqa (a face-covering dress for those 
 from Naboo) . I mean, can you honestly find any other words to describe the horrible camera angles 
 you have? In Rome, you could atleast zoom all the way down and see the feet of your troops. In 
 M2TW, the most you'll get is the waist. What a waste!
  
  Second, lets NOT talk about the gameplay. It does NOT have the ability to assassinate your own 
 generals. It does NOT have decent diplomatic options. It does NOT EVEN have a good variety of unique 
 faction units. Hell, the Islamic factions aren't even fully finished - they don't even get battle-speeches! 
 And the units are so generic - really, what's the idea giving every single faction the spearmen? 
 
  
  Third, the music and sound. Suffice to say they were so bad that I muted the sound each time I 
 played. 
  
  The one and only really redeeming quality about this game is the gamers' ability to mod it. I've 
 played a very good total conversion mod called Broken Crescent and the modders have improved on 
 almost everything - from unit looks to battles. They've also added their own soundtrack which is 
 significantly better than the original's. By all rights, I should be reviewing Broken Crescent 
 rather than the rubbish offered by CA and I can tell you if I had, the score would be considerably 
 better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: otownshend
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 3, 2009 1:26 am PT
Review:  This game I have found to be great, you can start the game in the morning and before you know it 
 is 9 at night.
  
  The graphics of the game are superb highly detailed. Each unit has someone looking different. Also 
 the campain map is nicely done.
  The sounds of the game is ok. But I love the battle noise, steel on steel. 
  Men dying and the 
 thunder of hoves of the horses as they charge.
  
  When I first played the game I was overwhelmed by the graphics and extra units. But as I got into 
 it I enjoyed every moment from getting England conquring the main bulk of Europe and crusading.
 
  The battle map I have found to be unbeliveable from the battle movements the personal battles 
 between two men, the blood staning the ground. 
  I have found that the defending the walls to be alot of fun getting 6 units of archers defending 
 and my mele troops behind the gates of where the siege towers or ladders go. 
  
  But I do find that as the game goes along it takes longer and longer for the computer to takes 
 it turn. I have turn offSee computer movement" but I perfer to see what it is doing.
  
  But I have recommended this game to my friends and family. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Goblex
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 24, 2009 1:13 pm PT
Review:  This game really is unique.
  You may not see the real thing on the screenshots, nor the videos, but when you play it yourself, you 
 get to feel what a general feels when so much is on stake.
  Everyone who likes bloody stategies, should try this out.
  It beats the crap out of other strategy 
 games. In the campaign mode, it is really fun to start out with a little civilization and through 
 tasks given from different sources you may appease the kingdom's needs. You may also go by your 
 willing. make alliance, use them to take over lands and if you really want to be a conqeror, you'l 
 have to backstab them, because there probably is no other way. The battles are really intense, units 
 fight right (mostly:) . You can use a wide variety of weaponry in your  
 cavalry, light  etc all sorts of *disposal* that you could possibly 
 need. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: samstherealhero
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 21, 2009 7:04 pm PT
Review:  medieval total war is a first class game and a worthy continuation to the total war series the 
 graffix are outstanding (for a real time strategy game) and the game play never gets boring i find 
 the post battle sheeches amusing dont get me wrong there realistic but the men are so gullible 
 and cheer so much now its about time to quite rambling if you like age of empires heritage of kings 
 star was empire at war halo wars etc you will likely love this its a fresh but solid game full 
 of weeks of fun if you like taking over eurupe or like using knights to run down peasants etc there 
 are three basic modes that speak for them selfs quick battle skirmish and imperial campane which 
 is a stained cosept because you cant get war elephants which would honestly be awsome
  also the cheats are a paine to use but on the upside your family tree is almost real as they attribbutes 
 like honest fool arrogant noble ignorrint etc and can be dreaded or loved can be good govners or 
 terrible govners and taking over cites and winning battles is realistic as you choose what to do 
 with the captives (or poplace) in short a worthy game that should be in every gamers library and 
 even shorter its the cats pjs lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Andrewxxxx
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 2, 2009 8:44 am PT
Review:  Medieval 2: Total War is an excellent game. There are a few unrealistic things, such as cavalry 
 charges being somewhat weaker than they should be, but basically, the game is one of the few strategies 
 (especially RTS) that can be called 'realistic'.
  
  Aside from the excellent, large scale battles (which can be randomized, custom, or historical) , 
 there is a Campaign map, which blends together turn-based-strategy with real-time-strategy. Personally, 
 I think the campaign map -makes- the game what it is.
  
  Whether you're doing custom battles, or the campaign, you're going to have to choose what you want 
 in your army. Basically, there's infantry, cavalry, missile infantry, missile cavalry, and siege 
 weapons. There are many different types of these units, some better than others (ie, town militia 
 are no match for armoured swordsmen, although both are considered infantry) . You also get to choose, 
 while deploying your troops, which formations to use them in, or to create your own formation.
 
  
  The actual battle controls are easy to use, though it may take some time to perfect your usage 
 of them. 
  
  The best thing about this game, for me, is that you can employ -actual- strategy, and have it work. 
 Sun Tzu would be proud of this game.
  
  If you're looking for a new game to play, and you enjoy strategy, you'd be advised to pick this 
 game up - it doesn't cost much, anymore, either. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -bluemonkey-
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 28, 2008 2:13 pm PT
Review:  I have to admit that this game is a great addition to your video game collection, whether you like 
 RTS games or not. Even on the lowest graphic settings, the world is still appealing to the eye 
 and battle effects themselves really immerse you in the combat. Besides that, it is just plain 
 satisfying to watch you army run down the enemy, crushing them with heavy infantry, catapults, 
 cavalry, and anything else you can muster.
  
  It doesn't differ much from the basic system of the series, but they did improve upon it. They 
 fixed some of the strange things your troops can do, but they couldn't stop all of it. It can be 
 frustrating when archers or javelinmen skirmish, but don't run from charging infantry quickly enough.
 
  
  The campaign is even more immersing than the rest of the series, and every faction changes how 
 you see the campaign map. The different religions really make an interesting twist to the game, 
 though excommunication isn't as bad as you might suspect.
  
  Overall, this game gives you a feeling of total control that cannot be matched by any other RTS 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _FORCE_96
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 22, 2008 2:24 pm PT
Review:  Medieval 2: Total War is another strategy game in the long and illustrious line of total war games. 
 It is great to see that the series has lost none of it's brilliance. Graphics are excellent and 
 the sheer scope and scale of battle is breath taking. From drawing out battle lines on vast fields, 
 or rushing your men through a four metre wide hole in a fortress wall, there is a lot of fun to 
 be had with this stategy game.
  
  The actual combat is obviously the main draw of the TW series. You set out your deployment before 
 you commence the battle to how you like and then you are ready to let the carnage begin. From hurling 
 flaming rocks and arrows at your opponent to executing precise and brutal cavalry flanking charges, 
 this game will lave you in awe struck. I also like being able to fast-forward some areas of the 
 combat as watching your peasants walk half a battlefield could become very tedious without it. 
 
  
  The campaign is another massive draw for fans of the game and newcomers. You pick one of five empires: 
 England, France, The Holy Roman Empire, Spain and Venice. You then lead this empire, through all 
 areas and over 250 turns, to conquer your opponents and capture a specific objective. Its not just 
 all about bulldozing your army through oncomers, you can also use spying, diplomacy, trade and 
 religion to get your way. Sometimes, just marrying a pincess into the royal family of your rival 
 can be stronger than assaulting them with countless armies. (Although I think you know which option 
 is probably more fun) .
  
  Slight flaws are an annoying camera from time to time and the odd glitch. I have to say that I 
 amnot crazy about the Total War series but this game has got me on the way to becoming a true fran. 
 I highly reccommend this game for all PC strategists out there. Lets hope that Empire: Total War 
 can further the celebrity status of this series.
  
  ELEPHANTS WITH CANNONS!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dalhaug
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 19, 2008 9:25 pm PT
Review:  This game, counting from the first one, almost ten years ago. Has been my favorite among all. RTS 
 doesnt get as good as this, anywhere! But it is still hard to critise your "own" child, bet here 
 it goes: The AI is still way to weak! Even from the earliest battles, i can kick ass with some 
 poor scout riders flanking the opposition and my foe wont respond to any threats on the flanks, 
 exept from withdrawing or just standing in the background as some blindfolded morons or something.. 
 Please! If there is gonna be a follow up on this one, dont make it so damn simple! It ruins any 
 attempt to use any creativity that the gamer might show. Otherwise, thanks a lot for a athmosperic 
 game this is (still) unique in the business. There is many competitiors showing talent, but i hope 
 and believe Creative Assembly and SEGA still has the will and knowledge to rest on their throne 
 for a few more years.
  Merry christmas everybody! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eclarkdog
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 12, 2008 1:08 am PT
Review:  MTW II is the first Total War game that I've played in the series. I've logged quite of few hours 
 now playing vanilla, Kingdoms, and a few mods like Stainless Steel, so I figured it's time to add 
 my thoughts.
  
  MTWII is an historical strategy game focused in the medieval era (roughly the 12th to 16th century) . 
 The unique aspect of this game is that it includes both turned-based and real-time strategy - although 
 it's classified as RTS. I'm a huge TBS fan in games like CIVIV and Silent Storm, so this appealed 
 to me greatly and the TBS is an very integral part of the game. I generally like a slower pace 
 and less clicking than you find in RTS games, but I do enjoy some RTS games like Company of Heroes. 
 MTWII gives the player the best of both worlds. The turned-based gameplay is incorporated in the 
 top-down campaign map in which you see factions borders, cities, roads, seas and units. On this 
 map you can perform many strategic and tactical actions per turn such as diplomacy, creating units/buildings 
 in cities and castles, moving units an allotted distance, attack the enemy, and much more. Once 
 you engage units in battle or attack/defend a city you will drill down into RTS gameplay - a fully-rendered 
 3D battle setting mirroring the climate/region or city type that you were located on in the campaign 
 map. This is nicely done by the developers. If you are not into the click fest of RTS you can choose 
 to auto-resolve the battle on the map in seconds. Often you may have a better outcome just fighting 
 the battle though, especially once you get more experience. I have to admit that I was a little 
 overwhelmed at first with these battle but once I understood the strengths and weakness of certain 
 unit types and other strategies it became much easier. For instance, the spearman unit will own 
 any calvary unit. Regardless, I think this game can appeal to a broader group of strategy gamers.
 
  
  Graphically, MTWII is very nicely done. There's great attention to detail on both the campaign 
 map and in the 3D RTS mode. Units are beautifully rendered and have unique armor and such based 
 on what faction you are playing. Furthermore, although each faction has similarities in unit types 
 (for instance, you usually have some type of spearmen, infantry, archer and cavalry) the factions 
 have their own unique units. Factions also favor certain unit types like cavalry or crossbowman 
 (great unit) , and this may even change based on the era (early, middle or late) you are in, which 
 offers a different playing experience each time you play and different faction. For example, as 
 the French you will put a greater focus on cavalry, while as England you have wicked missile units 
 and strong infantry units. This really makes the gamer think and change his strategy as he/she 
 plays a different faction.
  
  There's a lot of strategic depth and detail to MWII and I could go on for some time discussing 
 it. In short, this game is not very story driven, unless you play certain mods, except to follow 
 certain historical events and timeline. You are given certain victory conditions such as eliminating 
 certain factions or holding certain important cities that follow general historical themes (like 
 England wiping out Scotland or France) by a given amount of turns. However, you certainly have 
 the freedom to play this game how you see fit, like taking over the entire world, focusing on a 
 more peaceful diplomatic approach (not easy) , or just setting a more modest goal of expanding and 
 securing your borders slowly and growing your economy. Some factions do not really start in a very 
 historically accurate manner, but one can't fault the developers as they were trying to create 
 a certain level a balance. There are certainly factions that are more powerful in the beginning 
 and those at a significant disadvantage and it's certainly a blast to play a weaker faction like 
 a Sicily or Portugal and grow them into a huge empire.
  
  On the topics of mods, there is a large modding community for MTWII and some very nice modpacks 
 that significantly expand and enhance gameplay and other aspects. The vanilla game is certainly 
 very good, but mods like the highly recommend "Stainless Steel" offer a generous improvement and 
 challenge to the delivered game as well as incorporating features from both the vanilla game and 
 Kingdoms expansion. MTWII is truly a game that you can play for very long time and come back to 
 from time to time. With that said, it certain is a great gaming value. A single campaign, depending 
 on how you play, takes me days to weeks to complete.
  
  I will note a few minor flaws in the game. I really enjoy the early part of the game as you try 
 to build a supporting economy, establish alliances and trade rights, take over rebel settlements 
 to expand borders and attacking a neighboring enemy or two. As I progress through the game and 
 significantly expand my borders as well as map of the world, I tend to lose focus on the game. 
 Turns take much longer at this point and you have more things to micromanage. I think the game 
 needs more events and goals in the later part of the game to keep it a bit more interesting. On 
 another note, the diplomacy feature is nice and necessary to a degree, but not fully realized or 
 developed for this game. I find the auto-manage feature really not all the effective and avoid 
 it altogether, but if there were better controls it would certainly be a benefit, especially in 
 the later game when you have a huge empire.
  
  In closing. MTWII is without question a fabulous strategy game and a true classic that will stand 
 the test of time. I think the game has reached a point graphically, given today's standards, that 
 I don't see how someone would not want to come back to it years from now. If you are new two strategy 
 gaming, especially RTS gaming, I think this is a very good game to break into. It's certainly has 
 it's challenges at first but the TBS aspect allows one to gradually take it all in - this was the 
 case with me. Buy the game and enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danny_window
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 2, 2008 3:30 am PT
Review:  I've only had the game for a couple of weeks and it's already the best game I've ever played on 
 pc and one of the best all-time. what makes it so good are the battles and also the world map where 
 you travel to and from places and have to build things like roads or certain buildings like barracks 
 to make certain soldiers to keep up to shape and markets or ports to get trade which keeps your 
 money up. And the end turn system really impresses me because it gives you time to think and do 
 all you want before moving on. Which I don't know if it's been in all of their other total wars 
 as this is the 1st I've played. And because of all this I am definitely getting all the total wars 
 to come. im definitely going to be playing these games now for most of the time because they just 
 keep you entertained and hooked constantly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FlaviusJulius17
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 27, 2008 5:08 am PT
Review:  Medieval II Total War is very much just like continuing off Barbarian Invasion, with new countries, 
 a slightly different battle system, and your country going off into the new world. while there 
 have been multiple complaints of graphics bugs having to be fixed with patches, i never had a single 
 problem. the detail was amazing! while it lagged slighty in the furthest zoom out, it glided into 
 a smoothly played battle. the campaign game has new quirks, like the fact of the Crusades, Heresy, 
 The Papal States, and new Agents. if you have the time to play this, it will be worth it. i think 
 this is The Creative Assembly's best work yet, and i'm looking forward to Empire Total War. but 
 there was just one problem i had with the campaign game. it took me, as the French Empire, 40 freakin' 
 years to reach the new world with a good force. the first fleet sank and i lost half my agents 
 due to a storm, the second ship left without any men on it... i realized that when it was over 
 halfway there, the third ship got there just fine WITH the agents on board. i was so rich in florins 
 i just bought a settlement, the turned it into a citadel and began making a sieging force. overall, 
 i would have given it a ten, but i remembered that last part. Creative Assembly, job well done. 
 :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KulinaBan
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 24, 2008 11:23 am PT
Review:  Kao dijete siromanog korzikog plemia kolovao se na francuskoj vojnoj akademiji i 
 francusku revoluciju doekao s inom topnikog kapetana. U francuskim je revolucionarnim 
 ratovima brzo napredovao do ina generala i godine 1796. dobio zapovjednitvo nad francuskim 
 snagama koje su jug zemlje trebale braniti od Austrijanaca iz Italije. Zahvaljujui svom britkom 
 umu u nizu je bitaka i vjetih manevara porazio nadmone austrijske trupe, osvojio sjevernu 
 Italiju i prisilio Austriju na sklapanje mira u Campo Formiu.
  Njegovi vojni uspjesi i naglo steena popularnost uinili su ga favoritom politiara 
 i narodnih masa koji su eljeli stabilnost nakon godina revolucionarne anarhije i nasilja. Godinu 
 dana nakon pohoda u Egipat, Napolon je godine 1799. izveo dravni udar poslije kojega se proglasio 
 prvim konzulom i zaveo osobnu diktaturu. Godine 1804. proglasio se francuskim carem.
  Napolonova vladavina bila je obiljeena sukobom Francuske s Ujedinjenim Kraljevstvom, koji je 
 trajao od godine 1793. do mira u Amiensu 1802. Godinu dana kasnije sukob je ponovno eskalirao i 
 Napolon se, nakon poraza u pomorskoj bitki kod Trafalgara i kraha planova za invaziju Britanskih 
 ostrva, morao obraunati s britanskim kontinentalnim saveznicima. Godine 1805. u bitki kod 
 Austerlitza porazio je i pokorio Austriju, godine 1806. nakon bitke kod Jene isto je uinio 
 s Pruskom te formalno okonao Sveto Rimsko Carstvo, da bi nakon pobjede nad Rusima kod Friedlanda 
 1807. godine sklopio savez s ruskim carom Aleksandrom i ustanovio tzv. Kontinentalni sistem, iji 
 je cilj bio ekonomskim embargom poraziti Britaniju.
  U tom trenutku Napolon je bio na vrhuncu moi, ali je samo godinu dana kasnije sebi dopustio 
 da bude umijean u dinastijski sukob u saveznikoj paniji. Francuska vojna intervencija i 
 postavljanje Napolonova brata za kralja dovela je do svenarodnog otpora, pojave panije gerile 
 i prvih ozbiljnih francuskih poraza. Godine 1809. ohrabrena je Austrija Francuskoj objavila rat 
 to je dovelo do kratkog, ali vrlo krvavog pohoda tokom kojeg je u bitki kod Asperna Napolon po 
 prvi put potuen na bojnom polju. Iako je Napolon taj rat na kraju dobio, nastojao se od 
 slinih problema u budunosti osigurati enidbom s austrijskom princezom Marijom Lujzom 
 koja mu je rodila sina, budueg Napoleona II.
  U meuvremenu je Rusija sve tee trpjela ekonomske posljedice Kontinentalnog sustava pa ju 
 je godine 1812. Napolon napao s najveom vojnom silom dotada skupljenom. Pohod se krajem 
 godine pretvorio u katastrofu tokom koje je izgubljen vei dio Napolonove Velike Armije. 
 U proljee 1813. Napolon se suoio sa svenarodnim ustankom u Njemakoj i dotadanjim 
 saveznicima koji su se okrenuli protiv njega. U odlunoj bitki kod Leipziga Napolon je poraen 
 i prisiljen na povlaenje u Francuskoj gdje je morao abdicirati i otii u izgnanstvo 
 na ostrvo Elbu gdje je postavljen za formalnog vladara.
  Novi reim kralja Luja XVIII pokazao se tako nepopularnim da je Napolon nakon samo godinu dana 
 sa aicom pristaa uspio preuzeti vlast i zapoeti vladavinu poznatu kao Sto dana. To 
 je razdoblje zavrilo u lipnju 1815. godine nakon poraza u bitki kod Waterlooa. Napolon je zarobljen 
 od Britanaca i zatoen na ostrvu Sveta Helena gdje je umro est godina kasnije.
  Godine 1840. njegovi su posmrtni ostaci vraeni u Francusku gdje je pokopan u parikom Domu 
 invalida. Njegov se pogreb smatra jednim od najveih i najvelianstvenijih u historiji.
 
  Zbog svoje kratke ali burne vladavine Napolon je i danas predmetom velikih kontroverzi. Jedni 
 ga smatraju beskrupuloznim tiraninom i militaristom ija je vanjska politika izazvala krvoprolie 
 i pustoenje koje se u Evropi nije ponovilo sve do doba Adolfa Hitlera. S druge se strane navode 
 njegova manje spektakularna, ali za razvoj evropske ekonomije i kulture daleko vanija dostignua 
 na polju unutranje politike, odnosno cijeli niz liberalnih reformi kojima je staro feudalno ureenje 
 postupno zamjenjivano modernim kapitalizmom olienim u Napolonovu zakoniku poznatom kao Code 
 civile
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: yiplong
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 18, 2008 3:20 pm PT
Review:  I had been playing RTW; just recently got my copy of M2-TW and was immediately disappointed with 
 the game. It didn't seem to live up to the expectation I had based on good experience with prior 
 total war games.
  
  Medieval 2 is basically RTW with new graphics and set in the middle age instead of the ancient 
 age. Of all TW games since Shogun, this one probably contains the least amount of innovation. Of 
 the few new ideas introduced, many were uninteresting or completely stupid. One such idea is the 
 "merchant". They cluster up the map and involve intensive micromanagement to work right, and frankly 
 I don't see the point of micromanaging them for a few hundred income points per turn, especially 
 when so many other aspect of the game also requires micromanagement. Other stupid features include 
 the video that plays each time your agent attempts a mission. They don't seem to serve any purpose 
 other than wasting hard drive space. Of course I promptly disabled them after a few minutes.
  
  It is quite sad to see the developers wasting their talent creating these useless videos at 
 the expense of other more important game features. Tphere are some obvious bugs that I noticed 
 the first time I layed the game, namely cavalry charge and pathfinding during seige. I clicked 
 my men to attack the 2nd walk, and they all lined up and run in the opposite direction. Took me 
 about 10 minutes to finally get them into the enemy castle. In this day and age, the motto of all 
 game publishing companies really is "shove it out the door broken and patch it later". It seems 
 that Medieval 2 is not an exception to the rule. The game is exceptional in one respect: the two 
 gigantic patches, both exceeding 500MB. I just don't understand how they can have so many things 
 to fix, the game must be crawling with bugs. It only crashed my operating system 3 times yesterday, 
 wow!
  
  The above being said, this game is not complete crap and if you have never played R-TW or highly 
 enjoy the older game, you will probably like this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abu_eljod
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 27, 2008 1:17 pm PT
Review:  First of all, this is my first review in GS, i am an experienced gamer and been playing games for 
 over 14 years, even though am very young, and i have played many many Role Playing, turn-based strategy, real 
 time strategy games but i have never seen a well developed, addicting video game like this one.
 
  
  From the beginning, it made a very good impression on the graphics side, you control MASSIVE armies 
 throughout the game with very good detail and frame-rate and you can see clearly there's been some 
 efforts put in the making this game, and the world map is highly detailed with very smooth frame-rate 
 in loading and in battles. on the sound, it always make the mode with its amazing soundtrack and 
 the realistic voices armies make during battle and during different events in the game. now about 
 game-play, it is highly addictive with the amount of realism in this game, it grants you the feeling 
 that you are really living the medieval age with all the historical events and inventions that 
 been made in the period of time you are playing, like for example, on a certain year (sorry for not 
 remembering but it in the 11-th century) the pope calls for a crusade to take Jerusalem and you 
 have the choice (if you play a catholic country) to participate or not but that will affect your 
 relationship with pope either positively or negatively depending on your choice, and also you have 
 your economy and development in your cities and castles that you need to take off and observe so 
 you don't get in trouble financially, there's a lot of other stuff about the game i can tell you 
 about but it would take another review so see the game for yourself.
  
  so finally, i recommend this game to anyone who love strategy games, some people would say its too 
 complicated, but i say there's a good tutorial system in the game and in-game help throughout game-play 
 that will definitely make the game easier, and its a major time waster, i learned that painfully 
 through my exams, and being this my first review, i hope it helped you decide whether or not you 
 want to play this game. anyway, enjoy one of the best strategy game ever created. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BattlePilgrim
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 25, 2008 7:29 am PT
Review:  The game is very good and it take time to strike and defend.
  
  vldigt bra spel och vrt att spela det:) hoppas verkligen det blir ett till spel snart (av total 
 war)
  Man fr sitta o spela vldigt lnge och man trttnar inte p det som man gjorde med 1: an, fr dr 
 hade man vldigt lite pengar och fick spara vldigt lnge innan man kunde gra ngot, men i det 
 hr spelet s kan man bygga p och man fixar pengar rtt s ltt om man tnker till lite.
  
  Bra grafik med men det finns lite buggar hr o dr och datorn r ju absolut inte den smartaste 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: X_ROMAN_VI_X
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 18, 2008 8:25 pm PT
Review:  First and foremost, to any and all that think I'm one of those 'haters' I really am not. I enjoyed 
 this game, but I want to write a fair review that includes it's faults.
  
  Ok, first and foremost, the basics of the game are as follows: Map of Europe, Northern Africa, 
 and Middle East there. You are (insert location) and everyone is everywhere else. The point of 
 the game is to win through diplomacy and conquest, becoming the greatest power and ruler of Europe 
 by conquering specific kingdoms and taking certain provinces. The gameplay to that effect is quite 
 nice, while simple. You have units, cities, and provinces. Take the city in the province and the 
 province is yours. It works well, it's pretty much the same basic design as Rome: Total War except 
 SPQR is replaced by the Pope.
  
  The down and dirty battles are awesome, and require a great deal of strategy to succeed. As your 
 AI counterparts are quite intelligent and will use every feature of their units to their advantage. 
 The battles can range from challenging (Citadel sieges, for example) to downright funny (100 Peasants 
 vs. 600 heavy infantry) . The siege weapons (including canons) are all very useful tools, as well 
 they are realistic (canon needs to be reloaded) .
  
  There are only a couple problems, which can be overlooked, or swiftly fixed by editing a game file. 
 See, Medieval: 2 limits the amounts of turns you can play for, which really is annoying. Personally, 
 I don't always do my objective. I like to run around and conquer every square inch of the map, 
 which is improbable due to the limit of around 350 (rough estimate, I don't remember the actual 
 amount of turns since I changed it) . While you can simply edit that option in the campaign folder, 
 it would have been nice for the developers to have let you play for an unlimited amount of time.
 
  The other problem is with the merchants. It's not that they are bad, but they can get destroyed 
 a lot. And it doesn't seem to be based on the experience of them (I have been able to take down 
 top-level merchants with raw ones, and vice versa) . They just feel unpolished.
  
  But, if you can overlook these issues, then Medieval 2: Total War is definately a great way to 
 spend your time for only around $25.
  
  Gameplay: 9/10: Controls are all easy to understand.
  
  Sound: 10/10: It isn't rare for games 
 to have good sounds and music, so the standards for game music have been steadily rising. Medieval 
 2 surpasses these standards. Greatly.
  
  Graphics: 8/10: The independent character models on the battlefield are the only things that bring 
 it down. Sometimes they just look like little colored squares, fighting other colored squares. 
 And quite a number of them look exactly the same.
  
  Replay Value: 10/10: There is no reason not to play this game over and over. Besides providing 
 a nonlinear path to victory, the challenges that you face on the harder difficulties are every 
 fun. Plus, there are massive amounts of empires to play as. From England to Egypt, to Sicily to 
 the Byzantines. 
  
  Multiplayer: 4/10: While multiplayer should never break a game that has good AI's, it would be 
 fun to play a campaign of Med: 2 with a friend. But it is limited to battles.
  
  Final: 7.5/10
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yomama51
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 16, 2008 8:52 pm PT
Review:  OK heres waat i think. this game. is totaly... EPIC. best series ever. no other series can simply 
 match the scale of the armies and the accuracy of the campaign, and yet still be so fun. Who doesnt 
 love taking over the world, and fighting epic battles against the Mongol horde to defend your cities 
 at all costs. Anyone who doesnt like it A- is not a fan of strategy gaming/the series. or B is 
 just saying it to piss us off , or C, you just have no taste AT ALL. If you think its boring, a 
 little advice. you dont have to manage anything at all, you can tell the comp to manage your citeies 
 for you. all you have to do then is manage your agents and do the battles. Also, you dont have 
 to follow the movement. Change it in options. Oh also.. I was always looking for a series like this 
 , when someone told me about RTW , and i read up on it.. I praised the Lord.. it is everything 
 i ever wanted in a game. I CANT WAIT FOR Empire: Total war WOOTTTT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matt120282
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 8, 2008 12:36 am PT
Review:  This is overall the best game I have ever owned. That's not to say it has not got its problems, 
 but the scope, depth, satisfaction, and appeal of the game is enough to be able to forgive these 
 flaws (whilst hoping that CA fix them next time round) .
  
  I love the medieval setting, and this game captures it perfectly, from the music and sound effects 
 to the armour and heraldry of the armies.
  
  The graphics are highly improved over Rome, with soldiers not looking like a clone army so much 
 this time round. Performance is good as well despite all the detail on screen.
  
  The grand campain is so replayable, if you like grand strategy and intense real time battles there 
 is always something to come back for.
  
  Problems I had with the game was questionable AI, and a seeming trend for family members to pick 
 up annoying traits which cripple their stats.
  
  Overall this is an amazing game. I cannot wait for Empire, and because of my penchance for the 
 medieval time period i have a secret hope they do medieval 3, or afurther expansion, some day to 
 refine the game even further. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CascadeHush
Rating: 4
Date: Sep 18, 2008 8:33 pm PT
Review:  I hate M2TW. The citadel/city thing means you have to ferry troups between cities to get them properly 
 equiped. The Holy See is overburdensome and fussy and ruins the fun. Merchants are too expensive, 
 too easy to loose and take way to much micromanagement to make useful. Events that should be have 
 a random chance of success like assasinations or spying seem to have long runs of either bad or 
 good luck and make you distrust the game. And there are way, way too many unit types to get to 
 grips with, it just makes the whole game overly complicated for no sound reason. Despite having 
 some improvements to the interface the entire experience is one of utter frustration, bordem, and 
 micro-management. The longest game I played I managed to conquer most of what would be France, 
 Netherlands, Belgum and England in modern day terms, only to have a bad decision on the part of 
 Rome make my entire empire fall apart. It's just not fun at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AruKiller
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 16, 2008 10:09 am PT
Review:  This is one of the best RTS games ever. The graphics look awesome especially on units. Very good 
 details on units and on buildings.
  But in Rome: Total War I liked that I could see the city on battle map. In this game the building 
 details look really good and when I first played this game i hoped to see the city on battle map.
 
  The battles are awesome but the archers are a little bad in aiming because they shoot on air and 
 the opponent have moved by the time the arrow comes down.
  Weather conditions are cool but it doesen't change anything in the game so whats the point in that?
 
  Game specs are demanding but my PC have 512RAM and bad video card so i can't enjoy the great graphics 
 but even these in minimum it is a great game.
  
  It has some more flaws but they are minor to me so i don't say them.
  Generally the game is really 
 awesome and because of the flaws i gave the game 8.5/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedneckGamer87
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 10, 2008 3:03 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: In Medieval Total War 2 you are brought back to medieval Europe, but this time around 
 the mid to late period when William Wallace is fighting the English to the discovery of Americas. 
 Of course you get the usuall fractions like France, England, Scotland, Spain, but there are also 
 new fractions such as The Holy Roman Empire and Venice. Be warned, however. This is not the revolutionary 
 leap forward we saw in Rome: Total War, it's almost the same type of gameplay accept with a few 
 new features such as Improved combat choreography, larger armies, quicker pace, and spectacular 
 finishing moves make this the most visceral and exciting Total War ever. There is a few other features 
 such as princesses which you can use also as diplomats as well as marry them in to your allies 
 to strengthen the alliance and merchants who can set up trade to increase wealth and priests who 
 can convert nations if your faith. All in all i enjoyed the gameplay but it was pretty much the 
 same as Rome Total War. Also I did not like the ship battles, it just remained the same. OF course 
 there is a multiplayer portion of the same which I enjoyed and the interface seems to be improved 
 aswell.
  
  Graphics: I have to say that the graphics have been improved from Rome Total War and it's expantions. 
 Graphics are far more rich, detailed and smoothed out this time around. Like a said before battles 
 sequences look smoother and battle maps and the campine map looks just more enhanced then in Rome. 
 
  
  Sound: Well once gain the sound has been well done in this game. Everything from the running of 
 the calvery to the voice acting is quite well done. I got the speical edition copy of this game 
 and I have to say soundtrack in this game is well done and suits the game of course. All in all 
 it's well done.
  
  Value: Well in the end this is a really good game, nothing revolutionay like Rome though. I think 
 that they should of waited one more year or so to add more features before releasing because it 
 looked to much like Rome Total War. All in all you will have hours apon hours of replay value in 
 this game and don't think you will get bored of this game any time soon. I would recommend this 
 game to anyone to enjoys RTS games or just games in general. Since it was nothing revolutionary 
 though it was still a great game I will have to give this game 8.7 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: konarob8
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 27, 2008 2:07 am PT
Review:  Great game. It's not much of a step forward from Rome, other than graphically, but that is no bad 
 thing. The list of different units and factions is mind boggling. There are so many different units 
 available to different factions that to really get good one needs a lot of game time with a faction. 
 Having said that there are a lot of generic units that do not change from faction to faction (knights, 
 crossbowmen etc) . 
  The main lesson that you have to learn is to effectively control an "all arms" army, use of a combination 
 of spears, swords, archers and cavalry is essential if you wish to succeed at anything other than 
 the very easiest difficulty levels. There is a place and a purpose for all of the units on the 
 battlefield. If you haven't found a use for them yet then there is something you are missing.
 
  I do miss some of the more exotic units from Medieval I, especially the region specific units. 
 The experience bonuses for training certain units in certain provinces have gone too unfortunately 
 as has the titles system, a real shame as that was often a great way of getting all conquering 
 generals. The best units for most factions are only available late game which is a bit of a shame 
 because often by that stage it is all but won.
  Overall though a HUGE game that can and will keep you occupied for hours/days/weeks and even months. 
 With the add on Kingdoms it becomes almost too big, I sometimes don't know where to start!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Enigma_Ltd
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 26, 2008 9:04 pm PT
Review:  The Total War series has a solid history of providing fun and deep strategy titles, and Medieval 
 II: Total War does not fall short of this successful pedigree.
  
  The main campaign is the real meat of the experience, and is broken into two main parts. 
  
 
  First is the campaign map, on which armies and cities and the general shape of the world is manipulated 
 in turn-based fashion. Through the use of "agents" which vary from priests to assassins, it is 
 possible to become a mighty nation with many allies and just as many enemies. The campaign map 
 has a relatively high learning curve simply because of the enormous amount things possible and 
 the depth of interactions available. When attacking an enemy army or city, you are given a brief 
 overview of the odds of victory and details about the battle, as well as the choice to simulate 
 the battle or fight it on the battle map. 
  
  The battle map is a stunning thing, with highly detailed, varied units. Unlike in other strategy 
 games, one unit is not a single soldier but a whole battalion of soldiers, meaning that battles 
 can easily range from small skirmishes to massive sieges involving literally tens of thousands 
 of troops. These battles feature well-equipped AI, and the unit system means that real world tactics 
 and strategy are required for anything short of a wholesale slaughter of your forces, a fact that 
 makes the game very interesting, but also involves a steep learning curve.
  
  Historic battles are also offered, which play out as battles with predetermined forces and starting 
 deployments, enabling you to try to fight the battle a different way. Thinking of charging the 
 French at the Battle of Agincourt? Why not give it a shot and see how it turns out?
  
  Quick battles and multiplayer battles are also available, featuring the ability to decide what 
 type of battle will be fought, where it will be fought, and who will be fighting it.
  
  The depth of features in the campaign, as well as the intellectually stimulating and challenging 
 battles will keep any strategy fan coming back for more. I myself was not a fan of turn-based games 
 prior to this, but find myself losing track of time because of this game. If you are a strategy 
 fan, either real-time or turn-based, this game has a balance that will leave satisfied and craving 
 for more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crush_Project
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 23, 2008 1:59 pm PT
Review:  The game has alot to be said for it, its large, with many factions. There are alot of unit types, 
 and the combat system is decent. Attacking and defending cities is an interesting experience if 
 not somewhat lengthy for whats actually achieved.
  
  For the first half of the game i thought this was the best game made in the last decade until i 
 hit that half way point. Once armies hit a certain point in the campaign, they just go utterly 
 retarded. The game has an incredible lack of coding for unit ai and pathing. Your forced to control 
 each unit you own individually and when you have a large army this gets more and more time consuming 
 as well as frustrating. Sometimes even individual attention is not enough as you see your units 
 start running back and forth for no reason thats easy to detect (or simply sit and do nothing at 
 all) .
  
  Large melee combats can turn bad as well, as units you send into combat have a tendancy to just 
 sit and do nothing until you spam order commands over and over several dozen times to attack targets. 
 And for you normal rts kids, dont even try dancing your units. Units barely respond within a minute 
 much less fast enough to react to an enemy, so its all or nothing in every battle with little input 
 required once your units are in position.
  
  The game is a good game, and i hear the multiplayer is still pretty kickin, but the campaign is 
 a buncha bs after the enemies get leveled up. Your ai just cant do anything right, and they get 
 armies twice the size of yours when they only control a single city for example. Then lets say 
 you are winning the pope will just show up and say 'stop attacking this faction or you get excommunicated.' 
 The whole world just seems to turn against you part way through the game in a unified screw over.
 
  
  The computer seems to have infinite resources at its disposal, and has every building already built 
 you could want, and as mentioned above, the farther you get into the game, the less control you 
 have over your own armies to deal with these more and more exotic weapons/units/buildings the enemy 
 has all over the place.
  
  Good game, but dont buy it new, pick it up cheap on like amazon or something. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TotalWarDude
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 12, 2008 3:10 am PT
Review:  With the CA team delivering on every game so far, its not surprising that this game has delivered 
 nearly all CA promised.
  
  Were to begin, well the most ore inspiring thing is when you finally download the game which can 
 take a long time, is the amazing graphics which just seem to really bring the game right out to 
 you. I was most amazed at the the unit graphic quality, the historical accuracy is only complemented 
 more by the experience of being able to zoom in close on the unit in battle. I can not see a major 
 floor in the game quality besides from the difficult controls of positioning troops just right. 
 I only found floors that were ones that were always going to be difficult to work out. Though i 
 would of liked to see a bit more unit diversity rather than just your peasent and your higher grade 
 heavies, there are some middle troops but they are really no help due to there light armour or 
 if they are classed as heavies they have only really have good weapon strength. But besides that 
 i have no problem with melee units but the age of the gun powder was coming to be but there was 
 no real interest placed on the gun powder units. Their melee had alot to be desired, in melee they 
 will stop and place their guns away slowly and then pull their swords out. But with some problems 
 its all in all good gameplay for the battles.
  
  
  Moving on to the grand campagin ,in this part of the game you will take control of 5 or so fractions. 
 you will have to decide which fraction you will be and weather it will be long or short. In the 
 campagin mode you start of with very small armies and low funds, you need to to get some funds 
 and i advise constructing money maker buildings. You will also need more troops and you should 
 slowly build up your troops, you should also gain expirence by custom battles on a higher level 
 than you normally play on in your campagin. I advise placing your lower troops because in the campagin 
 that normally all you can afford. Thogh i could keep talking about how good this game is which 
 takes place in europe and africa and middle-east i have to rap it up so you can fing the surpises 
 in store for you 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Last_Ride
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 1, 2008 7:11 am PT
Review:  I didn't play the first one so much, but played to others very much, and i got to say i like the 
 way they did this game. With more complicated twists and angles in this game it makes it harder 
 to win a campaign, which is not just a bad thing. A lot strategy has to be used when you play in 
 or out of the battles. The factor of the pope can be good depending on how good of a relationship 
 you have got with him. The crusades can be bugging if you don't want to, but that's just an extra 
 factor in the game that makes it more interesting to play. This is a solid game if you have liked 
 the previous game in the Total War series. A game worth buying, trust me. It isn't the best game 
 after my taste but I think you still should still check this out because it is worth to try out 
 this game. Because this is a that can get you occupied for a really good while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spylol
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 29, 2008 9:49 am PT
Review:  This game is one of my personal favorites so leme list the good and the bad
  
  Good:
  Amazing sound track
  Its just right difficulty
  True medieval atmosphere makes you feal like 
 your there :)
  You can elect the pope
  You can go to war against the pope
  You can request crusades against your unfriendly christian counterparts if you play your cards 
 right whith the pope
  Extremely unpredictable (Is that good or bad?) Ex. My ally russia attacked me and killed my king 
 when i was trying to finish hungary and spain
  You can make custom battles and have fun doing insane battles Ex. An army of cavalry vs an army 
 of pikemen
  You can do quick battles which is a random army vs a random army or castle or fort or w/e it is 
 its completely random
  You can assassinate enemy kings
  You can send a spy into an enemy city and open the gates durring a siege (Very helpfull)
  You 
 can recruit merchants to help expand you income but whatch out for other merchants that can buy 
 you out
  There are no glitches or bugs or anything that ruined the game while playing (AWESOME!!!)
  LOADS 
 of countries (Around 12 but i forgot howmany)
  
  Bad:
  Your prolly gona want a pretty good comp before buying and installing this game (Trust me)
  Uh. 
 . .Thats it for bad i think
  
  Summary:
  Its an amazing game for hardcore guys there are two types of grand campaigns short and long. Short 
 takes about a week and long takes a month but it that week or month you'l have one of the best 
 medieval experiances you'l prolly ever have! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Civfan333
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 25, 2008 2:22 pm PT
Review:  I borrowed this game from my friend 30 WEEKS ago......... I still haven't given it back.
  
  
  Medieval II total war is a mix of turn-based and real-time tactical that blends extremely well. 
 The premise is you are the leader of a faction. There's a good variety, each have different unique 
 units. They range from England to the Russians to the Moors to Sicily to Egypt. And yes, the difficulty 
 depends on what faction you use. for example, the Holy Romans are easy to play as (right in the 
 middle of the map, start with powerful units and lots of castles.) Take that into contrast for 
 the Egyptians. REALLY REALLY hard to win as. (mongols timurids, not to mention the odd crusade 
 against them.) 
  
  When you lead your troop into battle is the best part of this game. Your troops listen to you (Although 
 the sometimes take the complete WRONG direction.) and respond to your commands. And real-time tactical's 
 are WAY cooler than any RTS's........ except maybe AoE..... but the AI is pretty good and can outsmart 
 you (on very hard difficulty it happens mostly)
  
  My only beef with this game is that it's a computer hog, takes up lots of space, needs extremely 
 good graphics cards. But I do have advice for people with bad graphic cards. go to options (NOT 
 the in-game ones) and fiddle around with all the stuff there. I got the shields and designs on 
 my horses and troops SUPER sharp just be fiddling around with it. And I have a NVIDIA 6150 LE, 
 pathetic I know...)
  
  but anyway, bottom line, a NEED if you have a computer that doesn't completely suck in every way..... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firebird024
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 21, 2008 10:24 pm PT
Review:  First, the campaign is great. You get started off with 5 factions, England, France, The Holy Roman 
 Empire, Venice, and Spain. As you play as these factions you find their strengths and their weaknesses. 
 But once you conquer a faction, you can play them, except for the Papal States and some other factions. 
 
  
  England is good for archers. They are excellent archers, good for killing infantry at long range. 
 The French have the best Calvary. Holy Roman Empire has a good mix of units. Venice, has good crossbowman 
 and some other units. Spain has almost all missile units in the early years, sometimes very effective 
 in different circumstances. 
  
  Different factions have different units, religion and personality. Also, their are over 100's of 
 different units using way different weapons. The sound is great, hearing the voice of the leader 
 in the beginning of the battle, hearing the screams of the people that are about to die, and the 
 yells of the charging men. 
  
  Their are over 20 different factions meaning more axes, spears, swords, missiles, and more. You 
 could have over 1000 men on a field and fight another 1000 men. You can hear the swords cling, 
 the axes pierce the armor, and the arrows going into the infantry. Also you can zoom in to a battle 
 field and see what your infantry do to the enemy. 
  
  If your thinking of getting this game, get it, its well over 100 hours of work in the campaign. 
 Also its very fun to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: X3Warrior
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 21, 2009 11:57 am PT
Review:  Let's put it like this. Medieval II: Total War is one of the greatest RTS games ever made. The 
 Creative Assembly never disappoints.
  
  Medieval II, as its name says, takes place during the Middle Ages, during the time of knights, 
 castles, and epic battles. And Medieval II sure does the battles well. The game can display up 
 to 10,000 individually animated troops, meaning they don't all move at the same time. The sound 
 effects are awesome, so awesome that if you close your eyes and imagine a little bit, it feels 
 like you're in the battle. Medieval II pays close attention to details, such as the fighting styles 
 (the soldier swing their swords in more than one way) , the clangs of swords and the screams of 
 someone who just impaled by arrows (archers don't have infinite ammo, to keep things real) . Everything 
 is really like what happened during those times.
  
  Off the battlefield and into the turn-based empire management screen, you can build structures 
 in your cities and castles to recruit agents such as spies and assassins, and be able to get better 
 units. You can meet with other factions to discuss things such as trade rights and alliances, or 
 declare war. And speaking of faction, this isn't like your average RTS game where you have a small 
 number of factions. Medieval II has over 15 factions, all of which are unique and have different 
 strategies. Religion also plays a big part. You have to deal with the Pope often. If you don't 
 do what he says, he will like you less and less, as well as other factions who obey the Pope. All 
 of these features add to the realism.
  
  Every game has bad points, but I can only think of a few for Medieval II. This game can be tough 
 on players who are new to strategy, or who just haven't played a total war game before. There is 
 a lot to memorize, such as where menus are, and how to make enough money to stay out of the red. 
 The camera controls also take some getting used to (move the cursor to the edge, and the camera 
 rotates instead of panning) , but that's nothing really. The last thing is that Sega, who publishes 
 the game, doesn't offer much support for Medieval II, and the help forums at totalwar. com weren't 
 very helpful in my opinion. I may need to look harder, but whatever.
  
  All in all, if you are a Total War fan, or just a gamer looking for some fun, get this, and wage 
 total war on Europe. And have loads of fun while doing it.
  
  The Good: Fun battles, deep campaign gameplay, great graphics.
  
  The Bad: Bad AI, lack of 
 naval battles, horrible voice acting for most factions, hard to field truely massive armies, battles 
 are fairly similar.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: VsemPizdetz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 16, 2008 11:16 am PT
Review:  What I love about the Total War series is the ability to renact battles based on actual historic 
 documentary by finding the right location in the campaign map, place major ambushes and the ability 
 to actually see the detalied warfare would never get boring. The campaign itself is extraordinary, 
 with various empires to control and dozens and dozens of different units to manage into battle; 
 whether laying a siege on a city or engaging an ncoming army. 
  
  Of course, it would take a mega computer to play this game on max settings and with huge scale 
 armies to do this so...
  
  I would love various improvements in the next Total War which Im greatly looking forward to n 
 artificial intelligence, more complexity and mirco management and a little component to the realism... international 
 languages for various nations. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: play_thegame
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 9, 2008 10:52 am PT
Review:  Medieval 2 is a lot like Rome total war.... but that's fine as RTW ROCKED!!! 
  
  as in Rome with the emphasis on roman factions in this game the focus is on the dominant catholic 
 faction and each ones struggle with the pope. there isn't alot to be altered when you have a such 
 a good formula. sure the senate has gone, as well as the legions of Rome but only to be replaced 
 by the pope and the college of cardinals, and the legions of any country you want, as barbarians 
 just don't exist any more.
  
  carve out an empire in Europe with France's superior cavalry, show the pope who's boss as the Germans, 
 or if your tired of owning nothing pack up and conquer the Aztecs as Portugal/ Spain.
  
  Each factions have several unique units, however most of them are unlocked later in the game as 
 your cities and castles advance. every faction has some sort of specialist field/ advantage. France 
 and Russia possess the best cavalry in the game, England's Longbow men are unmatched, the Danes 
 possess some of the best shock infantry in the game and the Iberian factions, once surviving the 
 dreaded moors, are very well accustomed to gunpowder units, as are most of Italy's various city 
 states
  
  If you aren't experienced at the total war series, you can pick things up. and losing the game 
 wont matter as you can restart as a new faction you have unlocked bringing your new-found experience. 
 even when you get bored there are dozens of mod's on the Internet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1qqaaz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 3, 2008 2:41 am PT
Review:  After playing Shogun total war, this game is like a work of art. The graphics, sounds and value 
 are almost prefect. There are only three flaws that I can think of. 
  
  It does not improve on the previous version very much. Rome total war had similar graphics, and 
 certain qualities that should not have been taken away. The campaign in Rome Total war was a bit 
 more interesting, and you were not always annoyed by the pope.
  
  Secondly, it can be unrealistic and unbalanced in certain ways. In this game, there are about 16 
 Christian factions, and only three Islamic factions. In my opinion, it would be more interesting 
 if there could be more Islamic factions to even things out. It is too easy for the player when 
 almost everyone shares a common enemy.
  
  Finally, the large battles tend to lag. You can not let your imagination go wild when you can only 
 have so many troops on the battlefield. This restriction makes it unrealistic, because there were 
 no restrictions in real life. They still did a pretty good jobs in preventing lag. In Age Of Empires, 
 you could only have a couple hundred people to keep game play smooth. In medieval 2, you can have 
 thousands. 
  
  None of the three flaws are anything to sneeze at, as they do not prevent you from having fun. 
 You can choose from many different factions. If you come from a country in that area, it can be 
 fun to play as that nation. This is one of the biggest improvements from the other games. There 
 are now many factions, especially with the expansions packs and mods. This game is about as good 
 as computers can handle, and probably deserves even more of a hype. Overall, I would say that this 
 game meets the standards of the companies previous games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LazyGamer_24
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 14, 2008 8:45 pm PT
Review:  In the game Medieval II: Total War, you must lead 1 of 17 kingdoms to total domination using trade, 
 religion, espionage, alliances, and military might to achieve this glorious victory. You start 
 out with a couple of factions first, but you must destroy other factions to unlock them. Each faction 
 has its strengths and weaknesses and units from splendidly armored French Knights to Spanish Conquistadors. 
 The game commences in turns and each turn is 2 years. The game spans from 1080 to 1530 so there's 
 250 so turns.
  
  In the beginning you start out with a number provinces with some as a city or castle. You don't 
 have to leave them like so, you can convert it to the other. There is only a source of money, no 
 food and building supplies like other strategy games. You can adjust a tax rate in a city, but 
 not castle. Cities are for producing more money not military and have higher populations. Castles 
 produce military units, less economy, and have less population. You must build necessary buildings 
 in order to recruit special things or gain bonuses like barracks are for recruiting infantry units 
 and farms give a better food production letting cities survive longer in a siege. You will also 
 receive missions to do from the Pope or the Council of Nobles. You don't have to do any of the 
 missions, but if you deny the Pope he won't favor your faction and inquisitors will sweep through 
 your lands and trial your generals and you may lose them if you don't have enough piety. One very 
 cool thing is that when you upgrade a soldiers armor it actually shows a different image on the 
 battlefield than its original stage. Differentiation of soldiers is also in the game.
  
  There are agents in the game like diplomats, spies, assassins, and priests/imams. Diplomats are 
 made to announce alliances or trade rights, spies give information on armies and settlements, assassins 
 kill characters like generals, and priests/imams spread their countries faith throughout lands 
 and denounce heretics. Only the Papal States have inquisitors.
  
  When an army attacks another army or settlement a battle commences. At the start of the battle 
 you deploy your troops and then the fight begins with your army clashing with another. The battles 
 look spectacular with cavalry slicing through enemy lines, sounds of swooshing arrows, and the 
 motion capture attacks and differentiation of soldiers. Also music is constantly playing which 
 sounds great.
  
  The bad is that the game takes good system requirements to be stable and even better to run smoothly. 
 Naval battles you still cannot fight in the game. You must auto resolve, but you can't help or 
 anything. Lastly, the worst thing of all is that there are many bugs in the games that cause missing 
 units in the campaign and other stuff.
  
  Medieval II: Total War is an excellent game if you're a strategy game fan, but make sure you have 
 a good computer to run it. Check out the gameplay videos for guides. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jordasher2002
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 19, 2008 8:27 am PT
Review:  I love all the Total War games they just get better and better.
  
  First off this is Strategy at its best.
  
  The graphics are great, but not exactly a major 
 improvement of Rome: Total War.
  
  But for a HIstorical strategy game I think its the best in its class until the new Empire: Total 
 War comes out which I quite honestly believe that it will be one of the greatest historical stategy 
 games ever created.
  
  Back to MediEval 2: Total War.
  
  It is a great game, but like I said its a small improvement over the previous masterpiece of a 
 game Rome : Total War.
  
  Anyways that said I have not mentioned the expansion pack called MediEval 2 : Total War - Kingdoms 
 for this game, which totally redeems itself.
  
  This is by far the best expansion pack I have ever seen for a strategy game.
  It Adds 4 totally 
 new Campaigns which the original game only came with one. You get to revisite the Crusades just 
 like in the movie Kingdom Of Heaven or the Britannica Campaign when William Wallace of BraveHeart 
 was around or if you enjoy Vikings or happened to catch the movie Apocalypto you can continue the 
 experience within this new expansion pack.
  Not to mention all the new units and maps you can enjoy.
  
  So I will rate this game and give 
 it a 9.0 while including the expansion pack. Otherwise I would give the game on its own an 8.0. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JwresB
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 18, 2008 10:38 pm PT
Review:  I've been a fan of Creative Assembly since my first encounter with Shogun: Total War. Shogun was 
 quickly followed by Medieval: Total War, and recently a new engine in Rome: Total War, which has 
 thusly spawned one of the more recognizable and popular franchises in PC gaming.
  
  For those of you new to Total War, let me provide a brief summary of how the game works. After 
 choosing a faction, difficulty level, and campaign type (short or long) , you are thrust onto the 
 main map, looking at your nation with the capital dead center. From there you can move armies and 
 non-combat units, with the limits of their movement designated in green, you can click cities to 
 build, repair, or retrain units and buildings. The statistics and traits of characters can be seen 
 by selecting them and double-clicking their portraits. These screens will let you know what kind 
 of defense and attack values a unit has, or the kind of skill a priest, spy, assassin or princess 
 possesses.
  
  It is on the strategic map where the player spends most of his time, trying to decide the proper 
 course of action, making sure he has used his units to full effect and checking on movements by 
 enemies that may threaten his cities, armies, navies, or special units.
  
  The battles are also the area where I first noticed a problem with Medieval 2. The AI is better 
 than Rome but still not great. Difficulty levels don't change how the AI behaves, simply how tough 
 its units are. At Very Hard difficulty, peasants will not only hold their ground against a heavy 
 cavalry charge, they'll do so when being flanked. The simple morale bonuses are lazy and make combat 
 at high difficulty levels unappealing since the AI so clearly cheats. Another problem in battles 
 is when the computer opponent fails to react. This most often comes against ranged units and especially 
 cannon. He will often sit in a position, even a very disadvantageous one, and get decimated by 
 an artillery barrage. While Creative Assembly has promised a patch to fix this issue as soon as 
 possible, we can't help but wonder how it ever made it through testing in the first place  it 
 happens so often that complaints about static AI are ubiquitous.
  
  Medieval Total War II is a great game and should not be missed by anyone who love RTS games.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Belcarius
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 14, 2008 9:25 pm PT
Review:  Generally speaking the Total War series has progressed with each new game by adding better graphics 
 and more features, and this is true with Medieval II. The problem as I see it, however, is that 
 they still haven't addressed some of the annoying niggling flaws that stop this game from being 
 close to perfect.
  
  Graphically it's a nice improvement on the original Medieval, although anyone who has played Rome 
 will instantly recognise the map as being almost exactly the same, only prettier. The actual battles 
 look the best yet, particularly when troops meet in melee combat. And there are some new random 
 movies that play when assassins attack or characters get married, which are nice, but get old fast.
 
  
  Soundwise it's on the same level as its predecessors, which is excellent. It suits the atmosphere 
 beautifully.
  
  In terms of gameplay, there are a few things to discuss. Firstly, the additions. Merchants provide 
 you with another thing to juggle on the land map, making resources even more significant as they 
 can directly earn you florins, based on the skill of the merchant. Then there's the distinction 
 between Castles and Cities, which is an excellent addition. To sum it up, Castles are where you 
 can produce the best units, while Cities have the best economic production. No longer can you turn 
 every city into a super gargantuan fortress that can do everything. It's much more realistic, and 
 it adds more strategy to the game, as you can't reinforce professional armies from a city anymore, 
 forcing you to make use of militia (which has been expanded from just the basic cannon fodder of 
 Medieval I into diverse units capable of holding a city on their own) .
  
  These are good additions to the series. However, this is where I need to start taking marks of 
 the game for not being historically authentic. First of all, the Popal system. It's basically a 
 cross between the Senate from Rome and the Pope from Medieval I, but it just winds up being annoying. 
 While you of course are subject to ruthless punishment from the Pope for stepping out of line, 
 the AI is like one of those annoying school bullies who never gets punished for beating you up. 
 When factions get excommunicated it seems to be an entirely random decision, IE not the person 
 who just decided to attack you with no warning or provocation. What's worse, when you decide to 
 go and hit back at them for starting something, the Pope tells you to stop it or be excommunicated. 
 This kills the historically authentic feeling, other than to ram home the point that religion is 
 hypocritical and biased.
  
  And let's discuss AI while we're on the subject. I don't know why any developer has not yet been 
 able to make AI that acts like a real historical leader and not like the Skynet computer from Terminator, 
 and by that I mean it seems to follow the diplomatic policy best summarised as KILL ALL HUMANS. 
 Basically the AI will happily team up with anyone but you for most of the game, and will form alliances 
 to crush you for daring to not be governed by a microchip. It isn't uncommon to get into the later 
 part of the game and be at war with half of Europe without having provoked anyone. And once these 
 wars start, you can't stop them without crushing the AI utterly because it will never surrender. 
 That's right, try and sign a peace treaty with them and the computer will start spouting Hitleresque 
 garbage about how apparently you are close to defeat. Simply putting a ceasefire on the table after 
 crushing about 4 of their cities will usually give you a "very demanding" result, which is again 
 totally inaccurate.
  
  Finally a few more pretty things that detract from the authentic nature of the game. Crusading 
 armies will suffer desertions for almost no reason, which if you're a far off nation like England 
 makes it almost impossible to get to the Holy Land and thus you can be guaranteed the Pope will 
 hate you. Agents are actually quite frustrating to use. Assassins almost never seem to actually 
 kill their target, merchants can "outfinance" another merchant and take control of his resources, 
 but you can't do the historically accurate action of sending troops to shut down foreign merchants 
 on your soil. Like Rome the game denies you the ability to start playing any faction, you have 
 to unlock them. Lastly, naval warfare continues to be a number crunching exercise with no real 
 strategy involved.
  
  From my little rant it might seem like I don't like this game: I in fact do. I like it so much 
 that these particular flaws annoy me greatly because they stop it from being a really great experience 
 for someone who's interested in recreating history. I'm particularly annoying with the AI because 
 that has been a pain in every Total War game and they've never done anything to make it better. 
 So I'm writing this review hoping that someone at Creative Assembly reads it and has an epiphany, 
 but I suspect that Empire: Total War will just be more of the same. But please, you can't do yourself 
 a disservice by buying this game. If you can ignore the aforementioned issues then there are some 
 great moments to be had in store, and you shouldn't miss out on them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nopenoway0
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 4, 2008 9:20 pm PT
Review:  Let's split this into three sections-Graphics, Game play, Sound.
  
  ***************************
  *******GRAPHICS*******
  ***************************
  Although 
 it doesn't have the best graphics, in my opinion COH does, it still has liveliness to it. It's 
 really nice to see the beautifully rendered cities in this game. Gotta say though, game play is 
 where it really shines....
  
  **************************
  ******GAME PLAY*******
  **************************
  Ah yes, game play. This has got to be the second best game of its 
 genre since Rome: Total War. Combos are nice, as well as how realistic flanking and morale is. 
 What I like about this game is the fact that you must actually use your head when in big battles. 
 It's pretty sick to kill an army six times bigger than yours, by planning out the attack.
  
  ***********************
  ********SOUND******
  Eh, sound is okay. People yell when they 
 charge swords clank and catapult shots go boom.
  
  
  
  I definitely recommend this game, especially if you liked Rome: Total War. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSBBPlayer
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 2, 2008 3:13 pm PT
Review:  Every time I play this game I love to perfect every thing i've done on it to make it the best, 
 to make it the greatest empire of all time. If you don't like to wait for things to happen, don't 
 play this game, if you dont like making a new world, don't play this game, you don't like destroying 
 your enemys, befriending other countries or managing your royal family, don't play this game, but 
 if you do like doing all those things this is a game you don't want to miss out on. Take out spain 
 with your french armys, assainite the king of England, have one of the greatest battles with the 
 timur, the timirod king, make an aliance with the pope or discover the america's in this action, 
 stredegy and fun packed game. When you play this game think about what the world would be like 
 if this really happened, if a wiped this country of the map, and after you think about that, destroy 
 them. This time Europe will have a new destiny. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fred144
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 15, 2008 6:43 pm PT
Review:  it is a huge improvement from rome. the battles look great and it runs smooth. the announcer who 
 talks during the battles can get annoying. i think that the diffculty can be improved, now if played 
 on very hard the computer just does stupid movements like sicily attacking england in the beging 
 of the game. also the diplomacy is not improved, i think there should be multiple levels of diplomacy 
 that would be for example- a basic relationship that could be formed into a stronger alliance and 
 then there should be a final alliance that is harder to obtain this treaty and would require either 
 a marrage into the royal family or by long lasting relationship or with help in battle. i think 
 that when those final treaties are formed a country can get a great bonus and if they are broken 
 for no reason then there should be a penalty. one other major topic is the battles, yes the graphics 
 are amazing but the game play is not as good as it could be i find my self just running the same 
 formation and the same three stragities to easily beat the opponent. those are some of the ideas 
 that i hope sega is working on. and one more thing i almost forgot i need to PICK MY FACION HEIR 
 OR AT LEAST BE ABLE TO ASSAINATE MY GENERAL. ok thats it for now =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Baron_Kenobi
Rating: 9
Date: May 13, 2008 7:48 am PT
Review:  The biggest problem that strategy game developers face in my opinion, is how much complexity to 
 add to their games. If you don't add enough, players get bored. Add to much, and the learning curve 
 becomes too steep, and no one is willing to invest the time to learn to play your game. Medieval 
 II strikes a good compromise, by mixing the turn based and real time elements together. 
  
  Essentially, you start on a strategic map, somewhat similar to Risk, and manage your cities, armies, 
 and other kingdom wide decisions, before sending your men into battle, in which you enter a real 
 time interface to control your troops. Those familiar with the Total War series understand what 
 I am talking about. This allows you to have plenty of control over your troops in battle, while 
 still having a degree of complexity in empire managing choices. I find this to be one of the best 
 systems in a strategy game I have played. It is similar to the system Rise of Nations used, but 
 I feel much more fulfilling.
  
  In terms of gameplay, the nations are all varied, in terms of troops, though some have very similar 
 armies. There is little difference between the Spanish and the Portuguese, but compare the Middle 
 Eastern nations to a European nation and you will see plenty of variety. Even the British, Scottish, 
 and French have very different armies. 
  
  In short, I would recommend this game to any fan of strategy games. It is truly a unique and enjoyable 
 experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dgsag
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 11, 2008 8:06 am PT
Review:  For full review and score breakdown:
  http://www. poland. us/strona,33,2562,0. html
  
  The Total War series has always been known for its depth of gameplay mechanics and intense battles. 
 Rome: Total War was a triumph, winning many awards for its innovative gameplay and graphics. Can 
 Medieval II live up to its predecessor?
  
  Medieval 2's gameplay is divided into two "layers". The majority of your time is spent in the turn-based 
 strategic layer, where you manage every little nuance of your empire. This is where you make all 
 your diplomatic, infrastructure, economic, and other wide-ranging decisions. You can only choose 
 from five factions in the beginning, but can unlock more as you conquer others. There are two real, 
 "game-types:" a short campaign that requires you to capture 15 provinces, and a long one that can 
 require two to three times as much. Even short games can last a while, so make sure you have the 
 patience to handle them!
  
  Medieval 2's economic mechanics have gotten a bit more complicated and harder to manage. You can 
 now hire merchants, who can be used to obtain specific kinds of resources. While helpful, it does 
 tend to make the game a bit more complicated, as you'll have to be on the look-out for others trying 
 to buy out your merchants.
  
  Medieval 2 introduces the dramatically game-altering mechanic of religion, and it does it well. 
 You can construct places of worship such as churches, and can even influence the papal elections. 
 If you manage to seat a pope who is sympathetic to your side, he will be more willing to ignore 
 your aggressions against other, Christian empires. If you do manage to anger the pope, there's 
 a possibility that he can excommunicate you and even call a crusade against you, meaning you'll 
 have to contend with invasions from all sides.
  
  The bulk of the game requires you to raise, maintain, and use armies to conquer your enemy's cities. 
 There's a huge variety of units for each faction, and they all contribute to your army in specific 
 ways. While all of this may sound hard to manage, the game features an impressive interface that 
 makes things a lot easier to do.
  
  The game's AI has certainly gotten an upgrade since the last installment, probing for weaknesses 
 and attacking when appropriate. Unfortunately, enemy turns take a tediously long time to resolve 
 on the default settings, as you have to sit and wait for every unit in sight to make its move. 
 You can turn enemy movements off and the turns will go by much quicker, though you do lose the 
 chance to see what the enemy is doing during its turns.
  
  If you choose to fight the game's battles in real-time, you're in for quite a visual treat. The 
 game gets rid of the clone armies found in previous games, and manages to create an illusion of 
 an army made up of thousands of unique individuals. As they begin to clash, individual soldiers 
 begin to engage in a series of duals, that often end with one guy executing an impressive finishing 
 move. Make sure you don't get distracted though, as the game incourages you to use realistic tactics. 
 Flank pikemen from behind with cavalry, protect your archers with swordsmen, etc.
  
  While the game was a bit demanding when it was first released, consumer graphics cards have quickly 
 caught up with the engine. A good midrange system can do incredible justice to this beautiful game. 
 The campaign map has been upgraded, making it seem much more "alive" then it did in previous installments. 
 Battles look incredible with thousands of units fighting in a variety of battlefields and climates.
 
  
  Medieval 2 sounds great. There's a large range of music for the varying situations that you can 
 find youself in, and the voice acting is appropriate to the factions that you encounter.
  
  There are a few modes beyond the standard campaign in Medieval II. There's a single-player skirmish 
 mode that lets you create custom battles. Multiplayer features two modes: last man standing and 
 scored resolution, but they both boil down to killing as many of the other guys as possible. Battles 
 support up to eight players, so there's potential for some extremely large and epic battles, but 
 the meat of the game is in the single-player campaign.
  
  Medieval 2 is a crown jewel of strategy games. Strategy fans shouldn't pass up Medieval's deep 
 gameplay, amazing graphics, and intriguing setting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KillOBKilled
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 8, 2008 7:46 am PT
Review:  I liked the game, but I had just finished playing Rome: Total War, and at this point I was just 
 bored. I did not think there were any significant additions, in fact I think something about the 
 combat system got worse... I couldn't point it out if I had too, but I just didn't like how things 
 behaved. If I hadn't played Rome just before I most certainly would have liked this game a little 
 more, but it felt like an almost purely graphic overhaul, and I hate it when companies market those...
 
  As a series I love the total war games. Just the right amount of turn based strategy with plenty 
 of RTS interspersed. Not to mention the fun of watching little peasants get thrown across the field 
 when charged at by a calvary charge. The siege warfare is also a nice aspect, improved on in this 
 game, but, unfortunately, that alone was not enough to grab my attention. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dennyjohn
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 24, 2008 6:10 pm PT
Review:  Totally Sick and Tired Too !!! of downloading the Medieval II: Total War v1.2 Patch and when unpacking 
 it getting a "corrupt file message" or getting to the install stage after unpacking the update 
 and getting a "file missing message" I have dowloaded this patch several times done fresh install 
 of tyhe game and feel Totally Ripped Off Too by SEGA. Good game to play the campaigns and single 
 battle modes are all acceptable. The rubbish production quality by SEGA and the time I have wasted 
 downloading the v1.2 patch has made it a very poor entertainment investment . Even though the game 
 is playable and I have a new PC with Nvidia graphics to play a game of this quality the purpose 
 is to be able to relax and enjoy it. Instead I have been frustrated and irritated with the experience 
 and want a refund not happy that SEGA have released a poorly produced version of a popular game 
 and the resulting Patches are a flop. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eddy_purpus
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 25, 2008 8:07 pm PT
Review:  yeah its the only thing i did not like in this game .
  the cavalry charges .
  they suck .
  its like charging with infantry , its the same ,
  but i think
  im right
  CAVALRY 
 CHARGES are more STRONGER and HARDER to STOP even at THE 3D defensive line of THE ATTACKED enemies 
 .
  thats my opinion .
  one thing is missing to .
  is naval battles . . .
  ahhhhh .
  that sucks .
  but this game is almost complete , its fully enjoyable ,
  its worth the money 
 you spent .
  but youre going to need a better graphics card .
  its beautiful dough!
  also i think archers mess up by shooting their arrows that high .
  when they shoot the arrows 
 .
  they aimed . but because infantry can move , its harder to kill sometimes with archers .
  Trebuchets 
 are soo innacurate and malicious . that when i was siegeing a city and i was firing big stones 
 with them .
  it hit my infantry instead of enemies infantry .
  that pissed me off to much .
  and one more thing .
  
  IVE never seen a witch in the game 
 !
  what a **** !
  i want to see her magical abilities affect my generals and priests .
  
  but anyways .
  this game has a 9/10 from me .
  it was Almost but not quite the game i expected 
 . . .
  
  Thanks for reading take care . ;)
  
  
  
  
  Edvard0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonny_zoo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 25, 2008 6:25 pm PT
Review:  Medieval 2 total war is the seccond game in the total war series and it is a good effort from the 
 people at creative assembly, well if you know your total war games very well then you will know 
 that this game is a turn-based historic real-time stratagy game that takes place in the middle 
 ages.
  
  In medieval 2's grand campaign at first you can choose from around 5 different factions to play 
 as at first but as you continue to play the game you will unlock 12 other factions of which you 
 can play as.
  
  Historic events in the grand campaign happen pretty much in real time, at the same time they happend 
 in the real world.
  
  But it does not stop there, all of the action happens in fully 3D battles, and thats were the graphics 
 engine works at it's fullest, but the way you fight those battles is simulated as what would happen 
 in real life so different factors that effect your troups on the battlefeild include moral, and 
 the character leading the battle.
  
  Navel battles unfortenetly don't work on a battle feild which would've been much fun to fight but 
 dispite that, this game is a fun, good looking game that you should get if you can afford it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KennyYoung
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 24, 2008 4:21 pm PT
Review:  Medieval 2: Total War is one of the best RTS ever made. ME:2 allows you to play as any one of 18 
 factions which include England, France, Spain, The Holy Roman Empire, Portugal, Denmark, Milan, 
 Venice, Hungary, Egypt, The Turks, Russia, Poland, Scotland, Sicily, The Moors, The Byzantines, 
 and even the Papal States. Each of these factions has there own unique units they can recruit, 
 buildings that they can construct, and technologies the can research. 
  
  The bulk of the game is the campiagn mode. The campaigns are really long and take at least a few 
 days to complete, more likely closer to a week. Each faction starts off with at least 1 city while 
 others can have 2 or 3. The campaign is played in turns where during each turn you can recruit 
 units, construct buildings, repair damaged buildings, retrain fallen units, move armies across 
 the map, and use agents. Military units train in one turn where constructing buildings takes between 
 1 and 6 turns depending on the building. For example, building large walls or irrigating farms 
 take between three and six turns while simple buildings like dirt roads and leather makers take 
 only one turn. While moving your units across the map they can only go a certain distance before 
 having to stop and rest for a turn. Agents consist of merchants who increase your trade income, 
 priests who spread religion to your citizens, spies who infiltrate fortresses and show you enemies 
 defences, diplomats who forge alliances and negotiate trade rights, and assassins who kill important 
 enimies like generals or sabotage buildings. 
  
  Each city has an income of florins (the games currency) that are effected by trade, farming, population, 
 and taxes. Trade is increased by upgrading roads and researching markets, farming income can change 
 depending on the seasons harvest, and taxes can be raised or lowered during your turn which in 
 turn can either raise or lower your citizens happiness. If you don't keep your citizens happy they 
 can riot and rebel against you and become a rebel settlement. Happiness of your citizens depends 
 on how well your preists spread your religion, the cities amount of corruption, the amount of units 
 garrisoned in your town, amount of taxes, and certain buildings improve happiness and public order.
 
  
  The campaign is also full of historic events. During the campaign after a certain amount of turns 
 Europe will be invaded by the Mongols, effected by the Black Plauge, discover gunpowder, participate 
 in crusades called by the pope, and set off to explore the new world.
  
  The games combat is fantastic. During the campaign you can choose to fight battles out on the map 
 under your control or choose to simulate them. When fighting battles out, there is so much to admire. 
 The graphics are great each unit has certain armor, defence, attack, speed, and certain bonuses 
 like increased attack in the woods or snow. You can zoom in on the action to see the fighting up 
 close and its amazing. Each single man uses different moves, reacts to situations differently, 
 and fights differently while battling. If your attack is not doing so well some units may lose 
 hope and run away allowing you to chase them down for easy kills or you can capture them and ransom 
 them back to the other faction.
  
  Medieval does take a pretty good computer to really be able to participate in many battles and 
 while it doesn't completely lack multiplayer, You can only fight your friends in battles and not 
 face off in the campaign. All in all, Medieval 2: Total War is a truly great game, it gets a 9.5 
 in my book. A must buy for anyone with a decent computer. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Burney77
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 22, 2008 7:19 pm PT
Review:  Medieval Two Total War, is one of the best games i have ever played. It is a lot better than the 
 first one and leaves games like 'Empire Earth' and 'Age of Empires' in the dark. This game features 
 a huge variety of Factions to choose from. You can choose anything from the brave and skillful 
 English to the ravenous Scottish. There is a huge diversity in the way the map's are set out. There 
 are hundreds of different cities to take and you can take them when ever you want, or you can wait 
 until the council orders you to take a settlement or the holy church says there is a crusade and 
 you must join to take Jerusalem.
  
  The game offers challenges the whole way through with the introduction of the Mongols and when 
 you find the aztecs to the west of the map (around turn 150-160) . Other than the fact of not having 
 all the factions available at the start of the game and to not have access to the Papal Sates, 
 The Mongols and the Aztecs this game is great.
  
  signing out
  Burney77 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hockeytx27
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 21, 2008 6:20 pm PT
Review:  this game is good. its got great graphics, good feathures and you can go on crusades/jihads. i, 
 as a huge lover of medevil games must say that this is one of the best. unfortunitly there are 
 however with all games, some problems. for example the papel states. it defeats the purpose of 
 conquering the world. because the second you conquer them (if you dont own every city already) 
 they will relocate at take one of your cities. this is a mistake. also if you could make unlimited 
 amount of one unit every turn then it would be awesome!!!!, i accept through that that would be 
 unfair cause you can get 3 differant soilder cards a turn. utterwise i consider this game a well 
 planned, strategic, and violently great game. the total war sega has never failed in making its 
 games insanely good. they have made a great game that is 2nd only to Rome total war in all of this 
 particular sega. i enjoyed this game and still do. yet again another masterpeice 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FoeCrusher
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 17, 2008 8:04 am PT
Review:  Great game but I will be brief. There isn't anything really new with this version. At best it has 
 been subtlety tweaked and the graphics engine has been updated. The series is mature and if you 
 have played Medieval Total War then there isn't enough here to justify switching to the updated 
 version. If you haven't tried the Total War series then this is a great place to start.
  
  Positives:
  1) A great overarching strategic campaign
  2) Immersive strategic battles that 
 are important to personally command and have far reaching impacts on your success
  3) Rock paper scissors troop combat forcing you to have balanced forces
  4) A lot of economic 
 depth and tough choices to be made
  
  Negatives:
  1) This game is a huge time commitment with even the short campaign taking 10hrs or so. 
  2) 
 Key battles really can't be trusted to the computer. 
  3) Inquisitors slaughter your generals which seems really unbalanced especially given the general 
 difficulty in assassinating someone.
  
  Enjoy it, Foe
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DPumbliQ
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 14, 2008 5:11 pm PT
Review:  The first look at the menu in this game, reminds you of Medieval Total War and Rome Total War, 
 if you played the franchise's last installment, Rome Total War, the menu will be open for you like 
 last the time
  
  If you start with the tutorials you will be helped through a rather simple and easy campaign, along 
 with teaching you about battles, both siege and normal ones.
  
  Once you fire up the Grand Campaign, you should be greeted with a few factions, each have their 
 own strengths and weaknesses, and some have the advantage of land.
  
  If you defeat a faction in the Grand Campaign, you will be able to make a new Grand campaign with 
 that faction, or if you finish the Campaign, you will unlock all unlockable factions (Note: Papacy, 
 Mongols, Aztecs and Timruids are not playable without a mod)
  
  There are also historic battles (like in the old games) which allow you to replay some of Europe's 
 greatest battles, with you as the commander, difficulty is varies, but a good stragedy always beats 
 numbers, right? ;)
  
  Then you can customize your own battles, pit Danes against Moors and watch Viking steel cut Camel 
 flesh. But it has a unit cap, I usually just pass it, but it recommends to you what your computer 
 is able to do. Handy if you're not a gamer with a powerhouse PC.
  
  And that leads me to specs, this game isn't very new, I mean, it's not old, but now new. And it 
 uses a lot of the PC's power, and can even lag on great systems though they should be able to more 
 the handle it.
  
  But of course high specs don't just come for no reason (usually) , the character detail and the 
 epic battles will make your jaw touch the floor. City sieges are as fun as ever and the factions 
 feel more balanced now since Rome Total War.
  
  You can drop down and watch one of your men slice an stomach and then he stabs his heart, or you 
 can stay in the air and watch your men massacre the enemy.
  
  Sound is also top notch, I mean, when was it bad in a Total War game? Not much has been improved 
 about the sounds, but they are good, great for a Total War game.
  
  And to the high replay value, this game is what every Stragedy gamer wishes, and finishing it with 
 just one faction will not satisfy you, you will need more, and you will play until you get hungry 
 or you need to go to the bathroom.
  
  If it's at the right difficulty level, the AI can be fun and challenging without getting annoying. 
 If you are a Real Time and/or Turn Based Stragedy games fan with a good PC, you should run out 
 and buy a copy of this game, now! :P
  
  Awesome Game! : Real score: 9.6
  I must rental and a recommended buy :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PauloII
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 14, 2008 2:47 pm PT
Review:  After playing countless copys of Age of Empires, I finnaly found a really good game to combine 
 historical precision and epic gameplay. Ohhh and you need to know anything about strategy too- 
 Age of Empires and similars is just about who makes more soldiers first. Kind of hard if you don't 
 know anything about strategy, since it's a rather complex game, but still it is absolutely amasing. 
 I wander why anyone plays any other strategy game rather than Total War (at least those who know 
 Total War) . - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - 
 -- -- - - -- - - - - -- - - -
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aschuhart
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 14, 2008 10:20 am PT
Review:  In Medieval II, a standard ten-minute "battle" involves two or more armies of opposing alliances 
 or mixed association lining up in a parade formation and, also, removing feces in a violent fashion. 
 Multiple units of from twenty to a few hundred infantry, archers, cavalry, and artillery gather 
 in an easily modified deployment - thus adding up to as much as tens of thousands of soldiers. 
 
  
  In a standard "battle", five hundred to two thousand men will engage eachother; the player can 
 dictate down to the unit the methods of destruction, thus allowing a grand amount of tactical variation; 
 not to mention the hundreds of varying types of units that can be used. And that's just in the 
 field "battle" phase. In Medieval II, one can enjoy a quick battle with random armies and random 
 units; a custom battle with chosen armies and units on a chosen map (of which twenty or so are 
 available) ; or the Grand Campaign mode, which truly lives up to its title. 
  
  There is also a small multiplayer component, of which we will return to later. In the campaign 
 mode, one chooses a nation; dozens are available, each with varying playing styles befitting the 
 initial location and military make-up. 
  
  The grand campaign spans all of western and central Europe - including the Iberian Peninsula, Italy, 
 and Denmark, along with North Africa, most of Eastern Europe, some of Russia, and western Middle 
 East. In turn-based style, the player will lead their nation to global victory in either the short 
 campaign or the long campaign. In the short campaign, the player is charged with destroying one 
 or two opposing nations and capturing a small amount of territory (usually fifteen regions) , and 
 normally lasts six-to-ten hours. The long campaign involves capturing one or two specific regions 
 (such as Jerusalem or Rome) , and a large amount of territory (usually forty-five regions) , and 
 normally lasts fifteen-to-thirty hours. During the Grand Campaign, the player moves armies of differing 
 make up across the medieval lands, entering the previously described battle phase when they engage 
 enemy armies or towns. Towns and castles are the basis of territory in the campaign; towns provide 
 money while castles provide advanced troops. 
  
  To capture territory, one must siege a town, thus entering a battle phase in which the player maneuvers 
 siege weapons (rams, towers, ladder, trebuchets, catapults and eventually cannons of all sorts) 
 to bring down the walls of the besieged settlement. Troops must the enter the breach, thus commencing 
 a battle that also gives room for all kinds of tactical improvisation. 
  
  Joining armies in the grand campaign are merchants, diplomats, assassins, spies, and princesses, 
 all of which have some strategic value. Merchants are somewhat useless; they can be positioned 
 over a resource and they will generate a small amount of "florins" (the global currency, in this 
 case) until they die of age or are bankrupted by an opposing merchant. Diplomats are necessary; 
 they, unsurprisingly, negotiate with other nations, to appeal ceasefires, alliances, or all manner 
 of territory-bartering and bribing. Assassins assassinate; they can be useful, but are not all 
 that necessary. Spies spy; these are as useless as merchants, as anyone can see into an enemy army 
 or town given proximity. Princesses can be used as diplomats, or marry another nation's prince 
 to cement an alliance. All campaign units, including generals, evolve in an RPG-like fashion. A 
 general who sieges often will gain a siege instructor, and have a bonus to command while a sieging. 
 A priest that executes heretics may be joined by a witchhunter, and will become more pious. A prince 
 that kills prisoners and burns towns will be awarded dread, and may soon have an executor following 
 in his wake. A general you use on the forefront will soon become a great commander given many victories; 
 a governor you leave at the capital will soon wallow in laziness, becoming corrupt and disillusioned.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: thorn994
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 12, 2008 7:45 am PT
Review:  Medieval 2 Total War is one of the most fun and exciting games that has come out to this date. 
 With its variety of factions and options, the spectacular graphics, amazing battles, Medieval 2 
 is a game worth buying. At first with an integrated graphics card, the details weren't that great, 
 but after getting a better graphics card it looked AMAZING. Its kinda a system hog, but if you 
 have the right computer, this game looks awesome. The battles are hard and the AI normally are 
 pretty clever about both seiging and defending. The turn by turn playing blends really well with 
 the real time stratagy. This is a unique game that should be worth looking into. The expansion 
 is kind of big, but if you like this game, it's really worth buying also. You really cant find 
 another game like this, and is really worth looking into and if possible, buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aXemuderer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 25, 2008 10:37 pm PT
Review:  When I first got this game I loved it, i left it for a while and came back, to this day it doesn't 
 disappoint me. There may be room for improvement, but I believe CA made it that way, so people 
 would be encouraged to mod the game and make it even better. I recommend that if you play Med 2 
 that you try the mod Deus lo Vult, which deletes some of the color coding of the vanilla game and 
 adds new scripts, such as a garrison script. The best thing about the game though is the campaing 
 itself, as the game says it lets you take control of one faction through 500 years of medieval 
 war, and your goal? Why its to conquer the world, but its going to be a challenge, because this 
 time barbarians arent your enemies. 
  
  Pros:
  -Great Campaign
  -Good graphics
  -very easy to mod and add-on
  -each faction has its strengths and weaknesses, which allow the 
 player to exploit them
  
  Cons:
  -could get boring if played too long in one day
  -THE SOLDIERS CANT GET IN STEP
  -some soldiers dont follow orders
  -flaws in historical events 
 and generals armor shouldn't be so nice and shiny 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jecstir
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 21, 2008 11:26 pm PT
Review:  Stronghold 2 is a great continuation of the original. The game is pretty simplistic; the learning 
 curve can be achieved by beginner gamers in less than 2 hours. Mastering the game comes with advanced 
 tactical use of the units within the unique battle interface. 
  The game has a great linear path. The choices and alliances a player makes early in the game determines 
 the way your campaign will unfold. 
  The only drawback I can see in this game comes after hours of gameplay in the campaign. The end-game 
 units are not very rewarding or exciting to use. There is no huge advantage by starting out with 
 anyone, so the game can be fun every time. 
  Replay value I would give an 8 or 9, because it is really a different game each campaign.
  I've 
 been gaming for about 18 yrs, so graphics are not my call to judge (considering what we started 
 out at) . I will say stunning, and improved
  finally, since it is such a slow-paced game at time by taking hours upon hours to complete a campaign 
 fun factor ..... 8... imo if the campaigns ended quicker it would take away though. After replaying 
 it about 5-6 campaigns you just wish you could turn off enemy unit moves like in the original. 
 
  
  but overall I'll give this game a 9.5 for cinematic value, well-rounded countries, and overall 
 improvement over the first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkintrospect1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 16, 2008 12:56 pm PT
Review:  To say that Medieval II is awesome is probably the biggest understatement ever. Period. The game 
 is simply amazing. Graphically, audio wise, player engrossment wise, etc. I've never been so engrossed 
 in a game as I have been with Medieval II.
  
  The only real downside I can think of for this game is that it is a major system hog. I can run 
 it at decent settings but to run it at max requires a pretty solid machine. Not to mention the 
 7.7 Gigs it takes up on your hard drive. Is it worth it though? You bet it is.
  
  If you've never played a Total War game before this is the one to play first. It tells you everything 
 you need to know about via hands on tutorials. There were those in other Total War games but the 
 ones here in Medieval II tell you everything from marching soldiers to the finer points of macro 
 managing your vast empire.
  
  This game comes is simply amazing. If you love RTS' and love great games with historically accurate 
 depictions of times long past, Medieval II Total War is the best thing since sliced bread.
  
  Well maybe since Rome Total War. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: over-j
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 11, 2008 12:34 pm PT
Review:  Love it, but it's just like TW: Rome. Don't you think? They could have come with something greater. 
 They took plenty of time for a new game of the saga see the light.
  What is new? Plenty of units. But nothing really new. Armour, weapons, etc all the same. Siege 
 weapons are a good development. Really cool ones.
  
  The pope. If you don't care about him you will suffer hahaha. I do not like him at all.
  Why 
 they made the game so religious? I know that in that time it was all about religion but i can't 
 stand it. Supposed allies will betray you every time; enemies won't leave you alone.
  
  The gunpowder is the best of the game. 
  Graphics got extremely great. The battles get nusty. 
 Hundreds of dead bodies and horses.
  
  I thank you guys for this addictive game. But i know u can come up with some really new cool stuff
 
  
  Bye gamers of the world =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pako_adrian
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 10, 2008 2:55 pm PT
Review:  From a lot of points of view it`s much much better the it predecessors, but there are 2 major flaws 
 that can not be overlooked. Here is what i mean. Personally i like to command my own armies on the 
 battlefield and do all the tactics ,in very few cases i automatically resolve a battle. Now first 
 huge problem is "the charge problem". Cavalry does not charge not in v1.0 not in v1.2 not in v1.3. For 
 unknown reasons this happens and is very bad for the game play because the main attack of the cavalry 
 is in fact... you guessed it the charge. So cavalry efficiency goes down by say 60%. Second thing: 
 after capturing walls you can not put any of your unit on them. Another very important tactical 
 aspect that goes out the window. Now you might not consider this charge problem as being big or 
 that the wall issue is actually not a problem but rather a way of limiting your assault capabilities 
 in a siege but if you take into consideration it predecessors and the way they tackled these issues 
 you will find that they could have done just a little better here. Now do not get me wrong on this 
 one i like the game, i really do it just a shame that these aspect where overlooked. You might say 
 now that i am crazy for saying that these 2 problems ruin the game but put it like this : a game 
 should firstly be functional then look good feel good etc. It is like owning a car with no stereo. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lilgunney612
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 20, 2008 10:06 am PT
Review:  I have spent many hours on reviews, not just on this site, but many others and i must say this 
 has been a very hard game to review. It is going to be hard putting everything i love and hate 
 about this game into a few paragraphs. That in itself just says how big this game is.
  
  Medieval II: Total War is the fourth game (not including expansions) in the Total War series, The 
 first three were one of a kind for its time period, it was unheard of controlling massive armies 
 in one single map, and controlling vast empires to world domination. Now the Creative Assembly 
 has raised the bar yet again with improved graphics, bigger battles and larger castles to destory 
 (or defend) .
  
  The game takes place between 1000AD and the discovery of The New World, about 1500AD. Yes this 
 means you are able to actually be the first nation to discover the new world and fight against 
 the Mayan Empire for control. This is but a small feature to the new and vast game of Medieval 
 II: Total War. All of the Crusades, Missions from the Pope himself and fights you will be having 
 against your top rival nations will make you forget about this "New World".
  
  The Crusades are not necessarily a new thing in the series, but it is improved slightly. You now 
 receive special Crusader infantry as mercenaries, Varying from mighty Knights Templar to lowly 
 religious fanatics. Due to this, You have a higher chance of units abandoning the Crusade. If a 
 crusade drags on too long, solders will desert the army. this makes it even harder to have a successful 
 Crusade as a lot of the factions you are Crusading against are on the other side of the map.
  
  Another not-so-new feature is the Pope, He acts like the Senate did in Rome: Total war, He 
 gives out missions to you for money, Units and sometimes just a blessing. If you do not like your 
 Pope, You may train a Priest in one of your cities, He may rise through the ranks and become a 
 cardinal, then maybe, if he is holy enough, He may become a Pope. This will give your faction a 
 free ride for a short while so conquer as much as you can.
  
  The "Grand Campaign" as they call is is a vast game, You choose one of 5 factions, England, France, 
 Holy Roman Empire, Spain and Venice, As you progress, You are able to unlock other factions to 
 play as depending on who you Conquer. In my first run through, I picked England due to their simplicity 
 and archers, Every faction has their own strength and weaknesses so choose a faction based on your 
 playing style. That being said, Every faction also has their own playing style, Due to their starting 
 locations The enemies you will be facing will vary from faction to faction. As England, I had to 
 fight France and Spain for control over land. An additional feature to the Campaign is the ability 
 to change a city into a castle, Castles allow for stronger unit types and have greater defences, 
 The only down side is it has a fixed tax rate and limited income, So they are best placed in places 
 near your Enemy.
  
  If you do not wish to start a whole new Campaign and all you want to do is fight a battle, the 
 game also has other game types. Custom Battle, Historical Battle and Quick battle. Custom battle 
 allows you to fully customize a battle to whatever conditions you want, This is a particularly 
 fun feature. Historical battle allows you to choose from a variety of pre-set historically accurate 
 battles along with a brief intro. Quick Battle randomly generates a faction and an army for you 
 to battle. Although the unit A. I on the Battle map, may be a bit lacking, It still allows for a 
 very fun game play and visual experience. 
  
  Overall this is the best Total war game to come out this year, I could not give it a 9.0 due to 
 the lack of A. I in the game but the game is still a game i will be playing until the new Empire: 
 Total War game comes out. Even though the A. I can be lacking at times, The hard difficulty setting 
 can challenge even the most experienced RTS players. I would recommend this game to anyone looking 
 for a solid RTS game and an overall fun experience. Like i said, this was a very hard game to review 
 due to the sheer size of the game, it almost seems like a dozen games in one. It is worth the 30 
 bucks its at right now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jernas
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 18, 2008 6:48 am PT
Review:  Few years back I tried out this mysterious strategy game, called Rome: Total War. After only a 
 few hours I realized that it is one of the best games I've ever seen. Last month I saw a copy of 
 Medieval 2 very cheap, so I bought it. And I think:
  
  First of all, it's very similar to Rome. That's because it uses the same graphics engine. A map 
 of Europe and N. Africa is now a tiny bit wider which is good. The game is settled into the middle 
 ages so at first you can choose between nations such as The Holy Roman Empire, England and several 
 others. When on the map, game plays exactly as Rome, just that now you can operate with merchants, 
 princesses and priests and all of them have their own purpose. There are also real time battles 
 which are now better designed. The game now uses Shader Model 2.0, which makes the battles spectacular.
 
  
  On the other hand, there are a lot of bugs in this game. It also crashes a lot. There are corrupt 
 save games and even with 1.02 patch this game seems unfinished. It is also quite harder than Rome. 
 And things like diseases or floods can be really frustrating.
  
  In it's heart this is a great game, but it really feels unfinished. So try it out only if you have 
 nerves of still. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thebigcheese6_6
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 2, 2008 2:32 am PT
Review:  In my opinion this has got to be one of the most graphically satisfying RTS game out there. The 
 character details are superb even when run on low settings. Each combatant is individually modeled 
 and in battles each person fights as an individual. gone are the days where units float across 
 the screen and slap the opponents, welcome to the future. The game play is immersive yet still sublime. 
 I just cant find fault with this game. Your role follows you commanding you armies across medieval 
 Europe and sets you against adaptive ai which can match your every move. You can rampage across 
 the world building castles or follow the peaceful path and build trading towns to access the global 
 markets. This game is easily one of the best RTS of all time and is the best out now. even better 
 that it is dropping in price. Get a piece of the action and grab yourself a bargain now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sharvie
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 21, 2008 3:05 pm PT
Review:  The Total War franchise has always been one of large scale battles with hundreds on soldiers battling 
 for their lives. Medieval 2 is no different to these past Total War games. It also offers so much 
 more.
  
  The campaign of the game is where you will get the most gameplay out of. Not only is it packed 
 full of stuff to do, but it combines turn-based strategy with epic 3D battles that the franchise 
 has made its own. It does take long to get the used to how the game works. You pick a faction to 
 play as - this could be England, Holy Roman Empire
  or France to begin with, and many more will unlock when you complete the campaign.
  
  You are 
 then thrown into a scale map of Europe, Asia, and eventually, South America. You then take turns 
 moving units around the map, organising your cities and creating units, agents and buildings. This 
 all costs money which has to be carefully administered around your empire. Armies cost money to 
 upkeep, it also costs money to build and create things. Money can be generated through taxation, 
 trade and by occupying more settlements. After your turn your opponents take their move. Creative 
 Assembly have done an excellent job in really making your think, as considerations have to be made 
 with relation to making the Pope happy, for example.
  
  Every aspect of life in the medieval time is taken into consideration. You must focus on tasks 
 from the Pope like a new Holy Crusade to take back the Holy Land, to trading with neighbours and 
 keeping the people in your towns and cities happy. The game really does make you feel like your 
 managing an empire.
  
  The second area of the game is played out through 3D battles where you command your units on a 
 picturesque landscape. If you run a high-end PC then the battle will be all the more smoother and 
 an overall more beautiful experience to watch as you battle it out with your enemies. The controls 
 to you're managing an easy to pick up, and the option to group units together really helps. The 
 3D battles are also a chance to bring out the inner tactician in you. How have to think about how 
 to defeat your enemy: do you outflank them using light combat; or charge in with your heaving infantry 
 for some intense melee and hope for the best. Even if you're not a master tactician, you can skip 
 these battles at the pop-up menu.
  
  The units in Medieval 2 have also change a lot for the better. It is obvious Creative Assembly 
 has done an astounding job making each unit look and feel individual. Each character model is remotely 
 different - each have different faces and even some hold weapons in different hand. It all just 
 makes the gameplay more believable.
  
  The graphics for the game are also stunning. Armour will glisten in the sunlight and every detail 
 has been considered. You will be able to see the medieval cloth pattern your soldiers are wearing. 
 Even the managerial side of the game has improved graphically from previous games. The land is 
 more detailed and you can clearly see things like land degradation on the map.
  
  The game also features and impressive sound track. Each song is expertly crafted which will make 
 you feel relaxed while managing your armies. In contrast, in the 3D battles, the clanging of metal 
 and yelps from soldiers really makes you feel like you're on a battlefield bearing the forefront 
 of combat.
  
  Along with a divine single player experience, the game also features a customisable battle creator 
 where you choose units to use to fight against and also customisable enemy. There are also a few 
 historical battle that you can play with auto-selected units which is pretty fun. The multiplayer 
 side of the game is restricted only to the 3D battles, but with a huge single player campaign, 
 you may not focus too much on the multiplayer. The multiplayer modes are only limited to last man 
 standing and scored resolution, and they support up to eight players where your primary objective 
 is really just to kill as many guys as you can.
  
  You may need a high powered computer to fully appreciate the game and harness its full experience 
 of its beautiful visuals, but the little world you are watching grow and develop will be satisfying 
 to journey through. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmweekes
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 25, 2008 7:52 am PT
Review:  I am quite embarassed that I discovered this game only recently, given how much I enjoyed Rome 
 you would think this would have been on my radar but it slipped past me somehow. Anyway this is 
 by all accounts a fantastic game. If you've ever played a total war game before you know what to 
 expect, epic battles and a genuine feeling of power as your empire expands. The big new thing here 
 is the religion factor, and it is as important to success in M2 as it was to Bush's success in 
 the polls. The pope must be kept happy to be successful here, and this sometimes seems unfair. 
 One particular occasion he demanded that I not invade Vienna so I withdrew my army only for their 
 army to march out of Vienna and invade my city while my army was away. And the pope didn't say 
 sh** to them. By all rights I should have been able to bend him over a chair for allowing one of 
 my major cities to be taken in such an underhand way while I was trying to please him. Probably 
 a return for my real life heathen stylings. Anyway if you have $20 you can't go wrong with M2, 
 unless your computer is old...... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlexMattingly
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 24, 2008 6:57 pm PT
Review:  You can obviously see the effort put forth into making this game, as it blows you away with it's 
 amazing field tactic, smart settlement control, great financial system, and great graphics. I was 
 also impressed by the diplomatic importance this game has with alliances, trade rights, and ceasefires. 
 
  
  This game throws pure tactic at you every which way from battles, to diplomacy. I especially loved 
 the family tree scroll, relations with the pope, and trade agreements between factions that this 
 game has offered. Buying troops and paying upkeep was smart to even out the game financially as 
 well as corruption, harvest, etc. 
  
  I can tell you one thing though, if your a big lover of strategy games then this game is the right 
 game for you... as long as you meet the system requirements of course. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Helloiseeu
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 17, 2008 9:15 pm PT
Review:  Holy crap. I thought Rome Total War couldn't get any better but once I played this for the first 
 time. Holy crap. I was speechless. Speechless. Anywho, where shall' I start? The cutscenes. The 
 graphics for them are so lavish that I find it hard to understand fact from fiction. The factions 
 here are totally awesome! I find myself doin' all different campaigns all over again. Theres everything 
 for factions. Mongols, Indians, Byzantiums, Muslims, and much more. The game's graphics are very 
 good. If you gotta good graphics card. The game doesn't really get boring. Unless, your a huge 
 fan of the other Total War games, like me. The game's music is utterly unsayable. It's that good. 
 I found myself turning off my Breaking Benjamin' to listen to this. The historical battles are 
 also awesome. They included everything from ambushes in the Holy Land, to the battle of Hastings, 
 to fighting of swarms of Aztecs with Conquistoars. The game is very good. I find myself not saying 
 much bad about it but, this....
  
  If you love the Total War series, you might be a little bit dissapointed by this. The game gets, 
 well kinda boring because it sorta seems like Rome total war. Also, the game requires a super good 
 graphics card and is a system hog. I can hardly play custom battles with my ATI Radean 200. But, 
 I've played them before. If your not a HUGE fan of the Total War series, buy this game. If you 
 are a Total War lover buy this game anyways because its very awesome
  
  +graphics
  +addictating
  +tons of mods
  +tons of gameplay
  -system requirments
  -gets boring sometimes, 
 for hardcore total war fans.
  
  -Helloiseeu 
::::::

::::::
UserName: highwayman2000
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 13, 2008 1:10 pm PT
Review:  Since playing the game, I was hoping that it would live up to it predecessor like Rome. My God, 
 it did!
  
  Anyway, I was to start under the England realm, and the expansion into Europe has taken a beating. 
 
  
  God! There are moments when I thought that all is lost - yet a critical battle changes events in 
 a big way - it's has been amazing to experience this.
  
  You also get beautiful tips by a lovely Campaign Advisor to getting a early grip to the game play 
 - ( Not the mention the Battle Advisor as well! )
  
  The software is highly addictive, you can easily think of playing it for only half an hour - Be 
 warned, you may find yourself playing for over six hours.
  
  There is so more in the game with its glorious battle speeches before you even face your foe!
 
  
  The battles are great when its in your favour and when it turns ugly ..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rich639
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 6, 2008 2:41 pm PT
Review:  well all i can say is that ive unstuck myself from my pc long enough to write a review specially 
 for you (aren't you lucky) . To generalize this game (which is hard as this game is too expansive 
 to to cover everything in a sentence) it is extremely addictive. Do you have a hobby? do you like 
 playing outdoors? well if you do please stay away from this thing like it was the black death itself. 
 For one thing the first time you play the campaign mode is in some ways retardedly easy compared 
 to other rts games. 
  
  clever you strokes his beard and sends about 40 men and a hobo to massacre several enemy armies 
 at once before raising taxes and merrily clicks the end turn button. 
  
  but yet when clever you decides to up the difficulty setting to medium you will soon begin to feel 
 a slight jolt. where once you were defeating entire armies with some men and a hobo you are now 
 facing setbacks that will make you tear off that beard in frustration. Have you ever had a large 
 army ready to crush the enemies last stronghold before an inquisitor pops out of nowhere and executes 
 your leader? then to have the remaining 1100 troops rebel? if you do not feel like ever your strategically 
 gifted brain can handle such set backs then might i suggest you steer well clear of the church 
 and build a few churches. 
  
  the combat as well has its own uniqueness that will appeal to clever you (im guessing that if you 
 are reading this that you are a strategy fan) who will most likely have alot of fun stroking his 
 beard (or her luscious locks) and making complex maneuvers with the units. 
  
  you are moving an entire army instead of just a few humble people so this means that the battles 
 can get very hectic indeed. in fact if you have a computer that can also launch space shuttles 
 you can play with 10,000 characters on the screen, which is worth the entry ticket alone. 
  
  so my humble opinion is that this game deserves a nearly perfect core just for the addictiveness. 
 now if you excuse me ive got to take over france (in the game of course) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Drakie_pooh
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 4, 2008 6:18 pm PT
Review:  this game is awsome! I have always loved the total war franchise. i think this game is most fun 
 when you turn the difficulty all the way up along with the AI. if the difficulty is on hard you 
 really have to use your wits and battle tactics to the limit. in this game you can play ffrom multiple 
 factions such as england, france, the holy roman empire (germans) . to unlock another faction you 
 must take that faction over, although some factions arent allowed to be played as in the campaign. 
 there are two different strategy settings the game has. theres the campaign map which is an overview 
 of the medieval world. on this map you can manage settlement or castle, you can manage your armies, 
 or use your armies to engage another faction. the second setting is the battle. in battle it zooms 
 into the actual battlefield. on the battle field its is a bird eye view. you command your troops 
 by fighting in melee, firing arrows or catapults, or charging your calvary. every faction has their 
 leaders. you start of with a king, faction heir, and generals. when the king dies the heir inherits 
 the throne. then he can have a child to inherit the throne again. heirs should not be a worry though. 
 the game also includes alot of historical moments, such as the holy crusades, the mongol invasion, 
 the invention of gun powder and many more. in the crusades you besiege a certain city that the 
 pope requests. when you make a general join the crusade you have a selection of special mercenary 
 units to hire. theres crusader swordsmen, crusader calvary, and a giant cross that your army can 
 carry that boosts the morale of your army in a battle. the sieges in the game are a very cool part 
 of the game. you can command one of your armies to besiege an enemy settlement. while you ave the 
 settlement under seige you can build siege equipment to get inside the castle, there is the battering 
 ram, the siege tower, or the wall ladders. you can also use siege weapons like catapults or trebuchets 
 that you can recruit at any of your castle. this game is great and is a must buy if you like the 
 strategy and medieval genre. i think you can buy it for about thirty bucks from any game store. 
 personally i love the game im always playing it and finding cool mods for it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andy94_hcm
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 24, 2007 9:48 am PT
Review:  This game is an amazing strategy game and it should not be missed
  
  Gameplay:9/10
  ~PROS -- An intelligent game, forcing you to make strategic moves and think before you do anything, cool 
 diplomatic systems, many major factions to choose from.
  ~COMS -- Assassins can cause really big problems and people from the Papal States could really annoy 
 you sometimes
  
  Graphics:9/10
  ~PROS -- Excellent graphics, terrains are detailed and soldiers texture have been worked on by every 
 bit
  ~CONS -- As gamespot said, requires a ''Beefy system'' to run
  
  Sound:10/10
  ~PROS -- Sound effects are good as they do their job, presenting the battles to you and they've done 
 it perfectly. The background music is also medieval influenced and it adds more tension to the battle 
 atmosphere
  ~CONS -- NONE 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ArCHAN6EL
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 20, 2007 3:57 am PT
Review:  The Total War series is one of those games that despite its problems keep things inadmissibly fresh. 
 From start to finish you, as the budding Emperor, King or Sultan are thrust into a grand risk like 
 campaign, tasked with commanding endless (and we MEAN endless) hordes of cheap cannon fodder infantry 
 to venerable Knights in shining armour, engage in flirtatious oft self-satisfying diplomacy and 
 taking up the faith against the heretic and infidel alike. 
  Yes, there are glitches, and at times you wonder how the AI managed to make it into the final release 
 copy of the game. But you'll be so busy maneuvering your armies and taking up Crusades that all 
 these hiccups will seem rather minor to you by comparison. 
  
  SINGLEPLAYER: 
  Singleplayer thrusts you into the vanilla Grand Campaign we've come to expect in most Total War 
 games, essentially sandbox epic RISK like turn based strategy; the single player campaign allows 
 you to plot, scheme, assassinate, build, and recruit. You will learn the tricks of the trade in 
 farming, docking and engineering, commission merchants to trade resources, send spies dressed up 
 as mulberry bushes (yes, truly hilarious) into enemy cities, and watch your 9 star Silent Assassin 
 get himself bitten in the foot by a poisonous snake. 
  Even in defeat, the Singleplayer experience is considerably good. And that's only the tip of the 
 spearhead: You'll start guilds, gain favor with the Pope, execute heretics and yes, launch jihads 
 and crusades. Nothing is vastly changed game-mechanics wise in Medieval II Total War's campaign 
 standard, but the amount of content crammed in will have you doing more and more until you realize 
 your 2 hours late for your school bus or to work. Even beyond the campaign map the battles still 
 inspire the same 'nostalgic' smiles that you felt upon gazing at Rome Total War for the first time. 
 Except now your opponents are not restricted to barbaric rushes and attrition attacks. In fact 
 it is relatively more difficult than your first time go at Rome Total War, as now almost every 
 single nation begins on an equal footing, some even beginning poorly disadvantaged. 
  As such, the campaign is always challenging, even if the battle map AI from time to time ends up 
 barely marching towards you, or running into walls when defending a city square. However the epic 
 scope of the campaign and the glorious feeling of charging an enemy's flank with Lancers for the 
 15th time never gets old, and will have you coming back for more. 
  When you're done with the Grand Campaign, there are a dozen challenging well-narrated historical 
 battles to fight through, and a custom battle mode that lets you pit any armies against each other 
 (Aztecs vs. Turks anyone?) 
  
  MULTIPLAYER: 
  Multiplayer follows a simple 'battle' formula and omits any campaign strategy into the system. 
 You join a server, pick an army, upgrade (much like the custom battle) and fight it out on a plain, 
 plateau, in a forest, desert or the battlements of a citadel, according to the match set-up by 
 the server host. There's always lots of fun to be had seeing 8000 soldiers clash on screen , and 
 the good server provider systems ensure that as long as you've got a steady internet connection 
 you'll be taken care of, overall a very good expansion on the Singleplayer mayhem, though the developers 
 could have spiced it up with some additional Singleplayer campaign elements. 
  
  SOUND: 
  With a score composed by Howard Johns (yes the composer for Lord of the Rings) and a set piece 
 orchestra/choir providing the awe-inspiring victory music, it's hard not to yell "FREEDOMMMMMMMMMMM!!!!" 
 at the top of your voice upon seeing your band of Highland Nobles smash into the English line. 
 The weapons sound suitably beefy, and the thunderous roars of the men as they charge home against 
 the enemy is empowering to say the least 
  The music changes slightly from faction to faction (the biggest difference being between Islamic 
 and European factions) and the solemn tones and minstrel soothing when on the campaign map help 
 one be at peace and decide best how to rob his allies and then stab them in the back.
  Overall a very well though out musical arrangement that complements the highs and lows of the game 
 perfectly. 
  
  VISUAL: 
  There is no other strategy game as pretty as Medieval II: Total War, period. With the close exception 
 of Company of Heroes, Medieval II Total War is a game without visual peer. Especially since the 
 game engine renders thousands of individualized soldiers all at once in such a deeply detailed 
 manner. Each soldier has an individual face, checks his weapons, moves about and displays different 
 pageantry well enough to distinguish them from one another but still keep themselves unified as 
 one group. That and the kill animations are infinitely satisfying; one never gets tired of seeing 
 a Zweihanders cut some poor lad on the ground into two clean chunks. 
  
  OVERALL:
  Overall there is nothing wrong with Medieval II Total War, it's a brilliant game, and testament 
 to the 'shine and polish' methodology employed at Creative Assembly. However since it does not're-invent' 
 strategy like a few recent titles, and is an expansion on the basic Rome: Total War formula, it 
 is not the jaw-dropping fixture that many people feel Company of Heroes or World in Conflict is. 
 However if you love 'epic' strategy or are a Total War fan, this is the logical next step /8.5 
 out of 10
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bahammut125
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 14, 2007 9:48 am PT
Review:  Sure, it may not be the Roman Empire, but the politics of Europe during the Dark Ages on were still 
 pretty involved. This game is basically an extended version of the first, adding new factions, 
 improving the graphics, and adding some new units.
  
  One of the features that interested me was the new Papacy features for the Catholic factions. The 
 College of Cardinals was an interesting addition, and helped to gain favor with the Pope, another 
 new feature. But perhaps the most interesting thing of all was the Crusading system, in which you 
 lost favor if you did not join the Crusades. However, Crusading armies lose units due to desertion, 
 and this can happen rapidly sometimes even if you are heading towards your target, which can be 
 annoying.
  
  All in all, good game, not the greatest of the series though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mdriscool
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 12, 2007 11:48 am PT
Review:  This game is very fun and is so addictive you will sit there for hours on end just playing it. 
 There are a few bad feuters though such as it can be very slow like when you go through the other 
 teams and there are a few long loading screens but nothing to bad.
  I would recomend this game though just because the amount of open and realisitic gameplay there 
 is.
  Must buy if your a stratergy game fan! Proberbly better than command and conquer but the best feuture 
 about this game is that on other games you can be a bit restricted but on this you can roam freely 
 and sdo what you want when you want. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: epilectichobo18
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 11, 2007 11:49 am PT
Review:  This game looks just like Rome: Total War, I dont know it they are related or not but since they 
 both have "Total War" in their title, and are both basicly the same exact game, with only a few 
 (fairly small) changes. If you like RTS games, then you will love this one. I have spent hours 
 playing this, and it is a little better than Rome: Total War and has a little more, but not enough 
 to make it seem like a whole new game.
  
  Overall: 1.5 Thumbs Up, Was pretty good, but could have been a little better. But if you have the 
 money, Then buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: magicguy17
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 5, 2007 2:02 pm PT
Review:  this game has got to be my favorite in the total war series however there some things that need 
 to be fixed like assassins. The games assassins are almost utterly useless and if they do kill 
 one of the bad guys captains or then another one appears out of thin air. the spies are totally 
 useless. and that was one of the thins that I was looking froward to. the diplomatic part of the 
 game has improved a huge amount since medieval 1. the games audio is one of the best that I have 
 ever seen.... or should I say heard? all in all this is a great game and I highly recommend it 
 to any RTS fan. the biggest problem is that the espionage part of the game is laking. still a great 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blixs
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 28, 2007 7:03 pm PT
Review:  What can I say about this game other than the fact that it's utter garbage. This latest installment 
 of the Total War series game truly shows how far the franchise has degenerated from a respectable 
 and fun strategy game, to a commercial cash-cow that's all about pizazz. There are those who say 
 that I focus more on the negatives than the positives, but I can definitely guarantee you that 
 the negatives outweigh the positives.
  
  The Campaign map is similar to that of it's predecessor, Rome, but the settlements allow you the 
 option to build not just cities, but also castles. Cities are the financial hub of your growing 
 empire, but unlike Rome, cities can only provide you cheap and unreliable troops, however castles 
 allow the creation of better military units, but produce little income compared to cities. This 
 system is often very frustrating especially with an expanded map which adds more labor to the tedious 
 micromanagement. The movement of armies have also been decreased in the game, requiring a considerable 
 amount of turns to get from point A to B. At this time most people would be rolling their eyes 
 in frustration and thinking to themselves, why am I still playing this game?
  
  The RT part of the game is no better. The combat system is ridiculously buggy. The improve graphics 
 has added realism to the fight, but with such a focus on looks, the designers have neglected the 
 game play. For example, Armored Cavalry could easily mow down a group of spearmen or pikemen, even 
 though historically cavalry has never stood a chance against a wall of spears/pikes. Also when 
 you send units to the fight, only the front will do any actual fighting, while the rest of the 
 units body will stand at the back, watching the carnage from the safety of the human wall created 
 by the dead bodies of their comrades. A notable bug is the 'Two handed bug' which forces a unit 
 that fights with a two handed weapon, to revert to their secondary weapons, virtually making two-handed 
 swordsmen, axemen, and pikemen virtually useless in the field of battle. 
  
  The diplomacy system of the game is still as bad as Romes, the enemy faction, even as they are 
 taking a savage beating, will make ridiculous demands just for a ceasefire, such as the return 
 of all their captured territories, large sum of gold, or they will refuse to negotiate outright 
 even at the face of complete annihilation. 
  
  My advice to people who are considering purchasing this game, is to make better use of that $50. 
 You should either rent or borrow the game, but it's a major "DO NOT BUY". If you're look for a 
 great Total War game, try Rome, but even better, try the old Medieval, then compare that one to 
 this, and you'll see the huge difference in gameplay, which I can guarantee you is a lot better. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anofalye
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 27, 2007 6:42 pm PT
Review:  This game show the typical syndroms which plagues most GBT games (the strategic map is GBT, the 
 tactical battles are RT) .
  
  - Individually each new GBT feature is an improvement, it is better. However, it lack an overall 
 view. The game became overly complex without adding that much. Lack of vision.
  
  - Micromanagement. Sure, you can let the computer do everything, just as in the 1st... but the idea 
 behind this is to allow the computer to do what you don't like, not to do what you like but can't 
 because the map is getting to big.
  
  - In interview, the devs openly dislike the GBT aspect of the game. There is nothing wrong with 
 promoting the RT battles, but if they don't like the GBT aspects, maybe someone else should have 
 design them! This will reflect in many aspects. You just feel it is complex, heavy, complete, but 
 done as a chore, not out of love... and this just show in the game.
  
  All in all, stick with Medieval Total War 1 (adds Viking, even if nowhere a great expansion, it 
 adds nicely whatever little it does) ; don't bother with this game or with Rome. Individual features 
 may be good, but as a whole, they are heavy, uninspiring, boring.
  
  Complexity for the sake of complexity can't be good.
  
  
 
  
  THIS REVIEW IS ABOUT THE GBT STRATEGICAL MAP/GAME, I didn't even consider the RT tactical battles, 
 since I didn't play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aleperez75
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 26, 2007 4:16 pm PT
Review:  Danger! Super addictive game this is! This has been the favorite strategy that I have played. Of 
 course, I never played world craft but I rather play the type of games related to ancient times.
 
  
  This games has very good visuals. The battles are very realistic. You are really in control of 
 the empire that you are governing. It get tough when your citizens are unhappy and when your general 
 betray you. The nice and different thing from Rome is that in this game there are guilds, witches, 
 heretics, Muslims that you need to prevent from converting your people to their religion. Religion 
 is a big deal in this game. All combined makes this game a jewel.
  
  
  It is a very well thought game. I highly recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lucille_du_Aram
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 9:59 am PT
Review:  It begins with a mismatched band of tired peasants and levies, armed with basic spears and knives, 
 whilst alongside them ride grim knights, lances in hand. 
  
  Then it becomes men marching across deserts, red crosses embellishing their otherwise plain shields 
 whilst crusader knights ride to do battle with the infidel. 
  
  Then finally, rows of disciplined, professional soldiers march, flanked by glorious, shining knights 
 and men with newfangled muskets.
  
  Medieval 2: Total War's time frame spans just under 500 years, during which it manages to cram 
 in the last days of the Dark Ages, the Crusades, the Mongolian Invasion, the Hundred Years War, 
 the rise of the Professional Military, the discovery of the New World, the Fall of the Byzantine 
 Empire, the beginning of the end of the Feudal society and almost manages to incorporate the Protestant 
 Reformation with a reference to Martin Luther. War goes hand in hand with diplomacy and economy 
 as players build their empires over the corpses of their enemies. It's a dark, messy sort of world, 
 but it's a world that Creative Assembly have fleshed out greatly. Rarely have so many options been 
 available in a game set in the Middle Ages. The battles promise a cinematic experience, and delivers 
 in so many ways, from sieges to cavalry charges to the volleys of archers. 
  
  It's very easy to become addicted to Medieval 2, which is fortunate, because M2 is, in some way, 
 a sequel to two Total War games: Medieval: Total War and Rome: Total War, and the game can be seen 
 as an improvement on both of them. Remember in Medieval 1, how quickly you could carve a neighbour 
 up if you had enough troops? The Rome-style 3d Map means that the bizarre blitzkrieg Madrid-to-Moscow 
 rush is a thing of the past. Remember the Clone Armies of Rome? Medieval 2's graphics engine solves 
 that problem- everyone looks unique. Armour upgrades can be seen on the recipient units, and now 
 there's a marked difference between the raw recruited levy spearman and the levy spearman now wearing 
 far more armour- it makes one feel that the army is evolving.
  
  Medieval 2's a strong game, but it has its faults- the system requirements are quite large, for 
 example, and bugs appear at the worst times. Diplomacy is of particular annoyance to me. It's understandable 
 when the 2-province nation attacks your 3-province nation despite being allied- after all, betrayal 
 is a part of diplomacy- but when that same 2-province nation attacks your 35-province nation by 
 something as petty as blockading one of your ports, it gets old fast. The AI can be pretty weak 
 in other areas, too, such as placing the General's unit in front of 3 units of Crossbowmen and 
 not moving him out of the way of the withering crossbow fire, but on the other hand, it's not like 
 the AI wastes any time storming a city or castle. 
  
  
  The game is fairly easy to learn, though far harder to master. Old hands at the Total War series 
 will have an easier go at it, especially if they've played both M1 and R: TW. Whilst a player learns 
 fairly quickly from the helpful tutorial and advisors that smashing cavalry directly into a unit 
 of pikes is a bad idea, deciding what nation to attack and which general and units to send is a 
 somewhat more difficult affair.
  
  All in all, Medieval 2 has earned its stripes, and has the greatness to be remembered for ages. 
 A 'peaceful' RTS/TS gamer will not flourish as they might in a game of Civilization, but for those 
 who dream of conquering the Medieval world, this is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: necbone
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 18, 2007 3:46 am PT
Review:  If you love Rome Total War, then this will rock your world too then... so much fun, even for it's 
 flaws. I play the game alittle different compared to other people; I only play on the campaign 
 map and autofight ALL my battles, and I luv that. I never use the real time battle simulator... 
 It's a good game if you like strategy games, GO BUY IT!! 
  
  Needs better diplomacy.... Only thing holding back this game is the sloppyness of the diplomacy 
 system. I had to learn how to work with the diplomacy of the game, by not being so aggressive and 
 playing with the simple minded AI 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killerzombieman
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 14, 2007 6:06 pm PT
Review:  This game as i said before is just amazing.. I've never seen more strategy used in a game, the 
 graphics are probably the best i've seen for a strategy game, the battles are EPIC and the music 
 is just perfect.
  
  Theirs 2 reasons why I dont give this game a perfect 10. 1 it's not user friendly, most people 
 who haven't played it's predessecors will have a difficult time their first time playing it. IT's 
 a complicated game. Number 2 is, you need a really good computer to play this game on it's full 
 settings, and you probably don't want to play this game if you can't play it on full settings. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AtillaTheHun
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 10, 2007 8:05 am PT
Review:  Right medieval total war is a good game with slight jack ups as alot of people say.
  
  Apart from only having about 4-5 factions to start of as unless you edit it, then you can have 
 most of them, muslim/christian factions.
  
  The good shit: The game has good enough graphics to impress you a lil bit, 
  you can have alot 
 of units atleast over 5000+ units fightin at once if you got a strong enough computer,
  You can choose to be a Catholic a Muslim and an Othodox christian.
  all of the factions all in 
 1 you get to use the Moors = muslim, Turks = muslim
  scottish = christian, english = christian, spanish people (2 factions = christian)
  the holy 
 roman empire witch is actually german for some reason -_- they christian aswel, you get to be Mother 
 Russia! hehehe, venice, hungary, egypt
  and so on i wont spoil the other christian factions you get to use.
  Units: when they all bummin 
 each other in the field they do their own special execution moves but you gotta zoom in and wait 
 till the enemy actually dies!.
  Plenty of units for you to use loads of buildings for you to spend half of your day buildin and 
 buildin, good news for you cheaters who cant play proper! you can actually use cheats and their 
 wont be no mess ups! :D.
  
  The bad shit: Right heres to let you down hehehe,
  the game does give you some proper bitch slaps by either messing up your units so you cant either 
 use them again or they will appear but you wont beable to click on them and use them sadly -_-.
 
  right! if you dont edit the game file you wont get to use all of the factions ( well most of them) 
 witch is kinda stupid because they should have just let you unlock every faction on their, For 
 the fans of the Great Khan, yes you get to see him in action but.... you dont get to use him nor 
 use his people.... yes it is true you cant use the mongols, thats the most horrid thing this game 
 has is you cant use the greatest people on the planet who almost banged the entire world. Quite 
 stupid if you ask me the good thing is it actually knows the history genghis khan actually did 
 convert to islam because he new it is the way to cleanliness and long living of good life hehehehehe.
 
  to bad you cant be everyone in the world aye, china, japan, mongolia blah blah blah. you guys 
 should have made the game like civilization 4 and invite every race their exists today!!!.
  
  all over tho the game has some enjoyment the muslims can call a jihad and the christians can 
 get the pope of the Papal States to call a crusade aganst anyone ( mainly muslim states ) so you 
 muslim factions keep buildin yo armies hehehe.
  
  the actors sound pretty good as if they were actually in that type of year,
  aint no mess ups 
 with that and they dont squeek like they did in rome total war.
  
  its a petty you didnt put the huns or any of the important type of people the world had ever seen, 
 even tho the huns were in roman times but the holy roman empire wasnt german so why not mess anything 
 else up?.
  
  even tho quater of the game is a complete failure the rest of it is all good, i give a good comment 
 for the guys who made this game, but next time you guys decide to make a game do us all a favor 
 and actually allow factions to choose a religion and invite every country who lives today!!!!.
 
  
  Thank you!
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nryan7991
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 8, 2007 2:27 pm PT
Review:  Medieval 2 total war is one of the best games i ve ever played on pc. It is a very realistic environment 
 and historical. Yet you can rewrite history in campaign mode or historical battle mode. If you 
 can't stand  games then don't buy m2tw. It is a great game 
 that composes of 21 PLAYABLE factions. I will name as many as Ican off the bat.  
  Roman Empire [Germany] , Poland, Denmark, Rebels. 
 PLEASE make sure your pc meets system requirements or it will seem like a grade A scam. please 
 try it out though. A great friend/ player/ football player,
  Nick Nick Nick Nick Nick Nick Nick Nick Nick Nick Nick Nick Nick Nick Nick 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raps123
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 6, 2007 11:16 pm PT
Review:  MEDIEVIL II is a great game but there are some important things to fix like diplomacy! it's unrealistic 
 that when you're the top dog and the AI's should want you as an allie rather than attack you all 
 the time!
  
  as for assasins - useless - waste of money - but the ai's seem to wipe out all youre generals though 
 !
  
  i know this is game for war but war should be initiated inteligently!
  please sort out diplomacy, assasins,
  
  aslo maybe it would be really awseome if trade could 
 be made more involved- for example something like imperilism / civilisation etc
  this would force ai's to either trade with you or if you are a weak nation attack you depending 
 o the resources you have! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crows_bow
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 4, 2007 6:39 am PT
Review:  I bought a new computer last year for about 800$, and I was thrilled. I got it for the single purpose 
 of playing games, and the very first game I bought for it was none other than Medieval II Total 
 War. I've never seen a game so epic, despite being a game that brings my FPS to its knees. Graphics-9-This 
 game, even a year after its release, is still very much a kick in the crotch for most mid-range 
 computers, simply because of the power needed to display thousands upon thousands of highly detailed 
 troops, each animated individually and controlled by AI. Scary. Sound-9-I noticed it right away, 
 the very first time I played. This game has the best audio i've heard in any game. Every footstep, 
 every clash of a sword, every arrow whistling through the sky, can be heard clearly, and since 
 there's so much happening on the battlefield at all times, it's like an orchestra at your fingertips. 
 Gameplay-8- This is where the game shines, but also where some of the flaws and imperfections are 
 shown. Generally speaking, it's exciting, and stimulating, even if it may be a little complicated 
 to newcomers (I'm not a huge RTS gamer) . However, Pathfinding is terrible at times, sometimes even 
 deciding a battle. Occasionally, your troops won't pay any attention to your orders at all, and 
 even go in the opposite direction of where to you tell them to go. Other than that, it's great, 
 and will certainly rip from you many many hours of your life.
  
  Conclusion-I love this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IceBoxhit
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 1, 2007 7:49 am PT
Review:  If you don`t know TW (Total War) , then you don`t know anything about strategy games. RTS games 
 like CC Generals or Warcraft 3 are nothing compared to Medieval 2: TW. Why? Because this game is 
 deeper then any-other. You can assassinate, conquer, besiege, starve to death and so on. Medieval 
 2 gives you this feeling of power without overwhelming you with micromanagement.
  The graphics looks amazing sharp but realistic. If you have a high-end PC it will be like watching 
 a Blockbuster Movie every-time you enter a battlefield.
  The battlefields don`t look the same, they look like real world copies, for example: If you are 
 fighting in Jeruzalem then there is sand, muslim music plays and so on, but if you are fighting 
 in England, then you have nice green fields with some european music. The weather is changing dynamical, 
 so you have to prepare for fog (archers don`t see well in fog) , rain and so on. To really see how 
 amazing this game is you have to play it! So don`t waste your time and go buy Medieval 2: TW, and 
 see for yourself!
  P. S. A dead enemy, is a good enemy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cbealo
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 29, 2007 6:25 pm PT
Review:  This is about as close to a perfect RTS computer game as you'll get. Great graphics; excellent 
 side stories and characters; immersive gameplay; and great combination of RTS battles and resource 
 building. The battle scenes are superb and movie-like, with the exceptional bonus of interacting 
 and making them go the way you want. The different geographical settings for the battles are superb, 
 as are the changing weather conditions from fighting in bright summer to heavy snow to driving 
 rain in the Scottish Highlands. I have played this game now for 40 hours and am totally hooked. 
 The historical accuracy adds to the interest, as does the great Aussie humour in the failed spy 
 incursions and assassination attempts. 10 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LittleDuck
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 24, 2007 3:24 am PT
Review:  I have played shogun, medieval, rome and medieval 2. This one, I was half expecting to be just 
 a shadow of medieval 1 with rome layout and on the tin, it does look like that. But give it a chance 
 and this game will blow your head off. Let me explain it in the magnificent way i seem to get no 
 where.
  
  In medieval 1 you were given a wide variety of factions to play, but you always felt a bit distant 
 from the field of battle. The screen was set out as a board game, sort of and the battles, to be 
 fair, all happened on the same fields. Outside the battles, there was very little to do and the 
 only real objective was conquer.
  
  Medieval 2 on the other hand is unbelievable. First off the character design. This has been a big 
 gloating point for the total war franchise, where every character is uniquely animated (yet all 
 the british have the exact same faces and beards. hmmm) and all the armour, although limited to 
 about 3 varaties per unit, all look stunning in a group. People die when they actually are hit 
 instead of from 3 feet away and arrows and ammo are just beautiful to watch. As for the battles, 
 well I generally found the computer a bit too easy to beat. It never placed any real challenge 
 on medium or hard. A certain level of thinking and timing and you can organise 50 men to take down 
 500. For real challenges you do need the game of very hard Ai in battles and then they become the 
 crafty -insert word i'm probably not allowed to use- that is a challenge. Set out a flank and they'll 
 stop it, shoot them with archers, they'll either shoot back or run you with calvary (or both) . 
 The game thinks and it is actually a challenge to win battles instead of a white wash.
  
  Then theres the actual field. To be honest the word  
 barely even begins to describe it. You'll be winning the war on this screen, much rather than the 
 battle. Here is where you build manage and plan your empire and in what style. There are two main 
 places, castles and towns. They both have pros and cons, towns allow diplomats and priests and 
 assasins and all other varieties of warfield tech to be built. Castles allow you to drag out the 
 hardcore units in battle. But the agents in towns are invaluable. A merchant for instance will 
 sit on a source of income and generate that little bit of extra cash you might need. Bishops can 
 turn entire cities on their heads with conversions (and later cardinals) and diplomats can make 
 and break entire empires with just a few sweet words. To be honest there isn't a single bit of 
 this game which won't help you toward your goal of europe and later some of america. But there 
 are a few little drawbacks. In later years when you have a massive empire, you find alot of the 
 time will be spent managing your many borders. If you don't do this right, it's bye bye to you. 
 The AI rarelly hold alligances highly. Infact they only do in higher difficulties and they still 
 aren't too helpful and finally the game is a tad in favour of christians. There are about 7 or 
 8 christian factions and 6 muslim and orthadox. To be honest a really great game I feel would have 
 increased the number of muslim and orthadox factions but oh well, I'm not in the industry am I? 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RAPPTOR87
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 20, 2007 2:25 am PT
Review:  hello this is my first review for game such this in the gamespot do to he amazing game that i had 
 plan over the last 2 monthes this mighty epic game got me mad for the graphical effects and the 
 widely options of the game but it got more boring to last steps of the game do to lack of a story 
 line but in the end this game is one of the best game that i ever seen and play it one of the best 
 game from the total war series and i intspate the empires total war and i asome that it will be 
 much more better greater and more amazing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: numbersss101
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 18, 2007 7:42 am PT
Review:  Medieval 2 total war is the fourth game of the total war series. This game is more or less like 
 Rome total war but with more faction and different units.
  
  Graphics: There are awesome! No argue for that! 10/10
  AI ( artificial intelligent) : This is where 
 the game producer got it REALLY wrong!
  First thing first. Even though some times AI are pretty smart, during siege battles they're quite 
 dumb. When I was defending, I notice the enemy had an artillery so I took out my own artillery 
 and shot it. Took at least 3-5minutes to destroy it and my gate was wide open! They didn't move 
 at all! They just stand they acting like dolls. So.... overall 5.5/10
  Sound: The sounds are great. That's bout it! 10/10
  
  But still even for the bad AI is still 
 a great game to play I recommend every who loves RTS/RTT games to play this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ultra-Fatality
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 10, 2008 3:26 pm PT
Review:  In Medieval 2 total war you have to start of as one of 5 European factions (Englan, France, The 
 Holy roman empire, Venice and Spain) . The map in this game is a zoomed out map of the whole of 
 Europe and the Middle East (including North Africa) , you start off with a handful of cities and 
 are required to upgrade your armies economies e. t. c and expand, there is diplomacy in this game 
 however the diplomacy A. I isn't that great and is sometimes downright frustrating (They dont act 
 logically e. g you are destroying them and taking over all of their lands yet they refuse to make 
 a ceasefire with you) . The battle A. I is better than the diplomacy A. I yet even the battle A. I 
 sometimes acts ilogically (e. g they attack your city and when you fight the battle on the map they 
 wait for you to attack them even though they are besieging your city!) The factions in this game 
 are balanced, they all have their strengths and weaknesses so playing with different factions will 
 always give you a different experience (there are around 20 factions in this game) , my favourite 
 European faction is England and my favourite Middle Eastern faction Turkey. In this game there 
 are two religions, Christianity and Islam, the Middle Eastern factions are Muslim and the European 
 factions are Christian, religion plays an important role in this game you recruit Priests and Imams 
 and try to spread your religion. If your conquered subjects are from another religion they wont 
 be so happy with you ruling them so you have to build Mosques or Churches and convert the locals 
 to your own religion, its not necessary, but it certainly makes life easier for you.
  
  In this game there is a short campaign and a long campaign, in the short campaign you have to control 
 15 regions and eliminate the two factions closest to you within a certain time limit, the long 
 campaign requires you to hold 45 regions within a certain time limit but you are not required to 
 eliminate any factions. That saying the game is challenging even on easy difficulty as the A. I 
 are persistent and will keep attacking you even if you are far stronger than they are and the more 
 regions you control the more you will get attacked as your empire will become larger and you will 
 be closer to many hostile factions.
  
  The graphics in this game are amazing but they are quite demanding on high settings, they arent 
 too much for my PC but even though i have a decent rig it sometimes does slow down a little when 
 there are thousands of units on the screen battling it out. The sound is also very good and each 
 faction has its own accent depending on the region and location but speaks english.
  
  This game is great but gets dull eventually due to the lack of a real story or even objectives. 
 The games missions are lame and not really objectives more like distractions. After playing this 
 game for a game for around 250 turns it will get quite dull. Basically the only objective in this 
 game is take over the world, which is no easy task by all means, especially with the appearance 
 of the Mighty Mongols and the Troublesome Timurids in the Middle East.
  
  My final thoughts are, if you are interested in RTS's get this game if you are not you should give 
 it a go too. However dont expect to play this game for more than a month or two. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arsenalrvbest
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 15, 2007 10:53 am PT
Review:  I remember so many long years ago when there was a TV programme which was based around taking a 
 load of men and ordering them what to do on the battlefield and seeing if the team could win. It 
 was actually interesting to watch. It must have been because I have the worst memory ever and I 
 can still remember that one programme. So when I heard that there were games such as this already 
 on the market, I decided it was time I slaughtered some men. Luckily, Medieval 2 had just started 
 being sold and I got a copy ready for some blood filled action. I was thoroughly impressed. The 
 battles are fun and sometimes quite challenging when you are outnumbered. The units look amazing 
 and they fight well although I didn'tlike how every time I tried to kill the leader of a country, 
 he just ran away. Building up an empire is difficult what with rebels and it was impossible to 
 stay on the right side of the Pope. Eventually, I did complete the game and thoroughly enjoyed 
 it along the way. The battles are tense and once you got some better units, it is quite easy. There 
 were some minor flaws such as the fact that you could completely kill an army with crossbowmen 
 because they would just stand there as they got fired at. Also, my assassins always died after 
 failing miserably at killing anybody. I'm considering Kingdoms, but there's so many other good 
 games out at the moment, it will be difficult to choose. Great game. 'Retreat Kingdom of France' 
 and my men fled to the hills thinking we were losing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Unkillable
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 10, 2007 9:05 am PT
Review:  Medieval II is all about the armies, to say the least. In campaign mode you try to become the strongest 
 faction, or if you want there's also a short campaign mode. The most fun about this game is in 
 the battles, you can command up to thousands of men and battle it out for total control. There 
 are also sieges which can go either way, along with a lot of units to give the game a more realistic 
 feel. The biggest disappointment is the lack of Naval battles, something they're going to have 
 to fix.... Now, there is a campaign map where you can manage your settlements, which includes construction, 
 managing taxes, training / retraining troops. There are also spies, diplomats, and assassins you 
 can use to take out other generals, diplomats, or go and sabotage your rivals by destroying a building 
 that's important. There are also priests, which relates to religion and affects your settlements 
 loyalty. And then there's the pope.... The papal elections are very important, and can be orchestrated 
 by a faction, just remember to take out the competition... ^^ The pope can also intervene on your 
 part or call crusades to foreign lands, and if you helped put the pope to power, ^^ he can help 
 you out. However, the pope can become a thorn in your side if you want to go and eradicate a faction 
 completely... He can threaten to excommunicate you, which means you're on your own and all Christian 
 factions can go after you without fear from the pope's intervention. That's if you listen to him, 
 you don't have to... ^^ Why not dispatch him and put your own man on the seat? Medieval II Total 
 War mixes in real-time battles with some city managing that'll keep you on your feet for a LONG 
 time. However, the campaign could be harder but you can never tell when special events come to 
 throw a wrench at you (like a whole Mongol army upon your doorstep) . This game also has some beautiful 
 graphics that shows the iconic stone walls of a castle to a dry, arid desert. It may not be the 
 best, but it's worth a try. I recommend it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: september_basic
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 8, 2007 10:19 pm PT
Review:  This game, Medieval 2 Total War, seems like a flawed modification of a great game. First of all, 
 the graphics and music are good. The battles are marked by foolish decisions on behalf of the AI 
 computer player. The campaign map is also poorly wrought: there should be more cities for each 
 faction and more accurate movement per turn. Every turn supposedly takes two years: in this time, 
 some characters age two years others age one year. Armies should be able to move further in two 
 years, buildings should take less time, and population growth is really weird considering the time 
 length.
  
  Creative Assembly claimed that diplomatic AI would be improved but it's still a wreck. About the 
 only good thing about diplomatic AI is Papal faction interaction. Non-factive cities (called rebels) 
 still cannot be traded with nor can they become subservient to a stronger faction as did happen 
 in real history.
  
  On the saddest note, everything fun and interesting about Medieval 1 has been discarded. Inquisitors 
 are only responsive to Papal faction orders, spies can no longer help clean up weak links in ones 
 own faction, and assaassins are almost useless.
  
  While the game is still superior in basic gameplay features and more fun than real time strategy 
 games, it plays as if redesigned by morons. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: templargunman
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 26, 2007 7:44 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing amounts of fun, I play mostly campaign, I love the selection of countries 
 to choose from, and how each is massively unique. Not only are units and skins different, there 
 are different buildings for each race, like printing presses and hospitals, that only certain cultures 
 can build. The epic scale of lands and cultures to interact with and the beautiful battles with 
 gleaming armor and beautiful landscapes. The game is something that lasts me forever, I can play 
 the campaign for a few days straight, and maybe even start a new one, or I can just set up battles 
 with extremely powerful armies, or even just make it a slaughterhouse. This game allows the player 
 hours upon hours of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lch867
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 22, 2007 1:38 pm PT
Review:  This game just blows all other strategy games out of the water. There's justs so many things you 
 can do. The battles look so much better than Rome Total War, and theres a bunch of new options 
 for the campaign. Graphics have improved exponentially, the units now have individual people fighting 
 other individual people from the enemy. Its just awesome seeing thousands of units on screen doing 
 this at once. There's a bit more micromanaging, but thats really easy to overlook, seeing as how 
 the rest of the game is just amazing. It can take a long time to play the full campaign, but it's 
 so fun you won't notice the time pass. So you should go out and get it, like now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swat1913
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 15, 2007 3:01 pm PT
Review:  The graphics are very good however they can lead to problems like playing this for to long can 
 sometimes make your computer overheat and if you have too many men on a battle it laggs like hell. 
 Apart from that though it is a great game the battles are strategy based just like rome total war 
 none of the better unit wins crap or who has the most men wins crap also god damn i hate that in 
 RTS's. Anyway the campaigns are incredibly detailed in almost every way but there are some problems 
 with retarded AI like diplomats just staying in the one bloody spot for no reason at all until 
 they die of old age. The multiplayer is great as long as your computer is good also otherwise it 
 laggs. There is a lot of performance problems with this i recommend you get Rome total war instead 
 although in the end the choice is up to you. In conclusion only get this if you have a really good 
 computer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Echi-man
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 15, 2007 5:55 am PT
Review:  Been almost a year playing this game, but it still addictive. Love it when you see, how your heavy 
 cavalry trample your enemy infantry or how your siege engine destroying your enemy walls. Of course 
 you still might want to download some of the mods out there, to adjust your own taste of medieval 
 world. It's range from the one that got more province to the better AI settings, and if you like, 
 you can adjust it some of the mod setting by yourself (your own personal touch) .
  And if those works as you expected to, it gave you certain satisfaction feelings about the game... 
 yes, i know, it gonna be troubling just to play a game, but i assure you that those feelings are 
 very very real. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gfile
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 14, 2007 1:46 am PT
Review:  Like RTW, Medieval 2 wrote history in rts. Made you upgrade your pc to enjoy full, dinamic graphics, 
 deepest game ever. Playing that game you can learn history, geography... Only game that ever ocupy 
 me that long, take my whole vacation. Revolutionary in graphic, gameplay, builds your strategic 
 way of life. Horns that mark begin of the battle are something special, shame that there is only 
 few different ones. Finally they made warriors not cloned, feel like reality. For us who love micromenagment, this 
 game has plenty of it, you can sit for hours and look at that beautiful map... My only complain 
 is that they should put shader 3.0 for stronger graphic cards for even better look. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Huineng9
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 8, 2007 1:48 am PT
Review:  Medieval II: Total War is the indirect sequel to 2002's Medieval: Total War, and the fourth game 
 in the critically acclaimed Total War series from The Creative Assembly. The game is set between 
 the years 1080 and 1530. Like the original Medieval, it focuses on medieval warfare, religion, 
 and politics in Europe, North Africa, and the Middle East. However, unlike its predecessor, the 
 timeframe stretches into the era of the historical discovery of the New World, and simulates the 
 discovery and conquest of the Americas.
  
  Similar to previous titles of the Total War series, the game consists of two modes of play: battles 
 and single-player campaign. Battles can be played in multiplayer, in user-defined scenarios, or 
 in historical scenarios which simulate real battles such as the Battle of Arsuf or the Battle of 
 Agincourt. Battles are also featured in the campaign.
  
  The campaign allows the player to assume control of a faction of the time period, and build a civilization, 
 both economically and militarily in order to conquer other factions. Gameplay consists of controlling 
 the faction's military, economic, and social systems via a large campaign map. During the player's 
 turn, armies, fleets, and agents can be moved on the map. When an army engages another army, the 
 player can choose to fight the battle personally, in the battle mode, or automatically calculate 
 the outcome.
  
  The goal of the campaign depends on which type of campaign is played. The short campaign requires 
 the player to defeat one or two enemy factions (for example, England must defeat its historical 
 enemies Scotland and France) and control at least 15-20 settlements. The long campaign requires 
 the player to control at least 45 territories and one or two significant cities, such as Jerusalem, 
 Rome or Constantinople.
  
  This game is truly amazing and the gamers will love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KENICUS
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 2, 2007 6:57 pm PT
Review:  I am an avid RTS gamer. This expansion was much anticipated and it lived up to the hype. They really 
 did a good job of keeping things familiar yet tweaking it up a notch. I do not play online much 
 so I can't comment on its gameplay there. So far, I have found it to be enjoyable and fun to play. 
 I wish they would give SHOGUN a little upgrade too. I highly recommend this expansion to all RTS 
 gamers. When you think that the genre is played out and onits last legs, they come out with something 
 like this that infuses new blood in RTS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gmoney5646
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 31, 2007 12:12 pm PT
Review:  Medieval 2: total war is one of the better games I've played on pc. Rone: total war was a near perfect 
 experience and I believe that this game carries on its spirit. As always with the total war series, 
 battles are spectacular and immersive althought a few gripes remain. You can field a buch of arches 
 and unlaod on the enemy while they do nothing but reform their lines (weak) . The campaign is excellent 
 as well. I would like the diplomacy to be more personal with a faction, and why does it cost so 
 much to get you best ally to help you in war? I would aslo like more emphesis on trade routes. 
 Maybe a larger role with them in a war (like cutting an enemies supplies or disabling their entire 
 infastructure. All in all this total war delivers on nearly every fron and is recommended for anyone 
 who enjoys an immersive and overall epic game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RomanGuy
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 29, 2007 11:18 pm PT
Review:  This is yet another great game from the Creative Assembly. It is addicting, Ive been playing it 
 since it came out. In fact, Im still playing Rome and Barbarian Invasion if the occasion suits 
 me. Medieval 2 definitely fits in with the other games. However, I do have a few points that really 
 could have been improved or even added. First, in the first Medieval game, each of the provinces 
 on the map had titles you could give to your generals. Since the division of land and titles, in 
 medieval times, to nobles was so important, why the Creative Assembly left it out in what is the 
 supposed improvement on a medieval game is beyond me, especially since it was in the first game. 
 Secondly, the faction leader in Medieval 2 does absolutely nothing, hes just another general. 
 In the first game, he at least kept the loyalty of generals depending on his influence, and I had 
 many a rebellion after the death of a leader, which is very realistic and adds difficulty to the 
 game. In Medieval 2, your leaders authority does nothing and the worst thing to a rebellion Ive 
 had is a captain leading an army turns rebel, not much of a problem. I have also noticed that your 
 original royal family dies out after a while, almost as if there is a glitch that prevents sons 
 of the royal family from having children, or even getting married. Another problem is not being 
 able to choose your heir, or at LEAST the kings actual son should be the next king. Many times 
 the game chooses an heir not even related to the king, even if the king had a son! In medieval 
 times, being related to or married into the royal family was the key to getting the throne, not 
 so in Medieval 2. IN SHORT, WHY DID THE CREATIVE ASSEMBLY LEAVE OUT THESE THINGS THAT WERE SO IMPORTANT 
 TO THE MEDIEVAL ERA, ESPECIALLY SINCE THEY WERE IN THE FIRST MTW GAME? Another problem is how hard 
 the Mongols and Timurids are. They are impossible to eliminate, even when you take their last city 
 they spawn all these armies. I guess it is realistic, since unified under a Khan they were pretty 
 much unstoppable, but to help gameplay it needed to be toned down a bit. The Papacy is another 
 problem. How the Pope himself works is actually pretty good, but when his faction takes over half 
 of Western Europe, theres a problem and that has happened A LOT. Another, relatively minor thing 
 that has annoyed me is the fact that in certain places you can march armies over water without 
 fleets. This is also very unrealistic and if not included would have added more strategic difficulty, 
 and who couldnt use more of a challenge? What the makers also could have done is diversify the 
 factions a lot more. Having a few units named differently and with EXACTLY the same stats as any 
 other faction is not what I call unique factions. The main uniqueness in factions is religion. 
 Also, the fact that Crusades lose almost their entire army if they stop to attack another city 
 other than the target is wrong and unrealistic, since many Crusader kingdoms were formed this way. 
 The AI has been better before too. The siege AI is the absolute worst and the campaign AI isnt 
 much better, as allies betray you left and right, even if you are much stronger than they are. 
 Then, as they are down to their last city, you offer generous terms of ceasefire, but it is rejected 
 flat and they are destroyed and I have yet to have anyone as a vassal, which was also an important 
 part of the medieval era. Apparently, the Creative Assembly could have done a bit more research 
 of what medieval politics and life was really like. The parts I liked were the graphics and a few 
 other additions to the campaign, otherwise the campaign seemed like Ive seen it before, nothing 
 special. The graphics are awesome, though, and have the feel of medieval battles. The merchants, 
 if used correctly, could make a huge profit and the idea that militia in cities dont have to be 
 paid for helps A LOT in keeping cities loyal. The way Cardinals work is great and the heresy outbreaks 
 add more difficulty. Princesses are actually cool, too, as is the idea of different settlements, 
 castles or cities. However, the points I mentioned earlier and the fact that it needed a MASSIVE 
 patch, make Medieval 2 seem almost like an unfinished game that needed more testing and could also 
 be a touch more in tune with the actual medieval era. And why do game designers believe that a 
 game can only have amazing gameplay OR amazing graphics, not both? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamer_jay
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 28, 2007 7:45 pm PT
Review:  You will start out having only 2 or more settlement (it depends on the faction) and then its up 
 to you how to make your faction the strongest empire! Like in RTW you must manage your settlements 
 by yourself or let the AI do the work well its up to you. As you get stronger and the your empire 
 grows larger the more enemy you will face - this is where the diplomats do their work, you can 
 get extra golds with the help of your merchants and assasination is good and now effective. Battles 
 are same as RTW but is looks more realistic this time (depends on your system) and its fun to watch 
 it. PLUS the Medieval 2 offers great thrill because of the 2 strong factions namely the Mongols 
 and Timurids. So better go to nearest Game Stores in your place and grab one, i assure you this 
 is great
  NOTE that you must fight the battles yourself to minimize the casualties and or let the AI ensure 
 the victory
  
  This review takes 1hour to write sorry for bad english/grammar 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smollett13
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 24, 2007 3:23 pm PT
Review:  I like strategy games. I'm not much for the real time stuff since I never can think fast enough, 
 but the turn based games always stood me in good stead. I played (and still playing) the long campaign 
 and so far I'm having blast. I'm having so much fun with the game, my friends are starting to wonder. 
 I go into work frequently cursing the French for not allowing me military access to trounce Milan's 
 cities and armies. Once I'd managed to conquer the French, I began to swear that Spain would see 
 the business end of my lance if they didn't stop trying to capture one of my cities. That and the 
 new pope would just have to go. I'm a closet Napoleon and the epic structure of the game appeases 
 me like none other. The overall structure is turned based but battles (if you want to fight) are 
 played out in real time. Mostly you just march your men hither and thither, but once you engage, 
 its all a mush of soldiers. The cool part is that if you zoom in, you can ride with the cavalry 
 as they plunge into the enemy lines, sending bodies flying. Once you're zoomed in, you can see 
 everyone's dual to the death. Definitely some ouch, man, that looks painful moments. No blood though, 
 but that's ok. The turn based strategy is done well and doesn't offer too much difficulty in figuring 
 out what's what. I know where my armies are, I know the overall landscape, and I know how to use 
 my cities and fortresses to get troops. On the non-warfare side, the diplomats help in giving you 
 breathing room, but generally if the other guy hates you, there isn't much a diplomat can do unless 
 the tables turn. The assassin works wonders in killing people and the merchant does provide a great 
 income if he is used smartly.
  All in all, I think this is a great game and has managed to suck me into its world. My friends 
 tomorrow will hear how I mercilessly swept across Europe in a reign of terror. That always makes 
 for a good story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ericzu
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 22, 2007 9:01 am PT
Review:  Medieval 2 Total War is a very fun game. The main entertainment is in the grand campaign. You can 
 pick 1 of 5 factions and try to conquer the world. This game is mainly turned based, when you move 
 and train your armies and build your buildings, but the battles are real time, where you command 
 your armies in a high-graphics battlefield. You order your soldiers arround, order them to charge, 
 order them in diffrent formations, order your archers to launce flamin arrows, and order them to 
 engage the enemy. You can watch your men in a fight to the death and calvalry charge.
  
  In this game there are helpful units called agents and the straight forward soldiers. The diffrent 
 kinds of agents and their purposes are in the next sentance. If you are being annoyed by a high-star 
 general you can try to assassinate him with an assassian. If you see a huge army coming to your 
 troop buildup you can send a spy and see what units you will be up against. If you arent doing 
 so well in a war you could use a diplomat and try to arrange a cease fire. If you need extra money 
 send merchants to the various resources on the map. If you need to spread cathlocism send a priest 
 over.
  
  There are 2 kings of settlements in Medieval 2. There are cities and castles. Cities are economical 
 while castles are for military, and where you train your armies. Theese are just SOME of the features 
 of Medieval 2 Total War. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: titust755
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 19, 2007 7:51 am PT
Review:  this games is full of history and gameplay it has an amazing conquer the world campain and tons 
 of factions to play. once you start your campain its hard to put down. this game is just so great 
 its hard to say anything about great economy manageing and the castle seiges are fun. from liberation 
 the u. k with the scots to joining the crusades its just fun to play. and now with a expansion pack 
 coming out any gamer who hasnt picked it up yet SHOULD!! the expsaion adds so much to a game that 
 already offers loads of things to join and do. u can also assassinate princesses its just a soild 
 RTS with a good line in history it actally helped me pass my ap Euro exame. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrTaco016
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 12, 2007 8:23 pm PT
Review:  Coming from the total war games this was the best of the series and was worth the hype, the best 
 part was the two different types of settlement. The city which is more for economy growth and the 
 fortress best with defence and making units to win battles. Also the part where the Americas come 
 in to view when you get to a certain part in the game is very cool. It makes you wait until you 
 take over to sail over with an armada and kill the native Americans. Now with the expansion coming 
 out it will be the best. Picking 4 new campaigns from across the world with more settlement in 
 each area and new playable factions and units. Each campaign has a new challenge in it for some 
 of the factions. I cant wait til it comes out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woozienebunu
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 11, 2007 1:34 am PT
Review:  Medieval 2 Total War is one of the best games ever made. It has strong roots, the Total War series 
 being very good. I finished it with the English and can only say that it is a masterpiece.
  The graphics are excellent, the units being detailed, the terrain looks very good and the shaders 
 do their job. The sound is excellent. It fits in the atmosphere and it is made at a high quality. The 
 battles have excellent sound which brings real feeling into you.
  The gameplay is classical but with some improvements. There are two parts: The tactical map and the 
 battle map. On the tactical map you recruit, plan take care of economy, send merchants on valuable 
 resources and so. This is important as you must keep a balance with the economy. The Pope is a addition. He 
 can start crusades, ban you from the religion. But if you do what he wants he will leave you alone. The 
 crusades request you to send troops to the targeted town. But you can make an army and leave it 
 on the battle map. Some men will desert but you won't have to fight. The Battle Map is where you 
 fight battles yourself. These battles are very realistic. Confusion gets you when the armies clash, the 
 sound helps you feel the battle, and the game supports a lot of units so that you can see how those 
 battles were. The requirements are high. The game is excellent and maybe the gameplay could have 
 had more additions. Still this is one of the best games ever! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grarap
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 10, 2007 11:26 pm PT
Review:  MTWII is essentially divided into two totally different games, and therefore I only see it fair 
 to review it as such. As is to be expected from a game followng in the footsteps of the great Rome: Total 
 War, the 3D battles in this sequel are both breathtaking and amazingly fun. There really is very 
 little else to say, as the boys at the Creative Assembly have decided not to tinker with their 
 tried and tested formula of massive strateigic batles. Whilst in my opinion, the units in this 
 game aren't as fun to control as those presented in previous iterations of the franchise, the improved 
 graphics create awesome battles that are often more interesting to watch unfold than to play.
 
  
  The more conventional tactial-map based portion is where the weaknesses are apparent in my opinion. 
 Again, not 'much' has been changed, but what has adds very little to the overall experience. The 
 religion mechanic is interesting, but creates yet more micromanagement as you bend over backwards 
 to appease the Pope and send out armies of priests to combat various heathens. It's the difficulty 
 that really gets you. The start of each campaign is usually straightforward, as the game is tailored 
 to pit you against a single enemy only. However, irrelevant of your faction, eventually you will 
 be bordered by several foes. An alliance is easy to acheive, but as soon as a cracks appear in 
 you empire (ie you fighting two fronts at once) , you neighbours will beat down on you like theres 
 no tomorrow. My Venetian campaign was going perfectly until Hungary attacked my weak northern border 
 whilst my armies were in the east. Milan then decided to attack my capital, and the Holy Roman 
 Empire, despite my best efforts to keep the peace, also decided to take a slice out of my pie and 
 moved their armies south. The AI is just too easy on the battlefield and far too punishing on the 
 overhead map. Sure, it may be realistic, but did the Venetians ever take over the Byzantine Empire 
 and single-handedly carve out a crusader state? On the subject, many battles which should be truly 
 epic are very dissapointing (Jerusalem anybody) ?
  
  Funnily enough, still a compelling buy, especially considering the great multiplayer. Just make 
 sure that if you're not the greatest tactician, like me, you tone down the campaign difficulty. 
 Even then, there isn't any room for error. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: knightsbore
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 9, 2007 5:26 pm PT
Review:  Combining Creative assembly's famous strategy system used in Rome and the first Medieval total 
 war with graphics so astounding i almost wet myself, this game combines fun with thought. It is 
 true to truly enjoy this game you must have a very good computer system however even at medium 
 settings it is a thoroughly enjoyable experience. The sight of a Mongol horde bearing down on an 
 unsuspecting British longbowmen battalion is a sight to behold and to have a spearmen unit hidden 
 right next to them just makes you giggle. The risk-like strategy system min the grand campaign 
 is truly what makes this game. To be able to take control of one of a dozen civilizations and build 
 your army from serfs to an army that Alexander the Great couldn't beat allows for hours if not 
 days of enjoyment, i purchased this game the day it was released and i am still playing it with 
 the fervour of the day i bought it. The only downsides i have found in this game is that you cannot 
 take the very enjoyable grand campaign online, an error that i have felt has kept this and its 
 predecessors from being almost perfect, and the fact that your units are stupid. It requires quite 
 a bit of micro managing in a city as some units don't want to go here and some decide they want 
 to go there. Yet these are only minor bugs that can be fixed with a few patches. Overall this game 
 is worth every penny you pay for it. Yet as the Gamespot review states you do need a very good 
 system to enjoy this game to the best extent. Ive found a high power Pentium 4 and higher with 
 a Nvidia 7600 plus or equal video card along with at least 1 gig of ram is the minimum for getting 
 into the graphics of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: medic4hire
Rating: 6.1
Date: Aug 6, 2007 6:49 pm PT
Review:  This game has received so many good reviews that I decided that it MUST be different from the other 
 Total War games. I expected a new engine with aesthetic design and new features not found in the 
 previous games of the series. Sadly however I was disappointed that it did not improve as much 
 as I had hoped. Do not get me wrong, the game was fun. I found that it lacked a certain pizazz 
 however. As with the rest of the Total War series, the game tries to split real time battle with 
 turn based city management. If you are a fan of the Total War series then by all means you need 
 to get this game. If one has disappointed you before, then leave it alone. I value this game at 
 $20. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mc_ren
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 31, 2007 1:30 pm PT
Review:  Medieval Total War is a nice step up from Rome Total War in terms of graphics, game play and depth, 
 but it does need polish. The game suffers from many different glitches ranging from simple graphical 
 glitches, to the terrible game breaking unexpected error . It really does depend upon how lucky 
 you are with the game, some people would say I am crazy because they don't experience any errors 
 at all, while others would say that I am understating the problem and that there game is literally 
 unplayable. My luck with the game has been mixed, I have had a sparse handful of unexpected errors 
 happen during the RTS part of the game, along with the occasional graphical glitch. The turn based 
 part of the game has been nicer and i have encountered only two or three big glitches.
  
  Graphically the game is very appealing, my mid to lower end 7600gt has been able to present some 
 very nice graphics. Everything from the shine of a knights armor to flashes of mighty cannons firing 
 looks very wonderful.
  
  The sounds of the game are good to, the music is solid and the sounds of battle really fit nicely.
 
  
  The game play is very fun, but the turn based part can get a little boring at times. The RTS battles 
 can be both fun to direct but it would be nice if the units were a bit more flexible, it just seems 
 that all those back alleys you see in cities should have men fighting all over them. The scale 
 of the game seems to fit well, it is one of the few games of its type that really shows how massive 
 these battle really were.
  
  The game offers good replay value, there are plenty of factions to play as and it seems there are 
 some mods you can download to, which to me really helps a game.
  
  A bit glitchy, but still pretty fun, I hope many more total war games are made to improve upon 
 there formula. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Viedric
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 28, 2007 6:54 pm PT
Review:  Total War. Where do I begin... for a long time now I have been playing these games. Ever since 
 the release of Shogun: Total War, I have been addicted to them. Even after I buy newer games, I 
 still come back to playing Total War, and I'm always looking forward to the next installment of 
 the series. They seem to just keep getting better and better. Shogun brought realistic warfare 
 to my fingertips for the very first time, then Medieval showed up and added so much more depth 
 that it had me glued to my PC for hours on end. When I first played Rome, I thought I had died 
 and gone to heaven, but now Medieval II has come.
  
  The game itself plays very much like any other Total War game, which is VERY good. Don't fix what 
 isn't broken. Like Rome, it's campaign map is designed to perfection. It's never been easier to 
 create massive armies quickly with the added feature to recruit multiple units in one turn in one 
 city, instead of one at a time like Rome. This changes things up quite considerably, and makes 
 the world feel smaller than it does in Rome, which is good. But to counterbalance the speed at 
 which you can recruit soldiers, you have a more limited amount of turns to complete the campaign 
 objectives. Sometimes I find myself racing to take Jerusalem because I'm running out of turns, 
 but other times, I complete the map with over eighty turns left. But the campaign map isn't really 
 why we play Total War is it? At least not for me anyway. I play Total War for the real time, realistic 
 battles, and they are better than ever. Troops act more like individuals instead of masses of bodies 
 like in the previous installments. You can zoom in on the battles and see the soldiers actually 
 hitting each other and doing finishing moves instead of just swinging their swords wildly. The 
 calvary packs more of a punch, and the dynamics of medieval combat is done very well. The only 
 problems I have with the gameplay is the enemy AI at some points. Sometimes when they are attack 
 your castle, they will just sit out there waiting for you to come to them when they are supposed 
 to be attacking. They do this with bridges too, if you are on the defensive with a bridge inbetween 
 you and the enemy army, they will sometimes just wait across the bridge for you to come to them. 
 These events are rare though, and they don't really impact the playability of the game much.
  
  The game looks great. The lighting effects, troops, and buildings all look as they should. 
 They really went all out with this one. No blocky arms and legs and no robotic movements. It all 
 looks great. The campaign map looks even more impressive than Rome's. Castles and landscapes are 
 well done. Grassy plains and sunsets never looked so good on a game that featured fully controllable 
 armies of thousands of troops. The weather effects are nicely done. Water is the only thing that 
 doesn't look wonderful, it isn't bad but its bland. Overall, the graphics are absolutely breath 
 taking for a game that features so many troops on the screen at once, but of course you need a 
 very nice system to play the game to its maximum.
  
  The sound effects will not dissapoint either. The music is great and falls right in the medieval 
 theme of the game. The sounds of troops marching and calvary roaring across the grass and sand 
 has never sounded better. The chaotic sounds of combat are all included. The massive siege weapons 
 all have their respective sound effects, and the gunpowder weapons all sound wonderfully deadly. 
 Especially the cannons, cut your surround sound up when one of those fire and you will think it 
 was sitting across the room from you.
  
  The skirmish mode alone can provide many hours of fun, but the real heart and soul of this game 
 is the campaigns. There are so many different factions to play as, you will have a hard time choosing, 
 and the playing styles of each is very different. Each faction has its own strengths and weaknesses, 
 so you will want to play the campaign many times. Many hours of fun can be had from this game. 
 Its definitely worth buying, and plus there is an expansion on the way.
  
  Coming from a Total War fan who has played every one of them in the series, Medieval II: Total 
 War is the best one yet. Its a wonderful addition to the series. Now, if you'll excuse me, my kingdom 
 awaits! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paraturkurati
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jul 25, 2007 1:20 pm PT
Review:  Medieval 2 is better than Rome Total War in terms of features and graphics. I would say the AI 
 is really bad at times and also seems like the programmers have been using the same code they was 
 using for Rome Total War and that is a downfall for this game since the code is still not stable!
 
  
  So if you got like a very good computer with Pentium D 3.4GHz and 2048MB and a blazing graphic 
 card like the NVIDIA GTX this game is perfect for you but remember to update it with the latest 
 patch or issues will appear! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobstos
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 22, 2007 8:13 am PT
Review:  Synopsis:
  Medieval 2: Total War is the sequel to this hit 2002 PC strategy game Medieval: Total War. This 
 game let's you be the ruler of the empire of your choice, and it is your job to lead your county 
 to European Domination, and eventually into the Americas. While at it's very core, it deeply resembles 
 it's predecessor, So many features and improvements have been added and made that it feels like 
 a Fresh Start. As the ruler, you will use diplomacy, espionage, and sheer millitary strenght to 
 conquer your foes. Set in the Middle Ages of Europe, your conquest will take you from the dark 
 beginnings of Fuedalism, through the Holy Crusades of Jerusalem, and into the age of exploration. 
 While a large portion of the game will be spent on a campaign map with turn-based rules, the heart 
 and soul of the game is in the Real-Time battles. Being able to render up to 25,000 units on screen 
 at one time, Epic doesn't even begin to describe the size of these conflicts.
  
  Gameplay:
  The Total War franchise has always been taking the RTS genre to new heights, and this 
 addition is no different. As with the other entries in the franchise, the game is not about building 
 a base , and collecting resources in the conventional ways many gamers have come to expect in this 
 genre. You have Captial Cities, Castles, ports, towns, forts, and other settlements in which you 
 construct buildings to create an economy. While Castles are suited to house soldiers and create 
 weapons and armor, regular towns and communities can have wide tracts of land dedicated to farming 
 and livestock, which in turn will be exported off to your other settlements as you see fit. Before 
 long, you will find yourself needing more land, and more food. This is where conquest comes into 
 play. You could simply recruit a massive army and take the lands by force, other methods are always 
 viable. You could marry off your daughter, for example, to a neighboring country's royalty, and 
 become mutually bonded to that nation, trading resources and protecting eachother from invaders. 
 Likewise, you could send an Assassin to exterminate said nation's leader (s) , and throw their nation 
 into unbridled chaos, causing them to crumble at their very foundations. All of these methods are 
 extremely satisfying, and can prove almost infinte replayability.
  
  Graphics:
  Graphics in an RTS game have always been a hit-or-miss ordeal, and this game hits the nail on the 
 head. Each soldier in your army has a unique look to them, and with that gone away with previous' 
 games where you controlled an army of clones. sunlight reflects off of metal armor and weapons, 
 soldiers can become drenched in blood and dirt as a long battle rages on, and the bodies of the 
 dead and dieing permanentally scar the battlefield, as a grisly reminder of the fact that War is 
 truely Hell. All of these aspects really bring together the overall atmosphere of the game, right 
 down to the inspirational speeches the generals give their men before a battle.
  
  Sound:
  For me personally, sound in a game can really be the defining point in whether or not 
 it was all worth it in the end. And I will tell you right now, that the sound in this game is AMAZING. 
 The ambience of battle has never before been brought to life so vividly as this game achieves. 
 You can hear everything, from the clasing of sword and spear to the cries of dieing men, and men 
 who are fighting for their king and country. The orchestrated chorus that times itself with different 
 moments in battle is extraordinary. as two armies stare eachother down, their flags slowly waving 
 in the breeze, the occasional clank and crack of metal and leather armor, the music is calm and 
 pretensious. When the general gives the order for volleys of arrows to be loosed, the music intensifies 
 as you see bodies dropping in the enemy ranks. When you finally give the order to charge, the music 
 blasts in symphonic chaos, and them pauses right as the two forces are about to charge into eachother, 
 headlong and furious. It really brings everything together in an indescribable way.
  
  Conclusion:
  Medieval 2: Total War is a game that should not be missed by anyone. Worth every 
 penny, the guys over at Creative Assembly have once again outdone themselves and this game is sure 
 to please for years to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lzblind
Rating: 6.9
Date: Jul 20, 2007 9:53 am PT
Review:  This game looks to me like those games that they release periodically to make money. Taking advantage 
 of the fame of the title, they improve the graphics here and there, add a few new stuffs that look 
 cool and the old players just have to buy it because they can't help to play without the new features.
 
  
  But the game itself is the same... you just have to battle over and over like the other TW games. 
 And the new features down't make this more enjoyable. You will just amass a huge army and battle 
 through the hole map like the other ones.
  
  The units are different.. I mean medieval, not roman. They look different but in the end they are 
 the same. I started to play the game but there was nothing new, then I let it go... to the trash.
 
  
  If you never played TW, go for it. It's a nice style of game, the battles are nice, the map is 
 huge and there is a lot to conquer. The AI is often silly but the graphics are nice. You'll probably 
 feel like a royal family trying to take Europe under your banner and that's nice.
  
  But if you already played TW, specially Rome and Barbarian Invasions, there's nothing new here, 
 look elsewhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deshields538
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 17, 2007 7:43 am PT
Review:  Medieval 2 puzzles me. When it was announced I said to myself this game will rock. It seemed 
 like the perfect formula for the next Total War game with crusades, Mongol invasions, inquisitions 
 and even Aztecs and the New World. How could you lose? Well quite a bit it seems.
  
  Medieval 2: Total War is the fourth Total War game (not including expansions) to be released so 
 far. It challenges you with conquering Europe, fighting off invasions from Asian empires and even 
 lets you mount an invasion of the Americas. Now we have been though this before with Medieval: 
 Total War and to a lesser degree Rome: Total War so the Creative Assembly really had to sweep us 
 off our feet with this one if they were going to make it as great as those games. For the first 
 60 minutes you think that they have succeeded. The battles appear awesome at first and when you 
 start the Grand Campaign you feel like you are conquering Europe for Real. What Medieval does outstandingly 
 well in is graphics and sound. The graphics are definitely cutting edge for strategy games. Units 
 will all look pretty even when there are a thousand of them getting stuck into battle. Their faces 
 look real, their armour shines and they slowly accumulate dirt and blood while fighting. The campaign 
 map is also very nice. You can see deserts, temperate zones and snowy wastelands and if you zoom 
 in really close youll see that the rivers are actually flowing in real time.
  
  As for sound it is fantastic. Armour clanks, swords clash, guns go bang and cannons go boom. You 
 will actually feel like your in a proper battle. And there is also a great soundtrack to boot which 
 includes over 20 superb tunes. Trust me thats a lot more than youll get from other RTS like Supreme 
 Commander or Tiberium Wars. The music that you hear depends on where in the world you are fighting. 
 For example if you are fighting a crusade in the Middle East you will fight to the sound of Islamic 
 or Eastern music where as if you fight the Aztecs in Mexico youll hear Music that has a native 
 American feeling to it. As you can see when it comes to sound and graphics few can compete with 
 this game.
  
  (And now for the inevitable however)
  
  However good tunes and fancy graphics do not make a strategy game good. Battles may look and sound 
 good but youll find that gameplay wise they are rather rubbish. For you see M2TW has a problem, 
 a bug problem. Even with the latest patch youll still have broken axmen, super peasants that can 
 beat fully trained knights and diplomacy which is complete and utter rubbish. I could live with 
 sub-par graphics and shoddy music but I can never live with an RTS that has gameplay like this. 
 Your allies will regularly betray for no reason even when you are bigger and better than them in 
 every way, youll see how gun troops wont fire unless they are in the right formation and when 
 it comes to defending walls many of them will refuse to shoot at all. Like I said this game needed 
 more work a lot more work. No matter now good everything else is the gameplay with frustrate, 
 annoy and anger you to the point of madness and to be honest it gets pretty boring after a while. 
 I have seen a lot worse but I expected more from this game, especially after how great its predecessor 
 (Rome) was. In the end bugs will ruin your day spoiling your experience and if you have played 
 Rome youll always be thinking havent I done this before? If you dont mind bugs like that then 
 this game will keep you busy for a long time but if you simply cant stand them or are looking 
 for a new experience for the Total War then I recommend that you pass at least until they fix the 
 bugs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kubilius
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jul 12, 2007 3:32 am PT
Review:  Not sure if any more praises are needed towards this game - everything is very close to being perfect. 
 Civilization alike huge map, complex economy and micromanagement, superb 3D battles, graphics, 
 soundtracks, etc..
  
  Though i easily rate this game a 9.9, I would probably like to point out a few things that are 
 not perfect in this game series, but I do hope it will be fixed in the upcoming sequel (which will 
 include Lithuania as a separate campaign, woohooo!) :
  
  * AI - as the biggest fun is playing full campaigns, you have to play against AI. And when it's 
 so dumb, that it stands under cannon fire until you fully annihilate them, it's no fun realy.
 
  
  * Diplomacy - sending an emissary to a country, which you have nearly destroyed and offering them 
 peace in exchange for some tribute or city (they already lost 10!) , would be acceptable in most 
 RL diplomatic relations, but here it's on the opposite - AI starts asking the same from you for 
 ceasefire and threatens to declare new war :)
  
  * Landscape on maps - though it was already introduced in Total War II, it would be good to emphasize 
 it more, as it was in real wars - trapping your opponent in a canyon, fortifying your army in plains 
 surrounded by mountains, etc. Start is good, but it needs to be developed further.
  
  So, if the AI would be better, this game would be a strong 11 out of 10. Still, it's probably the 
 best game available if you love deep/involving/long games :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asgh0r
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 7, 2007 3:13 am PT
Review:  Truly and very best! this is a biggest and hugely of real strategy game ever! no more again, I 
 didn't thought this game will..., you know, give many .. somethings different so amazing, it's main 
 in the graphic, the graphic is very real amazing and nicely fresh to see in my eyes, the new civilizations, 
 units, system, how to play, and others had break my vision about this game before... I so so ... 
 very loved and feels happy about this game..., and surely I will buy this new expansion of this 
 game,...... this game is a hugely revolution of strategy games and I thought the game didn't wasted 
 my times in my mind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KrisBolton
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 5, 2007 3:03 pm PT
Review:  Medieval II: Total War has changed my view of turn-based strategy games forever. Medieval II: Total 
 War combines real-time and turn-based game play magnificently; Ive been disappointed in the past 
 by turn-based games in the past such as Civilization IV and Galactic Civilizations II. The reason 
 I didnt enjoy turn-based games in general was the game play was too slow. Not with this game, 
 it can be as fast paced as any other RTS.
  
  Graphically this game is slightly disappointing, set on best and zoomed in the graphics dont look 
 as good as I expected. Zoomed out and set at best they are great.
  
  Sound  the music and sound is brilliant. It really does make it so more immersive.
  
  Game 
 play  there are hours and hours of game play. You can choose to play each battle in real-time 
 or let the computer decide, which can dramatically shorten game play (seriously, by hours) . Although 
 the length of battles can also be an annoyance.
  
  Each battle can last so long you get bored quite easily, at which point you want to use the auto-battle 
 button, which can take the point of the game away.
  
  Another con is the amount of lag when the video settings are set to best, I suppose youd expect 
 a little lag when the battle field is full of fighting troops and set that high, but to look at 
 this game you wouldnt expect that amount of lag, also it can lag with a small amount of troops 
 on the battle field.
  
  The final con that adds to its annoyance is some of the voices of the different civilisations are 
 the same.
  
  Overall Medieval II: Total War is brilliance, let down by disappointing graphics (zoomed in) , the 
 boredom, which can set in quite fast and some other smaller points. In such a good game it is annoying 
 that they didnt go over and fix the finer points which would have made this game great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kamui_of_God
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 3, 2007 10:51 am PT
Review:  One word can describe this game: excellent.
  
  It is immersive, beautiful and it really delievers!
  
  The strategic portion of the game is 
 very rich, and has many layers. The downside is that the AI is relatively weak, and the game has 
 a few minor bugs which, even after two patches, still cause annoyances. Fans of fast-paced multiplayer 
 orientated RTS games might not enjoy this however, as it focuses on a long single player campaign 
 that involves conquering Europe, Asia Minor and North Africa (along with a few territories of the 
 Americas) . The battles tend to be long and drawn out (they can last from 5 minutes to sometimes 
 an hour) which can turn people off who are looking to get into quick action.
  
  The game is absolutely beautiful graphically. You can zoom in close on your knights to witness 
 them fighting, making it seem like the latest block-buster action movie. Unfortunately, the system 
 requirements are very demanding. I had my computer's video card upgraded just so I could set my 
 graphics to the highest, and even then, I experience lag if there are over 300 soldiers on the 
 battlefield.
  
  Its music and sounds are flawless, however, the actual voice acting could use work. Some factions 
 like the Spanish, English and French are fine, however, other factions such as the Holy Roman Empire (Germans) 
 sound overly evil. That could be taken commically, however, it gets worse. The soundset used by 
 the Russians, Poles, Danish and Hungarians are the same. Therefore, you somehow have Danes who 
 speak a north Germanic language, and the Hungarians who speak a Finno-Ugric language saying Slavic 
 things like Da . That could be ignorable, however, the Slavic sound set is terrible and really 
 needs work.
  
  The Turks have similar problems, they share the same Arab soundset as the Egyptians and the Moors 
 do.
  
  If more work was spent on polishing out the bugs, and making proper sounds, this game good be said 
 to be flawless. A definate must-buy for fans of previous Total War games - even if it is relatively 
 easy compared to Barbarian Invasion and Shogun: Total War. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1stRifle
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 27, 2007 4:11 pm PT
Review:  Overview:
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Creating a successful series in the gaming industry can be a two-edged sword. On one hand, if 
 at least two titles are highly successful, you can then count on the support of a dedicated (and 
 potentially very large) fan base. On the other hand though, theres the pressing question of: how 
 many titles of the series will the fans play until they finally start to point out that game X+3 
 is just like X, but with a few tweaks? After Rome Total War took a major step forward for strategy 
 games, the Total Wars series was bound to get a new title. And even though it doesnt bring as 
 many novelties, it keeps the elements that made Rome Total War an excellent game. As the name suggests, 
 Medieval 2 Total War takes place during the Dark Ages, when knights went on crusades to liberate 
 Jerusalem. The single-player campaign covers several centuries, thus the units that will heed your 
 command will vary from archers to cannons. At the start of the campaign you will be able to choose 
 one of five factions (England, France, The Holy Roman Empire, Spain, Venice) each of them having 
 some advantages and disadvantages regarding their troops. Also, besides the campaign, in single-player 
 you can also play seven historical battles and also customized battles with many options to choose 
 from. Like Rome before, Medieval 2 offers two types of gameplay. First there is the strategic part 
 in which you will move your troops and agents along the global map and then there is the RTS part 
 where the actual battles take place, if you choose to personally lead your men.:
  
  The Single Player Experience:
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Single players are offered basically two options. The grand campaign, which is the real focus 
 of MTW2, or the ability to fight one battle of their choice. MTW2 features several historical battles, 
 including the Battle of Hastings and Battle of Agincourt. Each of the historical battles is opened 
 with a cinematic sequence explaining what led to the battle, and what your objective as leader 
 of one side is. The AI supplies you with advice during the battle, with very accurate results. 
 Fighting as William the Conqueror at the Battle of Hastings, the computer advisor informs you that 
 in order to win, you must lure the Saxons off their hillside defensive positions. This is exactly 
 what William did during the battle, changing the course of England and the British Isles forever. 
 You can also select the custom battle option, which allows you to choose opposing armies, the region 
 being fought over, and assigns a point value for each side to choose it's units, experience, and 
 armor and weapon improvements. This option is what I like to call the What-If option. What if the 
 English had tried to sack Constantinople? In the Custom Battle option, you can find out.
  
  The campaign mode is where MTW2 really shines. Out of the box, my only complaint is you are limited 
 on your first campaign to one of 5 Catholic factions. England, France, Spain, The Holy Roman Empire, 
 and Venice are the only factions you can begin the campaign as, and to play other factions such 
 as the Byzantines, Mongols, or any of the Muslim factions requires you finishing at least one campaign 
 mode as one of the five nations mentioned above. Your goal is obviously to defeat the other rival 
 nations, doing your best to secure territory through diplomacy, marriage, or war. And let's not 
 kid ourselves here, the easiest and most common way to win is to put the game's excellent battle 
 engine and cinematics to work. I began my campaign in 1080 AD as the English, William the Conqueror 
 sitting in London with Nottingham to the north and Caen in Normandy already in English hands. Setting 
 out, I sent an army to bring the Saxon rebels in York under my heel. The clash of steel as mailed 
 knights met peasant spearmen at the edge of the town caught my attention. Zooming in with the very 
 intuitive camera controls, I watched as some of my opponents went flying backwards from the impact 
 of barded horse on their formation. Lances splintered and broke, shields clashed, swords and spears 
 were readied and the individual battles waged around my camera. Men fell, tried to regain their 
 footing, only to have their opponents deal death blows from above. Arrows whistled through the 
 air, felling more men on both sides. Finally, the rebels broke, and York was in English hands. 
 Fast forward a few nights, a few hundred turns later, and Richard IV is off to Antioch. A Crusade 
 has been called, and the Pope, doubting the piousness of my Prince of Wales, ordered him to undertake 
 a Crusade. The religion aspect of the campaign game cannot be overlooked. The Church is very active 
 in your country's affairs, offering you missions that can lead to excommunication if failed. Excommunication 
 in MTW2 is basically a big bullseye painted on everything you own because other Catholic nations 
 are free to attack excommunicated nations in the name of the Church.
  
  Not-so-Total Multiplayer:
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Multiplayer. It's there, and I give Creative Assembly and SEGA props for enabling it, but only 
 a true Grognard would sit down at a LAN party or log in night after night to play a campaign with 
 it. Being someone who used to push counters around a game board for hours on end, I found the idea 
 of a multiplayer campaign fun, but too tedious to imagine completing. There is a last man standing 
 mode that allows several players to duke it out in a custom battle, but the lag I experienced was 
 atrocious: The epic scope of MTW2 makes it diffult to imagine most conventional group-play scenarios. 
 1st. Music
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  In Medieval 2 Total War the Music plays a key role in the turn-based map, autorun program in the 
 1st CD, and on the menus, too. It's a very pleasant sound, making the game a bit more exciting 
 to play through. While it's not groundbreaking, again it really makes you more immersed in the 
 time period. Its pleasing music is a great addition, through and through. Voice acting is also 
 well done, with a lot of variety and dialogue throughout the game.
  
  2nd. Sound &amp; Sound Effects &amp; Voice Acting
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  The sounds in this game are really spot-on. In battles, the ambience of warfare is in full swing. 
 The sounds of arrows piercing through the wind, of cavalry mounting a full charge, or the crashing 
 booms of your artillery all add together into the slew of battle. The music that goes along with 
 the battle also set a perfect tune, and it really makes improves the gameplay. Being able to immerse 
 yourself in this historic period is a lot of fun while you're commanding your massive armies.
 
  
  The sound settings are the usual volume controls for the sound effects, voices and background sounds. 
 There is also a setting for which hardware device is used by the game for your audio as well as 
 a setting to include the subtitles to what the narrator or others are saying in game.
  
  3rd. Gameplay &amp; Battle Experience
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Strategy comes in two areas of Medieval II: Total War with your empire view in turn based gameplay 
 and your usual fog of war obscuring your neighbors lands. You choose the country in Europe you 
 want to control and start out on your quest to rule your country well. The strategy has tons of 
 variety in the various aspects of town and city building, trading and political negotiations to 
 keep any would be strategist happy for many hours.
  The empire-building portion of Medieval II has you building your empire one gold piece at a time. 
 You build your cities and try to please your people while trading with neighboring countries as 
 well as accomplishing missions that the game gives you from time to time. City building is a simple 
 affair of picking which new buildings or improvements to add or you can let the computer auto manage 
 all these aspects. You also get to recruit from each city to create new units for your existing 
 armies or start new ones. The game puts in a unique gameplay twist by having several sources of 
 different mission assignments to earn money like attacking rebel hideouts. These missions can be 
 assigned from the Pope or a council of Nobles or other country nobles asking for your help. This 
 is a unique way to assign a mission that brings a more believable way to assign tasks for you to 
 complete.
  
  During gameplay you will also have things like spies, diplomats and marriage proposals from other 
 countries as well as your own country to deal with. The hardest part of the empire building is 
 earning enough money to build your cities so every mission becomes a race to earn gold. Using religion 
 and diplomacy you get to try your hand at all kinds of neat things like building your empire through 
 becoming the Pope. They have a system to have a chosen character of yours elected pope but it takes 
 a lot of setup and planning to pull it off. But if you do, oh the joy of having both the religious 
 and ruling might of your kingdom.
  
  There is a lot of gameplay in Medieval II with the diplomacy and other areas of non-combat with 
 the empire building. Not only do you have the usual spies and emissaries that trade with foreign 
 countries but you can make use of princesses to marry into other countries favor. Each of the characters 
 both battle figures and agents as they call them are playable characters that can gain a following 
 or be hated by the masses and be used in your empire building in many ways. For your real time 
 combat you have the battles that occur during your reign in the campaign or several quick and historical 
 battles to duke it out with any country in the game. The country you choose for either the empire 
 building in campaign mode or quick battles will determine the units available to you. Units can 
 range from the huge variety of armed and armored foot and horse soldiers to special units like 
 elephants, cannons and other large siege weapons. The units in the battles are controlled as a 
 whole squad of fighting men with each unit being easily identifiable. The main problem you have 
 in battles is the speed with which things occur and moving units to accomplish what you want them 
 to. Using a good variety of units and choosing the correct ones at the start for many possible 
 situations is hard but the way to win the battles. You need to think ahead and prepare for what 
 the enemy is going to do or you will be caught with units like archers facing a horde of charging 
 cavalry with no other protection but their bows. At other times you can accurately predict what 
 the enemy will do and have the charging cavalry face the cannons you positioned in front of the 
 town street they charge down backed up by cavalry of your own.
  
  The battles are well fought out by the AI with a good variety of tactics that the computer throws 
 at you. Your own tactics will be determined by the units you select or can afford during your quick 
 battles. Yes you have to purchase them before you fight in the quick combat scenarios but in the 
 historic and campaign battles you get either what you built up in your strategy levels of the campaign 
 or what was really there for the historical.
  
  Multiplayer games consist of battles against other people online but without the empire building. 
 This means you can have fierce battles between up to eight armies played out right over your Internet. 
 The competition is great using your varied armies and you get to decide things during the setup 
 like custom, historical or balanced battles. Multiplayer is played over the Gamespy network or 
 a LAN you set up.
  
  Using the interface and mouse keyboard assignments was very easy and the more you play of these 
 strategy genre games the more you can see the simplest setups are the best. The mouse commands 
 and moving around the screen is quick and easy and getting all your troops to do the things you 
 want is simple. The troops may not be doing the right thing but they are doing what you told them 
 to and that is the whole point of all this strategy, to make sure you have the easiest and best 
 way to accomplish what you want. Sega and Creative Assembly have come up with a very easy and nice 
 setup not only with the interface but the entire game that works very well in all the different 
 areas. The gameplay as a whole works very well and they should know after all the Total War and 
 other strategy games they have successfully designed and published. 4th. Value &amp; Replay Value
 
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  The game is huge, and can seemingly take forever. If there is any complaint about the Replay Value, 
 it's that the game is too long at times. A campaign can take you weeks to finish, only to setup 
 a new campaign as a different faction under different rules. Then you've got another few weeks 
 to put into a campaign, which could take months to finish if you fight all your battles. If you 
 get tired of the turn based side of things, there is plenty of historic battles to be fought. This 
 historic twist to the battles is nice, and the battles feel quite epic. On top of that, historic 
 battles are pretty tough, so winning them feels like a big accomplishment. You've got to earn your 
 victory. In addition, you can play skirmishes against the computer. These aren't too exciting, 
 and mainly I'd stick to campaign. Finally, you can go online, but so far that experience wasn't 
 too fantastic for me.
  
  To be honest, I just stick to the campaign mode. It can be setup in multiple different ways that 
 really shake up your gameplay. The game allows you to really dig your teeth into some deep, strategic 
 content.
  
  5th. Controls
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  The game can be a bit overly complicated at times. In turn based mode, you're greeted with quite 
 a few menus and sometimes coordinating attacks or implementing a strategy can be difficult. Still, 
 once you get the hang of things, everything starts falling into place. Though there could be a 
 bit more streamlining in the turn based mode, strategy fans will appreciate the level of detail 
 more than they'll curse a few menus.
  
  The same is the problem for real time battles. The camera seems to be a bit less funky than before, 
 however it's still pretty high on the funky scale. Too much time is spent to adjusting the camera 
 for optimial RTS coverage, and even still when you're commanding big armies you wish you could 
 zoom out more. It'd almost be nice to zoom out as in Supreme Commander, and replace units with 
 icons. That'd be great in setting up initial strategy, or managing massive armies. The mini-map 
 is frustratingly useless, since even a unit with only a couple survivors will appear as the same 
 icon as a unit with full strength. It's also really tiny, so you have to zoom in to get any sort 
 of detail - and then it's not useful for watching the whole battle. Still, these complaints are 
 fairly minor in the grand scheme of things. You are still able to control the battle fairly well, 
 and some of the frustrations with controlling armies are more due to the realistic nature of the 
 game than the actual controls. After while you'll become familiar with the flow of battle, and 
 can focus less on the camera and more on commanding. A major plus is the ability to quickly zoom 
 in and view the battle up close with your middle mouse button, which is a lot more fun to do with 
 the improved visuals and animations.
  
  6th. Graphics
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  The graphics have a truly epic scale, which only few games can hope to achieve. They even manage 
 to get some nice look textures in, which is amazing when you see so many units on screen. What's 
 more is the movement and battle animations of every unit are far more detailed and smooth. You 
 zoom in, and the battles occurring are far more interesting and unique than ever before. In fact, 
 I find myself zooming in a lot more, enjoying the little conflicts going down below. The battlefields 
 are massive in size, which allow for some interesting engagements. The different terrains and areas 
 you fight on also have a direct effect on the battle. Nothing sucks quite as much as having to 
 attack a position on top of a mountain. Ouch!
  
  The attention to detail just isn't on the battlefield, but on the turn-based map as well. The interface 
 has also received some minor updates, and it seems far more streamlined than ever before. However, 
 things aren't all peachy. When you're dealing with so many details, like looking textures, and 
 unique animations all on-screen at the same time, something happens. And that is FPS drop. Sadly, 
 Medieval Total War 2 demands a lot out of your PC. Anything less than the bleeding edge and you're 
 not going to be able to enjoy all the fancy shader effects, amount of detail, and other graphical 
 features.
  
  7th. Final Thoughts
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Medieval II: Total war is the second Total War game I have played after Rome Total War and I am 
 quite impressed for the huge and the giant step up from Rome Total War especially the Graphics 
 . The gameplay and graphics are really very good and the value is through the roof here. There 
 are a good variety of quick battles, historical battles and your campaign to entertain for quite 
 some time.
  
  I cant imagine much of a better game coming out for strategy enthusiast but I am sure that the 
 Total War series will definitely try to continue in this same vein of well-made games.
  
  - Jack Bradley 
::::::

::::::
UserName: picean
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jun 25, 2007 6:12 pm PT
Review:  I read a blog on this and it was the same complaint I had everyone is after england. sega put out 
 patches to fix these issues and I've downloaded everyone to no avail. at the start it's great then 
 sinks quickly. if all you want to do is fight battles and not worry about the win requirements, 
 then this is for you. careful you have no friends. the AI controls all and it wants you. read some 
 of the blogs here. the tutorial is great and the help along the way. the beginning fun and enjoyable, 
 the basic game is great just the problem later with the AI playability which as I wrote is a known 
 issue. the programmers just can't semm to get the patches right. alas it begins great and gets frustrating 
 quickly. No hope for the war weary. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Krendog
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 22, 2007 11:09 pm PT
Review:  This is such an awesome game. The game play is very fun and realistic. All they need is blood (the 
 hippie song playing in the background.) There is a little bit of blood, but there needs to be more 
 blood. Ah ha ha ha ha ha ha ha huh ha. The graphics are very impressive (I just wish I had a better 
 system to play it on.) This game will keep you occupied for a LONG time. By the time you get bored 
 of this game, the expansion will be here. By the time your bored with that, another expansion will 
 be here. And by the time your bored with that, the next game will be here. It is a highly addictive, 
 fun game. Go pick it up right now. Chuh Ching. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: God_of_ashes
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 19, 2007 3:13 pm PT
Review:  I thought this was a great game. It kept me playing for a while with all the other factions. The 
 Grand Campaign takes forever to beat but is fun the entire time. Multilayer can get pretty annoying 
 sometimes with the constant syncing problems I'm having but that might just be me.
  
  The only problem is like most games, it gets boring after a while. You have the been there, done 
 that feeling after a while of playing. It introduced a lot of new features from Rome but it didn't 
 live up to it's replay value for me.
  
  I might have just played it too much but things just got too repetitive. Sure the V1.2 update fixed 
 a TON of the bugs there were. The SEGA support rocks and helped me through a bunch of problems 
 with my CD-key. Buy this if you're a Total War fanboy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: odeclogne
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 18, 2007 12:27 pm PT
Review:  The Total War series has yet to let us down. Through three different iterations and a handful of 
 expansions, the series has consistently delivered some of the most exciting and visually appealing 
 tactical action in any strategy game, historical or otherwise. It should come as no surprise then 
 that the latest in the series, Medieval II: Total War, is an undeniably thrilling strategy experience. 
 Be warned, however. This is not the revolutionary leap forward we saw in Rome: Total War. The new 
 sequel takes the basic package of Rome and revisits the basic campaign setting of the original 
 Medieval: Total War. In terms of the overall gameplay, there aren't that many surprises here for 
 fans of the series. There are a few new touches here and there that are worth investigating, as 
 well as some substantial improvements in the graphics department. The Total War series gives players 
 the best of both worlds. On the one hand, it offers a turn-based strategic game where you manage 
 the development of your settlements, handle foreign relations, create and move armies around the 
 map. On the other hand it offers intense real-time battles that capture the cinematic pageantry 
 and intense savagery of warfare. What's more impressive is that both aspects of the game are well 
 integrated into a cohesive whole. This time around players will be returning to the Age of Chivalry 
 -- when knights went crusading in the Holy Land, when Italian city-states warred against each other 
 with hired mercenaries, when succession crises provoked kings to make war upon their neighbors. 
 The grand campaign covers several centuries, from longbows to cannons, and lets fight and conspire 
 with nations from England to Egpyt, Portugal to Poland. There's even a small side trip you can 
 take to battle the Aztecs in the Americas. One of Medieval II's most important new concepts is 
 the distinction it draws between castle and town settlements. Where the previous game offered a 
 single generic settlement type, Medieval II requires players to plan out what types of settlements 
 they'd like to develop. Towns are large, open areas, very susceptible to attack but capable of 
 producing a greater financial benefit to your empire. Castles are much easier to defend and can 
 produce more elite troops but they can't sustain themselves economically. Striking the balance 
 between the two and knowing where to place them adds another interesting layer to the overall campaign 
 game.
  Religion plays a larger role this time around. While it's been present in previous games, it was 
 never really as fully integrated into the overall experience. This time around the Pope plays a 
 powerful political role, calling crusades down on the unbelievers, excommunicating uncooperative 
 Christian rulers, and generally making sure everyone makes war against the right people. Particularly 
 savvy players can even gain control of the Papacy and use it for their own personal gain. The different 
 faiths in the game also makes conversion of conquered provinces a higher priority. The new game 
 also opens up new economic strategies with the addition of merchants who can claim resources scattered 
 around the map. While not a game winning strategy, the careful placement of merchants can provide 
 a modest boost to your income that can begin to make a small difference in the longterm. Religion 
 plays a larger role this time around. While it's been present in previous games, it was never really 
 as fully integrated into the overall experience. This time around the Pope plays a powerful political 
 role, calling crusades down on the unbelievers, excommunicating uncooperative Christian rulers, 
 and generally making sure everyone makes war against the right people. Particularly savvy players 
 can even gain control of the Papacy and use it for their own personal gain. The different faiths 
 in the game also makes conversion of conquered provinces a higher priority. One of the most evident 
 changes is the addition of greater individuality among the units and the inclusion of subtle but 
 striking visual effects. Where Rome presented homogenous units where every soldier dressed and 
 moved alike, Medieval II breaks up the monotony by slightly varying the appearance and animation 
 of each individual soldier within a unit. A cohesive unit of 40 knights will have individuals wearing 
 different types of armor and different colored pieces. The unit will still adhere to your overall 
 color scheme for quick identification on the battlefield but you'll really start to think of these 
 units as being made up of individuals instead of clones. It adds so much to the experience that 
 it will be hard to go back to Rome after this. The animations are much more natural this time around 
 as well. The individual soldiers seem to be fighting with one another to a greater degree than 
 they did in Rome. Spear thrusts, cannon reloads and even death animations are very realistic and 
 convincing. Even better, the animations that are mimicked by other individuals are played out of 
 sync so you don't get units moving in unison like the Commodores
  A wide range of new effects makes the battles seem even more realistic. A new lighting system adds 
 loads of atmosphere to the environments, particularly as it glints off the steel armor and weapons 
 in the game. There are also new haze effects that are put to brilliant use during rain and dust 
 storms. Seeing the way things gray out towards the horizon during the rain is simply amazing. In 
 fact, the environments are much larger and much more detailed than in any Total War game to date. 
 Maneuvering in massive, snow covered forests or labyrinthine Eastern cities adds a lot to the experience. 
 Even the boundaries around the map are filled with massive mountains, spectacular sunsets and a 
 wide range of effects that convince the player that they're fighting in a real place. The only 
 real problem we found with the graphics was the tendency for models to skew when standing on a 
 incline. It's subtle but definitely disconcerting to see a cavalry model stretch ten degrees in 
 order to get all four feet on a hill. The frame rate's still not the greatest but a 256MB card 
 should still be able to render most of the details you'll want to see without crippling your performance. 
 The quality of sound hasn't diminished either. The game is a veritable symphony of eerily convincing 
 battle noises, from trampling hooves to whistling arrows to clanging swords. Shouted commands add 
 another level of realism and tactical awareness to the mix. Add in a thrilling score and you've 
 got a game that sounds almost as good as it looks. Unfortunately, almost nothing has been done 
 to improve the interface, either on the battle or campaign screens. Formation controls are still 
 stuck where they were back in the original Shogun: Total War. Being able to lock formations of 
 multiple unit types, change facings without changing size, and resizing from the center of a formation 
 rather than the corner are still small aggravations that continue to plague the series. There's 
 an option for a more minimal interface this time around but it's even more distracting than the 
 basic interface. On the campaign map, there's still no easy way to locate all of your units and 
 see which ones still need orders. Likewise, the incredibly slow pace of the AI turns still drives 
 us crazy. Sure, there's an option to avoid seeing enemy moves altogether, but that's not exactly 
 a solution to our problem. We still like to see what the AI is doing; we'd just like to see his 
 units hustle a bit when they're making their way across the map. There are a few other problems 
 with this sequel. First, the addition of the Aztecs seems like a bit of a gimmick. This New World 
 power just doesn't fit the rest of the game's overall concept. It would make a hell of an expansion 
 if beefed up by the addition of other South American powers but the concept doesn't really work 
 here. Likewise, the incredibly slow pace of the AI turns still drives us crazy. Sure, there's an 
 option to avoid seeing enemy moves altogether, but that's not exactly a solution to our problem. 
 We still like to see what the AI is doing; we'd just like to see his units hustle a bit when they're 
 making their way across the map. The Papacy is a wonderful element that helps to provide a framework 
 for the game but there are some problems with the way it works. For one thing, the Pope hates it 
 when Christians fight against each other. While that's fine in theory, it's completely ridiculous 
 that you take a reputation hit when another Christian power sneaks in and takes a city you've been 
 sieging. At the start of your turn, the Pope sees you camped outside another Christian city's walls 
 and your favor drops. Trying to stay in the Pope's good graces isn't any guarantee that he'll reward 
 you either. It's nice not to be on the wrong end of a holy crusade, of course, but the real plum 
 of good papal relations is having one of your priests assigned as a cardinal. The political power 
 is great but it doesn't seem like being in the Pope's favor has anything to do with gaining those 
 cardinal seats. We've had games where the Pope has awarded multiple seats to the nations he likes 
 the least.
  
  Medieval II also allows players to turn off the battle timer. We like to linger a bit on the field 
 when our tactical plan requires extra time but it can be a real game killer when you're besieged 
 by defenders who have no way to get inside your walls and are too stupid to retreat. If you take 
 out the enemy's battering rams, siege towers and ladders, their forces will simply sit outside 
 your gates waiting for you to reload the game or send your own forces out to fight with the enemy 
 directly. Neither option is very satisfying. It would be nice if the AI could realize the futility 
 of the situation and kick things back to the strategy map. At the very least, you ought to be able 
 to enable the battle timer during the battle sequences.
  
  It's true that the developers really missed an opportunity to rework the interface but the graphics 
 upgrade and new campaign options are more than enough to satisfy the legions of Total War fans. 
 Gamers expecting the revolutionary leap forward found in Rome: Total War are really going to be 
 let down by this sequel. Instead Medieval takes the successful ideas introduced in Rome and brings 
 them back to the Middle Ages. For most strategy gamers, that's more than enough to recommend it, 
 especially if you're a fan of the time period. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: samorc
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 17, 2007 12:28 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome easily best in series beats Rome by 1 0 0 0 miles the battles are epic the 
 graphics are breathtaking the only other better game than this is starcraft. cant wait for starcraft 
 2. you got to buy this if u liked Medieval Total War 1. Rome was rubbish. what a come back 4 sega 
 and creative assembly. England is best faction I reckon. The gameplay is very good the only bad 
 thing is that internet battles arent that fast because of other players lagging that Ive come 
 across. 10 out of 10 instant classic ; ) cheers for readin hope it helped you to buy it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Felluca
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 15, 2007 6:17 pm PT
Review:  If you have been a fan of the Total War series, you owe it to yourself to go out and buy or at 
 least try M2TW! There are plenty of downfalls with the AI but, no game is perfect especially one 
 rendering so many elements at once. I thoroughly enjoyed the game and play it still from time to 
 time. Two thumbs up!
  
  I'd recommend a quality video card to fully appreciate all that goes on within a battle. I imagine 
 older machines might have a hard time running this. Otherwise, it's a must have for anyone who 
 as, aforementioned been a fan of the Total War series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: capt_karem
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 12, 2007 1:28 am PT
Review:  I played RTW to death! and I am currently playing M2TW to death. I have beaten this game as both 
 England and the Holy Roman Empire. At version 1.0 and 1.1, the bugs of this game definitely take 
 away from the experience. Once at 1.2, however, the enemies you fight seem slightly incompetent 
 instead of a bunch of brain dead monkies. The more detailed political options on the campaign map 
 really boost the experience. Diplomats, merchants, and princesses really help in giving you the 
 feeling you are enacting the foriegn policy of a nation and not just killing everything. The combat 
 is still the best part. You will definitely get your fill of bloody medieval combat in this game. 
 Thousands march off to die on your whim should you desire. The graphics are detailed and give you 
 the sense you are in a living, breathing world. Overall this is an outstanding game and I am eagerly 
 anticipating whats coming next for the Total War franchise. I just wish they had released it a 
 little later. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HenriKFM
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 14, 2007 4:42 am PT
Review:  This game really is well done, there's a lot of well done work. But after all, you will have to 
 love the Total War's gameplay style to enjoy this game on its all. Even not being one of this lovers, 
 I have to recognize the game is addictive, but have some problems, mainly related to AI behaviour. 
 Yeah, I know it isn't easy to design good AI in a game of such magnitude, but it's what we have. 
 Battles are really easy, lacks of fast action, camera is picky, battles become repetitive, and 
 when playing map manager you will think: Hey, why play this if I have Civilization 4 that it's 
 much better and funnier . Also I spent more time pursuing enemies than fighting. Maybe it's real, 
 but it isn't funny. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bromz
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 4, 2007 2:17 pm PT
Review:  Medieval 2: Total War is the latest installment of Creative Assembly's long running real time strategy 
 series. The game features the traditional total war blend of a conquer the world campaign map and 
 a real time battle simulator that allows you to be a true armchair general and take control of 
 your troops on the battlefield.
  
  Creative Assembly continue the unfortunate theme of focusing almost purely on single player. This 
 being said, however, the single player does not disappoint. Capturing the great atmosphere of the 
 medieval period, you can take control of the Vatican, go on a holy crusade to Jerusalem or perhaps 
 take control of an Islamic faction and call Jihads on the Christian infidels. Medieval 2 is also 
 graphically outstanding, with no attack of the clones soldiers and incredibly detailed textures, 
 if you have a high end rig you will certainly enjoy the look as well of the feel of M2. However 
 it must be said the SP AI need work, its is extremely easy to beat on the battle field.
  
  The multiplayer of Medieval 2: Total War, however, is extremely disappointing. The multiplayer 
 is purely the real time battles, however I believe this doesn't really hold M2: TW back, far from 
 it; the battles can last as long as any base builder RTS and a great time can be had playing them. 
 However tarnished by large bugs and suffering from such poor gameplay choices as making infantry 
 relatively pointless, Medieval 2's multiplayer is only for hardcore fans of the series who are 
 willing to put up with the frankly poor standing of multiplayer. The multiplayer lobby, as well, 
 also suffers. Lacking any sort of in game options with no friends list, no automatch and being 
 based on gamespy's unstable and laggy multiplayer platform: you can expect a frustrating time even 
 trying to play multiplayer.
  
  Medieval 2 is well worth a buy if you are interested purely in a fun singleplayer experience. Give 
 it a miss if you're looking for multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: master_blue
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jun 7, 2007 2:43 am PT
Review:  MTW2 is a strategy game set in Europe, the holy land and north Africa with 21 factions including 
 the likes of the Turks, french, english and so on, each faction has its own unique units and fighting 
 style, however it tends to be more of a cultural fighting style , for example western european 
 states (england, france, spain etc) focus on heavy infantry, knights, unmounted missile troops, 
 eastern bloc (russia, poland etc) on mobile horse archers, Turks early on with mobile missile troops 
 and later on with a combination of heavy infantry and missile troops.
  
  Graphically, once again creative assembly have created a fine looking game, i hope it doesnt age 
 as badly as Rome Total War has, but it has more bells and whisltes , arrows look better , artillery 
 seems better and horses look alot better! although i was a little worried by the liberal use of 
 the bloom effect on the graphics, would all armour have been that shiny?
  Another notable development in the graphics department was, the elimination of clones! no unit 
 features exactly the same looking soldiers, there are now at least two varieties of each soldier 
 forming a unit, not only this but depending on where they were recruited (blacksmith level etc) 
 there armour will reflect this, the better the armourer the more armour they will have. Also when 
 a fight occurs hurt soldiers will display dirtied/bloody armour so you can tell whos been in the 
 thick of the fight.
  
  Still once again, the 3d map looks pretty poor and seems to slow things right down, more so than 
 the big battles themselves!
  
  Sound wise, the game is ok, voice acting is pretty poor, would have preffered latin/greek/turk/arabic 
 voice overs at least but isntead of its all terrible accented english.
  The music seems a little out of place at first but one does develope a liking to it, however there 
 hardly seems enough of it, and the battle tracks seem a little weaker than the campaign map background 
 music, and it still features a cheesy eastern european pop song wannabe for the credit music.
 
  Quite inferior to the instrumental credit music to the original medieval total war.
  
  Gameplay, well here its a mix bag, its better than rome total war but still worse than the original 
 medieval total war.
  
  In Rome total war cavalry and archers were EXTREMELY overpowered, in MTW2 cavalry has been rebalanced, 
 its still incredibly powerful and usually the decisive part of an army in a battle (as is true 
 to most battles from this period in history) but no longer overwhelmingly so, battles with just 
 cavalry will not win against a balanced army this time round, cavalry actually require more skill 
 to be used effectively taking time to run into a gallop and lower lances for a charge.
  
  Archers, in RTW these were obscene, totally obscene, like something out of lord of the rings were 
 1 arrow is precise and will take down a heavily armoured opponent. In RTW you had armies just firing 
 a volley of arrows every 3 seconds decimating an army, now , well archers still feel a little too 
 powerful but certainly not to the same degree as in the dire RTW, also a mention should be given 
 to gunpowder units, theyre even more powerful but slow, theyre actually worth while in MTW2 unlike 
 MTW1.
  
  The campaign map i find to be poor, Creative assembly decided to do away with the risk style board 
 map in MTW and STW and replace it in RTW with this mess, its slow, boring, looks bland, and whislt 
 its suppose to offer a wealth of strategic choices, its just ,, boring. Again like in RTW, so what 
 if your enemy makes a fort in the open? you can go around it, theres barely a chance one would 
 be placed blocking a path forcing you to fight, and just as bad if not more so than in RTW is city 
 management, eventually a city grows so large it cannot be managed effectively and will riot and 
 revolt, there are no ifs or buts about it, unless you change a city to be a fortress this will 
 happen, and to make matters even more boring, CA have decided to change the rules, your settlements 
 will either be converted into towns focusing on population growth and trade, or military units 
 via a Fortress.
  Each one has varying population growth modfiers and limits and dictates what units you can train 
 at each, sounds ok? well in game it makes the already bland boring campaign map even more boring.
 
  
  Well what else is there about the campaign map? well now you have merchants, except theyre strange 
 to use, they have a skill bar which increases depending where they were recruited (merchants guild 
 in that city?) and they'll increase in skill as you move them around to various objects on the 
 campaign map to trade.
  Whats likely to happen though is for the AI to monopolise everything and make merchants nearly 
 pointless.
  
  Also there is religion again! this was absent in the original RTW, but brought back in RTW expansion, 
 this time its much more like the predecessor MTW where you can create and move around immans and 
 priests spreading your faith which affects city management.
  Problem? well the Papal AI seems to send out endless waves of inquisitors which WILL kill off your 
 armies leaders, family members, generals and maybe even your king! and no this was not true to 
 history.
  Its very irritating.
  
  The AI aswell in diplomatic matters, is dumb, theres no question about it, it doesnt know when 
 its beaten and you may ask it for a map trade and there counter proposal will be the demanding 
 of 10 thousand florins?
  And then you might try a counter proposal knocking of their demand so its the original deal and 
 this time they'll accept, very strange.
  Also you might have taken every city but one and demand peace to which they reject??
  Or perhaps 
 you are overwhelmingly powerful but whats this! minor faction with a whole 1 city and half a stack 
 full of troops decides to attack you?!!
  Expect these absurdities to happen.
  
  Battles themselves, well theyre MUCH better than RTW but still hardly as satisfying as MTW.
  
 As i mentioned archers and cavalry are not as overpowered as in RTW so there can still be a viable 
 combined arms military set up and there dont seem to be as many 'joke' units like war dogs, burning 
 pigs , screaming women , head hurlers, BS warriors and so on.
  There is another 'chosen by CA' style faction though which is ridiculously powerful ,these being 
 the danes featuring mounted priests...
  
  The reason why battles are still inferior to MTW original ones, and yet still better than RTW is 
 down to these two things
  Battle length and AI.
  Its still WAY too quick to end a battle, in RTW is was pretty pathetic, charge into battle and 
 within 2 minutes your (more likely theres) troops would be running away. Now in MTW2 this has been 
 improved, you'll probably enjoy the fighting for another minute on top of that, maybe two at a 
 stretch.
  
  The AI, is MUCH MUCH better in MTW2 than in RTW, the enemy AI, get this, will no longer line up 
 its army disregarding its troop composition and placement and march forward. This time the AI will 
 group its army together, have missile units to the front which will be pulled back, calvary usually 
 at the sides infantry in center, problem- well the passive AI bug upon release killed of most of 
 the battle fun (this was were the enemy AI would stand still almost the entire battle allowing 
 the player to shoot every. single. solider.) and the AI sitll seems illprepared to fight a defensive 
 fight when compared to the original MTW (i frequently remember the AI moving its army when i got 
 near forcing me to change my battle plans) and the AI in the campaign mode is pretty horrid.
  Another plus though is that this time on very hard the AI no longer gets cheating bonuses as seen 
 in RTW, (on very hard battle difficult in RTW the AI would fight exactly the same except would 
 get insane combat bonuses to give the illusion of a better AI opponent) , in MTW2 the AI fights 
 better, i can give examples were the AI was fighting (infantry army with missile units as english 
 stakes deployed to guard flanks) and the AI used its cavalry to peel of the overly eager front 
 line units of my army (think duke of normandy style here) before exploiting the newly formed gap 
 in my lines with light infantry followed by heavy infantry really giving a good fight.
  Unfortunately, theres still a tendancy for the AI general to go on a suicidal charge! although 
 hardly as often as in the awful RTW.
  
  A few more criticisms, MTW2 feels unfinished, and this is backed up by the INSANE 650mb + patch!!!! 
 and also some factions dont even have unit voice overs! its silly that the Turks dont get battle 
 speeches, and seem to have had less time put into developing this faction considering that Turkey 
 became a superpower towards the end of the period in MTW2 and was easily the most powerful country 
 in the world at the time. And another irritant, why is the replay system still broken from RTW? 
 they change it from STW + MTW 1 saving a battle which would be viewed as a movie to the computer 
 saving each order, each click of the mouse, however this creates a replay which wont necessarily 
 (and often does not) follow the actual events of a battle, for example whislt the replay might 
 save the attack order for a group of archers who in the battle may have fired of a few volleys 
 before being killed a decimated group of knights, in a replay the trajectories of each arrow are 
 not saved and so its almost like a entirely new battle , so during one replay it might seem accurate 
 but in more the knights might all get killed before making it to the archers, and so those archers 
 will continue firing vollets of arrows into other units completely different from what actually 
 occured, quite frankly its silly that creative assembly didnt fix this using the excuse 'oh we 
 didnt think it was a big deal'.
  
  The mongolian and Timurid invasions are abit overdone aswell, sure they were excellent warriors 
 but they could still be defeated and yet in MTW2 they appear with 3 silver chevron warriors! every 
 single one!! and they invade in stages so theres one wave of mongol invaders, then another, then 
 later on the timurids who are just as bad.
  Why is this bad you might ask? surely it gives a challenge? well not when aeastern AI cannot save 
 it self from destruction and half the map falls into mongol hands, and get this, since theyre a 
 'hoard' faction once you take there last city huge stacks of mongols spawn out of the capture d 
 city all 3 silver chevron warriors again.....
  
  Also the whole 'new world' scenario takes so long to get to that the game has long past its exciting 
 time by that stage you're going to be so powerful you might not even feel a need to go to the new 
 world to destroy the Aztecs .
  
  And perhaps the most harmful part to MTW2 longevity, where the hell are multiple campaign starts? 
 why must we all start from the VERY beginning each time we want a new campaign? what happened to 
 MTW1's 'early' 'high' and 'late' campaign starts?
  this is SO badly needly in MTW2, its very boring starting again each time, do you want to play 
 hours and hours and hours jsut so you can get to the new world discovery? maybe the gunpowder discovery? 
 It would lend itself so well to the campaign to, 'early' from the beginning, high after the mongol 
 invasions prior to the timurid and gunpowder, and late for after the timurids and just before the 
 new world discovery.
  As it stands though its one or nothing, and its truly hurts the lifespan of the game.
  
  So 
 overall a massive improvement over RTW, still not as good as MTW, and thats just sad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kittek
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 30, 2007 12:57 pm PT
Review:  Medieval Total War 2 is a great for anyone who likes strategy games. You can start with one of 
 the five kingdoms in Europe. Venice, France, England, Spain and The holy Roman empire. In time 
 you can unlock any other faction in Europe except the Aztecs in America, Rebels and a couple of 
 tribes from south-east. The graphics are very great. The best part is when you zoom to your men 
 during battle. The game is very much the same as Rome Total War, except for better graphics, more 
 factions and more troops. The pope plays and important role. You will receive mission from him 
 and he can even send you on a crusade. Going on a Crusade means starting a war with the country 
 occuping the selecter province, but you can get templar mercenaries. You reputation with the pope 
 will grow. The muslims can call their own Holy war and it works pretty much the same as a Crusade. 
 The game has a couple of bugs here and there, but putting bugs aside this game is very great. Every 
 fan of Rome Total War will like this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SirTacobell
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 30, 2007 5:28 am PT
Review:  Ive played through all the games, from Shogun Total War all the way through now. This game is amazing. 
 Theres no other one like it in the series, it just blew my mind away. There is so much improvement 
 between the game titles its just incredible. Sega has really outdone themselves on this one. Im 
 very proud. The amount of different units to create and the weaknesses and strengths of each country 
 has even improved from game to game. I am highly anticipating the expansion pack for the game and 
 I am also confident that it will be as good as the original. Once again congratulations Sega keep 
 up the great work! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nkmq
Rating: 9
Date: May 24, 2007 1:39 am PT
Review:  It is the best strategy game i ever seen, since it started with shogun until this last one Medieval 
 2, but in all parts i feel the diplomatic is useless like i make an alliance with one faction and 
 i married him one of the princess and after a while he turn on me !!! specially if we are next 
 to each other.
  plus i have some thoughts i hope you like it: for example i can play with the general or one of 
 the soldier inside the battle like Joan of Arc or Gothic (one of role game) or let the two heroes 
 face each other before the battle begin ( and it is better to be optional ) also i can choose the 
 weapon and armor forms and type of the hero , and i can also play with the assassin during killing 
 mission (optional also) , second one we can add more strategic plans like pushing the rocks from 
 the high of the hill towards the soldiers down of it, traps , sleeves, etc....
  also it will be better if they differentiate between the heros in the look because all Europe heros 
 look the same, at least change the armour type. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nuttss
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 23, 2007 9:26 am PT
Review:  The nice guy bad buy generals biases the game towards dread. Do you really want to allow your captured 
 enemies to go and fight them later the same turn? Plus, sacking cities funds your conquest. Perhaps 
 my biggest complaint are with diplomats. Seems all my diplomats are religious zealots. Why does 
 that impair there ability to negotaite with others of the same faith? Further, the chances to improve 
 a princess's attributes are slim; if you have multiples you might as well park them and forget 
 them. Diplomacy seems to be mis-implemented in this series.
  
  Other than that the game plays great and I love the extra visuals. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alannoor
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 22, 2007 1:45 am PT
Review:  one of the best games ever .. to all who loves strategy games .. u should try it ... i made england 
 the bigest impire on earth.. the other nations hade no chance aganest me... if u like the feeling 
 of taking control .. so this is the right game ... its little diffrent from the privious game rome 
 total ware .. here u can use riligon to control the people of your owne and other cities ... and 
 there is a vidio show appearing when your assasin kills an enemy charecter .. you can play this 
 game over and over and will never be tyerd 
::::::

::::::
UserName: El_Conquest
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 21, 2007 12:04 pm PT
Review:  This one is a very long learn, and I can believe that some people can become expert quickly due 
 to experience in the series. I usually start most any game using the most simple things first and 
 then quickly ramping up to meet the computer to make it a showdown in the late epics. Though since 
 this game has only three distinct eras, I don't suggest that you start that way. There are three 
 ways to get acquainted with this game, since the most challenging thing will be to micromanage 
 things; winning battles is quite easy even when you set the computer to the medium difficulty, 
 so ramp this to hard to create some challenge for yourself. When you first get the game and start 
 it most will try the historical battles, which are very well done except that a rendtion of a battle 
 such as Agincourt is never going to be to scale, and King Henry V is much more inspiring than what 
 is put into that battle. Just a note don't be surprised at the level of stupidty the AI plays at 
 in some battles; I am sometimes able to pick every unit off the AI before they even attack me (that 
 is if they even attack me) , most the time they just huddle in the background hiding behind the 
 archers they create as if that's always going to win, I usually encounter this when they siege 
 a settlement and don't even notice that they are outnumbered and sometimes out gunned. if you start 
 a campaign, which can be played with short or long rules. The difference is basically short games 
 are feasibly won with a few goals that win you the game, and a very long and usually war ridden 
 game to get sometimes impossible goals for say Scotland (not saying that the scots couldn't achieve 
 this it's just very difficult to aquire such territory) . The micromanegment in the game is quite 
 simplistic, I usually have games where all I do is micromange things and when I get to end the 
 turn its as if the war aspect was not even there. This game is a pioneer in that it combines basic 
 strategy with battle Tactics, a combination that seem no one tries and one which I love to play. 
 The battle scences are very well done, wheather its a flank of archer's plowing the way for my 
 cavalry to tear apart the enemy spearmen or if its my cannons litteraly collapsing enemy lines 
 its all there and if you have a video card and CPU that's good enough, things come in crystal clear 
 and hastle free. As for me I don't have that kinda thing avalible due to a non factor in money 
 on my part. All in all this game is one to get if your a die hard fan of battles and don't like 
 the micromangement aspects of something like Civ 4 or Galciv. It grows on you the more you play 
 it and soon enough you can be a battle champion just like William the Conqueror with enough practice 
 you might even be able to speak like the guy.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: androooze
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 15, 2007 12:18 pm PT
Review:  The best thing about the game is the replay value... I mean sure when you beat a game its rewarding. 
 But when you beat a game with every country it kicks @$$. The game never gets old because everything 
 that happens is controlled by you. When you think you have the game beat and its getting old the 
 Mongels come in trample the S (-) it outta units left and right. It's better then CandC ill say that 
 much... I work full time and when I come home I'll conquer another country, oh and theres no beating 
 this game it goes on forever  
::::::

::::::
UserName: J_J_Efferies
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 13, 2007 12:03 pm PT
Review:  Medieval 2: Total war envelops you in a warm fuzzy blanket of war, diplomacy, and religion as you 
 lead massive armies over many continents including: Europe, the Americas, and Africa. As you lead 
 your country in and out of wars, alliances, and regions on the map, you will find new countries, 
 resources, and just plain interesting things along the way all in stunning detail, if you have 
 the machine to run it. Medieval 2: Total War is a great buy for any gamer with a love of RTS and 
 medieval war. In Medieval 2: Total War, there are several game modes in which you can play. Campaign 
 mode offers you the experience of running your own nation. You can choose from a limited number 
 of factions including: France, England, The Holy Roman Empire, Spain, and Venice. All of which 
 offer different buildings, characters, units, and popes. You can rule your empire with an iron 
 fist, a heart of gold, or a brain for strategy. Deal in trade and diplomacy with other factions 
 that surround you and form alliances, or make enemies and go to war. News is given to you at the 
 beginning of each turn by little boxes that drop down the side of the screen for you to read. Reading 
 them is not mandatory, but it helps. You see where your characters are on the map by little people 
 representing your characters. Gameplay is turn based in this game mode, but still exciting none 
 the less, especially when you engage in the massive battles consisting of thousands of troops. 
 Cities in this game really shine through also; when you besiege your enemy or they besiege you. 
 However, these battles and cities can only be truly appreciated if you have a beefy machine.
  
  Campaign mode does have downsides to it though. The advisors which I talk about again later 
 get VERY annoying after a while, and the battle advisor reminds me a little bit of Nigel Thornberry 
 off of that old Nickelodeon show I used to watch. Also, the more factions that become visible because 
 of your conquesting, the longer it takes to get back to your turn; you can turn off the CPU players 
 move, but then you dont know if your settlements are besieged, or what armys get attacked until 
 you read all of those little message things that drop down the side of the screen that half the 
 time you dont even read because they just tell you boring stuff. Instead of turning them off, 
 I could make the little people on the map run, but then they move really fast and stuff is hard 
 to keep up with. However, overall campaign mode is very enjoyable and very fun to play.
  
  Other game modes in Medieval 2: Total War are, Tutorial Mode, Custom &amp; Quick battle modes, 
 and Historical Battle mode. In Tutorial Mode, you are told how to do everything form select units 
 to how to withdraw them form a battle. Still, you dont have to play these, I did to write the 
 review, but in the game they have advisors which sit there and tell you the most obvious things 
 about everything. Advisors can be turned off, or dismissed all together and only come around 
 when you need them though. In Custom battle mode, you set up your own battle, and I mean you set 
 up everything from the weather, to the amount of troops in each army. The battles you create here 
 can get pretty big and are very fun to play just like the rest of the game. In quick battle mode, 
 you play a randomly generated battle that can be very small, or very large, you never know what 
 it will be like. Finally in historical battle mode you can play a real battle that happened way 
 back when and decide the fate of history once again. Not really but theres not a very big selection 
 of battles, and I honestly thought that there wasnt much difference in it and normal battles. 
 So still cool, but not the funnest part of the game.
  
  The units in Medieval 2: Total War are all individually animated so that you can see the look on 
 your units face as cavalry charges towards them and they face possible death. There are over 200 
 different varieties of units from which you can choose to play in any mode, unless the army is 
 pre-created. The battles are stunning and you can zoom in close down to the ground to get a close 
 look at the action unfolding, and you can view replays of your battle if its an amazing victory 
 that came out of no where, or just a really cool battle. You need a very big machine to run it 
 thought. My tuned out computer runs it, and really all I did was add in a new graphics card. Its 
 just a stock Optliplex 745 with a really good graphics card and a VEI cable. So really if you have 
 a newer computer is should run it.
  
  Online multiplayer battles in this game are powered by Gamespy. So you will need an account to 
 play. The multiplayer function is pretty fun, but dont try it with dial-up, it wont work. Thats 
 really all I have to say about it.
  
  Medieval 2: Total War is one of the best RTS games out there. It beats its older brothers and sisters 
 and is eye candy to anyone with a good enough machine to run it. All the game modes and units are 
 just great. With an expansion pack on the way, lets hope its as good as the base. Medieval 2: 
 Total War gets a 9.2/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bagge87
Rating: 9
Date: May 13, 2007 11:09 am PT
Review:  This is the very best, of the best! why have a army on 40 men when you can make a army on 4000? 
 when you see the armies clash together, it makes you feel like like a true king or a general, when 
 i played with the Danes... i was feeling home, true viking power! NOW that's what you need to couquar 
 the know world!! But why stop ad the know world... when we can go to, the knew world! (America)
 
  
  If you like strategy.... BUY!!! If you like legends... BUY!!!
  
  And if you hate another country and wonna see it burn or great.... BUY!!!
  
  - Bagge87 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wardudex
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jul 9, 2007 3:37 pm PT
Review:  this game has all the aspects that make a next generation game. the graphics, the game play, and 
 its addictive features. one has to go buy this game to experience the history of the medieval era. 
 To play with the ancient superpowers like France, Germany, England, The Turks is what makes it 
 the best rts game of the year right next to Rome: total war. The game has the sound to make it 
 a great and dramatic game to play. Having the computer connected to a sound system will make the 
 game experience the best in the world. One has to play this game. All games will be different for 
 the reason that you will control all the relations with other rival nations. Create allies, break 
 alliences, attack your rivials, create total war. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Intense
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 12, 2007 12:35 am PT
Review:  As a fan of the Total War series I wanted to pick this game up for a while, and after a few recommendations 
 I decided t get the Collectors Edition - for &pound;20! How does it compare to the rest of the 
 series?
  
  Gameplay
  
  Medieval II: Total War uses the same basic control system as the Total War games before it, which 
 is an advantage if you've played one before. If, however, this is your first Total War experience 
 be prepared to spend quite a lot of time learning the ropes. Luckily Creative Assembly have thought 
 of this and included a rather useful tutorial, so you'll have nothing to worry about once you've 
 got through that. I only have one gripe with the gameplay aspect of Medieval II - the camera angles 
 leave much to be desired. During the heat of battle I often find myself moving the camera in the 
 wrong direction, which becomes a problem when I want to attack a unit in the distance. Other than 
 that no complaints can be made here.
  
  Graphics
  
  Due to my rather cack computer I'm forced to have every setting in the graphics department to its 
 minimum, and I was surprised to see that everything still looks visually stunning. On the battle 
 screen your units look detailed, clashes are an awesome sight and generally things only slow down 
 when the map gets too crowded, but you'll have to have an enormous army for that to happen. One 
 improvement I've noticed over Medieval's predecessors is the world map - this looks better than 
 ever before. Overall the graphics for the game are top notch even on a low-end computer. I'd love 
 to see the game running on a high-end computer, that would more than likely be mind-blowing.
  
  Sound
  
  As you'd expect all the grunts, clangs, crunches and testosterone-fueled roars 
 are all present, and the voice acting throughout Medieval II is very good indeed. The music isn't 
 anything memorable, it provides a nice atmosphere when you're playing but not a lot more.
  
  Value
  
  I managed to pick up the Collectors Edition of Medieval II: Total War for &pound;20 
 ($40) , which includes a sexy-looking box and a bunch of stuff, including a bonus DVD showcasing 
 how the game was made, a little figurine, a soundtrack CD and a map of the world among other things. 
 I'm sure you'll agree that's fantastic value for money, so personally speaking this gets a 10/10 
 rating. Even if you can't find the game for that price it's well worth picking up regardless, it's 
 an epic game that's well worthy of your time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xkhornet
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 7, 2007 5:13 am PT
Review:  Everything has changed not just the era but also gameplay, sound effect, character animation and 
 managing empire. There is no dobut about that M2TW one of the great RTS game but you can't also 
 deny the fact that it is also a great turn-based strategy game. The graphic may be re-polished but 
 it is highly detailed with better effect and animation. The building are better looking in M2TW. The 
 character now have better colour mixture not just one colour shirts found in ROME Total War. The 
 battle system is unchanged but it is more sophisticated with better graphic. The turn-based strategy 
 map is the one that show the most obvious change in M2Tw. The graphic engine remain but the system 
 how to run your empire has changed. IT is one of the good looking game around. When you start play 
 the game make sure when you have to stop if not so it will drag you whole night. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sridanu
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 7, 2007 1:46 am PT
Review:  The thing about statergy games these days is that they are so predictable. Medieval 2 Total War 
 is no different. If you have played and finished Rome Total War then this game might be just a 
 little bit disappointing to you. Reason being that it is so similar in game play to Rome Total 
 war. Although the developers have made significant changes to Graphics, AI and a lot of other issues. 
 You just keep wondering as you play on whats so different about ROME and MEDIEVAL 2 total war? 
 Answer is not much. Other disappointing aspects to it is that there are no Naval battles. (Something 
 that was available in Imperial Glory) And of course for some reason the game is quite hard to finish 
 even in the easiest level. But still this game gets a good 8/10 for me as it still is a great game 
 filled with epic battles, great graphics and of course the fact that it keeps filling you up with 
 that feeling you get as you slaughter countless enemies to become to supreme ruler of all of Europe. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cipriano18
Rating: 6
Date: May 4, 2007 3:29 pm PT
Review:  Not even close... I might be suspect to say this (because i didn't liked any of the previous Total 
 War Serie's games) but i think this game as a huge lack of originality and it is too much superficial. 
 From politics to religion (passing trough economy) , everything is just to simple and... boring.
 
  The presented territories are not very accurate and are too few... The sound track of the main 
 menu looked promising, but that was it...
  The battlefield mode is hard to handle and the battles are not very exciting... Everything just 
 to superficial, for example, the buildings of the city and the towers on the walls should have 
 the capacity to host battalions, but they don't.
  
  I am not saying it is not a fair game, but there are many better options in this kind of game, 
 Crusader Kings and Knights of Honor are older than MTW2 and still, much more interesting... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hakensou
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 3, 2007 3:57 am PT
Review:  Medieval lives up to it's crown... An awesome game, with very good graphics, a well designed playability, 
 with multiple choices of how to become the Emperor of Europe.
  I really love this game. Althought I don't think it brings so much new stuff to the series, it 
 still is the best title of the saga so far. Imagine marching your army all across Europe and North 
 Africa. Well with this game you no longer have to imagine that... Defeat countless hordes of rebels 
 or use diplomacy to form alliances, create ports and shipyards in your towns to advance and increase 
 trade, attack enemies of the State or defend the glory of your conquers, you can do it all and 
 so much more with this huge title of war.
  My friends, if you enjoy spending hours creating the perfect empire throught force, honor and blood, 
 then this is the game for you.
  I only have one thing I can say didn't please me in this game and that was the fact that you have 
 few factions to chose from at the start. But I guess if you get the expansion, this issue becomes 
 resolved.
  Choose the faith of Europe in this realtime strategy game ( in battle mode at least ) . For King 
 and Country!
  Make war the way it was ment to be... Just plain fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrMike99
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 23, 2007 9:47 am PT
Review:  M2TW is definitely the best in the series and one of the best in its genre. It blends politics 
 and warfare very well providing huge scale battles and intricately detailed units. You can see 
 each units' individual battle for survival on the field and all are excellently well choreographed. 
 As well as great graphics M2TW has excellent soundtracks. Although there are some problems regarding 
 the AI, this game will not disappoint. If you are planning on playing multiplayer in M2TW think 
 again. There isn't a very big multiplayer community and battles often lag loads. The grand campaign 
 is well designed good custom battles can be easily created. The huge variety of Infantry, cavalry, 
 archers and artillery provides great depth for the game. Overall this is a great game which should 
 not be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sparten1012
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 23, 2007 3:05 pm PT
Review:  M2TW is a Game hat bets all the rest of the TW seres 20 times over. It sow good that no Strategy 
 gamer could tern away from. The Graphic dital is amazing It will astoned you. the period of time 
 it covers is astonding the Graetist game in the pc for SG gamers. The new twist of Castles, Citys 
 and the new world make this TW unlike eney other TW before. thougt it is Difficult in the beginning 
 and has a longe Learning Curve but its far from a gamekiller. In the end its a great game My personal 
 favorite game enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: floridajoe03
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 22, 2007 5:18 pm PT
Review:  This is no doubt a great and addicting game. The Total War developers has always combined Strategy 
 and Real Time elements into the series. Thus creating a unique and addicting gameplay experience. 
 Tremendous graphics take this game to a new height in strategy game history. This game isn't just 
 slash and burn with awesome military might, you also use diplomacy, trade, and religion to control 
 Western and Eastern Europe, the Middle East, and North Africa. There are many unique units for 
 the many different factions in the game. There is one flaw in the AI of the game. (A part of the 
 game that Total War inc. must have skipped)
  Examples:
  
  Battle: 1) The enemy seems to enjoy annoying you by waiting for you to come to them for instances 
 for up to 10 minutes. *_* 2) Your allies on the field seem to stand in their place while your army 
 gets slaghtered by the enemy.
  
  Grand Campaign Map: 1) Other factions seem to go to war with you for no good reason. 2) Other factions 
 almost never help you fight another faction, even if they promised to they wouldn't help anyways. 
 -Floridajoe03 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NewCode12
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 22, 2007 9:24 am PT
Review:  NOTE: Because this review is so long, Gamespot has automatically removed all indentations, thus 
 making a wall of text. I apologize. After rave reviews, I decided to buy Company of Heroes, the 
 World War II real-time strategy game from the renowned RTS developer, Relic. Not long after, I 
 bought Medieval II: Total War, enchanted by the epic battle scenes. Among the two games, Medieval 
 II has shown itself to be the pinnacle of excellence: it provides more than enough content to keep 
 the game enjoyable for hour upon hour. In Company of Heroes, one plays as one of two warring armies, 
 and battle it out for an hour on a single map in which they generate hundreds of men out of small 
 buildings and dozens of tanks out of thin air. They then blast the feces out of eachother. In Medieval 
 II, a standard ten-minute battle involves two or more armies of opposing alliances or mixed association 
 lining up in a parade formation and, also, removing feces in a violent fashion. Multiple units 
 of from twenty to a few hundred infantry, archers, cavalry, and artillery gather in an easily modified 
 deployment - thus adding up to as much as tens of thousands of soldiers (on godly systems, of course) . 
 In a standard battle , five hundred to two thousand men will engage eachother; the player can dictate 
 down to the unit the methods of destruction, thus allowing a grand amount of tactical variation; 
 not to mention the hundreds of varying types of units that can be used. And that's just in the 
 field battle phase. In Company of Heroes, one can enjoy a skirmish battle on one of ten maps or 
 a short, linear campaign on variable difficulties. In Medieval II, one can enjoy a quick battle 
 with random armies and random units; a custom battle with chosen armies and units on a chosen map 
 (of which twenty or so are available) ; or the Grand Campaign mode, which truly lives up to its 
 title. There is also a small multiplayer component, of which we will return to later. In the campaign 
 mode, one chooses a nation; dozens are available, each with varying playing styles befitting the 
 initial location and military make-up. The grand campaign spans all of western and central Europe 
 - including the Iberian Peninsula, Italy, and Denmark, along with North Africa, most of Eastern 
 Europe, some of Russia, and western Middle East. In turn-based style, the player will lead their 
 nation to global victory in either the short campaign or the long campaign. In the short campaign, 
 the player is charged with destroying one or two opposing nations and capturing a small amount 
 of territory (usually fifteen regions) , and normally lasts six-to-ten hours. The long campaign 
 involves capturing one or two specific regions (such as Jerusalem or Rome) , and a large amount 
 of territory (usually forty-five regions) , and normally lasts fifteen-to-thirty hours. During the 
 Grand Campaign, the player moves armies of differing make up across the medieval lands, entering 
 the previously described battle phase when they engage enemy armies or towns. Towns and castles 
 are the basis of territory in the campaign; towns provide money while castles provide advanced 
 troops. To capture territory, one must siege a town, thus entering a battle phase in which the 
 player maneuvers siege weapons (rams, towers, ladder, trebuchets, catapults and eventually cannons 
 of all sorts) to bring down the walls of the besieged settlement. Troops must the enter the breach, 
 thus commencing a battle that also gives room for all kinds of tactical improvisation. Joining 
 armies in the grand campaign are merchants, diplomats, assassins, spies, and princesses, all of 
 which have some strategic value. Merchants are somewhat useless; they can be positioned over a 
 resource and they will generate a small amount of florins (the global currency, in this case) until 
 they die of age or are bankrupted by an opposing merchant. Diplomats are necessary; they, unsurprisingly, 
 negotiate with other nations, to appeal ceasefires, alliances, or all manner of territory-bartering 
 and bribing. Assassins assassinate; they can be useful, but are not all that necessary. Spies spy; 
 these are as useless as merchants, as anyone can see into an enemy army or town given proximity. 
 Princesses can be used as diplomats, or marry another nation's prince to cement an alliance. All 
 campaign units, including generals, evolve in an RPG-like fashion. A general who sieges often will 
 gain a siege instructor, and have a bonus to command while a sieging. A priest that executes heretics 
 may be joined by a witchhunter, and will become more pious. A prince that kills prisoners and burns 
 towns will be awarded dread, and may soon have an executor following in his wake. A general you 
 use on the forefront will soon become a great commander given many victories; a governor you leave 
 at the capital will soon wallow in laziness, becoming corrupt and disillusioned.
  
  In the battle phase, you can zoom in and out and examine at the soldier's level. The game looks 
 very nice at this level, and runs smoothly on older computers. At the campaign phase, the icons 
 are what you would expect from a turn-based view, but textures could have been more realistic. 
 Sound, from the horn of cavalry charging into a spear wall, or the whistle of flaming arrows flying 
 past your screen, are all very good; sadly, you must be zoomed in a good bit to hear the chaos 
 of battle. In some aspects, the user interface is somewhat clunky, but this has been exaggerated 
 a good bit; everything works very well. Overall, Medieval II: Total War is an excellent real-time 
 and turn-based strategy game, with plenty of replay value, and deserves merit in all aspects. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: emonster5k
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 20, 2007 11:38 pm PT
Review:  There is a lack of speed in all of the units. The whole combo concept of the battle sequences ruins 
 the game-play. It was better in rome when it was a simple stab and fall procedure. The cavalry 
 is poor and even heavily armoured cavalry can be destroyed by town militia. There also needs to 
 be a wider variety of unit selection. Opposing cavalry forces often stand by one another without 
 attacking anything, making the battles frustratingly long and a waste of money. I am pretty irritated 
 that the second patch still hasn't come out yet. There needs to be more factions to choose from. 
 A great feature of the game would be to make your own custom faction and to be able to be placed 
 randomly on the map. Once you get past the early stages of the game it really picks up and will 
 make you addicted. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigXow
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 17, 2007 1:21 pm PT
Review:  a game where i can have the power of the known world in my hands... it's just amazing... and its 
 the first RTS where im proud of being Portuguese and play with the Portuguese nation... its really 
 an addictive game... and worth buying and playing... i loved the RPG part of the game where you 
 can upgrade and level up your army and governors... the possibility of battle automaticly to spare 
 time with stupid battles where you have like 900 men against 100 enemy men... i've never played 
 a TW game before and i loved this one... another thing that's pretty good in the game is the allies 
 and enemies part... doing allies to win power... to win respect... to have some back up when it 
 all falls apart... and the religion is a very cool element in this game... resuming its probably 
 the best RTS i've played... =D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gallego
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 17, 2007 6:27 pm PT
Review:  Medieval 2: TW is the latest installment if the Total War franchise. It is a remake of a previous 
 version, Medieval Total War. Now, like every remake, there are a lot of changes, hopefuly for the 
 good of the game. So let's get right down to it:
  
  THE CHANGES:
  
  Before I get into more in detail about the game, let's start with the most important change that 
 the player will see. Of course, that is if the player has played the original version. A huge change 
 from the previous version is the graphical update. We finally get to experience the huge world 
 of Medieval times in 3D realistic looking format! A welcomed enhancement. Another huge change, 
 is the strategy map. Its not the same as the orginal version, rather very similar to the one introduced 
 in Rome Total War. Now we get a realistic 3D map, which I will go into detail later. Another new 
 change, the player can choose to build two things, Castles, or Cities. More on this later on. One 
 last change, NO MORE CLONE WARS!!! This time, the new system allows for every battle unit displayed 
 on the battle map to be unique in every way. Right then, let us move on:
  
  THE GOOD: (quite a few)
  
  - Map -
  
  The first thing I would like to talk about is the 
 strategy map. Players who have played Rome TW, will feel right at home with this map (feel free 
 to skip this part) , but for those who haven't, here's a quick reference to why this new map is 
 cool. First off, now you have realistic 3D looking units, cities, and scenery. You will enjoy looking 
 at the map more than anything else. It is as if you where flying through the sky, looking at the 
 troubles that unfold below. Now you can see everything, from your trading carts, to a storm on 
 the sea, nothing escapes your watchful eyes. Or rather, your line of sight. ;) Like many RTS games, 
 you don't have a complete view of the map, instead you must explore to see what its going on, on 
 different places of the world. So how do you see what your busy so-called-allies are doing? Well, 
 build some towers. You can literally build watch towers in strategic places to expand your line 
 of sight, that way you might just spot an on coming assault on time to prepare yourself. Also, 
 all units in the strategy map have some sort of line of sight. For example, Spies. They have the 
 biggest line of sight, so it might be wise to bring one or two with your armies, that way you can 
 spot an enemy ambush beforehand. Enough about that, you want to learn about two new things, Castles 
 and Cities.
  
  - Expanding Your Nation -
  
  There are a lot of ways to expand your nation, but since you are a great general, you already know 
 that you need a strong economy to have a strong army. In Medieval 2, CA has given us two ways to 
 accomplish this. First off, Cities, and what are its benefits and downfalls.
  
  Cities allow for more income to come to your nation, in other words, more money. It allows for 
 a small build of military units, but it is within a city where your agents are build. By that I 
 mean, Spies, Merchants (more on them later) and so on. But don't look here for strong military 
 units. A City is where your economy expands, your culture enriches and your people rejoice with 
 happiness. So in brief, Cities give you more income for your nation. Now castles are a different 
 thing. Castles have a modest income, but don't expect a lot. Rather, it is within the walls of 
 a Castle where your weapons are builded, and your men are trained for war and chaos! Within these 
 walls, you can upgrade your armor, swords and the like. Castles also provide a strong stronghold 
 that your enemies must defeat before your nation is brought to ruins. So, you know what Castles 
 do, you know what Cities do, but how to decide what to build? Easy. Use castles to defend your 
 states that border other nations, sort of building a wall of fortresses on your borders. Have your 
 cities safe and sound behind, or inside your nation, where you can safely develop your cities and 
 get a bigger income. Once you expand your borders, build Castles on that new territory. Your old 
 Castles that no longer need to be there can be better used for something else. Thankfuly, as a 
 player, you are given the option to turn a Castle into a City, and a City into a Castle. So don't 
 be afraid to do this. One last thing, always leave a Castle close to your orginial starting point, 
 since most likely that Castle is fully developed. So its a good idea to keep a Castle like that. 
 To sum my point up, build a wall of Castles around your nation and have your Cities safe inside 
 that wall. Once you expand, your old wall becomes Cities, since you are already developing another 
 wall on your new borders. And lastly, leave a Castle or two close by your original starting point, 
 since most likely you will have fully developed this Castle (s) , therefore, being able to build, 
 and re-stock your armies with fresh advanced strong units.
  
  Just remember this, a strong economy allows for a lot of people from different walks of life to 
 be attracted to your nation, therefore helping you to expand your cities and castles. You need 
 a certain number of population to upgrade your cities and castles. With a strong economy, you will 
 be able to build a strong army. So have that in your mind at all times. But, just how do I build 
 a strong economy?
  
  - Your Economy -
  
  Now, there are quite a few ways to expand your economy, either be by conquering other territories, 
 or by conquering the world trading market. What ever your style is, here's a quick view at the 
 ways provided.
  
  Conquering other nations is a quick way to expand your economy, but to conquer other places requires 
 money, money that you can loot out of cities and castles. Once you conquer a City or a Castle, 
 you can choose three things, just enter the city (or castle) , loot it, or exterminate the populace. 
 Most likely you will choose option two, infact, I command you to! If you loot the new conquered 
 territory, you get more money, but you don't kill as many populace. If you just enter, you get 
 almost no money, and pretty much kill little, if not none of the populace. If you exterminate them 
 all, you get little money at the cost of killing more than 2/3 of the populace. So option two is 
 your best choice. That is one way to expand your economy, but upgrading your trading markets, ending 
 corruption and making trade agreements with other nation its way better! A trade agreement can 
 be made by sending one of your Emissaries to other nations and offering a mutual trade agreement. 
 Once it is accepted, you will notice a small increase of trade as your market and docks recieve 
 shipment from other nations and you send your shipments as well. Do note this, sea trading is faster, 
 and bigger than land trading, so build docks my friend, lots of docks! Now, like every Total War 
 game, your population happiness has a lot of effect on your economy. A happy person is more caplable 
 of working to benefit your nation, but a mild manered one will think twice! So, a few places of 
 worship, bars and playing arenas should solve this problem. Make sure to always check how the population 
 is feeling because in the end you are not your nation, rather your people are. Merchants. Creative 
 Assembly has introduced a new agent named Merchants. Like the name implies, they trade different 
 resourses. Now Merchants can have a big impact in your economy, if you use them well. Since Merchants 
 don't have a unit upkeep cost, feel free to make them until your hearts content. Send your merhcants 
 to far away lands for the best income in trading. For example, if you are in Spain, send them off 
 to resourses in Egypt or Turkey. Far away from Spain. The farther away a Merchant is from your 
 nation, the more trading income it will produce. If you play your cards right and send a full army 
 of Merchants to far away lands, you can easily produce up to 100k of money every turn. Which means 
 a lot of money for expanding your nation. And that is only a small part of your income. There are 
 a lot of ways to make a strong economy, so feel free to experiment around and choose your best 
 way.
  
  - The Military and The Guilds -
  
  Another new enhancement to Medieval 2 are guilds. If your city or castle meets a certain criteria, 
 a guild will approach you asking to make a headquarter in there which you will gladly accept. Guilds 
 provide for a vareity of different bonuses ranging from army bonuses to economy bonuses. So make 
 sure to take advantage of these. Now, a lot of new units have been introduced in this new installment. 
 Every nation has at least one or two unique units to it. So most likely you will want to explore 
 each nation and its benefits. Like I have said before, Castles is where you want to build your 
 armies. So look there for your best military units. A good army should be balanced, consisting 
 of infantry, cavalry and range units. There is a new way to build armies, well, I lie, it is new, 
 but not soo new. For example, instead of being able to build thousands of the same unit, there 
 is a limit per turn of how many of that unit you can command to train. So this means that you are 
 forced to wait for the units to re-stock so you can build more. The more advance your Castles and 
 Cities are, that limit of unit goes up. Be aware of this.
  
  Once you have build a nice army, its time to move them. Your army, and pretty much every moveable 
 unit, has a movement limit. Once this limit is met, your army cannot travel any further until the 
 next turn. But what if you happened to accidentaly stop in a bad location and cannot go on? Well, 
 build a fort for the night. It allows for your army to rest inside a secure wall of wood, and it 
 forces the enemy to lay siege to the fort, allowing you time to think. To conquer other Cities 
 and Castles, you first must lay siege on them, so make sure you bring some siege units to bring 
 down their walls. Now, the good old battle map!
  
  - Le Battle Map -
  
  When your forces are attacked, or if yoy attack an army, the territory that you see on the strategy 
 map, is the territory that will appear on the battle map. So be picky and find the best spots for 
 your army to fight on. Once you choose to fight the battle yourself, you will be taking to the 
 battle map. Now this is were the hearth of the game is. Since you can experience first hand the 
 carnage of Medieval War! The first thing that you will note, its the cool realistic 3D units that 
 are all unique in every way, so no more clones like in Rome Total War. The battle map controls 
 and options have not changed a lot from different versions of the game, so players who have played 
 this will feel right at home. Others new to it, I recommend that you take the tutorial offered 
 by the game first. You still have your normal move order, stop and run, grouping orders and your 
 special abilities that was introduced in Rome Total War.
  
  Now, once the carnage begins, feel free to zoom in and see first hand how your brave men kill your 
 enemies. Something that has been introduced are finishing moves. So you will literally see how 
 your soldiers do a nice finishing move on an opposing unit. That is pretty much it for the battle 
 map, other than the carnage, feel free to enjoy the scenery while the bloodshed goes on. The new 
 realistic battle maps are a sight to see. - Other Good Stuff -
  
  Make memory back to good old Shogun Total War. Remember those assasin movies? Well now they are 
 back! Once your assasin is ready to kill its target, a nice little movie will pop up and you can 
 see the fate of the target, or the fate of your assasin. Other good stuff, a senate like thing. 
 In Rome TW, the Senate would send you into missions, this time, in Medieval 2, the Counsel of your 
 Nation does the same. So make sure to do some of them. But they will not interfere with your plans, 
 just make sure you make them happy, since they can give you nice rewards.
  
  The Pope gets a nice role this time by. There are elections for the Papacy in which even one of 
 your Cardinals can enter and perhaps win. So in retrospect, you can have some sort of influence 
 in the papacy if your cardinal is voted in as Pope. So take advantage of this feature.
  
  Another thing to add to the other, is the nations that will appear later on in the game. These 
 two are the Mongols and the Tumurids. These are two formittable nations, so be prepare for hell 
 once they come. Just to be safe, make sure you prepare yourself ahead of time, they come strong, 
 very strong and will kick you.
  
  Well I told you this game had a lot of Good to it, now to the bad:
  
  THE BAD:
  
  Nothing 
 new with the bad, except the same problems as previous versions, bugs. The game has quite a few 
 bugs, but not as much as when Rome Total War came out. They are minor bugs and things but nothing 
 big as to influence your gaming experience. Just wait for the patch.
  
  They AI is still toooooo weeeeaaakkk and dumb. For a better experience and challange, play with 
 Very Hard/ Very Hard settings. That way you can be challanged. Now, the most biggest problem is 
 Multiplayer. Multiplayer is similar, if not the same as in Rome total war. But thanks to the Gamespy 
 servers, it will take you at least and hour to get a decent game going. The problem is the incredible 
 lag you get, even if every player has a high speed connection. This a problem that must be fixed 
 pronto! because the Total War series thrives in a rich multiplayer community. The last bad thing 
 I will mention, its that sadly, you will have to upgrade your computer if you're running on 2+ 
 year old technology. On my tests, I found that a low end computer has a lot of problems running 
 this game, but a middle to high end will run it decently. So try to upgrade your set up to something 
 better. Well that's is all, overall this game is very addictive and very enjoyable. You will spend 
 a lot of time playing it, so make sure you free up some time in your schechule.
  
  I give Medieval 2: Total War for the PC a 8.6/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: diesel_dejavu
Rating: 7.2
Date: Apr 16, 2007 4:41 pm PT
Review:  The Total War series is well-done, dont get me wrong. But the hole diplomacy thing is still broken. 
 Why the heck waist time and resources building and sending diplomats around the map building alliances 
 and increasing your standing with nations if they will turn-around and attack you at a moments 
 notice?? And if you attack back and both involved nations are catholic, then the Pope has a fit 
 and and you lose standing with him, leading eventually to excomunication. ??? You mean I get attacked, 
 defend myself, and take over a turn-coat nation's region and I get excommunicated??? who's the 
 bad guy here?? Its a great battle simulator and nice empire building game, but flawed diplomacy 
 limits its legacy in the strategy game genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pwilletts
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 16, 2007 3:51 pm PT
Review:  Following the Total War format, Creative Assembly and SEGA have once again put out one of the best 
 games of the year in Medieval Total War 2. Medieval give you the choice of which different faction 
 you want to use to attempt world domination. Packed with hundreds of hours of game play, M2TW never 
 ceases to amaze the mind. Graphics-What is there to say? Never have units looked as good as they 
 do now. When you can see the sweat on mens faces and close up as blood sprays when calvary slams 
 into enemy infantry unprotected flanks, what more could you want. The graphics seem to work flawlessly 
 through all the animations, and OH the animations. Its always fun to see a soldier deliver the 
 killing blow to his valiant foe. Even at low and medium everything seems to flow smoothly and look 
 great. Even the campaign map looks awesome, mountains, rivers and oceans all look as if they could 
 be real. Game play-Mixing turn based strategy and real time strategy together in one game gives 
 you the best of both worlds. On the campaign map, you control every aspect of your kingdom and 
 if you decide to attack, the game sends you into a RTS type of battle. Despite a great amount of 
 bugs, battles are so enjoyable that you want to keep on fighting forever. The bugs at time can 
 be frustrating but the sheer enjoyment gained from battles overshadows the bugs. Religion plays 
 a huge role this time around, if your faction is Catholic then you are automatically under the 
 control of the Pope. He will send your faction on missions such as, taking certain regions, ceasing 
 war with another catholic country and failure to succeed in these missions eventually leads you 
 to being excommunicated. Excommunication makes you fair game to all Catholic factions. Another 
 thing that is just plain fantastic about M2TW is the videos that are shown any time you send an 
 assassin on a mission. There are around 3-4 basic videos but each one has another 3-4 different 
 endings to them. Everytime you send an assassin on a mission your filled with the excitement of, 
 uh oh, whats going to happen here?
  
  In the main campaign you are give the task of taking over 50 regions or cites, along with that 
 there are certain areas that you must also take in order to accomplish the mission. Believe me, 
 taking over 50 regions is no easy task, the game will give more than a fair share of fun if you 
 decide to make a great choice and pick it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: captain110
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 14, 2007 11:28 pm PT
Review:  Medieval II: Total war is a great realtime strategic game with a true history of the world. The 
 graphic is perfect, music and sounds really rock, and the game play is not Hard nor Easy.
  Although Medieval II is nothing more than Rome: Total War but still makes you play 24hour of day 
 conquering the world. one of the problems which did not exist in Rome is that it is not possible 
 to choose your faction heir and therefore you may come up with a coward unwise King as I experienced.
 
  The characters are more than ROme but some are useless like princesses. The Merchant is also hard 
 to control. But overall its a game you shouldnt miss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hugommorais
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 13, 2007 9:53 am PT
Review:  A incredible game, fantastic in many ways. Obviously has some flaws but a great and immersive game.
 
  The first thing that awes me it's the graphics. Simply put, it's stunning! Battle at night it's 
 incredible, the detail level it's great, every minor component of the scene has an impact (both 
 on the visual and in the game-play) . Every unit has a different reaction to the battles, when you 
 zoom into a fight zone, you see every detail, if you see that the enemy is in a weak position fronting 
 your army, you can send cavalry to their backs and finish them off. The sounds are great and contributes 
 a lot to the sensation of immersion on the game. The generals speeches are fantastic!!!
  The morale has a lot to do with you losing or winning a battle. Even when outnumbered, if you manage 
 to kill the enemy general, that drops the morale of the troops, and with the right moves they can 
 flee from battle and be an easy target.
  Management of the turn base system and battles is great because you never get tired of one or another. 
 If you like to play the game focusing the diplomacy, economic and politics, you can do that, resolving 
 the battles automatically or trying to be so strong in those aspects that you can buy alliances, 
 regions and everything else. If the focus is the battles, it's also possible, putting the AI to 
 control the constructions and all, and focusing on the battles. Anyway, you can't live in one side 
 only, you have to do a little of each part. When you get tired of battling you can micromanage 
 your empire, when you get tired of that you can smash the other factions to run your empire to 
 greatness.
  Religion it's a good addition, crusades and jihads are taking part in the game and you better have 
 a good relation with the pope (in case you choose a catholic faction) .
  The differences between cities and castles are dramatic and you have to manage that well, because 
 castles have a bad economy and strong millitar base, while the cities are the opposite. The ideal 
 is to have less castles but close to cities (1 or 2 turns at most) , so when your cities are attacked 
 you can counter-attack quickly.
  Diplomacy have also improved from RTW, but in many times you feel like the computer AI has no objective 
 or a longterm goal, they only act in random ways. Example: if one ally attacks you and you reload 
 the game to the prior turn, when you end that turn your ally will not attack you anymore. It would 
 be better if the AI had an long term strategy, like invading you in a certain amount of turns, 
 if the conditions don't change that plan would run to that objective in the same time. Just like 
 a human playing that decides to invade a city and has to think on a long term plan to do that.
 
  One thing that is always a major flaw to the game is that there is no naval battle to fight, every 
 naval clash is auto-resolved and that's a shame because there is a lot of potential in that area.
 
  The RTW squalor problem was resolved. Only if you don't do a good management of your cities you 
 will have problems with that.
  When I described the game as immersive, it's because you don't see the time passing when playing, 
 you don't get tired. The problem is that you always think that one more turn will not get a lot 
 of time, but every new turn, something different happens and you want to solve the problems or 
 the threats to your empire. Then you go to a new turn to see the results of your actions and everything 
 starts again. It's great and the grand campaign it's really huge, basically you have to rule almost 
 the entire world to be victorious.
  That's a game that makes you think during the day, what you will do to prevent the Mongols, or 
 the Englishes or anyone else from destroying you, that has you thinking all day long in strategies 
 to be the ruler of the world. If you like strategy, that's your game, if you like the massive battles, 
 that's your game. If you like to balance both, that game it's fantastic for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GLoad
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 12, 2007 5:12 pm PT
Review:  I'm already a big fan of all of the Total War series, but the recent Rome ones very quickly got 
 trapping and with some races didn't give nearly enough time to consolidate. This one fixes almost 
 everything and the fight sequences are brilliant looking and the depth of strategy is great when 
 you take the time to try a few different approaches. You CAN enjoy this game straight away, but 
 experiment and save regularly as it had lots of layers.
  
  The only complaint I have is that the computer is a little predictable making it important to explore 
 different approaches to your relationships with the other races. I also don't like the fact that 
 in most cases you really need to wipe out the locals otherwise the town becomes unmanagable which 
 means you generals can't really maintain anything but dread. At first diplomacy is predictable 
 and seems pointless when people just attack anyway and the pope makes life difficult, but when 
 you get the hang of it (and make a point of paying tributes to your neighbours early to get good 
 ratings if you don't want to fight - it's useless any other way) it really makes the hard settings 
 of gameplay fun and needing some thought. DON'T bother with the new feature of ungoverned settlements. 
 I always click Manage all cities at the start of campaigns as all the computer does is blow all 
 your cash recruiting lame troops which is impossible to store up cash for a campaign against a 
 bigger power and hard manage when you have a lot of territory in the grand campaign.
  
  DON'T start playing with any race that starts way east (Russia, Turks, Egypt, Byzantine and even 
 Hungary) until you are experienced or you set the game to easiest. The Mogolians invade with a 
 huuuge amount of troops and take constant defence, loosing a city or 2 and a samish battle every 
 2nd turn. While this can get frustrating, it's all part of it and adds some challenges when you're 
 sick of the pope and european knights.
  
  All round I love this game and have spend far too many hours on playing it. If you want to stop 
 partying and save some money, lock into this one - you'll be at home every weekend for months. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -daniel-
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 12, 2007 6:29 am PT
Review:  TW series is by far one of the greatest series ever been created for the PC, and Medieval 2 keep 
 proving that.
  
  Even if you never played TW before its not that hard to understand this game, actullay its pretty 
 easy once you get it right.
  
  This game also added some fun and important values like merchantes princess priests and witches. 
 The Pope is also a great addition to the game.
  I can't tell how many hours I spent trying to capture another town form the veneziens empire and 
 watching as the world keep falling piece after piece to my hugh empire.
  
  The graphic are amazing and the battles never seen better.
  
  Stop whatever you do and go and 
 purchase this  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IACEI
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 10, 2007 1:39 am PT
Review:  I played this game not too long ago. So far I find the graphics good, music is nice too! I had 
 played RTW, so far so good. KEEP IT UP!
  
  Well, the game play was great just the naval battle part is kinda of bored. I don't get to battle 
 in sea battle as on land. Its always auto-resolve. Perhaps when the next game comes up with that 
 addition it would be great!
  
  Another thing is I cannot view my town and castle while on map.
  
  One last thing, the faction 
 heir is always not the person I would want to be the kind : (
  
  I am still playing England which took me quite sometime to really get used to the game, eg exocommunicate 
 etc.
  
  Cheats is nice when you just got bored of not getting enough money to sponser your army to war 
 :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carsonfb
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 8, 2007 11:17 am PT
Review:  The latest Total War is the best, in every aspect. GAMEPLAY- MTW2 brings you the most realistic 
 Medieval combat simulation ever made. And the funnest. In the Campaign, you choose from a few western 
 kingdoms, and begin your time of conquering and conquest. you start with a few regiments of basic 
 soldiers, and a few cities and villages. rebels are all around, and it is fairly easy to take their 
 land. usually. after you begin to manage and govern your growing empire, you begin to make armies 
 of better soldiers and siege weapons. and fellow factions will send messengers, even princesses, 
 to request several friendly actions. from trade rights, to map viewing, to a Military alliance. 
 you can even ask for them to attack certain factions, and even to give you a piece of their land. 
 and then, two enemy armies meet. the battles are the most well done combat sequences in the history 
 of all gaming. the strategic value, is completely perfect.
  
  GRAPHICS- Armies of soldiers clash with a resounding ring. the front rank almost immediately goes 
 down. a small wall of bodies grows, and the soldiers stab and swing over it. arrows rain into the 
 fray, and men fall to the knees grasping the narrow rods through their chest. a two-handed swordsman 
 cleaves a soldiers spear in half, and kicks him to the ground with an armored boot. the disarmed 
 spearman cringes away screaming for mercy. the swordsman brings his sword high and slams it down 
 into the man's chest. calvary sweeps into the battle, their lances lowered and slaying all who 
 do not escape. The cross on their shields shines with the zealous light in the eyes of their open 
 helmet as they fight for god. this is just an understatement of the pure perfection of the battle 
 scenes, all done in gorgeous graphics. blood splatters on the attackers armor when he runs an enemy 
 through. the clothing of soldiers rip when weapons slash them. it is beauty of war.
  
  SOUND- taunts, screams, resounding rings of blade on shield. it completes the ambiance of war which 
 is so splendidly done in medieval total war. you hear the arrows thunk into flesh and the wood 
 of shields, and blades riping their way into someone's ribs produces a ghastly sound of flesh separating. 
 war horns sound when you give the order to attack or fall back. you even hear the general give 
 the command that you order, attack them quickly! or fall back into pike formation! 
  
  VALUE- with so many soldiers types, so many castles, empires, armies, provinces, weapons, battles, 
 it's hard to get tired of this game.
  
  closing comment-
  this game masters the art of war, but will you? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blazer88
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 8, 2007 5:02 am PT
Review:  Medieval 2: Total War is the second time the Creative Assembly has made a game in this period. 
 It is not really a sequal though and rather an updated and improved version of the last game, but 
 more than enough so to warrant the purchase of it if you have played the older version.
  This game is hybrid of turn-based and real time strategy, a match made in heaven I tell you. As 
 any strategy gamer will tell you RTS's alone often lack the complexity of what can be done in a 
 tune based game because it is too hard hard to do that kind of stuff in a constantly fast paced 
 environment. No problem with that here. The game plays out on a, very large map that covers all 
 of Europe and much more. The management of you lands take place here, which includes such things 
 as city management, and interactions with other civilizations, good or bad. The battle on the other 
 hand are done in real time. It all works out pretty great and fans of both types of games should 
 be happy.
  There is a whole lot to do in this game and it is not for the faint of heart. If you dispise micromanagement 
 you probably won; t have a whole lot of fun, though you can choose to atuomate your cites, and can 
 even have the comp play automatically resolve you battles, though i would no suggest you choose 
 that option because I can assure you that even if it wins it will do so in a way that cause you 
 to sustain more losses than you would if you were in command.
  In this game, like so many other, you choose a faction and do what you can to survive in the world. 
 It is based on history a little more so than other games that have this premise. You will not , 
 for, instance ever be teching up to modern day weapons and instead will have to use what was availibale 
 in the time period. No big deal though, you won't miss it. Like I said there is a lot to do already, 
 running a kingdom after all is not an easy task. There are 21 factions in this game with the religion 
 being the element that splits them since this is of course the period where the crusades took place, 
 and yes you will be asked to participate in them. That however is the least of your worries as 
 this was also an incredibly violent period in history so al the while while the pope maihgt be 
 asking you to help take back the holy lands you have to worry about your nieghbors too. War is 
 only part of the game though of course and there is trade that can be, spying, assassinations, 
 there are even priest units that can denounce other for being witches and heritics.
  It should also be mentioned that there are unplayable factions such as the Papal states which is 
 like the faction of the Pope, and the Mongols who also invade during this time. There is just so 
 much that can go on this game I doubt I will even scratch the surface of in this review, but trust 
 the game is pretty awsome. If your new it may seem a little daunting at first, but after you get 
 some game time in it all becomes pretty routine. Overall this is a really great game though that 
 I am having a ton of fun playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: qwerty11786
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 6, 2007 3:23 pm PT
Review:  Well where to begin. I suppose I should start with the graphics, as that was the only real downfall 
 of the first Total War: Medieval. The graphics TW: Medieval 2 are superb. They are outstanding. 
 They are unbelievable. When you buy the game, or if you've played the game with a PC that can handle 
 it, you'll know exactly what I mean. Before I bought the game I looked at the screenshots on the 
 preview section of gamespot and thought to myself Nah, the graphics can't be that good. Well, they 
 are. This game is by far the best of the Total War series to date, and I definately the best Medieval 
 RTS game I have ever played. Unlike other TW games where you're soldiers slash at the air and something 
 near them dies, the soldiers in Medieval 2 actually target an enemy soldier and you the the combat, 
 you see your soldier kill, or be kill. Stab, or be stabbed. Chop or be chopped. Also, the longbowmen 
 in the game are absolutely fantastic, along with the punishing volleys of arrows they can unleash. 
 You will actually see individual arrows plunging into the soldiers, blood clouds as the arrows 
 hit and cries of pain as the soldiers fall. Gory - yes, but it makes for the absolute best Medieval 
 RTS game to date, and I simply don't know how they can better it. Add to it, yes, but better it? 
 How? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blitz567
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 5, 2007 4:15 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: Deep as the abyss. You manage armies, cities, castles, trade, diplomacy and fight huge 
 battles with powerful strategies. All in one package. Graphics: Sweet, Shiny and Well animated. 
 There's a few animation flaws notably in the artillery/musketeers, but the others are well done. 
 Blood has good effect too. The graphics works best if your video card and ram are good.
  Sound: Subtle but effective, gets the job done. Clanging, Shouting, Thunder of Hooves, to quirky 
 accents, it's fun to hear. Especially when going to battle, like some enthusiastic national pride.
 
  Replay Value: Addictive, thats all I have to say. You'll be hooked.
  
  Even newcomers to this genre will be breathtaken. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xpurex
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 5, 2007 3:33 am PT
Review:  What i think about the game: This game is NOT similiar to the RTW, the map's changed, there are new 
 cities, and there is plenty of new surprises :D
  
  The Surprises : The new 2-3 level'ed Fortresses and Citadels are extremly well thought of... and 
 its much more fun to withdraw with your army into another Circle of defense than go straight to 
 the HQ of the City like in RTW. The new fighting system is probaly the coolest new feature :)
 
  
  The Pope and The Crusades are alot of fun, but myself i HATE The Pope, If im Scotland and i Charge 
 England i get Excommunicated, if i dont do anything they charge me and they'r still not Excommunicated... But 
 its nothing special anyway, even if you're Excommunicated it wont go to wrong....
  
  (Just place more units in the Cities if it's a Crusade called against you.)
  
  The Bad: The 
 bad thing is, that i agree with gamespot when it comes to the Beefy requirements... but it's not 
 THAT bad, if you got 1000Ram+ it's gonna run Perfect... Even with a 512 Ram its gonna run Perfect... so 
 dont worry. The next bad thing might be the Inquestors extreme power to take lives of your family 
 members... its terrible to lose your Faction's greatest general when a Inquestor with maximum piety 
 accuses him for Heresy : (
  
  And more bad with this game it isnt, exept a FEW minor flaws, it is a STUNNING game and to the finish:
 
  
  This game should NOT be compared with RTW, they're both AMAZING games with each it's own Specialities... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vassago_
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 4, 2007 11:54 pm PT
Review:  Creative Assembly revolutionized modern RTS games when it released Shogun: Total War, back on June 
 13th, 2000. In seven years, many things have changed. But that same innovation and improvement 
 has been brought into Medieval II: Total War. Taking place in the dark days of the middle ages, 
 Medieval II spans a time period that saw much bloodshed and violence in the world. Scottish freeman 
 fighting for independence, Mongol hordes, crusades and jihads. A violent clash of religion, strength 
 and gunpowder.
  
  In M2TW, more focus has been on two of the most lacking aspects of the past - religion and economy. 
 To fund the inevitable wars of the future, you must build a strong economy. Merchants, trade routes, 
 and buildings all play a key role in funding your kingdom. Without money, you will not have war. 
 And without war, your kingdom will parish. The religion offers a unique and sometimes frustrating 
 aspect to the game. Adjacent territories can affect the religious stature of your own kingdom states, 
 and can influence them to rise against you. To prevent this, you must build your own massive cathedrals, 
 and deploy priests to your states. Inquisitors can often cause more headaches, as they accuse even 
 your most steadfast generals of being blasphemous scoundrels, and execute them.
  
  Graphically, M2TW is leaps and bounds above it's predecessor. Now sporting light bloom, normal 
 mapping, detailed shadows and variety in unit visuals, the game looks stunning. Every battle is 
 teeming with excitement and visual appeal. Even watching your own army get decimated is a beautiful 
 sight to behold! This comes at a price, however. You'll need a decent rig to run the game at maxed 
 settings and a reasonable frame rate. But the payoff is worth it.
  
  The AI in the game, while better than Rome's, still needs some work. The initial 1.1 patch fixed 
 some of the problems with the vanilla AI, but more can be done. The forthcoming 1.2 patch should 
 fix quite a bit more. Overall, Medieval II will not dissapoint. While it's flaws are apparent, 
 the great gameplay out weighs them. Well worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Theintwowords
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 4, 2007 11:28 am PT
Review:  Now its not like this is a surprise or anything. Creative Assembly has shown us that it can produce 
 quality real time strategy games with the past games in the phenominal Total War series. But something 
 like Medieval 2: Total War deserves a place of recognition high above its noble anscestors. Gameplay 
 has reached a new high with guilds, religious standings, diplomacy, holy wars etc. but that's not 
 where the fun ends. The graphics are greatly enhanced over that of its predescesor, Rome: Total 
 War. No two human's are alike, something that I found very few games managed to achieve outside 
 of the main characters. But we're talking about ~ 3 000 models on the battle field at once, staring 
 into the face of someone who finally doesn't look like your good friend Bob. Aside from that, the 
 terrains look amazing and the interactivity that comes with this game is unimaginabley strong. 
 I recommend this game to anyone who enjoys a nice round of battle and a spirit-lifting speech. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ark_Fatalis
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 3, 2007 4:41 pm PT
Review:  Medieval 2 is by far the best game in the Total War series. Although very similar to the Rome and 
 the first Medieval, Medieval 2 pushes the visual limits, has a complex political system, and great 
 new castle/city system. Medieval 2 sports some great new visuals for fans of the Total War series. 
 The randomized outfits for every single unit in the game make every unit and individual. Not only 
 that, but instead of moving in perfect brick formations, like in the previous games, Medieval 2's 
 soldiers move back and forth within their formation very similar to a school of fish or a flock 
 of birds. Along with the upgrade in the ability of the graphics simply moving the camera down to 
 head height makes you feel like your right in the middle of a real 14th blood bath.
  
  The new political system is perfect for those who are in love with board game strategy. Like the 
 previous games, Medieval 2 keeps to the same table top map for your big picture planning. Not only 
 do you now have a better system for negotiating with your allies and enemies, but now the Catholic 
 Church/Pope hold a lot of power over most of your actions on the big map. Both of these together 
 allow you to better read your enemies, while having to deal with pain in the neck religious leaders, 
 which wraps together into a fun little package. Finally, the new castle or city option allows the 
 player to choose whether each strategic location under your control is either a castle or city. 
 This option for fortified defenses and stronger troops or a cash cove that is easy raided plays 
 heavily into each players strategy. Not only that, but invading other players territory is now 
 more difficult depending on which type of location you're attacking. What makes this feature even 
 better the realistic number of men it takes just to pry away a single castle from just a few hundred 
 men. All these things together make Medieval 2 a great experience that war strategists, history 
 fans, real time, and turn-based strategy gamers can all enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Boobno1
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 3, 2007 12:22 pm PT
Review:  This was inspired by playing rome total war again for a laugh. Try this too and you will receive 
 the same reaction as me. Some may dissagree with the learning curve but to understand and control 
 every aspect of the game i rekon it takes this long.
  
  Firstly, the choice of factions. Whether you can be bothered to finish it or just simply edit the 
 text in the correct notepad to play as scotland, you will see there is such a variety of different 
 factions to choose from. Although they are generally based around either infantry, cavalry, artillery, 
 ranged or sea strengths, they can all hold their own no matter who they're fighting. The mix of 
 units is very cleverly done, and no army with just infantry will win a battle. Even though when 
 playing the tutorial you may be shouting at the screen saying let me charge you will realise you 
 yourself are skirmishing with your archers and javelineers to weaken your enemies before your infantry 
 push in. Cavalry is also well balanced. This is based upon the time in and around the 100 year 
 war when cavalry no longer ruled the battlefield however the game has done a good job of giving 
 them a powerful presence on the battlefield but not keeping them too strong.
  
  Tactically, there is a lot to do. In Rome Total War you just lined your men up in formations and 
 had your arches pummel them to the point of breaking and then rush your centurions in. Although 
 this is a tactic that can be chosen, factions like the Danes and the Scots are unlikely to stand 
 and watch you shoot (although the AI does act strangely somtimes, so play online for a real feel 
 of battles) . Artillery not only play an important part in sieges but also can be very usefull on 
 the average battlefield and some players will choose them in their armies. Formations , although 
 there, are rarely used by most players as micro managing one units formations is not such a clever 
 idea
  
  Graphically this is an amazing game, it looks great both scenary and unit detail. The way units 
 die is where the game excels. As said in a review elsewhere, the soldiers swords actually dig into 
 another mans bodies, a cavalry charge will knock your enemies into the ground. This was a good 
 improovement on Rome where the soldiers just swung swords around at a distance. The world map is 
 also very well done, just enough detail so you can focus on the map and its strategic points but 
 not too well done that you spend too long admiring it and get right back to building your empire
 
  
  The best improovement from the other total war games however is the split between Casltes and Towns. 
 This is most visible if you go back and play Rome Total War. It adds a whole new startegic level 
 to the game. Not only now are u making sure your taxs come in but also that your castles are close 
 enough to defend all your cities, but also that you have enough towns to create enough taxes. Whenever 
 a new settlements captured the first thing that comes into your mind is castle or town. This decision 
 time is important and can change the reults of the whole campaign as i have figured out through 
 much experimentation.
  
  Only two small faults that i could find (despite a few bugs) . Religion, although being very visible 
 and big and a constant in the game, it can be blatantly ignored unless you are a faction that is 
 likely yo be threatened by Crusades or Jihads (Byzantines and Turks) . The other problem is the 
 AI. On easy the AI is almost too easy and the new arrival to the genre might be a bit lost. Medium 
 is more like the easy i was expecting, not much up his sleeve but lasts a few years. Then once 
 you get higher its a challenge. Supriises round the corners and all sorts of problems caused all 
 over the place, however at this level the diplomacy gets a bit wierd... i had the English and the 
 French against me as Danemark, no matter how you look at history these guys havent been the best 
 of freinds.
  
  The game offers a lot both strategically and depth to an already strong genre. I have thouroughly 
 enjoyed playing this new addition to the Total War serious and is a clear example of what sequels 
 should be like. A high score for a game that i just can't tear myself away from, and this has only 
 happened before with Warcraft 3... battlenet is still amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackNumonerian
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 31, 2007 8:23 am PT
Review:  Medieval Total War was more than what I had expected. It had the same solid gameplay and features 
 as RTW but the real joy of it, is that the designers really expanded the game entirely. They added-in 
 a whole new process of diplomacy which in RTW, didn't play much of a difference in taking over 
 Europe. Now, however, much will depend on the skill of your diplomats and of course your own. Along 
 with the new diplomacy, MTW II has relatively the same fighting process as RTW except that there 
 are so many new unit types in the game, and the way they look and fight has totally been altered. 
 Before, in RTW, every soldier looked the same. However, in MTW II, each soldier looks like they 
 have a background, with each having his own different style of armour and appearance. As well with 
 this new look, the AI has been greatly altered in a positive way. The way each soldier on the battlefield 
 fights as a real soldier would have in the time. Fighting man-to-man until one dies and the other 
 is left to fight on. The campaign itself hasn't entirely been changed, other than the fact that 
 at a certain time in the game you will have the oppertunity to travel to America and fight the 
 Aztecs for territory, riches etc. The campaign stays the same. Although great improvements like 
 religion, the Jihads, Crusades and the Pope affect greatly how you will do in the game, the rest 
 is basically the same... conquer Europe. So, there isn't much bad to say about this game except 
 that if you really want to have the best gaming performance you are going to have to have a pretty 
 beefy computer to take the game. That, I would say, is the only drawback. All in all, MTW II is 
 leaps and bounds ahead of RTW, and makes for a great PC game!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Roman5
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 30, 2007 7:07 pm PT
Review:  I have been playing this game for a while, and my only opinion is that this is one of the best 
 games I have ever played, it just has so much to offer that you will spend hours trying to see 
 it all, and it will suck you in for longer after that, it gives you the chance to be the king that 
 we all deep down inside want to be, will you be a tyrant, an innovator, a warrior, a coward, or 
 a diplomat. How you choose to rule is up to you, or if your catholic, how you rule is up to the 
 Pope, unless you got really deep pockets. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: starwarz24
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 29, 2007 3:32 pm PT
Review:  Medieval 2: Total War is no doubt a great game. But, it's lacking that wow this is so cool feeling 
 I got with Rome. It seems like the same game with better graphics and animation. Although I still 
 liked the assassin and campaign movies. The campaign map is virtually the same, with only the Americas 
 added. I believe that there should be more factions for the campaign. The pope just gets annoying, 
 and the troops diversity was very limited. The multiplayer was not anything different than Rome, 
 unfourtunatly. And, when are they ever going to let you actually play a naval battle? It was not 
 as revolutionary as Rome, but still a good, fun game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninjahboy
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 29, 2007 1:03 am PT
Review:  Medieval 2: Total War is the latest game in the long running Total War series which include the 
 original medieval and fan favourite Rome: Total War. All of these are excellent games, however, 
 Medieval 2 takes the cake.
  
  The graphics in medieval are amazing, with all settings turned up, the game can really crank out 
 the eye candeh. The effects include bloom, 4x AA and AF. However, to get the candy goodness, your'e 
 going to need a fairly beefy machine. That said, medieval doesnt look too bad with a dew settings 
 dialled down.
  
  As with the rest of the series, medieval 2 is based around turn based strategy. The map which this 
 is played on is absolutely stunning, withfull 3D effects and animations. You can even zoom all 
 the way down to observe the rivers and forests of the 100+ provinces in the game. The game's diplomacy 
 is very good but is a little easy. The same can be said for everything. The game is too easy on 
 the default setting. CPU armies would be comprised of peasants and low level units while you traipse 
 around Europe with a bunch of varagian guard. However, where Medieval 2: Total War really shines 
 is in the combat and the strategy involved with it. On higher settings, the AI is fairly decent 
 and will incorporate elite units and other specialists to counter yours. The combat is fairly complicated 
 but can be picked up with practice. Formations can be used to either defend or attack and you can 
 combine these to create absolute synchrony with the rest of your army. Your tactics and strategies 
 on the battlefield are only limited by your imagination.
  
  Ultimately, Medieval 2 is a great game, and if played properly has hours and hours of gameplay. 
 Courtesy of the games 20+ factions, replayability is excellent, however some of the units are the 
 same, but it is nice to play under a different banner. The 2 campaigns will keep you hooked for 
 a while. Medieval 2 is a must have game for all you strategy fans out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Joonbeams
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 28, 2007 9:53 am PT
Review:  If you're a turn-based strategy fan, you will love this game. But for those of you who crave real-time 
 action, you can get that too in the battles. If you've played Rome: Total War, you will notice 
 many similarities, but this game is slightly more advanced in graphics and features. For me, two 
 things that make games like these truly great are when there are several gameplay options and options 
 for winning - both of which are present here. If you want to focus on strategy and automate battles, 
 you can. If you want to wage huge battles in real time, you can as well. You can do both or neither 
 as well (i. e. you can automate several management features) . If you want several hours of addictive 
 gameplay, get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GibboViper
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 28, 2007 8:59 am PT
Review:  Well, what can be said about medieval total war that hasnt already been said? its truly another 
 classic in the total war series. Its just a pleasure to play such a fun packed strategy game and 
 is just weeks if not months of fun. Lets keep it simple. You have to expand your medieval kingdom 
 and fight of foes accross europe and if you play long enough may even end up taking on the Aztecs. 
 There are loads of units to call on, Spearmen, men at arms, mounted knights and bowmen etc and 
 each are graphically visually stunning to look at during game play. Remember - keep your bowmen 
 in the rear at all times as cavalry will just mow them down if exposed. The 15th century heavy 
 weapons such as cannons and catapults and siege weapons are so much fun to play around with and 
 the limits of use in gameplay are endless. Build your roads early as roads increase trade, increase 
 gold and allows your armies to from A to B faster and can be critical if your getting one of your 
 castles out of trouble. I always found fighting in real time more fun and if you get good at your 
 strategy can sometimes defeat a stronger foe . I found that if i left it to the AI and play your 
 turn will find that all your men were slaughtered in the battle leaving you with hardly any troops. 
 A curious thing so make sure you know what combinations of troops are attacking who and KNOW THERE 
 STRENGTH!. Well, one final point. Medieval 2 is a visually stunning game but it struggled on my 
 pc. So make sure your system requirements are up to date. To really enjoy those graphics you need 
 your pc to be solid and reliable. That said, you will find this a must have game and wont be able 
 to come away from the keyboard for weeks. Another true classic in the total war series! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: telroan
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 27, 2007 8:24 am PT
Review:  This game is really good and a great extension to the brand. It fixed what I always disliked about 
 Rome Total War which was that there were very few factions that had effective mixtures of unit 
 types. The concentration of provinces in the France/Germany regions provides a very different game 
 dynamic as compared to Total War's concentration in Greece and Northern Italy. The new castle feature 
 is really interesting although the only real difference between castled towns and regular towns 
 is that they can build more armored units and siege engines earlier, and their units can only be 
 retrained in castles. The militia feature where militia class units (basically anything built in 
 a town as opposed to a castle) really helps with reducing the costs of having standing armies garrisoned 
 in your cities, and means you really only have to pay for a small portion of your town units and 
 your castle and fortress units. The graphics are similar to Rome Total War with minor boosts in 
 unit detail, and a slightly greater boost in building detail. The addition of princess and merchant 
 units add a depth to agent functions that really flesh out the campaigns. All in all this is a 
 great game and if you liked Rome Total War you will probably like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stefan90
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 25, 2007 5:48 pm PT
Review:  Well game have some good START because if u wanna all NATIONS u must 2 win first and take all EUROPE 
 with several nations like&gt; ENGLAND, GERMANY, ITALY, FRANCE, VENICE, and u have 2 more but all 
 catholic nations and then u can get some Islam or Orthodox country's! Every country have some special 
 army and that is good! Example: Egypt have good spear man, England get good peasants and more other!!! 
 Good staff are JIHAD and Crusader Wars but stupid thing is that u must 2 ask POPE soo u can conquer 
 land u want! They have some mistakes in game like&gt; BYSANTIA on their shields are symbols of 
 SERBIA and Serbia was other country's they believed in same God and they was Allys, second thing 
 is land by name of CROATIA and ZAGREB province town in thet time that town was village they didn't 
 put Belgrade town on Danube, nobody can take ROME that isn't true or Catholic country against Catholic 
 country that is mistake in this game!!! Game is good and worth playing but i want SECOND Rome: Total 
 War!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yoshidino
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 22, 2007 8:08 pm PT
Review:  Medieval Total War II is a game you should consider, even if you aren't the gamer type.
  
  Gameplay: The campaign and overall gameplay of this game is great. The campaign places you (mainly) 
 in Europe. You can play as many different factions, such as England, France, The Byzantine Empire, 
 or the Moors. Your faction has a specific religion. Most factions are Catholic (including England, 
 they were still part of the church at this point) . There are also three factions that are Muslim, 
 and two factions that are Eastern Orthodox Christainity. You can make priests to convert the populations 
 of your or foreign provinces to further you influence. If your part of a Catholic faction, the 
 Pope may call for a crusade. If one of your priests becomes the Pope, you can call crusades againest 
 Muslims, or Catholic factions that have been excommunicated from the Church. The battles in this 
 game are deep, and in later parts of the campaign most factions get some form of musket using unit 
 (The Byzantine Empire gets weak little canons, and no guns) . The old general/family system from 
 Rome returns in Medieval.
  
  Graphics: The graphics in this game are pristine. Every soldier is now an individual man, instead 
 of a carbon copy of one another. The water, grass, and buildings all look great in this game.
 
  
  Sound: Not much to say about sound. Good sound effects and music as usual. :)
  
  Value/tilt: Just buy the game, its great and it'll have you thinking and killing the enemy in no 
 time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ceaser543
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 22, 2007 2:02 pm PT
Review:  well let me get started this game is epic let me ask you a question how long have you been playing. Now 
 how long ha it been since youve unloked the new world. Well ive been playing for 3 months with setback 
 after setback
  i havnt unlojked the new world bear in mind u are lucky and may i upoligize ive just been using 
 slang alot so soz WOOPS! Well has any one out there you know ever defended a 3 layerd castle againt 
 the mongols Yes well has any one ever sucesfully atacked a mountaintop 3 layerd castle againt the 
 turks in the holy land despert to get ure faction leader out of the reach of the mongols??
  This is my story of an epic battle. One day i was crusading in the holy land away from my fleet 
 with my faction leader and heir i decied to make a stand againt the mongolins in a hilltop castle 
 ao i sent my spy in to check ok they had a few infantry but that was fine. Now the folowing events 
 i am about to describe are masive. I layed siege to the castle for 2 turns when the Mongols show 
 up so with my culvirins and mortars a decieded to lay siege
  little did i know i was dealing with a castle probley the same as in the pciture it has a bottle 
 neck the enemy troops had reninforcement and this is were it al started to go wrong they cornerd 
 me in the bottle neck being showerd in arows my mortars were soon nocked out so i let my culvverins 
 loose hit my leader the army routess and gets MASACRED that was my story or.... No i will not stop 
 even though im boring pleze do not report just relized woops! my sherwood archer sstaked the botom 
 of the hill and were backed up by templar knights and dismounted knights they charged time and 
 time again with there spear men no ciagr but they peperd me of i could not charge if they routed 
 they would be stuck on the outside (they refers to cavalry) so i waited for my infantry to win 
 they DID NOT WIN they routed and eventualy routed my mortar crews they fled to higer ground and 
 were hailed on by trebuchet fire i pulle din my cannons and killed my genatal in an acident and 
 my army were crushed. That was my story soz for gramar and the sort 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cbofthecs
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 20, 2007 3:34 pm PT
Review:  I LOVE THIS GAME BEYOND REASON! It is the best graphics I have ever seen for a game like this. 
 The game play is like all the rest of the total wars though. It has some things that are better 
 in it though. I love the diplomacy and the assassin and spy videos. Its in a great time were they 
 start coming out with guns and all that good stuff. Now I have played hours and hours of this game 
 and still haven't seen everything. I would play it more but it won't run on Joy (my laptop) so 
 I can only play it on my brothers computer. The sound is superb and you will find your self playing 
 this game over and over again. You will be trying ever possible way to run your empire and you 
 will do it with every empire you can. it does take a bit to know how to play though. But you should 
 get it fairly quick if you have played the other total war games. But the Cities and Castles took 
 some getting used to. It truly is a superb game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkdesires
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 20, 2007 1:01 pm PT
Review:  Graphics:
  
  Medieval II has awsome graphics, from animations to textures everything is great. You will need 
 a very good hardware to see huge battles with a decent frame rate and max details, a medium system 
 can get down to its knees easily specialy when there are thousands of units in the screen.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Like other total war games, nothing was left apart, some features have been 
 improved and there are some new but if you are familiar with other total war games such as Rome 
 you will feel at home.
  Medieval II has a nice dificulty, not to easy, not to hard, just right.
  The diplomacy can be 
 sometimes, questionable, but no major problems and unfortunetly the is still no naval battles at 
 all : (.
  
  Sound:
  
  Nice medieval soundtracks, about the soundeffects they are all there.
  
  Life Time:
  
  
 I personaly don't like the campaign limited to 350 turns, so the campaign life time its limited 
 to 350 turns... You have many battles to acomplishe outside the campaign and the multiplayer can 
 bring more fun into the game, but unfortunatly the multiplayer are just battles.
  
  Final Comments:
  
  Medieval 2 - Total war its the best of the total war series, but some aspects 
 could have been worked better or better explored like the campaign and the multiplayer. The game 
 price its set to 50 but for 60 you can get collectors edition (Limited edition) that includes 
 the following:
  
  Medieval 2 - Total war (collectors edition)
  Medieval 2 - Total war soundtrack
  Medieval 2 - Total war Making off DVD
  Medieval 2 - Total 
 war action figure
  5 Medieval 2 - Total war post cards
  Medieval 2 - Total war building planner
  
  Its worth your extra 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: remusgd13
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 18, 2007 1:44 pm PT
Review:  I am a huge fan of the entire series. I was extremely disappointed when it appeared in november 
 because it had a lot of bugs. After the update things changed. On 23 of March there will be update 
 1.2 so I hope the game will get even better. Nice battles, very nice sieges ( they miss the boiling 
 oil) , nice units, nice strategic map ( but the Balkans are catholic regions, so they need to read 
 more history) , nice movies, bad ( very bad) diplomacy. So , I think that the game will be quite 
 a hit when it reaches update 1.4 . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danevader
Rating: 10
Date: May 20, 2007 6:08 pm PT
Review:  The first time I played a custom battle I played as Denmark agaisnt the Papal states and it was 
 the best thing in my entire gaming life. And I know this sounds wimpy but I'm still learning the 
 whole figure of the game. I also remember that I completed the grand campaign with in 6 days. Now 
 when I play the campaign as venice i have 76 provinces and I am already discovering the new world 
 and taking the cities around the area. I also have one fort that has been attacked multiple times 
 by forces larger than mine and it has always fought back and won. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bahaa_the_great
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 17, 2007 1:36 pm PT
Review:  hi every one have you tried it yet if you haven't it is not a problem you still have time to try 
 it you might ask me why i am saying this well this game have every thing that can make it a great 
 game it gives you the enjoyment of civilization but without making you get bored of it by offering 
 you the option of real time battle and it also makes feel that you are running a real and great 
 kingdom but take care don't annoy the pope unless your target is to take rome any way here is a 
 great secret about this game if you want to have endless money all you have to do is the following 
 1. go to the partition where you have installed the game and then follow this root
  (sega\medievel II total 
  2. there you will find 
 a file called descr_strat open it 3. find the faction you want to play with and increas the amount 
 of the money it is starting with to 999999999 for example and engoy the game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: olxter
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 16, 2007 9:22 am PT
Review:  I haven't seen the Total War series before, but when I saw this, it became my most favorite game. 
 At school history was my favorite, and medieval age was the best part.
  
  At first look, it remind a Sid Mayer's Civilization. You have cities, armies and your purpose is 
 to defend and conquer dominations. But the best part is real-time battles. If you seize towns or 
 castles and just fighting with other armies, you can choose the way to fight. You have armies, 
 where might be over thousand units. You have king and royal family, who are the army leaders. You 
 can upgrade your towns, what allows you to create better units and better defences for your cities. 
 Of course there are all, that medieval age can offer - crusades, blague, Mongols, moody popes and 
 much more. My opinion is that is the best war game ever. But it's just my opinion :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CaptainRaa
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 21, 2007 9:17 pm PT
Review:  The Goodies:
  Needs a good powerful PC but It really sets the standard for epic medieval battles.
  The turn 
 based layer is very similar to Civ IV but it is the real time layer gives you the goods.
  I have played a lot of PC strategy games and this is by far the best. It really brings out the 
 general in you as you try to control all of your troops especially when you hit an aggressive opponent.
 
  The AI tactics are not as predictable as you would expect and it sometimes catches you out when 
 you think you have the battle in the bag.
  Beautiful cities.
  Great atmosphere.
  
  The Sheista:
  Naval tactics can get annoying.
  You can not save game mid battle so prepare 
 to be engaged in real time battle for the duration.
  missile units are not as effective as I would like. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xts3
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 14, 2007 3:39 pm PT
Review:  What is there to say? Well if you haven't played the first game (and I haven't) then coming to 
 this game can seem like a breath of fresh air. Medieval 2 is a slower paced hybrid strategy game, 
 on the main map your troop movements are taken in turns, but the battles can be fought in real 
 time controlling and moving units. Note that, There is not a lot of strategy in this game, most 
 of what you end up doing is making decisions on where to keep your armies while holding your enemies 
 at bay. The game while in itself is fun to play, is an acquired taste. It's very hands off in many 
 aspects of town management and things are very easy in this regard. Any management you do is in 
 choosing whether a settlement remains a town or a castle, and building the buildings you need to 
 get the units you want to produce at the correct locations.
  
  The game takes place on the main map and everything in the main campaign is fixed. All cities and 
 settlements, and resource locations are predetermined, there is no Expanding beyond conquering 
 your enemy, in fact, war is the only way to expand. But as you would have guessed from the title: 
 Total war. The fun thing about this game is the units and their formations, it can be very exciting 
 taking down an AI with less troops due to superior troop movement and management. Taking down an 
 army twice your size, and coming out barely alive or cleaning the floor with them is an amazing 
 experience to behold!
  
  Note that this game can be very frustrating since you need to download the patch right away to 
 prevent a slew of bugs and crashes.
  
  The bad things about this game are:
  
  -The game feels like it was rushed out the door (note the game is full of bugs, even after the 
 1.01 patch) . -The game is exceedingly slow during the main campaign when everyone is taking their 
 turns, also speeding up animations of the unit movements is not obvious there is little feedback 
 beyond watching units move.
  
  -Many aspects (like diplomacy, princesses, etc) feel very unfinished. Diplomacy most of the time 
 is simply an excuse to gain access to resources in enemy lands, which most of the time are worthless.
 
  
  The good thing about this game:
  
  -Making strategic choices about City management and troop locations on map map
  -Fighting and 
 managing you troops when the odds are against you and coming out alive!
  -Graphics and sounds are first rate 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wotsfreek
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 14, 2007 1:01 pm PT
Review:  Another great addition to the Total War series, Medieval 2 Total War is a great strategy game. 
 For those of you familiar with the series you already know that there are two parts oft the game; 
 the campaign game, and the battles. You will spend most of your time on the campaign map building 
 up your forces, and managing your settlements. Speaking of settlements there are two kinds now: 
 Cities and Castles, Cities generate more income, while Castles allow you to create more units. 
 If you engage another faction in battle you have three choices: fight the battle on the battle 
 map, simulate the battle, or retreat. If you simulate the battle the AI will play out the battle 
 for you (which sucks half the fun out of the game) , if you play a battle on the battle map you 
 will fight the enemy army on a a map which resembles wherever the armies were on the campaign map 
 (if they were in the forest the map will have trees) , retreating will cause your army to get as 
 far away from the enemy as possible. The game is great and the Total War formula keeps improving 
 and improving. On a side note, the game has many issues, but the 1.1 patch has fixed some of them 
 and the 1.2 patch is expected to fix even more. ALSO, if you have a dual core processor you WILL 
 experience issues such as the game skipping during Battles and on some parts of the campaign map. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: steven141
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 14, 2007 12:00 pm PT
Review:  First of all i have to say how much i love playing this game, it is truly spectactular.
  
  Like previous total war games it takes part in the past although htis is in medievel times (obviously) , 
 this game is more centered around religion than before, featuring the pope, cardinals and so on. 
 You can get your own priests promoted to cardinals and if you have at least one cardinal and a 
 pope dies then you can vote for your own cardinal to be made a pope, but be careful because if 
 your cardinal loses the vote, the winning pope wont forget that you didnt vote for him.
  The pope can call crusades for christianity against religious settlements such as jerusalem and 
 so on, to join one of these crusades you must have one of your family members make an army and 
 then he can join the crusade but if you dont head straight to the targeted city then you may face 
 soldiers deserting the army.
  War! you will undoubtedly be at war with other countries christian or not and you should be careful 
 about how you do this because it could mean excommunication which would then result in any christian 
 faction going to war with you which could be hard to go up against.
  And of course we come to the huge battles which make up a big part of the games, you can have thousands 
 of soldiers on the battlefield killing each other as with previous titles in the total war series 
 but with this one, soldiers gradually get more bloody and the sarmour gets scraped as the battle 
 continues which you can visually see as you zoom in on your soldiers to watch them hacking away 
 at their enemies.
  
  Well thats all im going to say about this partly because i dont want to give a lot away and partly 
 because im getting hungry. So good luck in game and i hope you reach victory. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kachal
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 14, 2007 8:20 am PT
Review:  Similar to previous titles of the Total War series, the game consists of two modes of play: battles 
 and single-player campaign. Battles can be played in multiplayer, in user-defined scenarios, or 
 in historical scenarios which simulate real battles such as the Battle of Arsuf or the Battle of 
 Agincourt. Battles are also featured in the campaign.
  
  The campaign allows the player to assume control of a faction of the time period, and build a civilization, 
 economy and military in order to conquer other factions. Gameplay consists of controlling the faction's 
 military, economic, and social systems via a large campaign map. During the player's turn, armies, 
 fleets, and agents can be moved on the map. When an army engages another army, the player can choose 
 to fight the battle personally, in the battle mode, or automatically calculate the outcome.
  
  The goal of the campaign depends on which type of campaign is played. The short campaign requires 
 the player to defeat one or two enemy factions (for example, England must defeat its historical 
 enemies Scotland and France) and control at least 15-20 settlements. The long campaign requires 
 the player to control at least 45 territories and one or two significant cities, such as Jerusalem, 
 Rome or Constantinople.
  
  [edit] Settlements
  Each faction controls a number of settlements, and must conquer others in order to continue growing. 
 Unlike previous Total War titles, there are two kinds of settlements, each with different advantages 
 and disadvantages: cities and castles. Castles have better defensive capabilities and have access 
 to a larger selection of soldiers, but generate less income and have no access to higher technologies. 
 Cities generate much larger income and are technological centers of a faction, but are more difficult 
 to defend and only have access to militia troops, which are generally inferior to those trained 
 at castles. Players may convert a settlement to a different type, although larger cities may not 
 be converted into castles.
  
  As in other Total War games, in each settlement the faction may construct a number of buildings, 
 each with different functions, such as training troops, upgrading weapons and armour, expanding 
 the economy, increasing the settlement's defenses or strengthening religion. A new feature of Medieval 
 II is the ability to build guild halls. A given settlement may only have a single guild hall, although 
 there are several different types. The guild hall provides certain bonuses such as increased movement 
 for troops, better weapons, or better agents; some even grant access to new units, such as the 
 non-historical and effective unit of Sherwood Archers available to England upon construction and 
 subsequent upgrade of a Woodsmens' Guild. Guild halls may also be later upgraded to a Master Guild 
 Hall , which may provide a larger bonus or even grant a bonus to all of the faction's settlements 
 while still retaining a more notable bonus in the city the structure is built.
  
  [edit] Religion
  Religion plays a large role in the game. The major religions in the game are 
 Roman Catholicism, Orthodox Christianity, and Islam. Heresy and paganism play minor roles. Other 
 religions, notably Judaism, are not featured due to the fact that they were not the established 
 or official religions of any of the factions featured in the game. The player must monitor and 
 safeguard the spiritual state of their faction's domain, maintaining it through building places 
 of worship for their faction's religion and by training Priest or Imam units to spread their faith. 
 The presence of faiths other than the faction leader's in a city tends to generate unrest, and 
 so religious buildings and units combat this by converting people to their own religion and eliminating 
 the heretics and witches that appear on the map. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dman4p
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 11, 2007 5:28 am PT
Review:  I believe this to be the best Total war game to date. It's even better than it's predecessor Rome 
 Total War. Whilst it is very similar to Rome Total war there are many new aspects, such as religion 
 and Castle/Town Balance. The choice of Nation is enormous ranging from Scotland to the Egyptians. 
 Make your priest become the Pope, assassinate your rival leaders, spy on your enemies, marry your 
 allies and trade with all nations in Europe and the middle east, this game has it all. This Game 
 looks good and has provided me with many hours of fun. A definite must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sexyfunkmaster
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 10, 2007 9:39 pm PT
Review:  this is the most addickting game i have ever played. and not to mention that you have 17 different 
 campains to chose from. its butiful and it dosent requier much hardwar to rilly play it at minnimum. 
 unles your a cheep F$%!. this game also can have some pritty intese moments on the field of battle 
 man. if you love total war, hate total war, or have never herrrrrrd of totalwar, then youl love 
 or like this game it is on my new top 5 list and is best game in a long time. and if company of 
 heros came out in a different year this game would of one best rts.
  -!13M (Ibm or internatinal black man) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yari-ken
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 8, 2007 12:00 pm PT
Review:  If you liked the other total war games you will love this, the graphics arent too much better than 
 the last one (Rome: total War) but it does have a much more reallistic feel to it .sadly, the map 
 is nearly identical to Rome's. The music in this game is absolutely amazing and truely gives the 
 game that medievil feel to it. The gameplay is quite hard (even for you total war veterans out 
 there!) but you you get used to the game after your first or second failed attempt. for all you 
 people who never heard of the total war series (where were you hiding?) then i imagine it would 
 be pretty tough to start off, but if you like serious straegy games then you will too fall in love 
 with this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: muffinballow
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 7, 2007 1:23 pm PT
Review:  It is definetly the best of the series. It has great graphics, great sound effects, and and great 
 campaighns. More info and Cheats below.
  toggle_fow Toggles on or off the fog of war. You can see the whole world map when inputted. auto_win 
 attacker/defender When at the battle scroll, input this code in, attacker if attacking, defender 
 if defending and press auto retaliate button. Automatically wins. add_money amount Gives you the 
 specific amount of gold. process_cq settlement name Anything in the city's building queue will 
 be built automatically. give_trait this trait level number Allows you to give any trait your faction 
 can have to a specific general. add_population settlement name amount Allows you to give a city 
 more population automatically. move_character z x, y z=name of settlement or unit without title 
 (except Captain) . x, y=coords show_cursorstat Shows coordinates under mousecursor in format x, y 
 character_reset Allows a character to move again. Does not always work Create a Unit Use the console 
 to enter the following
  create_unit settlement or character unit ID amount (1-5) experience (1-9) armor (1-3) weapon (1-3) 
 
  
  Example -
  
  creat_unit London Longbowmen 2 9 3 3
  
  ^The above code will create 2 units of Longbowmen in London with 3 Gold Chevrons, Level 3 armor 
 and Level 3 weapon Cheat Effect create_unit settlement or character unit ID amount (1-5) experience 
 (1-9) armor (1-3) weapon (1-3) Creates Unit at any settlement/general you like Adding Units to 
 Stacks Just pick a city or any unit as if moving it and just open console and simple type george 
 or any of those on this list and hit enter to get the following units Cheat Effect george Mercenary 
 Monster Ribault houston Mercenary Rocket Launcher istanbul Mercenary Monster Bombard madras Elephants 
 rogan Elephant Artillery vindaloo Elephant Rocketeer Info below.
  
  Wikipedia below. Thanks. You can be the Papal states, mongols, and aztecs or timurads if you edit 
 the game files.
  
  Medieval II: Total War is the indirect sequel to 2002's Medieval: Total War, and the fourth game 
 in the critically acclaimed Total War series from The Creative Assembly. The game is set between 
 the years 1080 and 1530. Like the original Medieval, it focuses on medieval warfare, religion, 
 and politics in Europe, North Africa, and the Middle East. However, unlike its predecessor, the 
 timeframe stretches into the era of the historical discovery of the New World, and simulates the 
 discovery and conquest of the Americas.
  
  Contents [hide]
  1 Release Dates 2 Gameplay 2.1 Settlements 2.2 Religion 2.3 Agents and Characters 2.4 Turn system 
 2.5 Battle System 3 Factions 4 Critical Response 4.1 Problems with the map 4.2 Other perspectives 
 5 Historical inaccuracies 6 External links [edit] Release Dates
  Medieval II: Total War was announced on January 20, 2006. The game was released on November 10, 
 2006 in Europe, November 14, 2006 in North America, November 15, 2006 in South Africa, and on November 
 16, 2006 in Australia and New Zealand. A demo of the game was released on October 10, 2006 featuring 
 a tutorial of the Battle of Hastings, the Battle of Pavia and the Battle of Agincourt. Another 
 gold demo was released on October 29, 2006 featuring an enhanced version of the original demo and 
 the newly added Battle of Otumba. A strategy guide was released on November 7, 2006. In Australia 
 buyers who pre-ordered the game received a 'Collector's Edition', featuring a Making-of DVD, a 
 Construction Tree, a Soundtrack and a map; a British retailer, GAME, has also begun selling the 
 collector's edition. Medieval II is also available on the Steam system.
  
  The first patch, which updated the game to Version 1.1, was released on December 15, 2006.
  
 
  [edit] Gameplay
  Similar to previous titles of the Total War series, the game consists of two modes of play: battles 
 and single-player campaign. Battles can be played in multiplayer, in user-defined scenarios, or 
 in historical scenarios which simulate real battles such as the Battle of Arsuf or the Battle of 
 Agincourt. Battles are also featured in the campaign.
  
  The campaign allows the player to assume control of a faction of the time period, and build a civilization, 
 economy and military in order to conquer other factions. Gameplay consists of controlling the faction's 
 military, economic, and social systems via a large campaign map. During the player's turn, armies, 
 fleets, and agents can be moved on the map. When an army engages another army, the player can choose 
 to fight the battle personally, in the battle mode, or automatically calculate the outcome.
  
  The goal of the campaign depends on which type of campaign is played. The short campaign requires 
 the player to defeat one or two enemy factions (for example, England must defeat its historical 
 enemies Scotland and France) and control at least 15-20 settlements. The long campaign requires 
 the player to control at least 45 territories and one or two significant cities, such as Jerusalem, 
 Rome or Constantinople.
  
  [edit] Settlements
  Each faction controls a number of settlements, and must conquer others in order to continue growing. 
 Unlike previous Total War titles, there are two kinds of settlements, each with different advantages 
 and disadvantages: cities and castles. Castles have better defensive capabilities and have access 
 to a larger selection of soldiers, but generate less income and have no access to higher technologies. 
 Cities generate much larger income and are technological centers of a faction, but are more difficult 
 to defend and only have access to militia troops, which are generally inferior to those trained 
 at castles. Players may convert a settlement to a different type, although larger cities may not 
 be converted into castles.
  
  As in other Total War games, in each settlement the faction may construct a number of buildings, 
 each with different functions, such as training troops, upgrading weapons and armour, expanding 
 the economy, increasing the settlement's defenses or strengthening religion. A new feature of Medieval 
 II is the ability to build guild halls. A given settlement may only have a single guild hall, although 
 there are several different types. The guild hall provides certain bonuses such as increased movement 
 for troops, better weapons, or better agents; some even grant access to new units, such as the 
 non-historical and effective unit of Sherwood Archers available to England upon construction and 
 subsequent upgrade of a Woodsmens' Guild. Guild halls may also be later upgraded to a Master Guild 
 Hall , which may provide a larger bonus or even grant a bonus to all of the faction's settlements 
 while still retaining a more notable bonus in the city the structure is built.
  
  [edit] Religion
  Religion plays a large role in the game. The major religions in the game are 
 Roman Catholicism, Orthodox Christianity, and Islam. Heresy and paganism play minor roles. Other 
 religions, notably Judaism, are not featured due to the fact that they were not the established 
 or official religions of any of the factions featured in the game. The player must monitor and 
 safeguard the spiritual state of their faction's domain, maintaining it through building places 
 of worship for their faction's religion and by training Priest or Imam units to spread their faith. 
 The presence of faiths other than the faction leader's in a city tends to generate unrest, and 
 so religious buildings and units combat this by converting people to their own religion and eliminating 
 the heretics and witches that appear on the map.
  
  Catholic factions must also contend with the Pope, who can issue missions (similar to the Senate 
 in Rome: Total War) , call for Crusades, or even excommunicate factions. A player who strongly enforces 
 the faith, builds Cathedrals and completes the Pope's missions will receive favor from the Pope; 
 a player who ignores his missions, fights with other Catholic nations and allows the faith to flounder 
 will incur the Pope's displeasure and may be excommunicated  which also leads to unrest, which 
 may cost the player's faction entire cities immediately, and the possibility of a Crusade being 
 declared against a settlement belonging to the player's faction. Papal missions pursue the interests 
 of the Catholic Church, and include the construction of religious buildings, cessation of hostilities 
 against fellow Catholics, and the assassination of heretics and witches.
  
  The Pope also appoints Priests and Bishops from the various factions as Cardinals; when the Pope 
 dies, the Cardinals elect one candidate from among the three most pious to be the new Pope. A player 
 with many Cardinals can thus use them to influence who becomes the new Pope, and how the player 
 votes in the election has an effect on the new Pope's relations with the player. However a player 
 with few or no Cardinals can still influence a Papal election by bribing other factions to vote 
 in a particular way. A chosen Pope that had belonged to the player's faction before being appointed 
 will begin with a more favorable view concerning the actions of that faction, while a Pope chosen 
 from among the units of a player's enemy may look negatively upon that player's faction.
  
  From time to time, Crusades (for Catholics) and Jihads (for Muslims) may be called at the request 
 of factions. Crusades and Jihads both use a religious leader's authority to single out a region 
 for conquest by factions of his faith; each faction of the appropriate faith may then raise Crusader 
 or Jihadist armies by committing a General and a minimum number of units. These armies gain access 
 to special religious units to recruit for use in battle. Crusades and Jihads move significantly 
 faster than normal armies, but will begin to suffer from desertion if they fail to make sufficient 
 progress or lose their leaders. Successfully capturing the target region gives rewards to the faction; 
 failure results in negative traits for the faction's leaders and the loss of the army. It should 
 also be noted that, perhaps due to a game bug, factions of religions not pertaining to a holy war 
 (be it Crusade or Jihad) may be rewarded in their participation against a target city; Hungary, 
 for example, may be rewarded at the end of a successful Jihad if it captured Constantinople from 
 the Byzantines and granted ownership of the city over to a Muslim faction despite Hungary being 
 a Catholic nation.
  
  [edit] Agents and Characters
  Each faction has a number of agents it may use to maintain order and influence other factions. 
 These include the Priests/Imams, as well as Princesses, merchants, assassins and spies. Each agent 
 has attributes that develop the more he is able to successfully be used. Princesses, for example, 
 have a Charm attribute that governs their success in diplomacy and the likelihood that a proposal 
 in marriage will be accepted. Spies have a Subterfuge attribute which governs how likely they are 
 able to infiltrate enemy cities or find information about enemy armies. Except for princesses, 
 all agents are trained at settlements which contain the appropriate buildings- for example, Christian 
 priests can be trained in any settlement with a church or chapel.
  
  In addition to their agents, each faction is ruled by a family, the male members of which act as 
 generals in battle. Each general has a number of attributes which determine how well he governs 
 a settlement and how well he leads an army in battle. A general's actions can affect his attributes- 
 for example, a general who routinely kills prisoners of war may see his dread increase, making 
 him frightening to foes; a general who prefers to release prisoners may instead increase his chivalry 
 , which makes his own troops braver.
  
  Diplomacy is performed by diplomats and princesses and functions much as in previous Total War 
 games, mainly involving negotiating treaties such as cease fires, alliances and marriages. The 
 interface for negotiation has changed from previous games, however; a new system has been integrated 
 to show the other faction's attitude toward the player's faction, intelligence estimates (such 
 as how wealthy the faction is and what other factions they are at war with) , as well as how fair 
 the other faction feels the player's proposals are.
  
  [edit] Turn system
  Unlike its predecessors, Medieval II no longer uses seasons or years as its means of keeping track 
 of time. Instead, a system of turns is used, with each turn representing two years, although the 
 season still changes each turn, as in Rome. The game begins on turn 1 (1080 AD) and ends on turn 
 225 (1530) , although players may choose to keep playing past that point. The game does keep track 
 of years; the current year can be seen in one of the information screens within the game. A side 
 effect of this new system is that there are inconsistencies. For example, while each turn represents 
 two years, characters only age six months per turn. Also, due to the movement system, when discovering 
 America, it takes about 8-10 turns (i. e., 16-20 years) to get to America from western Europe; Christopher 
 Columbus took about a month to make each of his first two voyages.
  
  [edit] Battle System
  One of the main focuses on the Total War franchise is its incorporation 
 of battle within the greater sphere of gameplay. A battle consists of two or more factions' armies 
 fighting each other. Battles play similar to those in Rome: Total War, with formations of various 
 kinds of troops fighting. The objective of the battle is defeat the enemy army by completely destroying 
 it or causing the whole army to flee; in a siege battle, the objective is to completely destroy 
 the army or to take control of a plaza in the center of the settlement. There is also an option 
 which allows the player to allow for time limits on battles, meaning that the attacker must defeat 
 the defender within a certain time limit (determined by the computer) or the battle results in 
 a victory for the defender.
  
  Unlike in previous Total War titles, a new system of modeling troops on the battlefield has been 
 introduced. Each soldier has a varying number of elements to it, such as arms, legs, body armor, 
 shield heraldry, and so forth; each element has a varying number of styles. When a battle is entered, 
 the computer randomly selects elements for each soldier in the unit, thereby making each soldier 
 look different from the soldiers around him. Upgrades to a unit's armor are also depicted- a unit 
 of unarmored spearman upgraded to have leather armor will be depicted wearing it. Another departure 
 from earlier Total War games is that combat is depicted more realistically, with soldiers performing 
 motion-captured attacks, rather than one or two standard attacks- soldiers are even depicted impaling 
 enemy soldiers on their swords or spears.
  
  [edit] Factions An in-game image showing a group of Chivalric Knights attacking Feudal Foot KnightsThere 
 are twenty-one factions, of which seventeen are playable in the Campaign game, although only five 
 are playable in the beginning:
  
  England - yellow and red (red dominant) ; Best bowmen in the game (Retinue Longbowmen, Sherwood 
 Archers) , but little variety in cavalry France - light blue and white (light blue dominant) ; Possesses 
 Gendarmes and other heavy cavalry, strong professional armies; lacks effective ranged warfare Holy 
 Roman Empire - yellow and black (black dominant) ; Strong all around, but lacks specialized late-period 
 units Republic of Venice - maroon and yellow (dark red dominant) ; Excellent infantry and militia 
 (Venetian heavy infantry) , but poor cavalry Spain - yellow and red (yellow dominant) ; Powerful 
 cavalry like Knights of Santiago The other factions may be unlocked one at a time, as soon as the 
 player has defeated that faction in the campaign (regardless of whether the player wins the entire 
 campaign) . The rest may be unlocked all at once by successfully winning the short or long campaign 
 as one of the five initially available factions.
  
  Byzantine Empire - purple and white (purple dominant) ; Excellent all around Early Period units 
 like Varangian Guard, but dearth of Late Period units and gun technology (highest level of artillery 
 is bombard) Denmark - red and white (red dominant with a seagull in the middle) ; special units: 
 Viking units such as Viking Raiders or Dismounted Huscarls, weak cavalry Egypt - representing the 
 Fatimid and successive dynasties - yellow and black (yellow dominant) ; excellent cavalry, such 
 as Mamluks, but weak infantry Hungary - salmon pink and green (salmon pink dominant) ; Strong cavalry 
 but lacking in effective basic infantry, can generate Battlefield Assassins with proper building 
 of Assassins' Guild Milan (linked with Genoa) - green and white (green dominant) ; strong Italian 
 militias and excellent Late-Period technology; poor cavalry Moors - representing the Almoravid 
 dynasty - orange and white (orange dominant) ; Useful fusion of Camel cavalry and spearmen; has 
 few, but effective, late-period units like Camel Gunners Poland - red and white (white dominant) ; 
 Possesses excellent cavalry like Hussars and Polish Nobles but mediocre infantry Portugal - white 
 and light blue (white dominant) ; Many units like Arquebusiers and Jinetes improved over normal 
 units, but lack of professional armies Russia - dark blue and red (dark blue dominant) ; powerful 
 Cossack units, such as Cavalry and Musketeers, but poor Early Period units Scotland - dark blue 
 and white (dark blue dominant) ; Best spears and pikes in the game, but cavalry is poor and faction 
 lacks any kind of notable gun technology aside from artillery and handgunners Sicily - grey and 
 black (grey dominant) ; mix of units including Muslim archers, Italian militia units and Norman 
 knights but cavalry is poor Turks - representing the Seljuk dynasty (Early Period) and Ottoman 
 Empire (Late Period) - green and yellow (green dominant) ; Game's strongest artillery upon inclusion 
 of gunpowder as well as powerful infantry and ranged units, especially Janissaries, but poor armor 
 Also, certain computer-controlled factions appear during the campaign game, but are only playable 
 in custom, historical and multiplayer battles or by editing the game files:
  
  Aztec Empire - light blue and yellow (light blue dominant) ; no weapons or armor technology, but 
 high-damage and cheap units Mongols- representing the Golden Horde - dark green and cream; Strongest 
 cavalry in the game but bad infantry Papal States - yellow and white (white dominant) ; Strong militia 
 but terrible mobility, having little valuable cavalry Timurids - black and red; Possesses the strongest 
 single regiments in the game, such as war elephants, elephant artillery, monster bombards, rocket 
 launchers; lacks infantry Rebels are also a faction, representing territories not governed by one 
 of the other major factions. Their color is grey, and they wander the map, disrupting trade and 
 ambushing the armies of the other factions. Rebels can appear if the people are disgruntled with 
 their rulers or if the entire family line of a faction dies (the faction is eliminated from the 
 game) , but the cities/castles remain, ruled independently by whoever was the governor at the time 
 of the death of the faction's last ruler.
  
  In addition to the above, the Saxons (yellow and black) , representing the Anglo-Saxon rulers of 
 England prior to 1066, appear in the historical scenario depicting the Battle of Hastings.
  
  Note - see the Komnenian army for more information on the Byzantine army of the crusading period.
 
  
  [edit] Critical Response
  The exclusive review was given to PC Gamer US, who gave it 90%. In its December 2006 issue, PC 
 Gamer UK reviewed the game, hailing it as the new king of war games . The graphics and depth of 
 gameplay were highly praised and the game received a score of 94%. IGN gave the game 8.8/10, saying 
 that the game was not as revolutionary as its predecessor, but still introduces some new ideas 
 and builds on others from Rome: Total War, which would still be enough for anybody to buy it [1] . 
 GameSpot also rated the game 8.8/10, noting its epic, engrossing gameplay whilst criticizing its 
 beefy system requirements ; fan reviews at GameSpot have it rated at 9.2/10 [2] . The Australian 
 magazine PC Powerplay gave the game a rarely awarded perfect score of 10/10 due to the sheer amount 
 of content the game contained and the next generation graphics.
  
  Although most reviews are positive [3] , some reviews have noted negative aspects of the game such 
 as pathfinding bugs [4] , weak AI and some uninteresting new features (such as the merchant characters) 
 [5] . Creative Assembly developers stated on December 1, 2006 that they are working on a patch to 
 solve reported bugs, specifically mentioning a major bug in how the game handles cavalry charges 
 (the cavalry don't always use their lances when charging) ; the patch was released on December 15, 
 2006. They also stated that they were working on a second patch that is scheduled for the latter 
 half of February 2007 [6] .
  
  [edit] Problems with the map
  Although Much of the campaign map is more or less accurate, there have been noted a few problems 
 which include (but are not restricted to) ;
  
  The Canary Islands not being included despite there being an appropriate amount of space in which 
 to include them. Provinces being named after the city rather than the actual province name (for 
 example, Wessex is known as 'London Region') The New World suffers great distortion (presumably 
 to allow it to fit onto the map with the rest of Europe or to show what geographers thought the 
 New World looked like at the time of Medieval 2: Total War) . These distortions include disproportion 
 and all the provinces are at the wrong latitude. However, due to size restrictions on the map, 
 not to mention accessibility to North America from Europe as a game element, the problem of the 
 New World suffering from displacement is an expected one. The gulf (in the Middle East) is not 
 included despite being geographically compatible with the map format. [edit] Other perspectives
 
  In addition to game reviews, historians and other critics have commented on the game. Swedish 
 historian Peter Englund wrote that the depiction of battles as an art genre of its own has long 
 existed in older media, such as films, or even older media such as tin soldiers or paintings. Englund 
 states that these older forms have failed in the depiction of battle in some way, and Medieval 
 II now represents the genre's most favourable medium. [7] .
  
  [edit] Historical inaccuracies
  Medieval II is a game in a historical setting, not a historical 
 simulation. In order to make a playable game, plenty of simplifications have been made. For instance, 
 in Medieval times there certainly wasn't a single currency of constant value in use from Russia 
 to Portugal, from Denmark to Tunisia. However different currencies with non-constant value would 
 complicate the game without making it more interesting. Likewise, when clicked on, a Danish general 
 in the 12th century for instance does not greet the player in correct 12th century Danish but in 
 modern English with a practiced Danish accent with Slavic influences. Succession law was a very 
 complex issue in Medieval times and varied a lot from country to country. In the game, it is very 
 simple.
  
  There are also some dramatizations of historical reality. Historically, medieval sieges were characterized 
 by low intensity warfare, attrition and constant negotiations. All-out assaults on the castle or 
 all-out sallies from the castle were constantly present as a threat, but usually not realized. 
 A typical solution was to agree that the castle would be given to the attackers and the garrison 
 would be allowed to leave once a condition had been fulfilled -such as a breach in the walls or 
 no relief of the siege within 40 days. Such sieges would make for pretty dull gaming, though, so 
 the game concentrates on all-out assaults and all-out sallies.
  
  Apart from simplifications and dramatizations, history must be somewhat modified to make for a 
 more interesting and balanced game. For example, Constantinople in the game is a large city with 
 only a few government built improvements. However if the game portrayed Constantinople as it was 
 in 1080, there is a possibility that the city could become the powerhouse to what would be an unstoppable 
 Byzantine Empire. Yet another example is that a princess certainly did not have to be personally 
 present for a marriage alliance to be agreed upon. If this was allowed in the game, however, a 
 princess would just be an inferior diplomat.
  
  Such simplifications, dramatizations and game-ifications are necessary and expected. However, there 
 also seem to be some genuine misrepresentations of history in the game:
  
  While the game is free form and allows for deviations from history, at the start of the campaign 
 (which takes place in the year 1080) , some of the featured cities and factions are incorrectly 
 portrayed. For example, the city of Budapest was three separate cities (Buda, &Oacute; buda and 
 Pest) until they were amalgamated in 1873. Stockholm is on the map although it was founded in the 
 13th century, as is Helsinki which was founded in 1550. In addition, Caernarfon Castle in Wales 
 was not built until 1283, Edinburgh only became Scotland's capital in the 1400s and Oslo did not 
 become Norway's capital and most important city until the 1300s. &Aring; rhus was never the Danish 
 capital, in the medieval the Danish Thing was situated in Viborg. Bucharest was not even referred 
 to until the 1400s. The borders of Poland looked different than it is shown in the game as well. 
 The capital of Poland was Gniezno, not Krakow. Some of the factions are inaccurately portrayed. 
 For example, it was only in 1143, via the Treaty of Zamora, that Portugal became formally independent 
 from Le&oacute; n; likewise, Aragon (which was a faction in Medieval: Total War) is a minor rebel 
 faction, despite playing a major role in the history of the period. Another example is that historically, 
 Milan was part of the Holy Roman Empire until attaining semi-independence in the 12th century, 
 while in the game it is a separate faction ruling Genoa. Venice owns Crete when it did not acquire 
 it until after the Fourth Crusade. Portugal owns the Algarve (which was in Moorish hands at the 
 time) and Pamplona, which was part of Navarre. Some of the rebel cities are mislabeled- an example 
 being that the Bretons are referred to as French rebels , and the inhabitants of the Scottish Highlands 
 as English rebels . In the game, the Bucharest and Iasi regions are portrayed as having a majority 
 of Catholics, presumably to allow easy access to a Hungarian player, although historically the 
 populations were Orthodox. Also at the beginning of the game (1080) the campaign map shows Sicily 
 under the control of the Normans and the establishment of the cites of Palermo and Naples into 
 one Kingdom. But the Norman conquest of Sicily against it's Islamic rulers and subsequent joint 
 kingdom did not occur until 1091. The game also shows the Byzantine Empire in control of the city 
 of Nicaea at the start of the game. In fact the Byzantines had lost Nicaea to the Seljuk Turks 
 after the Battle of Manzikert in 1071 and the Byzantines did not regain control of the city until 
 1097. However, it is reasonable to assume that many of these differences between factions in history 
 and the game is due to a wish to make the game interesting by creating playable factions of roughly 
 equal strength rather than a genuine misunderstanding of history. Some character details are inaccurate 
 as well. El Cid, who has the sobriquet the Chivalrous instead of El Campeador , is the rebel ruler 
 of Valencia at the game's beginning, although he did not install himself as its ruler until 1094. 
 Alexius I Comnenus is the Byzantine Emperor at the campaign's start, yet he did not ascend to the 
 throne until 1081; likewise, Spanish princess Teresa was born in 1080, but appears as a young woman 
 at the campaign's start. Some of the marriages are also incorrect at the beginning of the game. 
 For instance, Philip I of France is shown married to Bertrade de Montfort, which did not occur 
 until 1092. The Danish King Knud II (The Holy) 's successor to the crown, is not the so called Prince 
 Charles, but Prince Oluf, who reigned from 1086 to 1095. Also at the beginning of the game, Gregory 
 VII is Pope, which is historically accurate as well as the name Gregory, but subsequently elected 
 Popes don't choose actual Papal names. It would seem that the game-makers were willing to cheat 
 a bit with the exact chronology in order to be able to include some famous historical characters 
 from around 1080. In addition, certain historic titles do not fit within the game's character engine; 
 the Chivalrous , in terms of El Cid, is the most appropriate title for the character due to his 
 notably chivalrous nature since the title of El Campeador is not included in the game (most likely 
 due to how the title is so specifically applied) . There are some geographic inaccuracies as well, 
 such as the placement of the city of Naples south of Vesuvius and the Bay of Naples rather than 
 to the north of the volcano. The map also depicts the location of the Aztec Empire inaccurately, 
 placing it south of the Yucat&aacute; n Peninsula. In fact, the entire continents the Americas is 
 much farther to the north than it should be, with the Florida peninsula and the Caribbean lying 
 parallel to Ireland and Great Britain (However, these are likely another simplification, as the 
 map would be oddly shaped and needlessly enlarged if the geography of the New World were made to 
 be accurate) . Also the Netherlands are shown incorrectly, the western part of the Netherlands was 
 shaped using the windmill around 1634, while you get a message ingame (early in the game) that 
 the windmill is discovered. It is noted in the message, however, that the windmills produced are 
 what can be considered early prototypes, which may explain the odd showing of the Netherlands. 
 There are inaccuracies with the weapons and armor used in the game as well, most specifically the 
 arquebuses and muskets. During battles the musketeers and arquebusiers are portrayed with their 
 weapon, ammunition, and traditional Renaissance era clothing. However, during this time period 
 muskets and arquebuses were extraordinarily heavy (the barrel alone was approximately 10-12 pounds) 
 and in order to have a somewhat accurate shot the musketeer would have to use a pole to place the 
 gun on. Also, muskets and arquebuses are portrayed as having longer range than the other hand-held 
 long range weapons (bows, longbows, Mongol horse archer composite bows, etc.) . In reality a musket 
 or arquebus marksmen could only achieve a somewhat accurate range of 75 yards while a Mongolian 
 composite bow could reach an effective range of 350 yards. This is due to the barrels of arquebuses 
 and muskets lacking grooves, found in modern day rifles, that make the weapon more accurate. Another 
 weapon inaccuracy is the fact that troops transported on a fleet do not take part in the battle 
 if their fleet engages another fleet. In the real middle ages sea warfare was very much characterised 
 by boarding and fighting on the decks. Most of the European generals are portrayed wearing full 
 plate armor even at the start of the game, though armor of that type did not reappear in Europe 
 until the 14th century. Eastern Orthodox generals from Russia and the Byzantine Empire are also 
 depicted with the same armour as western generals even though splint mail was the common armour 
 for generals from Orthodox nations. As in Rome: Total War, several Latin and other words are incorrectly 
 used. For example, the singular of Preferati, the highest-ranking cardinals, is also given as Preferati, 
 instead of the correct Preferatus. Also, the German word von ( of, from ) is used in the names 
 of Holy Roman Empire characters (corresponding the the French de and the Dutch van) , while the 
 following place names are given in English. For example, instead of Maximillian von Sachsen (proper 
 German) or Maximillian of Saxony (proper English) , the game would name the character Maximillian 
 von Saxony. At least one quote shown during loading sequences is mis-sourced. The game cites the 
 following quote to Charles V of France, I speak Spanish to God, Italian to Women, French to Men, 
 and German to my Horse. In actuality, the quote is attributed to Charles V, Holy Roman Emperor. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skelebull3000
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 4, 2007 11:06 am PT
Review:  Medieval 2 is a great strategy games but one does not feel the same sensation of innovation in 
 this games as Rome: Total War did. Rome was a gem in the world of RTS' thanks to its 3D engine 
 allowing thousand's of units to be displayed at a time and although the chess board-ish gameplay 
 was nothing revolutionary in the series it was vastly improved in Rome.
  Medieval 2 has done some memorable adjustment to the franchise such us ridding us of the clone 
 wars seen in all the previous games, it also has improved the graphics and the total amount of 
 units on the screen at the same time allowing for epic battles which cannot be seen in other games. 
 The new units give a fresh feeling to the game and the era in which the game takes place is great 
 and the discovery of America gives the game a twist as well as the discovery of gun powder. In 
 my opinion, the developers could've sppent more time with the idea of the discovery of America 
 since there was a lot of potential in that idea.
  The point that disappointed me the most was the lack of naval battles and although this has also 
 not been seen in the previous games this would bring a completely new gameplay style concerning 
 how you fight the wars. The franchise always misses the importance of naval battle in the history 
 of man-kind, this could be their next objective for the developer.
  A lot of the glitches in the previous Rome: Total War games has been removed making the AI of the 
 individual soldiers better. Where as in the previous game the individual soldiers just made a wall 
 where only the front row fought this game brings the unit in a more realistic and chaotic formations 
 and the finishing moves give an incredible epic feel to the game.
  The board game has been improved visually and the additions of princesses and merchants gives the 
 player more and different ways to find a way to rule the world. You are allowed to chose if you 
 want a city built or a castle bringing new alternatives to the player. It would've been nice that 
 the player could build their own cities but you have to let the Computer do all that work for you.
 
  All in all, Mediaval 2: Total war is a fantastic strategy for veterans of the series but for those 
 of you that were looking for more innovation to the franchise shall be disappointed since it takes 
 pretty much the same formula as Rome and improves upon it which isn't necessarily a bad thing. 
 People who haven't played Rome prepare brace yourself because this game will blow you away since 
 gamess don't become more epic and immersive than this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Joe185467
Rating: 7.7
Date: Mar 4, 2007 7:56 am PT
Review:  I'm a fan of the Total War series. When I heard that Medieval II was on sale, I eagerly bought 
 it, expecting a fresh, new game. Medieval II: Total War has its merits, but it feels, more or less, 
 like Rome.
  
  Gameplay: 7 There are not many significant changes to the gameplay save for the option of having 
 cities or castles and the pope. The option of making a settlement a city or castle adds a new layer 
 of depth, with cities generating income for your empire and castles using that money (florins) 
 to build your army and protect your kingdom. In my opinion, it is a welcome addition. The other 
 major change is the pope. The pope assigns missions to your faction, ranging from taking a rebel 
 settlement to building a church. If you comply with his demands, your rating with the pope will 
 go up. If you don't, your rating will go down and you risk excommunication, or even worse, being 
 the target of a crusade. On the other hand, if a cardinal from your faction is elected pope, you 
 can expect the pope to be much more lenient towards you. The pope can be a pain much of the time. 
 There are various small changes that I won't get into, but there are no radical departures from 
 the gameplay of Rome.
  
  Graphics: 9 The attack of the clones is over! Each unit looks different now, with their own style 
 but still retaining the color of the faction. It is always captivating when you see your unit strike 
 the killing blow, thanks to new animations. The battle maps are more detailed, and the campaign 
 map has had a few tweaks too. Even better graphics this time around. (If that's even possible.)
 
  
  Sound: 9 The sound is, as always, excellent. The intense, anxious music perfectly compliments your 
 furious battles. The light, calm music goes perfectly with the slower pace of the campaign. The 
 music is great, you can listen to it for hours and not get tired of it. The battle noises are also 
 phenomenal, with plenty of shouting, marching, and cheering. The sound definitely adds a lot to 
 the game. Medieval II: Total War is a great game, don't get me wrong, but it feels a little too 
 much like the previous installment. If you own Rome: Total War and are thinking about buying Medieval 
 II, you might want to think a little more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GreySeven
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 2, 2007 8:38 pm PT
Review:  Yeah, wow, I still feel a little bit of shock about the weeks I played this game. I started some 
 of my October game buying with WarHammer, Mark of Chaos. I really liked the demo. I must have sat 
 there for hours working out my ideal army set up, the armor, the weapons, the colors, all that 
 kind of stuff that I'm addicted to. At the time, I was convinced that the demo had been watered 
 down about the customization because there weren't a lot of colors and you couldn't even touch 
 the heroes. It was no different from the real game. I was left disappointed as this had been the 
 second Warhammer game that had come with the promise of customization and not delivered in detail. 
 It bothers me when I can't play MY army in single player, but someone else's. Ugh.
  
  So I pick up Total War. I didn't like the demo - I thought the controls were awkward, I thought 
 the units were bland and boring, and I SUCKED at it. I admit. My hopes weren't high for the actual 
 game... however... damn!!!!!!!
  
  SO I have WH for like three days, didn't get far only played the multiplayer for the most part 
 then only experimented with TW and BOOM.... put WH aside like an unwanted girlfriend or boring 
 textbook. I began with England, simply because of the Long Bowmen. My overall thinking is, if you 
 can't get near me you can't hurt me. English bowmen have the longest range (outside of siege of 
 course) plus they can plant sharpened stakes in to protect against calvary charges. This tactic 
 was damn near perfect. It worked for sieges, and it worked for defending, and it worked out in 
 the open. I love england. One of the exciting parts about this game is that when you conquer another 
 faction during the single player, you can then play that faction single player. The downside is, 
 all the upgrades for cities are pretty much the same, and in the end your units (most of all the 
 ones that wear plate) end up looking pretty much the same as your enemies. Honest the early years 
 of development of the civilizations it more exciting and diverse. Later on all things are settled 
 with a cannon so... meh. Graphically is demanding, but overall solid. Up close you have a real 
 army in all the detail and shining plate you could ever want. Far off in the distance the units 
 are still visible, but simplified down to small polygons with only spec of color. This is done, 
 of course, to avoid bringing your system to a creeping halt. The battles are spectacular and dynamic. 
 You may find yourself 300 vrs 1000 and get slaughtered OR make some sort of miracle victory by 
 taking the high ground, forming a shield wall, and digging in for your life. Of course if you know 
 your units and their ability it helps a great deal.
  
  Out in the world environment, you have kind of a chess game to play. Pawns, rooks, kings, queens, 
 assassins... that kind of thing. You can take down a whole city using one of these units either 
 with brute force, or a few dedicated turns with your assassin making sabotage his single goal in 
 life. Marry off your princess to gain favor, bribe officials to take the city... it's all good. 
 Just keep in mind that battle is inevitable! If you ignore your armies you'll end up pretty screwed. 
 I didn't like the progression of time. Europe is a large place when you need to conquer it, and 
 it takes a looong time. The hours of game play are contingent only on your ability to move forward. 
 So it could be a week to win it through, or a month. Either way, each move you make progresses 
 the time line by a year or two years, something non-cool. With the way I play, which involves military 
 domination but also subtle take downs of enemies by inciting rebellion, it took me a long damn 
 time. I never got attached to my characters because they'd be toast sooner rather than later. I 
 got the hang of breeding good generals, but no matter what my own tactics were always more useful 
 than a general's in-battle traits. Seemed kinda un-worthwhile. This game is gooooooood, and I highly 
 recommend it to any fan of an RTS/TBS game... and have a love for war, blood, and intricate tactics. 
 It's worth it also for the replay value. Get it!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: godofratz
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 7, 2007 3:47 pm PT
Review:  Coming from Rome Total War, I had high expectations for this game. Yet, I was left with mixed feelings 
 about it as soon as I started playing. The games does suffer from bugs that should not been there 
 in the first place mainly involving unit pathfinding and calvary charges. The worst can be seen 
 from your very first siege battle experience. Men will get stuck on the bottom trying to climb 
 the ladders or siege towers which prevents other units from using them because they are occupied 
 . Often this leads to your men getting slaughtered and routing, even then your unit doesn't run 
 away correctly because they are still stuck on the bottom of the siege equipment. The charging 
 bug is just awful. Calvary need this to do anything at all and its a 50/50 chance of working right. 
 Sometimes your calvary will run to the spot of the enemy as soon as contact is made, then they 
 all come to a complete stop. This means there's no penetration in the line. Even worse, if the 
 enemy moves from their previous spot, your calvary will charge that spot and slow down, realize 
 the enemy has moved, chase them slowly 10ft, and basically become totally ineffective. Even as 
 calvary chases down routing units the path-finding is all over the place that you can't kill inefficiently. 
 Moreover, your foot soldiers will sometimes only engage the enemy with the first rank of men, the 
 rest just slowly wander up over time, this is true without guard mode on. Again, your men can wander 
 around and get lost from their own units. I've had a units stuck in battle because 1 Joe Shmoe 
 was 80 feet across the map attacking something he shouldn't be.
  
  I'm not saying don't get this game. There are many improvements with the engine and graphically 
 its amazing for a total war game. Just be prepared to download a bunch of mods that try to work 
 around all these bugs that exist EVEN AFTER THE v1.1 PATCH. You also want to find a mod that will 
 make the game harder or at the very least a bigger map. The AI is still pretty weak and you can 
 easily beat the game in 60 turns. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wheezy_shoe
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 1, 2007 3:13 pm PT
Review:  Although I've only been playing this for a short time, I can already see that this game is not 
 as good as the last in the series (Rome: Total War) , and I might even dare to say not as good as 
 the original Medieval: Total War. Granted, yes, the battles are graphically much better, but as 
 of yet I have not seen much differences between troops of various factions... perhaps this is their 
 attempt at making things a bit historically accurate (for once) , but it just doesn't make a good 
 game. Both sides throw a huge amount of troops into a battle, and I (since it's on easy) , win the 
 battle because I only lost 30% of my troops. Strategy rarely falls into play.
  
  Another thing: Sony did nothing but rip off things from previous Total War games. If you don't 
 believe me, then when (and if) you play the game, the graphics for building a tower/fort is the 
 exact same as in Rome! Same tower on a hill, and same fort picture too. Same prices, while at that. 
 I'll give this to them: at least they DID change the graphics of these things on the actual map.
 
  
  Lastly, the map is small. Sure, it may cover a lot of ground, but each covers a huge amount of 
 space (the whole peloponnese peninsula in greece is ruled by Corinth alone. and Thessaly controls 
 everything north of that, a bit past where the shore starts to go directly east.) The cities are 
 huge on the map when it's compared to previous games, like Rome, or Medieval, or even Shogun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halohelldaddy45
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 12, 2007 2:27 pm PT
Review:  I not too long ago wrote a review on the extremely popular Rome: Total War. I must say creative 
 assembly has everything when it comes to good developers and creative ideas. I bought this game 
 and have been playing it since Christmas, and i can honestly say the graphics are nothing short 
 of amazing. The fighting is realistic and brutal and the economics quite efficient. I do have my 
 concerns with areas such as diplomacy. Due to the fact that everytime i would ally with someone, 
 they would attack me not two turns later. With this it does start to become quite annoying but 
 a worthwhile way of gaining cities.
  Another annoying problem that seemed to tear the skull from under my face when i tried to defend 
 a castle was that the A. I. apparently has, how should i put it... no balls. They also have quite 
 a, well, retarded sense about them. They dont use much strategy in the game, making it much less 
 than what it can be.
  The Campaign A. I. on the other hand are quite intelligent, waiting for you to leave your base until 
 they attack and using spies and assassins to eliminate your defenses and generals.
  The Campaign seems to focus on Europe while not allowing you to use Middle Eastern factions until 
 you beat it with at least one faction. While this isnt such a horrible thing it can make it somewhat 
 tedious if your not very good at the game. Another thing that can occur or you can call for, is 
 a Crusade. This is a powerful weapon to gain powerful cities that otherwise might not be possible 
 to gain without having the help of other Europeans. Now in MTW2 you have a much more powerful figure 
 head that can help you expand or fall. You are all quite familiar with him, he is the Pope. This 
 time around in the Medieval world you can actually ask the pope to call a crusade or you can get 
 one of your Cardinals or priests elected to pope so that if any Europeans show any hostilities 
 towards you, they will be excommunicated which in turn will allow you to fight with them without 
 retribution. This new feature is a good way to defeat rivals without the Pope interfering with 
 your conquest.
  Another add on is the new horde, the Timurids, a dangerous foe that is just as, if not more, lethal 
 as the Mongol horde. Both are quite powerful and have troops that will kill you in the Holy land 
 if your not ready. I thought i was in one situation but found that if the Mongols couldn't fight 
 their way in, they would bribe themselves in. Battles in MTW2 are quite amazing, considering the 
 number of men that battle on the field all at one time, and the sheer tenacity of how they fight. 
 Executions have been added to this game, so if you ever played Dawn of War, your welcome to feast 
 your eyes on the bloody carnage that will go on for quite some time.
  Another thing in the game constantly bugged me, the cavalry seemed worthless when charging into 
 the frontlines of the enemy, even when they didnt have spears. I would watch my Heavy cavalry pummel 
 into the enemy only to have there horses fall and crush them. It is quite annoying but not enough 
 to keep me from playing the game.
  Thank you for taking your time to read this, and if you heed these words, this is a game for you. 
 Thats if your a RTS and turn based fan. If so go out and buy this Masterpiece that should be owned 
 by all Strategy gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JogreGT
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 28, 2007 10:59 pm PT
Review:  MTW is a kick ass game without equal outside the total war series. Everything from epic scale battles 
 to up-close and brutal details; I love the variety in armor each unit wears and all the choreograph 
 effects. The weather effects and scenery is just gorgeous and that is just the graphics. The strategic 
 depth of the game is wonderful, i just can not trying to get Heroic victories. The AI is significantly 
 better than Rome, but potential improvements are still obvious, specially when the AI is defending, 
 other wise a great game. Just wondering which epoch they will bring to life next time around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: taljr2003
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 28, 2007 10:48 am PT
Review:  Every aspect of this game rocks, sure some say its AI is hard. But, I welcome a challenge. Its 
 a true battle chess!!! Strategy is key. If you love graphic scenes , that aren't just cinematic 
 cuts, and then zooming out to get a pic of the board and calculate your move. This ones for you. 
 Theres warcraft, age of empires 3 , and then theres medieval 2. Definite buy.
  
  I've never taken the time to review a game, however, this one i had to. So if i say its good you'd 
 better believe it. Best game in the entire series. Easier to get into then the first. Better, graphics, 
 sound (directional) , Control every aspect from economy , diplomacy, prisoners, to execution. Spy 
 , assainate, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: haugeng
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 28, 2007 9:15 am PT
Review:  Prepare a glass of coffee, make yourself comfortable, and forget about sleeping. You will want 
 to conquer the world before ever leaving your room again.
  
  Though this game is best known for its massive, realistic real-time battles, there are other areas 
 of game play that cause M2-TW to really shine. When you get bored of fighting battles on the game 
 map, if you do, you can choose to use diplomacy. Bribe the enemy to your side, and if the general 
 has a false sense of loyalty and refuse to join your glorious empire, then send an assassin and 
 get him out of the way before bribing the army again. Forming alliances is also a good way of reducing 
 the number of threats and focusing your efforts.
  
  Besides diplomacy, there's two other areas of interesting play. Economics and religion. Religion 
 is the smaller aspect so I'll mention it first. There's 3 main axis to fall under. The Catholics 
 under the pope, the Islamic nations and the Orthodox Christian nations. The religion you fall under 
 largely determines who you can and cannot attack. It also tells you who to listen to, or who to 
 control so as to get others to listen to you.
  
  Economics is the way to build your empire and get the florins to build your mighty army. Trade. 
 taxes, army upkeep and constructions are things that you will be constantly monitoring to ensure 
 that you have a profit every turn. Corruption prevents you from expanding to far from your capital 
 and upkeep forces you to maintain a minimum sized army. Because of the way the economics work in 
 the game, it's much better to have more cities and a few castles. That way, your cities can provide 
 you with the cash you need.
  
  Moving away from game play, the game scores well in terms of graphics and sounds. The game looks 
 good enough to play, especially when you zoom into your units on the battlefield to just watch 
 them fight. Quite entertaining if I must say. My only complain is that the campaign map can get 
 a little cluttered sometimes and it's hard to find single units such as a diplomat or a merchant 
 when their deep in other territories.
  
  The sounds during battle are decent, with surround sound working really well especially when you 
 are being fired upon by arrows. Again, I have but one complain about the sounds, and that is the 
 repetitive soundtrack. Although it's not bad per se, hearing the same few songs for so many hours 
 has embedded them deep in my mind. I hear it even when I'm sleeping.
  
  All in all a good game. Definitely worth buying for the collection. It'll be an added bonus to 
 have a pc that can really handle the game. That way, you can turn up details to max and just enjoy 
 the experience of a medieval battle. For Saint George! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whitley1967
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 26, 2007 4:25 pm PT
Review:  I'm a long time fan of the Total War series and own all Total War games. The original Medieval 
 Total War being my favorite. The all new M2TW builds on its predecessors and does a good job at 
 that. AI rating 7.0: The AI, though still quirky at times, has still managed to surprise me from 
 time to time. However, there are quite a few inconsistencies. For example; holding Alliances. The 
 AI will tend to Backstab the Player when there really isn't any indication that it should have. 
 Tactiful rating: 7.5 - the Campaign map. I do love seeing the return of the Princesses and her 
 ability, or lack thereof, to charm her way into a new alliance for me. I equally miss however, 
 the ability to assign titles to my Generals or adopted Generals. Perhaps this will show up in later 
 patches, I know it will show up in Mods. Strategic rating: 9.0 - noone does epic battles like the 
 Total War series - enough said. New content - 9.0: There are only 5 Factions or Nations to start 
 with on the campaign (all factions unlocked after a successful completion of 1 campaign - so play 
 a SHORT campaign to start with - I recommend the English) . M2TW reintroduces those short cut scenes 
 that Vets loved in Shogun Total War such as Assassin kills and misses, Weddings, and Spying to 
 name a few. Missions are a new introduction and a bit of a side flavor to other than just trying 
 to appease the very Pious Pope. Pope Elections is a new introduction as well and does a very good 
 job of immersing the Player in this Religious ruled age. The introduction of Cities versus Castles 
 was a brilliant move on CA's part and certainly adds to the immersion. Graphics - 10: Undoubtedly 
 a very beautiful game to play. The game will introduce you to scenarios involving fog, rain, thunderstorms 
 or even fighting under a clear blue sky. The Castle renderings are magnificient, for those of you 
 with high-end computers that is. On a high-end computer I can get 60 FPS with everything set at 
 max. On a low end computer, I was able to set everything on its lowest setting and get 30 FPS - 
 so be warned. Learning Curb: Old Vets of the series will find themselves in familiar fighting grounds 
 while new players to this great series will find the learning curb is very user-friendly. Mods: 
 The Total War series has a very big and somewhat tumultous following by way of its Mod Community. 
 Some outstanding work has already made itself in the mainstream such as Lusted's Land to Conquer 
 or Yakaspats Lite Mod - both very good in their own right.
  
  Overall: This game is definately worth its weight in mayhem, glorious battles, religious strife, 
 and sheer beauty. Recommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WarGears91
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 26, 2007 3:27 pm PT
Review:  A great installment to a great series, Medieval 2 revolutionizes what Medieval 1 did, and yet cannot 
 hold a candle to Rome's online unit mix. The campaign AI is very good and pounces immediatly when 
 you are weak, but the battlefield AI is flat out stupid, and during sieges involving more that 
 one wall it is flat out stupid. While the combat graphics are amazing, the gameplay is just not 
 that much of a step above from RTW, it seems like RTW with new images and a slightly aged map, 
 with some pretty sword action for the man who likes flash and not substance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anthrax88
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 25, 2007 4:43 am PT
Review:  This is without doubt the best of the total wars yet, great graphics and great Gameplay, the amount 
 of nations is lovely even if you sometimes can end up having a war with everyone else only because 
 you havn't spent enough of your time pleasing the pope. Even though i would want a multi-player 
 campaign mode i think the only real way this game could be better is if i upgrade my own computer. 
 I already played the games campaign with several nations and i will play it with many more, and 
 i do really like the feature of unlocking more campaign countries by eliminating them. A game well 
 worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctorpik
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 24, 2007 8:56 am PT
Review:  Medieval total war 2 is an amazing game, no doubt about that. The battlefield graphics are no less 
 than fantastic, and the best yet in the medieval series. Overall the game works! But... There are 
 these few things that takes the game from being perfect, to being almost there.
  First off all the AI in the game was said to had ben improved, but i must say that in many cases, 
 especialy on the battlefield you end up waiting a half&acute; n hour on the Com to makes its move... 
 Or ending up losing important secure battles because of the AI reinforcements.!
  On the campainmap the AI works like a charm. Your alies will remain your alies, if you pay attention 
 to the relationindicator. The relation has to be perfect, before you can intirely trust them!
 
  
  Medieval 2 is definetli a game worth buying, but ill still be waiting for a AI that can give you 
 serious competition!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tlutz12
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 21, 2007 8:47 am PT
Review:  Great graphics and sound, a multitude of different units, commanding battles has never looked or 
 felt this good. The campaign map is massive and offers many ways to both assist or destroy your 
 friend and foes. The use of priests, merchants, spies, and assassins can radically alter the outcomes 
 of your campaigns. The only downsides are the is lack of available starting factions (this can 
 be easily fixed by editing a text file however) , I am also confused by the behavior of the Pope 
 as he seems to change his mind about faction relations far too often and for no apparent reason. 
 Also CPU controlled factions have no regard for alliances and will break them the first chance 
 they get, there is no loyalty and you will end up fighting with everyone everytime. Don't mistake 
 these nit-pick issues for a negative review, DEFINITELY pick this up if you are a fan of turn-based 
 OR real-time strategy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stradigust
Rating: 9.9
Date: Feb 21, 2007 7:49 am PT
Review:  I have been a total war fan since Shogun TW on through Medieval 1 and Rome. Now its time for Medieval 
 2, it takes a while to get used to the new factions, units, buildings, castles. But after playing 
 this game for a while, some of the little things that made Rome great have been taken out for MTW2. 
 Like some of the general's speeches, most of the factions use the same speeches, word for word, 
 I think thats a little cheap. And the most wonderful feature in Rome being able to look at your 
 city in real time mode. But in MTW2 that feature was removed : (. Now the graphics are the best 
 i have seen so far in a total war game and in some other RTSs. Over all this game is a new breed 
 of total war. I cant wait to see what is a round the corner. for anyone waiting for the 2nd patch 
 i have heard march 07. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iljandir
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 22, 2007 7:36 am PT
Review:  I enjoyed this game very much. The graphics, combat animations and sound was amazing. The addition 
 of the multiple walls on castle, fortress and citadel was also very nice. Many many good things 
 could be said about this game..
  
  Except one thing.
  
  The factions that are available is in my eyes are too alike. England, France, The Holy Roman Empire, 
 Venice and Spain are all very similar compared to each other and compared to all the other factions 
 out there that cannot be played in campaign. Why they didn't make it so that you could play any 
 factions from the middle-east or east-europe beats me. And not even being able to unlock any factions 
 when you complete a campaign..
  
  Now maybe i am asking much and maybe not. It just doesn't seem like so much of a problem to do 
 this when all the models is already in the game..
  
  Other than that this was an enjoyable game but Creative Assembly, please make more factions available 
 soon!
  
  EDIT
  I admit i was too fast to write this review. I now learned that there was a mod out there that 
 made all the factions available and this is very good. The reason i was dissapointed was because 
 i completed a short campaign and no factions were unlocked. Maybe a long campaign does it but i 
 downloaded a mod and it unlocked all completely. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madscientist22
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 20, 2007 12:51 pm PT
Review:  I have been a fan of the Total War Series since Medieval: Total War and while I enjoyed Rome Total 
 War, I yearned for the return to Medieval times. So logically, I was ecstatic when the series returned 
 to the Medieval era.
  
  As I have a decently strong system, I can play everything on high or above and it truly brings 
 out the beautiful graphics of the game and the removal of clones is nothing short of awesome. The 
 sound on the other hand, is slightly more lacking. While it does occasionally heighten or alleviate 
 tensions on the battlefield and is fairly good; it is not on par with the graphical level. It's 
 also not as good as the sound of Rome: Total War where I occasionally just stopped to listen to 
 the music. It's still good but doesn't play nearly often enough, leaving many silent minutes.
 
  
  It isn't exactly revolutionary compared to the rest of the games in the series but it still remains 
 largely unrivaled in terms of the epic proportions in this game. The addition of merchants as well 
 as the re-introduction of princesses and priests makes the game different from Rome for those who 
 like to use their agents frequently. Another new addition I enjoyed was how they changed the mechanisms 
 of a cavalry charge, making it more complex as well as making them weaker in melee to add more 
 depth.
  
  The game on the whole is addicting and immersive. I often sit down to play for one hour and realize 
 that I have instead played for four. The replay value is immense as there are many factions to 
 play as and each gives a different unique experience. There are also a plethora of mods that a 
 player can try and multi-player for the adventurous. It is easily worth the $50 you have to shell 
 out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skunker4455
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 19, 2007 8:07 pm PT
Review:  Medieval 2: Total war is an excellent example of the work that the creative assembly is capable 
 of doing, and it does the total war series some much needed justice after the horrible Rome: Total 
 War games. CA has done it before with the series, but Medieval 2 totally brings back the good times 
 of the first, and introduces an even more addictive campaign. Part of the greatness of the first 
 game was the fact that it didn't bother skimping on gameplay, and decided it was going to give 
 you fistfuls of it along with some decently good graphics, and let your imagination run wild! Well 
 medieval 2 is a little less with your imagination, but you can really love the beautiful battle 
 scenes and well balanced gameplay. Some fixes that I believe made the game gold from Rome was the 
 increased optimization of the engine that made me feel like I was playing a game that lagged much 
 less, even though it looked much nicer, and improvements to the functions of missile units with 
 the removal of radically fast paced combat that made Rome a frag fest. The missile units in Rome, 
 as we should know, were way overpowered. The standing strategy was to deploy a phalanx, and behind 
 it put archers and onagers (which were 100% accurate, thankfully artillery has been randomized 
 more and is fair now) which mowed down the other team's phalanx. Hopefully you could flank with 
 cavalary!
  
  Now the gameplay is much more dynamic. Cavalry isn't useful for the head on charge, but left unnoticed 
 it can attack the rear of your formation and cause a major headache. Infantry can stand up to missile 
 fire according to how well they look to be armored. For once, looks in the game mean something. 
 Your armoured swordsmen don't die as easily as those peasants, which makes quite a lot of sense. 
 You really can immerse yourself in the detail, and it adds to the experience.
  
  The only disappointment i have is the fact that Medieval II still uses gamespy arcade, which is 
 a god awful multiplayer system. Don't plan on continuous mp!
  
  Overall this is a great game, and well worth the price! It will give you countless hours of campaigning 
 in your quest to unite the medieval world under your banner, whatever the means. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snoopeymaster
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 19, 2007 8:07 pm PT
Review:  Ok so this game is extremely addicting BUT................
  
  if it wasn't for the great community i wouldnt be playin this, you ask why? well here your answer:
 
  
  Ok they make mods, u know why? well just guess, if u guessed because there are glitches YOU ARE 
 MOREEEEEE THEN RIGHT.
  These people take their time making mods fixing games without getting anything.
  FIXiNG THESE 
 BUGS AND GLITCHES IS CA JOB and not the communities.
  its very dissepointing that CA makes all these money and the community is really the one doin everything.
 
  So when u buy this game make sure to download one of these mods, ultimate AI mod, Lands to Conquer, 
 Stainless steal and ect. Make sure to read and find the one that suits u.
  
  WITHOUT THE MODS THIS GAME IS NOT WORTH PLAYIN!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobby-jonh
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 18, 2007 9:22 am PT
Review:  This is an amazing game. Espicially if you like the total war games. The graphics are amazing and 
 the battle are very very very realistic. If you zoom in close you will see your knights perfom 
 combos like: with a hit he disarms the opponent and then stabs him, then as the enemy is on his 
 knees he gives the finishing move, a slash upward cutting his opponent's face and chest.
  
  Even thought i love this game and that it'll kill me to do it, i do have to say that there are 
 many bugs. The biggest one, in your cities it'll will only show your income and not your spending. 
 You will always think one of your cities id making like 1500 per turn while its actually making 
 like -100. The computer does get retarded and does not move or anything once in awhile. And the 
 patch 1.1 was suppose to fix all those other bugs that i won't mention but it didn't i find it 
 actually worse.
  
  But also there are cool new things like: pope and religions, crusades, herecy etc... Also new videos 
 for assasinations and spying. like you'll see your assasin throw a knife and kill his target or 
 other ways of killing and if he gets caught the video changes.
  
  Pretty cool and fun but i'd say wait a little the bugs will be fixed and the prices will go down. 
 Wait till aall thats clear and then you can go and crusade against the world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hitman140
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 15, 2007 2:44 pm PT
Review:  Hail ! Iv'e played all of the TW series ( including expansions ) from Shogun to Med 1 to Rome to 
 the current Med 2 . To me their is always room for improvement &amp; Activision &amp; Creative 
 Assembly ( Sega ) continue to move forward with the TW series. I hope many other great titles are 
 planned for the future ? Med 2 TW is such a pleasure to play that I try to pencil in at lest 2-4 
 hours of gameplay a week. Sure I'm still learning and trying different strategies &amp; by doing 
 so have experienced many different outcomes. I find the best plan for great victories is clever 
 diplomacy &amp; tactical warfare. Developing your nations &amp; expanding your trading options 
 can also aid you in building your empire. Just beware who you trade with. Your decisions in the 
 end determine outcomes that may change the course of history.... The artwork , environments &amp; 
 battle maps are wonderful &amp; at times challenging which is how it should be. If your playing 
 Med 2 TW for the first time make sure you download the patch to fix &amp; update you game files. 
 If you love this game or series then become a Total War Union recruit. Learn &amp; discuss your 
 TW victories, tactics, hints etc...... with me and my fellow TW clansman. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikanseijin
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 14, 2007 1:08 pm PT
Review:  One more turn indeed. Considering each turn can last up to 45 minutes, I found myself thinking 
 the phrase over and over for hours on end. The learning curve is somewhat easy, since I've followed 
 the Total War saga since the Shogun days, and didn't have trouble at all picking up the game right 
 away. Noticeble strategic new features from the last expansion, Barbarian Invasions, include training 
 of priests, merchants and having princesses as extra diplomats. The Papal State faction replaced 
 the Roman Senate and sends Inquisitors and Heretics to kill your units for heresy. Moreover, settlements 
 can be converted to either a castle or city. Having played this game for about 3 days straight 
 now, I have to be honest and say I haven't utilized the new units at all. Maybe it's a drawback 
 in a sense that the AI doesn't play a game where they come in handy (I'm playing on Very Hard) . 
 I found myself training dozens of assassins and killing off these units when they enter my borders. 
 Apart from that, I haven't figured out why Inquisitors kill certain units for heresy and not others. 
 They are in my opinion, the most annoying things ever. You have to send atleast 3-4 assassins to 
 kill them, and you probably want to. Leave a general alone next to the guy, and he'll be dead. 
 Mind you, I'm not big on religion building, so that might be the problem. The new settlement feature 
 however, is something new and enjoyable. It presents a much more realistic feel for your faction, 
 and adds a much more difficult aspect to the game. For instance, if all your border provinces are 
 cities, you will not be able to train decent units for a respectable defense. That's what all your 
 castles are for, and this brings a strong aspect of warfare into the game; supply lines. I found 
 my empire growing and shrinking constantly, where as in Rome you can stack troops as soon as you 
 conquer a new town. The AI has also improved drastically this time around. The computer will now 
 attack multiple provinces at once, so unlike Rome, you cannot empty all your lands and focus the 
 defence on one border territory. Having just bought a BFG 7900GS video card, the battles now are 
 jaw dropping. The units look prerendered, and now there is blood! Clone armies are gone, lighting 
 is severly improved, and the weather effects are spectacular. The biggest difference is assaulting 
 cities vs. castles. Castles are much more harder to assault, because of multiple walls. And oh 
 yea, there's a big castle. Cities are much more bigger, with more streets and places to bottleneck. 
 However, there is a drawback to all this, and it is a big drawback; fighting on walls, siege towers 
 and ladders. Your troops again might get stuck on a siege tower and not move at all, worse yet 
 the computer's troops will get stuck and you have to destroy the siege tower from below just to 
 finish the battle. Something unbearable in Rome. Units will again horde at the bottom of a ladder, 
 no shield up and prone to missile fire. Spies open castle gate doors, but not the bigger wall surrounding 
 the town. Thanks so much for that helping hand, I'll make sure to give you a spy-medal when all 
 my soldiers are dead from assaulting the first wall. All in all, this game is one of the best I've 
 played in a long while. Definitely worth the value and play. If you're really nit picky about certain 
 things, I'd say wait for the patches. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: baidas4
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 14, 2007 12:43 pm PT
Review:  Creative Assembly, developers of the latest highly anticipated addition to the Total War series; 
 Medieval II: Total War, as an evolution of the series. Wed nicely call that humility. What most 
 developers call an evolution in actually, in the case of Medieval II, a complete overhaul. Every 
 aspect of this wonderful game has been enhanced.
  
  Medieval II is as near enough to a completely new game as you could wish for.
  Having forged 
 ahead year after year with the Total War series, Creative Assembly knows what its fans want, and 
 largely, thats detail. This successful strategy series now comfortably outguns Civilization IV 
 for being a complete recreation of races at war, their economies, religions, cultural particulars, 
 military and history.
  
  Its turn-based meets real-time combat says Creatives Dan Toose. We moving to evolve the series. 
 Toose continues. We found that Medieval was the most popular of the Total War series. Were taking 
 what we learnt from Rome and applying it to Medieval.
  
  The period Medieval II is set in is 1080AD through to 1530AD  as era Toose describes as the last 
 romantic period of warfare. Its an era where people have to answer for everything.
  
  Creative Assembly has an unusually close connection with its community of fans  even so far as 
 to employ full-time playtesters from the community, and basing them in its Brisbane HQ.
  
  A lot of work has gone into overcoming the feeling in all previous Total War games that youre 
 running an army of clones. The results are spectacular. Each soldier in a line, or a battle, moves 
 to his own beat. Youll never see a row of clones all locked into the same movement animations. 
 Watching a battle rage onscreen now seems far more realistic, messy, and human.
  
  Creative Assembly has worked to add individual traits to each soldier on the field, without compromising 
 the need for uniformity. Each soldier has slightly different articles of clothing and weapons markings. 
 Best of all, its historically accurate. Heraldry was researched for units and the families that 
 fought in them.
  
  Like that? Then youll love that theres persistent damage that carries through a campaign. A soldier 
 may loose a helmet in a battle, for example, and be helmet-less for the rest of the game. Chinks 
 may be cut off shields, etc, and that damage carries over.
  
  Another example of sameness that Creative Assembly has worked to overcome is the castles design. 
 While nice enough, the castles of Medieval and Rome were low poly count grids. Flairless and with 
 a dull right-angle form with a great big square in the middle of every one as a rallying point. 
 Now a ton of effort has gone into creating complex and organic castles. Two and even three ring 
 castles are now the norm, and the layout feels much more authentic.
  
  Theyre destructible now, too! Finally artillery damage looks genuine and messy. While not quite 
 at a per brick level, the destructibility should satisfy the most finicky of gamers.
  
  And Total War gamers are finicky. To satisfy their demands for historical accuracy Creative Assembly 
 engaged in extraordinarily deep research. You can be sure that if you see something in the game, 
 it was meant to be there. While touring Creatives development HQ I was dumbstruck at the hundreds 
 of books they have detailing every conceivable aspect of cultures covered. Yes, Dorothy, there 
 are entire books on 13th century German sword fighting techniques, and yes, Creative owns them 
 and has incorporated the moves into the game.
  
  Cities themselves and how they grow have been tweaked. Among many improvements is the effect surrounding 
 terrain has upon a citys economy. If, say, nearby a city is suitable areas for stone mining, then 
 eventually stone masons will front up and offer to work for you.
  
  A new unit  the Merchant  will be in the game, a no brainer that, we reckon. Use him to set up 
 trade routes between cities, just like youd expect. The further a city is the greater the benefit. 
 A concept were well familiar with from Civ.
  
  Also most Civ-like is the revamped Diplomacy, which effectively offers the same settings as Civ, 
 with the same leader screen. Total War games have needed proper diplomacy and this is a most 
 welcome addition. Previous Total War games were based on points, and this hasnt changed. What 
 is new is that
  all your actions and their effects are now transparent. Make a peace offering and youll now see 
 exactly works, taking the fuzzy guesswork out of the equation.
  
  Extra cool is the new sell your daughters option. Although it probably wont be called that. 
 As a King, you can use your daughter as a strategic asset, marrying her off to gain a slice of 
 another empire. As you do. Another politically unfashionable, but realistic, option is to declare 
 a Jihad if youre a muslim state. Told you these guys were fanatical about historical accuracy.
 
  
  Medieval II has just moved into beta stage, and the team at Creative is now settling into months 
 of play balancing before the Christmas release. This game is feature rich like no other and is 
 looking good to satisfy hardcore fans of the series, as well as pull in many new gamers to this 
 rich and satisfying game world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kiwi1
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 14, 2007 12:48 am PT
Review:  Hail ! Iv'e played all of the TW series ( including expansions ) from Shogun to Med 1 to Rome to 
 the current Med 2 . To me their is always room for improvement &amp; Activision &amp; Creative 
 Assembly ( Sega ) continue to move forward with the TW series. I hope many other great titles are 
 planned for the future ? Med 2 TW is such a pleasure to play that I try to pencil in at lest 2-4 
 hours of gameplay a week. Sure I'm still learning and trying different strategies &amp; by doing 
 so have experienced many different outcomes. I find the best plan for great victories is clever 
 diplomacy &amp; tactical warfare. Developing your nations &amp; expanding your trading options 
 can also aid you in building your empire. Just beware who you trade with. Your decisions in the 
 end determine outcomes that may change the course of history.... The artwork , environments &amp; 
 battle maps are wonderful &amp; at times challenging which is how it should be. If your playing 
 Med 2 TW for the first time make sure you download the patch to fix &amp; update you game files. 
 If you love this game or series then become a Total War Union recruit. Learn &amp; discuss your 
 TW victories, tactics, hints etc...... with me and my fellow TW clansman. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nabeel200
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 29, 2007 9:32 pm PT
Review:  i think if u r a big rts fan, then u will feel that every penny is worth it. the planing n the 
 execution of the moves on the battle map is just great. it takes rts gaming to another lvl. i have 
 played the Rome total war series also ,n i think that the developers have done a good job to make 
 it as new as possible . but there r a few flaws that need attention such as the AI n the rebellion 
 situation. it has been improve very much since the Rome total war. but still it need a little looking 
 i to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BBBeerad
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 12, 2007 11:10 am PT
Review:  I have to say, I was a big fan of the original Shogun: Total War game and had played a little of 
 the other Total War games as well. I had high hopes for this one. I'm really impressed with the 
 graphics and the detail that they have put into the character animations. Unfortunately my system 
 (and a few other systems I've heard with ATI graphics cards) have lockup problems after a couple 
 hours. I can only assume this is due to the heavy graphics requirements of the game. Gameplay wise, 
 I love the new pathing of armies on the strategy portion of the game and even though the tactical 
 battle aspect hasn't changed much since the orginal game (still the best out there) , there is some 
 improvements to the AI and look of every battle. The Sound is very good as well. Well done background 
 music and very well done voice acting shows again the attention to detail for every faction.
  The pricetag was on par with most new games, which is still a little high in my opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TMcCutchan
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 10, 2007 3:09 pm PT
Review:  As of this write there is already one bug release (patch) for the game with a major one to follow. 
 This is the fourth Total War Game I have bought (Medieval, Rome, Barbarian and Medieval II) and 
 to be honest, sometimesI feel like I am playing Rome TW with a skin upgrade. The bad thing is, 
 I feel like I am playing Rome TW before they fixed a lot of the bugs. I wished I would have waited 
 for the major bug release to purchase it. I am tired of Creative (and other game publishers) putting 
 out buggy games. Next time, Creative will not receive the full price, no matter what they do. I 
 will wait for the bug releases.
  
  If this is your first Total War, then by all means, what are you waiting for? Spend that hard earned 
 cash, you will love it. If you exhausted Rome &amp; the expansions, the reskins, new units, and 
 sounds are great, but wait for the major bug release (and perhaps a cheaper price) you will have 
 fun playing and learning some of the new along with playing with most of the old.
  
  Love the most:
  
  New skins, New units (late cannons rock!) , two city types (high end castles 
 have outer and inner walls) , chivalry and dread tacks for generals, strategic map is way more important, 
 sound is fabulous (like always)
  
  Hate the most:
  
  Buggy release (Unit tracking especially) , AI is kind of a let down (no real upgrade from RTW) , 
 No naval battles, diplomacy still needs work (not enough options to keep other factions happy or 
 to get them out of your territory)
  
  Things to look for if you played RTW:
  1. Merchants can add a shot of cash by overtaking other merchants
  2. You can up the diplomacy 
 of other factions (esp Papal) by giving them cash
  3. Be careful about allowing your cities to go over to the rebels (I used to do this in Rome just 
 to kill off my population) because they will destroy a lot of your city upgrades. 4. Plan early 
 what you want your cities to specialize in and build those buildings, later on you will get guilds 
 that will improve those units.
  5. You can't transfer retinues anymore, but you can guide generals tracks a bit better.
  6. You 
 will stay up late and live without sleep again.
  
  Justification for 7 gameplay and lowered value are the damn bugs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VercettiTommyy
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 10, 2007 5:26 am PT
Review:  Rome Total War &amp; it's expansions Barbarian Invasion &amp; Alexander was one of the best strategy 
 games ever seen. Now comes the sequel, Medieval II Total War. The graphics are just amazing &amp; 
 the blood &amp; dust effect is realy fantastic. The graphics are better than the ones of any strategy 
 game. The music is very relaxing &amp; well-chosen, although it's not better than the one from Rome 
 Total War. The other sound effects, like voice, battle sounds, are simply superb. The gameplay is somehow 
 too similar to the one from Rome Total War. There are some new elements, like merchants, princesses, the 
 Pope &amp; The Council of Nobles, the Cardinals, the priests, etc. But no essential changes. But, as 
 big gaps in the gameplay, I remind the inquisitors, who, in history, did not kill the rulers or royal 
 family members, as it is in Medieval II. &amp; once, when I was playing with England, I wasn't in 
 good relations with the Pope, he called a Crusade on one of my towns, Toulouse. What the damn fu*k? Or 
 the acess to the New World, to the Aztecs, is locked for a while,&amp; that's historically correct. But 
 what if I tell you that in my campaign with the English, the Danish conquered Jerusalim, the French 
 had Budapest, Bran &amp; Bucharest,&amp; the Mongols owned all Greece. This part of the gameplay 
 from Medieval II sucks. Although there are some problems in the gameplay, they didn't prevent me 
 from giving Medieval II Total War a 10. It deserves it. But I want to say that if Creative Assembly 
 won't come up with a different Total War gameplay in their next independent Total War game, they 
 will not have the succes they had with Rome or Medieval II. As for the next Total War game, it will 
 be nice to have a New World-Total War or an Industrial-Total War. Till 2012 or so, I hope we'll get 
 a World War I &amp; II-Total War... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eskimo22
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 9, 2007 10:26 pm PT
Review:  This game is a definate eye opener. Gamplay is very creative. Great aspects of the game especially 
 the traits and what not. Good battle scenes with lots of detail. Battle screen and gameboard screen 
 affect on another. Something i would recommend is ability for more men per army but that is just 
 me. I would like to see a game like this with sequals all the way up to modern day. It would be 
 quite interesting. Definatley worth a try and addicting once you start getting into it. Lots of 
 units and variations of units a high recommondation of mine for sure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TankmanT34
Rating: 6.8
Date: Feb 9, 2007 3:02 am PT
Review:  We shall win this battle for England my lord! And so begins another dive into the landscape of 
 medieval Europe to bludgeon ones opponent into submission, or see your army crumble and break 
 in the process. Addictive or Repetitive?
  
  This raises two issues at first that will always be difficult and central problems in the development 
 of strategy games. The first is the level of detail. Wherever they are fought, the battlefields 
 of Medieval 2 are invariably sparse and similar. Clearly, as processing power increases these landscapes 
 are on a continuum that will become ever more complex. In time their gently undulating hills and 
 plains will be moulded into difficult to navigate precipices (rather than merely impassable areas) 
 and tangles of common land criss crossed with corn fields, hedges and ditches. It is important 
 not to see a game in isolation, but as part of the series it has arisen from. It is also a part 
 of the overall continuum of development, a journey along which it only forms one small (if it is 
 lucky large and iconic) signpost. We can assure ourselves that the level of detail will improve 
 throughout time. After all, that is precisely the reason that Medieval 2 exists! If it were not 
 for the level of detail, the game would be a carbon copy of its predecessor.
  
  And here we come to our second point. The fundamentals of the game have not changed in step with 
 the level of detail. However much we as gamers want to convince ourselves that we are playing a 
 new game, we know deep down that the experience we are getting is only very slightly different 
 from that of Medieval 1. If all the keystrokes and inputs of users of the two games were recorded 
 over say, the course of campaign, the vast majority would be the same. All the players would still 
 go on trawls of their cities to make sure that building and recruitment did not stop. Each would 
 build up overwhelming force wherever possible before taking it to battle (which would usually guarantee 
 victory) . Each would get into a sound pattern of deploying their army for each of the two or three 
 battle types (open field, bridge defence or siege) , and stick to that formation. Is there a problem 
 with these repeated actions? The frightening addictiveness of all the games in this series is evidence 
 that something within our brains really responds to the neatly ordered repetition of a set of commands. 
 On one level, the attention to detail and the creation of greater visual variety (whether it is 
 in landscapes or in the accoutrements of your troops) does provide new stimuli. But ironically, 
 these graphic improvements are ultimately key in shortening the appeal of a game, not lengthening 
 it. They are the reason we would not return to play this games predecessors, as their visual appeal 
 now seems dated. Eventually too we know that we will become bored of this game. But is this purely 
 because of the clothes it wears becoming too familiar? Or has the underlying bone structure of 
 the game got more to answer for? Let us take the deployment for battle. We all know that in the 
 game (as in history on the medieval battlefield) the way that troops are deployed is crucial to 
 ones chances of destroying your opponent, or being destroyed. It is normal human behaviour to 
 experiment until a pattern is found that works, and then to stick with it. The routine of doing 
 this appeals to the ordering function of the brain. The sight of your troops arrayed in neat 
 bodies, archers in front, heavy infantry behind and cavalry on the wings is both reassuring and 
 appealing to the methodical, ordering part of our mind. The problem comes when battle is initiated. 
 The best commanders are ones that can deal not with a neatly ordered situation but with the fact 
 that no plan survives contact with enemy. At least that maxim holds true in the historical reality 
 of battle between human soldiers, commanded by human generals in the real world. In all of the 
 Total War series, the fact that it is always the temptation to stick absolutely rigidly to a single 
 deployment pattern and plan of attack is evidence that it is all too easy for a plan to survive 
 contact with your AI opponent. I am sure you will nod your head as you read this, but we have all 
 been there. At a certain stage in the game (usually when you have accrued enough resources that 
 you dont have to use whatever troops you can lay your hands on) , the ordering process gets to 
 such a stage that you will actually start to become uneasy about committing to battle purely because 
 you havent got exactly the correct number of units, of the right type, and all at full strength, 
 in order to fulfil your perfect deployment. When one stops for reflection this seems absurd! 
 It is well known throughout history that some armies, hitherto fantastically successful, became 
 crystallised in their moment of greatest triumph. Their reward for such powerful stagnation was 
 to be swept away by new methods of fighting. So why, as the game goes on, does the impulse for 
 uniformity and ordering in every aspect of our empires get to such obsessive levels? It seems that 
 invariably we strive to create a perfect system of empire, with pacified home territories, merchants 
 that are safe from interference, and systematic conquest and absorption of new territories into 
 this pattern. Here we arrive at the nub of the issue, and the central obstacle to the development 
 of strategy games that are more realistic, exciting, easy to learn but difficult to master and 
 so on. The Artificial Intelligence. This has developed a tiny amount in the entire series of Total 
 War games. Small incremental changes have been possible, but one cannot deny that both the turn 
 based and realtime AI of the game presents today virtually the same experience and challenges as 
 it did in Shogun, Total War. Visual and audio detail and design can be subjected to incremental 
 improvements, and indeed they have in this series. But the incremental improvements that an Artificial 
 Intelligence engine can be subjected to are minimal. Whereas each game in the series has been dressed 
 in ever finer and more intricate robes, its underlying bone structure has remained the same. In 
 letting the ordering function take over our gaming experience we are not responding the challenge 
 laid down by the computer AIs, but to the lack of it. The settings of easy to very difficult 
 essentially make very little difference to this AI. They merely shave off, or add on the layers 
 of aggressiveness and intensity with which the AI pursues what is essentially the same strategy 
 and tactics. Whether the setting is easy or difficult, the AI will still make the same attack on 
 your city, just with less units (either because it chooses to use less or because the setting 
 handicaps it into doing so) . On the battlefield it will still pursue the same attack time and again, 
 just with greater or lesser forces committed to it.
  
  Let me not appear too harsh and arrogant. By the standards of the day, the entire Total War series 
 is a brilliant amalgamation of two well known formats (real time combat, with turn based administration 
 and manoeuvring) . Medieval 2 is more beautiful, more intricate and more rich in its evocation of 
 a paradigm of warfare in human history than anything that has gone before it. The game claims to 
 have unparalleled historical accuracy, and the series has come leagues farther than any other in 
 modelling the medieval world and its combat (so much so that Rome, Total War provided a platform 
 for a TV series examining ancient battles, Time Commanders) . However if its wants to claim historical 
 accuracy, it is a long way from reality. The game designers know that Medieval 2 is a game before 
 it is an interactive documentary. Artificial Intelligence cannot just be improved upon like game 
 artwork. To create a truly challenging and adapting strategy gaming experience one must head back 
 to the drawing board. In time this need will become ever more pressing as the repetitiveness of 
 gaming strategy required by a player becomes reinforced and players get more bored more quickly. 
 The overall concept of the game is fantastic, and the possibilities for improvements to its look 
 have only the limit of computing power as their ceiling. But to make a game that tests the player, 
 and forces them to adapt their ways of managing and forging their empire, changes at the deepest 
 level of programming must be wrought. If it wants to survive in the long run as the leading series 
 it currently is, Total War must see a Total Revolution. If anyone can do it, surely it is these 
 guys. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Merry
Rating: 6.7
Date: Feb 9, 2007 2:46 am PT
Review:  this game is great i love the graphics. but the game isn't perfect while you are on the campaign 
 map you will be subjected to your allies turning on you for no reason and at the worst possible 
 time. you being penalized for defending yourself by fending off attackers. you can choose to either 
 pick the long or short campaign. the short campaign has you either eliminate a faction or two and 
 hold a certain number of regions. and the long campaign has you going after all regions. this annoys 
 me the most while i'm trying to complete the mission and attack a neighboring region that is one 
 of my target factions the pope tells me to call off all hostilities against them and if i continue 
 my attack my standing with the papal states will not be as high as it was. what is the point of 
 making missions if you are going to have to risk being excommunicated or fail the misssion. i have 
 failed many missions because of this and although the graphics are impressive the problems are 
 causing me to not give it a perfect score. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Encell
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 8, 2007 6:21 am PT
Review:  Yes, is just Rome in new clothes but who cares? I find the Medieval so much more interesting because 
 of all the developed powers in Europe and such, it's just the atmosphere of the time period I guess.
 
  
  Gameplay is identical to Rome, so if you are familiar with it you'll know just how fluid and effecient 
 things are. The battles now have an added panic button that highlights your forces and the enemies, 
 just so you know how things are working out for your little guys.
  
  The campaign map hasn't changed much, of course with the exception of the New World which eventually 
 will be available for discovery its very similar to Rome. Now, instead of the Senate, Catholic 
 factions have to please the Pope. This is done by building churches, completing missions and killing 
 off heretics and witches. Should you have enough favour with him, you can even request crusades-of 
 course this is a lot easier if your priests are elected to the College of Cardinals, with the potential 
 to become the next Pope...
  
  Overall, Medieval II is a fantastic and epic game- larger than Rome and far more exciting with 
 the addition of guns and cannons, to name a few things. You'll enjoy every minute of it and become 
 a power crazy meglomaniac in the process. (A word of warning though: don't try to conquer the Papal 
 States, they just reappear somewhere else to start up again. This should save you the time I wasted.) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tziganu_36
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 24, 2007 12:50 pm PT
Review:  MTW2 it's a great game... no doubt about it. I won't mention the good sides because there are a 
 handfull. Graphics, battle, an so all great looking.
  
  Well the diplomacy is plain absurd... don't even bother whit it. Kill everyone.
  The nice part 
 is that is pretty easy to kill all the factions.. no AI at all at the strategic level. No surprise 
 landing, no coordination among allies... nothing.
  The battles are also boring at some point... push the infantry, envellop with cavalry and... job 
 done. Well, 95% of the battles anyhow.
  
  But the most absurd thing is the horde. Because of their inabillity to create a challenging AI, 
 the creators decided that they need a Deus Ex Machinae the old greek invention for lousy playwriters. 
 An thus: The Horde.
  
  The Horde appear when it suppose to, but reamin on the map indefinitely. If by any chance your 
 kingdom is a bit further to the west - don't worry - the horde will travel to you... ignoring the 
 historical truth and all the enemy on it's path - Subotai's dream of a western campaign come truth. 
 Even in England if it's necessary, just to oppose you a real threat... not by inteligence but by 
 NUMBERS alone... If by any chance you manage to kill the first wave (usually 5 full armies of elite 
 warriors with 6 stars generals or more) , others will soon follow. It's lame all the way.... the 
 good: nice graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bumbro8521
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 6, 2007 4:40 pm PT
Review:  do i need to comment, i mean that if youve played any of the other games minus spartan total warrior, 
 this is up their with gta, elder scrolls, and mario. the only problem was that you have to buy 
 it at gamestop or eb games to get the full deal. of course you have to be prepared to spend countless 
 hours at a time (this time will seem like minutes if your not careful!!!) if you disagree then i 
 want you to ebay all your games and go back to watching porn. however if youre like 99.9% of gamers 
 youll find yourself believing that the english isles have been united since 1248 and germany is 
 called the holy roman empire. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: x_war_ranger
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 6, 2007 1:54 pm PT
Review:  Overall, it's a great game with a lot of depth. From the character models and great battle animations, 
 the game immerses you into a medieval environment.
  As far as gameplay goes, it took myself about an hour to get used to interface with added features. 
 If you've played Rome: Total War, then you'll just fit right in. There are just a few more things 
 that you have to keep tabs on compared to Rome: Total War, like inquisitors. They tend to execute 
 your generals if they have a really low piety rating. Meaning, if they're not too righteous in 
 a mortal sense, they'll get executed. Other than that, battles are great. Battles portrayed in 
 this game have got to be the best in-game battles across any system.
  Graphics are just great compared to many of the strategy games out there. The developers have set 
 their own standard in this genre which no other developer, imo, can come close. The bloom effects 
 give the game's graphics a more realistic feel.
  The sound of the game is amazing. When you zoom into marching units, you can here the sound of 
 hundreds of feet pounding the dirt, weapons clanging, horses' horseshoes stomping the ground and 
 the creaking of wooden trebuchets winding up to launch a nasty surprise to whoever is on the receiving 
 end.
  All-in-all, the good things about this game make up for the little annoyances you may run into. 
 If this is the going to be the first time you've played a game in the Total War series, this game 
 might just be for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NFSC0297
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 6, 2007 8:06 am PT
Review:  Ok, when you first enter Medieval 2, you will think it is another normal Strategy game. Wrong. 
 Medieval 2 is perfect. Great graphics and superb game play.
  
  There are a few modes available to you from the start. Firstly, there is a tutorial, made into 
 2 parts. The first one is The Battle Of Hastings, in which you control Rufus in an attempt to defeat 
 Harold The Saxon. The second tutorial is The Norman Conquest, where you will learn how use the 
 campaign interface, learn how to take over other cities and learn how to use siege equipment.
 
  
  There are also custom battles, where you choose your empire, your map, your period of time, what 
 fortress someone will have and you can choose your army.
  
  Plus, there is a quick battle mode, which chooses empire, map and men for you.
  
  Also, you 
 get Historical battles, some of which are The Battle Of Agincourt, where Henry V of England manged 
 to beat the odds and defeat a French army. There is also The Battle Of Hastings, which is different 
 than the tutorial Battle Of Hastings. These battles normally tip the odds in favour of the AI.
 
  
  Finally, there is The Grand Campaign, the meat of Medieval 2. Here, you control one empire, hoping 
 for total domination. I will not give away any of the big campaign events, as it will spoil it 
 for you.
  
  The game play is great, the best RTS gameplay I have ever played (and I own over 10 RTS's) . The 
 big difference between this and other RTS's is that you get to field thousands of men. This is 
 where the only problem happens.
  You will need a beefy PC to support big battles perfectly.
  
  Overall Medieval 2 is a must 
 have. You have to spend the $50 on this masterpiece of a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bireno
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 5, 2007 1:10 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: They're pretty nice, with that said.. you'll probably need a high end computer to run 
 the game maxed out with antialiasing; but if you can - it's worth it. The map is nicely done, and 
 the battles are even better.
  
  General: The game is pretty broad. It focuses mostly on economics, but also has a sort of battle 
 'minigame' - You can either choose to fight battles yourself or automatically resolve them if you're 
 in a hurry. Automatically resolving often leads to more troop losses though.
  
  The good: Graphics, sound, economy, vastness.
  The bad: Needs a pretty beefy computer to run, 
 some annoying lag at times, the user interface could use some improvement.
  
  Overall, I've played this game once through. It's meant to be one of those games you come back 
 to and play through as a different civilization, race, species or whatever .. to get the most out 
 of the game, but I just can't see myself playing it again (I've got a short attention span when 
 it comes to games, and tend to play them just once through) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: junahia
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 4, 2007 9:11 am PT
Review:  Medieval 2: Total War is far better than any of the prior version of the Total War Franchise, in 
 my game. While the earlier versions have still been good, I think Medieval 2 has brought together 
 all the aspects of the game to form one great looking strategy game.
  
  Gameplay: The game rules. The ability to do anything that you would want to do with your kingdom 
 is in this game. It is easy to do any of the actions, as you can assassinate, spy, attack, siege, 
 denounce heretics and more. It is simply a great game to play with as you move throughout.
  
  Graphics: When you have the world view up, there's not too much to look at. The landscape looks 
 fine, and you can see your armies and cities and the like, but not much more. The graphics are 
 great, however, in the mini-movies that appear when you send out a spy or assassin on a mission. 
 It's fun to watch your spy dress up as a tree as he sneaks into a castle, or watch your bad assassin 
 get a door kicked into his face. The graphics in these movies are great as the texture and detail 
 of the environment is taken in. In all, though, the graphics are perhaps at their best in the combat 
 modes. All the different characters actually look different and unique in the battles, and you 
 watch it all unfold in front of your eyes.
  
  Sound: Well, there's not that much sound going on in the game to be honest. There's the medieval 
 type music playing constantly in the background, a cheer of victory when you win a battle, and 
 a small sentence given here or there by your agents. In all, sound gets to be a bit repetitive, 
 and you could easily play with it on mute. Value: This game is great, don't worry about the price, 
 get it.
  
  Tilt: I thought it was a great game, and I look forward to playing this game for a long time, until 
 Medieval 3 comes out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GoldenSilence87
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 2, 2007 6:07 pm PT
Review:  Epic has always been a fair adjective used in describing the Total War series. Be it fedual Japan, 
 ancient Rome, or the Middle Ages the Creative Assembly has always managed to cram a whole lot of 
 game into a, um, rather large amount of hard drive space. But I digress. This game, the second 
 go round for the Middle Ages theme, is completely worthy of the Total War name. Be it the huge 
 number of factions (From the Scots to the Mongols) , the massive battles (Like watching a movie... with 
 more destruction) , cutthroat diplomacy (Wooing away an enemy's top general with your own inbred 
 princess) the options and fun are endless. So far I've got a dominant rating as playing as Spain 
 and I actually felt like an ancient faction leader guiding my bloodline through the ages. Yet, 
 for all of the turn based glory, Total War's biggest attractor is its huge battles. And, boy, are 
 they huge. Hundreds of units fight and die in new ways, and with the additions of night attacks 
 (Well it was a Rome expansion... but) the chaos takes a beautiful new turn. Bottom line? If you 
 like strategy, or war, or knights princesses or the Middle Ages check out this game. Its worth 
 every cent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tntnavid
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 2, 2007 11:04 am PT
Review:  I can say this is the best game in TotalWar series game. It has same game play as every total war 
 series game with better graphic and better game play .Game happen betwen 1080-1500 and we have 
 Cruseder wars , Knights, pop and... New thing in this game is getting new soldiers with gun's and 
 cannons while we pass the time and we be in middle of game. The Wars is more realist and we have 
 better moving system for soldiers and better sound of war in the wars.....
  
  at the end i suggest you to buy this game and play it if you want to be a great King or you love 
 Knights and Castles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimrhurst
Rating: 5.2
Date: Feb 1, 2007 7:19 pm PT
Review:  I know a lot of people seem to really love this game, including the professional reviewers, but 
 I just couldn't get into it. Let me first say that I am a long-time enemy of the RTS genre. I think 
 the entire concept of real-time strategy is an oxymoron. I'm a die-hard turn-based strategy fan 
 myself so perhaps this dog is just too old to learn new tricks.
  
  I decided to give this game a shot because the world map is turn-based and I've often enjoyed a 
 good medieval castle siege ever since Castles II: Siege&amp; Conquest. But I found none of the strategic 
 depth lauded by my fellow gamers. In the grand RTS model this is again just a scramble to pile 
 up resources and armies to swamp the other guy. The agents are underdeveloped to the point of rendering 
 them irrelevant. Merchants produce so little wealth as to barely justify the effort to create them 
 and the computer merchants just pick them off before they can earn their keep. It took attempt 
 after mindless attempt at assassinating minor captains to build up even one assassin to the point 
 where he could pick off a lucrative merchant or a dangerous inquisitor. Mostly I could just get 
 them about halfway up the improvement scale before their luck would run out and they would die 
 trying to kill their latest undefended, unnamed character. The diplomacy system is laughable too, 
 with alliances holding little meaning and the AI demanding ridiculous tribute even when utterly 
 defeated. Even if you could get them to agree to anything your options in negotiations are woefully 
 limited.
  
  There are no alternate victory conditions, even between different factions. Just a flat own this 
 many territories concept of winning. Oh, and the Pope is a royal pain in the rear, did I mention 
 that part? Compared to something like Civilization this game's turn-based strategy strikes at least 
 this author as infantile.
  
  So perhaps this is really meant to be all about the battles. After all, that is what is highlighted 
 in much of what is written about the game as well as in the demo, etc. I must admit that the little 
 guys whacking each other sure do look fancy! The graphics are impressive for a battlefield game 
 like this. The sound is pleasant too, while I'm on the subject of the sensory aspects. The marching 
 music and the voice acting are fitting and appreciated. The medieval tones very appropriate. Still, 
 it is for me in the gameplay where it falls apart. Most battles I fought were battles to capture 
 a city or castle. At least in the 3 campaigns I tried I saw very very few pitched battles on open 
 terrain. I could not make any valid use of cavalry in a siege offensively as they could not be 
 wielded inside a city's walls. This actually seemed fairly logical to me up to a point, as one 
 might expect cavalry to be most devastating when they have room to maneuver. Still, armored knights 
 seemed to have no advantage whatsoever vs infantry once engaged. Missile troops also seemed of 
 little avail. I could march armies of infantry up to my enemy's walls and take my time getting 
 in while suffering only modest losses. I experienced the same on defense with many archers firing 
 vainly into my foes ranks only to watch them march ever on, leaving only a few sad fallen behind.
 
  
  Ultimately I gave up on ever running a battle myself as the computer would routinely win battles 
 for me with only a few dozen soldiers lost when in the same exact battle I had lost half my army 
 trying to run them myself. Although I fared much better and the turns were not so oppressively 
 long and boring with the battles auto-resolved, much of the experience is lost in the process. 
 Being left only with the turn-based map you have only half a game and the holes in that turn-based 
 portion seem only the more gaping for it. Some may say that I am simply terrible at the game and 
 bitter about it, but I've been a gamer for two decades now and I've logged around 35 hours in this 
 game. If I can't figure it out in all that time, then it must just not be for me.
  
  Those who love the RTS genre can have this game; I think they will love it. As for me, I can't 
 say I'll be fiending for the next TW offering. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: d1zzy3232
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 1, 2007 3:51 pm PT
Review:  This game has such replay value, not to mention that each faction has it's own set of bonuses and 
 hardships. Becoming a naval based empire or a land-based is a huge decision that impacts the history 
 of your empire. I find that pleasing other nations and creating alliances still has a bit of resistance, 
 unless you're willing to pay of course. The entrance of the Huns adds a bit of fun even late in 
 the game, then of course theres the central America portion. This game has beautiful graphics and 
 units, I would recommend it to anyone with a passion for medieval-era warfare or even just a casual 
 gamer. I'll probably be playing this game until the next Total War game comes out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: olobolo1000
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 1, 2007 2:32 pm PT
Review:  Medieval 2: Total War lives up to the legacy that was Rome: Total War. Like in the previous versions 
 Medieval 2 divide gameplay in a strategic 2D world and, when battles commence, in 3D. Massive armies 
 featuring 1000's of infantry soldiers, cavalry, trebuchets, cannons, arquebusiers, pikemen, horsearchers 
 and... elephants (yup, they're still here) clash together in nailbiting excitement. If you ever 
 played Rome: Total War you'll know what I'm talking about. In any case, let me begin by describing 
 the gameplay of the 2D strategic world. The 2D view gives an immediate view of Europe; from Scotland 
 to the Russian steppes, from Norway to Egypt. The map, like in Rome, is divided in regions, with 
 each big city (or castle) representing one region. London, for example, is located in London region. 
 Each city or castle can produce buildings and units. While buildings mostly takes several turns 
 to complete units always takes one turn; in Rome high level units could take 2 turns as where the 
 case for example Pretorian Cavalry. Buildings is anything from roads to military buldings like 
 barracks, stables and archery range. Marketplaces and ports are, again like in Rome, key to winning 
 the game. Money rules the world, but profit moves it. And you won't be squirting out units for 
 long if you don't have profit. The winning strategy is actually quite simple. Begin building ports 
 as quickly as possible, next build roads, then Grain Exchanges (i. e. Marketplaces) and, when needed, 
 buildings that maintain law, happiness and good order like Inns and City Watch. Be sure to produce 
 naval fleets to protect your ports so that their large income may be preserved. This way you'll 
 get an economic upper hand. Rome had a quote during the loading screen saying The sinews of war 
 are infinite money . The closer you get to infinite money the more units you can field and the 
 more victories you'll have and the more cities you will conquer. Oh, by the way when you conquer 
 a city be sure to sack it, since you will get a substantial influx og gold from this. Huge cities 
 will often yield 30-40.000 florins. This ransacking money is best applied to building more trade 
 buildings (insted of new units) thus financing your financial growth by sacking cities. Another 
 benefit of sacking cities is that some of the population will we slaughtered, less people = less 
 disorder. Also a 5-10% order bonus of fear applies to the happiness level of the city several turns 
 after you sacked it. Thus preventing the peasants from overthrowing your righteous rule.
  Every time your city reaches a certain population it can be upgraded to a larger city, the advantage 
 of doing so being less disorder and maintaining population growth. Food buildings like Land Clearance 
 and Irrigation should be postponed since a very fast growing population eventually will cause problems 
 with happiness levels because you simply doesn't have time enough to build buildings that maintain 
 good order, not to speak of lack of time to build trade buildings. So those of you who have played 
 Sid Meiers Civilization, where optimizing food production where a key strategy, will have to refrain 
 from that, unless you particularly fancy riots and revolts that is.
  Having brought your economy into a healthy growth you can now focus on seriously fighting your 
 dreaded neighboughs. If you a speculating about when might be the best time to declare war, don't 
 bother. The computer will definately take care of that. Neighbough factions will declare war on 
 you quite early, before you feel you are ready for war. And when first at war you won't be able 
 to negotiate ceasefires. That is, you have the opportunity to propose ceasefires to your enemies 
 but they will simply reject them. Every time, no exception. Unless you choose to offer up 3 of 
 you total 6 regions as compensation or an equivalent amount of money, which could amount to as 
 much as 80.000 florins or more. Money you'll never amass until late in the game. Even when you 
 have brought your enemy to their knees, conquered all their cities but one, they will stubbornly 
 reject unless you offer up the aforementioned riddiculously high compensations like several settlements 
 or outragious amounts of money. A demand a faction seriously pressed up against the wall is in 
 no position to demand. The option to offer the enemy to become a vassal is of no use because the 
 enemy will plain out reject it, choosing extermination before surrender, which is on the other 
 hand a quite chivalrous behaviour to choose. Like when King William of the Scots screams FREEDOOOOOM!!!!! 
 and then gets crushed by the charge of my mighty iron clad knights muahahaha :-D. Well he actually 
 didn't scream that in the game but I certainly did crush him like a worm beneath my heel. Ahem, 
 back to the strategic portion of the review. Another part of the strategy is religion. A new aspect 
 of the Total War series where the Pope decides who is good and who is evil. If you play as one 
 of the european factions your lands and people will be catholic and the supreme leader of the catholics 
 is, apart from God himself, his holiness the Pope. Your standing with the Papal Faction (yes the 
 Pope has regions, cities and units like yourself) is of paramount importance. If your standing 
 drops to low or if you refrain from following Papal orders you may be excommunicated from the catholic 
 game meaning all the other factions won't see you as being catholic thus any attack on you won't 
 be considered an attack on catholic brothers but a righteous and glories war against an infidel 
 and unbeliever. the Pope may call for all catholic nations to partake in crusades againts regions 
 owned by non-catholic factions. When a crusade is called any army containing a general and a minimum 
 of 8 units total may join the crusade as a crusading army. All upkeep of units in such an army 
 will be 0 and the general may hire special, very strong, crusader mercenary units. The crusading 
 army must each turn make satisfactory progress towards the target region of the crusade, if the 
 advance towards the target is to slow units within the crusading army may leave, meaning that unit 
 will be lost. Fortunately a crusading army has double movement points. Beeing excommunicated is 
 thus something you DO NOT want to happen; avoid it at all costs. IF it should happen to you, you 
 can choose to defend the region in question, which will be all but almost impossible, because enemy 
 forces will be very strong and numerous. You might consider bribing the pope with florins to get 
 in better standing and simply choose to hand over the region to the pope at once or let the other 
 factions conquer it without using a lot of florins defending it. Florins that you should have used 
 maintaing the build up of your cities and expanding the empire. Also, you will suddenly be in war 
 with all other catholic factions and as described earlier, making ceasefires is definately not 
 a walk in the park.
  SO, how does one actually maintain a good standing with the Papacy? Well, the good old tactic of 
 jingling with golden coin is something that the Pope always welcomes, so this is certainly an option 
 if standing drops too low. Absolution within the catholic church is very possible, but at a price; 
 something that matches the history of the catholic church quite accurate. It was actually one of 
 the main reasons for Martin Luther to protest against the church. Another way to please the Pope 
 is to partake in the crusades, doing so won't cost you anything you will have lots of fun fighting 
 battles, your units will pay no upkeep, the Pope will be happy and you might expand your empire 
 with another region, allthough it may be situated a very long way from your empire and so will 
 be diffivult to defend later on, not only because it is a long way from home, but also because 
 the Muslims will possibly be making their own Jihads against that same city, if the target city 
 was a Muslim city. An important part of the religious game is to have priest, and lots of them. 
 The most pious of your priests may be selected by the Pope himself to become a cardinal in the 
 College of Cardinals. There may be a maximum of 13 cardinals and when the Pope dies and he will, 
 he gets older too you know, the cardinals will convene and select a new Pope from the 3 most pious, 
 the preferati, of the 13 cardinals. You select which which preferati your cardinals should vote 
 for. Voting for the cardinal that wins and become Pope increases your standing with him tremendously 
 and he will like you more for it as long as he live. Voting on a preferati from your own faction 
 and he wins, will ensure his holiness see you as his true friend. On the other hand, should you 
 fail to support the preferati that becomes Pope he will se you as unfriendly and hard to please 
 as long as he live.
  Of course all this religion, excommunication and crusading business opens up great opportunities 
 for your faction. Provided your standing with the Pope is high enough you may propose him to call 
 a crusade against one the holy cities. If one of your neighbouring european factions have been 
 excommunicated it is the perfect opportunity to ask the Pope to call a crusade against one of the 
 excommunicated cities; you are almost sure to crush that faction with your mighty crusading armies.
 
  Now lets move on to the different characters like spies, priest, assasins and merchants. Spies 
 are used to spy on the enemy and can be sent in advance of your armies to see what challenges may 
 lie ahead, they may be placed in enemy cities to incite riots there and open city gates when besieging 
 the city. Assasins may kill generals, governors or other characters, a governor may have traits 
 that benefit the maintance of good order, thus killing him may increase disorder. Assasins may 
 also sabotage most bulding types, destroying buldings that maintain good order may casue disorder. 
 Priest may convert a non catholic portion of the populace to catholic and if the enemy faction 
 is muslim this will also, again, cause disorder. When used in conjunction, spies, assasins and 
 priest will be very likely to incite a revolt in an enemy city thus making it full of mostly weak 
 rebel forces and expelling the other factions forces to outside the city. Merchants can be placed 
 on ressources to generate florins. The rarer the ressources the more florin, the better the skill 
 of the merchant the more florins. Merchants doesn't cost upkeep. In the beginning of the game they 
 may seem useless because everytime you merchant occupies a ressource some extremely skilled enemy 
 merchant will moving and acquire assets putting your merchant out of business. Your mechant dissappears 
 and income from ressource is lost. But later on in the game when you are more mighty and have more 
 regions they will prove very useful. Late in the game, you will see why they become so useful generating 
 income, but I will let you figure that out for yourself.
  
  One thing haven't even mentioned yet is the aspect of castles. Cities may be convertet to castles 
 and vice versa, but only once. The game will warn you about that the process will be irreversible, 
 so you can choose to cancel.
  Castles won't produce any trade buildings apart from roads and ports, and won't be able to support 
 larger populations. This means income from castles will be quite low. Castles produce from the very 
 start mailed knights. A powerful cavalry unit ecuipped with lances and sword and clad in iron armour. Castles 
 also produce strong swordsmen infantry and powerful archers to rain death upon your enemies. All 
 in all castles produce very strong old age units. Cities won't produce such units. But later on 
 in the game gunpowder will be invented and only cities will be able to produce arquebusiers, infantry 
 armed with guns! An arquebus is a sort of rifle that by igniting gunpowder shoots a round steel 
 bullet out of a barrel with great speed enabling it to easily penetrate the armour of old age units 
 like knights and slowmoving heavy infantry like swordsmen. This doesnt mean that era of knights 
 is ended however. Knights are still very fast and very powerful both in attack and in defense because 
 of their armour. And onse they close for the charge gunpowder units don't stand a chance. As I 
 said before that your cities won't be able to produce knights, but there is an exception: Hospitaller 
 and Templar knights. They may choose to offer you to build their guild building in your cities 
 and thus enabling you to build these powerful knights. But it requires you to first partake in 
 some crusades before they wish to do this though.
  
  Now to the 3D battles of Medieval2: Total War.
  Knights excel in the simpel tactic of charging 
 into the enemy crushing all that stand agains them. Their dreaded counterpart is the spearmen or 
 even worse the pikemen. A frontal charge into unit of pikemen in spearwall formation will cause 
 sudden, and certain, death amongst your knights. Fortunately pikemen are slow and can be easily 
 flanked by your horseridden knights and attacked from either the two flanks or from the rear.
 
  Talking about knights these will be one of the most important units on the battlefield, perhaps 
 a little too powerful. This is due to the fact that the probability for a victory will be greatly 
 enhanced if you have knights to quickly encircle the enemy attacking them from the flanks and the 
 rear. They are also useful for quickly dealing with the enemy general, the latter part having an 
 unfortunate tendency to refrain from trying to escape pursuit. Only when most of his army are destroyed 
 will he try to escape, in which case it wil probably be too late because you should have killed 
 him by now. Cavalry charges are a problem though. Sometimes when clicking an enemy your cavalry 
 will sometimes NOT charge but simply march normally right into the enemy. This may happen on purpose 
 if they stand to close to the enemy; cavalry like to charge towards the enemy a while before clashing 
 together. This makes sence, but when the distance is high enough it makes no sence to refrain to 
 charging. Other times they will charge against the enemy but if the enemy tries to run withdraw 
 backwards the cavalry will often too quickly shift to Pursuit mode thus ending the charge before 
 charge meaning the impact won't very hard.
  But to be honest this doesn't bother me too much,
  Another bug is a very irritating bother me 
 much though. When sallying forth to attack besiegers of a huge city with extra cannon towers you 
 wil ALWAYS win. This is due to the fact that the enemy wil initially move just in range of your 
 towers cannons. Even though their army are being blasted to smitherines by cannonballs they won't 
 move out of range to safety but simply wait until more than 50% of their army are dead and thereafter 
 withdraw resulsting in your faction to succesfully winning the battle without a single loss. This 
 is obviously a major bug, I have a hard time understanding how playtesters could have overseen 
 it. It happens everytime you sally forth from a huge city under siege. Thus a player controlled 
 huge city cannot be lost, unless you choose to move your army outside the city walls to attack.
 
  This is the reason to why I have only given a score of 7 in reviewer's Tilt . Difficult levels 
 are too easy though, since I have played Rome before I chose Very Hard difficult level and found 
 that level almost hard enough but not quite.
  Alt in all Medieval 2: Total War is a fantastic game. I really have a hard time stop playing it. 
 Replayability is very high since you can choose to play the campaign with another faction, opening 
 up other specialised units and special buildings, and also providing different starting regions.
 
  I recommend this game to everyone with a love for strategy, epic medieval battles and the medieval 
 age in general. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moosemoney
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 29, 2007 8:18 pm PT
Review:  I know that this game is completely different from any of the command and conquer games, but it 
 is still the greatest RTS game ever. I normally hate turn-based RTS games, but this is just fun! 
 I love the whole idea of trying to conquer the world. There are 21 factions (more than i've seen 
 in any other game) and over 200 different unit types. There are so many aspects of the game it 
 is hard to remember to do everything on each turn. With so many ways to win, it keeps you playing 
 for hours on end. Unfortunatly, the real time battles lag massively on my computer, but they are 
 still spectacular, with literally thousands of soldiers on the screen at a time, each rendered 
 seperately. Rather than a hundred clones all fighting the exact same way. I would highly recommend 
 this game to anyone who likes RTS games, and has a really good computer so they can get the most 
 out of it. It is FABULOUS!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stev69
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 5, 2007 11:39 am PT
Review:  Another worthy addition to the total war series. It does have its flaws, but along with a patch 
 and perhaps a bit of creative modding from yourself (makes it a more personalised experience) could 
 be perhaps one of the greatest strategic wargames to date. I think the fact that it can be quite 
 easily modded in many ways, gives it a definate advantage over other recent RTS tiltes, as its 
 hard for games to appeal to all gamers or even genre specific gamers these days. Many people have 
 there own expectations and desires, and while the options to modd are quite limited if you arent 
 a graphic designer they are there. Alot of people who play this kind of game are usually concerned 
 with two major issues, should the game be setup for balance or should it be realistic?. And thats 
 where the moddability of the game excels, if it doesnt meet your prefered criteria unit stats, 
 buildings, rebel spawn rates, traits etc can all be altered to meet your demands.
  
  So lets sart with game play, as far as this category goes there isnt a huge difference between 
 this game and previous games. The same familiar game mechanics are still there and are in good 
 form too. There are perhaps a number of glaring points that need to be addressed in my opinion. 
 Even with the new patch released the campaign A. I can be woefully inadequate, too often the other 
 factions seem to behave in ever increasingly bizarre manners. For example having spent the best 
 part of 20 game years thrashing Denmark into a corner, they rather graciously send me a diplomat 
 demanding I pay them 20.000 for an immediate ceasefire. That one had me scratching my head a bit, 
 why should I having just having beaten these guys into submission then give them 20,000 so that 
 they might rebuild and destroy me?. The very notion of the defeated, turning round and telling 
 me I must pay them for an end to hostilities is quite ridiculous. Rebel armies (and large ones 
 at that) spring from the ground regardless of civil unrest in the region, and sort of just mooch 
 around until you can be bothered to engage them. Which doesnt seem very realistic , I know people 
 bang on about the rebels not being very challenging if they spawn in small groups but from a realism 
 point of view most rebels (especially brigands) shouldnt have the capabilities of forming large 
 armies. And when they do they dont really do anything with them. Diplomatic relations with the 
 A. I are really more or less non exsistent and are about as fullfilling as the fashion industry 
 and pop culture. Alliances are thrown out of the window, relations can quickly deteriorate for 
 no apparent reason. And as mentioned before the A. I controlled diplomats can often rock up on your 
 doorstep with some quite unreasonable demands. Agents are as frustrating as ever to use successfully. 
 Its hard enougth to actually get them to do there job properly. But when I get only a 50 odd percent 
 chance to eliminate a 5 star priest with a 10+ star assassin, then i start to think that the game 
 isnt operating on the level. But with a bit of modding some of these gripes can be altered. so 
 I give it a seven
  
  The graphics have been updated and look very good, with some great animations. Sieges look realistic 
 walls and buildings crumble and fall. Combat in melee is exciting to watch although not always 
 in sync. Balistic units can be quite odd to watch, there seems to be some debate on wether or not 
 the actual animations are results related or perform the way you see them. I. e an arrow hits a 
 guy and he dies in my experience Ive seen guys who havent been hit drop, so im more inclined to 
 think that the animations are more of a behind the scenes calculation. But thats a minor gripe 
 for me. so itll get a nine from me.
  
  Sound im not one for playing games with music on, and im not overly concerned of sound quality 
 as long as it s not annoying then im easy going. But its of a good quality and more than adequate 
 for the job, so ill give it a six.
  
  Value worth 30 odd quid of anybodys money and no mistake. Has great replay value. So that'll be 
 a nine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_Tigger
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 15, 2007 7:49 pm PT
Review:  Since Shogun: Total War in 2000, Creative Assembly has proven that they are the standard by which 
 the hybrid strategy game is set. CA puts more game play and history in both the turn-based campaign 
 map and the real-time combat sessions in their Total War series than any other games, and the sum 
 has always been the best historical strategy experience. Medieval II: Total War (MTW2) continues 
 that standard with full effect, and much more.
  
  Building on the newer style of Rome: Total war, MTW2 maintains the successful campaign layout and 
 troop movement on the turn-based map. Once again we return to Eurasia and North Africa, but now 
 the promise of the New World looms ahead, depending on what year you start your campaign. You can 
 still send emissaries, set forts and watchtowers, and hustle assassins and spies across the gorgeously 
 rendered map to keep enemy intelligence in check. The assassins seem a little more successful than 
 in previous games, but I could just be lucky. Ships are available to transport your troops but, 
 still, there is no ocean combat, a minor disappointment at best. The landscape is subtly changed 
 as you convert small keeps to towering castles, or a struggling village into a bustling medieval 
 metropolis. As in past games, the key to the Total War franchise success is variety and fluidity. 
 The economy and politics of the campaign map appear to be taken more seriously in MTW2. Previously, 
 the only way gold made a difference other than maintaining your kingdom was if you hoarded enough 
 through conquest or farming and trade, then bought out the enemy with large amounts. A new campaign 
 aspect is the merchant, whom you send to far away lands to stand on a resource marker and funnel 
 gold back to you. The problem with merchants is, much like spies and assassins, they are hard to 
 build up in experience, and are easy prey for opposing pieces who can either buy him out or kill 
 him. Considering the cost of developing a merchant, he is only useful to players who want to completely 
 expound on the game economics. When they do work, however, you can develop a steady stream of cash 
 to supplement maintenance costs while you focus on greater purchases, like your enemys entire 
 army that just crossed into your land. This leads to success with the realistic demands for tribute 
 and bribery carries more weight in MTW2. Add to that threats and demands by high-ranked emissaries, 
 or some charming by one of your princesses that now do more than just breed, and it becomes possible 
 to win the game through blackmail and money management. Low on cash? Convert a castle that is no 
 longer on the front lines to a town and start developing a mercantile base. Russians getting too 
 close to your village? Convert it to a fortress to stave off the attack. Its costly and it takes 
 several turns, but you are allowed to evolve to better accommodate the rest of the campaign map.
 
  
  What faction you play decides what units are available, the architecture and appearance of your 
 lands, and even some of the political and economic moves you can make. Muslim factions are not 
 bound by the Churchs demands, but they start the game with considerably more enemies. Some factions 
 produce greater horsemen while others produce near impenetrable spearmen, and some nations, like 
 England, enjoy a comfortable corner of the map from which to base their attacks. Finish playing 
 as one faction, start up as another, and its an entirely new game.
  
  In the first MTW, the Catholic Church was added as a faction to keep the politics moving, but there 
 were complaints it was an empty detail. The Roman Senate in RTW took the Church's place and tried 
 to expound on in-game politics by making greater demands on the player, but only became more annoying. 
 The Church is back, and can be rather pesky with its demands but its actions seem to have more 
 rhyme and reason than in past games. Playing the French, I was high on the Popes approval list 
 after being the first to pull off a crusade in Antioch. The Germans, being spoiled losers, were 
 massing at my borders and had already unsuccessfully tried to move troops to my valleys. As I closed 
 in on Staufen and lay siege to it while another German army slipped past me and moved to Metz, 
 a letter from the Pope arrived demanding a truce. We were both threatened with excommunication, 
 which would create a free-for-all from other Christian nations, and the German and French armies 
 went back to their corners to sulk. The church almost adds a third act to the epic campaign, causing 
 you to focus on the pagan territories as you build your kingdom, and only attacking a Christian 
 once youre sure you can take on the entire world.
  
  When fights do break out, the sight is almost sublime. In MTW four years ago, the troops were still 
 cardboard cutouts that the camera rotated around. Players didnt care that the soldiers were 
 blocky with minimal animations as they watched the literal thousands of armored soldiers execute 
 unbelieveable charges. Shortly after M: TW came out, pictures of Rome: Total War were leaked from 
 a British magazine, and fans salivated. Something was lost, however, when the full 3D elephants 
 strode past the thousands of hestati and triarii that all looked exactly alike. The lower detailed 
 graphics of the cardboard cutouts allowed us to imagine different troops in one rank because we 
 couldnt make them out entirely to realistic detail, but the meticulously drawn soldiers of R: TW 
 were visible right down to the expression on their cloned faces. The game play was rich, the graphics 
 were better, but the fantasy had been cracked because everyone looked the same. M: TW2 addressed 
 that directly, and now every troop appears to be hand painted, and every screenshot promises a 
 new work of art as soldiers clad in varying tunics, scratched helmets, differing shields, and general 
 hygiene (seriously, get some of those guys a razor) brings back the dream of controlling a true 
 army of individuals.
  
  The animations are smooth, with swords of two opposing troops actually clashing and one eventually 
 getting the better of his foe, then finishing him off with a spin or overhead strike. Horses charge 
 through fields of beautifully rendered flowers before plowing through ranks of screaming archers, 
 who are then sent flying. Night battles, with flaming balls from catapults and streams of burning 
 arrows, are nothing short of spectacular. The Aztecs and Mayans are magnificent with unique shock 
 troops and skirmishers in jaguar outfits or loudly colored armor complete with feathers. Every 
 soldier makes you want to reach through the screen and move your game pieces by hand.
  
  Whats most surprising is how smooth it all runs. The auto-setting for my aging GeForce 6600 with 
 2gig of RAM and Athalon 64 was way too high, and at first I was discouraged because the game ran 
 like a slide show. I dropped the resolution to 1024x768, cut the FSAA to 1x and dropped anisotropic 
 filtering to bilinear, then inched the graphics up as I progressed with battles to test higher 
 settings. The game isnt as shiny as on high-end machines, but when I raided the castle at Metz, 
 I caused a melee of easily 1500 troops to jam into the central plaza and my computer didnt so 
 much as cough.
  
  Issues that do arise are more due to AI. The AI is the typical pure genius that is expected in 
 Total War, responding quickly to changes and finding your weaknesses on the campaign map and in 
 battle long before you notice them. There are problems, however, with grouping and path finding 
 on the battle map. A group of six or more units simply will not follow orders at times, and guiding 
 a large army through tight city streets is like herding cats as your men wander off to do other 
 things. An old issue of past games has returned where the front line of a unit of soldiers will 
 engage, but the three lines just behind the action will stand and do nothing. The issue typically 
 resolves itself quickly but its very distracting to the fantasy of large battles, and unnecessary 
 bottlenecks will occur. On the campaign map, there have been complaints of allies stabbing you 
 in the back for no reason and erratic behavior by other factions, but every time an ally has turned 
 on me it was because they were losing the game and needed an easy target. True to history, a dying 
 culture will sometimes rally to take what it needs by force.
  
  Thats one of Creative Assemblys greatest accomplishments: bringing history to life. MTW2 is not 
 just immersive, it wraps Medieval Europe around you, drenches you in blood, lets you feel the sear 
 of the cannon, and the glory of victory as you take over one more territory. Crush your enemies 
 by force, play them off each other, or buy them out. With countless unit types and factions MTW2 
 lets you choose your weapons and your destiny. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SturmGeschuetZ
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 27, 2007 6:22 am PT
Review:  Medieval 2 Total War and the total war series have changed the way the normal way an RTS plays 
 by simply choosing a faction or country , and choosing military units from them and then you go 
 to war with them. 1,000's of troops line the fields from Archers , to Musketeers , Calvary , Cannons. 
 Its a fun game that needs strategy and timing to win your battles. The music makes you feel like 
 a commander over his many men. The Single player is one of the best single players out there. You 
 can start as one of 5 Nations , but if you conquer a nation that nation can now be played in single 
 player. Your objective is to control a certain number of regions in a certain amount of time. No 
 worries if you dont reach the score in time because the game lets you keep playing.
  
  In the end this game is FUN , deffinetly worth at least checking out at a friends house or something. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Peela
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 26, 2007 5:35 am PT
Review:  Total War  a series I can't live without. And this latest offering is top class. Once again the 
 mighty English set out to conquer the world. With the Rome-style strategic board and stunning graphics 
 it is a game-players dream as you immerse yourself in empire building, diplomacy, strategy and 
 cunning.
  There are only two downsides (maybe three if you count the time I don't spend with my girlfriend 
 when playing it) . The first is that, like every Total War title since Shogun, MOTW2 is incredibly 
 buggy. I conquer a city to make some quick cash, choose to loot the place and what happens  nothing. 
 I get none of the promised florins. How can I fund mighty armies like this? The same with destroying 
 buildings in a city you have no intention of keeping.
  The second is a fundamental problem with CPU-run AI. The moment you start getting on a roll (England 
 on the verge of knocking out Denmark and France in my case) , everyone else decides you are now 
 the bad guy, even if you have been allies with them fo years.
  Still, a great game  amazing fun. But please Creative Assembly, get us another patch out and sort 
 these niggling bugs out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jedo
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 20, 2007 3:40 pm PT
Review:  Unfortunately I no longer posess the time to write professional reviews with no spelling errors, 
 but I felt that this review was most nessesary for what might be a highly overrated game. So let's 
 get to the essense.
  
  Medieval 2 Total War is the fourth in series of realistic RTS games by Creative Assembly. This 
 game centers its attention on the first half of the second millenium. These are the volitile times 
 of crusades, Eastern invasions, internal European power struggles and the discovery of Americas. 
 GAMEPLAY
  
  Medieval 2 offers several game types for all tastes, ranging from a lengthy and complicated campaign 
 to a quick battle with either the computer or an on-line buddy. The campaign gives the player the 
 fullest experience. Once the player chooses one of three initially availible factions (there are 
 many more that can be unlocked through playing) , he is put on a campaign map, which is a 2D/3D 
 representation of the map of Europe, the MIddle East and, later in the game, the eastern shores 
 of Americas. In this turn-based mode the gameplay is much like in the famous old-time strategy 
 game Risk. In this mode the player manages the building of his cities and castles, the recruiting 
 of military units and politics. A lot of the events on the campaign map are decided upon through 
 chance play. Depending on a certain skill, a character of a faction (an assassin for example) has 
 a certain chance of succeeding in a mission and improving his or her skill.
  
  When one of the player's armies collides with an enemy army, the player has a choice to either 
 auto-result the battle by calculating chances or the player can lead the army himself in real time 
 on one the game's many maps. The situation in the real time mode is highly influenced by the situation 
 on the campaign map, down to the way an army is facing when attacked. Strategically, Medieval 2 
 is endless in its value. So many things to consider and to do, the player will have his hands full 
 trying to optimize everything for the best results. From sieging castles to training assassins, 
 the game offers enough that the player will come back long after the main campaign is beaten and 
 still fill his evening with entertainment. Although war is almost inescapable, a peaceful way to 
 each problem is possible through politics. Unfortunately the gameplay suffers from a few general 
 flaws, most of which are AI-invloved. Other factions will attack the player for no particular reason 
 at the worst for them moments. The very next turn after declaring war, that same faction might 
 offer ceasfire accompanied by a sum of money. Enemy armies will, at times, be sent to the player 
 in tiny and easy to handle sizes, instead of one unstopable force.
  
  Moreover, Medieval 2 is not user-friendly. The in-game tutorial doesn't explain a lot of things. 
 Back in the first Medieval the effects weather and terrain had on each unit were stressed. The 
 weather in the RTS mode is quite dynamic and untill this day I'm not sure if the heavy rain affects 
 the cavalry like it did in the first part of Medieval.
  
  Medieval 2 also comes with certain glitches. Some of these can be recognized from all the previous 
 Total War games, while others come as extras to the old ones. The main field where this is visible 
 is again the AI. There are moments when a whole unit of 150 soldiers will be decimated because 
 a single soldier disobeys the order to retreat resulting in the rest of his unit to freeze during 
 their retreat (with their backs turned to the enemy, of course) . Sometimes, when persuing the enemy, 
 a cavaly unit will suddenly scatter apart like a bunch of cockroaches in the light. The reason 
 for some of these AI issues might be in the new system that separates the soldiers as individuals 
 as they engage in battle. Whatever the reason, it is not an excuse to leave the problem unfixed. 
 The patch that was released for the game fixes some of the problems but the most noticable ones 
 stayed. These problems don't occur all the time, but their occasional appearance is more than enough 
 to spoil the whole experience. GRAPHICS
  
  There's no doubt that Medieval 2 is a visual marvel. It's good looking even for a first person 
 shooter, and thus it gets extra credit for being an RTS. The system requirements, although demanding, 
 aren't diabolic for the level of graphics provided. The different layers of textures ensure in 
 the RTS mode that while the player can great a near-complete overview of the battlefield, he can 
 also zoom in to see the face and armor differences on each soldier, each of whom is randomly generated 
 from different parts. Light bloom adds an extra shine to everything and the game is also quite 
 colorful. Most detailed are the military units and structures. SOUND
  
  There seems to be a sound file for everything in Medieval 2. From explosions to arrows cutting 
 through the air, the sound helps increase the game's already epic proportions. The music, once 
 again done by Jeff van Dijk, doesn't strike to be as inspiring as it was in the previous Total 
 War games, but it's undoubtfully well suiting. The music is dynamic, reacting to the events on 
 the battlefield.
  
  CONCLUSION
  
  Medieval 2, like most other games currently on the market, has fallen victim to the visual hype. 
 The creators have given so much attention to the graphics, yet the age old issues are still not 
 fixed. Add some new annoying issues to the old ones and a deeply involved player will soon get 
 deeply annoyed with some of them. Although you could write a book on Medieval 2, it could've been 
 more than it is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JakeOfRavenclaw
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 25, 2007 4:28 pm PT
Review:  When Rome: Total War was released two years ago, it instantly became one of, if not the, best RTS 
 of all time. So Medieval II has got a lot of people excited. And of course, there's good news and 
 bad news.
  
  The good news is that if you were expecting another game like Rome, this is it. The battles are 
 just as awesome (nay -- they're even better) , the campaign map is just as deep, and the feeling of 
 running your own empire is even more real.
  
  The bad news is that if you were expecting another game like Rome, this isn't it. That is, if you 
 were expecting another revolutionary game that will change the face of the genre forever, Medieval 
 II falls a bit short. That's not to say that it's not incredible, but most of what makes it so 
 incredible was already done in Rome. If you haven't played Rome, here's a quick background: The 
 Total War series lets you build up a massive empire using turn-based strategy, while you fight 
 the individual battles in a real-time strategy format. What makes this special is the fact that 
 the armies involved are huge (10,000 soldiers can be on the screen at once!) , and that they react 
 realistically to combat -- they'll turn and flee if the tide turns against them or if their general 
 dies, while they'll happily chase fleeing enemies. This means that you can to carefully balance 
 troop types and make sure you have a core of experienced units to get you out of tight spots. Siege 
 battles are predictably epic, while small skirmishes can be just as enjoyable. Casual fans of the 
 genre should be warned, though, that they'll probably feel overwhelmed by the sheer amount of content. 
 But if you're willing to take the time to figure it out, Medieval II can be incredibly rewarding. 
 Not many updates have been made to the campaign map or faction details arenas. The family tree 
 functions as always, and it's still very cool to see the character traits of your generals develop 
 over time. A few new units have been added, though. Merchants can stand on resources and generate 
 income for you; but, unfortunately, merchants are probably the games most disappointing aspect. 
 Resources near your cities will net you a whopping 15 gold per turn or so -- hardly worth creating 
 a unit for. Resources that are farther away earn more money, but it's hardly worth traveling a 
 long way for. Princesses are a good deal more interesting -- they act like diplomats, but can also 
 marry enemy generals, earning you an additional general in the process. And priest combat heresy -- which 
 is like rebellion, but stems from religious discontent. And heretics can only be taken out by priests -- or 
 assassins. To tell the truth, this aspect of the game doesn't usually play a major role, but it's 
 a good addition none the less.
  
  Fortunately, the other aspects of religion or superbly done. The Pope will send you on missions -- but 
 sometimes they conflict with what your own nobles want, forcing you to make a choice as to whom 
 to obey. And if you push the Pope too far, you'll be excommunicated, earning the wrath of the Catholic 
 factions. Crusades are also done well, and involve you trying to maintain an army as you march 
 on the Holy Land. Inquisition is a deadly threat, and seeing inquisitors in your realm is a very 
 bad sign. Papal elections simulate the feeling of wheeling, dealing, and trying to be on the winning 
 side to perfection.
  
  The graphics are incredible. Soldiers actually fight realistically during combat, and zooming in 
 to watch troops finishing each other off with realistic moves is a lot of fun. Animations now accompany 
 actions by your agents and other major events, and they're extremely cool (particularly the assassination 
 ones, which keep you in suspense as to whether or not your attempt was successful) .
  
  In the end, Medieval II can be easily recommended to any fan of strategy games, as it provides 
 a deeper experience than almost any other game out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PyranhaMad
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jan 26, 2007 1:04 am PT
Review:  The game started on the wrong foot with all the flaws and bugs... but after the 1.1 patch it became 
 the greatest Total War . I miss only the variety of units from the first Medieval and the music&amp; general's 
 speeches from Rome , but Medieval 2 makes out in graphics and game-play. The City - Castle organization 
 is much to my taste , as I go for the economics much more than warfare. Rome (except playing the 
 Greeks maybe) was based more on warfare , weakening financially an enemy was preeetty hard , but 
 Medieval 2 gives me the chance to make them go from rich to beggars in a few moves , and then wipe 
 the floor with them.
  What i don't like about the game is the fact that they lied about the number of factions and that 
 some important ones are missing and some weak ones exist : Milan was just a minor city-state and 
 Genoa was a real power, Hungary was just a bunch of small tribes while the defenders of Europe 
 : the Wallah, Moldavia and Tepes's (Dracula later) Tansylvania who's stopped the ottomans&amp; turks 
 from invading Europe; Burgundy is also missing as an independent kingdom, Ireland as a struggling 
 primitive nation , Kiev , or even the untrustworthy Bulgarians. Everything else is close to perfect 
 !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gh0ti-2
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jan 23, 2007 7:01 am PT
Review:  I could hardly contain my excitement as the release date for Medieval 2: Total War drew near, having 
 been a massive fan of the entire Total War franchise to date. However, once I sat down to start 
 playing, the game turned out to be a massive anti-climax. The weakness of the campaign map AI became 
 noticeable almost immediately as I began to play around with the much-anticipated diplomacy options 
 and discovered that my enemies would repeatedly launch hopeless attacks against me only to settle 
 for the incredibly harsh peace terms I handed them. Inquisitors rush through my lands, butchering 
 my precious generals one after the other whilst I can only sit there and watch. The battle system 
 has been unnecessarily meddled with and although there are countless unit descriptions available, 
 there seem to be in actuality few distinct unit types. Connoisseurs may point out that all of these 
 were facets of the previous game, Rome: Total War, but we were promised more by Medieval 2 and 
 it sadly fails to deliver neither the same replayability nor enjoyability that Rome offered. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxico81
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 23, 2007 2:06 am PT
Review:  Writing an objective review is hard. Especially if you're a fan of such games like I am. But I'll 
 give it a shot.
  
  Lets start with what draws most people in playing games like this. Only one sentence is enough: 
 the desire for power. And trust me, you will feel powerfull when playing this game if...... you 
 play it honest.
  Why is that you might ask. First of all, the AI is incredibly stupid. It's so easy to be exploited. 
 Here's an example of that.
  
  POSSIBLE SPOILER.
  
  When under siege, if you're walls have cannons on them, and you sally out, the enemy just stands 
 there getting itself killed.
  
  SPOILER ENDS.
  
  Battle AI just doesn't follow common sense. This is especially the case in large-scale battles. 
 About 70% of enemy-forces just stands there doing nothing at all. If your citadel (3 ring castle) 
 is under siege, they don't advance further than the second ring. Even Timurid elephants with cannons 
 on them don't advance. Furthermore it's very hard to manage your forces properly on the battlefield. 
 First, there's the colorproblem. Enemyforces and your own are hard to distinguish. Only thing that 
 helpes are the banners they're holding. But those banners get irritating after a while. Secondly, 
 in lots of cases your forces dont do what you told them to do. Third, when attacking a single target 
 with all your forces in a large battle, your forces ball up making about 80% of them useless. These 
 things can all be corrected with a good setup of forces prior to the battle, but a single mistake 
 (clicking a wrong button f. i.) can mess everything up, making battles unrealistic in terms of tactical 
 warfare. There are numorous other problems in the battles, but there are too many to mention.
 
  
  Are the battles really so bad? That depends what you expect of them. Battles are huge and a pleasure 
 to watch, if you're PC is strong enough. Details and sound in the battles are very good and the 
 action gets to you. If you're into arcadestyle battling you won't be bothered with the problems 
 mentioned earlier.
  
  It's the turn-based part of the game which gives you the feeling of power. Planning out how to 
 conquer the known world and watching your empire grow is really cool. It's here when you can play 
 stratigical. The possibilty of building both cities and castles is a real improvement. It forces 
 you to think more in terms of ecomic centres and military frontlines. However, the AI dissapoints 
 here as well. Enemies hardly attack your weak points or make unlogical moves like attacking with 
 a force hugely outnumbered. Diplomacy needs to be fixed to. Refusing a ceasefire when your forces 
 are 10 times larger? Just to name an example.
  
  That's why I said you have to play this game honest in order to let it be a great game. You have 
 to force yourself avoiding the bugs to fully enjoy it. When playing like that the game is really 
 great and has a longlasting value. Especially since the many factions require very different ways 
 of managing your empire. Hopefully the AI-problems will be fixed in the coming update, but it shoudln't 
 have been necessary if they had tested it more. It seems CA was destinded to release it before 
 the holidayseason. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: srbbnd
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 21, 2007 6:09 pm PT
Review:  Grand battles will leave you mesmerized the first time you play this game. Graphics are amazing 
 and the movie-like battle scenes will keep you begging for more. Every soldier has random faces, 
 weapons, shields and so on to make each of the thousands of soldiers you can control seem different. 
 However, the battles are not the only plus in this game. The campaign map is beautiful and changes 
 accordingly to more farm land, roads and so on. Choices between castles and cities change game 
 play to have a empire based on war or trade. Religion is much more important in Medieval Total 
 War 2 then any of the Creative Assembly war games. Priests can be promoted to cardinals, which 
 in turn can be elected as the pope. Watch out, if you vote for the wrong cardinal the pope can 
 target your faction for crusades. Witches and heretics are on the loose so you need to use your 
 priests or assassins to take them out. Merchants also add to game able to trade exotic goods at 
 any locations. A book could be written on all the things this game can do, but alas there is not 
 time. I have been playing this game for over a week and have only been able to finish one faction. 
 I cant wait to be able to attack the Aztecs in the New World. There are still many problems that 
 this game faces. Mainly computer power is the biggest problem. I have a nice computer with dual 
 7900 gs graphic cards. Not the best, but certainly enough power to run a game smoothly. During 
 large battles I did notice some lag, that became annoying. Also the AI is still fairly uneducated 
 seeming like they only made it through the 2nd grade. Diplomatic relations are better, but at times 
 making deals with the computer that would certainly benefit them, they choose not to except. I 
 have also had a few unspecified errors and the game quits, but usual auto-save leaves me at a 
 pretty good spot. Time may be a problem for a few people, but thats a value of a good game. Many 
 hours of your day will pass with you wondering what happened.
  I could go more in depth, but why read when you can play a amazing game like this. I highly recommend 
 this game for anyone looking for a challenge and seeing a game maximize computer technology. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: klitsapp123
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 27, 2007 4:15 pm PT
Review:  Medieval II Total War does so many things right, its hard to even let something wrong slip out 
 of your mouth while playing this game. It is incredibly immersive and feels as though your actually 
 comanding Medieval factions/armies.
  
  I was amazed to see a set of seperate combos for the different types/classes of warriors in this 
 game. They have created a feeling of wat with MTW 2. There is nothing of late or ever that has 
 taken a RTS or any game for that matter into this much depth and dedication as MTW 2 has. A must 
 for any fan of RTS game and for those who studied this period of time in which the game takes place. 
 A true succesor to all Total War games.
  
  Next  
::::::

::::::
UserName: praetorian565
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 21, 2007 3:13 am PT
Review:  Of all the total wars games I've played over the years, none matches the grandeur of Medieval 2 
 Total War. The depth of this game is so amazing it seems overwhelming, but CA has done such a great 
 job in making all the complexities into a rather simple UI. The Gameplay of this game is wonderful. 
 Every new Grand Campaign I find myself starting in is always a new adventure. Graphics-wise this 
 game is unparalled. Thousands of vibrantly detailed soldiers clashing on the battlefield is always 
 something to behold. The audio of this game is also amazing. You can hear everything! from the 
 clashing of steel to the death moans of soldiers. The only complaint I have about the game is that 
 it is a bit buggy. A pathfinding issue can take you out of the reality of the game when it starts 
 to lag as your soldiers clump around a particular area. Also when your system should support more 
 3500 units the game lags as well which also has something to do with the pathfinding system. I'm 
 rather sure that this will be fixed by the next patch (hopefully) . Overall, I highly recommend 
 this game! A! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pasirris
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 20, 2007 1:13 am PT
Review:  Medieval II, is a really amazing. The graphics are so much better than Company of Heroes, I hope 
 I don't get shot for saying that. To be honest, I didn't really like RTS games when I was young, 
 but now with all these awesome RTS games coming out I really am getting in to it. Although it may 
 look the same as Rome: Total War it really isn't, one of the major new features I love is the ability 
 to play almost any faction in Grand Campaign. What else is there better to do than try out all 
 the factions on the Grand Campaign, so far I've been spending a few hours a day managing my vast 
 empire. Pleasing the Pope and getting rid of my rivals. This is a must get for any RTS fan or anybody 
 interested but not sure!
  
  Worth every cent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Danm_999
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 19, 2007 10:07 pm PT
Review:  Like all Total War Games, Medieval 2 manages to combine deep strategic considerations at a societal 
 level with fast paced tactics at a battlefield level. Excellent polishing of series features into 
 this title. Small criticism that it tends not to evolve the formula developed by the series, and 
 that some of the elements (Mongol invasions, New World) are small and gimmicky.
  
  Looks great. The battlefield visuals are really cool given the scale they need to achieve. Changes 
 made to character models are well done, as are environments.
  
  Great soundtrack and voice acting. Adds to the immersive quality of the game. Accents for each 
 faction, although in some cases bordering on tacky, work mostly.
  
  Incredible value. A 8 hour campaign (an average length for a long game) can be repeated over 20 
 times due to the sheer number of factions available. Online play and custom battles draw this out 
 further. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sharky_hermoso
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 19, 2007 8:57 am PT
Review:  I think you all know that Medieval II: Total War it's a very good and impessive game... I think that 
 it shines at graphic and sound capitols... I like that every single unit it's different from other, 
 the management of cities... and off course the tactik of the battles... it's a very good game and 
 it doesn't rivals ... so let's get back to comp an Medieval II: Total War.... But just imagine that: a 
 holy empire... with slaves... womens.... great buildings.... many people... rules.... and finally, WARS... hordes 
 of soldiers... dogs... all are in MEDIEVAL II: TOTAL WAR... all are waiting you... i'm there... and you'll 
 be so... i'm saying you;) ... so let's get started.. go go go go go go go go go go go go go go go go 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yakaspat
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 6, 2007 8:49 pm PT
Review:  I'm admittedly a huge fan of the Total War series, and I'm responsible for several major mod projects 
 for both Rome Total War and now Medieval 2 Total War (I go by the online user names 'candelarius' 
 and 'yakaspat') . So, this review may be somewhat biased, I'll admit.
  
  However, with that said, I think I can speak from experience with the Total War series, and, strategy 
 games in general. I found Rome Total War (RTW) to be one of the most addictive and enjoyable games 
 in PC gaming history. Medieval 2 Total War (M2TW) takes all the elements that made RTW great, and 
 added to them.
  
  M2TW combines turn-based strategy with RTS style combat. You construct buildings and build armies 
 on a beautifully rendered 3d map of Europe, and then move those armies around on the map. When 
 two armies collide, the game zooms down to a 3d battlefield, complete with swaying grass, fully 
 rendered trees, villages, torch-effects, weather conditions, mud, and individually animated, detailed 
 soldiers. Armies can be comprised of thousands of soldiers, from spearmen to archers, catapaults 
 to knights in armor. The flavor and spectacle of the Middle Ages is wonderfully captured, and battles 
 are measured, tactical ordeals that really put your command skills to the test.
  
  The 1.0 build, after launch, did come with a "passive AI" bug, in which the battle, in some circumstances, 
 would stand around and not engage the human player. However, the 1.1 patch solved this problem. 
 Many reviewers complained about this, but, the developers quickly had a patch out within a month. 
 With the 1.1 patch, the AI is competitive, competent, and fun to play against. Indeed, in all respects, 
 the AI in M2TW is far more advanced that the AI from RTW and previous Total War titles. UPDATE: 
 The 1.2 patch has now been released, which resolves all the problems many fans complained about 
 in the 1.1 version of the game.
  
  The only cons to the game is that it does require a serious gaming system. So, if you want to see 
 the game in all it's glory, I strongly recommend your system exceed the recommended system specs. 
 On my P4 3 gig system, with 1.5 gigs of RAM and an ATI X1600 card, the game performs flawlessly 
 on "high" system settings.
  
  I strongly, strongly recommend this game for any serious strategy gamer. Though not as detailed 
 as some other "grande strategy" games like those by Paradox (Hearts of Iron and Europa Universalis 
 III) , M2TW compensates with something those games severely lack: Beautiful fully rendered 3d combat 
 and is shockingly fun to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AzA21
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 16, 2007 9:35 pm PT
Review:  BEST GAME EVER and I mean the  GAME EVER I recoment it 
 to anyone who loves huge battles $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $$ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $$$ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $$$$$ 
 $$$$$ $$ $$$ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $$$ $$$ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $$ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ 
 $ $ $ $$ $$ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: misha97
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jan 16, 2007 5:17 pm PT
Review:  Santa brought this game to my kid for the last Christmas, so we've been enjoying it since then. 
 My son like it better than anything else.
  
  The game is highly addictive with great new units, better choice of the nations to play for, nicer 
 cities and buildings, better weaponry, etc., etc.
  
  Several problems though are very annoying:
  - When you play a battle, it is next to impossible 
 to distinguish your units vs. your opponents. They come in the same gray/brown color. Rome had 
 this problem addressed much much better, even the graphics was not as good.
  - Even at the medium difficulty level the game makes you struggle by sending a historic European 
 plague, where only your nation gets sick, then revolting in many cities even after you build all 
 possible buildings and fill the city with the army, surround the city by priests etc. Suddenly 
 you have no money to repair anything or retrain anyone. Rome was slowing you down if you grow too 
 fast but not with so crazy pace. It feels like the gameplay was modified by a sick person enoying 
 little bad deeds.
  - Now, you can only retrain 3 units at a time, which makes you stuck for very long time before 
 you can take your army out.
  - Like in every Total war game navy battles are still bad and have no use.
  
  Despite all those 
 problems, it is probably the best game after Rome in a long time if you are into strategy games. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tobiascra
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 16, 2007 2:06 pm PT
Review:  Ok well this game is the best in its genre but me personally don't find the type of genre that 
 exciting Sorry!!!!! if u disagree but the game its self is good, very good in fact the soldiers 
 are greatly in depth for example you can have light infantry, heavy infantry etc you can also obtain 
 siege equipment for breaking down the enemies defensive. The tutorial is very detailed and well 
 explained the game as a whole is very good. The games Brilliant in that you can develop an army 
 of thousands and fight another army of the same scale, Or you can obtain an army thats smaller 
 then the opposition and use your skill to defeat your enemy, you can use the land as a extremely 
 big advantage for example you can position your archers at the top of the hill or the high sides 
 of a valley and assault the enemy and then send your light/heavy infantry in, stop the archers 
 from firing and let the infantry do the work by then the enemy should have started to retreat if 
 so, you can run down the fleeing enemy with your cavalry. However the game for some reason has 
 lost its spark the game is a little repetitive and i seem to have gradually lost interest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kc1222
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 16, 2007 2:13 pm PT
Review:  Medieval 2: Total War is a real masterpiece of the entire Total War series. It has all the great 
 old stuff and innovations what makes you to come to this game yet and yet again. I personally love 
 the medieval ages and I also love the modern Total War series (namely RTW and now M2TW) . These 
 new additions have a great impact to the gameplay and I like them indeed. What could be nicer than 
 to see pilgrims running to Jerusalem's arrow fire? Nothing.
  That is why I love this series, because of the spectacular and thrilling views of battles, good 
 strategy opportunities and of course the opportunity to craft empires in the Medieval ages.
  The perfect Christianity system is also a great feature of the game. It's very nice to have a pope 
 of your own ... Really nice ...
  Also I would like to note the great variety of Historical battles. And personally I want to draw 
 your attention to the Battle of Tannenberg. Now I know it's presented in a historically correct 
 way.
  I've also heard of historical mismatches which aren't nice, but still this game is something EVERYONE 
 should try. (Or at least every strategy game fan.)
  
  In conclusion this is one of the greatest games of all time and if you're wondering to buy it - 
 do so.
  Thanks for the reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobthomas101
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 15, 2007 8:01 am PT
Review:  Medieval II: Total war blew me away when I first played it. I had purchased Rome: Total war and 
 had been excited about that too. However, Medieval 2 improves vastly over Rome. Firstly, gone are 
 the clone units that once populated the battlefield. In their place, each unit is unique and moves 
 in a independent fashion. Secondly, and what I think is the biggest improvement, is Religion. Most 
 of the factions are Catholic at the time (1066) so you must do what the Pope commands. The Pope 
 can send you on missions, tell you to break alliances, and even call Crusades on infidels. Also, 
 each Catholic faction gets a cardinal which can be elected Pope, so you must increase his holiness 
 and also do the bidding of the Pope if you want a chance at Popedom. Thirdly, the developers have 
 tweaked the HUD (heads up display) on both the battlefield and on the campaign map which adds more 
 options and atmosphere. Medieval II: Total war is a great buy because not only is there a addictive 
 and multifaceted Grand Campaign, but the multiplayer is very fun. This game will supply you with 
 hours of conquering hordes of men and leading your faction to conquest. Great Game. Great Fun. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shosher
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 14, 2007 8:45 am PT
Review:  Its the best game in the total war saga. with a amazing gameplay and the graphic in the game little 
 the same as in rome but rome was great. there is a small thing, the troops is standing on each 
 other thats a for sure a --. when ive started to play it was it superb but when your begining to 
 fight deifrent enemies its be funny. a very good thing is when you total deafeat a enemie you can 
 play as them thats a big+. there is no big problem ithink its the stragetic game in the world. 
 when you have conqured all provinces your sail to the aztecks. they may look weak but they is a 
 great foe and very agressive.
  its actullay dont need a toturial. i think you get too much help. its begining to be irritating 
 after a while. the epic battles make it fun to play if zoom down on the soldiers you will see at 
 they fight like they did in the medieval age. then there is only 2 things to say BUY IT AND PLAY 
 IT. THANK YOU FOR READING THE END 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smackbang
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 11, 2007 10:23 am PT
Review:  without a shadow of a doubt this is the best in the medieval war series. The grand campaign mode 
 starts with a simple selection of factions e. g. England, France, Spain e. t. c. So you finish the campaign 
 after hours of gruelling battles, assasinations, spying, ambushes, sabotages and standing your 
 ground on the battlefield the game rewards you with the opportunity to try out the factions you 
 massacred in the campaign mode which brings some replay value to the already superb campaign mode.
 
  
  Then you have the custom and historical battles. Create a battle or fight a historical one. Both 
 of these modes increase the games longevity . I thoroughly loved this game and still do... from 
 time to time fight a few battles.
  
  Folks a strong recomendation for a purchase here! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xboy323
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 11, 2007 1:24 am PT
Review:  For a long time, I didn't really have much games to play till medieval 2 total war. It is highly 
 addictive cause of the gameplay, the battles, the strategies and pretty much everything. I'm glad 
 that I have this game cause it makes forging an empire so fun. I especially like the pope/cardinal 
 thing going on. I think this is the best game SEGA has every made and I'm pretty much already looking 
 forward to an expansion of this if there is any. What I love most about the game is the music and 
 the graphics. It made it look so realistic and it was as if I was actually there telling soldiers 
 what to do. What I liked least about the game was the limited factions at the start and the unlockables. 
 I mean i really want to play Mongols and Timurids cause I only played those factions before in 
 custom battles. Mybe if there is an expansion, the world map may be bigger so there are more differnt 
 factions to fight and conquer. I love the feeling when you crush an enemy city. It almost makes 
 you feel like the king but away from the battle map. I just want to say this to gamers on Game 
 spot. THIS GAME RULES !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Seigneur55
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 10, 2007 5:32 pm PT
Review:  This game has an aesthetic, courtly feel to it. It definitely takes some inspiration from its predecessor, 
 Shogun. It has almost the exactly the same controls during the battles and similar recruitment/ 
 training methods. Diplomacy, naval intercourse with other factions and stunning graphics, among 
 other things, make this game simply superb. It is quite varied, letting even the Russian or Turkish 
 leader, at one end of the map, be able to colonize South America and fight the Aztecs, or allow 
 anything from the Scots running Turkey the Moors running Europe. The few things missing from this 
 game are Campaign multiplayer and playable naval battles. These would enhance the series hugely, 
 and I look forward for them in the next Total War games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spy_hellscream
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 10, 2007 2:22 pm PT
Review:  The creators did a fantastic job when they made this game, it kept so many fun things as the first 
 game but added ALOT of really cool things, the fact that you can go into battle with an allied 
 nation to crush an enemy is brilliant, if you've played the first medieval then you must play the 
 second one. They did a complete graphic revamp to make the game look better and it feels better, 
 seeing your men trying to bumrush a cannon is not fun lol, but if your like me and you pick your 
 weakest unit to rush the cannon... follow that weak unit with some heavy calvery everything should 
 pan out just fine =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fanis_gr
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 9, 2007 6:25 pm PT
Review:  First of all it is by far the best game in series. Ok, there is not a serious improvement in gameplay 
 or so. But, I cannot understand why some people grade it lower than Rome or Medieval 1!
  
  Possitives:
  *amazing graphics-sounds
  *atmospheric real time battles-animations
  *the new 
 papacy system and the role of bishops
  *the new system of castles and cities
  *the advisor who gives useful informations all over the game
  
  Negatives:
  *very low AI 
 during battles (both sides)
  *very difficult control, especially when there are many troops to arrange
  *diplomacy is ineffectual 
 and a lot of times foolish. There is no way to have a certain ally near you, or to make unbroken 
 peace with specific nations
  *pope limitations and punishments are very hard with the catholic nations
  *the map during the 
 turn-based game is chaotic. It is very difficult to find your units on it
  
  Another disadvantage is the requirments of the game in order to play properly. Whatever PC you 
 have, it is almost impossible to play a battle with a castle. However even the low set of graphics 
 is good!
  
  PS: I didn't like neither Total War 1 neither Rome. The same happened the first time with Medieval 
 2. But then I have found it very attractive 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bchick1
Rating: 4.4
Date: Jan 9, 2007 2:19 pm PT
Review:  After having been a big fan of the Createive Assembly since the first release of Shogun: Total 
 War, I purchased everything they did, no questions asked. Well, IMO, they finally 'snookered' me 
 into buying this thing.
  Ponderous and slow, bad pathing, units running in place, terrible animations (a horse and rider 
 make 180 degree turns instantaneously!) , and it just doesn't look good.. As to the 'Campaign', 
 the pacing is ponderous and the units move as if they are slogging their way through jello. The 
 campaign was better than warm milk to put me to sleep. In the 'Battle Map', double-click to attack 
 and watch .... nothing! I've seen my kids get up to go to school faster than these units move to 
 attack. And don't tell me that this is 'realistic' because the knights are in heavy armor or some 
 such nonsense. At this point, I don't care about the 'realism', give me some decent gameplay! Attack 
 ! .... (Yawn!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saintivan
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 8, 2007 6:08 pm PT
Review:  At first this game is disappointing in that it looks nearly the same as RTW. But after playing 
 for a short time, you are pulled in and get almost as addicted. The main lure of this game is new 
 strategy; both the medieval world, different factions, and some new gameplay. There is also a bit 
 more life to the armies during battles. If you haven't bought the game by now, you could consider 
 waiting until it drops in price; it is NOT revolutionary. It is basically a very good expansion 
 pack to RTW. However, if you are fan of the series, you will enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: roxpoopsicle567
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 7, 2007 5:39 pm PT
Review:  This game is really really fun! The graphics are also good. but its not just the graphics, in this 
 game you can have up to ten thousand units battle each other!!!!! You can zoom in to view the fight. 
 This is definetly the best RTS out there. This is pbviously better than rome so those other reviewers 
 who say rome was better are just jealous a better, newer game came out. We can play multiplayer 
 easily, of course. Also the campaign is very fun. It looks a lot like rome 'cept better. When you 
 hire an assaisin to kill someone it shows a little clip showing him kill him lol! ITs so cool. 
 Buy this game or die. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_lost_knight
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 24, 2007 3:37 pm PT
Review:  this game allows you to simply do almost everything in the medieval time. Make your own faction 
 to become an empire? be a peaceful faction? or be so aggressive your even going to take a stand 
 against the papal states ( where popes are ) . Then this is your game! don't hesitate, its worth 
 the money airight. Take your army and conquering all over with the cheat is actually fun, xD&lt; 
 , the only thing about this game is tho, its not as challenging as you want them to be, &gt;_&gt;, 
 the battle is alright, but the campaigh, the other factions are like stupid. No joke, sometimes 
 even if you have armies all over the place, and the faction is allied with you, but they ll attack 
 you anyways, which is .. um, not good. My overall opinion is, this game is better than good, its 
 definitely worth playing, conclusion? its perfect , x_x if only sega has gotten over the flaws.
 
  there are many mods which you can download from the internet to make this game better. Broken 
 Cresent which is in the making, there is also stainless steel which is a great mod. thanks for 
 reading ^_^ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: strategyking92
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 7, 2007 10:41 am PT
Review:  This will be short and sweet because i dont have all day to write a reveiw, i need to go back and 
 play.
  the total war series has always had a unique gameplay style. Unlike other strategy games, this 
 is not an RTS :) . You build armies and manage cities like a real ruler (or as close as one you'll 
 be) , form alliances conquer other discover territory, convert religions and so much more.
  The battles are played out by you, where strategy matters and resource management means nothing. 
 if you win the battle and you capture prisioners you can release randsom, or execute them. Each 
 civ has special pros, cons take the spanish for example, they have only good professional armies 
 later in the game, and have terrible military at the beggining.
  The graphics are mind boggling, if you have the right computer. each unit moves independantly and 
 and attacks differently each battle, and the seige weapons look definetly threatening.
  sound matches the tone of the middle ages perfectly and better than expected , its even kind of 
 eerie sounding.
  there are also twists in the game also, like the rise of the mongols, new world discovery, crusades, the 
 pope, the plague, and disasters like volcanoe eruptions and floods.
  This game will inspire any game developer , and will inspire people to take another took at how 
 it all historically happened afterwards. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eng_nader
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 7, 2007 5:06 am PT
Review:  Hello dears, Really this game was one of my best game it makes u to think , it makes ur brain work 
 and this is excellent coz the the game not just for fun but also to develop ur self and this is 
 technique to teach urself by fun that's my opinion.
  the evidence of my words that the game really teach u how to mange ur resources in the right way 
 and how to make a risk plane for emergency also to make crises management ; not just that but also 
 teach u how to have a long vision coz for example if u decide to be in war with another faction 
 or to be allies with another one every decision u will take it will effect on ur future in the 
 game.
  
  One of it's bad sides that if the users of the game was not ware enough it may makes him hate some 
 civilizations or hate other people from other countries and this effect negatively upon the dialog 
 among civilizations and may increase the hole between the eastern and the western especially at 
 these days with a world full of wars and violent unfortunately like nowadays.
  
  Also another bad side of the game that it contains some historical mistakes and this is horrible 
 that an excellent game with high production like that contain such mistakes.
  
  Also, there is some technical problems such that u cannot play with the elephant warrior and if 
 u try to start a battle with an army contain elephants the game will shutdown.
  
  another problem in the game that it makes a huge load on the computer even the computers with high 
 quality.
  
  Finally after all really it is very an excellent game and i am waiting the other games like this 
 game and like the first of this series (I mean Rome Total war) . also, I hope to improve the next 
 games more and more and i hope that the stuff of the next game be from many countries and from 
 different cultures to make the right and the real appearance for each culture in the next games.
 
  
  Peace be Upon all of u; 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maazy
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 5, 2007 7:14 pm PT
Review:  I like the campaign of this game, but what i really wanted was thousands of units battling each 
 other and thats what i got from this game. There were countless scenes where i thought i was watching 
 a 3D animation of Kingdom of Heaven or Braveheart. You don't even need to do the campaign to get 
 the most of this game, you can go online which is a lot of fun, there are custom battles but i 
 do which you could make the terrain and how large your army is, anyway the historical battles are 
 very accurate, the mongols when they invade is a very fun faction to fight and than you take the 
 battles from the war worn Europe and Middle-East to the Americas which I think is already over 
 the line for real-time strategy games. I can only imagine what this game would be like if the characters 
 died with the realistic rag-doll effects. Anyway this is a must get game for people both who have 
 played totalwar before and who are new to the series like me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Davito
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jan 5, 2007 6:07 pm PT
Review:  First off, my System Specs: 3000+ Athlon 64 (run with Xp pro, so its actually 32) , GeForce 6800GT 
 256 PCI 16X, 1gig DDR2, 60gig HD (yes, only 60) . The games currently patched to 1.01 After playing 
 Rome for well over a year, I was somewhat concerned about getting this game, being uncertain of 
 how it has changed. Fortunatly, for all who may wonder. Most of the irritating aspecs of Rome have 
 been redesigned in M2. Unfortunatly, theyve also been replaced by new and even more irritating 
 issues. The game itself looks very good, and runs very smoothly, much more so than the demo version- 
 which was pleasing being that Im on a lower-mid range system. In my book, graphics quality is nothing 
 if its overly taxing on a system. 10/10 on graphics. The gameplay, however, is nastily marred by 
 bugs and irritable mechanics that are amplified there of. Soldiers on the battlefield wont always 
 attack a target thats dead infront of them, while others clear through a half dozen soldiers, (sometimes 
 better than they) , in a few seconds. Artillery isnt always accurate, especially mortars, and archers, 
 for some odd reason, refuse to fire from walls, into a city, (I was very disappointed. A favorite 
 strat from Rome was to claim the walls and force the enemy back with arrows) . AI does need some 
 work. Many of the units in the game are not balanced, such as those using firearms. Being that 
 firearms ammunition doesnt arch like arrows would, only one row of men can fire at a time. This 
 is supposed to be offset by the ammunition, which is supposed to be much more powerful- it is, 
 but not enough so. On the campain map, characters refuse to go around cities when they are told 
 to move past one. Instead, they get stuck. The normal green walk way is removed and replaced by 
 red. This is especially frustrating while on crusade/jihad mode, when your own units will abondon 
 you if you dont travel toward the target fast enough. On my last game I attempted to travel through 
 three different routes in the mountains north of a greece, and all three times was stopped by a 
 unit or city in my way. As a result, I lost about 1000 high end men- roughly 6k in ingame currency. 
 There are other bugs to speak of, but they are less significant. Over all, a 6/10 for gameplay. 
 NEEDS PATCHING BADLY. My suggestion for you people, is to get a mod that may fix this if a patch 
 doesnt come soon. Sound wise, the game is fairly good. I personally think it could use more musical 
 scores, but those that are present are very satisfying. Music asside, ingame voice overs, I found, 
 somewhat disappointing. Many of the phrases spoken are shared between countries, and each one with 
 a completely different impact. A phrase spoken as an English man, comes off quite well and humorous. 
 The same spoken by, say, a German is void of emotion and somewhat difficult to understand. 8/10 
 on audio. Could use some more content, but overall, very good. Value wise, the game is full of 
 content. Much of which is new, or at least not present in Rome. The units colors have been redone, 
 and appear much more realistically then in room, where they were- for the most part- insanely bright 
 and brilliant for the time at hand. The game is also destine for modding, which is another consideration. 
 The feel of the game is also greatly improved. Firearms and artillery cause a shockwave, shaking 
 the screen; projectiles roar and rumble as the fly by; Cities and Castles play very differently, 
 making for versitility; Different armies have different strengths, which are pronounced openly. 
 Over all, 8/10 for value. Even though its scarred by bugs, that which is there is numerous and 
 with great potential. Finally, Im giving it an 8 for tilt. I think personally, the game will be 
 fixed. At what haste, I cannot say, but Medieval 2 is a force to be had, that brings other titles 
 that still follow the NPC players have infinite funds; Make a big mesh of men and hope they beat 
 the enemies big mesh style of stratengy- even if it is buggy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -_locky_-
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 4, 2007 6:01 pm PT
Review:  Like most Total War games this is a truly epic game that will take up so much of your time because 
 of its strategy and just plain fun.
  
  The gameplay of this game has improved since Rome: total War but the style, strategy and depth 
 of this game is beyond any other RTS out there. This series is unique as you will find out when 
 you play. It mixes Turn-based strategy such as Civiliztation and mixes it with a RTS style. So 
 to explain it basically it is like playing a very in depth and realistic version of Civilization 
 but focusing only on the Medieval era. And everytime your army attacks the enemy you get the option 
 to go to the real-time map and sort things out like men, - on the battlefield. You dont have to 
 because their is the option of auto resolving which you dont want to do most of the time because 
 it goes by the odds not by skill, position or tactical advantage. The real-time battles can have 
 thousands of troops and with the new graphics the men dont look all alike like a bunch of clones 
 - some might have beards or no helmets or different shields. And the environments can be beautiful 
 sunsets or storms or a blizzard. Just watching the battles can be fun as you watch the cavalry 
 charge, and catapults fire burning rocks, melee troops fight it out in a mosh of steel and blood 
 or even elephants mounted with cannons terrorising your troops. The battles include factors such 
 as morale which means if your men dont have faith they will make it out they may run away out of 
 the battle and you usually wont be able to convince them to come back.
  
  The grand campaign is my favourite bit about this game though, with not only war to deal with you 
 must take care of rebellion, religion, economy, different cultures, espionage, assinations, trade 
 and diplomacy. But of course war is a big part of it. The grand campaign spans over thousands of 
 years and consists of like 200 turnsand begins from the dark ages and continues as gunpowder is 
 invented, Mongols and Timurids invade and even lets you travel to the new world and ends around 
 the time of the Renessance. Theres a large amounts of troops to train and buildings to construct 
 from Huge Cathedrals to Pleasure Palaces. With each new faction you play as there is a different 
 gameplay and story with choices from Scotland, the Turks, Holy Roman Empire, Egyptians and Byzantines 
 and ALOT more each with unique units, buildings and some sharing religion and different game is 
 quaranteed.
  
  Graphics are great and will reqire your computer to be pretty dam up tp date with thousands of 
 men on the field at once. In game movies are also a cool edition and shows you how your asssasination 
 attempt might have gone or it might be advising you on the Mongol invasion.
  
  The sound is great with music matching the area you are at. And also speeches from generals and 
 cries of burning troops.
  
  In all this is a very adictive game that despite a few bugs is very enjoyable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Masterforge
Rating: 3.6
Date: Jan 4, 2007 8:06 am PT
Review:  I know most fo you out there who wrote reviews for this game are complete fanbois, and as such 
 will get severely aggrevated when someone disagrees with you, so I'm going to keep this short and 
 to the point.
  
  First of all, there's essentially two games within this game that you can't possibly rate equally 
 if you've got something more than a rock for thinking, because they are worlds apart. I'm not in 
 this review talking about the real-time battle game of M: TW2, except in the following 3 words: 
 It is great. Now, moving on to the other game within this game, the turn based strategic map. (also, 
 the score is adjusted to display what I feel for the turn-based strategic map game part. While 
 some may state this will present a unbalance in the statistic charts for this game here on gamespot, 
 it's just clear that too many have already completely over-rated this game anyway, so the scores 
 are already scewerd.)
  
  Now, what's not to like? Well, for example the fact that by the time you've completed building 
 any building in any city that gives you lesser unrest, the innate unrest of the settlement will 
 have risen to higher than the bonus of the building you just built, so you're just fight a ever-losing 
 battle against angry citizens that wants nothing more than to be angry that you've not built them 
 the latest version of a governor's palace. Well, I could understand that, who would not be unhappy 
 over the local governor NOT having the latest luxuries? Geez. Also, as far as I know, it doesn't 
 take a settlement 2-3 years (4-6 turns) to build your avarage militia building, I mean, they aren't 
 THAT large. Oh, yeah, it might be the fact that ruling lords in medieval times let the workes slack 
 alot. Yup, it wasn't like they drove them as slaves or anything, no siree, in medieval times lords 
 were very, very understanding and good to their benefactors, gladly letting them work at whatever 
 slow pace they chose... Geez. Also, it's very comforting to know that when a city has built a certain 
 wall, there is NO WAY WHATSOEVER to make the city larger and make room for more inhabitants, and 
 yet the population does continue to grow, so soon the squalor and unrest will be immense. Solution? 
 Allow them to rebel and then kill as many of the rebels and citizens as you can while you're reclaiming 
 the city. Yeeeeeeees, because there were SOO many medieval kings who promoted rebellions in his 
 cities just because he couldn't expand them... uh-huh. Another thing that was very common during 
 the medieval times were religious unrest. Even though 100% of the citizens follow your religion, 
 there were always those citizens who believed in other gods who made som unrest... or, no wait... 
 doesn't 100% mean 100%? Confusing... or not. Another problem that medieval kings had, was that 
 if you are the player , it is okay for any faction to attack you and make any actions against you, 
 break alliances on less than a whim, etc. but between eachother they act like real people should. 
 Also, because of this, when you are aggressive back, YOU (the player ) , are the bad guy and nearly 
 the whole known world will go at great lengths just to killy you... uh-huh. Also, because of this, 
 you reputation cannot, in ANY way, at all, go higher than 'Untrustworthy'. Why, you ask? Uh... 
 well... er... yeah, you are the player , that says it all!
  
  Yes, that's the short of it... or maybe we can short this review even more by just saying: This 
 game is completely retarded. Nowhere is there anything that can be traced by logic or other such 
 things that we daily base out lives on. Oh, yeah, unless you cheat. If you cheat you can actually 
 play this game and have some fun. But, as that isn't a viable part of the game, the game still 
 sucks bigtime.
  (yes, there are some typos in my text but sadly I don't care enough to edit them. I would have 
 if the game was good, but not here.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Frankydp
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 4, 2007 12:28 am PT
Review:  I have been a Total War player for years and have come to love the series but I must say i have 
 come to hate the new releases. Games in the series such as Rome that literally took 3 or 4 patches 
 to get even close to working/balanced really started me towards my grimace. It seems that when 
 a HUGE collection of modifications come out for a game it is good but when those mods come out 
 just to attempt to fix bugs and game mechanics you have a problem. The game comes across with the 
 lovable gameplay of old but released riddled with bugs and a still confusing diplomacy engine. 
 Such as if I am the most powerful faction in the world why would i pay someone else for a ceasefire 
 shouldnt they be paying me? And the huge two handed weapon bug that was not even fixed in the recent 
 patch but has fixed in one day of release with a single type mod, is disheartening. Over all a 
 good revisitation but definitely not worth the new installation price maybe worth an expansion 
 price from the little bin in the back of the store. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: manxe
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 3, 2007 11:35 am PT
Review:  Fun to play. Hard to put down. Fascinating action. Interesting strategic and tactical challenges. 
 Overall really great. A definite improvement over the Rome series.
  
  One assumes that a demo disk has the same characteristics as the game. I f the the demo plays on 
 your rig without problems, then so should the game. Not so in this case. Lag and crashes are ruining 
 my gaming pleasure.
  
  As is typical of the genre, the game takes over my PC and gives me little option to correct the 
 problem. I have to save and close the game to do anything else on my PC in the same timeframe. 
 When will game developers recognise that we are not all 14 years old, have free time for nothing 
 but gaming, and are fascinated by violence and loud noises?! Strategy is a reason d'etre unto itself. 
 And historical simulations that are accurate are an enjoyment to a scholar as well as a punk. There 
 is a large market out there waiting for developers who can produce less brutal, more thought provoking, 
 less fantastical, more realistic games to sell to the boom generation, who have the time and inclination 
 to play, the money to spend and the PC skills to appreciate the effort.
  
  And there are not enough historical battles. For the money, I would have been better off spending 
 elsewhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trashface
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 3, 2007 2:59 am PT
Review:  I've put around 20 hours into this and I can say it's a fun, addicting game. You can go as far 
 into the micromanagement of provinces as you want and there are many diplomatic and unit related 
 actions. You can use your priests to burn witches and spread your religion. You can use assasins 
 to wreak havoc and kill. The only downside to this game are some pretty big bugs. these have supposedly 
 been fixed with a patch but I haven't played much since DLing the patch. With one bug, forces attacking 
 your castle will just stand there while you reign arrows down on them. In another bug, I had a 
 mission to cease hostilities with Scotland by the pope. Well I continued to hunt them down like 
 dogs and for some reason, the pope was very pleased with me! What a cool pope. Anyway, this is 
 a very good strategy game for those that like managing provinces and wars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drewmerritt
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 2, 2007 3:38 pm PT
Review:  There have been a lot of reviews that have compared this game to other games in the Total War series. 
 This is not one of them. I'm going to do my best to evaluate this game as an individual achievement 
 rather than a stepping stone in a franchise. I've been playing M2TW for about a month, and it's 
 almost everything that I could have hoped for. I love the medieval period, and I've been waiting 
 for a game like this to come along since I first played Defender of the Crown on my 8-bit Nintendo 
 in the early 1990s. When I saw an early description of M2TW at the beginning of 2006, I thought 
 someone had finally created the perfect RTS experience. After playing the game, I feel that they 
 came pretty close.
  
  Let me start by saying that I'm happy to see an RTS game that actually asks the player to think 
 about the implications of his or her actions rather than relying on resource build up and unit 
 production as the main element of success. For example, your military adviser will be quick to 
 tell you that a frontal cavalry charge on a group of bracing spearmen or sprinting a group of light 
 infantry up a hillside in pursuit of a squad of archers are not among the brightest of military 
 tactics. This game is filled with opportunities to show your strategic genius, and there are also 
 plenty of opportunities to test the limits of human stupidity. The reason that I've listed the 
 Learning Curve on this game at 4 or More Hours is that I'm convinced that there are a lot of people 
 out there writing reviews on this game who really haven't figured it out yet.
  
  One of the biggest complaints on this game has been the weak AI, but since the patch was released 
 in December, I haven't seen much evidence of the ridiculously stupid AI that so many people have 
 been complaining about. Sure, there have been times when I've wondered to myself, Now, why did 
 the computer decide to do that? But one of the great things about this game is that the goals and 
 priorities of the other factions remain unknown, and they may not always align with how the player 
 thinks the computer SHOULD respond.
  
  Recently, while playing through the Grand Campaign with the Holy Roman Empire, I decided that Denmark's 
 excommunication from the Catholic church provided me with an excellent opportunity to grab a few 
 new territories on the northern frontier of my growing empire. It was a green light from the Pope 
 to beat up on another Catholic faction without risking excommunication myself. So I promptly sent 
 a emissary to my English allies, who had been skirmishing with the Danes for the past 10 or 15 
 turns, and I offered to attack Denmark and grant them information on the surrounding territories. 
 I asked for nothing in return, as my main goal was to improve my relations with England. To my 
 complete surprise, the English diplomat politely declined what I thought would be a very generous 
 offer, and 3 turns later, after I had taken a Danish city, I found out why. The English had reached 
 a truce with the Danes, and they had decided to combine their forces against the growing German 
 threat to the south (Me!) . Only after repelling a combined assault on two of my northern cities 
 did I finally understand what had actually happened.
  
  Another facet of this game that keeps me glued to my screen until the wee hours of the morning 
 is the dynamic nature of the ever-expanding family tree. Actions on the battlefield, techniques 
 for managing settlements, religious activities, the entertainment venues in their home city - these 
 and many other factors add traits that will determine how your characters are regarded during their 
 lives and how they will be remembered after they are gone. If one of your governors builds a reputation 
 for excessive taxation, executing prisoners, and sleeping around, he might face a few more challenges 
 than a leader who is regarded for his chivalry and piety.
  
  Those who play the game will quickly realize how great an impact a skilled governor can have on 
 the cities of your empire. Only your generals can serve as governors, and if your conquests are 
 relatively successful, you'll find that there are never enough governors to go around. As an older 
 governor begins to approach the age of 60, I find myself worrying about the eminent political unrest 
 that is sure to take place in that city shortly after his demise and wondering how I will possibly 
 get another family member into the settlement before the populace overthrows the government and 
 enters into open rebellion. I find myself cringing at the thought of marrying a princess to a general 
 with a dubious reputation, knowing that he's likely to rebel against me and march an army of my 
 own recruits straight to my capital city. I pray that the members of the royal family will produce 
 scores of beautiful daughters and chivalrous sons who will expand the glory of the empire, and 
 I mourn the passing of those who have done great things during their lifetimes and those who die 
 nobly in battle when they had only just come of age. In fact, I wish the game would record more 
 of their deeds in some sort of family history. Unfortunately, you'll only be able to remember them 
 by how they died and any nicknames that they earned.
  
  Some complaints have surfaced about the use of merchants in the game as well. They are relatively 
 expensive to recruit at 550 florins, and it is quite difficult to realize their full potential. 
 However, if you take the time to understand their abilities, you will quickly realize just how 
 lucrative their activities can be. Merchants have the ability to sit on map locations that represent 
 various trade resources, and many of the complaints about the merchants seem to have come from 
 the low profits (5 to 50 florins per turn) that they generate by doing so. It is also possible 
 for a foreign merchant to come along and acquire your merchants' assets, which ultimately results 
 in his complete destruction. Consequently, it is VERY difficult to get a merchant to a valuable 
 resource where he can sit down and rake in enough profit to cover the cost of his own recruitment, 
 much less create a decent cash flow for your empire.
  
  However, each merchant has the opportunity to increase his financial skill as he maintains his 
 position on a trade asset. The longer he sits there uninterrupted, the higher his financial ability 
 becomes, and the more profit he generates each turn. It is also important to note that certain 
 rare resources and resources that are farther away from your capital city, produce much greater 
 profits at each level. I've seen mid-level merchants sitting on resources that generate 300 or 
 more florins each turn. Each merchant also has the ability to acquire the assets of other merchants 
 as well, and the probability for success increases along with your merchant's financial skill level. 
 If your merchant is at Level 5 and a Level 2 merchant wanders by, jump off of whatever resource 
 you happen to be trading, and put him out of business. Not only will you increase your merchants 
 skill level, but you'll generally realize an immediate profit in the thousands. There is no question 
 that merchants can bring in some big-time money, but you have to work hard to protect them until 
 they reach a high level.
  
  The real-time battles are absolutely amazing in this game. The huge variety of units available 
 to the different factions creates an unparalleled level of complexity in each battle. You will 
 face so many different types of warriors with so many different special abilities that you can 
 never fully know what to expect. The landscapes and weather effects are incredible, and both create 
 another level of strategic depth. The larger cities and castles are truly something to behold during 
 a siege. Please be aware that this game is very demanding on low-end systems. If you don't have 
 a decent video card, plenty of RAM, and a powerful CPU, don't even bother. In fact, I had a top-of-the-line 
 gaming rig built specifically so I could play this game in all of its glory, and I'm still having 
 problems. The grass, foliage, shadows, unit detail, reflections, and a few of the other high-end 
 settings make my Nvidia 8800 GTS SLI video cards work so hard that they have been overheating. 
 I'm going to have to add liquid cooling to the system just be be able to play the game at the highest 
 settings.
  
  You'll recall at the beginning of this review that I said this game was almost everything that 
 I could have hoped for. The main thing that gnaws at me when I play is the diplomacy system - not 
 because of weak AI, but because of the simple lack of options. When negotiating with another faction, 
 you will often find that they can give absolutely nothing that would be of value, other than giving 
 you a territory (which will never happen) . And you usually will not be able to offer the other 
 factions anything short of a large sum of money to win them over to your side. In my opinion, the 
 diplomats are the most invaluable characters on the campaign map. I wish there was more depth to 
 diplomacy in M2TW, but I think the rest of the game is spectacular. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: josenbaugh
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 2, 2007 7:41 am PT
Review:  When I first launched the game I was not impressed. The graphics and sound where good, however, 
 I thought the game was a 3D/Real Time Battle version of Civ 4 (which I guess is not a bad thing) 
 However, I gave it a chance and decided after 30+ hrs of gameplay that this game was much better 
 than I was giving it credit for. i think the learning curve should be a bit higher than most people 
 as it took a few times of me starting over to get a good financial/military strategy going (on 
 long campaign/normal difficulty) The tutorial simply did not set me up with enough financial vs 
 military information (and as most gamers I rarely RTFM :) ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrbje
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 7, 2007 4:19 am PT
Review:  This series has been a great line of entertainment for me, altough i must say it went a little 
 downhill with the Rome installement, graphics moved along nicely but gameplay just lacked depth, 
 a tremendously stupid AI didnt exactly add to the gameplay, i imagine it was much smarter in the 
 old versions. So how abouyt this time around? well the AI has gotten smarter, altough it still 
 performs some breathtakingly stupid actions,,,, or in other cases the breathtaking stupid lack 
 of action. On many many occations my foe would stand lined up with its troops infront of me doing 
 absolutly nothing while i desimated them with artillery.
  
  The strategical map face also add little to the game, its much the same as it was in the last medieval 
 version, this is a point where they really could have added alot more depth to the game.
  
  Another dissapointing issue is the rather bugfilled state of this game, ctd, hangups, narration 
 cutting out mid sentence and again i have to mention the stupid AI, is kinda lame when they have 
 done this so many versions now.
  
  The graphics of the game do look very good, battlefields comes alive with huge amounts of soldiers 
 acting very natural and looking very detailed, im still sorry to see that the surrounding areas 
 are still stripped of all life, and i find a little lame to always be sieging wast ghost towns 
 filled with nothing but soldiers, they could have made the cities smaller and filled them with 
 some civilian life. But all in all the game is good, it might be a little to much of the old stuff 
 new wrapping if you played the other games in the series, but if your new to it this is the best 
 game of its type,, to date.
  
  UPDATE.
  
  After spending more time with the game i thought i was going to explore the multiplayer aspects, 
 this really let me down, nothing absolutly nothing at all has been improved upon here. It was to 
 put it mild a pretty handfull so and so to get a game going in the last version, and it still is 
 a potential 2 hour of messing around with no guaranty to get any gameplay done all due to the amazingly 
 primitive mplayer functions and the amazingly unstable nature of this, really guys you could have 
 put a couple of bucks into this, with the stupid AI its really the only way to get any proper battles 
 going, sorry your going down the scale boys. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: garrydeans
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 2, 2007 2:12 am PT
Review:  The game lives up to the hipe. The graphics are great and improve on the previous series, with 
 detail and colour more defined. Overall, the gameplay is harder than in Rome Total War and its' 
 derivatives, but little has changed from the previous versions in relation to this, which makes 
 it easier to launch into, saving valuable time in reading instruction books. In addition to the 
 fantastic fight seens, the campaign game has a greater width from a financial and political perspective 
 with the addition of merchants and the increased importance of religon. Overall I am enjoying the 
 game, which for any realtime wargamer is a must. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Valeria_Vitrix
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 1, 2007 7:20 am PT
Review:  Bigger, better and even more brutal and audacious that its predecessors; Medieval 2: Total War 
 took the game charts and Total War fans by storm. With many improvements to the passed on aspects, 
 from its great fore-runner Rome: Total War, Medieval 2 has taken huge steps froward. With an improved 
 AI, diplomacy system, campaign map and real time battle fields, Medieval 2 truly has picked up 
 where Rome left off! Medieval 2: Total War had mixed reviews. Scoring a 94% with PC Gamer, 8.8 
 from Gamespot, and a somewhat under-rated 8.5 from IGN. However, despite the mixed reviews, it 
 is highly regarded by those who have played it as one of the greatest games of 2006; and rightly 
 so!
  Most striking of all, Medieval 2: Total War has brought a new sense of individuality to the Total 
 War franchise, with units on the battlefield being given a more unique look and more realistic 
 AI; with units hacking and fighting in their own styles, finishing off their foes and scouring 
 the battlefield for their next kill, getting filthier and bloodier and they go on! With crusades 
 and jihads thrown in for good measure also, Medieval 2 proves to be a strong cocktail indeed! So 
 saddle up your horse and suit out your armor and sword - and maybe utter a prayer for mercy too! 
 For Medieval 2: Total War brings a both brutal and beautiful new shine to the strategy gaming industry! 
 Total War and Creative Assembly have done it again! A well earned 9.7 from me! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aetrii
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 31, 2006 7:36 pm PT
Review:  Medieval 2: Total War is definately a good game that almost entirely fulfills its role as a medieval 
 RTS. I loved the Turn-based elements incorporated and thought it was done in a very appealing, 
 intuitive way. The battle mode is also quite compelling and conveys a sense of true authenticity.
 
  
  My only complaint, and an important one for any RTS, was weak unit AI. In my first campaign, I 
 recall moving my army (composed of over 300 units) , and having a large portion actually start moving 
 in the opposite direction. I had to click on the destination a few times to finally get them on 
 track, but taking the time to move that many units really takes away from the moment. Out of all 
 of the units that died in that campaign, probably have could be associated to me being too focused 
 trying to get the backup to move in and help.
  
  Another flaw with the weak AI is that when I sent in a group of units to attack, only the first 
 few rows attacked, while the middle and back of the army just stood there, not re-enforcing at 
 all. That, as well, was a major factor that would lead to my units' demise.
  
  Not all battles were like this; some actually felt like my units were real, live thinking warriors. 
 But in the times they weren't, it could be really frusterating.
  
  Don't get me wrong, this game is definately above your typical build the archer, attack RTS, and 
 actually requires use of thinking, especially when in the Turn based mode and your making your 
 turns. I really enjoyed how that was incorporated into the game, and it really felt like natural, 
 real-world management. The graphics were nice, too. Nothing spectacular, but granted I was running 
 with a 9800Pro, I was pleased nonetheless.
  
  Also, just to add, make sure when you play this game that all your drivers are updated. When I 
 initially tried playing the game, I got a black screen when the actual gameplay would start (but 
 you could still hear it running in the background) . An update of my drivers fixed the issue, so 
 I would recomend that all users ensure that before they startup the game.
  
  Aetrii 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AnxiousTube
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 29, 2006 1:03 pm PT
Review:  Okay so I've been playing this game for about a mounth, and man it gets better every day. The graphics 
 and 75% better than ROME: TOTAL WAR and the creators have incorperated the new bloodines to it 
 which makes it all the more greater. The sound was good not fabulous but good it. It would be better 
 if screeming was added as people died and how when cavalry charge at an enemy you cant really feel 
 a good rumble when your bass is at max. The gameplay is pretty much just like Rome but there are 
 a few tricky things to this one. The most trickiest thing about this game is probebly the castels 
 and citeis. You have to really review city management to tell if it would be a good trading city 
 or a fortified position on the frontier. A cool thing about the unit creation is that you can create 
 more than one unit in a turn per city. This throughs you into the heat of battle right away. The 
 value of this game is a must have if you've enjoyed the other TOTAL WAR games and it would be a 
 good idea to if you have never tried the others. All and all this game was pretty dam awesome and 
 when the next total war comes out i will be ready with money in hand. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wolfie1993
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 29, 2006 6:34 am PT
Review:  I've been glued to my computer chair for the last week since christmas playing Medieval 2. The 
 battle phase of the game is so much fun. The bloom lighting on the armor and the individually detailed 
 men in each unit really give the player a sense of immersion in the game. I use the 'general's 
 camera' view a lot of the time. It's fun to command the battle from the back of a horse. The campaign 
 map part of the game is great, as well. It takes a little while to master all the nuances of medieval 
 diplomacy and intrigue, but it's a hella lot of fun learning. Assassins are the greatest for softening 
 up an enemy before launching a full scale invasion. I'm still working on the english campaign in 
 medium mode. The difficulty seems realistic, with casualties scaling based on how good your tactics 
 are.
  I've subjugated scotland and france, and now i've moved on to the Iberian Penninsula and Spain 
 and Portugal. For England! LOL 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wargod53
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 29, 2006 4:37 am PT
Review:  Wow
  what an amazing game. I thought Rome Total War was good, but this just smashes it around the face 
 with a larged armoured glove.
  
  The graphics are lush, the gameplay epic and addictive and the overall value of the game simply 
 stunning.
  
  The campaign map is a brilliant, engrossing game in itself, with better diplomacy and some brilliant 
 features like the ability to reach America towards the end of the game.
  
  The campaign is long, and epic in scale, however you can also play a shorter version if you so 
 wish.
  
  The battlemap is just brilliant, highly tactical and the most beautiful graphics I have seen for 
 a long time.
  
  A word about the graphics though, the system requirements are pretty high, and you will need a 
 good rig to get this really running well on higher settings. However it is worth upgrading just 
 to turn up the settings, because the feeling you get from watching 8000 men clashing in open battle, 
 arrows arcing into the air, artillery roaring and cavalry dipping their lances as they charg, is 
 just unparalleled in any game. The sound is excellent as well, with a great musical score, and 
 (when you zoom right into the fighting) the screams of the dying and the clash of weapons is just 
 pure pleasure. The animations for the combat are brilliant as well, with troops charging, scanning 
 for an opponent and then actually fighting him, with blocks, parries and deadly swipes. There are 
 also finishing moves which you can see, where a knight might smashhis opponenet to the floor, and 
 then stab him on the ground.
  
  There are a few little bugss and glitches, and sometimes the AI is less than stellar, but that 
 does not detract from this wonderful game. Overall it is a brilliant game, which should not be 
 missed by ANYONE who is a fan of strategy. GET THIS GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zellgod
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 28, 2006 11:31 pm PT
Review:  First off, I must say that this game is much better than the first. In the first one I always thought 
 it was strange that you could move from one province to another in one turn, even though some provinces 
 were 6-7times bigger than others. In this the movement system is very cool and makes things more 
 realistic. The different types of units in each nation also make this a very replayable game. The 
 greatest thing about this game than the first is that there are so many factions now. The worst 
 thing about this game though is that there is only one time period. In the first medieval total 
 war there were 3 different time periods, now there is only 1. Overall though, this is a great game 
 with great graphics and endless strategy. Plus, if you get the collectors eddition you get the 
 soundtrack and an extra dvd from the history channel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Whiskeylt
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 28, 2006 1:24 pm PT
Review:  I think it's a great game but wtf with Poland??? In the game is Poland but there is no Lithuania? 
 Lithuania in 1300 -1450 was twice bigger then Poland and one of the biggest (there was time when 
 it was biggest and most powerful) country in Europe but all whats left of Lithuanian glory is some 
 Lithuanian archers. That drives me mad. Even when Poland and Lithuania combined the best cavalry 
 was not polish nobles!! It was LITHUANIAN nobles called raiteliai . I must say that battles are 
 great but your history knowledge is low. I know that now Lithuania is a small country but the game 
 is called Medieval and at those times there was only a few countries as powerful as Lithuania. 
 It was surrounded with enemies: Russia, Mongolians, Knights of Livonia and Cross, Sweden and Vikings 
 at early medieval times, but they was not defeated. Lithuanians fought many great battles like 
 Saules , and Zalgirio or Griunvaldo one that You haw put to the game Medieval (first) . All i want 
 to say that if anybody is trying to create a game with specific historical date that they should 
 KNOW THE HISTORY OF THAT TIME. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 70x7
Rating: 5.4
Date: Dec 28, 2006 12:56 am PT
Review:  The first game Medieval: Total War was a much better game, and probably the reason most of the 
 people buying this game bought it. The graphics are great, but nothing new has been added and it 
 seems like its been somehow miraciously dumbed down by the additions?
  
  I was expecting a lot going in, so I suppose it didn't take a whole lot to disappoint me, however 
 as a huge fan of the first game, I think I had a right to have such high-expectations.
  
  Lets cut to the chase, the game looks great. But if you're expecting anything absolutely amazing, 
 don't bother. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: givememoney
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 27, 2006 7:48 pm PT
Review:  Fun, classic, brilliant... There are alot of ways to describe CA's remake of the 2002's second Total 
 War installment (which disappointingly only had a 0.1 point increase from the original M: TW) . For 
 the most part, you can see that the battle engine is almost exactly the same as Rome's yet there 
 are very noticeable graphic improvements.
  
  The Gameplay, like i said being very similar to Rome's, is still very good even though it has not 
 changed that much over the years, although i would of liked to see an improvment of some sort.
 
  
  The Graphics were not dramatically overhauled, they were basically polished-up with bloom and having 
 no more clone armys . Still, the graphics engine is the best i ever seen in any RTS.
  
  The Sound, like the graphics, was polished-up a bit too. One of the noticable details was the advantage 
 of supporting Sound Blaster X-Fi.
  
  Overall, basicly being a clone of Rome, Medieval 2 does not leave a big mark in the Total War universe. 
 Yet despite the downs, it really one of the best RTSs i ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Genencide
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 25, 2006 10:13 am PT
Review:  M2: TW is a great strategy game, great battles and campaign, even with the few bugs here and there, 
 a must-buy for TW fans and RTS fans. Fierce battles with awesome finishing moves and nice animations. 
 The campaigns are long and at times very tough. Great graphics and lots of detail. The requirements 
 are a bit rough, but if you have them you can enjoy a great game. Disappointing at ltimes with 
 some AI glitches, but overall one of the best games i've played in a while. I've seen a lot of 
 complainers about this game, and it's definately underappreciated for a game thats so well designed 
 and the graphics are wonderful. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GenTom
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 24, 2006 2:03 am PT
Review:  In many ways, Rome: Total War represented the peak of Creative Assembly's well-established real-time 
 strategy series. I for one played the game until I managed to conquer the entire map in the single-player 
 campaign. In fact, I've enjoyed the game up to the point where I would start seeing little red 
 roman legionaries marching through my living room. In a nutshell, it was a fun experience and it's 
 still a game I'd wholeheartedly recommend to true RTS fans.
  
  Here we are, a couple of years later, facing yet another addition to the popular strategy series. 
 Medieval 2: Total War moves away from ancient history and Roman military supremacy and puts players 
 right in the heart of war-torn Europe. (And Rome, according to you, is in ... Minnesota? -Ed) Facing 
 political intricacies and religious turmoil of the middle ages, you must cope with innumerable 
 unforeseen events that could easily plunge your entire empire into massive revolt; unless, of course, 
 you prove your worth as a good military tactician and sharp leader with a knack for international 
 politics. Let us say you should establish a perfect balance between a charismatic war veteran and 
 an intelligent politician. It's the only way you can keep a majority of citizens satisfied.
  
  At the beginning, you can choose from an assortment of modes - Grand Campaign (the main single-player 
 campaign) , Custom Battle (setting up the battle yourself) , Quick Battle (diving into the fray as 
 swiftly as possible) and Historical Battle (as before, players can revive some of the famous battles 
 that took place throughout various periods of our history) . The game allows you to pick from five 
 different factions: The Holy Roman Empire, England, France, Spain and Venice. Don't worry, as you 
 progress, you'll be able to unlock additional factions. In case you were wondering, Medieval 2 
 includes quite a lot of different factions such as Milan, Scotland, Russia, the Moors, Turkey, 
 Denmark, Egypt, Portugal, The Papal States, Hungary, Poland, the Aztecs, Mongols and more.
  
  At first glance, Medieval 2: Total War appears to function the same way as the previous game. 
 That shouldn't discourage you from digging into its many traits, most of which come into play after 
 many hours of fighting and conquering. Rome: Total War had its own appeal with well-balanced gameplay, 
 which combines epic real-time battles and classic turn-based strategy. Medieval 2 delves deeper 
 into the complexity of ruling a huge kingdom and handling important things like economic growth, 
 city management etc.
  
  Progressing further through the main campaign, players may be able to discern several changes that 
 make this title a lot more engaging and challenging than Rome: Total War. Spanning through a rather 
 turbulent period of European history (between the years 1080 and 1530) , the game underlines the 
 significance of religion. Yep, and that's where the Pope comes in. (The Pope who lives in Rome... 
 the capitol of Minnesota. -Ed) As one of the most influential figures, the Pope and his delegates 
 strive to preserve harmony and order amongst all Christian nations. Each faction has its standing 
 in the eyes of the Holy Church and must therefore attest its devotion by carrying out certain deeds. 
 Some actions require subtle diplomacy, but others will call for necessary aggression and confrontation. 
 Mind you, disregarding Christian neighbors and declaring war on them, significantly decreases your 
 reputation with the Pope. Then again, should any neighboring Catholic nation assail your city without 
 warning you can be sure they will soon be excommunicated, losing the support of the Church and 
 all of its followers (small comfort as I lay dead in the smoldering remains of my empire -Ed) .
 
  
  Religion has brought another key ingredient to the gameplay. Priests may be assigned to deal with 
 any potential heretics that might be roaming freely across the land. They restore faith and spirituality 
 throughout the nation, wherever it is needed, and can help you get on the Pope's good side. Of 
 course, if you wish to be the Pope's enemy, others may join you if they disagree with the ways 
 of Christianity. Well, to be honest, I tried getting in the way of the Church's policy and that 
 had consequences. Pretty soon I watched as one of their untiring inquisitors moved in on my best 
 general, proclaiming him a heretic and hanging him at the gallows. Bugger! The Pope is also likely 
 to commission a crusade to test the religious devotion of all Christian factions. Before heading 
 out on a crusade, you must delegate your most loyal leaders to amass new armies and follow this 
 holy quest. At this point, it's advisable to view the statistics of a leader chosen for the task. 
 If his Piety level is low, it's the gallows again (just stay away from inquisitors and you'll be 
 fine) , or you should simply consider someone else for the mission. Of course, there are other important 
 facets to think about when any leader is concerned - loyalty to your faction, leadership abilities 
 and chivalry. Fighting a Holy War also opens the possibility of enlisting more troops such as Crusader 
 Sergeants who are extremely effective against cavalry and can be a huge boost to morale. The important 
 thing to remember is that you must keep heading towards the Holy Land, otherwise your troops may 
 break ranks and withdraw from the cause.
  
  Running your settlements also involves additional consideration. Once occupied, players may decide 
 whether they wish to govern a settlement and expand it as a town or as a castle. Towns are maintained 
 to produce food and more income, whereas castles exist to provide your kingdom with miscellaneous 
 military units.
  
  As I've stated earlier, the general happiness of your populace depends greatly on your skills as 
 a sovereign. To a certain degree, Medieval 2 focuses a bit more on micromanagement and expanding 
 the empire through economics and diplomacy, as opposed to plain old warfare. This is the part I 
 enjoyed the most because it allowed me to gain financial power in many different ways. For instance, 
 if you manage to weaken your enemies to the point where they are begging for a ceasefire agreement, 
 you'd be wise to use this to your advantage and obtain as many demands as possible: regular tributes 
 in gold, crucial map information, trade rights and so on. Obviously, you won't get very far if 
 you fail to muster enough forces to defend the kingdom. So, don't forget to set up a strong military 
 presence as well. Fantastic game although not enough new content! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: earthcreater
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 10, 2007 4:03 am PT
Review:  this is maybe because i watches the making of the game discs, and saw all the work they put into 
 it, and i saw all the detail you could have witch make me very sorry for having this crappy computer, 
 i cant just seem to give this game the justice it deserves, the lighting, the music! oo the music! 
 its excellent and they made it that way that the music changes from witch position, your army stands. 
 all parts of tha game is made a hundred times more glorious than the first game. but by all means 
 everyone go buy this and you will have the bug for many months to come. the only thing i feel is 
 missing in the game, is the viking faction of Norway and areas around sweden cause in early medieval 
 times the vikings where a bigger faction than the danish! the should make an expansion where the 
 viking is an own faction that rules over Norway and Sweden and also add iceland and greenland (the 
 already have America right? so why not) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ahardy668
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 20, 2006 5:55 pm PT
Review:  Having never been exposed to the Total War series I wasn't sure if I would like this game or not. 
 Being a huge fan of the Civilization series, the fact that the empire building portion of the game 
 is turn-based appealed to me. The one thing that is underwhelming about the Civ series is the combat 
 and the fact that you cannot control the outcome. Enter Total War and problem solved. The battles 
 are amazing and I truly love the slow plodding nature of the conflict although it is still easy 
 to get completely out of position and lose. I am still making serious blunders as I am still learning. 
 I usually save the game right before I enter a battle so I can go back and try different strategies. 
 The empire building portion is great. You can take as long as you want to move your agents and 
 armies into postion and to decide what to construct in each settlement. My only complaint about 
 the map is the fact that it is hard to make out the resources. There needs to be, and very well 
 may be, a way to highlight the resources ala Civ4 although I have yet to find one. Otherwise the 
 map looks great and has plenty of detail. I also like the way the terrain your army is on will 
 be reflected on the battle map. This means if your army is on a hill and your enemy is in a valley 
 you will have the advantage of the high ground once a battle ensues. Overall I am truly enjoying 
 this game. If you are put off by RTS games that play at breakneck speeds and you like the Civ games 
 but wish there was more to the combat, then look no further than Total War 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: girik9
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 20, 2006 3:12 am PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY: There are two parts to the game. The gameplay of the real-time battles is pretty much 
 the same from Rome Total War. The interface is very intutive, and with a quick tutorial, it's easy 
 to get started. The 3D World map has an endless array of options, so it is very in-depth. This 
 means that it takes some getting used to.
  
  GRAPHICS: Graphics are outstanding, and this is truly a next generation PC games. If you have a 
 Shader Model 3 based graphics card, you are in for a visual treat. The game scales well to older 
 hardware, and it is optimised.
  
  SOUND: The ambient battlefield sounds are excellent, and this is backed up by the excellent music 
 that plays at exactly the right time. The sound really captures the atmosphere of battle.
  
  VALUE: This game has excellent value. The campaign will keep you hooked for months, and then 
 you can play as different factions. This game is a must-buy for any RTS fan and is a brilliant 
 sequal to Rome Total War. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tieio
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 20, 2006 12:35 am PT
Review:  I have been a huge fan of this series since the Shogun days, and I love every one of these games. 
 This game is no exception, I love it too, but the question remains, what changed?
  
  There is a few good changes, including the better graphics, it is better looking than the past 
 games, and that in itself is a big plug, but we are not all sold on looks.
  
  There is very little new depth, and I am not sure I can say that the minimal new depth is worth 
 the investment in paying $50 (or so) for a title we have all played before.
  
  If you feel the need to pay more to replay your old Medieval game with slightly better looks and 
 a few new addons, by all means, this is a great game to do it on (the only one! Ha!) .
  
  Play and be satisifed, but buy at your own risk! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MafiaMizo
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 19, 2006 1:51 pm PT
Review:  It's All about War! There are a lot of factions you can chose from: England, France, Spain etc... 
 You chose one and get into the game. The Campaign is huge, and the game features too many options 
 and decisions. And a lot of areas to conquer.
  
  The Game play:
  On the normal Map, its turn based strategy meaning you move your units in turns then the AI factions' 
 gets to play. You've got a lot of units; some are unique to a certain faction while others are 
 common. You can build upgrades; there are 2 types of settlements, Towns and Castles. Towns are 
 your Money makers and Castles are the War factories. There's more to do in a Turn, you've got Spies. 
 If they are experienced enough they can show you info on rival settlements and may even open the 
 gates incase you siege that settlement. Assassins can save you a lot of trouble by eliminating 
 key units or sabotaging production. Princess which when used probably can make you and your worst 
 enemy into best friends. Diplomats do the same except they are used to abuse your rivals (or in 
 a bad scenario to buy you time) . Merchants are secondary money makers; however you can use them 
 to seize rival merchants. And of course there are Priests; basically it's another mission to get 
 your faction's priest to be the Pope, which will make life much easier. When an army clashes with 
 an enemy army, or a siege defense takes place the game Engine 'changes' into a real-time sword 
 clashing. You get to arrange your troops on the battlefield for max management and then you fight, 
 you can skip and let the AI resolve the battle, but do this when your ratio is at least 2:1.
  
  The Performance:
  The game is Heavy, and eats Ram like there's no tomorrow. The AI is very 
 lame sometimes, like it should know when it's losing and request a ceasefire, or at least agree 
 for one! The pope sometimes orders you to stop attacking a certain faction; however that faction 
 can freely attack you! This isn't cool. Hopefully these will be fixed in the upcoming Patches.
 
  
  Sound:
  The Music is Purely Medieval, Ballad and Chanting. Which melds well in Total war, The Voices are 
 well performed as well as the Morale raising speech. With different accents from other factions 
 makes for an overall fun.
  
  Value: To be honest the first 50  70 Turns would be very interesting and fun to play, however 
 once you start to expand (like 35 settlements) the game will become hard and the public order will 
 worsen. So I would recommend playing a long game once or so. There are a lot of factions to play 
 with each with its own Strengths and weaknesses. You can unlock even more factions after you finish 
 the Campaign once.
  
  Bottom line:
  Any Battle Hardened Strategy Player Will appreciates what Medieval 2 has to Offer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterMarcus
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 18, 2006 3:52 pm PT
Review:  Pros: Impressive real time battles, mechanically and graphically; tight strategy campaign; excellent 
 faction specifics ( units, objectives et all ) ; keeps the franchise as a top RTS/TBS reference.
 
  
  Middle ground: though updated, the AI mainly acts/reacts upon sheer military strength whatever 
 the rest.
  
  Cons: aged user interface, many icons poorly designed; some disturbing economic exploits at the 
 release.
  
  Creative Assembly has delivered here a shining upconversion for its medieval Total War, successfully 
 boosting an already thoughtful - albeit incomplete - recreation of that popular era. Both the single 
 player and multi extend a solid construct for a rich gameplay experience truly dedicated to any 
 veteran warmonger, we mean it - veteran warmongers. Seeing both compounds portraying a healthy 
 dose of medieval/early Renaissance warfare can be considered as the real backbone of this epic: 
 lots of common and specific units; missions, sub missions; eras; events ( like the Death Plague 
 ) ; crusades &amp; jihads; generals; buildings. All that require the player to stage the campaign/battle 
 from an angular throne - with rough edges to cope. Wether you choose to play a western catholic 
 faction, or a muslim, or an eastern faction, you may face different scenarios &amp; events rendering 
 each choice with its own advantages and difficulties: play the former, you'll have to deal with 
 plagues, Death Plague, and excommunication - whilst playing the Turks for example, you'll most 
 surely have to thrive against powerful Mongol hordes.
  
  The player must choose to play the great campaign with any of the 17 official playable factions 
 once unlocked ( upon the completion of the first victory with either England, France, Holy Roman 
 Empire, Spain, or Venice) . By the numbers, you only have 225 turns to complete a long game ( control 
 45 regions ) , from 1080 AD through 1530 AD: that's pretty tight for starters. Medieval 2 is not 
 a game for the slow expansionist at heart . You mustn't sit at your throne while awaiting to amass 
 invincible armies before striking: a luxury no player can afford this time. Following Rome's second 
 expansion, Alexander which set a uber tight deadline, CA decided to tweak the overall experience 
 throughout a much stressful deadline compared to vanilla Rome, yet we still have the opportunity 
 to continue any game thereafter. Barring that, in order to be manu military, the player must absolutely 
 tackle the economics and building mechanics - all the turn based part that is. Again, the sinews 
 of war are money ( sorry, Machiaveli.....) : here, florins. The deeds are to carefully plan how 
 - and when - to enhance the overall income as to christen new powerful armies in order to wreak 
 havoc, or else. Otherwise the empire's economy may plummet right away. The developers crafted a 
 delicate balance rarely achieved in any other strategy game.
  
  Evidently, huge battles around cities remain the meat of a graphical engine updated, now showing 
 twice the polygon count: overall, the results are impressive indeed on high end machines. More 
 details on units, walls, vegetation, smoother animations ( cavalry units are superb ) . The campaign 
 map is beautiful, though only slightly better than Rome ( mainly the water ) . We cannot say the 
 same redux's being made to fonts and user interface, which become aged. Iconographics and small 
 windows are displayed in low res regardless of the settings. One can only hope for a drastic overhaul 
 next time, i. e. the next planned Total War ( does Napoleon ring a bell? ) . Unless you're in the 
 minority who can't stand in game movies, most of the players seem to be content with those new 
 cool movies, generally enriching the experience: marriages, papal elections, spying and sabotage, 
 gunpowder advent, Mongol invasion, Timurids, Death Plague, etc...
  
  The audio part can be split in two: standard sounds &amp; conventional voice overs just above mediocre; 
 yet an exceptional music score really embellishes the dramatic portrayal ( put the CD in your car 
 if you have a sub and you may be surprised even if you're not into the classical/orchestra) .
  
  Although the game seems to fully satisfy addicts of the genre offline, as a rich single player 
 experience against a much improved AI ( still an artificial idiot for very few whiners! ) , that 
 doesn't mean the MP gameplay sucks. Far from it. But don't expect revolutionary features, nor a 
 smooth gameplay online without a high end rig. At max settings online and offline, Med 2 joins 
 Rome amongst the very few strategy games being the equal to the most demanding action fragfests: 
 they're powermungers. Accept some little lags during huge battles.
  
  Oddly enough, the inclusion of the New World in the late campaign sure makes an exotic feature 
 - still only a cosmetic one, not an obligatory voyage to embark on even for the long victory unless 
 you really want to, depending on how the European theatre was managed. Too bad also that some of 
 the Renaissance units appear too late to be really useful, again a usual drawback found in many 
 many many excellent games of the genre.
  
  Whatever the little glitches any complex PC game such as this may spur, here some income exploits, 
 or the diplomacy AI, or the uneven Merchant system, overall Medieval 2 certainly meets the expectations 
 when considering the magnificent use of Rome's updated engine. Definitely one of the best strategy 
 games of its time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: babybridges
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 18, 2006 2:32 am PT
Review:  This game is awesome!! I am Total War series fan since Rome came out so I was able to get into 
 this game very easily. Let me firstly that the graphics and sound are excellent given the limtation 
 of todays computers. Now that is out of the way let me talk about specifcally about the gameplay 
 versus RTW because that is where I am coming from. First of the all the positives. The game seemed 
 to be a refined version of Rome Total War. For example, the retraining system has been revamped, 
 which affects gameply very significantly from RTW. Thus you can no longer retrain your depleted 
 army in new conquered territory in 2 turns like in RTW, which made for very easy conquests because 
 you would just conquer, wait for a turn or 2 to retrain then move on. Medieval 2 implementation 
 of 3 retraining slots makes for careful and deliberate strategy with each battle having far more 
 consequences than in RTW. The balance in this game is also very good. Every fraction has a chance 
 to win it. It is not like in RTW where the Sassinids, or the Romans were the clear favorite to 
 romp everybody. However, this balance is achieved at the expense of uniqueness of the fractions. 
 A lot of fraction seem to play only a little bit differently.
  
  Now the cons, enemy Ai is still glitchy, despite patch, especially strategic AI, tactical Ai is 
 sufficent for the most part. For example leaving only one general unit in a key strategic fortress 
 while gathering a huge army outside the fortress for an obvious attack on your nearby city. To 
 preempt this you just bypass the huge army gathering on your border and attack the fortress. Then 
 wait for the enemy huge army to come to rescue and destroy the rescuing huge army and the one general 
 unit garrisoning the fotress in detail on the field. If they left the huge army in the fortress, 
 it would have been 3x harder to take the fortress but glitchy AI leaves unintended openings. The 
 patch has not addressed this at all.
  
  The new features in this game are for the most part, do not add much to new game play. On exception 
 is the merchant especially since the new patch was released. You an earn a large percent of your 
 income via merchants thus less aggresive players can turtle down while building huge armies.
  
  However, other new features are obviously not thought out. Princess diplomacy seems to be a 
 bad gimmick that is more trouble than it is worth. Revamped diplomacy is still deeply flawed. Reputation 
 in this game ultimately mean nothing. For example, you would be good standing catholic nation then 
 another catholic nation attacks you. You unleash a full counterattack rightfully, but in the end 
 your reputation goes down. Thus for all you new players, being a bastard is the way to go in this 
 game. The diplomacy is as flawed as RTW. Another complaint about diplomacy is that all the trouble 
 you go through make friends. They will ALWAYS backstab you at one point at least on the very hard 
 difficulty level. Thus this game is truly total war, because they give you no other options to 
 win. On the tactical side, the pathfinding of some units are horrendous. I wish there was a waypoint 
 system which would cut down on the micromanagement significantly. Calvary seem especially stupid. 
 Taking detours sometimes to run into spearman. Also, there are numerous specific tatical flaws 
 in the AI that hopefully will addressed in future updates. For example the computer acts like a 
 chicken without a head, not knowing what to do when they are surrounded by a player who use horse 
 archers. In conclusion, despite some tweaks this game is flawed despite patch, but still awesome 
 b/c it is total war, and it is a evolutionary step from RTW which was a excellent game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mduquette7878
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 16, 2006 10:14 pm PT
Review:  This game is excellent if you have a system powerful enough to play it. With all of it's eye candy 
 this game pushes the average PC to the edge. Make sure you upgrade for this one. Getting past the 
 demands this game presents it's definitely is a nice addition to it's predecessors! Graphics are 
 fantastic with much more realism in the battle scenes. Grand campaign is great reverting back to 
 the good old Rome days with your big mission and small tasks given by the Pope or the council. 
 Your always busy! If you are on the fence with this one let me give you a push to the Medieval 
 side, you won't regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: megabestia
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 16, 2006 10:55 am PT
Review:  As any wargamer or gamer that likes strategy I've played the total war series since the first demo 
 of Shogun total war until i've made all battle posibilities, played all factions looking for a 
 challenge, and all the options this great series offers.
  
  I'm making the same with Medieval 2, but before completing the challenge of conquer constantinopla 
 with Demmark, with 2 great campaigns played, all i see here are better graphics, an incredible 
 graphics, but just this.
  
  If this is the first TW game you play you'll feel like me with the next game (Napoleon total war?, 
 please!) , but if you've been playing for years you know what i'm talking about. I already say the 
 good part of TW on Shogun, creator of the concept so i'm not going to say it again, all new stuff 
 are just graphics and tech upgrades. The bad fact of this game is stil here:
  
  AI, the computer, your rival, the enemy is unable to act as in a real way. Both on the battleground.
 
  
  No, and after 4 games i'm fed up. I'll explain myself with examples, and this is a constructive 
 critic, i want that next TW game becomes the better strategy game ever, and for that all this matters 
 must be improved::
  
  -On the battle, even at maximium difficult, your rival stands in front of you if you're army is 
 on higher ground. And you can send your archers to fire over them, go to the kitchen, take a beer, 
 see tv for a while and come back when your enemy is death, because it don't try to seek your flank, 
 doesn't send cavalry to make a diversion tactic, nothing. Always act on the same way, so predictible 
 than the battle is just a mere tramit, all are similar, all easy to handle if you have experience, 
 so with a correct army is really hard to loose a battle. It's too easy and similar. When a true 
 battle comes out i enjoy it but this is hard to find against the AI.
  
  -On the map, the computer creates little armies that sieges cities or whatever, doesn't wait until 
 having a great army and attack your most important point, no, it creates anything and send it against 
 you in battles that are impossible to win, instead making a reasonable war-effort like your that 
 with time easily conquers any country.
  
  -A harder game for the IA means everybody against you even the more stupid conditions. I mean, 
 you're defeating a country that only holds 1 territory, you offer a peace and say NO. You give 
 him money, map info or anything and still say NO, NEVER. Why? A great army is next to your capital, 
 you're going to dissapear, your end is near, you should be asking me for peace, not me, and even 
 in this conditions the IA only fights against you because the game is at full difficult. No reallistic 
 conditions on diplomacy, you can have an ally attacking your city without a reason, WHY? there's 
 many why's on that question; i guess you know what i'm talking about.
  
  -AI is sometimes stupid. Really. In my last crusade i formed the army and two turns later half 
 of army disbanded because i'm not getting results on the crusade . GREAT, can i at least go out 
 of my country to try something.
  
  -I MEAN that AI is making stupid decissions against you to make the game harder, but, if the IA 
 would know how to fight and some strategy on the map the game can be really harder and you don't 
 need to get angry due to the unreal situation many times TW offers.
  
  YOU WANT TO MAKE THINGS HARDER? all you have to make is a game closer to the reallity. WHY after 
 conquering an enemy castle i can build and instruct my units here? The people of the slayered region 
 wishes to join the invasion army? do i teleport units from my capital? how can i make my own christian 
 units on a conquered islam town? ... with this is easy to conquer with the same army. Conquer a 
 city, rebuild it here, go to another and so on until you win. Where's the real warfare? What about 
 the atrittion of being away from home?
  
  Please, set different levels or options that enables the user to play from an easy battle-game 
 to a challenger and reallistic champaign. I don't know if is hard to make the IA to work as it 
 should, but this is the only one matter that separates this game from perfection. Battles are awesome, 
 don't need to improve or get better graphics!!!
  
  And for closing I'm also fed up of watching the other countries making stupid actions out of your 
 turn. I don't care the merchants, i'm not interested on the princess life, all i want to see are 
 the armies, but this is impossible because it takes too much time to move all units, you have to 
 disable the option of looking the enemy that reduces the strategy. Things from Shogun total war 
 are going better just in graphics and tech, the concept is still the same and needs an evolution 
 to the next stage. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scaryclouds
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 16, 2006 10:32 am PT
Review:  This was an excellent game. Creative Assembly added in a lot more game play features so it wouldn't 
 feel like a rehashing of MTW. The graphics and sound were both major upgrades from RTW. The only 
 real problem I had with the game is there was not enough different late period (Renaissance esque) 
 units. Most factions never got units like halberds, pikes or if they did the units didn't seem 
 quite as effective as they should of been. Another minor problem is some units where not balanced 
 correctly example feudal knights (at least on paper) are stronger than men at arms and have access 
 to several armor upgrades, while men at arms do not. Still if you are a strategy fan this game 
 is a MUST BUY! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: April_Goh
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 16, 2006 12:24 am PT
Review:  Overview
  Medieval 2: Total War is the fourth entry into the revolutionary Total War Series. The game expands 
 upon the game-mechanics of Rome: Total War, improving upon virtually every aspect of the older 
 game as well as adding several new features that add further depth to one of the deepest strategic 
 war simulators ever seen. Medieval 2 may not be as innovative as previous Total War games have 
 been, but delivers a solid gameplay experience easily accessible to both the studious History professors 
 of the world and those who cannot differentiate between a phalanx and a phoenix . Medieval is a 
 solid game, but it does fall short in several areas. Graphics and gameplay have again been prioritized 
 over historical realism and intelligent A. I.. Given the rather limited variety of real-time or 
 turn-based games, Medieval 2 does a stellar job of combining the best aspects of both genres into 
 a highly enjoyable gaming experience.
  
  Gameplay
  Much the same as in Shogun: Total War, Medieval: Total War and Rome: Total War, gameplay in Medieval 
 2 is divided into two very distinct realms. In Medieval 2, you assume control of one of seventeen 
 Medieval nation-states and attempt to dominate Europe. You control your faction on the turn-based 
 strategy map, which encompasses the whole of Western Europe, as well as much of Northern Africa. 
 Here is where you manage your cities, construct new buildings and technologies, as well as where 
 you train a variety of units -- from armies to assassins to diplomats to merchants to priests. The 
 strategy map is turn-based and resembles that of Rome: Total War but better detailed. You can zoom 
 in very close, and can even adjust the size/detail of the strategy map's mini-map, though when 
 zoomed in the resolution for the mini-map is horrible. Mountain ranges look more-or-less like clones 
 of one another, and the volcanoes are designed rather childishly in my opinion. The detail, however, 
 is amazing, as the forest trees will sway back and forth in the wind, and the the snow-covering 
 the terrain in winter truly is a spectacular sight.
  
  . The strategy-map is played virtually exactly the same as in Rome: Total War and is relatively 
 simple to utilize, but makes the overall feel of the game (while playing on the strategic map) 
 more akin to that of a fan-created modification to Rome with enhanced graphics than a genuinely 
 new game. Medieval 2 is the first game in the series to copy a gameplay engine from a preceding 
 game, but considering just how well the strategic map is played one hardly has room for complaint.
 
  
  Diplomacy and religion play a vital role to the strategic game, though again fall short of the 
 level of detail and immersion one would hope for. That being said, this is the Total War series -- diplomacy 
 is far from the focus with these games. For the most part an alliance is only used when you do 
 not want to go to war with that particular nation. It's a more reliable deterrent than a simple 
 ceasefire or neutrality, but still not quite as reliable as one would hope.
  
  The advent of princess units, merchant units, heretics and inquisitors add a nice layer of depth, 
 but can get rather annoying over time. Princess units are a special type of diplomat that can be 
 married off to other nations, or can arrange the marriage of another princess into the player's 
 faction.
  
  While priest units travel the map attempting to convert various pagan people to Christianity, heretics 
 are a rebel priest unit that travels the map inciting riots and civil unrest. Ostensibly the inquisitor 
 units (under the control of the papacy) would travel the world murdering heretics. Instead, unfortunately 
 (and rather irritatingly) they travel the map murdering various family-members. In some cases this 
 can get rather out-of-hand, as I've had upwards of 10 family members killed within a total of 15 
 turns. Luckily every time a family member is murdered by the inquisition, a replacement family 
 member is found as a candidate for adoption.
  
  Medieval 2 utilizes an affinity ranking that displays the overall quality of diplomatic relations 
 between factions. In addition to the Papal ranking (very much akin to the popularity rankings in 
 Rome) each individual faction has a ranking for every other faction, ranging from very-poor relations 
 to very-good relations. How an opposing faction views the player's faction plays the key role in 
 determining how they react to your actions.
  
  The greatest flaw in the diplomatic engine is the lack of any new treaties or stances. You cannot 
 declare war without attacking, you cannot demand that all enemy units leave your territory, nor 
 can you threaten or chastise nations that consistently send spies and assassins into your territory. 
 These omissions do nothing to detract from the gameplay experience, but they would have been a 
 welcome addition.
  
  The real-time tactical combat is where the game truly shines. It goes without saying that Total 
 War games have far more depth to real-time combat than any other series or lone game. Superior 
 tactics will almost always prevail against superior numbers. Flanking, charging, retreating... 
 if a player utilizes every tactical maneuver to its full potential victory is certain in almost 
 any condition. The same applies to the enemy. Morale is important, troop formation is important, 
 and now -- a first in Total War history -- terrain also plays a decisive role in victory. Fields of 
 mud will slow down your cavalry and knights and rain will greatly reduce visibility. A well thought 
 out cavalry charge can decimate your enemy, an ill-conceived charge will leave you horribly outclassed.
 
  
  The camera has three different modes. The Total War Camera is level with the terrain and can be 
 elevated or lowered. The General Camera centers and follows the general of your armies. The RTS 
 Camera is the closest to the cameras of previous Total War games, allowing you to zoom out and 
 up, or down and level to get a good view of the battle. Moving the mouse to either edge of the 
 screen will rotate the camera or move it, however the zone of the screen-edge that dictates horizontal 
 movement is very small and located at the lower corners which can be a bit unsettling at first.
 
  
  In addition to the standard turn-based conquer-the-world campaign, Medieval 2 also give the player 
 a wide variety of historical-battle to choose from. As in previous Total War games, these battles 
 are well-researched and well-programmed, often being fun, challenging and somewhat educational 
 simultaneously.
  
  As with all previous Total War games, Medieval 2 also offers an array of historical scenarios to 
 choose from. My particular favourite (more for reasons of nostalgia than not) is the Battle of 
 Agincourt, where the English and the French faced off in one of the most decisive battles of the 
 100 Years War. Each battle opens and closes with a nicely narrated cutscene which add quite a bit 
 to the experience. There are, however, very few historic battles to choose from. Hopefully new 
 battles will be created both by the developers and by the various talented fans.
  
  The only real gripe I have with the gameplay is that several units and weapons have been greatly 
 reduced power-wise for obvious (though rather irritating) reasons of game-balance. A volley of 
 arrows or musket-fire, for example, will only kill of a few men in a unit, when in a real battle 
 such a volley would be devastating. Also, the range of missile weapons (particularly archers) has 
 gotten ridiculous. Archers can fire across a distance nearly one quarter the size of the map, and 
 by firing arrows vertically they are somehow able to attack units that are very clearly invisible 
 to the archers -- behind a building, wall or other obstruction. This would be fine and dandy if the 
 accuracy of the volleys changed -- but it does not. Each volley of arrows is as inaccurate as the 
 next.
  
  The single greatest aspect of the gameplay lies in Medieval 2's multiplayer mode, where the play 
 can fight head-to-head against a living, breathing and (hopefully) thinking opponent. And potential 
 challenges are without limit, and the pride you achieve from crushing another opponent is unparalleled.
 
  
  Strategy/Difficulty
  Medieval 2 has multiple levels of difficulty depending on the player's preference, ranging from 
 the very easy -- challenging, but not brain-busting -- to the very hard -- which will leave the inexperience 
 and less-talented begging for mercy.
  
  The artificial intelligence -- or A. I. -- in Medieval 2 is much better than it has ever been. Other 
 nations will declare war on each other, will fight each other bitterly, and even weaker nations 
 will ally with others to destroy mutual (and more powerful) foes.
  
  It's not all good, however. The A. I. will occasionally do things that seem downright silly. Enemy 
 nations that you are at war with, even at the point of obliteration, will continually demand exorbitant 
 (and increasing) amounts of money for a ceasefire. Decimated nations with crippled armies will 
 invade the giant superpowers when they are on the verge of obliteration, completely ignoring their 
 smaller neighbors that would have been much easier (and less-suicidal) targets.
  
  The Papacy, unfortunately, is nearly as annoying and nonsensical in Medieval 2 as it was in Medieval 
 1. For example, it cannot be destroyed. Ever. If you conquer the papal states, burn the city to 
 the ground and slaughter the entire populace, but the next turn you will still get orders from 
 the pope, or be executed and have nearly every other Christian nation on the map declare war on 
 you while your own cities revolt.
  
  As per typical Total War fare, you are still able to lay siege to cities, blockade ports, establish 
 fortresses and watch towers. In Medieval 2 you also have the option of using merchant units to 
 establish new trade routes to certain rare resources. These trade routes add slightly to the total 
 revenue of your faction, but not enough to really be worthwhile.
  
  In most strategy games, a very simple mechanic is used for determining who wins a battle. Unit 
 A beats unit B, unit B beats unit C and unit C beats unit A. A&gt; B&gt; C&gt; A. In addition, a large 
 enough quantity of anything will destroy everything. In Medieval 2, however, the only real determining 
 factor in battle is the strength of will and mind of the general -- be it a simple A. I. program or 
 a human player. With virtually every conventional combat tactic available to choose from and vast, 
 vibrant tactical maps in for each battle to play out it, the sheer quantity of possible tactics 
 is nearly infinite.
  
  Medieval 2: Total War is the definitive game when it comes to strategy in any form. It's sheer 
 versatility is amazing, both when viewed in isolation and when viewed concurrently with other games. 
 The Total War games are a genre unto themselves. Medieval 2 simply reinforces the series' dominance, 
 driving the point home with a seemingly-effortless grace.
  
  The system requirements are rather steep, however, and most players will be forced to sacrifice 
 appearence for better framerate. However even on the lower-settings the game still looks beautifull.
 
  
  Graphics &amp; Presentation
  The graphics in Medieval 2 are, by far, the single most impressive aspect of the game. Gone are 
 the cloned-armies of previous games (indeed, of every real-time strategy game to date) replaced 
 with vibrant and varied armies that are composed of individuals. While the whole unit (often composed 
 of 60 to 80 men, though the number varies) has a similar color-scheme to help differentiate them 
 from the enemy in the heat of battle, each soldier is an individual with a slightly different appearance 
 than his comrades. The lack of synchronisation between units truly adds a layer of depth to the 
 combat experience that the genre has never approached before.
  
  The textures of the game are top-notch. The environments are incredibly well-detailed -- it is evident 
 that the developers and programmers put an excruciating level of effort in even the smallest of 
 details -- from the grass on the ground and the leaves on the trees to the birds that fly above the 
 carnage. The weather-effects and terrain detail is astonishing. Honestly, no amount of description 
 here can do true justice to the awe-inspiring realism of the actual game. Battles (often with upwards 
 of 3000 individual units) are a humbling sight, rivaling the grand cinematic battles of Hollywood. 
 With its incredible gameplay, the graphics are more like icing on the cake than anything else in 
 Medieval 2. But bear in mind that, icing though it may be, it is ever-so delicious.
  
  Audio
  Just as in previous Total War games, the overall sound quality is of the very highest 
 caliber. The music, though rather reminiscent of Rome: Total War, is well-written, played and recorded 
 and has a very epic feel to it. The environmental and battle sounds are equally impressive. Never 
 before has the sound of cavalry charge of heated infantry melee sounded so realistic.
  
  The voice acting is, for the most part, stellar. The only real problem is that several nations 
 are reduced to rather poorly-accented stereotypes that have a preternatural ability to irritate 
 the player in a very, very short amount of time. Is nice to see each different diplomatic unit 
 speak in his or her own voice, and the some of the accents are pretty good. Others, however, are 
 horrid. The Polish and Italian accents are some rather startling examples of just how bizarre the 
 standards for this game were.
  
  Before each of the historical battles you are treated to a cut-scene (just as in Rome) of the battle 
 from a historical perspective, narrated by the same random monk that narrates virtually every single 
 aspect of the game. He describes the basic history of the battle and what most be done to achieve 
 victory.
  
  Before EVERY tactical battle, the General addresses his troops very much the same way general addressed 
 troops in Rome. When you start the battle you have the opportunity to wait, and though it does 
 not start immediately, after a few seconds the general of your forces will make a speech. Though 
 the dialogue here is far less irritating than it was in Rome it still gets very repetitive rather 
 quickly. Instead of the long-winded speeches of Rome, where the General would constantly reiterate 
 obvious tactics, the speeches in Medieval 2 are kept very short, few exceed more than a single 
 sentence. Luckily, these scenes can be skipped at the behest of the player, though it would have 
 been nice if the developers had put forth a tad more effort in this area.
  
  Final Comments
  I mentioned in the beginning that even a history scholar would in enjoy this 
 game. I also mentioned that it was far from being historically accurate. At first glance it would 
 seem that these two statements are mutually exclusive. Let me assure you that they are not. The 
 only real historical accuracy in the game stems from the half-dozen historical battles that were 
 included with the game. But there is much, much more history-laden goodness on the way.
  
  Total War games have traditionally had a very enthusiastic fanbase. Many of these fans devote themselves 
 to creating player-made modifications to the game to force a pure historical-realism to the gameplay. 
 One such mod, Rome: Total Realism for Rome: Total War was insanely popular, introducing new units, 
 stats, factions and maps to the game to make it as true to the known history as possible. Medieval 
 2 looks to be getting the same treatment. Medieval 2: Total Realism is already under development 
 by the community, and when it is completed it will make an excellent game even better.
  
  For gamers wanting to play ANY kind of strategic game, there are only three real choices: there 
 are the Warcraft that present extremely simple rock-paper-scissors style combat in tactical arenas 
 of varying detail and limited complexity, there are the Civilization style games that attempt to 
 create a massively detailed political landscape replete with competent artificial intelligence 
 and a complex diplomatic engine, and then there are alternative games like Medieval 2 that combine 
 the very best aspects of both other genres in order to create a thing that is far superior than 
 the sum of its parts.
  
  To be sure, Medieval 2 has its flaws. There are many issues that should be resolved with future 
 software updates, several that the astoundingly-active community will address with third-party 
 modifications, and a few that should never have left the developer's table. Nonetheless, Medieval 
 2 is an amazing game that provides a depth of gameplay that precious few other games can equal. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MacEb3
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 14, 2006 4:47 am PT
Review:  Very much worth the wait. It's Rome, but more like Rome ++. A step up from that game. The ai still 
 needs more adjustments and tweeks on different difficulties. In the next TW they make I pray they 
 have real-time battles with fleets. The only thing besides the ai that holds me back from giving 
 this a perfect is the lack of care for fleet vs. fleet battles. They should have the formula down 
 by the next game. Where can they take it from here though? - - Civil War ... American Revolution... 
 (lack of different types of units might bore me... but who knows?) Overall I loved this game just 
 as much if not more than Rome. Thank you Sega for not screwing this up by letting Creative Assembly 
 do there thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kemicon
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 13, 2006 1:32 pm PT
Review:  Medieval Total War 2 is so similar to Rome Total War that one could almost argue that it is more 
 of an expansion or a mod than a full fledged new game. Granted you have more units to choose from 
 and the engine has been polished and beefed up to allow more characters on screen. In the end even 
 though there have been a few additions to the formula, it feels far too familiar. For one, most 
 of the AI problems have resurfaced here and the cluttered and oddly designed menus are back in 
 full effect. Expect to have many of your orders ignored by your troops as often as the enemy troops 
 will do something incredibly stupid. For instance in my first battle a legion of crossbowmen came 
 out of the castle and faced heavy casualties from my forces. They wisely turned tail and ran only 
 to get stuck on the castle gates with their backs to my archers. I then proceeded to pick them 
 off one by and they never did change their strategy. In the end the game is still fun, it is a 
 Total War game after all. If you were frustrated by some questionable AI in Rome Total War and 
 didn't love the overall experience then you may want to steer clear. If you loved the heck out 
 of Rome Total War then you will undoubtedly find a lot to enjoy here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thigeic
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 12, 2006 3:09 pm PT
Review:  Medieval 2 suprised me, I dident have very high expectations to it. Since I thought the developers 
 had gone out of ides since thay did this, that is, made a game thay used the 2 on, and not a total 
 new name as they have always done.
  The graphics in this game get you to feel like your looking at a real battle on a movie, or the 
 likes of it. Atleast if you have an great computer. Like the diffrent looks on soldiers in your 
 squad. And that they fight alot more like two solders fighting. Not just hitting in a direction 
 where another soldier is. You can sometime see solder using his shield to hit another solder. Block 
 his attack. Try to knock him over with his sholder. And then slay him when he is on the ground. 
 When horses ride into a boucnh of solders, and you can see the troppers getting thrown around. 
 Or when an elephant just swings lose on some troppers. It feels well balanced. But sometimes at 
 harder difficultys it feels like the computer have more health and armor then your own troppers 
 insted of better skills to the comander. It might just be me, but atleast it feels like it. This 
 is very much TOTAL WAR. More then ever. The battles feels really epic when you start playing the 
 big battles. With canons that crush the walls. Make troppers fly around when you use artilery on 
 them. The game could been better tho. If thay could do something so we can play multiplayer on 
 the world map aswell. As I have been looking forward to in every Total War game, but i hasve never 
 gotten it. It would be alot better... and i will miss it until i get it in another Total War game. 
 overall this is a must have game for strategy fans. You can acctauly have alot of fun in the tactical 
 view to now. like spying, assasination, trading takeovers, dipolomacy ect. You also got some missions 
 that will pop in every now and then, from the diffrent guilds you can get in your many citys, the 
 consil of nobels, or the Pope.
  Not following the pope can put you in a really bad position. You can even get in a really bad war, 
 You always wanna stay on the popes good side. And maybe he can help you in your wars, against the 
 nations that dosent follow the pope as good as you do. There is alot to be found in this game. 
 I probebly have'nt found eveything yet, but Im done with this game for now. Not becouse I dont 
 like it. But becouse there are new games to play. If i dident get all the new games I would probebly 
 play this for another 100 hours atleast. So its well worth the money you pay for it. Its overall 
 very good. And will last you for around 100 hours of gameing time. Online and singleplayer. But 
 after that you will be sick of it, and just do a game every now and then. It dosent last you to 
 long, becouse of the borring way of multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KareKare87
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 12, 2006 2:39 pm PT
Review:  With the amount of gameplay that I've been able to have with this game. I've just been completely 
 blown away! however, Iam quite annoyed of a few prolbems that occurs in this game. For example, 
 when cavalry units are cutting down routing units they spread out in different directions, form 
 up, then pursue again? hmmm... annoying! They just dont get the job done sometimes they stall and 
 just watch their enemies asses as they are pursuing them. Another thing is the AI controlled reinforcements. 
 In the Grand Campaign, dealing with a strong oppostion such as (timurids) requires much needed 
 assistance. So I rally up 2 armies against the rivaling army . I come into the fray of battle hoping 
 to get some assistance and my AI reinforcements just stand there! what is this? I really hope they 
 get that fixed because its making me upset. But the pros outweigh the cons, because of the depth 
 of the game, the graphics, the sound, the environments, the cannons! finally!, and simply to put 
 it the (knights) , awesome! their back! and they kick some serious but! Have fun with this game! 
 its gonna go for hours! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HighlandKnight
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 11, 2006 5:06 pm PT
Review:  I'll admit to being hooked by the wonderfully slick preview videos I'd seen over the past few months. 
 I loved the horses, the armour, the weapons, the heraldry and livery colours, the amazing landscapes 
 and towering citadels. I assumed that the incredible level of detail I saw in the videos was not 
 going to be most enjoyable thing if I bought the game, however. Sure enough, I DO love the incredible 
 detail in the graphics (individual people, not clones) , but I rarely zoom in close enough in a 
 battle to see the good stuff. I'm much too busy overseeing my strategy versus the enemy's. Battles 
 are FUN!!! However, after a bit of a false start in the wrong direction, I realized that M2TW is 
 a game that needs you to think not just a move in advance, but several moves (often representing 
 years in the game) . You need to keep track of your cities and/or castles, but you don't have to 
 micro-manage (for which I'm VERY thankful) . Just keep a close watch on relations, the growth of 
 your armies, the age of your princesses (I wouldn't marry them off to any Tom, Dick or Sir Harry) , 
 and other factors. You can reload a previous save if something drastic happens during a turn, but 
 planning is KEY! I find the game so vast in its scale that I always want to do one more thing before 
 shutting my system down for the night. I like the AI (your choice of difficulty levels) of the 
 enemy, as well as the lack of control over some things that are quite important. For example, I 
 may not like the way a family member is going in terms of his/her retinue (followers who affect 
 one or more of the trait ratings of the family member) , but there's not much I can do in some cases, 
 which is realistic (note: don't expect a history lesson -- it's a game) . Still, I can work to control 
 my developing kingdom through the first and then subsequent rulers. I really enjoyed the first 
 Medieval: Total War, but M2TW is FAR beyond the original game -- similar, but much more advanced.
 
  
  I wish I could play more factions! Honestly, I did expect more factions to be available, even if 
 not ALL of them. I'd love to start with the Scots and then spread out from there. Also, players 
 should be able to play one or more Islamic factions. I find the Islamic factions represented really 
 well -- it would be nice to play one. I currently play as Spain, my usual faction of choice.
  
  My advice to new players is simple: learn the mechanics of the game and know the relative strengths/weaknesses 
 of units. You never grow old, but the family members of your faction do; plan for the future. I 
 didn't accept every suitor who came along, but I sometimes waited a bit too long by being too particular 
 who married into my family. You are building a dynasty, after all. Enjoy!!! I'm off to play some 
 more.... Just one more thing to do before I quit playing for the night.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hamidfull
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 11, 2006 1:26 pm PT
Review:  Medieval 2: Total War have excitement of Rome Total War and abilities of Knight of honor means 
 you have abilities of turn base strategy games inside real-time strategy games
  the game is rich in battles champaigns, world map and diplomacy
  if you like strategy games you 
 must buy and play it
  
  Goods : Excellent gameplay + graphic, hot detailes!!, hot battlefield, best controls that you have 
 seen until now, great battlefield sounds and great Complete toturial
  Bads : nothing!
  
  about graphic I should say my DS4 + E6300 + 7900GS @ stock can run game with all options set to 
 high + 2AA 16AF and I have 13-23 FPS @ minimum and its full playable 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stratos1990
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 11, 2006 10:23 am PT
Review:  Well, the graphics? Absolutly stunning, and they don't really need a monster mashine to get full 
 advatange of them (wich is very important) !!! The gameplay is about just like Total War-Rome with 
 some slight differences. The sound is (by my opinion) better than the previous game. The battles 
 aren't very hard (if you have played another game that recuires strategy and tactical skills -wich 
 means no warcraft, age of empires, rise of legents and the like) . New stuff: new nations, new units, 
 more realistic animations, more realistic battles (spesificaly the arrows are look much better 
 now) , where used to be the Roman counsil that gave missions, now there is the pope! in fact, if 
 you are in very good terms with the pope and other catholic nations you can have your priest become 
 the next popoe!!! (wich means you can start your own crusades!! yes yes) ! In this game you can 
 also see the Aztecs and the first cannons and rifles.
  
  Though all these makes Medieval II: Total War a great game, after Rome: Total War, i was kind of 
 expecting something much better, so i'm a little dissapointed. (that doesn't mean this is not an 
 awsome game)
  
  Also try out lan battles if you have more than 2 or more pcs in your house.
  It really enables 
 you to apriciate the game in a whoole new level!
  
  Multiplayer tip: don't play games with too much units, and it would be best if you's lower the 
 unit scale as much as possible so you wont have any problems. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kyokozam
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 10, 2006 9:49 pm PT
Review:  Total war Medieval 2 a game well done . Although the game share the same engine as Total War Rome 
 but the game play is much different from the latter . Medieval 2 introduce a much easy to adapt 
 and better control environment . As it not that complex to understand and manage.
  Deployment of unit and issuing of orders is very much straight forward and
  challenging . After 
 you've taken a siege , building up your base , recruiting of units and fulfilling the request from 
 the Pope . Its pretty much the same stuff . Graphic and sound is a lot more better . Zoom in when 
 your're in battlefield those little and amazing detail is well blend and mix . As if you're in 
 real life battle . Background of battle and mission map are equally well done . Except there're 
 some bug here and there . Also getting use to the camera movement with mouse and keypad need some 
 time to adjust and
  adapt . Could be frustrating especially in the mist of battle . Nevertheless, its
  should not 
 spoil your mood or enjoyment in the game .
  
  Overall this game is worth every single cents. If you love RTS game this is
  one that you should 
 not miss . Go through the tutorial first, its does help one to understand and handle the game more 
 effectively. Its time to shelves
  the game Total War : Rome and go for Medieval 2 . Its a better engine with beautiful graphic and 
 gameplay . Wait no further........ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: totoleephat
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 9, 2006 10:10 pm PT
Review:  Classic game play, you will feel like playing the old version. Exactly, maybe it is a compilation 
 of the late feature. It has action scene movies (action from assassin, spy) , high-detailed battle, 
 even the barbarian expansion (talking about Mongols) .
  
  But when we see the graphic detail, it has awesome detail texture. Especially the armor detail, 
 city / castle detail, environment detail, it have magnificent upgrade (so, prepare for maximized 
 your PC performance... : &gt; ) . When you go into the battle scene, I think it has some new looks, 
 a bit of different on orders configuration from the late version.
  
  But the most important thing is the research detail. I think Sega and Creative Assembly had done 
 a serious detail about Crusader era. Not just about the passion of crusader with the pope politic 
 or diplomatic princess, but also the detailed culture for the Muslim. I salute for the developer 
 who can describe each faction with a balance characteristic. Especially with the words and conversations.
 
  
  So, the key words are: classic, graphic, and historic 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Are_You_Morbid
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 9, 2006 9:15 am PT
Review:  Epic game. Absolutely magnificent graphics, great gameplay, great sound. I must say that when it 
 was first anounced I've been waiting something in the lines of Rome total War. But it came out 
 even better. The management of the empire is much more convenient with the two types of settlements. 
 So insted of looking in which settlement there are capable units to produce, you can go directly 
 to the castles. The AI is quite good as well. The rebels are as always annoying, mostly due to 
 the religious unrest that they can cause. Merchants are a smart addition too. All seems to fit in 
 perferctly. The main goal is to raise money. No money no war. It is very good that there are two 
 modes in the campaign, long and short. Also the special abilities of the units can prove really 
 useful. Especialy the spikes ability of the longbowmen and the hedgehog of spearmen. A great game! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: undead4110
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 9, 2006 4:27 am PT
Review:  Ok first let me start by saying this is probably the most buggy game released in like the last 
 five years. Half of the game is almost unplayable right now its as good as playing a beta, let 
 put in some examples for example cavalary most of the time do not charge, the ai sits idle while 
 you pummle it with arrows, soldiers wielding two handed weapons do not fight, apparently (haventh 
 encountered this one yet as ive yet have to fight elefpahnts) when fighting elephants the game 
 crashes, units spread out when fighting letting like four guys out of a whole group to fight while 
 the others stand back watching like a bunch of morons etc etc (theres a lot more but those are 
 not important as these) seriously these deter a lot from gameplay if there werent any of these 
 bugs the game could easyly achive a 9.5
  
  Anyway now let explain some of the good things. First the game is very immersive with its high 
 quality grapfhics its very stylish and makes you get a real feel of medieval warefare while maintaining 
 a decent fps for older pcs Second the gameplay is frantastic ( if it werent for those damn bugs) 
 with crusades, pope, gunpowder units and other cool units etc etc Anyway to end it here this is 
 a great game thought if your going to buy dont do it wait for patch or maybe two cause your going 
 to be let down by its bugs 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dannenissan2
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 9, 2006 3:35 am PT
Review:  Medieval 2 , is the sequel to the great game Medieval 1.
  While Medieval 2 is missing some features of the first game , the feeling of total medieval warfare 
 is still there. You can go on crusades with mighty armies , you can conquer europe in a great Medieval 
 feeling.
  The graphics is at its best , with finishing moves for infantry and seeing knights charge some 
 armoured infantry looks Brilliant and the sound of the battles makes you feel like you are in the 
 batttle.
  Effects like men burning houses on fire and the cannons and the Cowlaunching trebuchets gives you 
 a long-lasting fun experience.
  
  Although ,,, all games has its flaws
  example : Diplomatic alliances and ceasefires is very hard to keep in the grand campaign etc.
 
  But Ofcourse there is gonna be patches!.
  
  The grand campaign gives you the oppurtunity to lead an faction to glory and victory!.
  the playable 
 factions is England, France , Venice , Milan , Spain , Portugal , Russia , Turks , Egypt Moors 
 , Holy Roman Empire , Byzantine Empire , Denmark ,Sicily , Hungary and Poland. 16 playable factions 
 all of them are unique.
  You will also need to battle the fierce hordes of Mongols and Timurids which will invade europe!.
 
  
  Anyhow Medieval 2 is a great game , Worth Buying! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slayer_Sam
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 7, 2006 11:29 am PT
Review:  The Total War series has yet to let us down. Through three different iterations and a handful of 
 expansions, the series has consistently delivered some of the most exciting and visually appealing 
 tactical action in any strategy game, historical or otherwise. It should come as no surprise then 
 that the latest in the series, Medieval II: Total War, is an undeniably thrilling strategy experience. 
 Be warned, however. This is not the revolutionary leap forward we saw in Rome: Total War. The new 
 sequel takes the basic package of Rome and revisits the basic campaign setting of the original 
 Medieval: Total War. In terms of the overall gameplay, there aren't that many surprises here for 
 fans of the series. There are a few new touches here and there that are worth investigating, as 
 well as some substantial improvements in the graphics department. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SacrificiaLamb
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 6, 2006 5:10 pm PT
Review:  For Total War veterans, there are no surprises in this game. A few new features have been added: 
 the ability to call crusades, papal influence and excommunication, inquisitors, princesses, priests, 
 'exploration' of the New World, and a few other things.
  
  The greatest improvement is obviously the graphics, provided your computer can handle it. Units 
 are much more detailed and varied and the scale of things is more impressive. Cities look like 
 real cities now, complete with houses, churches, workshops, etc., smoke rising from chimneys and 
 so on. A huge city will really look huge, absolutely sprawling. Each city also tends to appear 
 unique to some extent, with a specific layout and architectural style.
  
  The units look more varied than those found in Rome, with variations in helmets, shields and armor 
 (usually 3 kinds of each, with additional variations in color) , so no more clone wars. Normal and 
 specular mapping were put to good use and bring more realism to each unit, cloth given the appearance 
 of texture and metal armor made shiny. The animations are a big step forward as well. Units will 
 be seen blocking attacks with their shields or sticking a sword through someone's gut while they 
 lay squirming on the ground. I was impressed at how well-coordinated the animations were. You'll 
 never see a unit swinging at an empty space... he'll always be engaged with another unit in a believable 
 fashion. The environmental effects are quite nice.
  
  Different times of day look as they should - sunsets create a reddish glow over everything, etc. 
 It rains, snows, may be foggy, or you may be in the middle of a sandstorm in the desert.
  
  The AI has been improved in some ways, but unfortunately there are times when it breaks and rather 
 badly. Oftentimes, it breaks when encountering a large number of missile units. The enemy will 
 tend to charge, stop, retreat, re-charge, stop, over and over until they're all mowed down. If 
 you move melee units forward to engage them, they break that cycle, but otherwise, they go nowhere. 
 Also, when the enemy AI is overmatched it tends to retreat to high ground and just sit there, allowing 
 the player to surround its army. There are also some problems with sieges, as the AI tends to run 
 right up to the walls and get its units picked off by the missile defenses. The entire opposing 
 army will rush forward into missile range as soon as you move one unit outside the city/castle, 
 which creates a bit of a bait-and-shoot exploit. As soon as they get close, you move that unit 
 back inside, the enemy army slowly turns around and walks back to their positions, getting shot 
 in the back as they go.
  
  Despite these flaws, I still found the AI to be a considerable step forward from Rome. The AI can 
 now make decent attempts at city sieges. They will build siege equipment, ladders, rams, towers, 
 and will use them fairly effectively. I've actually lost a few cities to the AI (albeit outnumbered 
 by at least 3:1 in those cases) , which is something I can't say for Rome. The AI also does a much 
 better job defending cities. I no longer see units haplessly running up and down the streets dying 
 under a rain of arrows. The walls are usually loaded with missile units and spearmen behind them 
 to counter the ladders. If you're sieging a city and it's going to fall next turn, the AI will 
 come out and attack you as a last-ditch effort. Cavalry is smarter - they'll charge, pull back, 
 and charge again, which I don't remember seeing in Rome. There seem to be fewer instances of single-stack 
 armies running around, but it still happens.
  
  Even though there's nothing groundbreaking here, it's still worth checking out just for the spectacle. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: odella
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 13, 2006 4:42 am PT
Review:  MTW2 should have represented a quantum leap forward from RomeTW but instead the Ai is as weak if 
 not weaker. For example in numerous battles your opponents will quite happily sit in front of you 
 being rained with arrows until they are all wiped out, additional technical glitches like being 
 able to walk through siege towers etc etc also abound.
  By far the worst problems exist around the diplomacy AI which is appalling e. g. the weakest faction 
 in the game will declare war despite the fact you have large armies near their best provinces. 
 Enemies will never make peace no matter how badly off they are and allies of long standing will 
 suddenly change and declare war even though you are much stronger.
  A much touted 'Day 0' patch has yet to materialize, my advice is to keep an eye on the TW Forums 
 until this appears and see if it solves these problems - they are so fundamental it's hard to see 
 how.
  The list of fixes is now available and are largely tinkering at the edges. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mk1234
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 6, 2006 5:58 am PT
Review:  Medieval 2 Total War is the best Total War to date. I agree with Gamespot's review when they say 
 that you can sum it up as epic. It truly is an epic experience. From launching crusades, to dominating 
 Europe and then the New World its all there. This game is so much fun and it has something for 
 everyone. The only real problem, was that you need quite a powerful machine. Also the AI has been 
 revamped, you can tell the the sutle diffrences, as the AI which was lax at best in Rome: Total 
 War. The AI is not as smart as it could be but it has been much improved. The AI is still not the 
 best oppent, they seem not to defend or attack all that eggresievly. The interactions with the 
 pope are particularly nice and adds another layer to the story, and yet another thing that you 
 have to manage. In this game there is a lot of work that you have to do mananging the economy, 
 religion and politcs, of a faction in the Middle Ages. So if you liked Rome: Total War than you 
 will most definetly love this game. If you are new to the series try Rome: Total War first as it 
 is slightly easier. Overall this is a fantastic game well worth the investment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elaphander89
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 5, 2006 7:21 pm PT
Review:  To start, the graphics are great, battles are as large and epic as ever, and the campaign map is 
 awesome.
  
  Now the problems...
  
  Battle mechanics need a little fixing. I constantly find one of my units fighting an enemy with 
 only like 20% of their force, while the rest stays way back. Cavalry charges are also an issue 
 with them not lowering their spears (its actually not just a visual defect, it actually affects 
 the charge whether or not the spears are lowered) but thankfully, i heard their fixing that problem. 
 Now the campaign seems shorter than usual to me. I never maxed out time on Rome, but on this I 
 did. On the grand campaign, u have about 200-250? turns, seems like a lot but a single war can 
 go on for over a 100 turns, with no chance of calling for a cease fire. The relations system somewhat 
 works but at other times, when you want a ceasfire, the only way to get it with an enemy that you 
 have the worst possible relationship with, is to give like 7000 currency and like 4 regions. can 
 you say INSANE? but i'm sure that all this can be fixed in future patches.
  
  Overall, a GREAT addition to the series, though personally, I rather have the total war series 
 expand to Napoleonic time. Face it, nearly every other Napoleon game failed except Cossacks which 
 still wasn't that great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HX55
Rating: 6.7
Date: Dec 4, 2006 2:30 pm PT
Review:  I don't think there's a word in the English language that will allow me to accurately describe 
 the anticipation I felt for M2TW. I'll admit that I was surprised to find out the CA would return 
 to the lands of Europe again, after MTW, RTW, and the expansions for both, but I was more than 
 willing to give it a shot. In the end though, it feels just too much like RTW for my likings, and 
 while it may look great, the bugs that the unpatched version ships with are bad enough to drive 
 even a casual gamer crazy.
  
  Let's start with the good. The real-time battles look great, if you've got the system to run it. 
 I've got a P4 3gig, a 512meg video card, and 1.5gigs of RAM, and M2TW chugs at times with settings 
 barely above medium. I've seen screenshots of battles that involve higher unit counts and other 
 options, but my system bogs down when I try it. You might have different results. Even on the medium 
 settings, the armies look great, and yes, the clone armies of the past are gone. Some of the differences 
 between individual soldiers in the same unit are small, they're still there. The battles look great, 
 thanks to new animations, ranging from individual soldier deaths to the combustion of untis struck 
 by flaming ammunition. An added plus is the way the camera shakes and shudders when you are zoomed 
 in on a unit under fire from seige units. Other graphical improvements include castles... the first 
 time you see a citadel will make you wonder how you'll ever manage to make a dent in the place.
 
  
  Sadly, that's where the improvements end. The strategy map looks the same as RTW, with the only 
 new features being expanded areas to capture and a new resource system that requires merchants 
 to exploit. It is in the strategy portion of the game that errors (at least before the patch) really 
 show up... let's take a look:
  
  Diplomacy: They may call it a new system, but it's not. There are some new options available to 
 you, but the approach the AI takes to diplomatic decisions will leave you scratching your head. 
 Be fully prepared for game long allies to betray you within the first 50 turns. Be ready for war, 
 once started, to last until you crush your enemy beneath your feet. Once engaged, the AI adopts 
 the Tim Allen school of Never give up, never surrender. While it is possible to buy the AI off 
 with large amounts of money, just know that you can still have 5 stacks of men around the last 
 city your enemy has, send in a diplomat before seiging, and have your demand for vassalship refused. 
 Also be prepared to receive at least 3 envoys from your enemy demanding you return the cities you've 
 taken to them in exchange for a ceasefire. Those familiar with RTW will recognize this as the same 
 diplomacy system from that game with a new coat of paint. It is sad that CA had time to fix it 
 and did not. In addition, the AI makes stupid choices as to when it starts a war with you.... be 
 ready to have 30+ regions and have a minor faction blockade one of your ports and start a war it 
 has no hope of winning. For those of us who were really hoping CA would get it right this time, 
 the diplomacy system is strike one.
  
  Religion: This section only applies if you're playing a catholic faction. Playing an Islamic faction 
 doesn't have much impact on the game other than your lands being a target for crusades and your 
 being able to call a jihad to capture previously muslim held lands. Orthodox Chrisitan factions 
 don't have anything similar to the crusade or jihad, but they have the advantage of not having 
 to worry about the Pope. And if you're a catholic faction, worry you will. Your worry will come 
 from several areas.... first, you have to keep the Pope happy, which is, as far as I can tell, mostly 
 accurate. You keep the Pope happy by building churches, raising catholic zeal in areas you may 
 or may not control, crusading against factions the Pope deems worthy of your attention, and by 
 not engaging other catholic factions. This last area is what will drive you nuts. Be ready for 
 another catholic faction to attack you, for you to respond, and for a papal envoy to arrive shortly 
 thereafter and demand that you stop all aggression or face excommunication. Also be ready for inquisitors... while 
 no one may expect the Spanish Inquisition, the M2TW inquisition is all too understandable and inevitable. 
 Unlike the first MTW, inquisitor units in M2TW are AI controlled only, and they roam the landscape 
 like death itself. They tend to show up in lands that have low levels of catholic belief, and proceed 
 to execute at least 90% of the people they put on trial. Be ready for your king, princes, generals, 
 merchants, and anyone else visable on the map to be burned at the stake. This has to do with the 
 level of piety according to the manual, but I've had a king with high piety in a capitol ruling 
 over a province that had a 99% catholic rating be executed. It's frustrating, not only because 
 you can't control it, but because in the time I've played the game, I can't figure out a way to 
 counter them. All of my assassins have only a 5% chance to take out an inquisitor. The CA forums 
 run red with people talking about cheating to teleport inquisitors half-way across the world. Not 
 to mention that trying and failing to assassinate a papal unit to drop your rating with them, which 
 leads to excommunication, which means more inquisitors...... :-)
  
  Faction Strength: Simply put, some factions are too weak, while some factions are too strong. In 
 only one of my campaigns has the Holy Roman Empire survived any length of time. The Byzantine Empire 
 routinely routs the Turks and everyone else until the Mongols show up. Minor factions, such as 
 Denmark and Milan can and do attempt to rule the vast majority of the world. The Mongols are almost 
 impossibly strong, and proceed to wipe most everyone they encounter out, at least until the Timurids 
 show up with their elephant-mounted cannons that act as medieval tanks and proceed to join the 
 fun. The Aztecs are fun, but be forwarned about the huge raging bands of ragtag natives who don't 
 ever rout. Ever. In the end, M2TW looks nice, and once patched the game might reach its full potential.... but 
 the AI that builds one ram, one seige tower, and one ladder to assault a fully guarded fortress 
 (and then proceeeds to run ALL of its infantry units up the one set of ladders) is wonky, the diplomacy 
 has got to be fixed, and there are some major balance issues that have to be addressed to make 
 it more playable. I really, really wanted to like this game. Maybe I'm just getting tired of playing 
 TW games in Europe. Maybe I'm just really disappointed that CA had years to fix problems clearly 
 identified in RTW and didn't. All I do know is that for all the new battlefield eye candy, this 
 current build leaves me wanting more..... looks great, less filling. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sjci2006
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 4, 2006 9:59 am PT
Review:  I have played and own Lords of the Realm 1 and 2, Age of empires series, Rise of Nations, Empire 
 Earth, MTW, Rome TW and MTW2 and it has by far surpassed the test of the true strategist. The best 
 part about this game has to be the turn based installment made into the game and then the RTS battles. 
 This game is a great buy and you cant get bored of the game play as the Pope demands missions all 
 the time, opposing armies attack and other countries want diplomacy. Not to forget managing your 
 own towns and cities to ensure your people stay catholic and happy. The game is jam packed with 
 little add-ons, not to mention the amazing textural graphics. I would advise a strong computer 
 with a great graphics card as this game makes your computer work hard. Overall, you cant lose with 
 this game, it is truly spectacular. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ygskills
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 3, 2006 11:21 pm PT
Review:  Total War series are probably my favorites games of all time as I spent countless hours without 
 stopping. Heck, I've been playing Rome for a year and a half. Anyways, this is based on a continuing 
 fan's point of view.
  
  Good graphics. Good same old gameplay. However...
  
  TOO MUCH NOTICEABLE BUGS AND AI STUPIDITY.
  
  This is probably make more sense to those of 
 you who played Rome for a long time. This is bugging me so much that I've stopped playing the game. 
 I just decided to wait until the patch comes out. I'm basically disappointed to wonder why the 
 game was released with so much flaws. Again, if you've played Rome, you know what I'm talking about.
 
  
  I suggest you to just wait for you patch. Read the forum for positive feedback. THEN, buy the game. 
 Not now, you'll be disappointed like me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sc_Kerrigan
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 3, 2006 9:52 pm PT
Review:  it's true what some people say, in the turn n&deg; 40 or 50, all your allies began to atack you, 
 and you can't do anything..
  i hope in the next expansion fix this **** problem..
  the graphics are excelente, but is not enough..
  and, the faccions that you have when you start, 
 are horrible, i want turks, or moors :D :D
  after i play it, i prefer rome..... it doesn't have the same graphic but you can play it more time 
 than this..
  so, it was very disappointing when i installed and played.
  i waited so much for this, and now i have to wait more for the expansion.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joramHH
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 2, 2006 10:49 am PT
Review:  The good: Very pretty, captures the flavor of the era, lots of choices, big map. Interesting new 
 gameplay with city/castle choices.
  
  The bad: Horrible, horrible tactical AI. Lots of bugs. Time limit seems short. Time scale (2yrs/turn) 
 takes away from immersion.
  
  The entirely mediocre: The strategic AI
  
  I own every game in the series except for the Mongol expansion to Shogun so I've had a lot of experience 
 with the series. It's hard to say to if that means I'm more lenient of the errors or more critical 
 but I'll try to write as objective a review as I can.
  
  Fans of the series, especially of Rome Total War (RTW) , will be instantly familiar with the game 
 and it's objectives because except for a few interesting tweaks, it is very similar in feel to 
 RTW. For those of you who have never played the series, the objectives are quite simple. You start 
 off with a mini-campaign where you have to capture 15 territories. Once you've completed this, 
 it unlocks more playable factions (I didn't count but I think it's around a dozen) and you now 
 have the choice of large campaign where you conquer 45 territories (which feels like it is well 
 over half the map) . There are also a couple prerequisites you must meet as well besides the territory 
 (for example, Spain must capture Granada and Jerusalem inevitably pitting them against Egyptians 
 and the Moors)
  
  Where the depth comes in is really in which faction you choose. Each has different units such as 
 longbows, hobilars, and billmen for the English as opposed to Jinetes (a missile cavalry unit) , 
 Almughavers (a very good foot javelin unit) , and tercio's (a late period spanish phalanx) for the 
 spanish. There are of course units that are common to all factions and some factions are very similar 
 but even where the units are similar, they are in quite a different situation. Take Spain and Portugal 
 for instance which have similar units but Portugal is split into two territories completely separated 
 by Spain and both countries border the Moors, a strong faction.
  
  While the mini-campaign allows you to only choose a Christian faction, once unlocked you can choose 
 from factions that belong to Christian, Islam, and Eastern Orthodox Christian. Christian factions 
 of course have to be careful about warring against other Christian factions because the Pope generally 
 frowns upon this (though not always) and could excommunicate you. This has a number of effects 
 as causing your population to revolt as well as allowing every Christian faction to pounce on you 
 freely. Unfortunately, the AI doesn't seem to be entirely logical in this because I often am attacked 
 by Christian factions and they are usually excommunicated, but it never really seems to make sense. 
 They don't pursue the war aggressively and while if stronger, may take a territory from me, the 
 damage is usually limited and they are now preyed upon by other Christian factions losing more 
 than they gain. The main advantage of being Christian is that you can ask the pope for a Crusade. 
 This has many strategic implications such as allowing you to conquer a far off territory and gaining 
 cheap troops to do it with (apparently zealots are cheap to equip!) or if you choose not to join, 
 you may hope it weakens the target of the Crusade or even a Christian faction you may be at war 
 with as it will at least take away a general and some troops from them. I found this part quite 
 enjoyable as it adds a new dimension to the gameplay though I've read some people find it frustrating. 
 I think if you toy with it and know when to press and when to hold back, it really immerses you 
 in the era. While I won't get into the details, the Islamic factions have a similar mechanic called 
 a Jihad (though you are restricted to territories formerly lost) and don't have restrictions warring 
 with each other as there is no religious mediary like the pope.
  
  Though both of these pieces of gameplay existed in the original MTW, I think they are better implemented 
 in MTW 2.
  
  A big difference from all the TW series is the new choices you make for your cities. You can choose 
 that it be a city or a castle . Cities of course are where you really earn your money and also 
 raise foot and missile militia (generally poor and cheap at first but certainly not always!) . Castles 
 is where you train your elite units (generally heavy cav) and generate a little revenue but where 
 they really come into play is their inner wall. No longer do you have to worry about the enemy 
 sieging you and penetrating your outer walls and all is lost. You can now retreat to the inner 
 wall! This lets you regroup and generally hold the fort against a much larger opponent than before. 
 This adds an interesting new dimension to the gameplay and you always (for a price) can convert 
 one type to the other but be careful as you lose all the buildings that may not qualify. For instance 
 a castle can hold a chapel, but if you built a cathedral in a city (which costs a lot of money!) , 
 and then convert to a castle, you lose the cathedral. Some buildings, such as city halls don't 
 exist as all. So you don't often want to do this if your city/castle is too advanced as you will 
 lose a lot of prior investment.
  
  Ayway, sadly, it's the siege battles where the inadequate tactical AI really shows. One of the 
 main complaints people have is how the enemy often just stands there under a hail of arrows. This 
 is true of non-sieges too. If you have enough missiles, you can devestate the enemy before it ever 
 takes a step. This is near a gamebreaking bug unfortunately though thankfully the AI isn't always 
 so stupid.
  
  Back to the siege battles for castles, another bug is that the enemy infantry will often abandon 
 half of it's siege equipment and just run up to the walls and attack through one point. This might 
 sound like a smart move but this allows the defender to concentrate his defense in one or two spots 
 thus overwhelm the attacker unit by unit. It wouldn't be nearly so bad but they like abandoning 
 rams too so cav heavy armies will lose half it's ability. Finally, only once have I ever even seen 
 an enemy army bring catapults through the outer wall and attack the inner wall so if you were patient, 
 all you ever need to do is abandon the outer wall and just defend the inner wall. The time would 
 run out and you win the siege.
  
  So those are the main examples of the poor combat AI and it is much much to prevalent to have been 
 missed in testing. So it smacks of just another example of the publisher just rushing an unfinished 
 product out the door to get money as quickly as possible.
  
  While less prevalent, there are also pathing problems in both siege battles and regular battles 
 though I think it's due to different reasons. In sieges, it seems that units get stuck on invisible 
 pixels near the walls or sometimes thing there may be a gap in the wall (usually an inside corner) 
 where none exists. So they will just mass up there and die. Also, they made the decision such that 
 there is now no moving through the physical space occupied by the individual soldier, horse, or 
 siege engine. I believe in prior TW series this was abstracted so you generally never got hung 
 up on a friendly unit. This is no more and it is much more difficult to move units through each 
 other and while generally this adds the nice affect of disrupting the formation, it becomes horribly 
 troublesome when it comes to siege engines. The AI tend to like to make large groups of siege engines 
 (I'd venture to say it's another bug) and I counter with cav armies. Unfortunately, in the mad 
 scramble to get out of the way from my cav, the enemy siege engines will get hung up on each other 
 and will literally trap individual soldiers in the middle of siege engines. Unfortunately, whether 
 a bug or by design, it is near impossible to order your unit to hack away at the siege engine thus 
 if you don't have missile troops, you won't ever be able to touch the trapped unit and you will 
 lose the battle on time. Also, it seems to be a lot harder to get your units to charge correctly. 
 I'm told this takes a lot of practice but I haven't gotten the hang of it after a lot of hours 
 trying.
  
  Somehow this review turned into an exposition of the numerous bugs and inevitably they will be 
 fixed but it is a great disappointment and a really poor show of class by Sega to push it out the 
 door before it was really ready. But eventually they will fix it and I think that once it's done 
 it will be a great game.
  
  Before I wrap this up I'll also point out that there are now 5 different agent types you can build, 
 spies, assassings, diplomats, priests, and merchants which some can find tedious managing but personally 
 I enjoy. Again they add to the flavor of the game. A 6th agent is a princess which I have seen 
 start a game, but not knowing if it's a bug or bad luck, have never had one appear after the game 
 starts (though the enemy factions still get it) . Princesses are especially useful in that you can 
 use her as a diplomat or to lure away an enemy general or even to bolster the loyalty of a friendly 
 general. Well, as long as you can get past the idea that you're usually inbreeding! :)
  
  For those who have made it through this far in my review, I'll point out that yes, there is a New 
 World though it's usually so late in the game it doesn't do much for you and I believe you have 
 to be one of two factions to ever go there and the time scale is such (2yrs/turn) that you get 
 people who are literally twice as old as their bio says as I don't think they age at the same rate 
 as the time scale. Thankfully I'm told this is easily moddable but then you are doubling the length 
 of the game. This is good for some people as the game is only about 225 turns long which means 
 you really have to keep moving to capture your 45 territories, or you can mod it and take a more 
 leisurely approach.
  
  So in summary, though the largely what you would expect from an amalgamation of RTW and MTW, there 
 are new and interesting dimensions of the game to make it worth buying. However, due to the numerous 
 bugs on release, you might want to wait and see when (or if) they patch the game before you buy. 
 It's not unplayable as it is but it can be a frustrating experience. If you do get it, hope you 
 enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chanwahlong
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 2, 2006 8:11 am PT
Review:  if u watch the movie the battle of the wit it will make u more addictive to this game.. i am almost 
 speechless about this game.. it is worth to buy if it cost 100 dollar (singapore) .... my best game 
 in my life i even seen.. you will feel like u are the king commoning huge army ... BUT THE SYSTEM 
 CAN IMPROVE TO LOWER REQUIREMENT... pls i wish they have a patch to fix it..... MY COM IS 1gb ram 
 and it is intel pentium D and it is nice at the texture........ WORTH BUY!!!!! please buy this game 
 and u will have no reget........... speechless  BUY THIS 
  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: o12er
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 1, 2006 2:58 pm PT
Review:  A great game and a must buy if you have a good PC and like games that make u think, instead of 
 pushing buttons until they breaks. can be a long gaming experience or short depending on the pre 
 campaign settings and once beatin (can be easy or extremely hard) the game can be played from different 
 angles with varieous factions which keeps the game feeling new. although similar to rome total 
 war medieval has a greatly improved diplomacy system which makes you think twice about attacking 
 that weak faction or crossing the pope which will ultimately end up with u waring every catholic 
 nation under the sun. overall a great game and lots of fun thats worth the 11. whatever gigs... peace 
 out napoleon 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redfox62
Rating: 3.9
Date: Dec 1, 2006 2:49 pm PT
Review:  You have to laugh .. or cry even, at software these days.
  
  They sell you a game then finish writing it long after you bought it ???
  
  To everyone who 
 gave this game a high score .. did you really play it?
  
  Anyway, on to my review
  
  I truly believe this game could easily be one of the best games ever produced. It has so much going 
 for it. The bad news is .. they forgot to finish it. The testers for this game should be fired. 
 There i was defending my castle, surrounded by the enemy, vastly outnumbered ....... shall i go 
 on? ...... lol
  
  anyway .. you have to laugh
  
  Here's a quote from a French Captain .... 'we're under fire m'lord, our troops are dying ..... 
 m'lord? ....... m'lord?'
  
  and here's a quote from the English General ..... 'if we use the longbows, they will never see 
 it coming' ... lol
  
  I wish i was a game's tester ... i'd get paid for doing nothing .. for months ... lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheSungazer
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 30, 2006 9:48 pm PT
Review:  Really quite a remarkable game. The gameplay is great, the strategy and detail are phenomenal, 
 and the action is awesome. I'm not immediately giving it a perfect score because, ofcourse, it 
 is not perfect. Only thing I would be a little picky about would be the interface, but it works 
 well when you get the hang of it. Deserves at least a 90% rating, totally worth my money, and it 
 even came with some extra goodies, including a dvd on the crusades from the history channel for 
 you enthusiasts. I like it and would definitely recommend it for anyone who has or hasn't ever 
 played an rts/turn based strategy game. And the medieval theme only makes it more crazy. Now go 
 play! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aragornjer
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 30, 2006 5:35 pm PT
Review:  The game overall a masterpiece. Creative Assembly went all out with this game and it came out with 
 what I think very few bugs. There are some things like when a faction attacks me I try to take 
 back what is mine, the pope gets all mad. The battles couldn't be better. The soldiers and everything 
 looks different and that is soooo cool. It is definatly better than the first and better than rome. 
 Medieval 2, two thumbs way up. England which is my favorite county has to be in one of the hardest 
 situations in the game. Surrounded by the Scotish, French, Danish, Milan, Spain, and the Holy Roman 
 Empire it is quite hard to get out of the tight spot there are. Creative Assembly did their work 
 very well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: waynebow
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 29, 2006 12:26 am PT
Review:  I have a mid-range computer, which handles this game quite well on mid-low level settings. Even 
 at those settings, the game is a delight to watch and play. The eerie sight of pins of light (fiery 
 arrows) falling from a leaden sky onto the enemy takes me away to another time and place. This 
 game does a very good job at transporting the player. It is an easy game to become very engrossed 
 in, both at battle and world-map level. Playing the game on medium level settings, I am finding 
 it a good challenge, but not so hard that I cannot win something - and I find I am learning from 
 my military misnomers! I am thankful that castles and cities can be automanaged, because I am not 
 one for dealing with such details - I am a ruler who prefers to delegate! There is not much to 
 complain about with this game. I see some other reviewers have had technical issues. I have had 
 none on my system, and I wonder if some of those issues are caused by the users' systems being 
 too low spec. Some seem to buy this game thinking they can turn the settings down and still play. 
 That does not work. There is a reason the game lists system requirements on the box. The graphics 
 in this game are good quality (even at mid-low settings that I play at) . Also, the battle interactions 
 are much more realistic than Rome Total War. Such improvements take computer resources, but they 
 are worth it!
  
  I was confused as to why there are only five playable factions in the Grand Campaign. I could not 
 find reasons for this either in-game or in the manual. I discovered on the Total War website that 
 other factions are unlocked by winning the Grand Campaign. Part of me would like to have all factions 
 useable from the beginning, whilst another part of me would like to earn the privelege of playing 
 the locked factions - so I am undecided whether the limited faction choice is a good or bad thing. 
 I am a little annoyed this was not explained in the game or manual and I had to hunt for an answer 
 online (if it is explained in game or manual, somehow I missed it, which may mean the developers/publishers 
 need to think more clearly about advertising such important information in the distributed material) . 
 I know there are cheats to unlock the factions, but for the moment I am enjoying the challenge 
 of earning the unlock.
  
  Overall, this is a very good game. It has great gameplay and graphics. It has replay worth too 
 - because you can replay with different factions and on higher difficulty setting to really test 
 your mettle. Other reviews mention the odd bug - and I don't doubt there are bugs in the game - 
 but I have not noticed any yet. Bugs seem to be very few and far between in this game. I certainly 
 have not experienced any crashes.
  
  It does not seem to be a huge jump from Rome Total War, but the graphics and animations are definitely 
 better. Also, I did not enjoy RTW as much as I am enjoying this game. I cannot quite work out why 
 - the improved graphics have something to do with it, but also I am more of a fan of medieval times 
 so perhaps that is why. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Manbot_AMP
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 28, 2006 9:18 pm PT
Review:  The latest Total war release has highered the standard of turn-based straterdy. Medieval 2: total 
 war (M2: TW) consist of cuning stratergy, spectacular battles composed of thousands of different 
 individuals with their own skills. The total war sereis has always relied on the campaign map. 
 this is were provinces are conqured, settlement s are managed and were religion is preaced. it 
 consist of numerous faction all battling for world domination. Players must also take care of religion 
 and cope with the popes need and wants. The campaing covers America, Europe and the middle east, 
 it spend for 450 years, from the discovery of gunpower to the Americas and the Aztects.
  
  The part which beats the competition is during battles. players may decide to Auto-resolve a battle 
 where result just come up, but they may also decide to take it to the fields where the player tkaes 
 control of his soldiers and leads them to their fate, this can be very amazing to watch as thousands 
 of soldiers battle it out. this option may also come in handy when the odds are againts the player, 
 and only stratergy can change them.
  
  Like all game Medieval2: Total War has some bugs. it can range from techniquel problems during 
 instalation and play or some minor like unit flags and unit card However these are VERY rare and 
 has a minor disruption to the game.
  
  M2: TW is a must for all stratergy lovers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jliebel
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 28, 2006 9:07 pm PT
Review:  This game is a great game, it brings alot of aspects from MTW and RTW together, it takes the battles 
 and the world from RTW and adds in the religion from MTW. It also brings in a new merchanting system 
 which seems to be at best just something else to do no real benefit from it.
  
  The game is beautiful, though it does tax alittle on the system so if you have a low end system 
 this game is probably out of your league. That said watching the large battles that unfold in this 
 game is amazing, who doesn't like watching two large armies crash? Can't really say more then that 
 this is basically just a RTW and a MTW combined together, i am sad to see that they didn't improve 
 the AI like i was hoping it is still very easy even on very hard/very hard.
  
  All in all if you are a fan of the total war series this game will fit nice in your collection. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GodMode
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 28, 2006 8:22 pm PT
Review:  If you've looked at my review for CoH you'll know that im not a biased reviewer and that I judge 
 on what I think. So what do I think you ask?
  
  Well, this game is obviously set in Medieval Times. First off, this game has amazing graphics.
 
  
  The graphics in this game are simply gorgeous. I mean they don't really stand up to Company Of 
 Heroes, but that, is a hard mark to even match. Anyways, this game is rich when it comes to the 
 detail of your units, and most of the terrain. The only terrain that may need tweaking are the 
 trees and shrubs. But, everything else seems to be A-OK with me.
  
  Now the sound is pretty decent. The rumble of the calvary charging is one of the coolest things 
 to be heard in this game, while the marching of your men comes in a close second. All the hacking 
 and slashing sound bytes and tid bits are all there. Nothing below average here.
  
  This game played pretty well. I had one REALLY BIG problem with it though. Whenever I seemed to 
 get into a siege my performance jsut went down the tubes and the sieges were rendered unplayable.
 
  
  The steep system requirements are a bit of a hassle for most people as well. Most people will run 
 this game on medium-low settings to probably just straight low. I for one ran it mostly on high.
 
  
  Now when it comes to replayability this is where the game takes it's plunge. I mean yes, the grand 
 campaign is well-planned and executed. But, the battles seem to become old and drab as time rolls 
 on. You jsut keep playing battle after battle, and they all seem to take the same course. Archers 
 fire arrows-&gt; Horsemen flank-&gt; Infantry takes the brunt of the blow-&gt; The End. This game 
 is overall a good piece of software. It's just not something I would pay $50 to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperDog75
Rating: 6.8
Date: Nov 28, 2006 5:53 pm PT
Review:  I own every other total war game, I just really like the series. Every game released has been well 
 developed and graphically appealing. Rome Total War was number one in my book, and I enjoy the 
 Total Realism Mod for the historical accuracy. Not only is this game very fun, it will run very 
 well on most computers and still look good ( stupid grass) . I wish this was the same case with 
 Medieval 2 Toal War. The graphics looked amazing, and the new combat engine also caught my eye. 
 I immeadiately got my hands on a copy, believing I could downgrade the graphics if they caused 
 the game to run slowly. As soon as it was installed everything before the main game ran well, all 
 of the intro movies and stuff. I made the graphics go as low as possible, to ensure good gameplay. 
 I was more or less disgusted that the campaign map ran slowly, but I shrugged off the notion that 
 it could be graphics, as a later patch could solve this problem. It was after I entered into my 
 first battle that I was completely pissed off. Even on the lowest settings, it ran sluggishly. The 
 units looked like crap and it still ran slowly. I have the minimum system requirements for the 
 game, and it runs poorly. I recommend to anyone who wishes to buy the game , to have a performance 
 laptop, or a good desktop graphics card, because anything else just wont do. The Total War Series 
 has entertained me for years, and I do hope a series of patches will come to fix all of these issues. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wolf67r
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 8, 2006 8:20 am PT
Review:  I enjoy playing this game and would recommend it if asked, but there are some things Creative Assembly 
 needs to tweak to make this game truly great. First, the cavalry units seem to have a weird bug 
 when they are charging. They stop sometimes and turn around for no apparent reason allowing the 
 enemy troops they should have crushed in the charge slaughter them instead. Second, armies are 
 still stupid enough to just stand there and take volley after volley of arrows without trying to 
 seek cover or charging to end the rain . Naval battles are still an annoying feature. Not because 
 I hate naval warfare, but because of the exact opposite. I want to be able to at least watch the 
 battle and I want it to be more than a he has more men than me so I lost affair. They are uninspired. 
 I for one would love to watch an English fleet crush a Spanish armada like history tells us or 
 even be able to control such a thing. Merchants are a complete waste of time since they always 
 get bought out regardless of their rank and never seem to earn enough to even pay for themselves. 
 Lastly, the game is very easy unless you crank up the difficulty. This is great for beginners, 
 but leaves veteran players with a somewhat unfulfilled feeling.
  
  That said, the game is good in most other respects and still has the great battles that we have 
 all grown to love so much. It is as addictive as it's predecessors and will more than likely consume 
 hours if not days of your life. If you like the series then it is definitely worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KLN2002
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 28, 2006 10:17 am PT
Review:  I've found that Medieval 2 is a very enjoyable game for those that are both new to the Total War 
 games, and the Seasoned Veterans. This is my second Total War game, my first being Rome. With that 
 background I see marginal improvements over the previous game, but Overall Medieval 2 is a very 
 enjoyable game. Medieval 2 defiantly has some improved graphics over its predecessor, but it requires 
 a beefy system to experience all its glory in large skirmish battles. The lighting effects and 
 shadows cast by the NPCs all look more refined and polished over those seen in the Rome game. But 
 overall the game has a very similar look and feel of Rome Total War, during the Campaign map and 
 in the 3D real-time battles.
  
  My main disappointment with Medieval 2 is that the Calvary units do not see as strong against infantry 
 as they where in the Rome game. But over all if you liked the Previous Total War Games, there should 
 be very little stopping you from picking this one up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hampton2003
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 28, 2006 12:18 am PT
Review:  The Good: pope and religion really affect the game, improved ai (in battles and on the main map) , 
 great visuals/sound, new features (cities or castles etc.) as well as some returning favorites (loyalty, 
 etc.) , vastly improved diplomacy. weather during battles are especially cool.
  
  The Bad: naval battles are still not in real time, mulitplayer lacks campiagn mode, you need to 
 play the game on hard and up to recieve an aceptable chalenge.
  
  ive been playing the total war series since the first medieval total war, and this game in comparision 
 is totally the best in the series, better than rome, although romes setting is still cool. the 
 game starts you out with a handful of playable factions, all of which are christian/catholic or 
 whatever.... and these include england, france, germany, spain, etc. and once you complete the 
 campaign once you unlock all the other factions, alot of which are the opposite religion of christians. 
 Roster of the unlocked factions are the egyptians, moors (which in the original medieval had a different 
 name but these guy are still the same) , bryzilanties, russians, poland, holand, danish, turks, 
 islam, milan (which is italians, with new name?) , venice, sicilians, portugal, and scotland (which 
 was not aviable in the original game-they were rebels. factions that are not aviable are the papal 
 states, monguls, and the aztecs, and the monguls and aztecs are only avaible later on in the campaign 
 game, monguls come first and then the aztecs.
  
  religion really is important now, it can help the moral of a city or castle by having a priest 
 present (catholic) , and the pope really watches what you do, and wont be passive. if you continue 
 to attack you catholic neighbors then you will recieve notices of your level of favor with the 
 pope, which can rise as drop all it takes is time. crusades are called and you are asked to join 
 but you dont have to, resulting in losing favor with the pope, and or being excomunicated (but only 
 if he really hates you already) . no longer will a crusade army run through your lands and steal 
 20 or so men from each unit you have, like it did in the first medieval TW. if your not a catholic 
 faction then no worrys about the pope except as an enemy.
  
  diplomacy is totally better now. per turn you can have one of your diplomats talk to a charaters 
 and set up deals, and each of your diplomats can only talk to a single character per turn, unlike 
 in previous games where you could demand the same thing over and over from the same guy and then 
 he finally settled for something. and you can only ask someone something twice and if they sya 
 no twice they will end negotiations for that turn until next time. for example you cant demand 
 for map info/money over and over, it wont work anymore. and depending on what you ask for or demand 
 will afect the countries feeling toward you, if you ask to be allies and trade rights, they will 
 be very happy and see you as a good friend, and maybe you can ask for their map info, but usually 
 you should offer your map info to to have them accept, and they may accept, but it will tell you 
 how happy they are for each thing asked or discussed. so different kinds a happy and diff kinds 
 of refusal. really smart diplomatic system, and it provide you with alot of info on your relations 
 with the other country, as well as wealth, power, and reputation. your reputation is the longest 
 changing thing, for example i usually play nice with my neighbors for a little bit and it shows 
 me my reputation is reliable, with the ally that just attacked and betrayed me had their reputation 
 change from what ever it was to dubious or something. and this affects negotiations, etc.... Your 
 standings with the other factions will pop up every so often showing you how things are going between 
 you and some nation, things like war, and bad diplomatic talks affect this. even a third party 
 nation can start to dislike by lets say if you attack their ally.
  
  ai: the ai is much improved on the HARDER difficulty settings, no longer will the enemy send small 
 armies at you (although they still do, just rarely) , they usually send a force equal to that of 
 the target, such as you army size or garrison size. although that doesnt mean they wont send a 
 huge army once they have it. but the enemy now has huge armies throughout their territories so 
 their not push overs anymore. enemies armies are more balanced now, and dont specialize in any 
 one type of unit. The enemy now longer plays chicken (im talking about when they used to run at 
 your troops and then just before clashing they'd run away) , they 'll flank you if your not carefull, 
 etc. although they still do just stand there and take arrow fire up the ***, but since most enemy 
 armies you encounter will include archer units, your own units will at least recieve some return 
 fire. the enemy attacks you where your weakest.
  
  the graphics are better, especially the weather during battles, and the sound really makes the 
 expierence really better, its really intense to turn up the speakers and listen to the rain fall 
 and the thunder as you army marches toward the enemy, you can even hear the rain hitting the metal 
 armor! and the rain and snow effects look really good, best so far in this series.
  
  cities and castles really make you think about your placment of each, cities produce militia units, 
 which includes foot soldiers, archers, horsemen, etc. but castles are your real army producers, 
 and the best new feature present in this game is the production pool, depending on how big your 
 castle or city is will determine how big your pool is, and the the pool is the number of units 
 you can build per turn, so a medium size castle can produce two to three units per turn, but the 
 number of units you can produce is limited to the number of max reinforcments, for example a barracks (level 
 3 footsoldier structure) can sustain up to four swordsmen, and four spearmen, once you use up these 
 numbers you have to wait a few turns before these numbers replenish themselves. castles make less 
 money than cities but maintain a higher level of happyness ofr the population, so the trade off 
 is deep either way you go.
  
  reurning features like a Generals loyalty are nice to see again, and a rulers authority over his 
 rule affects loaylty, etc. everything else remains mostly the same from rome but a more enhanced 
 version of it.
  
  guilds are a new addition that seek you out not the other way around, and if you want your troops 
 to have better weapons as well as amor then you better biuld lots of foot soldiers in a castle 
 and hop down the line that a swordsmith guild want to set up shop with you. amor is avaible still 
 as a building, swordsmith guilds are a hot item, and they wont pop up just anywhere, you have to 
 do things that favor the type of guild. once you have a guild in one of you cities/castles they 
 may be pleased with your dedication to their tastes and offer to level up your guild, for a price 
 of course. and guild come in only 3 levels, and there can only be one level 3 of each guild throughout 
 the entire world, so someones got to have the level 3 sworsmith and only at that city/castle can 
 have the best equiped soldiers come out.
  
  missions: come in all shapes and sizes, such as blocade this port to seize this town, to start 
 diplomacy with these people, build this, train that. and missions come from your own cousel of 
 nobles, guilds, the pope, other nations (such as a heir requesting you to kill his king so he can 
 rise to power) . and every mission has either a reward and or a penalty for completing or failing 
 it. this game runs great with my system at these specs: (medium high settings)
  
  nvidia 6800 pci express 256mb video card
  1 gig of ram
  3 ghz proces pent 4
  
  overall 
 this game is the best in the series, and if you like the previous games you'll love this one, and 
 if your new to it all then your in for a real treat, its well worth the money. thanks for reading...-hampont2003 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThornFalconeye
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 21, 2007 9:23 am PT
Review:  I started my first campaign of Medieval playing as the English, my faction of choice from the original 
 Medieval on medium/medium. My first 10 turns or so were satisfying, as I was taking over all of 
 the British isles, and at war with the scottish. After I easily pounced upon the one scottish settlement, 
 I found the next 60 turns to be a bore: trying to declare war on France without angering too many 
 other people. But that diddnt really work out too well, as france seemed to have heavily fortified 
 castles bordering my territory, so I quit out of boredom. Played a couple of custom battles, sieges, 
 and historical Battles. Then i edited the Desc. strat to uock all the factions, and started as Milan 
 on hard/hard. The entire 300 turn campaign I played with them was wonderful: I had 30 turns of 
 peace with the neighboring factions, then spent the rest of the campaing trying to hold off the 
 Holy Roman Empire, Danes, and the Venitians: all while carrying out a successful crusade to Antioc. 
 The joy of being surrounded, then slowly triumphing is what really makes this game great.
  
  as for the battles:
  the sieges are good, but not that good. The most fun battles are played 
 out on open field in midday. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tonymolet
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 27, 2006 1:46 pm PT
Review:  I own and love all the Total War games (including several expansion packs) , especially Rome: Total 
 War, which I thought was the series high-water mark. So it should come as no surprise that when 
 Medieval 2 came out, it was a must buy. I have now had some significant play time on the game and 
 can now give a well founded opinion on it. First, Medieval 2 is a great game, it will suck you 
 right in for hours at a time if you are not careful. The graphics definitely add a lot to the game, 
 immersing you further into the game world. However, the combat isn't as fun as that of Rome's. 
 I am not completely sure why that is, though the relative weakness of cavalry compared to Rome 
 may be one reason. Overall combat in Rome was more appealing. In Rome, I would actually take the 
 time to fight nearly every battle: with Medieval 2, I would most let the computer automatically 
 determine the results and would only fight the most important battles. This is not to say that 
 battles in Medieval 2 aren't fun, they are, just not as compelling. Another issue that I have with 
 Medieval is some of the useless complexity added to the game. For example, you now have to worry 
 about building merchants to gain extra sources of income, an added layer of complexity that adds 
 very little to overall strategic dept and enjoyment of the game. Despite these issues, Medieval 
 2 is a great game that youll end up playing for years. It is definitely worth buying for any strategy 
 fan or fan of the series. Now if they will only make a sequel to Shogun! As a side note, Medieval 
 2 does require a fairly beefy machine to run at moderate (1280-1024) - high resolutions (1600x1200) 
 with all the graphic candy enabled. If your computer struggled to play Rome, then it will definitely 
 struggle to play this and you may want to seriously consider and upgrade. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spaceong
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 27, 2006 9:12 am PT
Review:  It is a very good game. Just some areas that can be improved. Generals die easily killed by inquisitors. 
 Money not enough. No of turns can be longer or stated by gamer who may wish to fight till the end. 
 Merchants lost too easily, the income is not enough to cover the cost of merchant . No time to 
 explore further and the game ended.
  
  Hopefully some patch can be created to solve these problems to make it better. so that it derserves 
 a 10.
  
  It seems that the total number of troops the battle field can control is only about 4000. not ten 
 thousands. If this can be improved in future total war games. it will be good. Reinforcements delayed 
 due to over quota of troops.
  If a patch can improve this it will be nice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KellyMc26
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 2, 2007 8:42 am PT
Review:  NOTE 2 (Jan. 2, 2007) : Having played a LOT more now, I can say even on the Hard Level that the 
 AI seems to lack a coordinated sense of purpose. This is true for individual nations as well as 
 for the nations as a whole in terms of joining forces for a common goal, etc. As with most games 
 in this genre, it therefore becomes a relatively simple matter to wage 1v1 wars of your choosing 
 as you slog to the end game. Now, the slog in MED2 is still far more enjoyable than the slog in 
 other games, but I'd just like to underscore my note below that there is yet a great deal more 
 work to be done before the AI reaches its potential. However, because the game has so much promise 
 as-is, it's still a great buy, even if you choose to wait for more patching and x-packs first.
 
  
  NOTE: I have just read some of the criticisms of the AI, and there is some merit in the arguments. 
 For example, enemy armies will sometimes just sit there and be wasted by ranged units when they 
 have no ranged units of their own... this seems to happen most often when you sally from behind 
 your fortifications when under siege. Also, the diplomacy mechanisms, unlike the rest of the game, 
 don't always lend themselves to making sense. Alliances, for example, can be tossed away by the 
 AI even when this seems like a bad strategic move. However, while some reviewers have given really 
 low scores because of these issues, I think they are easily fixed... and they don't *always* happen... though 
 they do happen often enough and definitely need patching.
  
  First off, if you've played the previous titles to death and are looking for something completely 
 new, this isn't the game for you. Of course, why look for something completely new when the previous 
 titles were so good to begin with? That's a philosophical debate I'd best leave alone, so here's 
 the essence of the game as I see it:
  
  Trade offs.
  
  Where many strategy games (even the very good Civilization 4) have a fairly simple tipping point 
 where after economies of scale mean you're so far ahead that winning is a foredrawn conclusion, 
 MED2 tries in numerous ways to limit (or challenge) the player's ability to do everything in a 
 turn or even series of turns. Some examples of this come with the fact (a default game option, 
 actually) that you cannot micro-manage your cities/castles unless a general is present. While it's 
 tempting to turn off this feature, its impacts are important. It's no longer a no-brainer to riddle 
 the field with generals, as some of them would best be left at home to tend to the store, so to 
 speak. Here, too, MED2 provides wonderfully rich data to mine in making such decisions -- for example, 
 some generals are horrible leaders and potentially disloyal, but this same general might also be 
 good at boosting the local economy. Perfect candidate for staying home, that guy! Heck, you can 
 even play match-maker and marry specific generals with specific traits to specific princesses in 
 hope of creating just the off-spring you'd like leading your faction several turns down the line!
 
  
  Unlike Civ4, of course, you can't just plop down cities at will. The map is historical, meaning 
 any cities you add to the empire must be forcibly taken, and your empire's land mass can only come 
 with increasing your troop levels. This is an important trade off that requires balance. It's quite 
 easy in MED2 to be running thin on cash if you're not carefully planning your phases of peaceful 
 building and aggressive expansion. That isn't to say this hard to do necessarily but just that 
 it actually requires a level of strategic thinking that sometimes lacks in this genre.
  
  Speaking of peaceful building, upgrades are EXPENSIVE (a good thing, IMO) . Where it's quite easy 
 in most games simply to click here or there to get that fortress in quick order, in MED2, you'd 
 do well to think a few minutes before deciding which city to upgrade and how. That city on your 
 frontier sure could use better (but expensive) defenses... then again, the capitol could become 
 a merchant's paradise with its own upgrade. What to do? Well, you can't always (rarely, actually) 
 do all these things in a single turn, so you have to prioritize. Assess your needs. Even troops 
 don't just magically heal - you PAY to replace fallen comrades, so it's best to use them all wisely 
 lest your mistakes bankrupt you.
  
  Cities, too, can also be converted to castles... and vice versa. As you might expect, these are 
 quite different things. A city is better at economy while a castle is better at defense. Each has 
 its unique troops and buildings, too, so this becomes an important choice to make. By the way, 
 converting from one to the other is costly and wipes out certain buildings, so this choice is another 
 great trade off. Along the way, the Pope (or other in-game scripts) will challenge you to do (or 
 not do!) something. Does the request match with your strategy at the moment? If not, is it better 
 to ignore the request? You might be excommunicated, though, or lose out on some free units or cash. 
 While these moments are clearly somewhat artificial and forced in nature, they also infuse the 
 game with some much-needed urgency and yet another layer of strategic thinking.
  
  You'll notice I haven't even mentioned the EXCELLENT real-time battles to be had! I can't recall 
 any other game that manages so much strategic thinking on the main map level before you even get 
 to the issue of actually fighting. Here, too, planning and execution have precisely the kinds of 
 effects that you'd hope they'd have -- having spears ready to take on a cavalry assault actually 
 works. But this is no simple rock-papers-scissors affair that has been done to death elsewhere. 
 There is also morale (affected by such things as flank attacks and having a good leader nearby) , 
 honest-to-goodness terrain-related effects (like elevation) , spectacular sieges against beautifully 
 rendered fortifications, etc.
  
  Here, too, trade offs come into play: Do you sacrifice your spearmen in a brazen assault on the 
 opposing King's bodyguards (and hope to ruin the enemy's morale by hopefully killing their king) ? 
 Or do you sit patiently and let your ranged weapons ... you did bring some, right? ... wear down 
 their forces first? Of course, you might also be getting pelted with arrows, so do you charge in 
 with your own cavalry and try to rout their ranged weapons? Etc. All of this can be paused and 
 planned meticulously. In a nutshell, the outcome is only as good as your strategic ability.
  
  For those who don't like so many restrictions and so much planning (hey, there's nothing wrong 
 with wanting something more light-hearted!) , I'd say to stay away from MED2. Rushing through turns 
 and battles will only leave you underwhelmed by the mechanics and the possibilities of what's on 
 offer. However, if you relish the balance between guns and butter, this is your game. If you take 
 great pleasure in watching your Grand Plans unfold in ways that make methodical, strategic sense: 
 Then get this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: willcaff
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 27, 2006 7:52 am PT
Review:  The newest of the total war series does a great job of maintaining the old total war series will 
 still incoporating new and interesting features. Although the campaign map does look very similiar 
 to Rome, the new agents and diplomatic system. With the new features and great in game graphics 
 this makes this game one of the best in the series. A longer learning curve due to all the new 
 features in the campaign makes this a truly wonderfull game. A stiring sound track also makes the 
 game fun to listen to with cool vocals too. The real time battles that really mkae the total war 
 series are still amazing, with hundreds of units each with their own pros and cons it is great, 
 also assulting castles is great, even if your attacking a city with a wooden fence a lot more variety 
 than in Rome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: G_King_III
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 27, 2006 1:11 am PT
Review:  This game is surely the best in the Total War series to date . And i just cant understand those 
 people rating it below 9.0 and let alone those rating it with 4.2 , 6.7 and other scores .Maybe 
 those people don't know anything about strategy games or they just got anything personal against 
 CA !??!
  
  Now to the features of the game . The most improved area for me is without doubt diplomacy . The 
 new features of diplomacy such as relationship with another faction lets you know exactly what 
 to expect from another faction. For example you have a so-so relationship or maybe a reasonable 
 relationship all that depends on your dealing with that faction . Other things include reputation 
 which is very cool feature ,so at the beginning almost every faction has a mixed reputation but 
 you can become untrustworthy if you betray your ally , in affect your reputation will help you 
 or hinder you making future deals (no one wants to make a alliance with an untrustworthy faction 
 and so on ) . In general diplomacy is much more complex thus making the game more addictive and 
 fun to play .
  And what can you say about the battles the didn't need a big change but there are some minor changes 
 from Rome Total War such as soldiers not looking like clones anymore , now you have a different 
 number of faces , armour , shields and so , in the same unit type .
  The sounds is as thrilling as it has always been in Total War games great music , cool localization 
 of factions . The music really makes you feel you are in a medieval period.
  
  For any Total War fan this game is a must buy and im sure you won't be disappointed . Anyone who 
 expect a Total War game to change too much and suddenly become an FPS action game is wrong and 
 doesn't know what to expect . Medieval 2 : Total War is the Neil Armstrong of strategy games reaching 
 new highs before anyone else . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Galamode
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 26, 2006 8:34 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay 10/10
  -Simply put this is still Total War we know and love, with the epic battles and almost Civ like 
 campain, yeah, its good, somethings are new and spiffy, but take time to get accostomed too. Religion 
 is something I underestimated, and it took me a few bad 'warm up campain' tries to understand whats 
 going on, if you have foriegners (not catholics) spreading the word of allah or etc, they start 
 converting your people, and then get pissed off because theyre muslim, simply enough.
  
  graphics 9/10
  -They look amazing, I cant quite turn on all the bells and whistles (high shadow 
 effects and etc.) with my new comp (7600XTX gcard) but even still it looks wonderful and im packing 
 30-60 FPS
  
  sound 8/10
  -the music scores are on or off, overall nice though, after 2 hours or so off total war music though 
 i tend to put on my own flavour of tunes, but at least theyres no roman guy screaming 'ALL ROME 
 WILL BE AMAZED AT SUCH A VICTORY!' when you win a battle
  
  Value 10/10
  -been playing ~30 hours and just getting started, these are some of the most addictive games ever 
 made 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eveningsky_eric
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 26, 2006 5:58 pm PT
Review:  I'm sure you've read all the other reviews and don't really want me to regurgitate all of it back 
 out, so I'll keep this short and simple.
  
  Basically, this game takes Rome and improves everything. If you are a veteran of Rome, then you 
 can just sit down and start playing this game without any tutorials or manuals to go through, and 
 no patches- which is a great thing in and of itself. Rome had... what? Four patches? This game 
 is good to go right from the start. Everyone say a collective 'Yay.'
  
  In terms of the real time battles, little is changed, though I imagine you've heard of the improvements 
 in the graphics department.
  One thing really sticks out to me, though. It kind of bothered me how in Rome units would swing 
 swords in the air and never really contacted the enemy. Just swing in your foe's general direction 
 and they die. Not so in Medieval 2. Swords hit swords, shields block blows, and it's not uncommon 
 to see one of your men skewer another soldier foolish enough to engage him. Battles are basically 
 butt loads of sweet duels between individuals, Braveheart style. Good stuff.
  
  All in all, this game is well worth your money and time. Don't forget to get some fresh air though. 
 And a good night's sleep. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cat_empire
Rating: 6.3
Date: Nov 26, 2006 5:40 pm PT
Review:  so when i first started playing MTW2 i was so excited and happy, the game was completely awesome. 
 but since then after the initial excitement wore off, i have beee able to look and the game and 
 say that im actually kind of dissapointed with it for a number of reasons
  
  the first is the whole thing where you now have a much smaller time limit to finish the game in. 
 WTF is with that? and why is it compulsory! I know im not to great at RTS games, but when i finished 
 RTW i was like 350 turns into it, and to have a limit of 220 turns or something to take 45 settlements 
 in for me is just rediculous and for me takes alot of the fun out of the game. i cant just work 
 away at it at my own pace, i have to go at this pace which for me takes the fun out of it
  
  I'm also not a fan of this whole new religion system. I want to be able to (if im england) 
 beat the s**t out of france without having the pope excommunicate me and have all my armies and 
 settlements rebel as a result. I dont want to have to travel to the other side of the map to try 
 and expand my kingdom, only to have someone else attack me back at home, which is apparently ok 
 with the pope.
  
  im sick of the bugs! for instance, units, particularly cavalry units not responding to orders to 
 withdraw or attack in battle. It is so infuriating to have a whole carefully planned battle fall 
 apart around me just because my cavalry wont charge, or pull out of a charge just before they hit 
 to draw there swords and slowly walk in. And it pissed me off something shocking when i joined 
 a crusade and jumped my crusade army in a boat, only to have half my army walk out on me, in the 
 middle of the freakin ocean, because i wasnt making enough progress with the crusade, when clearly 
 my boat was moving towards jeruselum quit clearly.
  
  im also not a fan of how the time goes by in 2 yr time periods rather than 6 months as in rome. 
 cuz of this cities need to upgrade themselves way to quickly for my finances to be able to keep 
 up with.
  
  what im finding as i play the game is that im quickly running out of time to take 45 settlements, 
 that i cant attack anyone nearby to take settlements because the pope goes into fits if i do, that 
 i cant have any decent sized armies because i cant take any new settlements, and if i do raise 
 a decent sized army my treasury starts to lose money.
  
  im eagerly awaiting some mods that will hopefully adress some of these issues, but i think for 
 now in the mean time im gonna go back to RTW. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reliantk81
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 26, 2006 12:24 pm PT
Review:  First of all after getting NWN2 and BF 2142 just the fact this game isn't in dire need of a patch 
 when it first came out is a huge plus. What can I say I loved Rome: total war and this game just 
 builds on that tried and true formula and you get another amazing game from the creative assembly.
 
  
  The Good: Amazing graphical detail just watching your army standing in the field with the sun gleaming 
 off their armor before the charge or watching catapults firing flaming rocks in the dead of night 
 adds to the huge battles in the game. The Ai is greatly improved in Rome the units fought like 
 paper rock and scissors with spear beating horse, infantry beating spear, etc.... I charge my calvary 
 right into a blob of infantry first time I played and soon I was without calvalry. Now a lot of 
 infantry units are strong enough to defeat calvalry just by standing still. Also seige units have 
 different accuracies so a trebuchet may miss 50% of the time but late age cannons are deadly accurate. 
 The campaings are so detailed most of the fun is generated by all the things you can do other than 
 battles between armies and if your more of a casual general you can select a short campaign.
  
  The bad: well since it would be boring waiting 30 minutes in the grand campaign for another 
 player to fight any battles during his/her turn you can only fight custom battles via multiplayer 
 and not the campaign. I wish campaign mode had been an option but I can see why it just wouldn't 
 work. Well that's it I really haven't found anything I dislike about this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlexChec
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 26, 2006 10:46 am PT
Review:  This review assumes the reader has basic familiarity with the Total War series.
  
  What makes Medieval 2: Total War both as good as and vastly different (and great but not superb 
 ) from other titles in the series are the little things the designers did to bring home this installment.
 
  
  The first thing one notices is the beauty of the world in which you play. Although the colors aren't 
 as apparently rich as in Rome: Total War, but the dulled appearance fits in well with the Medieval 
 theme of the game. On the tactical map, however, the battlefields on which you will command your 
 armies are sights to behold. You'll almost feel bad for covering the grasses and flowers of European 
 battlefields with your and your enemy's dead (well, maybe not so much your enemy's) . Even on the 
 lower settings, the tactical maps are very well done.
  
  The battles themselves can be quite epic, assuming your machine is high-powered enough to run it 
 (my machine starts to lag when there are 3,000 or more units on a map, and becomes viciously slow 
 when there are in excess of 6,000) ; a city or fortress siege in particular can be an awesome thing 
 to behold. And while it's true that the clone armies of the earlier games are gone, there's still 
 enough repetition in the ranks to make you say, Wait a minute, I've seen you before. 
  
  But unit repetitiveness aside, a great visual aspect of the soldiers is the graphic representation 
 of damage. After enough blows from swords and arrow punctures, a unit will drop to the ground as 
 a blood-soaked mess; and you can quickly get a sense of just how much of a battle your units have 
 suffered by looking at the multitude of wounds your soldiers are sporting.
  
  The soundtrack, too, while boasting a great variety of well produced scores which capture the theme 
 of the game very well, also manages to become repetitive after a while. The sound effects are otherwise 
 standard, which is a shame given the great production quality of the music behind the battles.
 
  
  All together, the variety and rendering of the units, battlefields, and the sound effects make 
 the battle experience something that you dont want to miss  and given how long battles can last 
 with no time limit, this will take up most of your time in the game (yes, theres the auto resolve 
 option, but why pass up a chance to show off your tactical prowess?) .
  
  Im somewhat ambivalent about the merchant unit. Useful on the one hand (increased income, merchants 
 guilds to reduce the costs of building) but a burden to keep track of on the other  especially 
 when a wily, foreign merchant makes his way into your territory and begins buying out your guys 
 assets!
  
  For those initiated into the Total War series, learning the basics will not take long. What takes 
 more time to get the hang of - particularly if you're a Catholic faction, which you will be in 
 your first campaign game - is the larger role diplomacy plays in the game, specifically when it 
 comes time to elect a new pope. Balancing alliances while not getting the pope on your bad side 
 takes some time to learn, and very little will frustrate you more than the pope's threat to excommunicate 
 your faction if you continue to wage war on an enemy when you're on the verge of ultimate victory.
 
  
  A change Ive particularly enjoyed is how the unit queue works. As a city or castle expands, more 
 units can be recruited in the span of one turn, so long as theres the manpower available to recruit 
 that unit. This system allows for both large armies to come to your calling within a turn while 
 forcing you to diversify your armies for the greatest possible impact.
  
  One of the flaws of the game which can detract from gameplay is the AI. Often in close quarters 
 (like a siege) , units will fail to engage each other, or if you order a mass of units to attack 
 a unit, even with plenty of room to maneuver they might sit back and let one unit do all the work. 
 The pope also makes little distinction between aggressor and defender when handing down warnings 
 of excommunication; if youre beating back an enemy which attacked you first, youre just as liable 
 to get a warning as the other faction.
  
  Youll also find that chasing down heretics, witches and rebels becomes tiresome after too long; 
 when youve got an army on the march, having to divert resources to tend to the smaller tasks back 
 at home can seem more like a chore than integral element of the game.
  
  Flaws aside, the game itself provides an immersive, easily addictive experience that is not to 
 be missed for fans of either the Total War series or strategy games in general. A standout game 
 in a standout series.
  
  ~*~*~*~
  
  Reviewers system specs:
  
  Toshiba Satellite P105-S921: 1.83 GHz processor speed (Centrino Duo) , 1 GB RAM, NVIDIA GeForce 
 Go 7900 GS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thekiller_in_me
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 26, 2006 9:14 am PT
Review:  Over time i've played many strategy games, and all i've enjoyed quite a bit, but this..... this 
 is a game that to me revolutionises the strategy game world. It totally brings it to a new level. 
 The graphics, the gameplay, the sound all come together to give you an absolutely jaw dropping 
 gaming experience. The one thing i love that they improved in M2TW is the fact that units all look 
 different whether its their facial appearance or their uniforms in battle. A job well done by CA. 
 As well as the units, it seems as if the fighting has gotten better. The units dont stop fighting 
 and take pauses but just keep fighting. AWESOME!! Overall i cant say that this game is absolutely 
 perfect but mighty close to it. The only things i can say that are bad about this game is your 
 all gonna need some darn good video cards to run it. Luckily im one of those people who has a good 
 one. Awesome game, haven't played one thats better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woolston
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 26, 2006 5:35 am PT
Review:  Medieval 2: Total War is even better than Rome: Total War. It offers a depth of strategy i have never 
 seen before. The usual features such as building huge armies ,taking enemy settlements, Maintaining 
 your economy and using spies and assassins against enemies are still huge fun. The new features 
 add even more depth to the gameplay. The Papal States is one of the best new features. For a while 
 they seem annoying but after a while they become useful. For example you can get one of yuor priests 
 elected as pope and use this power to yuor advantage. Other new features such as merchants are also 
 useful when used in the right way.
  
  The battles themselves are spectacular, running smoothly and providing players with new tactical 
 options such as capturing prisoners. Graphically the game is amazing and the battlefields are well 
 realised. The musical score is brilliant, once again enhancing the battle experience. Some old features 
 from earlier games make a welcome return such as assassination and marriage videos.
  
  The best thing about the game is how well it realises Medieval europe .You actually get the sense 
 you are a general in Medival times as you command vast armies, secure trade deals and alliances, sabotage 
 enemy efforts and control public order. Overall this game is an amazing example of what can be done 
 to advance strategy games 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hellscaptain
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 25, 2006 10:56 am PT
Review:  A good upgrade! I love the battles better then the first game. They are a little more upgraded. 
 Still a little disappointed with the hand gunner units as they do not always perform like they 
 should. Amazing to watch how gun powder has changed the face of battle. I would like to either 
 have less naval battle or actually be able to take part in the battle other then let the computer 
 figure it out. Love the flame arrows mostly just the looks of them flying through the air is just 
 totally awesome looking. I think the next project for total war should be a american civil war 
 game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2reddy
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 25, 2006 6:42 am PT
Review:  First of all I want to thank to Creative Assemby for this great war game. What they did with this 
 game is great. There are some flaws, but every creation have some flaws; and there can't be a flawless 
 production. In this game, we have no clone troops. Every soldier is different from eachother, and 
 that makes the battlefield more colorful . Every unit battles with the enemy in front of him, if 
 there is no enemy in front of him, he runs to an enemy, just like in the movies. When 2 charging 
 armies impact, the view so real and good; that I have lost many battles because of just watching 
 . Now units hit eachother and we can see the effects of that hit, they block, hit and die, in a 
 way it should be really. It's like viewing a historic-movie.
  
  I didn't like the world map of Rome: Total War and I didn't like this games map. Yes, it is just 
 like the classic game Lords of the Realm. But the oldschool style Total War was better in my opinion. 
 As an good improvement, but lowering the reality factor, units produced in a city doesn't need 
 population, so newly conquered small cities can produce troops. Heretics, priests and assasins 
 skill system seemed not so good to me, and the merchants are not useful. The money they produced 
 is so low, that you may finish the game without having one. On the other hand, AI sends merchants 
 all the time to seize your merchants assests. If you are not in a island (Britain) you constantly 
 lose your merchants assests. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kalasas
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 24, 2006 6:56 pm PT
Review:  its like total war... (the roman game..) mixed in with the expansion.... with added features.... 
 and a world sized map.... set in the future a litle ways.. and then POOF you got it, this game 
 is a MUST BUY!! or at least give it a try.. get a friend to buy and and try it, ull get it if your 
 PC can handle it.
  
  this is gonna be one of the BEST strategy games of all time..
  
  it deserves a spot with the C&amp; C series.
  
  i would say this game and company of heros are 
 about the same on the gameplay wise, but this game is better in that it is more... progressive.
 
  
  it has great graphics for how many units are on the screen, and the troops diont all look the same 
 anymore,,,
  
  
  oh yes, and there are GUNS!! its a MUST BUY!!
  
  i say try this game, or throw away your PC! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sorenf31
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 24, 2006 6:03 pm PT
Review:  I was a huge fan of Rome... but Medieval 2 makes little to no sense. No matter what faction you 
 take, no matter how hard you try and work on relationships... factions will randomly attack you 
 with zero warning.
  
  I would call it almost stupid. You can be rated as the most powerful nation, richest nation and 
 most advanced nation.... all the sudden with no warning... well before you are even close to winning 
 you are attacked by you allies... YES ALLIES. Even if you have a top notch rating with the pope.
 
  
  The AI makes no sense. Poor programming. Basically no matter what you do the game is designed that 
 multiple factions must attack you.
  
  Nothing compared to Rome... up for trade on Goozex if anyone is interested. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CPatrick
Rating: 5.9
Date: Nov 24, 2006 3:50 pm PT
Review:  I think the graphics are great. The cities and castles look astounding.
  
  Siege warfare is much more challenging than with Rome TW. The computer AI does a pretty good job.
 
  
  BUT, you won't be battling rival factions in the campaign as much as you'll be fighting back rebel 
 armies that were once yours. Send an army out of a town or castle without a general, and there's 
 a very good chance that you'll soon be spending many more turns raising an army to defeat what 
 you spent many turns creating.
  
  The crusades are a joke. Trying to navigate an army to the crusade target through the web of cities 
 and castles, hidden by the fog-of-war, will cost you a unit every time something appears in your 
 way. It's just a waste of 9 units and a general. Crusading computer AI armies don't suffer the 
 same fate. While at war with France, the computer camped a large crusading French army between 
 two of my cities. Attacking this army would cause my faction to be excommunicated by the Pope, 
 who just happened to be from my faction.
  
  Money is tight in this game, and even with taxes at their maximum, you won't be able to stop the 
 rapid influx of people into your cities. It's not long before city population out paces your ability 
 to buy the upgrades needed to keep your population healthy and happy. In a state of unhappiness, 
 all it takes is the infiltration of a foreign spy, or a siege laied by a one unit foreign army 
 to send your city into rebellion and total loss.
  
  I played the living hell out of Rome: Total War, but cannot get more than 70 turns into Medieval 
 2: Total War before I've just had enough of the constant bs. For me, Rome: Total War is going back 
 on my PC, and Medieval 2: Total War is going on eBay. It's just not entertaining. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tiefster
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 23, 2006 9:46 pm PT
Review:  Total War games never cease to get me totally immersed for upwards of six months but Medieval 2 
 has managed to lose me in a little over a week. Don't get me wrong this is a great game but it 
 needs to be more streamlined.
  
  The empire management portion of the game made me frustrated compared to Rome: Total War. Auto-management 
 didn't seem as efficient for cities that I wasn't paying much attention to and if I was looking 
 to focus primarily on my military the auto-managed tax system frequently left me bankrupt despite 
 how many or how few troops I trained per turn.
  
  The graphics are beautiful and battles have never been more entertaining to watch and command. 
 I particularly like the blood effects in the game and the effect it has on armor. Not having 60 
 identical troops in a unit is very pleasing too and actually seeing armor upgrades on your troops 
 is a nice visual bonus. The map is very detailed and pretty and if you zoom in you can see trees 
 swaying.
  
  Battles themselves can be extremly fun or extremly frustrating. Unlike Rome: Total War, many obsolete 
 units cannot handle a few new, armored units and at this point I have seen many of my Spear Militia 
 and Levy Spearmen utterly destroyed by a few units of Dismounted Feudal Knights and Armored Swordsmen. 
 Being the assaulting force of a siege battle can be extremly frustrating in the beginning of the 
 game but as you get ranged siege weapons and cannon it becomes more fun.
  
  Nothing has changed with sea battles.
  
  The Pope is either your best friend or a giant thorn 
 in your side. Expanding your hold on Europe as a Christian nation is hard with the Pope giving 
 Cease Hostilities or be Exocommunicated orders and as England the Pope got on my nerves so much 
 that I conquered the Papal States' territory but I was eventually given an order to give it back.
 
  
  Crusades and Jihads can be fun if you are close to the city that has had a Crusade or Jihad called 
 against it but if you plan on sailing from Denmark to Jerusalem you're better off taking the relationship 
 hit from the Pope as desertion will get so bad that even loyal generals will leave.
  
  Overall its an interesting but frustrating game and I recommend buying it even if you only play 
 it for a litte while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rogeer
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 23, 2006 5:36 pm PT
Review:  the game have improve more and has a very good graphic. there also some new character such merchant, witch 
 and heretic introduces in this game. this make the game more fun n challenging. now, we can use a 
 merchant to seized anonther faction merchant and assassin or diplomat to carry out a special job 
 for us. this make the gamer feel like military action are no the only option to conquer or to destroy 
 the enemy. there also some improve on princess. as we all know, in medieval TW princess only can marry 
 to our own general or anonther faction leader or heir only but now we can marry it to the foreign 
 general. this also make the game become logic and realistic. as a RTS gamer, i feel this game is just 
 like training a gamer to become a leader. i highly recommend this game to who are a RTS gamer like 
 me and i believe u will like it if u try it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: merkene
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 23, 2006 3:05 pm PT
Review:  I am a RTS fan. My favorite games are in this genre ''Age of Empires and Rise of Nations '' .Turn 
 base strategy games I played RISK II and CIV 4. Now this game delivers the pleasure i get from all 
 these games all together. The idea of mixing two type is awesome but It needs alot of improvement. Especially 
 in IA. Some of the annoying things with IAin the game
  -Enemy soldiers stands still most of the time even when you are outnumbered. You can see victories 
 with 60 peasant archers against 600 enemy troops. Becuase they are standing still. They are busy 
 with their formation of course :)
  -Enemy generals die very quickly. Well as a General you dont charge the enemy with your spearmen 
 or peasants, do you ?
  -Alot of pathfinding issues with IA. You can see enemy destroys the gate, puts up the ladders etc 
 and not climbing them or charging through your gates.. One time they all rushed the ladder at the 
 same time (1000 soldiers) and locked up my machine, I started to get 1 fps and ESC didnt work to 
 get out of the game so i had to shut down the comp.
  -MAP mode - you get stupid dice results with your assasins, merchants, priests etc (even with spies) You 
 can see your most experienced merchant lose against a merchant with no experience, best assassins 
 can't kill a stupid princess or your closest to god priest will turn into a heretic against an 
 easiest heretic out there. (Try couple of times you get the result you want ) No logic. So basically 
 alI that experience eyes you have on your characters doesn't mean anything .
  -Ok i admit first time when you hear your chracter talks saying funny **** .it is nice. but after 
 a while it gets really annoying to hear the same thing over and over again. I think they either 
 should have much more options or not have anything at all, I love the idea of mixing RTS games 
 with turn based strategy games. I support that. This game is fun. It could have been much better without 
 all those bugs i mentioned. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fnord_1
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 22, 2006 9:54 pm PT
Review:  I half expected this to simply be just another Total War game which whould play just like Rome, 
 but with better graphics. In some ways that's true, but there are some nice additions to the game 
 which make it worth playing. The addition of an Inquisition, Crusades, Jihad, and slight changes 
 to the interface made for some new things to play with that were not present in the other games. 
 The graphics are better, and they didn't just stop there. having to contend with the Black Plague, 
 the Mongols, and the overhanging spectre of the Catholic Church, not to mention what seems to be 
 trickier AI makes for some great new challenges. It's just as addictive as the previous games, 
 is similar enough to not have much of a learning curve (provided you're familiar with the previous 
 games) , and has just enough new content to make it worth your dollar. When I decided to try it 
 out for half an hout , the next thing I knew, it was 3:30am! Quite engrossing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Valkyrie_44
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 22, 2006 9:09 pm PT
Review:  Being this is my first game purchased in the this series. I expected a very large scale RTS. In 
 a way, I was very, very wrong. Primarily the game itself reminds me mechanically of the game, Star 
 Trek : Birth of the Federation. In practice, and function the game starts out to be something pretty 
 daunting as a first experience, but as time goes on going through the paces seemingly becomes easier. 
 The single player game itself is more of a turned-based strategy, where you are worry about your 
 territories, making sure towns are happy, your constructing your villiages, building military power, 
 diplomacy, ect, ect, ect... (Can you see how initially all this can be daunting?) Just one of the 
 major concerns with this game is if you are not a ptient gamers, or did not enjoy Civilization 
 4, you will probably be not too turned on by this game. This game does contain a bit of tendium, 
 and you will be spending some time playing even in the single player. Graphically, its an excellent 
 presentation to enjoy especially in the battles. The battles are epic, hundreds of troops on either 
 end just hammering away. If you zoom in, and watch the battles up close you will notice some really 
 nice nuances. For example, the soldiers are actually fighting, and interacting against one another. 
 Visually, its beautiful, and the attention to detail is stunning. Stability, i have yet to run 
 into a problem with performance with this title set to the highest levels. No problems with crashes 
 or bugs. So far this is one of the best performing games of the near recent titles just released. 
 In my opinion, this game would do well in the library of the hardcore medieval nut, or in love 
 with micromanagment with a twist of stratagem. If you are descibed in the above then this game 
 is explicitly made for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spikepigeo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 22, 2006 5:13 pm PT
Review:  I didn't care much for the first MTW compared to Rome. So when Medieval 2: TW came out i was a bit 
 sceptical. I like the Roman Empire era better than the Medieval era, but I like the Medieval GAME 
 better than the rome GAME. This game was amazing to say the least. The online play was intense 
 and the campaign was never gets old. I have spent hours on the campaign map alone. The things you 
 can do with diplomacy are accurate and fun believe it or not. Using merchants and diplomats for 
 the greater good of your empire is fun, but using them to screw over your enemy is even better. 
 It gets better. The assassin with the cinematics is one of the coolest additions and are so extremely 
 fun to use. The only thing i don't like is that i can only use each assassin once per turn! If 
 that wasn't enough then i'll tell ya more. You obviously know that the highlight of this game isn't 
 the campaign map, it's the RTS maps. Whenever i get the option to automatically resolve the battle 
 or play it out RTS style, I always chose the RTS, even if the odds are 10 to 1. Overall the only 
 thing this game could improve in is the sound, it feels off beat with the action every now and 
 then, but that's understandable with all of the stuff going on. Highly recommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poopskadoop
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 22, 2006 11:16 am PT
Review:  Medieval II isn't as revolutionary as Rome was. Instead, it improves upon some of the lackluster 
 features of the previous title in order to create the perfect game. Well, the result perhaps isn't 
 what was intended, but medieval II remains a great game.
  
  The most evident improvement is graphical. Unfortunately, as you may have heard, a very powerful 
 machine is required to get the most out of M2's graphics. Still, using the same machine that I 
 used for Rome, the graphics look markedly better even with the settings tuned to optimal (I use 
 a 6800) . There is no longer the clone army that was seen in Rome, and the skins look remarkable. 
 Another little detail that pleased greatly was the addition of different skins for different armor 
 levels. You will notice the quality of the armor become greater; militia spearmen go from wearing 
 a simple garb to heavy chain mail armor and shiny helmets, making them look much more imposing. 
 A minor detail, I know, but this was one feature that I constantly wish I had in Rome.
  
  Another welcome change is the battle animations. Instead of the pathetic looking sword thrust of 
 Rome: TW, you now see a whole slew of different moves being performed. It looks very nice and creates 
 a bit of diversity on the battlefield that makes everything that much more convincing, although 
 it would be nice to fine tune the animations a little so that it doesn't look like the soldiers 
 are slashing at air.
  
  The campaign map is much the same. It is also graphically updated, but I hardly have time to notice. 
 ME2 introduces an interesting system of fortress and city, the former being a military powerhouse 
 and the latter being an economic one. I noticed that managing finance has become a little more 
 difficult, which may good or bad depending on your view of the previous game. Recruiting troops 
 has become more realistic with the ability to recruit several units at once within one city/castle. 
 Unfortunately, there is no distinct transition to professional armies like there was in Rome. Yes, 
 a minor detail, but the Marian reforms of Rome was just such an awe inspiring transition. I wish 
 something like that existed in ME2. Instead, you just gradually attain the ability to produce more 
 advanced troops. Oh well, not a big deal.
  
  Now, there are a few problems. First, bugs are everywhere. One of the most notably irritating bugs 
 is the passive AI bug. I notice from time to time that my soldiers sort of stop fighting and prefer 
 to stand around stupidly. There are also some issues with units moving on walls. I notice sometimes 
 that a few of the troops moving from one point on a wall to the other will decide to climb down 
 at the next tower while the others continue walking. Cavalry are still just as inept at chasing 
 down routing enemies as they were in Rome. There are a few other awkward instances of troop movement 
 that I have noticed, but it would be tedious to list them all here. Regardless, I will -not- penalize 
 the game for these bugs because a patch -should- fix them soon. Overall, though, it doesn't seem 
 like the Ai was improved that much.
  
  Some people have also complained about the inquisitors. They somehow have the amazing ability to 
 kill virtually everyone in your family tree, your diplomats, your merchants, everyone, and are 
 impossible to assassinate. They are supposed to remove heretics, but I believe they are far more 
 annoying than they are an interesting tactical consideration. Something else that bothers me is 
 the Pope's insistence on -not- attacking fellow Catholic nations. Well, he doesn't seem to be as 
 harsh on nations that attack me randomly. When I retaliate and conquer the cities of the attacker, 
 the pope gets mad and tells me to stop. I do, but the other guy continues to attack me and won't 
 settle for a peace treaty. This creates a rather muddled diplomatic situation that makes conquering 
 Europe a little more complicated than it should be.
  
  If you liked Rome, then you'll undoubtedly like ME2, but don't expect something amazing. It's good; 
 it's addictive; it's fun; it's worth the money. That's all that need to be said. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pyoob
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 21, 2006 6:06 pm PT
Review:  Extremely triumphant return to everything that was fantastic about Rome. This is the ULTIMATE strategy 
 game. Deep, immersive, compelling, beautiful... all these words don't come close to describing 
 the feeling of control that the player is allowed to weild over his empire. This game eats up my 
 time, and I'm proud of it. No other game, of any genre, matches the feeling of satisfaction produced 
 by this game. Over long periods of time you will find yourself absolutley despising your rivals, 
 loving your allies and growing fond of your own nationality. The anticipation before and after 
 battles will get your stomach to drop in dread or your mouth to shout in glory of your wins and 
 losses. Never has a game been able to give certain events such a feeling of importance. This game 
 is a must-have for anyone who liked Rome, and a must-try for anyone who ever liked strategy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: itpontius
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 22, 2006 5:58 am PT
Review:  Medieval 2: Total War is an awesome game. The graphics and the game play are much better than its 
 other Total War counterpart. The units are no longer invincible when they have huge experience 
 like on the other total war games. It is way easier to get money and the siege weapons are refined 
 and are extraordinary. You can still get catapults and ballistae, but now you can also get trebuchets 
 and cannons. There are more types of boats as well. You can get foot or mounted gunman, even gun 
 elephants! These games best parts are the newly improved fighting parts. The people on the other 
 games attacked with disjointed swipes and thrusts and dodged at the wrong time. The battle parts 
 are much more fluent, with everyone continually attacking. They dodge at the right times and the 
 moves are VERY realistic. If a dismounted feudal knight attacks someone and is about to do the 
 killing blow, sometimes they will lunge and stab their sword all the way through the enemy! If 
 you want a board game style intense strategy game combined with intense real time battles that 
 you have complete control in, and a game based completely off of real history, this game is perfect 
 for you. I have yet to see a problem with this game and it inset getting old fast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vain_Apocalypse
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 25, 2006 11:40 am PT
Review:  First off, let me get all the good stuff out of the way..
  
  This is by far the most innovative and deep game in the series. The campaign map, and all the elements 
 that drive it, have been overwhelmingly built up. The new agents (merchants, priests, princesses, 
 ect.) provide a whole handful of new ways to go about the expansion of your empire. Diplomacy has 
 been improved to near perfection. And the way that the papal states and the pope interact with 
 the Catholic factions is vastly more deep than the Senate and it's doings in Rome: Total War.. Also, 
 with a whole new chunk of the world to conquer, and with around 200 unique units and around 20 
 factions, Medieval 2 has a nice bloated gut full of refreshing content.
  
  On to the sensual appeals of the game. The graphics (though they come at a price) are a splendid 
 contrast from that of Rome: Total War. The landscape, the troops, EVEN THE CAMPAIGN MAP looks infinitely 
 better than before. The second sensual appeal: sound. The sound in this game is AMAZING. From the 
 music, to the accents, to the war cries of troops charging into battle, to the explosive cracks 
 of gun and cannon fire, all simply wonderful.
  
  Now I did imply that the game has a flaw or two, so I might aswell get to that. The game's single 
 biggest (perhaps only) flaw is the battle map A. I., it's arguably worse than the A. I. in Rome: 
 Total War. The problem isn't very noticable early on in the game, but later, towards the end of 
 the campaign (once gunpowder becomes the dominant force on the battlefield) it becomes almost impossible 
 to ignore how easily a row or two of gunmen mow down an opposing army who can't decide what formation 
 to take or how to attack you. The opposing riflemen may start to charge you, then fall back deciding 
 it best to skirmish for awhile, then they'll charge you again and route before ever reaching your 
 lines. Opposing infantry line just stand there and let you mow them down while their own gunmen 
 try to figure out what to do... And the enemy's cavalry seems to have completely forgotten the value 
 of flanking your opponent.... And when it comes to siege battles.... Your enemy still doesn't seem 
 to grasp that standing right infront of your walls, asking for an arrow through the skull, isn't 
 how cities and castles are taken... This kind of Artificial stupidity has allowed me to win several 
 battles with only 4% allied casulties, and as high as 98% enemy casulties..
  
  All in all... The A. I. makes battles in the late game hard to enjoy unless you really hold back 
 on the enemy...
  
  Even though the A. I. is the equivalent of an enormous and hairy wart (5.9 mm in diameter) on the 
 lip of the most heavenly female face ever gazed upon by a mortal man, the game still offers a satisfying 
 degree of content. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CRM114
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 7, 2007 1:20 am PT
Review:  It would seem impossible, but Medieval II improves upon its predecessors in almost every respect. 
 Many of the glaring issues I had with Rome (unrealistic routing/short battles, confusing trade 
 and income management, etc) seem to have been resolved. With hundreds of new units, a graphical 
 overhaul, a new way to manage settlements (cities or castles) , an improved religious system, and 
 21 factions to play as, Medieval II is possibly the best single player experience available for 
 the strategy enthusiast today. It's simply just a lot of fun. Be warned however, as this game is 
 just as addicting as previous installments in the series! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: walrus8303
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 21, 2006 2:50 pm PT
Review:  Medieval II Total War finally is released after a year of impatient wait. And I think that it worth 
 it.
  
  The game replaces its predecessor Medieval: Total War, the Total War game for the medieval period. 
 The whole concept of the game hasn't changed much. You expand and manage your empire while you 
 fight magnificant real time large scale battles. But as it was needed there has been an upgrading 
 of the game in many sectors.
  
  First of all the most important changes have been done on the graphics section. Not only the new 
 Total War game features the latest graphics a game might have but it also introduces some innovations. 
 One of them is the fact that the armies are no longer clone armies which means that everyu single 
 soldier in battle is unique. Moreover each unit has its own unique animations to defend attack 
 and finish off enemies (which is surely awesome to watch) . As the creators of the game stated: 
 We tried to make the zoomed in look as exciting as the zoomed out 
  
  The next changes that happened in the game are some gameplay changes on the campaign. Now on the 
 settlements can be either cities or castles meaning that they can be either economic or military 
 settlements with obvious pros and cons. Moreover as we are in the Medieval Era the Pope can't be 
 missing. So the Pope gives you missions and excommunicates / reconsiles the catholic nations that 
 have gone astray. Not only the Pope is the one that gives missions. Now there are a lot of interesting 
 guilds that approach you to built their headquarters in your cities giving you advantages that 
 can be developed if you manage to carry out the missions that you will be asked to accomplish from 
 on of those guilds.
  
  Another improvement on the game is its AI. AI has been more agressive than it used to be making 
 the game tougher but it still has a lot of way to go. Creative Assemply has allready announced 
 a patch that will solve (hopefully) many of the crashes and the AI bugs of the game and any other 
 users complaints that will be found.
  
  Medieval II Total War might not be as revoloutionary as Shogan or Rome TW but it still has alot 
 to give to the RTS / TBS developement. Surely should not be missed by any fan of the strategy genre, 
 as it is quite addictive and requires a lot of strategy skills and tactics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tiggerlu
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 21, 2006 1:41 pm PT
Review:  If there weren't a Total War: medevial, or a Rome Total War, this game would a definite 9.5 or 
 10. The graphics overall are beautiful, and the gameplay is solid but doesn't do all that much 
 to stand out from its predecessors. I think this game had a chance to really give some in-depth 
 detail, and insight - instead the areas that were cited as new felt over-simplified. For example 
 diplomacy still feels lackluster, the Papal elections is also very basic.
  
  All of these political aspects of the game are glossed over, without much detail as to how it works, 
 and how you fit in, it rather feels like rock paper scissors.
  
  I think my biggest complaint, and only cause i love series is i've found this game rather easy, 
 maybe it would have played out the same in history, but overall when i got an empire going... there 
 was very little active resistance. Now, maybe this is how it would have played out, but i found 
 the strategic AI a bit un-challenging, might be the right word.
  
  Overall a solid game, especially if you've never played it before. For hardcore fans of this game, 
 once you get past the nice graphics, it's not that new or special. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Atroxy
Rating: 7.1
Date: Nov 21, 2006 1:49 pm PT
Review:  Is Medieval II: Total War worth, the wait? Worth 50$? Worth upgrading your PC for? The awsner is 
 no !
  
  I know, your reading tons of reviews where people give the game a 9 or a 10. Personally I don't 
 have a clue, where they got all the positive points from. This game aint worth a 9 or a 10!
  
  Gameplay
  
  Medieval II: Total War is much like a bottle of wine. When you open a bottle 
 of wine, it's very tasty and delicious. But, when you forget to close the bottle, and you happened 
 to drink from it again 2 days later, you will spit out the wine, and through it away.
  
  Harsh said, but very close to the truth. The Creative Assembly had 2 years to come up with a new 
 TW game, with innovating gameplay and unique features, but apperently even 2 years aint enough 
 for them to come up with a better AI. Really, I would even consider to think the AI in Medieval 
 II is worse than that of Rome. Theoritically it should be the way around. I've played Medieval 
 II for 30 hours, and I've thrown like a hundred bottles of diet coke against my neighbours car, 
 cause of the AI. Cavalry not attacking when you want them to (even by clicking a million times, 
 on the enemy, they won't move) . Groups of men falling apart. They suddenly start to spread out 
 over the entire map (very frustrating) . When you command units, they simple ignore your commands, 
 and decide to do something entirely different. For example, I select a unit, and give them the 
 command to move inside the city. After doing that I go to another part of the map, to see how my 
 men are doing and than after 15 sec I go back to the ones that we're supose to be in the city by 
 now, and they are still standing there like monkeys.
  
  Rome charge bug, now called 'Medieval II charge bug'. They charge in stages. They first charge, 
 then realize their to far away, and start walking, then 5 sec later they charge again, and 5 sec 
 after that they walk again. At the end, the massive charge scene you see in LOTR, is impossible 
 to get in Medieval II, cause they charge, walk, charge, walk, charge, walk ... .
  
  Defeat an army with only archers. In real life, impossible, in Medieval II a win-win situation. 
 The AI is so advanced, when the game starts, they just stand there. They don't move a muscle. So, 
 you don't have to charge and lose all your men, just send your archers and they will do it for 
 you in a couple of minutes when you increase the speed.
  
  Enemy troops charge and then get confused. They charge (and you think yes! But no... ) than when 
 they get closer, they stop, and start doing really weird. Basically , according to Medieval II, 
 humans had an IQ of 10.
  
  The campaign map aint better. You still have to do the annoying missions like blockade that port, 
 make alliances with that nation, and so on. You will also get missions from the pope (cool, you 
 would say, but think again) . Missions like convert that area to your religion, or join a crusade 
 on Jeruzalem. That last one is really fun when your playing England, and you have 8 turns to get 
 to Jeruzalem, when your 25 turns away!! Alot of fun! Then the pope thinks your not fighting for 
 his relegion (while you did send a huge army over land, than over sea, getting attacked by a billion 
 pirate ships to get to Jeruzalem, but hey) and he sends inquisitors to kill either your faction 
 leader, your generals, priests or your cardinals. This would be fun to see in a movie, but not 
 when this happens to your men. Then you get excommunicated and the pope sends a crusade on one 
 of your cities (awesome!) .
  
  Another thing that annoys me alot is the lack of money. One of the many things The Creative Assembly 
 forgot or didn't plan in changing was the way you could earn 'billions'. Billions? Oh sorry, more 
 like thousands in 50 years. And than they expect you to conquer half of Europe and do multiple 
 crusades or jihads. I was broke before I even got to Jeruzalem!
  
  The only good part about the game is the MP. Reason why is simple, AI = Human. So there is alot 
 of fun in the MP part of the game, even though it aint that advanced.
  
  Graphics
  
  The game looks great, and you'll need a very powerful system to get a descent framerate out of 
 your rig. Characters look great, cities and castles look great. All the effects look good and feel 
 nice. The camera shakes when canons fire, which looks and feels great.
  
  Sound
  
  The sound is pretty much the same, as we saw in Rome. Nothing much to say about it and nothing 
 bad to say about it either.
  
  Overall
  
  If you are not sure about the game, don't buy it. If you know there could be some risks and bugs, 
 go ahead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pirateotobx
Rating: 6.4
Date: Nov 21, 2006 12:36 pm PT
Review:  I liked Rome TW better. This is basically more of the same. There is a minimal graphics enhancement 
 in terrain and buildings but the armies, to me, are less than anticipated. I think overall game 
 play is smoother in Rome TW. I was expecting more of an upgrade. After playing Company of Heroes 
 it's hard to switch to the graphics of Medieval 2 TW. That may be the problem I have. CoH is such 
 a big jump in Graphics and AI I was expecting more from the Total War series, especially after 
 all the hype. There are a few bugs I'm hoping a patch will fix... such as being given a mission 
 and performing the mission and the game not recognizing it. A few other small things. Fun game 
 .. just nothing new. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigNudeGuardian
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 21, 2006 12:35 pm PT
Review:  Being a fan of the total war series, i have every one of them and i have always thought that every 
 one that was made was a step above the rest. Up until now, all the steps taken have been big but 
 with this game i see very little difference. The interface with the computer is far better and 
 the battles are far more visually pleasing. Other than that the game hasn't imporved. You still 
 have guys that are standing there getting killed and not raising their weapons when they get close 
 to an enemy. Just putting it out there, that i should have to tell the soldiers when they can take 
 a dump. They really should put some common sense into them. More like the bracing they do before 
 they get charged from the front. But if they are geting attacked from the side, they are just goin 
 to stand their until their hit. The camera has to be the worst thing in the game. When i am playing 
 in a fortress of sorts, i always run into buildings and that sends the camra flying into the air 
 and i have to relocate to a position that i might not be able to see the battle as good. I wish 
 that they would only make it so that the camra stopped when it hit something instead of it just 
 flying willy nilly through the air. Overall i love the game and plan to spend plenty of sleepless 
 nights kicking the butts of the French. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: charley_mcd
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 21, 2006 12:20 pm PT
Review:  This game has everything a good game should have and it has all flaws that a good game should also 
 have (not many) . I'd rather get the bad things ou of the way first so here it is. More factions should 
 have rocket launchers, Muslim factions should have more sword wielding units and when the producers 
 said that every city would be unique, they lied nly a few are unique. Ok thats out the way so lets 
 get to the facts this is the best game of 2006! its epic campaign will give you endless gameplay 
 that even the biggest armchair warrior would have trouble finishing. This game has took a huge step 
 forward for the Total war series by adding stunning graphics to the rapidly aging RTW. This game 
 only shows new possibilities for the total war series and I CANNOT WAIT till there next expansion. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tactician
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 21, 2006 4:33 am PT
Review:  This has been a culmination of development enhancements since the very first Shogun Total War. 
 This is a well built game and fairly stable. (To date I have had only 1 crash) The game objective 
 is as it always has been for the series, run your fledgling city state from a single fief to an 
 entire empire. Make War and Peace with your neighbors, use politics, assassins and spies to compliment 
 your forces. When all else fails, suck up and marry into an alliance. The game play is fluid and 
 it is easy to end up in a situation where you want just one more turn and hours slip away. I myself 
 have to watch when I play simply because of that. I could easily make 5 hours disappear. The game 
 is great and the battles are fantastic. My only small complaint is that the battle speeches are 
 a bit repetitive and I wish they would have added more. If you love strategy, go get the game. 
 You will love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: callmepsycho
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 21, 2006 12:15 am PT
Review:  There was a great deal of hype following the announcement that the Creative Assembly (CA) was intending 
 to develop a sequel to their highly successful Medieval: Total War. Medieval: Total War II would 
 build on all that CA had learnt whilst working on the series, add features that their fan base 
 had suggested and encase it within some stunning new eye candy. With every press release and screenshot, 
 expectations grew and questions began to be raised as to whether CA could pull off such an ambitious 
 project without having to remove much love features.
  
  The Creative Assembly are not ones to be under estimated. Medieval: Total War II has in most cases 
 met or exceeded expectation. The latest instalment to the series is without doubt CAs finest work. 
 Battles are truly cinematic with geographical accurate landscape beautifully rendered in fine detail. 
 Sky scapes are photo-real, grass, where appropriate, sways in the breeze, water ripples. The units 
 themselves have impressive animations and look realistic, reflecting the gritty realities of medieval 
 life. Each unit now seeks out and engages in combat with other units, the choreographed thrust 
 and parry usually culminating in a spray of blood and some convincing death throws and finishing 
 moves. Cities are each unique and can auto render on an epic scale. Castles make a stunning return 
 with some lucky defenders enjoying three rings of defence. Each faction in the game has a distinct 
 feel with varied build trees, units, accented speech and historical characters.
  
  On the Strategic map, the Papacy has been given an new lease of life as the player can now take 
 their priests and work to have them promoted to Cardinals and with enough support, have them elected 
 Pope, thereby giving the player a better means of gaining Papal favour in choosing Crusade destinations 
 and even waging war with fellow Catholic nations. Get enough support and the Pope will excommunicate 
 your enemy and thus allow you to call a Crusade down upon their sorry heretic hides. Similarly, 
 Muslim factions can call Jihads and spread Islam across the map. Then theres the hordes of invading 
 Mongols but thats a whole new chapter..
  
  (Recommended Play: Very Hard)
  
  my2bob 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YB_Liquid_Snake
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 20, 2006 9:32 pm PT
Review:  This game is great but it also has some down falls and that is if u don't have a good computer 
 so if u are looking intoi this game and do not have that good of a computer u should w8 till u 
 get one cause if u have a slow one it could cause u to lag and have some serious problems down 
 the road exspecally if u want to play online and do not have a good computer it could make u crash 
 or just plan loose from lag or not being able to properly general your units into combat and battles. 
 So this game is great but be sure to get a fast running computer to run it on or u will feel like 
 a caveman with a club beating at the keyboard tryign to get the game to work. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cociodar
Rating: 5.7
Date: Nov 20, 2006 2:16 pm PT
Review:  sorry, but that's my impression ... boring . Only more factions than Rome Total War, otherwise 
 not too much difference. Of course it's improved, and the graphics are ok, music aswell , but i'm 
 waiting for this game since march, and it's a real dissapontment .
  I never imagined the Roman Empire having so many english names for royalties. Well, you have them 
 in this game. If you really want to play a game that looks the same , but you don't have money 
 to buy it, play rome, and you would feel the same.
  Even the tutorial is built the same, the same interface. The battlefield looks improved, but not 
 too much. Otherwise, it's a good remember of Rome Total War 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zhamar
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 20, 2006 2:06 pm PT
Review:  I played Total War series for Shogun, Medieval and Rome so I am familiar with the interface in 
 the series so my expectations were just for some new graphics but actually when I started playing 
 the game I was very pleased to see the X-FI sound, awesome graphics, and new changes like the building 
 between a city or castle, also the religion plays a deeper part here specially if you fight fellow 
 christian nations while trying to make the Pope happy.
  
  I noticed a bug in the digital download version where fonts are unreadable sometimes, but I am 
 sure they will fix it soon with a patch.
  
  If you like strategy games that take days and weeks to complete this is the game for you. If you 
 just want some bloody skirmishes go play warhammer mark of chaos another great game!. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bretwalda
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 20, 2006 3:29 am PT
Review:  If your going be playing a Total War game soon, this is by far the best in the TW series. However, 
 after about a 20-50 turns into the large campaign your going to start to feel you've seen and done 
 a lot of this stuff already with the previous iterations on Total War (Rome, MTW, Shogun) .
  
  Realistic but tedious Campaign mode:
  
  To narrow my review a bit, I have no problems with 
 the battle side of this game. It's a solid combat system and much improved to perfection now in 
 this 4th in the TW series. Most my problems are centered on the campaign map/mode side of gameplay 
 - almost identical with Rome Total War with a few tweaks here and there. Make no mistake, this 
 flashy new set of wheels still has good ol' Rome Total War running underneath when you lift up 
 the hood. In some cases the menus are identical to RTW, with some different skins and buttons moved 
 around for variety. Bring back Risk style map! Territorialism is more compelling gameplay than 
 more 3d realism.
  
  Things feel familiar and natural right out of the box. The problem for me is the general tedium 
 of doing business on this style of map, the clone missions, and endless sieging of castles or stocking 
 them to defend on occasion. The map is almost exactly the same as from and RTW, and focuses way 
 too heavily on castle sieges rather than territorial control and management.
  
  One thing I liked about the first Medieval Total war, and it's mother Shogun - was the unpredictability 
 and visable conquest of your territories on the RISK style map. It gave you a sense of accomplishment 
 and conquest. And there was always an inherent mistrust from adjacent territories aligned with 
 neutral or enemy factions. You move out to attack one region, and get invaded in the turn. It was 
 simple yet highly unpreditable fun. It created a sense of edgy balance trying to build slowly and 
 divide troops between offense and defense. That's all gone in RTW and MTW2 - the goal was to create 
 a realistic campaign map, and show off some flashy 3d graphics - but the campaign gameplay isn't 
 there in this or RTW. Everything is endless castles sieges, and clone missions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Armalite1016
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 2, 2007 9:27 pm PT
Review:  I have been waiting for this game to come out ever since I first heard about it probably a year 
 ago. Since I had the first Medieval Total War, and liked that game a lot, I was pumped up for this 
 game. What really pulled me in was the new battles, since in the original what I mostly did was 
 custom or instant battles. Well now when I play this, I never do custom or instant (I haven't even 
 done an instant battle yet) I only do the campaign, because it is so deep and just intense it's 
 insane. Gameplay- Near Perfect. There are little bugs every so often, so it doesn't reach the pinnacle 
 of 10, but it's only a hairs breath away from it. Things like how units kind of spread out a little 
 too much when engaging other units drags it down just a little, but what I found is that when you 
 are playing the campaign, and everything is on the line in that single battle, you really don't 
 have time to watch. The only thing you have time for is strategy and the battle plan. The campaign 
 is just as fun, but somethings are a little confusing that they don't explain in the manual either, 
 so it does get somewhat confusing, but for that most part you are going to be too busy either waging 
 war of being diplomatic to care. The sheer aspect of things that could happen is ming boggling. 
 If you play the game, you will know what I am talking about. Anything can happen, and the gameplay 
 is almost perfect. Another thing that is kinda awkward is the camera.
  
  Graphics- These would be a 10, but you need an absolutely insane setup to experience it in all 
 it's glory, so on an average system the graphics would get a 9, which is still really good, so 
 you don't have to worry. on a lower end system, I would rate the graphics at a 8, so don't worry 
 if you have a low end system, because face it, 8 graphics are still very much acceptable. Performance 
 I don't know about though on lower end systems. There doesn't seem to be frame rate issues either, 
 unless you have 5000+ troops on the battle field at once, but that isn't really a problem a lot 
 of the time since in the campaign each army usually has 1000-2000 soldiers max in it , depending 
 on the unti size you picked in settings..
  
  Sound- I was going to give this a 9, because overall it is what you would expect, excellent, but 
 not worth a 10, you know. But then when I heard the crossbows cocking their bows, that gave me 
 a better impression, and I started leaning toward a 10, but it still didn't sell me. Then I sent 
 my troops up into a defensive mountain position that was at an extreme height. When I heard someone 
 coughing because of the cold, that sold me. There are so many sounds it is incredible, and they 
 all sound incredible.
  
  Value- There are about 15-20 factions to play as, and each has a short and long campaign. However, 
 most play out fairly similar. So there are still more variety in gameplay than most games though. 
 Overtime I can see it getting repetitive, so that's why I gave it a 9 instead of a 10. Tilt- 10, 
 nothing more to be said haha.
  
  Overall this is my new favorite game, just because it is everything you would ever want in a strategy 
 game, and for once, you can actually use your armies in a strategic way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bling_Blang
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2006 6:00 pm PT
Review:  This game is epic. It is a huge step forward for the whole TW series. I loved Rome Total War and 
 didn't thinkg it could get any better, but oh man was I in for a treat. Everything from the graphics 
 to the AWESOME battles is amazing. I am playing on the hardest setting and it is soooo much fun. 
 It does have some bugs right now, but when the patch comes out it will be near perfect. The game 
 is so deep and engrossing that you will be playing for a long, long time and even when you beat 
 it, you will come back for more. It was well worth the wait. I say nice job CA! =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: twitch007911
Rating: 6.2
Date: Nov 19, 2006 3:40 pm PT
Review:  Let me first start by saying that like many of you, I am a big TW fan and have played all of the 
 games quite extensively. I was really excited to play MTW II. In fact I was counting the days until 
 it came out. When many reviewers said it was a lot like RTW, I was not discouraged. That was an 
 idea I was fine with. When i finally got the game a couple days ago, I was totally disappointed. 
 Shame on CA for releasing an unfinished game and shame on reviewers for not ripping the shabby 
 product to shreds!!! Here is why it is disappointing:
  
  Bug city!!! This is one of the most unrefined, unfinished games I have ever played. Sure Rome had 
 its bugs, but nothing that killed the gameplay. Campaign Game Problems:
  
  1. Speaking of bugs... The campaign game works pretty well. I like many of the new additions, but 
 turns oftentimes take 30 seconds to 1 mintue due to the fact that some animations can be sped up 
 and many cannot. Even if you take off show moves, it still shows some of the animations at normal 
 speed. 2. The interworkings with the chruch is unperdictable and illogical at best. Interworkings 
 with other factions is about on par with Rome, probably a little better. 3. New agents are more 
 of a pain than they are worth.
  
  4. Building browser and other menus are clunky and not well organised. This would be okay if it 
 wasn't a fourth generation game. Battle Problems:
  
  1. Where should I begin? Romes battles were great, but Medieval II's are just plain terrible. Everything 
 looks great and you start to get sucked into them until the fighting breaks out. 20 guys out of 
 a unit charge and fight the rest stay back. Sometimes they all fight but face the wrong way. Sometimes 
 they purely refuse to fight. I have had billmen, knights, and generals just stand in a battle waiting 
 to get hacked down. Explain 75 peasants killing 60 armoured billmen without taking a casualty. 
 2. Men refuse your orders. This happened rarely of Rome, but on medieval it happens a lot.
  
  3. Pathfinding is terrible, especially on walls. Don't even get me started on where guys end 
 up. 4. Horse vs. anything is terrible. Mailed knights lose to peasants and crossbowmen. Charges 
 are horrible... wait non-exsistent. THe only horse that fights well are generals.
  
  5. Spears seem to beat almost anything. Usually the cheaper the unit the better. 6. Unit copies. 
 All faction's base troops essentially the same stat wise.
  
  7. Morale is much toughter than in Rome. Dismounted Fuedal Knights will run from two units of militia 
 spearmen, but peasants will fight till the last five men. 8. Stats seem worthless and repetitive. 
 Why is it that most archers have a missle stat of 5 or 9 regardless of faction. Where is the diversity? 
 Almost every factions spearmen have the stat of 5 attack, 7 defense, and 3 charge. Lame... But stats 
 don't matter anyways! See peasant ownage above.
  
  9. Ballista towers fire arrows just like arrow towers. Don't waste the 3200. 10. Overall, battles 
 are nail-biting! Why? beacuase you never know if they will work the way they are suppose to or 
 not. Maybe you guys will attack, maybe not. Maybe your peasants will pwn maybe they will lose like 
 they should against good troops. Maybe your archers will shoot straight up in the air, maybe they 
 will shoot their target. Who knows. Such inconsistent gameplay kills the strategy. OVERALL:
  
  MTW II could be saved with some extensive patching. CA has always been good about making useful 
 patches. I surely hope they do, because I want to like the game. I really want to watch gothic 
 knights crush peasants and venetian infantry smash spear militia with their hammers. But in the 
 condition it is in, it only provides pure frustration. + great graphics, smooth framrates, good 
 animations, return of videos, decent campaign game. Lastly good potential
  
  - Bugs bugs bugs!!! balancing issues that are major. Unfinished product!!! Overall frustrating. 
 I hadn't thrown my keyboard in years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trungnasa
Rating: 7.6
Date: Nov 19, 2006 3:18 pm PT
Review:  I've been a fan of the Totalwar series from the get-go, back in the days when we marched yashigaru 
 and samurai archers toward warrior monks, while sending yari calvary to their flank and ninjas 
 to their general. First time i played Shogun, i thought it spectacular, and of course then Rome 
 came along and it kinda changed the game entirely, fortunately for the better. Now we have medieval 
 II, and frankly i think what it did to rome is about what exactly what the original medieval did 
 to shogun: new factions, new units, new bulidings, new setting, new context, and few gameplay tweaks 
 here and there, but essentially what you get can be described as more of the same. And it's a testament 
 to the fact that you just can't go wrong with the total war formular Up to now, the only thing 
 that i think keeping me from viewing medieval II as a Rome mod (you heard it right, mod) is the 
 Pope. Inquisitor burning my faction heirs and general? check. Cease and deceit order while i was 
 one turn away from annihilating France? check. Annoying orders and crusade every 3 turns or so? 
 check. New pope from a warring faction and my favor drop from top to bottom? Check. Bottom line: 
 the Pope is so annoying he's great. He plays a much more powerful role than the good old Senate, 
 and can actually affect your decision making. He's so annoying that right now i'm training a horde 
 of assasin for one purpose only: to kill an inquisitor. I mean, they killed 2 faction heirs of 
 mine, one when he was besieging Paris, no less. As to everything else, i regret to have to say 
 that it's just more of the same. There's no different at all, as far as i can see, between fighting 
 with Dismounted knight, longbow man and English kight and doing the same battle with Nagiata, samurai 
 archer and yari calvary. The tactics stay the same, battle mechanic stays the same, and the units 
 unfortunately aren't any smarter. I'd appreciate some automation features, for example the ability 
 to order companies from different position to converge to a point at the same time, or if archers 
 can actually retreat in formation. That said, i still love the total war mechanic to death, but 
 it's been 4 years, for King arthur's sake please make some change other than multiple defenses. 
 Like makiing the units smarter, for example. That bring us to the biggest issue in Medieval II: 
 the AI. Or more like what AI? . The AI of medieval II is mediocre, to say the least. I'm currently 
 playing on the hardest setting, and the AI more than once made me laugh. Like that time they marched 
 a huge pike and crossbow army out of the fortress of Toulouse (which, had they stayed within it's 
 wall, would have been a **** to defeat) into the army of my faction leader for a field battle. 
 The result? i was able to plan a perfect trap and crush an army of 1200 with only 60 loss (my army 
 was, btw, 600 strong) . The fact is, the AI has the habit of marching armies that would have fared 
 much better behind walls into battle, which of course left their city free for the taking. It's 
 not entirely hard to outwit them in the field either. Once they just stood in dense formation, 
 basically making living target for my catapults. So, the gameplay stays the same, AI as bad or 
 even worse than usual, what else can i say about Medieval war? Holly molly, sound and graphic!!! 
 I know some people think beautiful graphic doesn't make a good game, but hell, the incredible visual 
 of Medieval II simply add so much to the experience. Armies marched in glistering landscape with 
 incredible lighting and visual effect, with fluttering banners, armor that shines and reflect their 
 surrounding, and best of all, there is a sense of soldiers being real individual, as they look, 
 moved and fought like varied individual. But of course, that's all covered in the gamespot review, 
 so i'm not gonna dwell into it that much. And the increidble sound of the series stays put, with 
 some very tasty new sound track. In a nutshell, the presentation of Medieval is simply incredible. 
 So what's my take on Medieval II? It's as addictive as any other total war game, it stays true 
 to the good old total war mechanics, it got incredible visual and heart stopping sound, and i will 
 likely be playing at lest 3-4 hours a day for the next few months (hopefully my GPA won't drop 
 this time, as it did when shogun first came out) ) . My only regret is i kinda hoped for the sort 
 of groundbreaking game Rome was and it simply didn't deliver on that. Oh well, i'm gonna wait for 
 next time then PS: to Creative Assembly, i suggest doing the next total war game on Ancient China 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: I_Am_The_Sketch
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 19, 2006 11:39 am PT
Review:  The total war genre is no stranger to PC gamers, every game that has ever been released has been 
 snapped up hungrily by PC gamers everywhere. Medieval total war is the latest, and it is definitely 
 the best.
  
  I am a firm believer that graphics don't make a game, but I can't help but be amazed with Medieval 
 Total War 2 every time. Battles which can have literally thousands of detailed units on screen 
 at any time, with beautiful effects of explosions and fire happening all around, you can't get 
 much better.
  
  The graphics are improved even from Rome Total War, not only do the units have higher polygon counts, 
 but also they have some variation now. Instead of having an army of clones there will be several 
 variations of men per unit., which although it doesn't sound like much, makes a massive difference.
 
  
  However, you will need a beefy system to run it to it's maximum potential.
  
  Something I forgot to mention is the grass, while it does look beautiful, I found that it hindered 
 game play more than helping it, so it's turned off when I play.
  
  As usual, the total war series doesn't disappoint here, with the Grand Campaign being the focus 
 of the game. The Grand campaign map is set in the usual area, Europe, North Africa, the Middle 
 East, and the newly added New World (Part of eastern South America and North America) . The campaign 
 map is far larger and much more detailed now.
  
  Now, the part which really sets itself apart from Rome. The AI of the computer is astounding, both 
 on the campaign map and the battle map. There have been a number of times when I thought I was 
 safe, until the AI pulled a wonderful maneuver and the tables end up being turned.
  
  There are a couple of problems however, such as the Inquisitors, who are pretty much un-killable 
 and just love to kill all your family members and agents. Also the battle AI chooses to be extremely 
 passive every so often, not even noticing when you're killing them slowly with arrow fire.
  
  I will not pretend to be a master with sound, but I find the sounds to be absolutely beautiful.
 
  
  Even with a couple of (Sometimes) game breaking bugs, this game is still worth everybody's hard 
 earned money. And with Creative Assembly promising a patch in the coming weeks to fix the bugs, 
 it should be an essential purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gwilson13
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 19, 2006 5:53 am PT
Review:  I wasn't overly impessed with Rome but eagerly awaited the release of Medieval 2. The game has 
 impressive graphics with a very intelligent game play. While I've only owned the game for 24 hours 
 I've been impressed with the over all level of complexity of the game. I like a challenge and this 
 game will be one, at least to begin with. The graphics are excellent and the flow of the game very 
 good also. I'm not a fan of having a limited choice of 5 nations to start with but look forward 
 to having more choices down the road. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Database72
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 19, 2006 12:20 am PT
Review:  Don't let the rating i gave this game fool you, it really is that good, im not just saying that 
 because im a fan of total war. It deserves every single point!
  
  Gamplay-9 Turnbased stratigic map and real time battle field give this game extreame versitility, 
 especially the real time battles that just immerse you in the world you are in.
  i'd give it a ten but there are some glitches, nothing big or anything but when ordered to charge 
 the units raise thier arms and let out a warcry but stop the charge halfway into meeting the enemy, 
 units also gain veterancy a little easier than in rome (sure that is nice but it makes the game 
 a little too easy i think)
  
  Graphics-10
  This game really does deserve such a rating, never have I seen graphics like these (well the trees 
 could have used some work but it looks great from afar) , when looking at a far angle dense forests 
 and fogs actually cover troops from sight! when units go through jungles the leaves leave shadows 
 that allow streams of light to shine through and bounce off unit armor's leaving a glint of light. 
 Cities come to life as the graphics engine really drives home that walking through the streets 
 of ancient mexico feel. Wonderful day/night environments that blend well with units and cities. 
 Beutifully detailed units and different variations of clothing, armors, shields, weapons, and faces 
 give it that medieval look. Flaming arrows look real this time around.
  
  Sound-10
  Brilliant musical score that gives you a dramatic feel of the culture of the map and state of your 
 army be it marching, standing idle, or in battle. You can listen to units clashing swords and listen 
 to the sounds of men screaming and yelling in battle, the sounds of guns and cannons from afar 
 really give you that immersive world feel. you can really listen to the sound of arrows whizzing 
 through the air at high speeds. Warcries are simply inspireing!
  
  Value-10
  In my opinion worth every penny of 50$, if anything this game should cost 70 bucks! Unlike most 
 games this game gives you the option of hiding your battle interface so you may see only ur units, 
 and if you like you can have your interface hidden but still there with the slide option, this 
 option allows you to hide your interface but if you mouse over where your map would be it apears! 
 Tons of units to choose from, more than twenty nations to play as such as the turks, russians, 
 aztecs, spanish, the paple states, france, venice, moors, england, egypt, the holy roman empire, 
 and more!!! All more or less historically based, so chances are you will learn somthing from this 
 game as well have have lots of fun. Brilliantly coreographed battles really look real, units hit 
 but get blocked by shields, the unit only falls when hit not when the area around the unit is hit, 
 so you wont see a guy slash air and see his enemy fall.
  
  Overall this is one of the greatest games i have played by far, and iv'e played company of heroes. 
 gamespot says that you need a heavy machine to play this game but it playes just fine, and i maxed 
 out the graphics! Not an easy thing to do on my machine. The skirmish mode is allot better now 
 too, you can choose from 3 kinds of periods you would like to play the early period, where you 
 have ur basic arrow and melee troops, the high period, where you have slightly advanced technology 
 such as the trebutchet and longbowmen and some early gunpoweder units, and finally you have the 
 late period which features heavy gunpowder infantry and powerful cannons. with an option like this 
 people who dont like guns and prefer melee combat are in luck. All in all this game is one of the 
 greatest of this year. Definatly a game you would want to have in your collection! Don't base this 
 game on what you play on the demo, the demo just doens't do justice in this games case. If my house 
 was set on fire i would save my pc and this game. It is just that good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 281538960
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 18, 2006 1:06 pm PT
Review:  Having got my copy of M2TW the day it was released i have to say it is a hugely brilliant game. 
 Although apprehensive that it would not work on my computer (see the system requirements) i was 
 overjoyed to find that it worked perfectly. Despite playing previous Total War titles, i found 
 the in game tutorial was very informative both in the battle tutorial and the Campaign Tutorial. 
 The main campaign itself is hugely entertaining. It is challenging for experienced and novice players 
 alike. The AI players respond much more realistically to your actions than in previous titles. 
 Diplomacy plays an integral part, Foreign Diplomats in the game give better reasons for accepting 
 treaties. The one criticism of the game i found was that it is incredibly difficult to improve 
 a priests piety rating, allowing him access to the College Of Cardinals. Overall, this game is 
 the best game i have ever played for the PC. It is much more difficult than other Total War games. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skater9000
Rating: 9.9
Date: Nov 18, 2006 12:07 pm PT
Review:  I've been a fan of the Total war series ever since Shogun, and so Ive seen the series become better 
 and better. When Rome came out i though it couldnt get better than this can it? I was wrong. Medieval 
 2 raises the bar even higher than before with amazing visuals combined with fantastic gameplay 
 that puts you straight into the action. Superb siege battles, although sometimes a little too linear, 
 is still immersive as ever. Religion now plays a more important part than before, getting the Pope's 
 friendly side will be helpful too. In conclusion, while being quite similar to its predecessor, 
 Rome, its absolutely amazing, it sucks you in like a black hole, and its so worth its price tag. 
 What's next, Shogun 2??
  Anyway, if you are any self-respecting gamer you'll definitely have to get this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Monkeymantjg
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 18, 2006 10:28 am PT
Review:  After playing the game for about a week yet alliance and AI behavior have never been a strong point 
 with the total war series. The friendliness or cooperation can become down right nonexistent even 
 with the closets of allies. The only closeness is the AI has is with AI REBEL espionage characters 
 as they bypass all the other AI's Generals, Diplomats, Merchants, Princess and Religious figures 
 in a relentless pursuit of my Character assets. The lack of a cooperative multi player Campaign 
 has been a thorn in my side since the Total War series arrived. Princess seem to disappear after 
 marriage and from the Family tree which is kind of annoying. I also had one issue where I reentered 
 a city and my entire army was lost and it was my city not an enemy city but all these can be fixed 
 with patches but after 7 years of making the total war franchise some of these things should have 
 been dealt with before release and in previous games in the series. now that I said the bad things 
 about the game I love. The scale of the games single player campaign is immersive, as you sweep 
 and clear the world stage. The massive scope of military units textures between countries and sheer 
 size of the armies is awesome and the graphics are rich and vivid and the weather be it heavy snow 
 or pea soup fog is great. The graphics scalable to make older machine enjoy the game. I have always 
 been a fan of the family tree part orginising attack fronts based on family linage is a hard task. 
 The religious system is an extra feature that fleshes out the medieval era. I also love that they 
 brought back the clip video of spy's and assassins. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paulmg
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 10, 2007 7:56 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: It is the most fun and addicting game I have ever played. It's the best one in the series.
 
  
  Graphics: I'd give it a ten, but my rig can't handle anything above low quality...
  
  Sound: I love the music, but it gets kind of annoying when I'm chasing the enemy and one soldier 
 is screaming ''Run for the hills!'' ''Let's escape!'' and many more things at the same time.
  
  Value: Ultamite replayability in the campaign, I can play for hundreds of hours without getting 
 bored.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: I'm a great fan of war games, historical ones even more, so this game is perfect 
 fir me: 9.5 is what I give it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zircom
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 18, 2006 8:56 am PT
Review:  Medieval II: Total War has a lot to live up to, and for the most part succeeds on all levels. Some 
 of the new features like the subtle graphical changes to each individual unit are nice in theory, 
 but in reality don't drastically change the monotonous look seen in RTW. You still cannot argue 
 though when you see thousands of soldiers clash in front of you on the screen. While most RTS games 
 clog up your system with only dozens of poorly rendered units on screen (AOE III for example) , 
 this game really shines at bringing large, detailed battles to life. It does sacrifice some aesthetic 
 graphics at the cost of numbers, but the environment still looks great and is a substantial step 
 up from the previous games in the series. My one beef on the graphics end is that in the campaign 
 game the system will automatically omit units from joining battle if it thinks your computer cannot 
 handle the processing load. While it seems like a reasonable explanation (nobody wants their system 
 to lag in the middle of a critical battle) , it seems like it does this excessively often. I can 
 create custom battles with over 10,000 units at my current graphics settings before my system starts 
 to noticeable lag, yet the campaign game cuts off my reinforcements at only 3,000 units. This and 
 a few other minor graphical idiosyncrasies keep it out of the 10 range.
  
  Other new features such as religion and new agent units add depth and strategy to an already deep 
 game, but at the cost of over micro-management. It is almost impossible to create a well-rounded 
 empire, you find yourself forced down the narrow path of either religion, espionage, or warfare. 
 Catholic nations are always trying to please the pope and to reach the top of the religious game 
 you have to often utilize your armies to the detriment of your own empire. In addition, you will 
 spend much of your time moving your priests around to gain skill points in an attempt to become 
 head of the Catholic Church. If you want to focus on conquering your own empire, it is almost better 
 to abandon the church from the start and hope your Catholic neighbors don't get all Holy Grail 
 on you. The same is true with the other non-military units. While it is sometimes useful to take 
 out enemy buildings, steal resources, or assassinate leaders, it is often quicker just to build 
 a larger army that can sweep through your enemy's lands. While still a balanced game, Medieval 
 II tries to add a few too many features that distract from the battles. After several hundred years 
 in the game, I found myself auto calculating all battles and still spending a lot of time each 
 turn managing every little aspect of the game even with auto build and recruitment in place.
  
  Other aspects such as sound, multiplayer, and UI are good but not great. The sound effects 
 are solid and rich, but I felt like the musical score was a little lackluster compared to the previous 
 games. I haven't played much multiplayer, but as always, you only get custom battles, no campaign 
 type games. Even on high graphics settings, the UI seemed a little pixilated which no real enhancements 
 since Rome. Controls and icons are all about the same, but could use a little work. While some 
 of this is being picky, the Total War series has a lot to live up to and needs to continue to expand 
 all of the aspects of the game not just new features. This game is definitely worth the money and 
 by far one of the best games in the genre this year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jrdrumso5
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 18, 2006 6:42 am PT
Review:  If you are wondering if this will be worth your money, then I must assure you, it will. Ever since 
 playing Rome: Total War, people have wanted nothing more than a new Medieval version. And this 
 fulfills everyone's dreams. For a full guide on the good and bad, please continue reading!
  
  The New - Mini Movies, Council of Nobles, Pope, Diplomacy
  Let's start off with the brand 
 new. Atleast from RTW, anyways. The first feature that caught my eye was the new mini-movies for 
 the assassins and spies. Both hilarious and skillful, they will make you laugh even after watching 
 them three times. Whether your spy becomes or a bush or your assassins assassin snake fails, the 
 movies are interesting and an amazing feature. The next new feature is the equivalent of the Senate 
 in RTW. The Council of Nobles is a group within your country that more or less requests you to 
 take certain cities and make certain diplomatic relations. For the most part, these men have your 
 best interests in mind, and usually pay a small fee for your trouble of doing so. And if you do 
 not like them, they cannot do anything against you. Being intangible and essentially under your 
 Emperor's control, they will not tick you off. But, there is one who will tick you off. His name; 
 The Pope. Yes, the Holy One himself. As head of the Papal States, he is both a religious leader 
 and the leader of a powerful and rick faction stationed in Rome. From this city, he issues orders 
 to all of the good Catholic nations. Your standing with him depends on whether you obey his orders, 
 how many priests you control, the number of churches and cathedrals, and of course, how much you 
 can bribe him every now and then. Yes, the pope can be a pain sometimes, often telling two Catholic 
 nations to knock off the fighting or be excommunicated. And no one wants that. But, on the plus 
 side, he issues a mean Crusade. A Crusade against the holy cities can be a great idea if you need 
 to bring Catholic nations together, as well as conquer some Heathen cities at the same time. All 
 in all, the pope is a powerful figure, but can be overcome. And lastly, we will cover the new diplomacy 
 system. A very creative and new system, but still very similar to the prior systems. Like always, 
 you have a diplomat who travels from city to city making deals with your friends and enemies. However, 
 now you know what is likely to occur. The new system allows you to see how good your offer is, 
 and, when it is accepted or rejected, it will identify why and if the other faction hates you for 
 the offer. The new system also allows for gifts to be made. The pope unhappy with you? Other nation 
 preparing an invasion? Send a nice little gift to them, and then see if they are still so unhappy 
 with you. Whether monitary, or simply map information, it can be very useful. And that concludes 
 our NEW!
  
  Reviewers Favorite - Cows, Guilds, More on Crusades
  Yes, now its time for MY favorite features. First, the diseased cows. We all have heard of flinging 
 deadly, messy cows at the enemy, and this gives just that. Once you reach trebuchets, change the 
 ammo, and let the cows fly. Although not nearly as deadly as either the fire rocks or regular ammo, 
 the diseased cows leaves nasty, fly-ridden carcases all over the battle field. It is undoubtebly 
 the coolest feature since.... well, since those mini-movies above. The second thing is the new 
 guilds. Assassin, spy, Knights. All can build their guilds in your growing cities. If you allow 
 them to be built, you allow your city to host some of the best units in the game. Assassin and 
 spy guilds upgrade your, well, obviously, assassins and spies. The Tuetonic Knights Guild is, however, 
 probably the best. Atleast for the Holy Roman Empire. This guild allows some unique and powerful 
 units to be built in the city with this guild. And last on my favorite list, Crusades. The new 
 Crusades and Jihads are simply amazing. During my gameplay, the Arab nations decided to hold a 
 Jihad against the city of Bagdad. Within a few turns, the Islamic nations were swarming the city. 
 Soon after, the Catholic Pope Gregory I issues a Crusade against the city of Antioch. He personally 
 asked that my faction heir join the Crusade. Following orders, him and his father joined the Crusade. 
 While on a Crusade, your generals are able to recruit many new and powerful Crusading units. This 
 may include a giant cross, which boosts morale, or Holy Fanatics who, although weak, can pack a 
 mean punch in numbers. Some of the most unique units can only be bought on these Crusades. Now, 
 back to my Crusade. On my way to Antioch, the Catholic faction of Venice attacked me, but also 
 joined the Crusade. We set our differances aside, and together we captured the Crusade's objective. 
 It was an amazing feat of Catholic might. And that must conclude MY FAVORITE!
  
  The Bad - If you can call it that
  Well, a game cannot be perfect, and this is no exception. 
 Now, in my humble opinion, the worst part of this game (although worst seems strong, it was not 
 nearly that bad) is the graphics. I was expecting a much more cleaner game, but it still seemed 
 a bit choppy in the long run. Even on nearly the highest settings possible, the graphics did not 
 seem to be up to what I had expected to see. In the one on one battles against the computer, I 
 had many problems with lag, but it was the graphics that stopped me from continueing the battle. 
 But, do not let this deture you. The campaign map is still everything you could imagine, and, although 
 not my favorite, the battles can still be spectacular.
  
  Thank you for reading, and I hope it was a help in your decision to get this wonderful game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: onehung
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 18, 2006 6:15 am PT
Review:  Just look at the reviews already posted and you'll see the majority agree aswell, Medieval II: 
 Total War is a brilliant strategic game that brings together some of the most intense and visually 
 stunning 3D battles with a campaign map that is just as engrossing.
  
  It treads on all that Rome: Total War accomplished and them some. The biggest feature this time 
 around is again the graphics, which is just phenomenal. If you have the right system and set everything 
 on high, you'll be treated with the best models and special fx in it's genre. The only other game 
 that comes to mind may be Warhammer: Mark of Chaos. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scvido
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 18, 2006 4:05 am PT
Review:  Well how do you begin to describe a game like this?
  Rome Total War was a huge classic but Medieval 2 is not the king and is destined to go down in 
 gaming history as the best RTS war game!
  
  1 - Graphics are amazing
  2 - Sound and music = amazing
  3 - incredible gameplay improvements over Rome Total War... ADDICTIVE!!!
 
  4 - Compaign map looks 1000 times better
  5 - You must buy this game or stop gaming.
  
  The improvements are huge and the just as Civilization IV where it included religion, now religion 
 plays a big part in the game, holy crusades and pope missions are there, assassination and spies 
 are there......
  
  i won't waste your time describing a game that is too hard to describe.
  
  GO GET IT and stop 
 wasting your time for cryin' out loud! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Giantsfan22
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 3, 2007 10:36 pm PT
Review:  OK, since I will talk about how awesome the graphics are or how cool all the huge battle are, I 
 will focus on the bugs right now.
  
  A couple main ones that cause me to wait until the patch to continue playing.
  
  1- Passive 
 AI. The Devs said it is a side effect of actually making the AI more aggressive and was caught 
 to late to be fixed before gold. They say it will be fixed in the first patch. If so, the game 
 gets much better. What is it? Well, if you are a ranged heavy army (and I am even with the french) , 
 they until you really start to engage in melee, the only thing the enemy will really do is trade 
 shots with you or at worst, get hammered by archers and just stand there. If you are an infantry 
 or cavalry heavy army, this is not that major but still annoying. If you are like me and like to 
 soften up the enemy before engaging, this is a showstopping bug.
  EDIT: This has been fixed in the patch. The enemy engages now.
  
  2-Cavalry- the cavalry just 
 dont hit with a charge with enough damage. EDIT: Somewhat fixed. Its still hard to get a good charge 
 but thats the way it should be. I personally would make it a little easier but i understand why 
 they didnt. 3. Siege weapons diappearing. Not a major complaint but a little annoying. EDIT FIXED 
 Other than that, there really isnt anything else I see glaringly wrong. People have mention a sige 
 bug that happens when an enemy gets down to 1 ladder but i havent seen it.
  
  The game is simply great and with a few fixes, will (IMO) be game of the year. I give this a 7.9 
 but I will give it at least a 9 if the passive ai is fixed. EDIT: Having played the patched verion 
 at length, I can tell you that the game is still a candidate for GOTY. Why... what else is there 
 like it. If there is one major (and i use that loosely) flaw, its that if you played Rome and got 
 sick of it, the game is very similar. Think of it like this. Rome was vanilla ice cream and M2TW 
 is vanilla ice cream with hot fudge and sprinkles. Different but the bases is still very much the 
 same. That being said, with all the nations available, the much better campaign ai, and all the 
 cool units in there, you will loose many an hour in this game. One thing, go to twcenter. net and 
 download or post to find fixes for the 2-handed bug. It will make the game much more balanced. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ko_threat
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 17, 2006 9:13 pm PT
Review:  I have, and always will be, a great fan of strategy games. Though, one type of strategy game never 
 appealed to me, and that was turn based, this, of course, was before I found Medieval: Total War. 
 At first I only played the demo of Medieval: Total War however, I was no where near hooked at that 
 moment. So I went along playing Starcraft, Warcraft, and all the other critically acclaimed RTS 
 games. Then one day my brother brought home Medieval: Total War and as soon as I played it, I was 
 hooked! It was almost seamlessly able to blend real time strategy with turn based strategy. I had 
 a blast playing that game.
  
  Now time has passed, I beat Medieval: Total War time and again, ended up losing the playing discs, 
 so I havent been able to play recently. Played Rome: Total War but it was just too easy. So when 
 I hear Medieval 2: Total War came out I got excited.
  
  After waiting months, Ive been able to finally buy the game, and I can say that I am not disappointed 
 in any way at all. The game is like Medieval: Total War but its fixed many problems that game had, 
 and made it look much better. The main problem I had with Rome: Total War is that it was too easy 
 and to short, I beat the short campaign on Rome in about 3 - 4 hours. However, I started the Medieval 
 2 short campaign at 3pm this after noon, and by 8pm, I still hadn't beaten it. The battles are 
 astounding, sieges much more enveloping, and the game just sucks you in.
  
  My only grief with this game is that the game play is pretty much identical to Medieval 1, that 
 is nowhere near a bad thing, but they could have done something to spruce it up a bit.
  
  So in conclusion, the game, while similar to its predecessor, is amazing
  and truly worth the 
 price tag. Expect an enveloping and rich game that will undoubtedly zap much time out of your life. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacobob
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 17, 2006 4:21 pm PT
Review:  My first impressions of this game was that it is massive! You not only get to battle and scheme 
 your way to dominating western europe but you also get to dominate as far west as the American 
 Continental East Coast and as far East as the Middle East. Not to mention that you can go from 
 Norway to Saharan Africa!
  
  Luckily it is possible to let the AI take on some of the responsibilities of ruling a gynormous 
 empire. The sheer amount of detail and options is astounding, would otherwise be a little daunting.
 
  
  I don't own a top end system and I am very pleased with the graphics in this game. Eventhough there 
 can be a ridiculous amount of models on screen at the same time, they actually look like armies. 
 (There is plenty of settings room to take advantage of higher end systems however if you're fortunate 
 enough to have one)
  
  In short it's the kind of game that has you glimpsing at the clock in shock as you realise that 
 it's 3am on a work night, yet keep on playing just a few more minutes . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJBartley
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 17, 2006 2:32 pm PT
Review:  I don't usually get too excited about new games coming out, I am more of the type to wait till 
 they have been out a while read some reviews and buy the ones I like later after the prices have 
 gone down a little. But after seeing the trailers and reading about this game, I got so excited 
 and I wasn't disappointed in fact I was completely blown away. I am a big RTS fan and I have to 
 say this is the best game out there and completely dominates anything that has come before. With 
 that all said. The Graphics are amazing on both the world map and for the battles it lets you zoom 
 in close to the action like in Empire Earth, but looks way better. Also all I have is a 126 video 
 card, 2.1 processor and it works great for me.
  
  The other thing the game offers is a ton of replayabiltiy I have played for hours and I havent 
 even seen everything. Also the one thing I always wanted in a RTS game was a diplomacy system that 
 worked more realistically and in this game you can do a variety of things on a dimplomatic scale 
 like marry away a family member to cement an alliance or put a town under siege to force negotiations, 
 to name a few.
  
  So if you are a fan of games like Age of Empires, Empire Earth, and Rise of Nations. Then all I 
 have to say is that this is a hands down must buy. Because those games suck compared to this one. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soultaker_it
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 17, 2006 2:33 pm PT
Review:  quote from gamespot review: Unfortunately, enemy turns take a tediously long time to resolve on 
 the default settings, as you have to sit and wait for every unit in sight to make its move. You 
 can turn enemy movements off and the turns will go by much quicker, though you do lose the chance 
 to see what the enemy is doing during its turns. 
  
  Try spacebar, like rome btw...
  
  Anyway if they manage to do some kind of multiplayer caimpaign would be my best game ever, and 
 I have a LOT of game. So keep it up Creative Assembly, and maybe I can look for a mod :-D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: argetlam00
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 17, 2006 1:26 pm PT
Review:  The Total War series have never failed but never in my entire life of gaming have I ever seen anything 
 like this!!
  This game is the only thing that comes close to the action that is seen in movies such as Braveheart 
 and Kingdom of Heaven. Medieval 2: Total War promised to be good and it is AMAZING!!!!
  
  Let me take you through the steps:
  
  Gameplay: I'll cut off the sack between my legs if you 
 find a better Turn Based/RTS then this. The combat is beautiful with the crazy cool fighting animations 
 and finishing moves. It makes it look like the men are actually fighting for their lives and is 
 a gigantic step forward from the stupid slapping they did in Rome. The campaign is vastly improved 
 and many new gameplay features such as Merchants and improved diplomacy have been added. To summarize 
 it, what Rome did good, Medieval 2 does better.
  
  Graphics: The best in a strategy game. Medieval 2 is beautiful in every way. From the campaign 
 map to the battlefield, this game looks gorgeous! There are no more clone armies and no more feeble 
 environments. The environment looks even better than the soldiers, who look fantastic. The forests 
 are dense and realistically beautiful. So are the rocks and the grass and the water. There are 
 no more clone armies and the soldiers look greatly detailed. The effects are gorgeous and the cities 
 are realistic. To summarize it, the most beautiful RTS available.
  
  Sound: The sound is once again great. I love the music and the voice acting. The characters sound 
 very realistic and believable and the music fits amazingly well with the chaos of battle. The sound 
 effects are also good. You hear everything from sword clings to screams of dying men and hundreds 
 of foot steps hitting the ground. The voices however can get quite annoying, especially the stupid 
 advisor who screams at you for doing something wrong.
  
  Value: You will surely get your moneys worth here. The game isn't VERY different from Rome but 
 the changes, animations and graphical improvements the game delivers make it a very good buy. If 
 you have not played Rome, then this game should take your life away. If you have played Rome, then 
 this will be a very addicting game. The great community this game has is also worth motioning. 
 Give it a couple of months and we will be seeing even better mods then we did in Rome.
  
  Tilt: The game does have a couple of bugs especially the annoying cavalry bug but these will be 
 fixed in the next patch. BUY THE KING OF GAMES!!!!
  
  Reviewer: Argetlam00
  Editor: Your Mom 
::::::

::::::
UserName: P1zzaman
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 17, 2006 11:22 am PT
Review:  Creative Assembly has gone back and revist the Medieval Europe setting once again. This game is 
 very beautiful. The animation and graphics are superb given the amount of 3D units on screen.
 
  
  The game is just plain fun for those who are familiar to the Total War series, but might need a 
 bit time to get used to for new comers.
  
  The campaign map looks very similar to that of Rome, with higher resolution textures. The animation 
 of the units have improved drastically and the fighting looks more realistic. There are some glaring 
 bugs though like the Passive A. I. and just siege A. I in general, but those will be addressed in 
 a patch coming soon.
  
  The battles are a lot more exciting and intense than that of Rome Total War and the previous ones. 
 Your men take more casualties and you rarely get a sweeping victory when fighting against even 
 odds.
  
  The music is great but not as memorable as the first Medieval music, but definetely has more variety 
 of music. There are different victory and defeat musics and location sensitive music as well.
 
  
  Multiplayer hasn't really changed much unfortunately and the promised multiplayer enhancements 
 are no where to be found.
  
  Pick up the game if you are a Total War veteran or if you like large realtime epic scale battles 
 with a good involving turn based strategy campaign.
  
  This is a good addition to the Total War collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firebat11
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 17, 2006 11:11 am PT
Review:  I loved Rome, it was an amazing game that I could keep coming back to and play. I have played as 
 every faction several times and I still come back for more. Medieval 2: Total War goes one step 
 further when I thought it couldn't get any better.
  
  The best feature I enjoy is sieges. The sieges in Rome were fun, but once a unit got on those walls, 
 it was a pain to get them off. In Medieval 2, units don't all rush for the gate and get pummelled 
 when the defenders are all grouped there. NO, the units will continue climbing up those ladders, 
 and siege towers and then engage their foes. Also when a unit routs they don't just stay there 
 and die on those walls (like in Rome) , they climb back down the ladders or off the walls and run 
 away like they should. SIMPLY AMAZING.
  
  My only beef with battles is the cavalry. Although they look amazing, they tend to run around and 
 around in circles sometimes (maybe a patch later will fix this) .
  
  I love the battles in this game, but I love the Grand Campaign map just as much. Dealing with the 
 pope alone is so cool and if you piss him off then you'll get excommunicated and other Catholic 
 factions start to attack you (which I've seen first hand) . You end up spending tons of money to 
 reconcile with the Pope if he doesn't die of old age first. College of Cardinals system just plain 
 rocks, as does diplomacy.
  
  Diplomacy is SO much more evolved from Rome, in that I can actually barter with people and end 
 up with a monetary sum at the end or get a nice settlement out of it. In Rome there was so much 
 mystery in the diplomacy, but the Creative Assembly did an excellent job here (WELL DONE!!)
  
  I haven't really experienced a crusade yet mostly because my stupid general dies (for various 
 reasons) before I even get to the crusade spot and then of course the rest of the army deserts.
 
  
  I thought the short campaign was short. NO WAY. Even in the short campaign you'll spend hours after 
 hours trying to get what you need to win. Plus you'll find that the game isn't easy, its quite 
 challenging but overly fun at the same time.
  
  In sum this is a must buy for any Total fans, or for beginners to the series. GO AND GET THIS GAME 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Runmymouth
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 17, 2006 10:43 am PT
Review:  This game out of the box had a small error with my labtop. I had to wait like 5 minutes for it 
 to load the cd to the install screen on my labtop. I got bored and decieded to just through it 
 on my desktop. Threw it on my desktop and ran right away. I am thinking it is a new security measure 
 that made it take forever to load on my labtop. After installing, I loaded it up and was treated 
 to the typical intro. I decided to run the tuturial since it has been a while since I have played 
 rome total war. The tutorial starts with combat, and it is fairly detailed and reaquants you wtih 
 the combat system or shows you how to do it if you have no experience. Then I loaded the campaign 
 map tutorial. Same story. Then I started my first game at 8 pm. At 2 pm I realized it was time 
 to go to bed. The AI in this version of the game is much more intelligent and no longer lets you 
 sit on your own out of combat. This made the game much more challenging and difficult. The graphics 
 are amazing. The individual units are all unique, making the overal gameplay more imersive. The 
 music is nice but not perfect. Not sure what would make the music better, but it is lacking a little. 
 This game I know will keep me coming back for more becuase of the ability to pick a different faction 
 next time and play with them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: merloslacker
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 17, 2006 8:54 am PT
Review:  Medieval 2: Total War is the best in the series yet. With the plot of the the Original the movement 
 of Rome: Total War and the all out battles, this game is off the hook! The learning curve is easy 
 if you've played other Total War games, and the mirco-managing is really in-depth. However make 
 sure you have a high class system, you'll need it to fully play this game. That said, the game 
 includes less provinces then the original and the map takes more time to cross since your waling 
 Rome: Total War style across mountains and hill terrain. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guardianNJ
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 17, 2006 6:01 am PT
Review:  If you like Realtime strategy games and mid-age time with large army battles with knights etc you 
 should definitly get this one!
  I played all the other versions but this one is just even better... way better.
  
  Let me tell 
 you:
  
  Graphics:
  
  Breathtaking graphics! Just right.
  You can see every little detail, some wear other kinds of armor then the soldier next to them or 
 their horses have different colours.
  So they dont look all the same.
  You can start in day/night/sunset/afternoon etc, great to see it.
  Its nice to see the flameable 
 arrows in the sky at night.. You dont want to get hit by them.
  The movies are also impressive. When you assign a mission to an assasin or scout a movie plays 
 which can turn out good or bad.
  
  GamePlay:
  
  Very good and easy to learn... Theres a tutorial too. Though you need to give it some time to get 
 skilled. But that makes its just interesting if you find out more and more.
  Also, the soldiers all act different when in a large group. And some may show their anger to the 
 enemy, or retreat. You never know.
  But sometimes some soldiers are just waiting and standing there when the enemy is one feet near 
 them cutting them to pieces.. but you dont see that much when there are thousands of men fighting. 
 Very impressive to see!
  There is a huge campaign, Whole europe, asia to explore.
  or you can do a skirmish game, in many different kinds of maps from desert to snow.
  
  Also 
 there are many different units and countries.
  From peasants to knights, horses, even cannons, trebuchets with good sound that makes the camera 
 shake. Nice effects. Animations are very well done.
  
  You can send orders to all the soldiers, formations, behaviour etc.
  
  Camera views:
  
 
  The camera is real nice, you can go to ground level, turn 360 degrees.
  Imagine you are standing in the grass near a thousand soldiers, archers, swordsman, knights, all 
 ready for battle with the enemy infront of you. Then attack with a powerfull charge... This really 
 gives you that feeling that you're in it.
  
  Settings:
  
  You need a good comp to play on the most high settings though.
  I have AMD3800+ Manchester, ati1900xt, 
 2048MB memory and its possible to play all high, but when it gets to the thousands soldiers it 
 gets a little bit slower... but still playable.
  Even on low or medium settings you have great graphics and gameplay.
  
  Ok i guess this is 
 enough info for now :)
  
  They really did a good job on this one... i say its absolutely worth that money if youre an RTS 
 fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aruel100
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 16, 2006 8:50 pm PT
Review:  The graphics are awesome. Even on the medium setting, the graphics could blast you all the way 
 to the sun.
  However, I should emphasize that you need not just a good computer but an excellent one if you 
 want to turn the settings all the way to the top. My computer struggles to display anything more 
 than 1000 units on the high setting so i just go on medium. The graphics aside, I should say that 
 the music is incredible too. Lastly, I should say that this is probably a very hard game to master 
 if you have not played any other total war games before. However of this, I must say the goodness 
 of this game more than makes up for its difficulty.
  Laying and defending cities is now very very cool. (way more than in rome TW) .... The only bad thing 
 which by the way is not that troublesome because its not always bad, is the AI. SOMETIMES (not 
 that often) it does stupid stuff. But that aside, this game is hella fun. +the greatest graphics 
 in any RTS+ the awesomest soundtrack.... yea.....
  ...... basically you must get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yodaman23
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 16, 2006 7:25 pm PT
Review:  First lets get to the packaging. For the 50 dollar price tag, assuming you can get the limited 
 edition version which has no price difference from the normal copy you get a soundtrack (see below) , 
 full map, and to my surprise a two disc history channel special on the crusades. For history buffs 
 like myself this is a great deal.
  
  Game play: Game play fits for both the real time and turn based strategy buff. For those that could 
 go either way depending on mood, it will defiantly be an enjoyable experience. The real time battles 
 are a challenge and are a blast to play. Don't expect to just charge in though, this is one of 
 the few games out there that require real tactics. The games units boil down to the same rock paper 
 scissors formula that marks every strategy game, (cavalry beats missile, spear beats cavalry, missile 
 beats spear, with some extras thrown in.) This is of course a bit of a generalization as if your 
 scissors are sharp or if you cut the rock at a right piece you can win the day. (Obscure and confusing 
 metaphor.) There are a few bugs that are noticeable only to the really observant ones, however 
 the biggest problem with this game is AI path finding issues. At times when I ordered my troops 
 through a gate and into the town square they would leave the town and just sit outside in the field 
 as if the AI just said, Screw this, I'm gonna stage a sit in! This doesn't happen too often but 
 enough for you to notice it.
  
  Graphics:
  By far the best in the series and possibly the best in any strategy game to date. It has a gritty 
 realism and the troop animations are amazing. gone are the clone armies of the past, now each soldier 
 looks different, and will fight realistically, they even have finisher moves. The graphics are 
 great on both the campaign map and the battle field.
  
  Sound:
  The sound track is wonderfully done and the battle sounds are spot on. It might even bring a giddy 
 laugh to you when the Scottish diplomat shows up and actually has a Scottish accent. Value:
  As stated above for 50 dollars you get the game, soundtrack, a nice manual, packaging, a full color 
 map, and a two disk history channel special. I'd say that great value.
  
  Overall a good game, I love it and must mentally drag myself away from it before three in the morning. 
 Its addicting and fun for any strategy fan, especially if your a fan of the series already. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: huangzhihao
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 16, 2006 7:18 pm PT
Review:  Medieval 2 Total War is a great game just like all the total war games i have played. The graphic 
 is amazing, if you can turn the setting to ultra. Shadow, reflection, unit detail...... all are 
 one step ahead of other RTS and war games.
  Not just the visual quality, but the new comebat system is also a big jump compare to the previous 
 total war games. Parry, counter strike, finishing move..... all made the battle field worth the 
 time to look at when zoomed all in. And much more small tweaks added to improve the grand campaign....
 
  
  However, the game suffers from some serious AI problems. Often you can find out your enemies just 
 stand there waiting for your archers to get in range and shower them to hell. Sometimes even if 
 they move, they are just running back and forth and let your range units kill them quicker..... In 
 siege battle, the AI will simply try to destroy part of your wall and ALL swarm in at once, without 
 order, without any tactic. Feels even the AI in rome was better.
  
  Now, the game is 2 years per turn, and have only around 250 turns..... which doesn't make any sense 
 since it will only make the game very short. personally, i made it 4 turns per years, giving myself 
 enough time to full enjoy one campaign.
  
  Units' statues is also a problem. many knights and cavalry from differente factions have totally 
 same attack and defence points. I know the developers were trying to balance the game out, but 
 it's going too far. I like it to be a little bit more historical.
  
  there are lots to say, but i know lots patches and mods will come out soon to make the game better. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mmissile35
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 16, 2006 6:45 pm PT
Review:  As I said, I am very excited about this game, as I was starting to lose my faith in new computer 
 games (only other one I've been excited about is Company of Heroes) . With all the unfinished over-hyped 
 junk that has been passing through, I was beginning to think that I had out-grown gaming. This 
 game is proof that I was wrong!
  
  I'm nowhere near finishing the campaign, but I am blown away with this game. Every aspect of the 
 game is new for me, as I am a total newcomer to the series. The game is hard, but that's how I 
 like it -- you get that feeling of accomplishment as if you were playing against real people! (I 
 haven't played the multiplayer yet, but I intend to) .
  
  Other reviews here get into the specifics better than I could -- I'll just say that this game is 
 definitely worth the money. If you're on the fence about buying this game -- listen to me and do 
 it!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kendal000
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 16, 2006 3:02 pm PT
Review:  hmmmm i had been waiting for this game for months since i first read about it on GS. and ive finally 
 got it and i think its amazing while the AI can still be pretty dumb its still fun and the graphics 
 look great. but as with every new game there are bugs but CA is going to be sorting them out soon. 
 i find the music brilliant it fits the scene well and gameplay has improved alot to with alot of 
 extra additions which are as simple as diplomats talking but it gives it that something extra. 
 dispite the minor bugs its a great game and when the patches start coming out will get even better. 
 id say deffinately buy it but make sure your rig is quite beefy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: teemu
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 16, 2006 8:27 am PT
Review:  What can you say about this game! It's just great from beginning to end! Medieval 2 is a MUST for 
 all you strategy fans and I would even recommend others to try it out.
  Good tutorial that lets you get to know the game well, very much like it's prequels did. The game 
 itself has many aspects to think of besides the managing and using your armies. Diplomacy, trade 
 and religion are at least as important and forget one and you might be swearing after awhile, because 
 your lands are being attacked by other kingdoms or foreign merchants using your lands resources 
 or the worst that the pope excommunicates! So keep your eyes open and be shrewd to defeat and conquer 
 your enemies.
  Good luck in your conquest! God speed! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pakitoxocolater
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 16, 2006 8:08 am PT
Review:  S&Oacute; LO SE PUEDE DEFINIR CON: ESPECTACULAR.
  EL MOVIMIENTO DE LAS TROPAS, LAS LUCHAS INDIVIDUALES, LAS CARGAS, LOS PROYECTILES, LOS ASEDIOS... Y 
 TODO ELLO CON UNOS GR&Aacute; FICOS QUE TE IMPRESIONAN Y UN BUEN SONIDO.
  EL &Uacute; NICO FALLO ES QUE QUIZ&Aacute; LAS CARGAS DE CABALLER&Iacute; A DEBER&Iacute; AN SER M&Aacute; S 
 PROFUNDAS , ES DECIR, DEBER&Iacute; AN ATRAVESAR POR COMPLETO LA FROMACI&Oacute; N ENEMIGA PARA CREAR 
 UN EFECTO A&Uacute; N M&Aacute; S DEVASTADOR, EN LUGAR DE PARARSE A LA SEGUNDA FILA. A PARTE DE ESTO, 
 LA NOVEDAD DE LOS CAD&Aacute; VERES EN EL CAMPO DE BATALLA ES TODO UN ACIERTO.
  EN CUANTO AL MAPA ESTRAT&Eacute; GICO HAY MUCHAS M&Aacute; S OPCIONES QUE EN ROME Y POR SUPUESTO, 
 QUE EN MEDIEVAL... LOS PERSONAJES, LAS BODAS, LA RELIGI&Oacute; N, LAS ESPECTACULARES MISIONES DE 
 LAS CRUZADAS, DECISIONES ENTRE CIUDADES O CASTILLOS.
  IMPRESCINDIBLE. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bolshevika
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 18, 2006 12:42 am PT
Review:  Where Rome: Total War set a new standard for the subgenre the series had already been dominating, 
 Medieval 2 has met that standard while still managing to add enough changes to keep things interesting.
 
  
  Its difficult to imagine a world without the Total War series. The first one pretty much single 
 handedly invented a new strategy sub genre and each successive game has built on that winning formula. 
 Changes
  
  Combat: The look and feel of combat is now much more brutal. The finishing moves in particular, 
 are very satisfying to see, although usually you'll be too busy directing a battle to watch them. 
 Flanking and rear attacks seem less effective overall however. Also some unit AI seems to have 
 a couple of bugs, not unlike the constantly sidestepping Phalanxes of Rome: Total War. Cavalry 
 in particular seemed to struggle determining when to switch from their lance (or spear) to a sword 
 (or mace) . The removal of Clone Armies does not seem like a big issue, until you see it on the 
 battlefield. The unit diversity adds a lot to the new, grittier feel of the combat. Overall, some 
 good improvements, but needs some patching.
  
  Characters: Both Dynasty members and regular agents now have more mission options and traits. This 
 makes everyone much more interesting, while also making them more useful. Assassins have been toned 
 down a bit, requiring more experience before they become truly effective. Merchants have also been 
 added to the game, and need to be deployed to your territorial resources in order to get any profit 
 from them. They arn't that effective at this point, barely recovering their own cost, but this 
 issue will probably see some adjustments. Overall, good improvements.
  
  Religion: Love it or hate it, Religion played a key role in politics of the Middle Ages and its 
 inclusion, while not perfect, certainly adds another layer of strategy. The Jihads and Crusades 
 play well, offering a good danger/reward ratio. Inquisitors also can play a key role. Should ones 
 relationship with the Pope begin falling (Which you can keep high, by fulfilling Papal missions 
 much like the Roman Senate) , or ones lands be consumed by heresy, Inquisitors will arrive and begin 
 putting everyone they find on trial. This typically results in any leaders or agents with average 
 or below piety ratings burning at the stake until either the Pope calls off the Inquisition or 
 they can't find anyone else to burn. They are a serious danger and feel somewhat unbalanced. Historically 
 I don't recall many Kings being burned as heretics, let alone entire royal families and all extended 
 relatives, yet its not an unheard of occurrence in the game, so this issue may see future patching. 
 The Papacy itself adds a new dimension which you can completely ignore, but working one of your 
 priest into position to become the Pope is extremely advantageous to you (Or whoever scores their 
 man the Big Hat) allowing you to call crusades, make war against other Catholics, and rest safe 
 from the inquisition. Overall, a good addition to the game that adds a nice layer of content.
 
  
  The New World:
  Adventures in the New World, while limited, are an excellent addition. For those willing to take 
 the financial risk to send exploration forces across the ocean, the rewards can be great. They 
 can also lead to disaster. The Aztecs aren't as fleshed out as they could be, and many of their 
 units seem redundant, but they make for a mighty foe on the higher difficulty settings and plundering 
 their Golden Cities can help turn the tide of battle back in the Old World. A good addition of 
 optional content.
  
  City/Castle:
  Now, each territory offers up the option of housing either a City or a Castle. The differences 
 are very pronounced, and important. Cities offer higher income, more trade and economic bonuses 
 as well as tax rates which you can set. This comes at the cost of not being able to produce as 
 many units, and weaker defenses. Castles offer just the opposite. Higher unit availability, much 
 higher defensive options, but reduced (Although not negligible) income and only medium taxation. 
 This forces you to chose carefully about the nature of your empire, especially the border territories. 
 The only downside, is that as your border expand, certain castles will become defunct and require 
 conversion into a city. Luckily it will maintain its size (Both cities and castles increase in 
 size and capacity over time) although it comes with a sizable conversion cost. Overall a nice change 
 that adds a new layer of depth to the game.
  
  Conclusion:
  
  This is an evolutionary step in the series, much as Medieval 1 was to Shogun. Aside from a few 
 annoying bugs, (Actually quite close to the same bugs Rome had initially) its a very solid step. 
 Definitely the pinnacle of the series, and should not be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Dukes
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 15, 2006 7:22 pm PT
Review:  Well heres the deal... Very good game, very simalar to rome: total war except the graphics have 
 been overhauled and the battles take place in mid-evil times. I dont know if its Better than rome 
 total war, but its deffinitly on the same level, very good game, im not going to rate it lower 
 do to the fact it doesnt have a houndred new features than its little bro Rome... because rome and 
 this game both, have ALL the features you'd ever want plus some! There is a ton of factions... 
 almost to many, but its great for online play do to the fact you NEVER know what your enimies are 
 going to bring to the table... and likwise! An absolute blast, although it is a bit of a system 
 hog! I say if you liked RTW in any way what so ever, purchase this game! you will not be disappointed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tylowill
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 15, 2006 4:36 pm PT
Review:  Thank you Ceative Assebly for this amazing peice of Art.
  This is masterful, like every game since Shogun that The Creative Assembly has produced. The Diplomacy 
 function has new life. This will stay on your machine for years, or until a sequel to Rome. I will 
 be confined to my room, my wife will feel scorned and my work ethic will suffer, all because of 
 this peice of art. I would like to see Hollywood do something this good. The soundtrack is stunning 
 and the visuals on battle mode are incredible. The campaigne map has also had a face lift. The 
 city/castle feature adds quite a bit to the dynamics of the game, as you have to balence between 
 revenue producing towns or strong castles for defence. There are a few minor bugs that in no way 
 outnumber the good, and true to the good reputation of CA I expect a patch along shortly to fix 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CooperDJ
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 15, 2006 11:33 am PT
Review:  Just picked up Medieval II: Total Way yesterday. My first thought about the game after reading 
 some of your reviews, especially some of the more negative ones, was that this game would be somewhat 
 of a flop. Did i expect it would be pretty much the same as RTW? Yes. Did i expect that the level 
 of gameplay had not been enhanced as much as some of the promotions may have had me believe? Yes. 
 Is this still a great game?? You bet your ass it is. Simple fact of the matter is that, if it aint 
 broke, don't fix it . What has worked with the Total War series is what has worked with the Total 
 War Series. Yes it's not quite as innovative now as it once was especially with the release of 
 Rome: Total War.... but it's still a **** of fun to play.
  
  I for one am elated at the fact Creative Assembly decided to return to the Medieval period. After 
 playing Rome , it just seemed like there were too many stones unturned in regards to the age of 
 Chivalry, Crusades, and Religious oppression. So many things that weren't there in the original 
 Medieval, have shown up in this game and so far it's been a lot of fun.
  
  Of course the graphics are amazing. I really like the look and sounds associated with the Campaign 
 map.... the world just seems more alive. When you expand your farming industry, you can see little 
 farms pop up all around you provinces.... little details like this make the experience that much 
 more fun for me.
  
  The battles are great.... although not quite as graphically pleasing as i'd wanted. I thought i'd 
 get to see a good amount of varied fighting moves used by mine and enemy troops, there could be 
 more..... when you are zoomed about halfway out it looks really cool, but when you zoom all the 
 way in you can tell the action is manufatured completely. I suppose my standards are set a little 
 too high in this regard, but one other small nuance i'd like to see and this applies to all who 
 develop these games with epic 3d battles is a little more mix up when arming slam together and 
 fight in greusome melee on the battlefield.
  
  I've never understood why programmers haven't been able to simulate the effect that when two armies 
 clash into one another and the fight develops, the untis tend to intermingle more.... instead of 
 pretty much just the front ranks of both armies doing a majority of the fighting. It's like Unit 
 A can only stand on THEIR side of the fight and Unit B can only stand on THEIR side and let the 
 guys in from hack away at each other. Maybe programming such that each individual soldier is more 
 agressive and attacks the nearest enemy while mantaining the spacing that has been implemented 
 so well in Melee's now... i dunno...
  
  Great sound, and i love the Merchants too..... i always remember seeing those little resource graphics 
 on the Rome map and never really getting to interact with them. Now one can. I haven't done it 
 yet, but i can't wait to go on my first crusade.... should be fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Drivingfaith909
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 15, 2006 11:09 am PT
Review:  Just bought it yesterday and am very impressed. I have played everything that Total War has put 
 out, and I can conclude that Rome was my favorite. To me, it seems as though the same problems 
 you found in the battle map in Rome are still existant in MTW2. Example; If you have a few cavalry 
 units selected and tell them to attack a certain target, some will actually obey your command and 
 others will run off and attack whom they please. If you have a group of archers selected and grouped 
 and tell them to attack a certain target, they will fire all over the place. To get them to do 
 this, you have to select each of the archer units and individually tell them to attack the target. 
 Another dislike is the unit recruitment system. I prefer the old TW system, and am not used to 
 this new one. BTW, if you feel like you're low on money, you can use the same cheat in Rome by 
 pressing ~ and then typing add_money #####. I believe the maximum you can enter at once is 40,000. 
 Also, the cheat to remove the fog of war still works. toggle_fow disable/enable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mbouchey
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 15, 2006 10:31 am PT
Review:  If you have read the gamespot review, it is pretty accurate. I would have to agree with most of 
 what is said in that review. We'll start with the battles. Remember Rome Total War where there 
 were all sorts of neat glitches like your spears could attack the enemies through your walls, and 
 the enemy would run up to your walls, even after they had no more seige equipment untill your towers 
 killed them all. Or perhaps how they would just rush helter skelter at you without increadible 
 use of tactics untill the harder difficulties. Well no more. There are no glitches that I have 
 found in this battle system. The AI is as smart as you might expect any human player to be, although 
 not as unpredictable, and even the medium setting will be a challenge. The fighting looks glorious. 
 I like to pick one of my troops and watch his progress throughout the battle. Even when I have 
 to go to a different part of the battle field to issue new orders, I can usually find my little 
 friend now that the clone armies are gone. I watch as he engages an enemy and unleashes a flurry 
 of combination attacks while the enemy frantically tries to parry his charge, then he moves on 
 to the next enemy, who exchanges blows with my man, finally knocking him to the ground, only to 
 get stabbed by another of my troops as he tries to place the finishing blow. My man stands up, 
 shaken from the near death experience, and moves on to his next victim. Never before has such closness 
 with one soldier been achieved, when there are thousands on the battle field at once.
  
  The outside of combate gameplay is spectacular as well. Even when you are not getting in to battles, 
 there is plenty to do, trying to improve your standings among other nations (especially the pope 
 and the papal states) and trying to improve your ranking among the other european nations. This 
 is not easy either, as your allies tend to be fickle, waiting for the right moment, when you have 
 placed just a bit too much trust in your alliance, and then back stabbing you at the opportune 
 moment. In the mean time, you have had a hard enough time as it is managing your finances, now 
 you have a war on your hands, and then the pope gets mad at you every time you try to retaliate 
 against your aggressore. It is a nasty, dangerous game of politics that will engrose you utterly. 
 The learning curve is a bit long, even for total war gamers. It is more like Rome than the first 
 Mideaval, but has a lot of unique aspects, so take the time to glance over the manual and keep 
 it handy as the game pans out.
  
  I was a bit miffed to find that there are only five factions you can play when you start, and, 
 unlike Rome, you have to beat an entire campaign to unlock the rest. More and more do not appear 
 as you get further in the campaign. However, there is enough to do in one faction's campaign that 
 this is not too much of a deterant. While gamespot did not like the lack of multiplayer, I am not 
 much concerned about that. I dont know why any more than battles was even expected to be in multiplayer, 
 it has never been before. While I agree that it would be very cool, I think it would be a bit complicated. 
 Lets give these guys a little bit more time to develope a really good system for more comrehensive 
 multiplayer, maybe by then we can play out the naval battles tactically, but again, this is only 
 wishful thinking.
  
  Finally the sound of the game was majestic. The songs fit the situations perfectly, and the characters 
 and units do not have repetative sound files. The untis will scream yell and cry out in a million 
 different ways in battle, and on the overall map, selected units will respond in a variety of different 
 ways. The sound of the weapons clashing and men scuffling against one another are clean and crisp, 
 and in combination with the astounding visuals, it all just emerses you in to the game completely.
 
  
  One word of warning, there is nothing easy, or quick about this game. It can get a little tedious 
 at times, and if you are impatient at all, or get frustrated by loosing, then you might have a 
 few problems with this game. Other than that, have at it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ele975
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 15, 2006 7:45 am PT
Review:  This game is awesome as everyone says it is, the strategi in this game is better than RTW, so you 
 really have to posisjon your men in battle strategicly than random you did in RTW. Horse users 
 are now more important to win battles either to distract the reinforcements or the attacker if 
 you are 1 vs 2 battle. So save your cavalry.
  
  I also agree with Gamespot when the system recs comes in to the picture, we have a 512MB Nvidia 
 graphic card, 3.1Ghz (which is also worth as 7.4 Ghz)
  1.5gig RAM (old, planning to replace them with new ones) . And still we only get up to 2500 troops 
 on screen, so you really can't have up to 10000 troops on screen as they said and promised, so 
 a huge let down is there so be prepared.
  
  In this game, you will see alot of changes from RTW to an all new level of difficulty of strategy, 
 always have the right troops on screen (CAVALRY UNIT IS HIGHLY RECOMMENDED!!! AT LEAST 1 UNIT) 
 Have every type of soldiers which are: Sword unit, Spear unit, Archer unit, Cavalry Unit, this 
 type of unit is 2 types, Ballista Units which are 2 purpose. Support and Siege weapons so use them 
 wisely. Gun Powder comes around in 80 or 81 round (s) so in this i age i have recently come across, 
 even if i did come to the round 100 i still wouldn't tell you how the wisest use to use them tip. 
 Due to the Multiplayer :P
  
  Good Luck and have ENDLESS fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zdthzdfh
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 15, 2006 3:47 am PT
Review:  This game looks and plays like the earlier game Rome Total War. It just the pimped version. It 
 looks better and is more complex to play and handle. There are more different units to build and 
 there is more to micromanage for you to handle... it just feels like i have played it all before. 
 The campain is a hard one. i spent a lot of time fighting the enemy off whitout making any procres 
 concering any land. but it won't matter because that was a few years ago and the game is again 
 very addictive. i was waiting for this one to arrive! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shrimpcrackers
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 17, 2006 1:25 am PT
Review:  I have loved and played all of Total War's games from the Shogun era. I had extremely high hopes 
 for this game as most of you all had. Unfortunately a common theme seems to be emerging in the 
 world of PC games. Developers are being forced to release a product prematurely to meet deadlines. 
 In the end we end up being screwed as we wait for patches to fix the game. I'll go through a few 
 of the bugs in the bulk of the review and trust me when I say there are many. Now I don't mean 
 to dishearten you into not buying this game. It is still highly playable and enjoyable, just not 
 tuned to perfection and its a real real shame because this game has the potential to do just that. 
 Achieve perfection.
  
  STABILITY - I have had no problems at all with crashing or frame-rates, but be forewarned that 
 many people with out -of-my-budget range computer have had problems with all of the above. My system 
 is a AMD 64 3200+ 2 gigs Ram and a ATI x1900xtx. If you've played any of the previous total war 
 games, you'll be able to instantly recognize the familiar layout and get started immediately.
 
  
  REAL TIME BATTLES - The game is beautiful when you have a large army with artillery and arrows 
 lighting up the battlefield. The cities in sieges are impressive and much improved from Rome. The 
 units have individual details with units having slightly different weapons, horses or mismatched 
 clothing. Battles tend to feel more chaotic as units clash on the field. Graphically it is impressive, 
 althought not astoundingly different from Rome. It feels more like an upgrade than an overhaul.
 
  Gameplay is what we really care about right? If you've played rome, then the battle system will 
 be extremely similar. The only problem is that they never fixed the bugs in Rome and seemed to 
 have added more to the mix. Cavalry will not charge when told to. They will simply walk up to the 
 enemy and get killed. It helps if you stop them and form your ranks and then charge, but this kind 
 of micro-management means doom in a full scale battle. Chasing fleeing units is still a chore and 
 the worst of the bugs comes in sieges. People have reported invisible cannons firing. You can't 
 control more than one unit at a time on castle walls. AI will sometimes just open the gates for 
 you and mill about as you attack and capturing enemy walls is near impossible. You used to be able 
 to control the towers to shoot back at the enemy. The towers will now just keep firing at you, 
 without regard that there are no enemies there. Controlling your units and making any kind of formations 
 inside cities is pretty much impossible. Your units will still cram into small spaces. You'll have 
 8 units in a hodgepodge of a ball of fighting hell. Thats not realistic in my opinion. Usually 
 8 units cannot fight in that close of a space all together. AI can still be pitiful in the battlefield, 
 with units just standing around getting hit by arrows or charging headfirst into your spearmen 
 with their general. Multiplayer is fun but the same in-game bugs are there. There are lots of bugs, 
 but It's not as horrible as it sounds. I want to stress that the game is still enjoyable, but in 
 a great game, these bugs seem to glare out even more. CAMPAIGN-
  One of my favorite parts of Total War games is their campaigns. They've succeeded in making the 
 game deeper with many new features. Unfortunately, it really still feels like a tweaked version 
 of Rome. Thats not really a bad thing, but don't expect any revolutionary changes. New features 
 include new diplomacy options and units such as merchants, princesses (was in medieval 1 but not 
 Rome) , and cardinals. My biggest qualm with this is that you'll see the AI have high ranked spies, 
 merchants, assassins and princesses, while you are stuck with lowly ones to start the game. Speaking 
 of which, the game hates giving you princesses. You'll see hordes of them on the battlemap, but 
 you'll be lucky if you even get one in 50 turns. A welcome change is the ability to choose whether 
 to make your province into a city or a castle. City providing more economic benefits, while castles 
 provide more military units. Each have their own unique building and units they can produce. New 
 features like being able to Vote for the new pope are nice and spreading out merchants to give 
 you more options on making money. If you enjoyed Rome, you'll enjoy Medieval 2 because they're 
 really the same game. The added content, different era and many new units still make the game worthwhile, 
 but I was hoping for the campaign to be finely tuned, not just new features thrown in.
  
  All in all, Medieval 2 is a fine game by any standard. In fact, its like getting 2 games in one 
 with the Campaign map mode and the real time battles. If you've never played and Total War games, 
 do yourself a favor and try it out. To veterans of the games, I hope you're not expecting perfection. 
 Let Maybe I was expecting too much, but I think not. Its not hard or out of this world to expect 
 a relatively bug-free game. Sadly, it seems like these days, thats the normal trend among PC-gamers. 
 We don't expect perfect games anymore. We accept the broken pieces and play around them until an 
 elusive patch appears. I would gladly wait another month and recieve a fine-tuned product. Question 
 is would you? I still give it a 10 for Value because it will drain many many hours of your life. 
 me point out that the only reason I am so critical is that it is such a great game and thus the 
 bugs seem to glare out even more. Once the patch comes out (should be in about 2-3 weeks after 
 release) I'll update my review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nguyenlong311
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 14, 2006 7:55 pm PT
Review:  Great, Good , ButtKicking, Another Sleepless Month of My Gamming Life. FYI, Don't Play If You Have 
 A GirlFriend. GLuck
  
  Been Waiting over 2 yrs for this game. This is great. I owned all expansion of this Totalwar series 
 and this doesn't turn me down. I'm looking forward for the next few expansions and next series. 
 You should get this game if you never heard of it. Money Back Guaranty. One more thing. This game 
 should be rated 12/10 cause it's more than good. I hope the next one will be even better. Too bad 
 that gamespot only rated 8.8. It's a little bit under rated. Anyway, I recommend a good system. 
 Like FX Series or Core2Duo. Don't go cheap on your PC cause you need a good system to make this 
 game run smooth. Enough bozo. You should try it . I gotta get back to the game. =) ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: all_gone_wrong
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 14, 2006 7:32 pm PT
Review:  Rome was an excellent game and although Medieval II doesn't give the franchise a revolutionary 
 steep forward it certainly brings us a more polished, engaging game on all levels. One of the new 
 features of the games that I like is the cities against castles choice you have to make as you 
 have to plan you strategy on the campaign map allot more.
  The inclusion of a more in depth religious meaning to the game is a welcome inclusion but I still 
 feel this area needs more work along with the still somewhat sketchy in game diplomacy.
  
  Looks wise the game is incredible for its genre from the campaign map to zooming in to the think 
 of it in the middle of the battle this is the most pleasing on the eye strategy game I have ever 
 seen. You are no longer given regiments where every solider is identical in look and movement,. 
 but given regiments where every single solider is individual even down to slight clothing differences.
 
  
  Some may feel that there hasn't been a big enough steep forward in this game from Rome but the 
 improved graphics and change of era in my opinion make the retail price worth it for anyone who 
 enjoys stratergy games. And this is a strategy game of the grandest scale that will let any buddy 
 general rule the world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poker276
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 14, 2006 6:35 pm PT
Review:  Up to this point in time, Civilization 4 was the class of all RTS games, but the time has come 
 for a changing of the guard. Total War is one of the greatest games ever made, for many many reasons. 
 It has amazing graphics, where you can see every single soldier fighting, they even done walk through 
 trees, or you can zoom out and se the whole battlefield. It is absolutely impossibel to win in 
 this game without a solid plan and great tactics, no matter how big your army is, if you have bad 
 tactics you will lose, i learned this the hard way. Also the pope makes this game interesting by 
 adding many twists and turns, he orders you to stop fighting christians, and if you disobey he 
 will kill your generals, and even maybe exocumminate your empire, he also calls crusades. It is 
 hard to describe this game , but it is without a doubt one of the greatest games ever made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gonger09
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 15, 2006 6:46 pm PT
Review:  Nothing else is like this strategy game nothing else is like it its predecesors are nothing comparing.
 
  this game makes the PS3 looks like crap but whatever the game is absolutely perfect and just another 
 totat war game is going to be better than this its probably the best game ever made with extremely 
 good graphics for being for pc and an amazingly large list of things you can do the world is yours 
 to control an yours to dominate and conquer in this game nothing else is camparisonable.
  Medieval 2 is a game with real facts that actually happened, that really makes it the best game 
 not like age of empires with population limit or the fact that a single man is the seize of a ship 
 NO WAY!!! thats absolutely trash 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CaramonGr
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 14, 2006 7:27 am PT
Review:  Hello,
  
  I m playing Total War games since the first Medieval Total War.
  The new Medieval 2 Total War plays pretty well and at last, a new coming game with very nice graphics 
 that can be playable from medium hardware PCs by playing around with the video settings.
  
  The intro of the game is nothing special, I preferred to be honest the video from the advertisement 
 of the game which is more violent, more powerful and with better effects. The graphics look just 
 like Rome Total War but with lots of nice paintings, making the overall looking much greater, especially 
 in RT battles. The music is just fine, playing sounds from anthems, church like. Within battles 
 sometimes music might be annoying but the good point is that music differs from place to place, 
 so when fighting to Egypt the music is different with the one in Europe.
  
  The sound Effects are nice, but I would like more slashing and yells when zooming in battle. The 
 speech as well is very nice and there was made special voice recording from faction to faction.
 
  
  The good thing about Total War games is that the series are the most realistic strategies in battle. 
 Every movement has to be thought careful before doing it. E. g charging in a hill from lower hight 
 tires your troops, fighting in woods makes arrow less effective, morale is viable. Closing, this 
 game is a must for the fans of realistic strategies and medieval lovers. If you like future staff 
 with lasers plasmas etc then take a look at it, it might change your likes :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dariune
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 14, 2006 3:45 am PT
Review:  I remember buying Shogun total war and losing a large portion of my childhood playing it. All the 
 succeeding Total War games have managed to make vast improvments on the last making the gamers 
 excitement justified. Now Medievil2 came out i once again got it ASAP and started playing it straight 
 away.
  My first impression wasnt good as i dont like the new unit icons at the bottom and more importantly 
 there was a conflict with my keyboard in the battles. However this was fixed quickly and then the 
 fun began. Once i got to play for a while i instantly realised the game does a fantastic job of 
 drawing you in. The atmosphere for the game is nothing short of Medevil. There are several new 
 things to keep you occupied and i felt that a real effort had been made to give the game more depth 
 which is very refreshing after the last year of dumbed down games. One of the first new things 
 introduced are the differences between Castles and Cities. A good idea and well incorperated which 
 adds to the stategic element rather than just mass producing cities. The other main difference 
 is the new agents added into the game. For the most part they are the same as Rome TW but the addition 
 of merchants and princesses is a nice touch and they have prevented it from being like the old 
 MTW where you have more agents than you know what to do with. The battles are probably what people 
 are most interested in and i am happy to say that these have also been very much improved. Once 
 again they are going for realism. As they marketed, there are several variants for the men in each 
 unit and this makes the battles look amazing. Though i personally find it gets a little confusing 
 when your looking down at a mass of different men all killing each other. They have also made the 
 units spread out when they get into battle, each man trying his best to get into the action. Again 
 this adds to the realism and also to the confusion. The Graphics look fantastic and when you have 
 catapults and Trebuchet firing flame at the enemy and archers and crossbowmen unleashing their 
 hair of arrows at a well defended battle its very hard to ignore the outcome and just watch this 
 spectacular scene. The sound is also good though i personally preferred the Rome music i could 
 understand why someone would disagree with me on that. All in all this is a VERY nice addition 
 to the Total War series and it adds enough to make buying the game more than worthwhile. To Sumerise 
 + More new features than i can say in one review
  + The look and feel of the game is perfect
  + Excellent Graphics
  + Looks very real + Just 
 a lot of fun
  - Your life might pass by with out you
  - Sound is good but not great - Battles get a bit confusing (im clutching at straws here)
  - 
 The unit icons dont look that good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: potapithikos
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 14, 2006 3:39 am PT
Review:  Well i am sorry.
  
  I've followed the entire Total War series, 4 games in now, to the point of fanboism.
  
  But 
 enough is enough in my opinion. Creative Assembly need to wake up and realise that graphics are 
 not THE most important aspect of a game.
  
  In the latest installment of the Total War series the have really come near perfection with their 
 graphics engine. However the rest of the game is just a recycled version of Rome Total War. Infact 
 in certain aspects like Multiplayer the game has taken leaps backwards ... if that is possible 
 considering the multiplayer aspect of Total War games was always it's weakest point.
  
  Developers need to realise that AI will never really be a challenge for the human player. Maybe 
 in the next expansion or installment of Total War they will implement stuff like Multiplayer Campaign 
 over LAN or Online and give the game some real longevity. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kvbrock
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 14, 2006 2:08 am PT
Review:  I have been waiting for many, many years for a game of this quality and magnitude. It is in every 
 possible way exactly what i was hoping for it to be.
  The gameplay is again top notch stuff, completely immersing you into the battle in every sense 
 possible. Selecting and maneuvering troops is just as easy as in previous versions and on the whole 
 very user friendly. On the whole the gameplay hasnt changed much but it really boils down to the 
 phrase 'If it ain't broke, dont fix it! 
  
  The graphics have been improved dramatically. The fight scenes really play a big part in bringing 
 the battles to life and they help to create that movie atmosphere which was lacking in the previous 
 two games. The swords clashing and knights charging look so realistic that you might even get caught 
 dangerously staring for too long at the action on the screen instead of focusing on the battle 
 on the whole. Everytime there is a battle going on i end up with my flatmates eating chips and 
 popcorn behind me, and there arent even interested in gaming. There are absolutely no complaints 
 in the graphics department. Everything looks gorgeous.
  
  There arent any majors in the sound department, but then again there was no need for any. The sound 
 in total war games has always been brilliant and there was no need for any particular engineering 
 breakthrough here. My only gripe is there could be the occasional repetition of a general's speech 
 prior to a battle, however, this is obviously expected when playing for 14 hours without sleep 
 and basic sanitary requirements.
  
  All total war games have incredible value for money, fullstop. Every campaign is a different historical 
 path unfolding before your eyes. This, in essence is what makes makes these games so addictive.. 
 speaking on a personal note of course. Be it long, progressive campaigns, or short action oriented 
 ones; this game shines in all areas &amp; its replayability is astounding.
  
  On the whole i would say this game is in my top 3 of all time. Creative Assembly have really outdone 
 this time with a game that is challenging, thrilling, fun, exciting, addictive and original. I 
 could spend all day here trying to conjure up one single complaint about this game but im sure 
 it wont be anything remotely close to damaging the games hold on the strategy market. What can 
 i say? im in love. Thank you Creative! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kugreen
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 14, 2006 12:33 am PT
Review:  I think it is much better organised than Rome and a lot of interesting features that were introduced 
 at the first Medieval were included again. The 2 types of cities is a great new feature that encourage 
 better startegic planning. Religion also depicts more of the intricacies existing in ascending 
 to power, though there is certain lack in diplomatic options when you want to support a candidate 
 outside of your faction. In fact the only area (again) that lacks ample choices is diplomacy (like 
 influence, infiltrating the advisors, trading of specific strategic goods that could also lead 
 to efforts of controlling such regions, etc) . The strongest point, of course, is the tactical battle 
 map and we are eagerly expecting to see the naval version of it. Trully it is magnificent and only 
 playing it someone could feel it. In conclusion I think it is the best game in its category. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alesspla
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 13, 2006 6:17 pm PT
Review:  Medieval 2 Total War is a life time experience. It mixes some aspects that makes it a masterpiece. 
 Its a kind of game that must be enjoyed smoothly, like the best wine. Despite the incredible playabiliy 
 and the amazing graphics, is the richness of details that impresses me the most.
  
  The game style is pretty much the same of its predecessor, Rome Total War, but with many improvments 
 and with graphics upgraded.
  
  It&acute; s a must have game for all those who have a minimum interest for history, for ancient 
 military strategy and most of all for those who like having fun for hours and hours.
  
  Im just worried about the only problem I&acute; ve noticed until now: the poor marketing structure 
 that is beeing used to distribute this jewel. Im Brazilian, and we are a huge game market, and 
 even yet there was NO distributor nor store planning to sale the game here, forcing us to import 
 from US and UK, paying a very high price.
  
  Its critical mistakes like that wich helps to increase piracy, since people cannot buy tha properly 
 and got surrounded for the illegal meanings to obtain the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mangepenge
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 17, 2007 5:03 pm PT
Review:  As a huge total war fan my ekspektations for this game was really high. --which also give me a 
 critical perspective. The game itself is a build of two things. A turn bases Risk/Basic Civilizasion 
 turnbased gameplay. Where you build up your settlements, manage relations with other factions, 
 do the popes biding/defends against it Build up your nobles with different traits and try to keep 
 the disorderly mob under control. The second part is the epic real time battles which takes place 
 when 2 armies clash. This is everying thing from Epic huge land battles with littually thousands 
 of soldiers fighting to epic siege battle with Artellery fire. All this ofcourse includes, Stamina 
 and morale, special abilities such as fire arrows, eksploding ammo, to the trebuches which can 
 fire rotting cow meat to reduce the morale of the enemy.
  
  Real time battles --- Visuals
  The prevoius installment rome/clonewars delivered the good; but 
 not quite feel in the real time battle, wich MDTW 2 improves quite alot.
  With all grafics cracnked up i went into my first battle. In the designers journals they spoke 
 quite alot about moving away from the clonewars which they did beautifully. You can't help feeling 
 some kind off ave when you see the Templar knights charging through muslim armies in their quest 
 to retake the holy lands ( usually Jerusalem, which the pope loves to send crusades at early on,) 
 with their individual armors and helmets which shines in the sun, or when spearmen desides your 
 cavalry no longer deserves to live so they poke them with thier pointy sticks, or when you create 
 12 archer units and attack 2 Light infantry units whos just recieved thier first paycheck just 
 to see how many you can take down. Needles to say i thought the visuals were beatiful, until i 
 say catapult, trebuche and bombard cannon fire. I was stunned. It simply blew my mind. It feelt 
 so good when i finnaly hit a unit with my fiery bolts from my catapult. It **** at the right (opposite 
 of left, red) side of a Generals Bodyguard and killed of the French king. Watching his horse burn 
 in the eksplosion i felt proud. Gameplay - AI
  Besides from that the AI has bin giving a nutch forward, though its still quite possible to take 
 advantege of it. Example, ai sends cavalry at my archers and charces right into the stakes placed 
 by the same unit. Killing of half of 'em before the battle begins. Sound
  The music ins't anything spectacular. The appropiate music begins when you march, charge e. t. c 
 creates the right mood though. However the sound of 2 units charging and classhing is quite satifying. 
 (If this is your first total war game) Cute little virgins
  For players who enjoy wonderfull visuals, RTS games, or just has any need to kill something should 
 play this game just for the sake of it's battles because you'll be amased.
  
  For all fellow old timers the game still delivers the same great eksperience. In spite off that 
 after a while the formular begins to feel a little old, though usaually that feeling cleares once 
 you take a brake from it.
  
  ... yawn ill write on later about the strategic layer. Sorry about my spelling im danish and we 
 tend to drink anything and anywhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arjan17
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 13, 2006 3:41 pm PT
Review:  One word to describe this game, simply amazing. The graphics are so detailed and so awesome. Best 
 of all I may add in my opinion the gameplay is completly Total War with the neccesary improvement. 
 The question soon arises is this game truly only an eye candy or is it worthwhile playing as well, 
 well people the answer is YES! Not only the graphics are good the sound effects are stunningly 
 real as well, it takes little imagination to think yourself on the battlefield, ordering your armies 
 to clash with that of the enemy. But not only on the field of battle is a war decided, it's just 
 one of many aspects of the game. Dimplomacy, assasinations are also a force to be reckoned with. 
 Your armies can be oh so powerful but if you do not use the tools at your disposal you will surely 
 lose. Maybe one of the biggest improvements in this game besides the graphics on the battlefield 
 is the campaign map it's much more influential in this game then the previous releases. Ofcourse 
 the only drawback to this game is that it requires a computer that still needs to be invented to 
 play it at ultimate settings smoothly.
  
  Definitly worth buying guys, but take heed of the system requirements if those check out be ready 
 to expierience something epic ... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mr_mega_drive
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 12, 2006 5:04 pm PT
Review:  The main reason I start with such a moderate apraisal of this Re-encarnation of the first Medieval 
 game is because I feel basiclly that this game is merely a highbyrd of the first Medieval game 
 but with Romes graphics.
  
  I do admit that certain parts of the game had me in fits of excitment, such as attacking a citadel, 
 with multiple layers of defences and the greatly extended options on the campaign map, having towns 
 and castles, mercahnts, preist and the like. But looking back at the old game there were certain 
 bits they could and should have left in, such as in the case of England being able to choose a 
 Lord Chancellor or a Archbishop of Canterbury, would I feel have added alot more historical weight 
 to the game.... Though I must admit slaughtering the Scots in rather fun... Tee Hee
  
  I hav'nt encountered the plague yet, but if they've payed attention to the history books the plague 
 in this game should sweep across the entire map, wiping out Europes population in a number of years.... that 
 would make things interesting to say the least.
  
  The battles are as ever Brilliant, WONDERFUL I've had blood guts and goo flying everywhere, I think 
 we all admit that this game or even the sub-genre of games that is TOTAL WAR are all amazing for 
 their time.... I remeber palying Shogun the week it came out for hours on end thinking the graphics 
 were amazing...... Don't times change.....
  
  But on the whole this game is nothing short of Brilliant, although I feel as a Civ fan the turn 
 based part of the game needs to be more in depth, Barons, titles, witchsmellers, plague, everything.... 
 But these are small problems that only a over picky Hundred years war buff would think of....... MY 
 ADVICE.......
  
  GO OUT AND BUY IT!!
  HAIL THE CREATIVE ASSEMBLEY!!
  BRING ON NEPOLIONIC TOTAL WAR!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stabby
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 12, 2006 3:46 am PT
Review:  If you played the previous Total War games then the sequel to the revolutionary Medieval Total 
 War will seem like no stranger... think of it more of the same person who just came back with plastic 
 surgery, however in these modern times the results work inredablly well!
  
  Sound
  Of course the previous titles gave us both amazing realistic sounds and war chat like music that 
 kept the game alive each play through. The raging battles that are to come will require you to 
 turn up the speakers as like all the past games, the sound has never got dull with both excellent 
 voice acting, clashes of iron and steel with flesh and not to mntion the very much filmic soundtracks 
 that all mix together to make many battle memerable.
  
  Graphics
  I might as well get right to what you want to know... the graphic ain't perfect, hell, theres even 
 the odd lag at times if you zoom alittle to close in but thats not to say it won't push your machine 
 to the limit. The textures are more realistic yet being in the middle ages its more grey than white 
 like Rome Total War so you'll most likely get a depressing war atmosphere than a glorius one however 
 like me, many should find this a nice feature since they always say war is hell. This time of course 
 not all units look alike as some will have different faces, coloured horses or clothing not to 
 mention how they fight although don't get to excited, I'm talking about 3 to 4 different kinds 
 but still, if no stranger to the series you'll love this feature. The landscape are no brainers 
 either, they're larger, more lush and full of more natural and man made features that bring the 
 battlefield to life... however you'll need a rather powerful computer to get the full package including 
 rain, smoke and shadows
  
  Gameplay
  Well for some reason, I could see this being the reason why this game will probably get 1 or 2 
 points lower than Rome since the basic outlined gameplay hasn't changed much, however we already 
 know this gameplay is one hell of a rollercoaster. New features such as more seige weapons, multiple 
 walls to breach (think Minas Tirith LotR) , gunpowder and further formations, the battles should 
 come as something new to some in many areas, mostly seiges considering it can get alot more lengthy 
 and thrilling (in a good way) . The campaign map hasn't change much either but with new factions, 
 diplomacy options and a slight extention, you should notice the difference. Relgion is more of 
 a factor and calling Jihads or Crusades are pretty fun, especially if you mange to be the next 
 Pope, its like being the senate in Rome, but YOU can call the shots, yet its not easy getting there. 
 Family trees are alittle more complex but don't interfer much however the major cause of concern 
 with many is the Inquisitors just killing whoever when they feel like it, including your faction 
 king! Theres also a chance to sidestep Europe and visit the east side of America but only with 
 the Aztecs the blockade (obviously going to be the drive for the add on then) . Not much has changed 
 but the few enhancments definatly make this an excellent game still and when I say its not a innovative 
 as Rome... I do mean by like a couple of score points.
  
  Value
  Theres plenty, depending on how much you enjoyed the previous titles, plus with online it shouldn't 
 be hard... I'll leave it at that.
  
  So lets sum up then...
  
  Pros:
  - Enhanced graphics
  - Loads of great new factions and units
  - Best game yet for sieges
 
  - Good online (with a good connection)
  - MORE TOTAL WAR
  
  Cons:
  - Inquisitors kill generals whether you like it or not
  - Nope, naval battles the same
  - Good 
 PC required (although this is reviewd on the basis that I have a good one)
  - Pretty simular
  
  Alot of cons there? True but each is only a slight pickle so if anything, 
 I'd make that 2 cons than one.
  
  In conclusion Medieval Total War 2 is a fantastic strategy game, for both fans of the series and 
 genre in general. Of course its not a big as we all hoped but big enough to make it truely stand 
 out from many others (series aside of course) and if a fan thinking you've seen it all before, 
 don't worry, the fact is an enhanced version ATLEAST is enough to make it a new experience, and 
 I'm leaving out many other details in the sentance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimjim245
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 11, 2006 3:34 pm PT
Review:  Medieval 2 doesn't reall expand that much on the original TW design and if you played Rome TW a 
 lot then you may find that this game is a little bit been there, done that .
  
  That said this is still a truly awesome game, the graphics are amazing, even mind-blowing in certain 
 situations, the attention to detail is so much more apparent here than it has been on any other 
 TW game.
  
  The new Campaign map has also been tweaked. There are new units for use such as Cardinals and Merchants 
 as well as actual characters for Heretics, it doesn't really affect the gameplay as much as I'd 
 like but it's a nice touch, also Diplomats actually talk which made me smile, it gives the game 
 a more personal feel: P
  
  All in all this is the best TW game, no doubt, it's still the same game at heart but it has enough 
 new stuff to make it throughly engaging and enjoyable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chuffyzor
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 11, 2006 2:41 am PT
Review:  After the travesty that was Rome: Total War and all of its expansions (glorified mods!) I lost 
 a lot of faith in CA. I am a TW vet who has been playing since Shogun and Rome was just SO disappointing!
 
  
  However, M2TW seems to get it right.
  
  Let me say this first, the game is BEAUTIFUL, honestly one of the best looking games in years. 
 The differences in each single soldier, the stunning battlefield landscapes, the hugely detailed 
 cities... if you have a good graphics card you will love the game. The battlefields have to be mentioned 
 further, the original MTW had very interesting and detailed battlefields and there were clear differences 
 between fighting in somewhere like England to fighting in Greece. Rome however, everywhere just 
 felt the same, there was no sense of location or climate... battlefields were bland and uninspiring. 
 In M2TW if you fight a battle in Scotland you will see rugged Highland landscapes, fight a battle 
 in Northern France you will be treated to lush grassland and massive forests, fight a battle in 
 Greece you will fight over Arid grassland and rocky hills etc.
  
  A lot has been made of the improved AI and improved combat system and mostly all the hype is justified, 
 yet for all the new stuff added to the battles it still feels very samey. The AI on both the campmap 
 and battlemap has been improved to a degree, on the campmap rival factions will honour alliances 
 with you for the most part, they also gather up armies and so you don't have one unit stacks bimbling 
 around. Yet at times the AI slips back into its RTW roots. Rival ships blockade one of your ports, 
 declaring war and then the faction itself makes no attempt to attack you. Sometimes one unit stacks 
 do run around the map, in one game I had the French King seige one of my cities ON HIS OWN without 
 any support! At times the AI on the campmap and battlemap really surprises and challenges you, 
 other times it just makes you remember why MTW1 and STW were so good compared to RTW (AI!) .
  
  The reduced unit and killing speeds must also be mentioned, you actually have time to admire 
 combats and formulate complex strategies. Something which Rome lacked.
  
  Overall, M2TW is the game Rome should have been, the AI is for the most part much better, it fixes 
 many annoying things from Rome, the new castle/city system is very nice and the game expands on 
 many ideas from MTW1 (even though it leaves out a few things, like titles and full blown civil 
 wars) . Yet for all the hype and improved graphics and the supposed 'AMAZING NEW FEATURE: THE AZTECS' 
 (which are just another faction for you to beat up... who cares?) if you played Rome a lot, you 
 may not find a lot of replay value in M2TW. Don't get me wrong, the replay value is far greater 
 than Rome itself and the new options for modders (31 faction slots!) should keep people verrrry 
 busy... yet throughout my time playing the game I just kind of thought been here, done that . M2TW 
 is evolutionary game, not a revolutionary one and it shows. The basic framework of Rome is obvious 
 to see and really reminds you that the next TW game really needs to change things completely. Maybe 
 through naval battles, better seiges and a reworked campaign game? Who knows?
  
  M2TW and the dozens of mods that will be released for it will keep people playing for years to 
 come, yet the limitations of the R/M2TW engine are really starting to show. M2TW is a solid game 
 however and very enjoyable (even though I will probably abandon the vanilla campaign and just play 
 mods ;) ) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Delta290
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 10, 2006 11:20 am PT
Review:  Right, five hours in and I'm on crusade, seven hours in and my crusade is no more thanks to a pesky 
 inquisitor, twelve hours in and I'm debating whether or not to take on the pope as well as trying 
 to defend my borders from the Scots, French and an invading Holy Roman Empire. In short, I'm screwed... 
 but I don't mind... and this is why....
  
  Well I never thought anything would stand up to the test of Rome, which holds the record for length 
 installed on my PC at 2 and a bit years, but this is better. That's simplifying it a little bit, 
 it's more complex, it has more avenues of growth and it has a certain enjoyable side that I think 
 only comes with the medieval period. There's something about the charging of two hundred horsemen 
 into the flank of an enemy army that words can't quite describe... some kind of beauty. Ok maybe 
 I'm weird... well yes I am weird but meh what the hey, this game kicks ass, that said, only providing 
 you have a system that's up to the challenge. Although playable on most set ups in order to make 
 the most of this game you need to have a pretty good system. Anyway, the game modes haven't changed 
 much since Rome, the world map is pretty much the same and the overall look and feel of the strategy 
 map remains unchanged. The reason I believe this game takes the series to the next level is the 
 amount of extra content that has been included, not only on the battle maps but on the strategic 
 map too, offering a wider range of means to subvert your enemy's economy or strength. I've waited 
 two years for this game, ever since Rome. I was hoping that the next in the series would be a Napoleonic 
 era game but I am in no way disappointed, in fact I'm amazed Creative Assembly have managed to 
 make a game that seems so familiar yet remains different with it's own original twists. If you 
 loved Rome you'll have some sort of joyous breakdown with Medieval Two. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Archrivel
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 10, 2006 4:40 am PT
Review:  Medieval 2: Total war, does a great job of embrasing you in the world of Total war. With the nice 
 cinematics making a come back, with the new graphics and voice overs this game is set to be around 
 for a very long time. The trouble is the Settings are set to a default value, if you change the 
 settings don't stay to what you set them. So you go in change the settings apply them, go out of 
 settings and back in again they would show the default values not the one you change, which is 
 annoying as if your trying to find the best settings for you it be good to find out what the problem 
 is by doing a trial and error but this doesn't allow for that.
  
  The minimum requirments match that of many games, Recommended requirments, it's pritty high end 
 top of the range PC you will need to be able to get this game to play smoothly. The special effects 
 of the game does a great job, also backed by good music, one of the tunes when on The campaign 
 map, I reconised as the Intro music to Lineage 2, composed by Bill Brown. Also featureing other 
 music from another composer.
  
  There is room for some tweaking here and there. Some times the General repeats some of his speech 
 by mistake. However they done a good job here. The AI is pretty good when inside of the battle 
 been playing on medium level for the past 2 days I got to play this game early and the AI is pretty 
 smart. However on the campaign map the AI has proven to be not so smart, the Eqyptian king with 
 an army of 200 decided to attack my town with and army of 500 defending it.
  
  This game is defently best in the series compared to the other Total war series. As this is the 
 first time we've seen Sega get their hands on this product we can only hope for more. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
