-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Medieval II: Total War Kingdoms
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/medievaliitotalwarkingdoms/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Huge expansion with four campaigns, each of which feels like a whole new game.
 Impressive production values make each campaign feel unique.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Hard-drive hog if you've got limited disk space.
 Tedious installation process.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep  7, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 8.4, 21 Review (s)
User Score: 8.8, 2,236 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sega
Developer: Creative Assembly
Genre: Historic Real-Time...
Date:     Aug 28, 2007 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This great new expansion offers a significant amount of new content for veteran Medieval II players. 
 

  Conquering Europe is never an easy task, in real life and in Medieval II: Total War. It's a big 
 place, after all, and there's no shortage of foes, as you might have learned in Sega and Creative 
 Assembly's epic strategy game. Enter Medieval II: Total War Kingdoms, an expansion pack that offers 
 up whole new areas of the world for would-be emperors to conquer. There's a lot of content in here 
 for veteran Total War fans to chew through, though newcomers should probably familiarize themselves 
 with Medieval II before diving into this packed expansion.  

           Go England! Or maybe you're for Scotland? How about Wales? And where did Norway come from? 

  This expansion is like having four all-new games in one, considering that it features four unique 
 single-player campaigns: Britannia, the Crusades, the Teutonic Knights, and, most radically, the 
 Americas. The nice thing about these campaigns is that they don't feel like Creative Assembly just 
 recycled a lot of content from the core campaign and called it a day. Each campaign feels like 
 it was built from the ground up, complete with its own appropriate music, movies, units, rule changes, 
 and more. Even some of the oft-humorous cutscenes that show in-game events have been retooled for 
 the better. (If the "walking bush" infiltration cutscene doesn't make you smile, then you have 
 no sense of humor.)  

  Even though these campaigns aren't quite on the scale of the epic campaign in Medieval II, they're 
 still huge. Each will require hours to get through, particularly if you play through each battle 
 rather than have the computer automatically generate the results. Though they're normally focused 
 on more specific eras in history, Creative Assembly has done a good job of making these campaigns 
 feel grand in their own right.  

  While the Britannia campaign might seem like a rehash of the successful Viking Invasion expansion 
 for the original Medieval: Total War, it's quite different. The Viking Invasion was set in the 
 Dark Ages, when a dozen factions tried to carve a power base. This new Britannia campaign occurs 
 much later in history, and you'll play either as England trying to cement your hold on the islands, 
 or as one of the smaller nations (Scotland, Ireland, Wales, and Norway) trying to fight back. Playing 
 as England may be the toughest proposition in the entire expansion, because you start out with 
 huge swaths of poorly developed territory and must defend your land from all sides. You can easily 
 find yourself strapped for the resources needed to upgrade your territories and field huge armies. 
 Forts play a big role in this campaign, in that they're basically minicastles that help you defend 
 large expanses of territory.  

           The real-time battles are as big as ever.      

  The Crusades campaign covers a controversial period in history, though you can play from the 
 perspective of either the Crusader states or their Egyptian and Turkish foes. This feels like an 
 easier campaign to get into because the scale is more manageable. It also makes for a scenic campaign, 
 as mounted knights gallop through the desert, and distinct desert fortresses replace familiar European 
 castles. One nice aspect is that historical events have a way of intruding upon your campaign, 
 such as the appearance of yet another European crusade, or the appearance of the feared Mongols 
 in the east. Each faction has its own unique units, of course, but there are also special hero 
 units representing famous figures from history. These heroes have extra abilities beyond that of 
 regular generals. For instance, Richard the Lionhearted can instantly rally fleeing troops during 
 a battle.  

  The Teutonic campaign covers the campaign to convert Lithuania, the last pagan power in Europe. 
 Various tweaks have been made to this campaign to model the famous militant order of knights. For 
 instance, the Teutonic knights have a castle-oriented economy, rather than focusing on huge cities. 
 Meanwhile, religion plays a big role in the campaign; the Lithuanians can recruit special pagan 
 units early on, and then you can choose to convert to Catholicism and make use of Christian technology. 

  Finally, the Americas campaign lets you play from various perspectives, such as the Spanish, the 
 Mayans, the Aztecs, and even the Apachean tribes in North America. This is a campaign that pits 
 quality versus quantity, given that the vastly outnumbered Spanish forces have to rely on their 
 advanced weapons and units to survive against hordes of technologically inferior foes. Playing 
 as the Spanish requires you to be aggressive to earn prestige, which lets you upgrade cities. Meanwhile, 
 the native tribes are a departure from the European, North African, and Middle Eastern civilizations. 
 For example, they have no cavalry units (horses were introduced to the Americas by the Spanish) 
 and rely instead on colorful and fanatically brave infantry. The game models things such as ritual 
 sacrifices (to boost city happiness) , as well as warpaths, which are the Native American equivalent 
 to crusades or jihads.  

           Kingdoms is a great value if you're a Total War fan who can't get enough.      

  Each 
 campaign offers up a fresh new approach to play Medieval, and together they serve as the heart 
 of the content in the expansion. The rest is taken up by a handful of skirmish missions and multiplayer 
 battles with support for up to eight players. This makes for a huge package that, with Medieval 
 II (which is required) , can eat up nearly 12GB of hard-drive space. That doesn't sound like much 
 in the age of 500GB drives, but it might make you reconsider if you're low on disk space. Thankfully, 
 you can install the campaigns independently of each other, so if you want to play only the Crusades 
 you can save a few gigabytes and not install the others. Each campaign really feels like its own 
 game, complete with its own shortcut. However, installing this beast is a somewhat tedious process 
 that takes more than half an hour.  

  In the end, Kingdoms packs about four times as much gameplay as a traditional Total War expansion, 
 making it an excellent value. All of these campaigns are interesting and well done, and if you've 
 got a yen for a particular period in history that they cover, then you should definitely dive in. 
 Or if you're tired of conquering Europe, you've got something else to look forward to.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (74 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: gameking5000
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 28, 2009 11:05 pm PT
Review:  Medieval II: Kingdoms is the expansion pack to Medieval II. This expansion however is no ordinary 
 expansion. 4 new campaigns in just 1 game, the campaigns also aren't short ones too.
  
  Teutonic Campaign: This campaign focuses on the Holy Roman Empire's aim to conquer the areas surrounding 
 the baltic sea. However you don't play as the HRE until you unlock it. 8 factions will appear in 
 the game with 6 being playable and 2 unlockable. Gameplay is fun and exciting. 
  Rating: 8.5/10
  
  Americas Campaign: This campaign focuses on colonization of the New World. 
 New France and English Colonies will appear in the game. 10 factions with 8 playable makes this 
 one of the best campaigns in the Kingdoms expansion. Rating: 9.3/10
  
  Crusades Campaign:
  This campaign starts a few years before the 3rd Campaign and focuses on increasing 
 Christendom in the Holy Lands. 8 Factions with 6 playable.
  It's the best Campaign in my opinion. In this game you'l be conquering more often and there will 
 be many battles but that's all part of the fun ;)
  Rating 9.6/10
  
  Britannia Campaign: This campaign in my opinion is one of the most difficult. Keeping Public order 
 will be hard as each faction has a different culture. 6 factions with 5 playable. Neverthe less 
 this campaign is still fun and good. Rating 7.6/10
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: teokamataru
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 23, 2009 10:39 am PT
Review:  The Americasa land of mystery, great riches and exploration, but wrought with treacherous terrain 
 and terrifying inhabitants. .
  Exploit the riches of the New World  build trade agreements to boost your prestige and uncover 
 powerful ancient relics.
  and supplies that will help him survive and explore these new lands. Earn the support of Spain 
 to help you explore the mystery and riches of the New World, or take control of the Aztec or Native 
 American factions and call on the Gods and your vast armies to see off this new threat. Build alliances 
 with friendly indigenous tribes to reinforce your armies with local mercenaries. A new Prestige 
 system allows the Spanish to earn much-needed supplies and reinforcements from the Motherland through 
 missions, battles and alliances. Recreate the epic Crusades in the Holy Land, leading the Crusade 
 States to reclaim Christendom or the defenders of Islam 
::::::

::::::
UserName: b00gjuice
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 27, 2009 1:22 pm PT
Review:  I'm mad at myself for never playing a Total War Game until Jan 2009 (mostly because I wrongly thought 
 it was a click-fest RTS.. wrong) . With the upcoming "Empire: Total War" hype full swing, I decided 
 to try out Medieval War 2: Total War. I dived right into the game and almost gave up, but I persisted 
 and restarted campaigns a few times, once I got the hang of it, I loved it. I love how you can 
 "pause" combat and give orders just like in the NWN/Bioware 3rd person RPG's. That's what I always 
 hated about RTS's, it got too confusing and you could only give orders in real time. Also, the 
 units act like real units, you may tell a unit to charge; but unlike most RTS's, if the unit gets 
 scared they just may retreat on you. Plus, its fun to zoom in and watch your troops battle it out. 
 If you are a tactical RPG fan like me, you should really try this game out and give it a chance. 
 It's almost like a massive RPG with huge 3D battles. The game is deep, immersive and the pause/give 
 orders feature makes the 3D combat very fun and relaxing to play. The main strategic campain is 
 turn based, its cool to see what the AI does against your choices. Oh, and the "historical surprises" 
 are incredibly exciting. Get this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AntoniustheGrey
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 6, 2008 7:39 pm PT
Review:  Medieval Total War 2 Kingdoms is a very different experience from any other Medieval Total War 
 Game, minus that of Medieval Total War: Viking Invasion. This one is unique in the sense that it 
 has four diverse campaigns, unlike the other Total War games which usually feature one long, sprawling 
 campaign for total domination.
  
  The campaigns included in this expansions are shorter than any of the other one so far -- but surprisingly, 
 it's packed with even more. These campaigns each feature four different events of the Medieval 
 Time Period, and give each one it's own flavor and feel to it. Players of previous Total War campaigns 
 will quickly fall in love with the diversity that each expansion game offers, while newcomers will 
 get a taste of the evolution of what I hope is the Total War Series.
  
  Medieval Total War 2 Kingdoms plays exactly like Medieval Total War 2, with the exception that 
 this time, each campaign will feature less factions (about 5-10, the average being 7) and your 
 campaign will have some story driven elements to it. For example, in the Teutonic Campaign, Denmark 
 will not only have it's main mission of conquest, these will be a sidebar that will ask you to 
 fulfill certain requirements in order to achieve higher power -- without giving anything away. This 
 extra story element really helps to drive Medieval Total War 2 in a direction I did not think they 
 would take. Having played all of the Total War games, I can definently say this one is the best.
 
  
  Medieval Total War 2's deep strategy hasn't changed at all -- the battles on the tactical map as 
 well as the battle map are still very challenging. I would say that this Total War game adds some 
 difficulty, and does take a bit of getting used to for new comers. But thanks to Total War's difficulty 
 setting, it can be placed on easy which totally resolves any issue with difficult, allowing the 
 player to knock up the difficult when they feel they are ready.
  
  Each faction in each campaign feels very different, which is welcomed change. I could easily say 
 you will see the most diversity in factions in each of these campaigns. Even the Native American 
 tribes all feel very distinct and have their own flavor. I must say, I was very impressed. Your 
 strategy on the tactical map as well as the battle map varys heavily.
  
  The game does see some improvements from the previous in my opinion, namely, the fact that the 
 game has the story element. It really helps to push through the game and feels like you are achieving 
 more than just domination of the landscape -- I would hope to see this in future Total War games.
 
  
  The musical score on this game is great as well. I must say that The Total War Group has outdone 
 themselves yet again with their musical score. Each campaign had it's own music and own feel, and 
 if I'm not mistaken, each FACTION even had it's own different music -- that's something right there.
 
  
  Graphically this game is superior. Each unit looks distinct as they did in Medieval Total war 2, 
 and makes the game feel that much more real. The environment looks great, and differs heavily, 
 from the frozen field of Norway to the lush palms of Florida, the game really feels like you are 
 watching a real battle.
  
  Even if the strategic maps aren't your things, Medieval Total War 2 Kindgoms can still be for you. 
 With it's historical battles and it's ability to create custom matches, you can easily play all 
 sorts of battle scenarios for hours. I love the tactical map, but I can easily find myself lost 
 in custom play. It really is a gem.
  
  If you have never played a Total War game, I would say that there is no better time to try it out. 
 Medieval War 2 was based on one solid campaign, and if you didn't like it, that was it, but Medieval 
 Total War 2 Kingdoms gives you four different campaigns, that each have it's own flavor, meaning, 
 the game gives four chances to impress. For me, it impressed all four times and then some.
  
  The price tag on this game is great value -- period.
  
  With all these excellent things, 
 the only thing that stopped me short from giving it a 10 is the fact that the Total War series 
 has yet to resolve it's issue with it's horendous naval battles. There is no battle map between 
 naval encounters, and it seems each battle is random, or has the most ships. This can really hurt 
 you, especially if you are transporting loads of men, and then you are hit with a naval ship and 
 just happen to lose. Though this very unlikey (has happened to be once in a lot of hours of gameplay) 
 it is still annoying. I know they are planning on fixing this in Conquest Total War, but the issue 
 should have been 
  addressed somehow.
  
  Another shortcoming is the fact that alliances that are established with AI seem more like extended 
 ceasefires than anything. Allies can only be trusted so far, and more than likely there is no mutual 
 benefit you can derive from establishing alliances. This has been a problem throughout the Total 
 War Series, but as I look into the future I see this being enhanced.
  
  The game is amazing. Even though Conquest Total War is right around the corner, this game is simply 
 worth playing. It will provide hours and hours of fun and will definently give you all sorts of 
 experiences -- from the Spanish Conquestidor to the Scottish Highlander, this game is amazing. Don't 
 skip out on this Total War gem -- it's their best so far, and that says a lot when it comes to the 
 high-enduring quality of all Total War games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedneckGamer87
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 13, 2008 9:10 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: I've always enjoyed the expansion packs for the Total War series much more than the original 
 games. So anyways in this "Kingdoms" expantion there are four new campaign settings. First up is 
 a Crusades map in which a pair of occupying Christian powers (Jerusalem and Antioch) go battle 
 the warriors of Islam and the might of Byzantium to establish the Kingdom of Heaven. the Americas 
 make an appearance in the New World campaign which follows the footsteps of Cortez and the Spanish 
 as they battle to defeat powerful Native American nations such as the Aztecs, Mayans and the Apachean 
 tribes. In the Britannia capaine which is set in the 13th centuary the English and the Scots, Irish, 
 Welsh and Norwegians for control of the British Isles. Last but not least The Teutonic campaign 
 pits the pagan Lithuanians against Christian powers in a clash between the Old Gods and the New 
 Testament. Other then the new fractions in the game, plus there are 50 new building types and over 
 a hundred new units. game style as not really changed from the original much. The major change 
 in the gameplay is the usage of priests, spies, princesses and assassins because they all have 
 have a more political/religous part to play this time around. Of course there the new fractions 
 that I mentioned earler to play in the multiplayer as well as maps. What I did not like was the 
 AI pathfinding is still a bit wonky, both on the strategic level and the tactical level. On the 
 overland map, armies will automatically choose to go the long way around when shorter routes are 
 blocked by the enemy and cavalry will still run the wrong direction and stop short on charges from 
 time to time. 
  
  Graphics: Well once again creative assembly has done well with the graphics. They are really colorful 
 and detailed. I was suprised how smoothly everything ran with such a huge map and battlefield with 
 sometimes thousands of troops running around. 
  
  Sound: Sound is pretty good in this game. Sound effects are really well done from the voice acting 
 to the galloping of hooves. Of course the soundtrack is marvalus and suits the time period of the 
 game.
  
  Value: All in all this is a great expantion and is well worth buying and playings this game and 
 will keep you occupied for a very long time. The thing I did not like about this game was it took 
 a ridiculously long time to install. It seems like ages ago that I was shocked by a game that took 
 up a full gigabyte on my hard drive. But other then that, go out there and get that game, for RTS 
 fans and non RTS fans just play it, it's a great game. I give this game 8.5 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Krypteia_mTc
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 6, 2008 7:16 pm PT
Review:  This expansion provides new maps that focus on a more in depth game play experience in an isolated 
 part of the map. In the original Medieval 2 all European and middle eastern kingdoms were at your 
 disposal, and the entire world map was yours to fight for control over. Now with Total War Kingdoms 
 you get to take an in depth look at some key areas of the middle ages, like the Holy Lands during 
 the crusades, or Britain as civil war tears the kingdom apart, you can explore the Americas as 
 Spain, or defend your homeland as the native Americans, or even strive for religious dominance 
 in Northern Europe.
  
  If you are interested in any particular time in history mention, or any of the cultures involved 
 Kingdoms will provide you with several more hours of game play. The more isolated campaigns will 
 provide a more fulfilling experience for players who may be interested in those factions, and the 
 game still provides a challenge for a player trying to dominate the entire map, despite the smaller 
 scale. 
  
  The bread and butter still stay with the Kingdoms expansion. None of the game mechanics have changed, 
 and the visuals are just as spectacular as they were in Medieval 2. The required specs still remain 
 the same, which means you wont need to upgrade to play this game; however that also means that 
 more units involved in a battle can still bog down performance, even on higher end machines, so 
 I would recommend lower some of the video settings and maybe setting the unit scale to low.
  
  For a fan of Medieval 2 the Total War Kingdoms expansion provides a worthwhile gaming experience 
 that provides a more immersive look at some more isolated instances of the Medieval 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ventroy47
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 27, 2008 4:09 pm PT
Review:  The best thing about this whole game is the fact that you get 4 games in one price with amazing 
 campaings ranging from the Holy War known as the Crusades all the way to Spains Lust for gold. 
 The game ranges from several factions and all of them are amazing in their own way, except for 
 Lithuania, because thier troops just rout like little SISSYS!
  
  The huge postive of this whole game is the strategy and the negative being that early in the game 
 everything is really slow and weak. As the size of army's and quality is really small, since everyone 
 has spear militia or some cariation of a mailed night but after you get to the big parts where 
 everyone gets unique and powerful things get interesting as battles and relationships get epic 
 and depending on the growth of the empire you can have Polish fight against English or Moors fight 
 Russians, the possibility are endless. Overall 9.5 out of 10 Can't wait for Empire Total War 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LazyGamer_24
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 25, 2008 9:08 pm PT
Review:  Medieval II: Total war Kingdoms can only be described by one word... huge! This expansion pack includes 
 four brand new campaigns: the Britannia Campaign, the Crusades Campaign, the Teutonic Campaign, 
 and the Americas Campaign.
  
  There are over 150 new units and 13 new features. New features include moated fortresses (Britannia) , 
 permanent forts (Britannia) , hero characters with special abilities (Crusade) , hotseat mode which 
 is like LAN, but there's people playing on one single computer, and much more.
  
  In the Britannia Campaign, you can play as the English, Welsh, Irish, Norwegians, and Scots. The 
 English have control over most of Britain, and are still trying to conquer it, but there is threat 
 of rebellion of the English Barons plotting against the English King.
  
  The Crusades Campaign allow s you to play as five factions: the Kingdom of Jerusalem, the Principality 
 of Antioch, the Egyptians, the Turks, and the Byzantines. If you know about the crusades, you must 
 conquer the Holy Land from the crusaders or the infidels.
  
  The Teutonic Campaign is about the ruthless Teutonic Knights who are assigned to get rid of the 
 Pagan threats in Europe. The factions are the Teutonic Order, Danish, Lithuanians, Novgorod, and 
 the Holy Roman Empire and Polish which you need to unlock.
  
  Finally, last, the Americas Campaign where Spain has discovered th new world and must conquer and 
 explore the unknown mysterious world. The factions are the Aztecs, Mayans, New Spain, Apachean 
 Tribes, and the unlockables the Tlaxcalans, Chichimec Tribes, and the Tarascans.
  
  Medieval II: Total War Kingdoms is a definite recommend expansion adding a lot more hours of gameplay 
 to your Total War gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JwresB
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 20, 2008 1:03 am PT
Review:  After enduring an excruciatingly time-consuming installation, I was able to try one of the four 
 different campaigns - Americas, Crusades, Teutonic and Britannia. Each of these brings a specific 
 set of factions and units to control. Fighting in the Britannia campaign, means you take part in 
 the 13th century conflicts between the English, Welsh, Scots, Irish and Norwegians - normally, 
 your goal is to spread the influence of your faction across the British Isles, the map of which 
 has been expanded by the way. Should you want to try out the Crusades map, you'll be thrown into 
 a land where powerful Christian factions (such as the Kingdom of Jerusalem or the Principality 
 of Antioch) fight for domination over the forces of Islam and the Byzantium Empire. Here you may 
 also choose the Egyptians and the Turks, who are fiercely fighting to preserve their lands. The 
 Teutonic campaign depicts the historical clashes of the Lithuanians and Christian forces, such 
 as the powerful Teutonic Order of Knights (Denmark and Novgorod factions were also thrown in) .
 
  If you're worried about numbers, you should be happy to know that Kingdoms includes over 100 new 
 units, 13 new factions, nine new agents, 50 new structures to build and more. There are also 15 
 new multiplayer maps and scenarios on offer.
  On the whole, instead of messing with the familiar basic gameplay mechanics, Creative Assembly 
 decided to deliver as much fresh content as possible, which means you'll be busy with the game 
 for quite some time. Each campaign provides a unique experience and we fully recommend the game 
 to fans of the series
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dgsag
Rating: 9
Date: May 11, 2008 8:31 am PT
Review:  Full review and score breakdown here:
  http://www. poland. us/strona,33,2563,0. html
  
  Creative Assembly's back with an expansion that adds tons of content to its award-winning Medieval 
 II: Total War.
  
  Kingdoms features four unique single-player campaigns: Britannia, the Crusades, the Teutonic Knights, 
 and the Americas. Surprisingly, each campaign feels fresh and built from the ground up, complete 
 with its own music, units, rule changes, and more. These campaigns play on smaller maps as opposed 
 to the large, Europe map found in the original game, but they feel just as epic.
  
  The new Britannia campaign has you playing as either England or one of the smaller nations (Scotland, 
 Ireland, Wales, and Norway) trying to fight back. England is a challenge to play, with you being 
 under attack from all sides right from the start. You'll be managing limited resources, trying 
 to upgrade your territories and create armies.
  
  The Crusades campaign lets you play from the perspective of either the Crusader states or their 
 Egyptian and Turkish foes. Historical events often intrude upon your campaign, such as the appearance 
 of another European crusade, or the appearance of the feared Mongols. Each faction has special 
 hero units that represent famous figures from history, featuring extra abilities beyond that of 
 regular generals.
  
  The Teutonic campaign describes the attempt to convert the pagan Lithuania. This campaign features 
 some gameplay tweaks like a castle-orientated economy for the Teutonic knights.
  
  The Americas campaign lets you play as the Spanish, the Mayans, the Aztecs, and the Apachean tribes 
 in North America. The Spanish will find themselves vastly outnumbered and have to use technology 
 to outwit their enemies. The native tribes are quite different from the other civilizations. For 
 example, they have no cavalry units and feature ritual sacrifices, which boost city happiness, 
 as well as warpaths, the Native American equivalent to crusades.
  
  Kingdoms significantly adds replayability to the original game, making it an excellent value. All 
 of these campaigns are interesting and well done, and offer a bit more variety when compared to 
 the original game's content. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hockeytx27
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 22, 2008 3:52 pm PT
Review:  great game, i love that there are 4 differant campaigns. i also like that each campaign is differant 
 and not just the same but as a differant nation or people. truely through i have few problems with 
 this game. the main one is that you have so little to conquer. espically with the crusades campaign. 
 im fine with the americas and tetonic. the britan campain also had few land to conquer. another 
 is that you have so few nations to pick from when playing all of these games. in the briatan there 
 are only scot, irish, englesh, nroman/danes. the crusades jerusalem, antioch, bysantine, turks, 
 eygpt. the americas have many but few to play as mainly the aztecs spaniards, and mayans, the tetonic 
 danes, poland, tetonic, normans, mongals, lugarians, and a couple others. i love that there is 
 no pope or senate to moniter you and point out your every wrong move. personally i love this game. 
 yet another great game made by the total war sega 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sniperwolf_SN
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 17, 2008 5:51 am PT
Review:  In Medieval 2 total war : Kingdoms
  there is 4 games in 1... but every game of those, you will need a special experience for every 
 one.
  
  In amiricas campaign you will see alot of new units, new religions, new music, new buildings, and 
 new rules. there is no cities and castles and you need to get more respect from mother spain to 
 inlarge your cities. also mother spain will send you more units and money, and that will noise you 
 if you are aztec or mayan... . After sometime another Europe faction will come to get rich.
  
  In crusades campaign you can use a special men and use their powerful to force your enemies, 
 like richard and sala deen. Here there is a new weapon also, a perfect one of them is "greek fire 
 throwerIts new and supreme !
  
  The new thing in teutonic campaign is the weapons of teutonic faction, you will fight with Lithuania 
 to death, this campaign dont have a new rules, its the same like Medieval 2, but there is a new 
 units, music, etc.
  
  In Britain campaign there is a new rules... there is no religion or priests, the poeple will be 
 happy if you are english and alot of them are too.
  also you wil use the fortresses alot in this campaign. and there is alot of real character, for 
 example... king edward of England.
  
  I think this new package will also improve the details on the old campaign map, and on battles.
 
  
  I think a new rules of evrey one will kill boring along time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AtillaTheHun
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 21, 2008 1:42 am PT
Review:  When i first played this expansion for Medieval Total War 2 i was amazed with all the new races 
 on the Americas Campaign.
  
  When i went on the crusades campaign it was boring, Sala 'udin didnt last long either, he died 
 in a few turns....
  
  I never used the crusaders, i prefer to use the honorable muslims then the crusades.
  
  Again! 
 still cant use the mongols!!! god damn it im a fan of the great khan so make him useable ffs!!!!, 
 many others are fans of him aswel!!.
  
  The time limit and conditions are just stupid, 10 turns to capture this, 5 turns to capture this 
 10 turns to shut up and allow unlimited time!
  
  Theres no use on putting a time limit that just makes the game stupid, i dont want to rush a game 
 that could go on for hours.
  
  The technology for the apaches is just stupid but its kinda true, they werent very intelligent 
 on there technology but the good thing is they learn once you kill the enemy afew times.
  
  The movies of assassinations and spying has been discarded for the americas campaign im not sure 
 about the crusades or britainia i only went on them for few secs.
  
  For the aztecs and the mayans i found it fun sacrifising spanish, english and french colonists, 
 they deserved to die anyway, america isnt there land hahaha it belongs to the red indians!.
  
  Sacrifising in the name of the sun god, the good thing is when you do that your generals or 
 War Leaders gain loyality.
  
  The idea of making 4 seperate campaigns was just stupid...
  
  The person who thought of that idea should be shot tbh.
  
  I reckon in future total war 
 games it should be all over the world!
  
  I dont want to use europeans all the time, i wanna use chinese, mongolian, russian, japanese, indian 
 and afghanistani people.
  
  Also with free religion, i wanna beable to use any god damn religion i want like you could in civilization 
 4!.
  
  So if the person is reading this wants to get this game! go and jihad some crusaders! cause this 
 expansion isnt worth what the shops are selling it for!.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hun_Birodalom
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 3, 2008 8:03 pm PT
Review:  I really like this expansion, the game finally focuses on significant historical events in detail. 
 I kind of missed that in M2TW. My favourite part of Kingdoms would have to be the Crusader Campaign. 
 I just can't get enough of the it. Although the only "useful" crusade was the 1st one with the 
 capture of Jerusalem in 1099, they were epic and most certainly fascinating. It just goes to show 
 you the power of faith, because even though many of the high ranking crusaders joined the holly 
 war because of corruption and money, the common soldier truly believed in the forgiveness of their 
 sins in exchange for fighting in the name of God. There is lots of content in this expansion, I 
 recommend it to anyone who enjoys strategy games and is a must play for those who like history.
 
  God Bless Hungary ! Isten Aldja Magyarorszagot! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Magyar_Kiralyfi
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 3, 2008 11:49 am PT
Review:  This expansion adds large amounts of content for its little price. Even if you're not interested 
 in the the four expansion campaigns, and want to just wage-war across the whole of Europe, then 
 downloading the CA employee created Retro-fit mod allows for you to enjoy the expansion's content 
 in the original Grand Campaign.
  
  The visuals, music and sounds are all beautiful as before. The expansion also boosts an improved 
 AI, and a user friendly Hotseat mod which can be accessed in the Multiplayer screen.
  
  However, what many reviewers seem to not bother mentioning are the flaws in the game. And I'm not 
 talking about minor things like Hungarians and Danes using the Slavic voice-set, there are some 
 serious bugs.
  
  1) Unit path-finding in cities and castles is still an issue.
  
  2) AI still acts passively on occasion during sieges.
  
  3) Some of the features Kingdoms promised 
 to released don't work, such as Permanent Stone Forts.
  
  Fortunately, CA has announced it is releasing a new patch to fix bugs, so these things shouldn't 
 worry you too much.
  
  A great expansion to a great game, and well worth the price. Buy it if you enjoyed the original 
 Medieval 2: Total War, as it is a great improvement on it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arthasonspeed
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 13, 2007 6:10 am PT
Review:  Being an old-school total war fan ( I actually have Shogun: Total War , somewhere, gathering dust 
 ) I really liked Medieval and Rome Total War, but the second Medieval couldn't top the old classics.
 
  Kingdoms is more of the same of Medieval: Total War; but this time you get to conquer four smaller 
 areas: America, Northeast Europe, West-Asia and the British Isles.
  Big differences with the original game are special events ( such as rising of hero's like William 
 Wallace, who are often accompanied by gigantic armies ) and changes in religion.
  The 4 campaigns all are accompanied with a lot of new units and buildings, belonging the the new 
 factions, giving some campaigns 
  ( especially the America's ) a refreshed look and new challenges.
  The campaigns are a tad easy 
 for veterans, but newcomers should find it a challenge to unite the America's, let us say, under 
 Mayan rule?
  The different campaigns allow for a lot of what-if-scenario's, with the America's campaign being 
 the most fun and challenge when playing with the Native-Americans, trying to fight off the Spanish, 
 French and English.
  For those who want more of the Total-War buzz, this is a great game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sNaKeyy
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 8, 2007 6:53 am PT
Review:  I heard of Kingdoms just after Creative Assembly announced Empire: Total War. I was absolutely 
 sure that this expansion won't be so great like Alexander or Barbarian Invasion because they'll 
 consider more important Empire game. I was wrong at all. This is the best expansion in series, 
 with 4 new and innovative campaigns. I got 4 desktop shortcuts with Americas, Britannia, Crusades 
 and Teutonic. All of them are different from original Medieval: Total War and the content was big. 
 For about 30 minutes i waited for the installation to be done, that's a lot for a RTS game, 12.8GB.
 
  Crusades was the most impressive of all, with the 2 crusades involved by Byzantine, Venetians, 
 Turks and others. I enjoyed it a lot, the Cavalry was beautifully on deserts, and the night fights 
 are great. 
  This game worths it's money, buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ArturiusMaxwell
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 6, 2007 8:35 am PT
Review:  I loved the first version, plus the viking invasion add on and the shogun total wars to boot so 
 I had alot of expectation for this one. It might be said that this is very nearly the best turn 
 based strategy game I've ever played, and it would be right. Every single aspect of it is beautiful, 
 the battles and their fully 3D zoomable landscapes with their own brand of 'Fog of War' and the 
 pausable action. The world map with is creative detail and careful artwork, the trading and polotics 
 with the added options and abilities. It is truely a great and worthy game, but.
  
  Yes the dreaded but that most, not all but most game designers fear. This is just a revamped and 
 dusted off version of the original, even with the expansions for GLOBAL CONQUEST. It is still only 
 a one player strategy game, the multiplayer option does not work work the campaign section. That 
 and that alone was my one bug bear with the original, I put in emails asking for them to design 
 a patch or an add on or something to make the multiplayer campaign funtion reality but they only 
 dusted off the original, tweaked a few details and sold it with what was quickly followed by expansions 
 to include other countries into the one player campaigning.
  
  It is because of this that I give it a 7.5, if a patch or even Total wars multiplayer expansion 
 came out to allow multiplayer campaigning then I will up this to its deserved 9. 1 point off for 
 small problems that really arent' worth mentioning. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cbealo
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 25, 2007 3:24 pm PT
Review:  This expansion creates 4 new games that build on the older one, with better maps, armies, graphics 
 and operations of characters. The assassins now get the job done! This expansion makes for longer, 
 more interesting campaigns with more diversity within each game. You can fight battles on several 
 fronts. It is alo possible to engage more troops and get them to travel further in a turn: a great 
 improvement. The armies also rally more often, and range over the battlefield more realistically. 
 The addition of "heroic" characters adds interest, though Saladdin is difficult to defeat. How 
 come he has such huge armies? The maps are larger, and the graphics superb. The detail of the buildings 
 is particularly striking. This is a superb RTS game that will become a classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: remusgd13
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 20, 2007 3:01 am PT
Review:  Great game. It is a shame the original game wasn't as good as the expansions. The bugs have been 
 eliminated and combat realism has risen. I would have liked a campaign for shogun, but you can't 
 have them all. The Crusades Campaign is very intense and also the Teutonic Campaign. The English 
 Campaign is a little bit boring and unbalanced. The Americas Campaign I consider fun to play but 
 only for a while. They should have kept this campaign for the next Total War ( Empire called) .
 
  The weakest thing is diplomacy. It is stupid and senseless. Your allies attack you, they steal 
 your merchants, they use assassins and spies on you. Stupid. No matter how nice you behave to your 
 neighbors or how powerful you are, in the end, they will attack you. The diplomacy is something 
 like :" don't trust anyone". Another not so great thing is the way time flows in the game. I understand 
 that the game was made to have powerful generals ( the Crusades) command your armies, but to have 
 generals with the age of 50 but who have been on the map for about 60-70 years is ridiculous. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimhasley
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 4, 2007 9:13 am PT
Review:  Awesome game, exactly what I wanted in a Total War game. I was reluctant to get this game because 
 I knew how much time I would be spending on it. I really enjoy how they made historically less 
 powerful nations a larger part of the game. You really feel that you are fighting for your way 
 of life in the Americas campaign. If you're into strategy games, pick this up, or one of the games 
 in the Total War Series, very realistic combat systems. The vast additions to this game, make this 
 game worthwhile even after playing the original a few times. Though since the AI is built to resemble 
 battle strategies of that time, a player with modern knowledge of combat techniques can easily 
 beat a more numerous computer opponent. Getting Gorilla and attacking the flanks with calvary pretty 
 much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wardudex
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 2, 2007 9:22 am PT
Review:  Kingdoms has to be one of the best RTS games in the stores. it makes history in a real ife situation, 
 that one can control. One can play in four different campaigns as well has to control historical 
 characters that can make or end a war. Who doesnt want to be William Wallace (Braveheart) or Richard 
 the Lionheart in the Third Crusade. this is the best game i have ever played. i just wonder how 
 they are are going to top it with the next one. The only thing tht i can say about this game is 
 the size, its huge one is basiclly downloading for games in one. if you decied to get the game, 
 make sure that you have good RAM and hard drive space. it will help 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Polemistis
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 16, 2007 5:44 am PT
Review:  Medieval II Kingdoms is the best historic RTS game I have ever played and I have played many historic 
 RTS. It' s a really well improved version of Medievall 2 with some extra features like the four 
 new campaigns, many new factions , a lot of new kinds of soldiers ,new maps (eg America) , new 
 buildings etc . I hope that every fan of SEGA and Total War will be happy with this expansion pack 
 as I am. I am sure that I will spend the most hours of playing an expansion pack and that becaused 
 I haven't played it yet. I wish everyone will enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flakor
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 7, 2007 8:01 pm PT
Review:  Medieval II: Total War is something of a masterpiece when it comes to gamers who like to think 
 stragically, yet still be able to have the massive, epic battles seen in movies like Kingdom of 
 Heaven or Braveheart the issue is that the game didn't really cover those events. With the release 
 of its first expansion, Kingdoms, it really goes indepth with these events while still keeping 
 the gameplay awesome. First of all, Kingdoms is probably the best expansion I've ever bought, it 
 includes 4 new campaigns to play with somewhere around 130+ new units and multiple new factions. 
 Each of these Campaigns are worth an expansion on their own, but the Creative Assembly saw that 
 they were small enough to put into a single product. Secondly, the campaigns are all seperate programs, 
 allowing you to choose from the desktop one of the four you wish to play.
  
  The Campaigns look like this:
  -Crusades: Takes place right before the third crusade, when the 
 Egyptian and Turk forces start moving on Crusader Territory. In this you can play as the Kingdom 
 of Jerusalem, defenders of the holy city. The Principality of Antioch, their allies. The Egyptians, 
 leading massive armies from the South and The Turks, the infamous Islamic Faction. You can also 
 play as the Byzantines (who get the coolest unit in the whole game) who are against the Turks but 
 are shifty towards helping the Crusaders. This Campaign I found fun mostly because of the immense 
 amount of fighting your going to be doing. The Egyptians preety much send an army right off the 
 bat to Jerusalem, catching you off-guard. Throughout the campaign there are what I call twists 
 to the campaign such as the Arrival of Richard the Lion-Heart, the Arrival of the Venetians in 
 the Fourth Crusade and the Mongol Hordes. Each one of these events have ramifications for the factions, 
 the Mongols, will usually encourage you to ally with all the factions and team up on this grand 
 horde. While the Venetians will start causing trouble for the Byzantines. -Teutonic Order: Takes 
 place in Eastern Europe in what is today Russia, the Teutonic Order, a military order formed during 
 the Third Crusade, will begin a series of attacks on the Lithuanians, the last of the Pagan Factions. 
 Theres a lot of factions that take part in this and I will not list them out of lazyness. What 
 I liked about this one was the set up of the Teutonic Cities, they are put in what appears to be 
 a hook which will allow you to do some mischevious tactics on the Battle-Map. Should you get enough 
 resources, it is possible to do a full out attack on two of the Lithuanian Cities, which when captured, 
 will seperate the Lituanian Borders. If you have enough enemies you can go ahead and siege every 
 city in this boundtry you have made and can quite possibly take a huge chunk out of Lithuanian 
 territory in a period of 4-5 turns. One thing I don't like is the diplomacy, if you play as the 
 Teutonics, you'll find yourself constantly losing friends due to the AI's over-enthusiastic ability 
 to make allies. By the end of the campaign you could find yourself under attack on all fronts. 
 -Britiannia: Didn't spend as much time with this one so I don't have much to say but it reminded 
 me a bit like RTW: Barbarian Invasion where you seem to lose cities often and have to waste time 
 and money to quell these Rebellions. It is possible to have all the other factions against you, 
 within 10-13 turns I found myself being assualted on multiple sides.
  
  -Americas: The Americas Campaign is a unique one in the Total War series, as you can't see the 
 whole map, its black. You have to explore it using Guides or just by moving troops around. In this 
 Campaign you can play as New Spain who will constantly have money to pay for Mercenaries (and there 
 are a lot of them) to keep the fuels of conquest going. Or some of the Native tribes such as the 
 Mayans who have a special ranged unit that throws Hornets Nests. This is probably the hardest of 
 the campaigns and I recommend it to Total War Veterans looking for a great challenge. First of 
 all, the Mercenaries you hire arn't the best troops, they are light infantry and can't hold off 
 Jaguar Warriors as easy as standard troops. One unit I came to love in this campaign are the Sword 
 and Buckler Men, they seem to be able to take on almost any unit and do well. If you play it on 
 hard mode, you'll discover that if you march too far out you could get into deep trouble. An example 
 is when I took over a Aztec City but suffered huge casulties. The next turn a huge Aztec army retaliated 
 and sieged the city. At first it seemed hopeless, but when I decided to command the troops myself, 
 I managed to hold back the army that not only out-numbered me two to one, but was made of tougher 
 units than mine. At the beginning of the battle I had 600 men, only 20 of those who were Spanish 
 Units. At the end I had 200 men, and 2 Spanish Men (Sword and Buckler Men, at the front lines the 
 whole time) though it was a victory, I wouldn't be able to move out again for 6 turns. One thing 
 that the campaign encourages you to do is ally with the smaller tribes. I immediadly allied with 
 the Txlacticans who were already with war with the Aztecs. Throughout the campaign you'll get more 
 supplies, more men and Gunpowder to fight the tribes to recreate the Genocidal take over of the 
 New World.
  
  In the end, Kingdoms is an amazing package. That will keep you busy for a while. Controlling Reinforcement 
 armies is cool, but it isn't enough to really make a difference in battle and sometimes its better 
 to have the AI take control. The Unique Units to the game are well made and are even. Still, the 
 Greek-Fire is the most fun you'll ever have with an army that has purple colors. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GreySeven
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 29, 2007 6:35 pm PT
Review:  For me, this is some of the best historical RTS there is. It's a numbers game of armies, but strategy 
 too. Can an army of 300 hold against an invading army of 1000? Yeah, but there's gonna be load 
 of bodies int he street. Awesome.
  
  This expansion, simply, has a lot to offer. When you play TWM2 it can be both overwhelming and 
 freeing all the same. You have all the time you need to take over what you need and whoever you 
 want to do it. Want to train up a diplomat to buy out the enemy? Ok. Marry your princess to the 
 rival faction heir? Ok. Tromp them to dust with artillery and cavalry? Ok. The same applies to 
 this expansion, but now with some quirky scenarios. For the Crusades campaign, you only have 30 
 turns for your ultimate objective which means you're at war from the start to finish. The Americas 
 campaign works on conquest, the more you do the more units you get, and the units you make aren't 
 so great, so you end up relying on those shipped in units. And so on. I think it's all very cool.
 
  
  There are a few things I didn't really like, including the enormous chunk on hard drive space it 
 takes and the sorta clumsy way the game starts up and starts the campaigns. For me, I'd rather 
 see one in-game screen with the selection of all three campaigns instead of a window selection 
 along side a survey. Also, I like Denmark. I played Denmark my second run through the original 
 game, and for the Britannia campaign I tried Norway. They were a little too similar for my tastes. 
 Maybe they should be, maybe they shouldn't be, but my understanding of Norway is of more light 
 armored fellows with big swords and morning star cavalry than was seen in the game. The Teutonic 
 Knights were really cool. Like every unit is a heavy unit. I like that.
  
  Buy this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lostsole89
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 29, 2007 4:02 pm PT
Review:  A great expansion to an amazing game. All four of the campaigns offer a different exiting new game 
 in themselves. I like the addition of different new units for each faction too, it really makes 
 a difference to the game play rather than the original units from Medieval 2. I especially liked 
 the addition of special units for different factions in the Crusades campaign, the addition of 
 Greek Firethrower to the Byzantine empires arsenal was a great touch. The Teutonic campaign was 
 also a joy to play with the addition of specialised Pagan units for Lithuania, it gives a new dimension 
 to the game. A further improvement to the game is the graphics, it honestly shocked me at how good 
 the quality was. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sridanu
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 26, 2007 11:04 pm PT
Review:  First things first. Kingdoms is not just an expansion for Medival 2 Total war. Its actually 4 lengthy 
 expansions put into 1.
  
  The game play hasn't change at all. None of the concepts of the original have been changed in the 
 expansion. The only thing that has been changed are the number of playable factions along with 
 their new units. As for the campaigns except for the Americas campaign all the other campaigns 
 have a slight resemblense to the original games campaign. The difficulty of each campaign differs 
 considerably and depends on which faction you decide to play as. For example I found it extremely 
 difficult to play as the Mayans in the Americas campaign and quite easy to play as the Teutonic 
 knights in the Teutonic campaign.
  
  The game is a solid expansion which will provide all Total war lovers with hours of joy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_angry_amish
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 26, 2007 6:35 am PT
Review:  I was hoping there would be some additions to the Grand Campaign, but in actuality this expansion 
 pack just turned out to be a series of 4 small games. Well designed and interesting games, but 
 4 small games nevertheless. There was no interconnectivity between any of the small campaigns, 
 and sometimes it didn't even feel like I was playing A total war game. The ability to semi-control 
 AI reinforcments on the field was a crucial update, but more could still be done in that field. 
 The Teutonic and Americas Campaign are my favorite. The Crusades one is ok, and I felt like the 
 Britannia campaign was too similar to the Medival Total War I: Viking Invasion Expansion Pack to 
 be worth much playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blazer88
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 23, 2007 3:32 pm PT
Review:  This has to be one of the, if not the largest expansion ever made. It features not 1 new campaign, 
 not 2 or 3, but 4 new campaigns. Thats a whole lot of hours of gameplay. Unlike expansions from 
 the past the this one isn't nessacarily a continuation of the last game and rather various scenarios 
 that take place in the time period and in some cases some are more in depth versions of things 
 contained in the original game it seems. For instance there is an Americas campaign in this but 
 it seems to be slightly beyond the discovery period and more about establishing a more permanent 
 foothold, or preventing that from happening if you happen to be playing the Aztecs or Mayans. There 
 is also the Crusades which while crusades were a part of the parent game they were not the main 
 focus. The last two campaigns are Britannia and Teutonic Knights. If you played the core game it 
 is pretty much more of the same with a few differences specific to each campaign.
  I only have a few complaints about this game and they are ones that have persisted throughout CA's 
 use of this engine. One is the AI could stand to be a little smarter. The path finding in city 
 fights is not too great and finally I wish the computer diplomacy would be improved since the AI 
 is almost never willing to deal with you unless it they make an offer. And the relations themselves 
 do not always make sense as aren't often find myself scratching my head on why they have all of 
 sudden changed.
  I will say this much they aren't quite as irrational in this one as in the core game where a faction 
 that is across the map and no direct contact with you is all of sudden mad at you.
  At any rate this is still great game that should not be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bbkd3b
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 17, 2008 1:21 pm PT
Review:  With Medieval II: Total War, Creative Assembly brought a massive strategy game with great graphics 
 and intense gameplay. On Kingdoms, they take the gameplay and inrease the pace while providing 
 four excellent campaigns.
  
  The Britannia campaign is fast-paced and much like a sized-down version of Medieval II. You can 
 play as five factions: England, Wales, Norway, Scotland, and of course, Ireland. Your main goal 
 is to conquer Britannia and Ireland, and nearly every turn will bring some sort of battle, skirmish, 
 or siege.
  
  In the Teutonic campaign, you can take control of the legendary and infamous Teutonic Order as 
 you try to take control of northern Europe while disposing of the pagan Lithuanians. It's a different 
 kind of campaign in that the Teutonic Order only builds castles, making your economy a bit of a 
 challenge to manage. Meanwhile, as the pagans, you get the option to convert to Catholicism, but 
 you'll have to sacrifice certain bonuses you get from worshiping pagan gods. Overall, it's not 
 quite as fast-paced as Britannia, but you have to manage it well nonetheless.
  
  The Crusades campaign takes place in the middle east and Asia Minor, ranging from Constantinople 
 to Baghdad, and southwest into Egypt. Of course, the main challange is to conquer the area, and 
 ultimately convert them to your religion, be it Catholicism, Islam, or Orthodox. This is as close 
 to the Medieval II grand campaign as you'll get in the expansion. The campaign requires good management 
 skills as cities start off large and you don't have quite the funds to build the necessary buildings. 
 You'll have to expand quick and then watch out for rival factions.
  
  Perhaps the most original campaign, though, is the Americas campaign. You can play as Spain and 
 hope to conquer the Americas, or as a native faction, such as the Aztecs, Mayans, and Apache tribes. 
 Spain brings an interesting challenge as you have to rely on mercenaries to keep your army strong, 
 and in order to expand cities, you have to be granted titles by the king of Spain. The Apache also 
 provide an interesting new gameplay as you'll never grow beyond a village and can steal enemy technology. 
 If you play as the Mayans, Aztecs, or Spain, this campaign is going to be intense and fast from 
 the first turn to the last. Oh, and eventually, the French and English will pop up to give you 
 an even bigger hassle.
  
  The graphics are as sharp as ever. The campaign map is well-designed and landscapes are portrayed 
 beautifully. The battles look beautiful and the troops are all realistically designed. The sound 
 is crisp. During battles you can hear the roar of a cannon, the clashing of swords, and the screams 
 of dying soldiers.
  
  Overall, the expansion pack is solid. It expands on the original, and it also fixes a couple of 
 errors (assassinations, for example, are now possible as opposed to the ridiculously small chance 
 of success in the original) . Each campaign is fun to play, and you'll suffer from chronic "one 
 more turn" syndrome. If you're a fan of Medieval II, this is a must-have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vasot
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 22, 2007 10:12 am PT
Review:  Medieval 2 was a great game Very nice Graphics
  Deep Gameplay
  Very good sound and music
  
  This expansion Kingdoms has some very strong and good campaigns but does not really add anything 
 really new in the game
  
  Feels more like a good mod to me than a expansion
  
  Not that i do not have a good time with it. It is just that it is nothing really so special to 
 give your money for ... unless if you are a hardcore fan of the total war series After some hours 
 you will find yourself doing exactly the same thing with whatever faction you play... The expansion 
 is pretty stale
  
  Anyway it is a good experience for some hours
  
  I am looking forward for Empires TW seems like a game with something really different this time 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hellequin85
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 17, 2007 1:03 pm PT
Review:  I have been a fan of the Total war series since the first Medieval I was looking forward to this 
 expansion pack, and it doesn't disappoint. Excited by the recent news of Empire Total Wat I looked 
 forward to more grand battles and detailed campaigns and so, in preparation for the next in the 
 series I purchased the expansion pack for Medieval two... and discovered a game in it's own right. 
 Now, there have been several comments about compatability issues and, because of this, I spend 
 an hour or so beforehand installing the patches from Gamespot for Medieval two. The result? An 
 effortless install without a hint of trouble. Anyway, the game is superb with more of the usual 
 total war action, huge battles, detailed strategy and such. What sets this apart from other expansion 
 packs is the sheer scale of the thing! It's like having four seperate Total War games, each highly 
 detailed and each a lot of fun. If you enjoyed Medieval two then you'll love this, I'd just recommend 
 spending the time to download the updates before hand. Now... where did I leave my longsword... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KellyMc26
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 17, 2007 7:55 am PT
Review:  I don't review many games because, while I do experiment in genres, I tend to migrate back to RTS/BTS 
 strategy games. The Total War series has always been unique in blending the two, and doing so with 
 incredible production values. If you ever wanted any kind of hint of what is involved in sieging 
 a castle or in fielding varied troops across a huge battlefield, no game does it better than M2: TW. 
 This X-pack offers some real focus via set conflicts that you can play from multiple perspectives. 
 In doing so, it's a bit like fast-forwarding an epic campaign to some of its most interesting moments. 
 Throw in some historical triggers (like Edward returning to England from the Crusades) , and there 
 is that added bit of spice and strategic tension. I, for one, had no problem with a fresh install. 
 Yes, it took forever... but so what? Download the updates while you walk the dog or play another 
 game. Complaining about the length of time it takes to install all this great content is like complaining 
 your apartment is too small after you've stuffed it with purchases from a shopping spree. What 
 these complaints really come down to (not discounting those who literally can't get the game to 
 install, which is odd but surely rare) , is players don't want to wait to jump in and play! With 
 that, I certainly agree. At least you have the option of installing the new content in modular 
 fashion, if you like.
  
  How about the gameplay itself? Well, it's vintage Total War with a bit more focus and scripting. 
 Actually, it's that and a ton more content in the form of new units and other media, like music, 
 etc. Does it reinvent the series? No. But does it capitalize on a wish list that is by now several 
 years and several hundred pages long? Pretty much. In the end, that's what you are paying for with 
 this expansion: the culmination of massive amounts of player feedback and developer upgrades. Is 
 the game perfect? No game is. There are still some annoying flaws in the AI, like letting units 
 sit idle while in the line of missile attack. The AI also sorely lacks the ability to coordinate 
 its unit types effectively. Thus, I set the difficulty to Very Hard to make up for some of that, 
 and it surely is a bit disappointing that added AI bonuses are needed to make up for clear AI flaws. 
 But here's my closing comment: the game is just plain fun. If nothing else, you owe it to yourself 
 to see this Magnum Opus in action. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gijas
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 16, 2007 1:59 pm PT
Review:  METW2 - TWK is a awesome game and expansion at that. You get a lot more than most game expansions 
 afford you these days but I won't go in great detail about all the features since you can read 
 this information else where.
  
  Gameplay: Much improved over the original with new units, nations and maps, diplomacy features 
 and the ability to play as the American natives for once. I have no idea why other games focusing 
 on American exploration do not include this feature and it makes for more diverse game play.
  
  Sound: Improvement but I personally did not notice much difference from the original's sound.
 
  
  Graphics: I did notice a improvement in some textures especially with the units and maps but are 
 pretty much the same deal here as the original.
  
  Replay: Awesome and it is to be expected with such a diverse game and series as TW. You could literally 
 play for months if not years utilizing different strategies, units, nations and diplomacy.
  
  Overall: If you have the original and even Rome TW I would recommend buying the original and 
 this expansion because they complement each other quite nicely. You will not regret experiencing 
 what this expansion has to offer and improve on from the past titles in the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EmporerRaven
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 16, 2007 10:17 am PT
Review:  Yes, like most people said, installation is a nightmare but once you finally get it installed it 
 quickly becomes a highly addictive and enjoyable game. Medieval II: Total War Kingdoms is split 
 into four campaigns that focus on various parts of history. The four campaigns are the Crusades 
 Campaign , the Americas Campaign, the Teutonic Campaign, and the Brittania Campaign. The music 
 is brilliant and Richard Vaughan (the composer who made the majority of the Kingdoms music) did 
 a great job in making the music, from the Native American instruments in the Americas, the eastern 
 sounds of the Crusades, the flutes and highland music of Brittania and last but not least the epic 
 orchestral feel in the Teutonic campaign gives you an immersive feeling in all the campaigns. My 
 review is quite long but hopefully if you have the patience to read it, you have the patience to 
 install the game.
  
  In the Americas the plains and jungles are simply amazing. The natives have swarms of archaic weaponry 
 while New Spain has small, elite armies with gunpowder and cavalry. This truly gives you the feel 
 of the technologically, yet outnumbered Spanish. The Apachean and Chichmec tribes have the ability 
 to learn the techniques of the Europeans and can later unlock gunpowder and cavalry. Expeditionary 
 forces from France and England also make an appearance later on.
  
  In the Brittania campaign, you choose from one of five factions to try to take control of the British 
 Isles. You get a feel for the large amounts of rolling hills, making some positions more favorable 
 in the battle map. Each faction has an emerging champion that will appear sometime in the campaign 
 to help give that faction an edge. The Baron's Alliance appears when the English Barons unite and 
 there are unrest problems. Low loyalty generals and characters have a chance to join it, making 
 an English player look carefully at his family members at all time. There are permanent forts all 
 around the isles, making them strategic points to take over giving the player many possible defensive 
 and offensive possibilities.
  
  The Crusades is the struggle between the Catholic Crusader states of the Principality of Antioch 
 and Kingdom of Jerusalem against the Islamic Turks and Egyptians. Orthodox Byzantium is neutral 
 but at war with the Turks, making it a wise move to ally with the Principality. Each faction has 
 a hero with a special ability, showing the effect and influence that each general had in this period 
 of history. Each faction has a power center settlement that gives them access to more powerful 
 units such as Greek Firethrowers or Kinghts of Jerusalem. The knightly orders play a heavy role 
 for the crusaders giving them access to special order units such as Canon of the Holy Sepulchre 
 or Constable of Jerusalem. There also some threats like the Venetians appearing to sack Constantinople 
 and the Mongol invasion that keeps you on the edge when you believe you have attained victory.
 
  
  Finally the Teutonic campaign focusing on the Baltic region and the battle between pagan Lithuania 
 and the Catholic Teutonic Order. The Order's main production comes from their red brick castles 
 and they must have a high percentage and Catholicism in their regions for their strongest units. 
 Lithuania can build different temples in each settlement which offers bonuses and an elite pagan 
 unit if they complete the chain. They can choose to turn to Catholicism but loses the benefits 
 of their temples and pagan units. The Hanseatic League appears to give trade bonuses to factions 
 the League's cities and the Kalmar Union appears for Denmark giving Scandinavia increased importance 
 for the Danes.
  
  Overall a very fun and enjoyable game if you can get it to work. Yes, my review is long but the 
 campaigns feel so epic its hard not to mention all of the points to the campaigns. Each campaign 
 gives various challenges to the different factions, giving it huge replayability and many different 
 options for each replay. If your a fan of the series, this is a must have and will easily hold 
 you over until CA releases Empires. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: musti_44
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 16, 2007 1:28 am PT
Review:  While this sounds sparse, the scenarios are deep, rich, and fulfilling. Very few things top massing 
 the army of Jerusalem to march to war. Also, with 110 new units, variety is truly the spice of 
 this expansion. My only complaint is that the game doesn't introduce any really new unique mechanics, 
 and although the new units are wonderful, they play like any other unit. Also, and this has always 
 been a flaw with Total War, the AI is spotty at best, and when you're defending against a siege, 
 you usually need to goad them into attacking. Aside from this standing flaw with the game, its 
 great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snuffydoc
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 15, 2007 7:42 pm PT
Review:  I have had a great time playing the underlying Medieval 2: Total War. I was so looking forward 
 to playing the expansion, but after several hours of trying, I have been unable to install the 
 game. The forums are absolutely full of questions and problems with the installation. The experts 
 give multiple suggestions for ways around the problems. My experience in other fields has been 
 that when there are multiple ways of treating a problem, none of them are very good. That is the 
 case here. I am an experienced gamer and had frustrating istallations before, but this beats all. 
 Let me know when the problems are fixed. In the meantime, do not buy the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sparten1012
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 15, 2007 6:30 pm PT
Review:  M2TW K is the best and most satisfying expansion in eney game Ive ever played it is almost as 
 massive as the original M2TW. TW has always given satisfying expansions but this one is about 5-6 
 X bigger then eney other TW expansion. Not only dose it have 4 new expansions but with hero characters 
 and mooted forts it adds a new form of strategy. The game has but 3 flows A: You cant play as every 
 nation B: a decently difficult game so noobs may make costly mistakes C: the hero characters tend 
 to die of old age before you can use them when you need them (later in the game) though the pros 
 beat the cons by far (note to noobs no offends about the noobs comment we all are them at one time 
 or another but you may want to start with M2TW but if you most play M2TWK I would advise the Teutonic 
 campaign as the Teutonic order but in time youll be fine) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: broncojrs90
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 13, 2007 11:43 pm PT
Review:  The new campaigns and features are a great addition. Just like other total war games the depth 
 of the new campaigns are huge. But everything great about this thing is weighted down by one simple 
 thing...
  
  It does nothing to improve the original game. Think it would be cool to have permanent forts in 
 the grand campaign? To bad as no features in the expansion can be used in the original. Sure there's 
 a mod that will make the original updated with re-balancing and stuff but thats about it. It just 
 gives Medieval a patch! Without the mod it would be more appropriate to call this a separate game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: osama777
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 13, 2007 1:48 pm PT
Review:  nice vision of the medieval world despite that is many things i wish to see in this expansion not 
 happen yet like:
  1) explore the city like we had in the great game Rome
  2) improve the art work and drawings that apear in the messages every turn ... also it was better 
 in rome but no critics to the overall of this game i see it so fair &amp; i feel like that i'll 
 never stop playing it.
  but there is a note why we did not see more asian factions in this expansion ,i think that many 
 of the asian factions had a great rule in the scene of the world in the medieval times may it's 
 a good idea too have an asian campaign in anothe expansion or a Muslims campaign it's a great idea 
 too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tetrasoft
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 12, 2007 4:54 pm PT
Review:  Big fans of the Total War series will agree that this expansion can be better described as several 
 games rolled into one expansion. Wonderful update to an already amazing RTS game. The expansion 
 feels more like a stand alone game than just an expansion. I hope they keep along these lines in 
 the future. At least offer Total War titles following through history up till present day. Without 
 a doubt the best 29.99 you will ever pay for an expansion. Add to that the updates to the game 
 and it does not get much better than this. Really when was the last expansion that offered so much. 
 Yes the install size is huge but really compared to most other games about twice the size of most. 
 Medieval 2 Total War I believe is about the best RTS on the market. I do hope they do continue 
 with the history line and not just skip to the future and forget the past. Its great to play total 
 war with robots but one thing about the Total War series is that is brought allot of RTS players 
 back into the fold with its wonderful graphics and game play. Rarely to you find both in the same 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SirGalaad
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 12, 2007 2:02 am PT
Review:  After some hours spent to play, I can say I like very much this extension. All the new contents 
 are very nice (maps, historical events, units, ...) . The installation is very long and takes many 
 space on harddisk. The four new campaigns have to launched seperately, so you have to quit the 
 game to launch another campaign, why not after all :-)
  
  I'm playing now the Britain campaign with the scottish. William Wallace has joined us and I'm preparing 
 to beat these evil British at Stirling :-) . Finally, the price of this extension is correct. If 
 you like Medieval 2: Total War, you must have this extension. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: callmepsycho
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 11, 2007 3:23 am PT
Review:  Kingdoms is by far the best expansion that has ever been released for the TW series. You effective 
 get four brand new games for what you would otherwise pay for half of one. Each of the campaigns 
 has its own unique feel and features. A new sound-score is also included and adds a great deal 
 of ambience to each game. The campaigns include:
  
  Britannia  A struggle for supremacy of the British Isles  think William Wallace
  Teutonic  
 A struggle for supremacy / religion in north / eastern Europe / Baltic coast  think Large scary 
 looking knights
  Americas  A struggle for supremacy in the New World  think Aztecs / sacrifice, Apaches
  Crusades 
 - A struggle for supremacy / religion in the Middle East  think Richard the Lionheart and Sala 
 ha Din
  
  The only faults I found with the game were the Scandinavian accents for the Norwegians, Scottish 
 for the Irish and English for the Welsh. There could have been a little more local flavour added 
 to some of the faction skins in the Britannia campaign and many shared similar types of units with 
 a mere colour change.
  
  All in all, I have had more enjoyment with Kingdoms than with the original games or any previous. 
 Well worth the $ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andriaschandra
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 11, 2007 12:58 am PT
Review:  Another great game to add to the already great series. The installation process is a let down, 
 though. Check out the Totalwar forum for possible solution if you're one of the throngs facing 
 this issue. I had to do a complete clean installation of Medieval 2, manually install the Update2 
 folder from the expansion disc, then install the expansion.
  
  Oh, you better have a big HDD space. I had to uninstall several games to accomodate this beast. 
 But maybe i need to upgrade my system.
  
  The expansion added little gameplay changes, but still, addictive &amp; refreshing enough. Each 
 of the campaign offers enough variations to keep you occupied for hours and hours. Not to mention, 
 you can play each campaign from different point of view. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nugster1121
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 10, 2007 6:50 pm PT
Review:  I say this because it's exactly the same probs as was encountered when medieval was released. Too 
 many units not doing as requested and AI moving me off defending bridges to defend open ground 
 against 2 armies. Both attacked from same side. Needs a patch desperately. Going back to Med until 
 available. You guys better be doing Rome 2. Now that would be cool. But all in all a decent if 
 not patchy addition to the series. Hotseat campaigning seems a bit of fun with the original but 
 I feel may be a little limited in time played for kingdoms. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anotonio_204
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 10, 2007 3:59 pm PT
Review:  1. If creative is making more expansion for Medieval 2 Total war, I believe and think of more features, 
 NOT just add on.
  
  2. Improve the AI and the game play options, EX; the diplomacy needs more feature and options, 
 to keep your allies on your side through out the game or fight your enemys. 3. add more real time 
 history castles, citys, and lands to conquer on the Huge campaign map, MORE LANDS...
  
  4. LET the Mongols be control !!!!
  
  The expansion was good, but it could of be much more 
 better if there are more features game play and optional game play. The next expansion better be 
 more improve NOT just add on, and I hope it's the Mongol expansion for this next one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: misha97
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 9, 2007 8:57 pm PT
Review:  I got it and was really happy, but had one problem... It takes a long time to install! The game 
 installs no problem, but the patch for Med 2 Total War.. That's the problem, so overall it takes 
 about an hour to install.
  Okay, i started playing as New Spain in the Americas Campaign on Easy.
  At least 20 turns later 
 5 huge Mayan armies come and take a couple of cities and ofcourse, bring down all my armies. Now, 
 Tetounic Campaign: from the beggining natrually your money goes Plump and gets less and less untill, 
 nothing. Okay went through the money, after that It's kind of easy and gets annoying. Brittania 
 Campaign as Irish so far so good, easy.
  Crusade campaign: playing for Kingdom of Jerusalem (or whatever you call them) . Untill you attack 
 Egypt you will have a huge army knocking on your door about every 2-5 turns. Okay The Graphics: 
 excellent, unless you have a old computer. Sound: Amazing, every nation, new music. Gameplay: Hard 
 Well Creative Assembly did have some creativity on the new nations except in the Americas Campaign. 
 They have like 6 Native American factions 4 of them, same units only different names for some of 
 them. Creative Assembly did do a good job on Teutonic, Crusades, and Brittania campaign. But in 
 Americas I excpected Aztecs, Maya etc. to have more, new units. Not same old ones from Med 2.
 
  Overall good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NEMOMUK
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 9, 2007 4:16 pm PT
Review:  this game is full of amazing details and the environments is wonderful
  units are great and the battle field is super look to their move and attack and blood that's amazing 
 and every campaign full of special details and own awesome music to put you in historic world and 
 never born when you play it .
  but i have a question the desktop shortcut appears on my desktop like white box ... but when I'm 
 click on any one it works correctly but still the icon like white box . if any one know why it 
 do that plz tell me .
  and there are something else when I'm play the england campaign there are battle every time i try 
 to play it the game crash and throw me outside and i check the graphic options and every thing 
 is ok , so if any one know why plz note me . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wsshell
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 9, 2007 8:42 am PT
Review:  a really good edition to medieval 2 they added 4 campaigns that give the factions with different 
 situations that feel different to each other for example england must fight on 3 fronts and they 
 are over stretched ,they have added new units and new factions. They try to give the different 
 campaigns a different feel to each of them for instance in the crusades there are hero's or in 
 the america's you must fight for the technology of the europeans. CA have added being able to command 
 reinforcement armys to a certain extent. Unit stats have changed but old probolems still remain 
 with the pikeman and the cavalry that still seem to remain to be like light cavalry they can have 
 one charge perhaps rout 2 or 3 units then they get bogged down. The installation is also a bit, 
 2 handed swordsmen have improved
  .Overall a very good expansion but some stuff to iron out 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danevader
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 8, 2007 2:44 pm PT
Review:  Medieval II Total War Kingdoms was a game I have been waiting for since around April and when I 
 finally got the game and finished with the tedious installing it was one of the best game I have 
 played to date.
  
  One problem with Total War Kingdoms is that even before you play the game there is a lot of tedious 
 installation and if you screw it up you will need a friend who is a real wiz at computers to help 
 you.
  
  Okay now that I covered the installation I will tell you about the game itself. This game by itself 
 will definitely create more than enough game-play to last me a lifetime which includes the four 
 new campaigns and all the other things that are included in the game which is moated castles, new 
 enemies, and tougher gameplay. As far as this game goes the Crusader Campaign is my favourite campaign 
 because I love the Crusades and the fact that you can use Hospitaller units. The greatest genius 
 of this campaign would have to be the Greek Fire. In my years of playing Total War game I have 
 never seen a weapon work as well as the Greek Fire has and I have proof of this. When I was playing 
 Kingdoms I used Greek Fire and brought a group of 120 soldiers down to 56 with one blast. As far 
 as the campaign itself it is very challenging and very fast paced and inludes the Mongol invasion 
 which is actually just as irritating as last time but a little bit easier to defeat this time around. 
 The Teutonic Campaign is also a good campaign which includes a lot of factors such as religion, 
 military might, and cash which has never been so incorpperated into any Total War Campaign. I haven't 
 tried the Brittannia Campaign or the Americas Campaign but I have tried a custom battle in the 
 Brittannia and the units are also very well thought out and made.
  
  I'm very happy to say that this Total War game will defitnitly appeal to any Total War fan no matter 
 if you play Medieval, Shogun, Rome, or Medieval II. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ele975
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 8, 2007 6:53 am PT
Review:  Good: 4 new Campaigns with alot of new factions. All greatly balanced, Alots of new units and play 
 Historical Hero's.
  
  Bad: A freeze bug that affects your computer, making it hard to get to your desktop, Restarting 
 may help but you will still have a hard time to get to your desktop. The Crusader Campaign you 
 HAVE to use horses or mostly concist of arches in your army.
  -----------------------------------------------------
  
  There are some good things i want 
 to say to this game. But there are also some bad things i want to say regarding the bugs of this 
 game. But i can say, is this is a great expansion pack, because you can play Historical Hero's 
 and do what they did in they're history time. All of the maps in this game are Big, Huge or MASSIVE. 
 Even the England campaign the map is still huge, so it will take alot of time conquring it, so 
 you can't make just 3 massive armies and thenn march right in and win. You will only loose and 
 have to restart over again. But on the other hand, you can start wars with some new factions (like 
 the Mayans and so on) Which makes it really cool. Altho the diplomat and other related system to 
 that ain't new (i may mix this one up) it's just the same.
  
  The bad stuff however, lies within the Crusader Campaign, in your army, you HAVE to consist mostly 
 of horses and arches. Or else you will lose, because everyone else in the map uses mostly arches 
 and horseback riding, so it because dull, boring and COMPLETELY unfair. The Big Bad Freeze Bug 
 also resides there. That's right, there is a Freeze bug in game, but you may be asking yourself 
 yea but, that rarely happens -_- not this one. This freeze bug ain't your common one, when it freezes 
 your game. This will happen when you turn of your computer
  
  Load time to come to the desktop takes forever and cannot be loaded (may happen several time) and 
 before that that load screen, the computer will ask you to insert your Boot Disk and press enter, 
 DON'T you will most likely have to turn of your computer MULTIBLE times before you can enter your 
 desktop, and if you should enter your desktop, it may freeze over right away. So buy at your own 
 risk, i have heard the peeps who makes the patches ain't gonna do something about it. It also shortens 
 the game time.
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  Overall: If you are lucky not to get the freeze bug, you may find this game really good and 
 a great expansion and will keep you busy for many weeks to come. So if it wasn't for the freeze 
 bug and the disappointment for the Crusader Campaign it would've gotten a higher. 8.5, but i really 
 loses score because of the Dull, Boring, Disappointment and the unfairness. Do i recommend this 
 game? Both yes and no, with the freeze bug in the game, you're playing the game of the Russian 
 Roulette. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thrac_Warrior
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 8, 2007 2:17 am PT
Review:  &pound;14.99 for 4 Campaigns each one which fulls like a stand-alone game is amazing value for 
 money. The Britannia Campaign is the one I'm playing currently as Ireland and it's plenty of fun. 
 The work gone into the Campaigns is brilliant, each one with unique rules, factions and units and 
 brilliant voicework. The Notable mention is the music which from me gets a A* It really sets the 
 atmosphere. The Creative Assembly put the effort in to make Kingdoms and it shows in the quality 
 of the game. The Heroes are a neat addition and you definately feel a little scared when the message 
 comes ''William Wallace Emerges'' The Battles are as Intense and Amazing as ever and with a good-spec 
 and modern PC The graphics can be set to highest and it's not just the battles itself you will 
 be shocked at. The Americas campaign is a blast if you decide to play as any of the europeans factions 
 or one of the american and south american tribes. The experience is Different. In my Opinion Kingdoms 
 is one of the greatest PC Expansions ever. The value for money and content is far beyond most other 
 expansions of the same price. The only 2 gripes are that nothing is added to the Grand MTW2 Campaign 
 and the Tedious and Lengthy installion process.
  
  If you own MTW2 You just have to purchase Kingdoms 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spaceong
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 7, 2007 1:44 am PT
Review:  A fantastic add on for total war. However some bugs in the video in crucades. others not tried 
 yet. will provide more info soon. The battlefield can be doubled, then the battles will really 
 be epic. more can be improved. For now, it is good. another thing since the last game, cant play 
 multiplayer, error, wrong code??? . The different campaigns helps you zoomed in the era for that 
 particular battles. Perhaps some on muskets can be around. such as napolean era... hmm...
  
  No happy with the multiplayer problem and the video error. During installation, some files errors, 
 hope that the developers can do something. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sexyfunkmaster
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 9, 2009 6:17 pm PT
Review:  When i first installed this game i thought it would be just like Medieval II Total War, but i was 
 mistaken. all 4 of the campaigns plays like its own game with its good and bad but the good is 
 massively out numbering the bad. Each campaign has its own unique upgade from the original that 
 makes it shine... For instence the britainia campaign has perminant forts and about 50 new settlements. 
 the Teutonic campaign has no family tree so dont be affraid of having no sons to rule after your 
 gone. and the Crusades has the heros and you can have king Baldwin from kingdom of heaven. and the 
 americas campaign has a bunch of indians and Cortes. this is 4 games in one box with almost complete 
 and total freedom over the war that you fight and the history and legacy you make. its a must buy 
 for any real rts fan and for totalwar fans, so rejoice, Kingdoms Is Now Here! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cd146
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 5, 2007 8:27 pm PT
Review:  Kingdoms is simply put, the greatest expansion ever released for any game, ever. Its absolutely 
 massive, its incredibly fun, and its improved upon Medieval II in every way possible. The music 
 is MUCH better, the unit variety is way more interesting, the AI is many times more intelligent 
 and fun to play with, and the amount of added content is just amazing, not to mention way less 
 buggy. 4 new campaigns allow you to jump into the fun like never before with an obscene amount 
 of new content; you'll be playing for hours and hours, and your interest will never wane. The gameplay 
 has been switched up quite a bit with all sorts of added catches and historical events that make 
 the campaigns all the more intriguing. I've spent around 15 hours on the Britannia campaign and 
 I feel as though I've just barely scratched the surface on just that one map; its difficult to 
 comprehend that this is just 1 of 4!
  
  Buy this expansion, do yourself a favor, you'll never spend a better 30 bucks. For half the price 
 of most video games, you can purchase over 10 times as much content found in any of those titles. 
 Creative Assembly really deserves some recognition for this expansion.
  
  (only con, Hotseat is a disappointment, I really want true multiplayer, over LAN at the least) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warfreak12
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 4, 2007 5:00 pm PT
Review:  For those of you who love the total war series this game is for you!!! For any of you who love 
 RTS games, this game is for you!!! If you love huge battles that you can play over and over again 
 and never get bored, this game is for you!!! ha ha.... well that my advertisement for you.... but 
 seriously this game is amazing.... four games in one expansion pack.... each game (teutonic, britannia, 
 americas, and crusade) is equally amazing. they all have their unique elements. you won't understand 
 how sweet this game is until you actually play it.... so go out and buy it for your own good cause 
 you don't know epic battles until you play this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yakaspat
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 6, 2007 8:48 pm PT
Review:  The Total War fan community, of which I have been an avid member now for years, was a little nervous 
 about the release of the Kingdoms Expansion pack so soon after the release of the original Medieval 
 II Total War (M2TW) game. As I said in my review for that game, the launch was a bit bumpy and 
 it took two patches before some key balancing issues were resolved. When Kingdoms was announced, 
 I bit my nails and hoped we wouldn't have a repeat.
  
  But, Creative Assembly really pulled out the stops with Kingdoms, blowing the fan community, and 
 the professional game magazines, away. And at the same time, the game developers released a "Retrofit 
 Mod", created and tested by the game studio, to update the original M2TW with the new and improved 
 game balance changes, too. I rejoiced.
  
  Kingdoms is really four games in one. The game comes with an entirely new and improved unit and 
 AI balance from the original (again the original can be updated with the official RetroMod) , four 
 brand new campaigns, over a hundred new game units (to add to the hundreds of the original!) , and 
 THIRTEEN new factions. With the 21 original factions, and 13 more, the replay value of this game 
 is limitless. Indeed, I'm staying up every night till 2am just to try them all out!
  
  The game AI is vastly improved, the visuals are jaw dropping, and the flavor and flare of "medieval" 
 plays out perfectly. Never before have I played a game this immersive and this fun, not to mention 
 challenging on the harder game settings. Medieval II Total War Kingdoms is a highly recommended 
 addition to any strategy gamers library and also a good pick for someone new to the series.
  
  Total War! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: P1zzaman
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 3, 2007 12:55 am PT
Review:  Well I was surprised to see that each of the four campaigns are very theme based. it almost feels 
 like it is a different game. Each campaign hosts new music, sound effects, art, and graphics to 
 imerse the player into the world.
  
  The maps are very specific, British Isle, Middle East and New World, but don't confuse that with 
 it being a small map. Each of the campaign map is a super zoomed version of the area and the size 
 of each is just as big as the original M2TW campaign map. So the british isle would have 50 provinces.
 
  
  The new reinforcement controls are a little simple and sometimes confusing. It is still mostly 
 A. I driven.
  
  I am really impressed with Creative Assembly in managing to put the player in totally different 
 worlds in one game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rein77
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 2, 2007 8:37 pm PT
Review:  Man, this has to be the best Total War yet and just makes MTW 2 that much better, I'am like the 
 other guy, it's just hard to pick which one to start and who to be and man is it fun and real guys 
 come into the mix, dude, I got my Lionheart and he is laying the smack down on candy ass out in 
 the dusty lands. Me, the lion and his Templars are waxing candy ass and I love it! This game get's 
 a 10 all the way. There are just so many games that could have been sold as one each but they put 
 them all in one and at a damn good price. I love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brodoin15
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 2, 2007 7:24 pm PT
Review:  It's fun, as aways, but, as much as I'd hate to say it, the battles get old. Don't get me wrong 
 I love to see my horsemen cutting down routing enemy, but they always die on their front or back. 
 In Rome they died in other ways. I'll play this 'till I beat it but I cannot wait for Empire: Total 
 War. I read that it'll have sea battles, new units, and even rag-doll effects. I know rag-dolls 
 are old but just think, thousands of men all dieing with rag-doll effects all different. And not 
 fading away like most games. Anyway, if you want to buy a good expansion pack this is one. It's 
 very good. I was gonna but it if it sucked or not anyway. And as you can see most people love it. 
 Ps. I went to buy it at Target and they were sold out. And I say this because you know a game's 
 good if it's sold out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reliantk81
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 2, 2007 4:22 pm PT
Review:  When I heard the expansion came out to medieval 2 I rushed out to buy it and just hoped I would 
 love it as much as the core game. I knew that creative assembly's version of an expansion pack 
 is making mini new versions of the game and that's exactly what you get with this. However you 
 get 4 smaller campaigns. they include new world, Teutonic in the Baltic regions, Britannia, and 
 the crusades. Each is a smaller focused campaign with 5-8 factions in each map. However instead 
 of making them all in one executable each campaign has a separate launch .exe file. this makes 
 it so you are unable to play specific factions in each campaign against each other in custom battles. 
 You can set period to all which allows you to use the old ones from the basic game in each campaign 
 during custom battles. So let's get down to pros and cons. Pros: Music, the music in this game 
 is breathe taking especially in each of the 4 grand campaigns. I could seriously just relax listening 
 to the music in the Britannia and Teutonic campaign. graphics are carried over from the core game 
 and they as always are gorgeous. The new factions are well thought out and designed. This pack 
 is good for people who want variety without playing a really long campaign. Cons: Buggy, it does 
 have a rushed feel to it. During the Britannia campaign my assassin movies stopped playing during 
 one load up I even made sure they were checked to play and they were. Also during custom battle 
 in Teutonic campaign I noticed the general speech before battles have been cut to 1-2 liners though 
 not a bug that was a little disappointing, however what was buggy is that my general was talking 
 about defeating the turban wearing foe when i was fighting the Danes in Sweden. When I played the 
 Americas campaign I was told I lost because one of the native tribes had reached the territory 
 goal and I lost. The territory goal is 20 cities when I sent a diplomat after I kept playing I 
 got the map info and they had 8 cities total hmmmm. Finally through in some misspellings in the 
 pop up messages and I guess its the sum of all the buggy things that made me feel dissatisfied. 
 Also it was disappointing to not be able to play factions from one campaign against ones from another 
 campaign like the Irish versus the Mayans. All in all its a good pack with some nice content for 
 those who some extra out of the game. If you can put up with the quirks I recommend you get this 
 expansion pack. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yzzycz
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 2, 2007 1:02 pm PT
Review:  I geting tired of battles in this game. Is always the same. I hope next serie of medieval is going 
 bring in some new game mechanic and more interesting fights. This is overused ..... Otherwise expansion 
 is good. Duno what more i have to write........ ..... ... ... ... .... ..... .... ...... ...... 
 .... ... ...... ... ....... .... ... ... .. ... .. ........ ........ ........... ...... ....... 
 .... .. ... .... ... .... .. ... .... .. ... ..... ... ... .... ... .. .... ..... ... .... .... 
 ........ ........ ......... .. ... ..... ... ..... ..... ... .... ....... .... ..... .... ..... 
 ... .... .. ... .... ... ..... ... boring again? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bringmemybow
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 2, 2007 11:55 am PT
Review:  Med 2 Total war is one of the greatest strategy war games available. If you are a fan of pc games, 
 i would advise this game, that is how all engrossing it truly is. However with the release of the 
 expansion pack came the news of Empires: Total War, the next in the series for CA. The expansion 
 pack was no revolution and although adding hours of extra gameplay and a must have for all owners 
 of the original, it lacks in certain areas and smells of quick release while the studio focuses 
 on the next big thing. Although each campaign is fun and challenging in its own way with different 
 units. It is a lot of the same on different maps. The new units are often exciting and colourful 
 however don't add too much more in the way of gameplay. My major criticism however for this game 
 stems completely from the lack of advancement to the Grand Campaign, the part of the game I still 
 enjoy the most. Where are the Moats and Oil, where is the advanced AI. Total war has an AI system 
 which once worked out is completely predictable often making repetitive though still fun game play. 
 The biggest disappointment for me however is the Lack of Hotseat for the Grand Campaign a major 
 buying point for me. I wish CA had spent more time working on modification and Expansion on what 
 they had rather than just adding layers over the top to distract you from any real improvement 
 on the Grand Campaign. Lets hope our Modders get working at a good solution! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Airforce9992
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 2, 2007 5:19 am PT
Review:  Game is great, I love their Rome Total War, and their last Medieval Game, But with the new Kingdoms 
 expansion, It has a bug which crashes the game if you try to go in battle : I've tried to take 
 this problem to total war forums but theirs No support at all, and all they have their helping 
 them is Volunteers (Must be cheap to have Customer Support VOLUNTEERS ) And they can't even help 
 much, Hopefully we will see a patch soon to fix this, But until then I would just stay away from 
 it until they fix it :)
  
  All in all I WOULD have to give the game a 10 If it was working, So I hope they fix this cause 
 I hate not being able to see the battle :P. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimlock
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 2, 2007 4:08 am PT
Review:  excellent follows on nicely, only problem is choosing what to play an who to be, and only 15pounds 
 k l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l 
 l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asilaydying4
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 1, 2007 6:27 pm PT
Review:  A great expansion to an already great game. All the new campaigns are interesting and fun. The 
 new features are executed welly. Only problem I have with it is the advice. IF YOU HAVE EVER PLAYED 
 A TOTAL WAR GAME DO NOT PUT THE ADVISE ON HIGH, IT IS EXTREMELY ANNOYING!!! But other than that 
 the game is great. I havent played a campaign to the end yet but so far all have been great. The 
 Britainia capaign mixes skill and knowledge, it took me two times to get started the way I wanted 
 because it can be hard, i was bankrupt in 15 turns playing as norway and i never recovered, and 
 the english are hard to even stay together in the first turn. The Crusades are fun but I fell kind 
 of let down about it because it keeps u interest for a long time and then just stops with updates 
 and nreinforcements and such, it was kind of boring, still fun, and after all, I HAVE NOT PLAYED 
 TO THE END. I have barely plaid the tuenick campaign so i cant tell u about that. The America's 
 capaign is just awesome, i took control of New Spain and killed the Aztecs and it has been great. 
 So yea thats my reveiw. If u have Medievel 2 U need this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gmoney5646
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 1, 2007 11:48 am PT
Review:  I am a huge fan of the total war series and its latest installment dosen't disappoint. The four 
 campaigns give the game some needed variety but the AI is still lacking, specifically in diplomacy. 
 The battles are similar to before but a slight improvement in enemy troop movement and formation. 
 I am in the process of the Americas campaign and it is designed very well. I have to say I'm a 
 little suprised with my fellow Native American tribes and their actions toward the old world invaders (Allies?!?!?!?!?!?!) . 
 The other campaigns seem promising as well. I am looking forward to the Britannia campaign. I am 
 thoroughly enjoying the game so far and it is only a slight improvement game play wise but it is 
 a refreshing expansion with great potential. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pmflood1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 1, 2007 9:16 am PT
Review:  First off, I downloaded this new expansion from direct2drive. I didn't know how large it was, i 
 guessed 2 or 3gigs, but I was way off. This expansion is huge! In its .zip state its over 7gigs! 
 So, while a pleasant surprise, I really wished I didnt buy it online. It took over 12 hours to 
 download! But the wait was worth it, and I can tell there have been much additions to the original 
 game! I just started playing only a few hours ago, but all the new details, new units, and new 
 campaigns that I have seen, surely will take hours upon hours to fully explore. For only 29.99, 
 it feels like an entire new game! My only recommendation is buy this one at the store! IT is one 
 huge expansion! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AKA-game
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 1, 2007 8:44 am PT
Review:  it must be the best total war game ever to be released! ! !
  it features 4 total new campains! the best 1 is the crusades that 1 is the best the game play is 
 much better! and there is about 150 new units with 13 new fractions.
  how ever there are a few problems... 1 is that u can not play a total campain - you can not conqour 
 the world. the map scale has increased x 4. therefore the game play becomes harder.
  
  Medieval II: Total War Kingdoms is an expansion to Medieval II: Total War and features three brand 
 new campaigns with thirteen new playable factions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrhuntern
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 30, 2007 1:45 pm PT
Review:  I have only played the first 2 campaigns so far American and brits. but so far it is like buying 
 2 separate MTW games. and im sure the other 2 campaigns that i have not played yet are just as 
 cool. tons of new units, abilities, maps, castles w/ moats around them. well just lots of new content. 
 if you ask me the only thing that i would have suggested for the developers to do is to put and 
 updated version of rome or shogun on here as one of the campaigns. but if you like the total war 
 series so far then this game is a good addition 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tycobbler
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 30, 2007 1:14 pm PT
Review:  Fantastic addition to an allready great game. In fact it's like 4 games, well 5 including Medieval 
 in one. The expansion offers a whole new look, and way to play out this game. It's like a SUPERMOD 
 dream version come true. If you're familiar with the series and have any doubt trust me, buy the 
 darn thing you'll be glad you did. If you're new to the series be forewarned, you'd better get 
 your thinking caps on straight cause you're in for a treat.
  
  A word of caution peeps. Compatability issue to pay attention to. Store bought version is compatable 
 with store bought version. Download version is compatable with download version. You CANNOT mix 
 the two. However you made your Medieval II Total War purchase is how you must make your Kingdoms 
 purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GregKenkel
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 30, 2007 5:23 am PT
Review:  This is an excellent expansion to an already great game. If you enjoy the total war games then 
 this one is for you. It give your four more ways to play the game. Being a Knights Templar I really 
 enjoy the option of being able to play the game from the Knights Templar point of view. This is 
 just one more of the total war games that proves how much fun this game is to play and enjoy. If 
 you have played Medieval Total War games in the past you'll be able to starting playing right away. 
 The original Medieval Total War game is needed because this is an expansion pack. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_Lykouleon
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 29, 2007 4:06 pm PT
Review:  Now before I go any further, I have a passionate love for the Crusades, so there might be some 
 historical bias for this.
  
  As you can expect from the Medieval II engine, the game looks and sounds wonderful, so I won't 
 expound to much on it.
  
  The meat of the expansions lies in its new features, including the middle eastern crusade campaign, 
 the English campaign, and the teutonic knight campaign.
  
  While this sounds sparse, the scenarios are deep, rich, and fulfilling. Very few things top massing 
 the army of Jerusalem to march to war. Also, with 110 new units, variety is truly the spice of 
 this expansion. My only complaint is that the game doesn't introduce any really new unique mechanics, 
 and although the new units are wonderful, they play like any other unit. Also, and this has always 
 been a flaw with Total War, the AI is spotty at best, and when you're defending against a siege, 
 you usually need to goad them into attacking. Aside from this standing flaw with the game, its 
 great.
  
  Not much really to say, its more of what I personally enjoy. But if you liked Medieval II, there 
 is no reason for you to not also buy this. A worthy addition and another excellent expansion from 
 Creative Assembly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: enigmafirst
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 30, 2007 10:55 am PT
Review:  Very awesome game much better than the first one although Total War for many reasons has replay 
 potential. Another awesome game made for the PC. I would highly recommend any middle age fanatic 
 to get there hands on it. Can't really compare it to World of Warcraft but it's a great game and 
 kinda sits on a scale of it's own. After I'm tired I'm going to look into the trainers when they 
 become available. For me personally it juices up the excitement for me again. Kinda like playing 
 the game for the first time. If I were to make any changes on this game it might be an addition. 
 Maybe add magic but then that would take the realism away from it. I believe the campaigns are 
 somewhat based on the actuall stories.
  
  The cheats from Total War work on this one also. See Below
  
  Console codes Press the tilde 
 (~) key and enter these codes to use them. All codes are case sensitive. Make sure to capitalize 
 family member names, settlement names, and anything else that needs capitalizing or else it will 
 not work. Cheat Effect toggle_fow Toggles on or off the fog of war. You can see the whole world 
 map when inputted. auto_win attacker/defender When at the battle scroll, input this code in, attacker 
 if attacking, defender if defending and press auto retaliate button. Automatically wins. add_money 
 amount Gives you the specific amount of gold. process_cq settlement name Anything in the city's 
 building queue will be built automatically. give_trait this trait level number Allows you to give 
 any trait your faction can have to a specific general. add_population settlement name amount Allows 
 you to give a city more population automatically. move_character z x, y z=name of settlement or 
 unit without title (except Captain) . x, y=coords show_cursorstat Shows coordinates under mousecursor 
 in format x, y character_reset Allows a character to move again. Does not always work Create a Unit 
 Use the console to enter the following
  create_unit settlement or character unit ID amount (1-5) experience (1-9) armor (1-3) weapon (1-3) 
 
  
  Example -
  
  creat_unit London Longbowmen 2 9 3 3
  
  ^The above code will create 2 units of Longbowmen in London with 3 Gold Chevrons, Level 3 armor 
 and Level 3 weapon Cheat Effect create_unit settlement or character unit ID amount (1-5) experience 
 (1-9) armor (1-3) weapon (1-3) Creates Unit at any settlement/general you like Adding Units to 
 Stacks Just pick a city or any unit as if moving it and just open console and simple type george 
 or any of those on this list and hit enter to get the following units Cheat Effect george Mercenary 
 Monster Ribault houston Mercenary Rocket Launcher istanbul Mercenary Monster Bombard madras Elephants 
 rogan Elephant Artillery vindaloo Elephant Rocketeer 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
