-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Men of Valor
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/menofvalorvietnam/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 28, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.9
Critic Score: 7.2, 26 Review (s)
User Score: 7.5, 667 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: VU Games
Developer: 2015
Genre: Historic First-Person...
Date:     Oct 29, 2004
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Men of Valor is a first-person shooter set in the Vietnam War. And it's good! 

  Whaddya know? After the battle to maintain a favorable public opinion of the Vietnam War was lost 
 in the States, after the US lost the war itself to the Vietcong and the North Vietnamese, and after 
 a number of developers lost to whatever mysterious force stood between them and making a decent 
 game set in the war, somebody has finally licked the Vietnam curse. Men of Valor is a first-person 
 shooter set in the Vietnam War. And it's good! Those of you keeping score at home through the recent, 
 seemingly unending torrent of disappointing Vietnam War games can dust off the unused "win" column, 
 take the pencil out from behind your ear, and write "1, USA."  

          Impressive pyrotechnics.     

  Now the inevitable bad news: Men of Valor is solidly 
 good without quite crossing over into great. It's an odd combination of high polish and rough edges. 
 Take, for instance, the visuals. The environments look great: From jungles to beaches to both intact 
 and destroyed urban areas, the levels are packed with detailed textures, ambient life, and believably 
 cluttered landscapes. There's also some really nice effects work, such as explosions accompanied 
 by a disorienting motion blur and a cool shimmering corona effect that surrounds open flames. But 
 then there are the character animations, which look like somebody forgot to finish them. Characters 
 have a tendency to pop from one pose to another without any kind of intermediate transition. They 
 also often appear to glide across the ground without moving their legs, and some of the animations 
 are just bizarre -- a few of your squad members appear to be experiencing seizures when they're just 
 supposed to be breathing hard.  

  Men of Valor was developed by 2015, the team responsible for Medal of Honor Allied Assault. That 
 game helped pioneer the heavily scripted, shooting-gallery style of gameplay that has become a 
 staple of the shooter genre, and Men of Valor doesn't stray too far from the formula. Along with 
 the "advance from point A to point B" levels, there are some defensive missions and some on-rails 
 events in both boats and choppers. Typical of the genre, the game is half shooter, half acting 
 exercise, in which you have to hit a series of marks as you advance through impressive but highly 
 choreographed mayhem. Unfortunately, the scripting that drives everything forward is sometimes 
 screwy and brittle. For instance, one particular level takes place in a maze of VC tunnels and 
 ends with a cutscene. If you're not standing in the right place when the scene starts, you'll be 
 killed by an explosion that occurs as the scene ends. What's worse is that until you finally, accidentally 
 stand in the right place, it's not entirely clear what's killing you, which means you may have 
 to replay the level from scratch a few times.  

  That stinks, but for the most part Men of Valor does a good job of subtly nudging you through the 
 chaos. Between the punchy sound effects, your screaming comrades, and the mixture of friendly and 
 enemy troops both near to you and engaged in half-glimpsed activities on the periphery of your 
 vision, the game really nails the living battlefield atmosphere it strives to create. When it's 
 firing on all cylinders, which is -- unscientifically -- more than half the time, it's as good as the 
 genre gets. The enemy artificial intelligence may not be spectacular, but the density, confusion, 
 and frantic pace of many of the firefights guarantee that you'll be worried less about why that 
 VC didn't utilize proper cover and more about keeping your head behind that rock so it doesn't 
 get blown off.  

  Men of Valor is a challenging game, and it's made tougher by an occasionally aggravating save system. 
 The game saves your progress permanently between levels, and some levels include one or two "soft" 
 restart spots that last only until you quit the game. Generally speaking, these save spots are 
 well placed, and the lack of a save-anywhere system adds some noticeable tension to the proceedings. 
 In more than a few cases, however, the length between checkpoints can be infuriating. Late in the 
 game, there's a tough battle that's preceded by a couple of minutes of pointless walking and two 
 uninterruptible cutscenes. You may find yourself navigating this uneventful preliminary section 
 over and over again, only to die within 20 seconds of the battle starting.  

          Hunting some of the ambient life.     

  The single-player campaign lasts a good 15 
 hours (or more, depending on how many times you need to restart various levels) . Unfortunately, 
 the PC version doesn't include the Xbox's option for cooperative play through the single-player 
 campaign. It does, however, make a few multiplayer enhancements to the Xbox version, such as support 
 for twice as many players, twice as many maps, and an extra gameplay mode. Multiplayer features 
 six different game types for up to 24 players. These include standard deathmatch and team deathmatch 
 and two capture-the-flag variants. There's also a "mission" mode that generally requires one team 
 to defend some object while the other team attempts to destroy it, and "Frontline," which is a 
 capture-and-hold game that's included only in the PC version. The PC's dozen-or-so maps (a few 
 extra ones are available for deathmatch only) offer a nice variety of both jungle and urban settings. 
 The multiplayer game isn't groundbreaking, but it's solid enough to be entertaining for a while. 
 Without vehicles or the epic scope of recent multiplayer-focused titles such as Joint Operations, 
 though, Men of Valor's multiplayer feels like more of an afterthought than a fully formed game. 

  Unlike most recent Vietnam War-themed games -- and unlike most Vietnam War-themed anything, for that 
 matter -- Men of Valor sort of recasts the war as a misunderstood WWII-style conflict without much 
 moral ambiguity. The developers haven't completely abandoned their civic duty, though, since the 
 main character is an African-American grunt, which leads to some earnest lessons about racism in 
 between the shooting. Luckily, the shooting wins out over the moralizing and helps make Men of 
 Valor one of the few games to successfully tackle the Vietnam War.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (34 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Perth2008
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 12, 2009 12:07 am PT
Review:  "Dear Mr and Mrs Roland Shepard ... it is my sad duty to inform you that your son died while ..."
 
  
  Well, I wish I had a dollar for everytime I've listened to that message (in its various guises) 
 while playing MOV. I have just finished playing the game ... the very last part of the last mission 
 had me pulling my hair out and yelling obscenities at the screen ... why does it have to be so 
 hard! But strangely enough I love this game! Maybe that's the point ... it isn't easy to survive 
 on a modern battlefield.
  
  No quick saves are available so you need to play through to the next "transition" stage within 
 a mission ... sometimes these stages seem very far apart (in time terms) as you try to stealthily 
 advance through the jungle to the next ambush/firefight while avoiding nasty booby traps. So if 
 you are easily frustrated then this is probably not a good game for you ... I however enjoy perservering 
 to get to the next mission, as I'm sure most do. But as noted above I did get extremely frustrated 
 on the very last mission ... I confess I used the "god" cheat to get through it ... it's the first 
 time I've used a cheat in any PC game but I has getting too worked up ... based on the "god- mode" 
 play through it's damned (perhaps unreasonabaly) hard. Perhaps I'll give it a go in a few weeks 
 just to say I did it myself, without the "Rambo-like" cheat.
  
  The enemy AI (that is the VC and NVA) is reasonably good but as with all offline games it can be 
 a bit hit or miss at times. While enemy AI is generally OK, your squadmates often take all the 
 good cover or just get in the road when trying to move and/or shoot ... oh well.
  
  My understanding is that this is one of the best (and most underappreciated) Vietnam games ... 
 the others I own are "Battlefield Vietnam Redux (BfV) " which is somewhat generic hold/capture flag/spawn 
 points game that could be set in any conflict from WWII onwards (although I must confess I do like 
 the Battlefield 2 "Eve of Destruction" MOD which somehow feels better than vanilla BfV) and Conflict: 
 Vietnam - yet to be played. 
  
  Anyway MOV plays well and the music, letters between your alter ego and his family and cut scenes 
 really do make you "feel" like you are in a Vietnam movie. There's even a riverboat trip up river 
 to a well lit bridge ... just like the Doh Long bridge up the Nung River in "Apocalypse Now" ... 
 albeit its pretty tame compared to Coppola's vision. Feel is more in tune with "Platoon", "We Were 
 Soldiers" or "Hamburger Hill" than AN or Rambo (fortunately) ... I can only compare to Vietnam 
 movies as I wasn't there and I suspect nor were the designers so their influence must be such movies.
 
  
  Similar to "MOH: Pacific Assault" which I am playing simultaneously you do get a feeling of being 
 hemmed in by the jungle environment ... trees keep getting in the way, although they provide reasonable 
 cover. Occasionally the playable area shrinks like a funnel, constricting movement, due to thick 
 jungle on either flank and the VC appear from nowhere ... just remember to hit the dirt! Also there 
 "choke points" are usually where the VC have their nasty little wire triggered traps ... so watch 
 out! All very mood setting ... hence my comment about the inability to save ... it's no fun to 
 start all over again when you have done 80% of the "walk in the green" to the next transition point.
 
  
  For the truly claustrophobic the journey through the VC tunnel complex in the middle of Operation 
 Starlight is highly recommended ... not! The tension builds with atmospheric music, poorly lit 
 surrounds and maze like nature of the tunnel system. Also the odd scurrying rat darts across as 
 the music reaches its climax ... just like that damned cat in the movie Alien.
  
  I PREVIOUSLY WROTE: I should note that there is still a reasonably active (say up to 10 players 
 at a time) online multiplayer presence and the games are mainly DM, TDM and capture the flag type 
 games (terms that I have recently learned as I prefer offline single player games) . You also get 
 to play the VC and NVA which you cannot in singleplayer / offline.
  
  I NOW WRITE: AVOID playing MOV online (unless you have excellent anti-virus/trojan protection) 
 ... I believe my PC was hacked when playing this game online at a server called "Necro..." or similar. 
 I ended up with the "Chinese advertising" virus/trojan ... Google: "taskmagr. exe chinese" to see 
 what I mean. I had to have my hard disk reformatted just in case the chinese music was not the 
 only side effect of the virus (I also noticed my 4 CPUs running at 100% and IE running when I wasn't 
 using it) . I have now sworn off playing games online! NOT happy.
  
  Despite the bad experience from online play MOV remains in my opinion a VERY GOOD game ... just 
 avoid playing online.
  
  The difficulty of the game is perhaps part of its appeal ... certainly in most missions you do 
 get a sporting chance, but at times the enemy seems to hold all the good cards! I'm in two minds 
 about the lack of quick saves ... I didn't feel I really needed them until towards the end of the 
 game ... where even the in-game "Saving Progress" transition points were few and far between. Also 
 in many ways COD and MOH allow perhaps too much latitude to "get it right" with its limitless saving 
 system. I also think that playing the game from the perspective of a negro soldier adds quite a 
 dimension to the feel of this game.
  
  As a final note I recommend reading the Walkthrough by "antseezee" here at GameSpot ... it's for 
 the Xbox version but it provides sufficient useful tips on how to proceed when an "awkward situation" 
 arises and you've tried everything else you can think of to progress. Please note there a few more/different 
 missions in the PC game than in the Xbox, including "Recapture the Citadel", set in Hue, which 
 takes place before the final return trip to Khe Sahn and includes another of those flamethrowing 
 PT-76s before the final stage of raising the South Vietnamese Flag over the citadel (occuring between 
 4.12 and 4.13 of antseezee's walkthrough) .
  
  In my view the hardest sections of this hard game are the Khe Sahn - Hill Fights (see first half 
 of 4.8 of "antseezee") and the closing sequence of rescuing Jamie (see 4.13) .
  
  OVERALL Highly Recommended ... MOV is still available from Budget Games Sweden: http://stores. ebay. com. au/Budget-Games-Sweden 
 from whom I have bought a lot of games without any hassles ... and at lower prices than local retailers 
 in Perth, Australia, including postage from Sweden. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ricwhite
Rating: 2
Date: Mar 1, 2008 10:35 pm PT
Review:  Wow. Paid about $8 for this and even that small amount wasn't worth it. Out of the 80 or so FPS 
 games I've played, Men of Valor is one of the worst. I have to go way back to IGI2 before I find 
 a game this bad. 
  
  First the good. The music is fine. 
  
  Now the bad.
  
  Graphics: When I first popped this in my rig, I thought I had a defective disc. The graphics were 
 awful. I went to the video options and turned everything up to maximum. No difference. I thought 
 I went back to the late 1990s. It reminded me of the first Turok game. I was stunned that this 
 was a 2004 effort. 
  
  Character models are laughably bad and wooden and they GLIDE across the ground as if the whole 
 environment is made out of ice. It reminded me of my little plastic soldiers I used to play with 
 when I was a child. I just pushed them across the ground. 
  
  Story and Characters: The Vietnam story is compelling and the various cut scenes with footage which 
 gives a mini-history lesson on the war is okay. But the actual missions in the game are forgetful. 
 The effort to try to connect with Shepherd, the main character, via letters home really doesn't 
 work. In fact, I usually cut those off because they became boring very quickly.
  
  Movement: Moving is really awful. You get stuck on just about everything - rocks, logs, limbs, 
 boxes, bodies. Nothing is moveable. Every level is narrowly encased in an invisible barrier. You 
 think you can take a path to flank hostiles only to bump into an invisible wall which blocks that 
 path. Only one narrow and lineal pre-determined path is allowed and scripted. You can't jump. Even 
 the smallest of logs you're locked behind. This is one of the poorest games I've played for trying 
 to traverse the terrain. 
  
  Gameplay: Awful. This is really bad, folks. The whole game is about 12-14 hours. However, at least 
 HALF of that time is replaying the same thing over and over. Save points are far apart and, often, 
 you will tediously and slowly make your way up a path or river, systematically eliminating the 
 hostiles along the way, only to find yourself ambushed (which, by the way, is scripted in there 
 toward the end of every objective) and you die (very quickly) . When you respawn, you're ALL THE 
 WAY back at the beginning of the objective -- which sometimes were as far back as 20 minutes of 
 gameplay. If you try to go any faster the second try, you'll die, so you have to go slowly and 
 systematically through the same routine all over again. When you get at the hard section, you at 
 least know what to expect and you can plan for a counter-attack. Sometimes, however, you're not 
 successful on the second try and back you go for another 15 minutes re-do. It became OLD very quickly. 
 I think the worst one took me about six tries to finally make it though at about 10 minutes per 
 try. So, it took over an hour of playing to work my way through a 10 minute section. 
  
  Having a challenging objective is one thing. But to have a boring tedious re-doing of 20 minutes 
 of work over and over with objective after objective is absolutely ridiculous. The result was a 
 game that just wasn't fun. In fact it was painfully frustrating and boring. I think the developers 
 wanted to make a game that evoked the "reality" of the Vietnam War. But the result was a game that 
 wasn't fun to play. 
  
  Overall: 2 out of 10. Men of Valor makes my top 5 worst FPS games of all time 
::::::

::::::
UserName: panzer75
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 5, 2007 12:11 am PT
Review:  I was very surprised when I started to play MoV, I thought it will be some unsuccessful try to 
 copy Vietcong. But it was not! Of course, it is different, but it offers amazingly good gameplay. 
 Game becomes challenging on some missions even on easiest level. Graphics is beautiful, only characters 
 motion could be better. Explosions are breath-taking. You shouldn't have problems with ammo even 
 it is spent very quickly. That's because you can search enemy dead bodies for ammo, weapons and 
 canteen (health) .
  It has several annoying bugs, but most of them are fixed with latest patch.
  If you liked Vietcong 
 - you will like this also. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: devilreyes
Rating: 2.6
Date: Jul 28, 2007 7:59 pm PT
Review:  Vivenedi Universal must've had pictures of Erik Wolpaw (the reviewer) with a goat or something... 
 it's a shame to see one of the guys behind the Old Man Murray site give a pass to big game company 
 for releasing an obvious beta version of a game as a finished product. To say that Men of Valor 
 has some rough edges is a gross understatement. Sure, the environments have a lot going on but 
 they look awful compared to Far Cry which came out seven months before Men of Valor. Add in the 
 fact that the texures are bland and completely flat, character animation is a pathetic joke (everything 
 that the GS review glossed over and then some) , and scripting is broken to the point that entire 
 levels must be randomly replayed... does this sound like a few minor bugs that keep a good game 
 from become great ? Hell no! They're the type of show-stopping bugs that keep a crappy game from 
 staying on my hard drive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kristjanp07
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 22, 2007 5:09 am PT
Review:  the game itself is ok, but there are a few glitches. Example: smoke from fires are the color that 
 i am pointing my cross air at. I dont know if its a cd prob. but it still sucks. Also it gets boring 
 pretty quick. The missions are ok but some times when playing i just get so annoyed by so many 
 things that i feel like throwing the computer out da window. The most annoying thing is that whether 
 crawl or duck for cover you still get killed by sum ghost vietcong in the forest that you cant 
 shoot yourself, and the saving system sucks. So if ya die then yer lucky if ur gonna have to start 
 all over again from the (LAST) mission. Anyway (NOT WORTH 8  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fleetlordavtar
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 2, 2007 7:06 am PT
Review:  PROS:1. @ 1280x1024 w/ highest settings the graphics are gorgeous!!
  sound, dialogue 2. Atmosphere... much better than vietcong!
  
  3. much more personal than vietcong, 
 nice touch w/ letters between parents and others.
  
  
  
  CONS:1. sometimes the AI... my guys or the enemy will run past the other and not shoot themselves, 
 but enemy will shoot me!!
  
  2. CAN'T JUMP ever... laughable for a war game, oh and you can't go prone in shallow water?? 3. 
 Jerks (my squad) will sometimes get right in front of me when i'm shooting cutting me off and letting 
 the enemy kill me... many FPS have this fault.
  
  4. overall not as fun as vietcong, but more of a realistic challenge. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JOE714
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 20, 2006 1:41 pm PT
Review:  In my mind, the most difficult obstacle game developers faced even just a few years ago in creating 
 a good Vietnam-based game was the relative lack of power in the technology available. Almost everyone 
 knows Vietnam for its jungles, where a soldier can unwittingly walk right up on a wild carnivore 
 or pajama-clad assassin to within an arms reach. Early game engines just couldnt render such 
 thick and jumbled foliage properly, leading to a blinding mess like NAM or sparsely-detailed corridor 
 crawls like ValuSofts Elite Forces titles from a few years back. Better to stick to locations 
 that keep the player indoors or underground, venues that simply dont epitomize the relatively 
 unique jungle-trotting experience of The Nam.
  
  Then the evolution of the Unreal, CryENGINE, Source, and similar game assemblers pushed the horizon 
 to the edge of a players virtual vision, while at the same time allowing for a fetishistic level 
 of detail in every imaginable type of terrain. Developers could offer players a bona fide run through 
 the jungle instead of just another hedge maze painted up with green and brown textures. The average 
 PCs capabilities were finally more of a match for the tactical challenges and emotional tribulations 
 that were already present in the story of Vietnam.
  
  Men of Valor certainly uses the Unreal engines strength in rendering space and depth to create 
 some genuinely impressive environments, where every boulder, tree, and crater is usable as a lifesaving 
 source of cover. I thoroughly enjoyed every natural setting in the game  from the fluidly flowing 
 rivers to the blasted, splintered forests left by high-altitude bombing  as well as the few human 
 dwellings in the city of Hue. Throw in some amazing particle and sound effects, and its easy to 
 get caught up in the Medal of Honor-style You Are There urgency for which the folks at 2015 were 
 aiming. The final foray and retreat through a major snafu in Khe Sahn during MoVs last levels 
 was especially enjoyable as the culmination of every positive element in the game.
  
  Im not a huge fan of using checkpoints as a means of saving progress, but the system used in MoV 
 made sense in that almost every level was neatly divided into specific encounters that required 
 more situational involvement than incremental advancement through quicksaves might allow. Still, 
 that understanding didnt stop me from yowling with frustration when I caught a bullet with mere 
 seconds remaining on the clock, which happened more than once just as I crossed the threshold of 
 the ruined church during the Eagle Flight scenario. As long as I kept my movements cautious and 
 covered, however, I was able to succeed at each semi-realistic skirmish with most of my flesh intact.
 
  
  The inclusion of useful computer-controlled teammates is another recent FPS development. AI friendlies 
 have come a long way since the cannon fodder of Half-Lifes Barneys or the horrendous babysitting 
 duties found in Daikatana. Smooth, Greaser, Hodges, and the rest of the MoV gang managed to keep 
 out of my line of fire, for the most part, and often plugged a dangerous enemy at a very opportune 
 moment. The workaday banter during slow periods and excited exclamations exchanged over the roar 
 of gunfire was competently performed and, more importantly for the latter, nicely varied; yet another 
 welcome evolution in modern shooters has the developers recording more than just two repeating 
 lines of dialogue for battle taunts.
  
  I agree with anyone who feels that the character animation in MoV was somewhat lacking, as I witnessed 
 a number of absurd behavioral tics that seemed more reminiscent of a budget title than such an 
 otherwise well-produced game. However, I never experienced any problems with MoVs combat mechanics. 
 Even though the groups of opposing VC seemed to favor me as a target more than my allies  particularly 
 during the very final sequence, a dash for safety made with limits on my maneuverability and means 
 of self-defense -- I completely understood that victory was mine alone to achieve, so hiding out 
 while my squadmates paved a path through every area was deliberately omitted from the MoV playbook. 
 Once the day is won, Men of Valor leaves a lasting impression of a very challenging and panoramic 
 experience that I recommend for anyone who wants to see and feel the rigors of jungle warfare in 
 their most vivid representation to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nathanisthegod
Rating: 7.7
Date: Apr 20, 2006 2:56 pm PT
Review:  Okay, first off, I'll say this: This game requires more nerves than skill.... mainly because it'll 
 frustrate you from the moment you start it til you get the hang of it, and you will probably get 
 it in about a hour, hence the hour learning curve time. Now, on to the review! This game has alot 
 of good points as well as alot of bad ones.. the graphics are subpar on even the most jacked up 
 systems, I've tried it on a intel 1.8 with 128 Vram, and a 64-bit xp 3000+ with 2Gig of Vram.. choppy 
 and chunky.... good sound though, I must say.. ambient sounds of the lush surroundings and gunshots, 
 grenades, heli-strikes, etc. The Models look incredibly sharp for such half-butted environments.. makes 
 you wonder what portion of the game the developers were on when they realized how dinky their paychecks 
 were gonna be. The story starts with your character playing football with the guys when a strike 
 comes along and whollops some place in the near distance, again, I give credit to the sound it 
 is amazing. This is to be a short first-review for me so here goes: The graphics are subpar on 
 any system, the models are sharp on high-end to medium-end systems, multiplayer isn't worth it's 
 salt with spawn-killers and only one known, used server (though if you have a strong cable WIRED 
 not wireless internet connection you can EASILY run a server off a little 166 or any pc) the story 
 line is liner without any variety of missions most missions are tricky they barely give you direction 
 of what the heck you're supposed to do and where to go and if you go too far out of range you fail 
 mission.. weird. Sound is incredible on any standard system with even standard speaker setup, installation 
 is a pain in the wazoo with a 5-disc install setup and the keycode is printed small as heck on 
 the sleeve of the first disc and they don't even tell you I had to root for it.. but I got my copy 
 for 5 bucks and if you can keep it under 10 bucks you get yourself a okay game that has a semi-long 
 storyline (as of print of this review i haven't finished it so I cannot make any judgements of 
 the story except that it's liner ) with standable graphics and great sound and splended entertainment 
 through and through dispite the bad points.. PS the ammo cheat GS has is wrong, the cheat say's 
 "note the space.... the space is wrong there is no space the cheat works without the space and not 
 with.. THEY NEED TO PUT A EDIT CHEAT OPTION ON THE REVIEW PAGES FOR GAMES) Have fun! -=Canablis=- 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pehota
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 7, 2006 2:42 pm PT
Review:  I realy like this game, cause it actualy based on historical events and detaily shows up how hard 
 it was in Vietnam for US soldiers.
  
  Game is well made, and you can find a lot of vivid moments, and hot action during the gameplay. 
 Graphics is pretty good, however it takes a lot of Virual memory from you video card, so u better 
 have a good card. Jungles sometimes can be laggy, but u should not be worry if u have at least 
 256 MB NVIDIA GE FORCE 5500 fx... card.... . Enemy bots are smart enough to kill u very fast, so 
 u better have some skills in actions games. 
  
  One turn off. Campaign is very short, i mean missions is good but they short. In general u will 
 have about 20 missions, which are small. 
  
  Weapons are pretty good.. strating Tomson gun and finishing up RPGs.
  
  Also, there are a lot 
 short movies about Vietnam war so people who like that history **** going to love this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rs0411
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 4, 2006 5:54 am PT
Review:  i have been looking for a decent Nam games for a long time now and i have found it, The campaign 
 missions have great battle scenes and like medal of honor it also shows real life footige of the 
 war and teachers you a thing or two about it, it is very hard but by either trying more or using 
 the god mode cheat you will get enjoyment, im already on operation 2 and the game only came yesterday, however 
 i feel that some of the acting scenes are so good that they are also very chessie but thats not 
 a problem. Now the multiplayer, before you download a 1.3 patch make sure its your right country 
 otherwise i heared it mucks up the game but i installed my uk one and now multiplayer runs smoothly, there 
 are never alot of online battles going on and you only have a short selection (unlike halo pc online 
 where there is litrally thousands) but it is still fun however because you can pick your class 
 and everything there are alot of people that camp ontop of a house and just fire rockets at you 
 which can be annoying, if you are buying this game just for the online part dont bother, i would 
 recomend halo for the pc because there is always so much going on there. Anyway i hope my review 
 has helped you and good luck with the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Andydickinson02
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 20, 2006 5:56 am PT
Review:  Personally i think that the Vietnam war is the most interesting, and i think that men of valor 
 really delivers. we have had good vietnam war games in the past such as Vietcong but this really 
 shows the wars true colours. first off the graphics are great for the pc version, it really makes 
 you feel like you are getting artillery getting dropped on your head. the napalm and fire effects 
 i think also look amazing. The gameplay i also find to be fun and gripping it makes you want to 
 play onwards to find out the plot of dean shepard and his buddies. The gameplay however can sometimes 
 be a little frustrating as the enemies keep on spawning if you don't advance fast enough, but this 
 is a minor flaw for the game. The AI is great sometimes to great.... they can make impossible shots 
 such as if you are prone and behind foliage they can still hit you but like i said these are minor 
 flaws.
  The sound i think is one of the best qualities of the game whether it be you men swearing down 
 the radio for assistance or napalm burning up the jungle. The value for money is better now then 
 it was when i bought it i got it second hand for 15 quid, but you can buy it brand new off amazon 
 or play. com for the same price. I really cant recommend this game more for Vietnam war game fans 
 and i think you would agree if you played the game your self. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joe_calzone
Rating: 7.9
Date: Feb 6, 2006 10:07 am PT
Review:  Despite being a console port with all the deriving defects, this game is quite engaging and fairly 
 done. Not top-notch, not perfect, but funny to play. IMHO it's a bit widely underrated.
  
  Sometimes the difficulty level seems not very well balanced and tends to raise towards hard. Despite 
 this, the game delivers a convincing war scenario and a good coopertaion mode with the computer 
 controlled team-mates. This makes the game quite immersive together with the very good characterization 
 of the protagonist and the other guys.
  
  To summarize: it was quite a surprise for a title I (and many others) never heard of. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gellis1981
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 4, 2006 4:48 pm PT
Review:  Simple the best Vietnam game out... If not, I would like to know what is? 2015 best work so far 
 and couldve been alot better if the developers offered map editor tools for users, some more MP 
 maps couldve been a helping hand for this game. Game play is great, expect for lack of support 
 by the developers with no new patches in 7 months. AI is so-so but for a FPS game, AI is acceptable. 
 I always thought the Xbox version was fun to play online. This game's life was cut way too short. 
 This game would've gone more mainstream if it wasn't a M rated game, but I love the fact that is 
 game was M rated. It's a war game, it should be M rated... GI number 1.. I love that... the music 
 is great, great music scores. Graphics isn't A++, but I'll give it a A- since it killed every other 
 Nam game out. With the lack of support, the value is mixed alittle... single-player is fun but MP 
 is sub par due to lack of tools and patches. My tilt is high since I like FPS especially war games, 
 but If your not a FPS fan your not missing too much. Truely a great FPS 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whiteknight1111
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 5, 2005 10:33 am PT
Review:  superb game, exellent graphics and brill visual effects and sound, a real great first person shooter 
 for those with average spec pcs, a real classic game based in vietnam and in my view the best yet. 
 A game where you cant let up for a minute as the aI are always apearing out of nowhere just when 
 you think the coast is clear, and the controls to the game are set out to perfection as you should 
 expect in a fps, sound effects quite stunning and overall men of valor is quite simply fantastic, 
 i rated men of valor a great 9 out of ten. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackie103
Rating: 1.1
Date: Oct 30, 2005 2:24 pm PT
Review:  Men of Valor developers need a hard case history lesson of the viet-nam
  era war. This gane is almost like it really was, except for the foul language,
  the enemy floats 
 like halloween trick or treaters in a 3D movie. The levels are ungodly hard even on easy. Even on 
 a high end gaming machine ones mouse freezes and unless one is standing, crawling to exactly the 
 right trip point in the game hes killed from unseen VC (probably the ghosts) . Then 
  without being able to save the game your sent back to the beginning of the level. Which is the 
 most stupid thing ever put into a otherwise bad game. The game developers must have developed this 
 game on a low end no name machine. Alien which in my opionion puts out the best gaming machine 
 out there, well this game cannot be played on a high end machine made for gaming. Marines run around 
 with no guns in there hands, boobie
  traps blow up long after one is past them, VC pop up from so called spider holes after one has past 
 by them for 5 or 6 clicks, leaving player with the thought hmmmm what was that? Get a grip developers 
 this game is not
  even close to the Call of Duty series which the best war game ever developed and worth every penny 
 anyone pays for it. If one gave me the Men of Valor game I would not waste my time installing it 
 on my PC.
  There is no nanana tech support what so ever. If there is its well hidden
  Gamers have a look at thier community support pages, I think there where 40 complaints and nothing 
 else. All the great smart gamers in the know will not buy or play this useless software. What a waste 
 of time guys. Its good for a movie type cut scenes which are the only true reality of this game. I 
 am a
  Viet-Nam grunt from the viet-nam era. You guys (the developers) need
  a real education in war history and after that you need to be educated into developing a pc game 
 fit for pc's or mac's. Men of Valor yukkkk and I am being nice! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smnsmnsmn2
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jul 14, 2005 3:44 am PT
Review:  After thoroughly exploiting World War II as a venue for action games, developers are now beginning 
 to look to the Vietnam War for inspiration. Now, from Vivendi Universal comes Men of Valor, a Vietnam 
 first-person shooter with a bit more of a personal tone and storyline. Developed by 2015, the team 
 responsible for Medal of Honor: Allied Assault, Men of Valor puts you into the shoes of Dean Shepard, 
 an African-American grunt from a small town thrown into the controversial war. The game thrusts 
 you into the thick of war as you complete missions while interacting with fellow soldiers, witnessing 
 the tragedy as some of them lose their lives in the process. The story is told not only through 
 the missions in the game, but also through the letters that Shepard writes home to his family in 
 between missions. The letters reveal his personality, hence giving you more of an attachment to 
 Shepard and his squadmates. 
  
  Having been developed by 2015, Men of Valor plays fairly alike to the Medal of Honor games. While 
 you will feel less like a one-man-army, the action still retains the similar cinematic presentation 
 from Allied Assault. Although your platoon does a decent job of handling themselves, it'll be up 
 to you to complete the various objectives, such as dropping a smoke grenade to signal an enemy 
 bunker, or to take out rocket crews. When injured, it will be necessary to stop and bandage yourself 
 up, lest you bleed to death and die. Unfortunately, Men of Valor, far from a perfect game, is hampered 
 by a few gameplay issues. Firstly, the A. I. isn't particularly bright, often making foolish mistakes. 
 On one occasion, I was able to walk right up to a Vietcong and shoot him in the face as he just 
 stood there, without registering my presence. Moreover, the N. V. A. is seldomly seen utilizing proper 
 cover - instead, they usually run at you screaming and shooting. The game also feels very scripted, 
 which was a downside of the Medal of Honor series.
  
  The environments in Men of Valor look great. For intance, the plant life in the jungles sway around 
 realistically in the wind. Additionally, the levels are cluttered with ambient life and detailed 
 textures. The special effects are pretty cool, ranging from the disorienting motion blur caused 
 by nearby explosions, to a shimmering corona effect that surrounds open flames. The weapons, which 
 are nicely detailed, all look realistic. On the contrary, the character animations are downright 
 sloppy. Furthermore, they often appear to be gliding across the ground without moving their legs. 
 All in all, the visuals do an adequate job of conveying the atmosphere during the war to the player, 
 despite some choppy framerates during heavy action.
  
  2015 succeeded in bringing the audio chaos of Vietnam to Men of Valor. The voice acting is extremely 
 well done, with a great range of emotions and a well-written script throughout. In addition, you'll 
 often hear curses shouted back and forth in the midst of battle. The gunfire, explosions and other 
 sound effects are also great, sounding crisp and clear in Dolby Digital 5.1 surround sound. Overall, 
 the sound of Men of Valor is very polished.
  
  Make no mistake - Men of Valor is a very challenging game, made even tougher by an aggravating 
 save system, due to the fact that the checkpoints are few and far between, as well as the lack 
 of a quick-save function. The single-player campaign lasts approximately 15 hours on the standard 
 difficulty setting, but can vary because of the checkpoint-save. Multiplayer features six different 
 game types for up to 24 players. These include standard deathmatch and team deathmatch, two capture-the-flag 
 variants, a "mission" mode, and "Frontline". Despite some minor flaws, a thoughtful storyline and 
 great shooting action propels Men of Valor into a solid game that certainly ranks amongst the best 
 the Vietnam war has to offer, but that alone isn't saying a whole lot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: taliancich
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 8, 2005 5:33 pm PT
Review:  Men of Valor is from the creators of the original Medal of Honor game, but this time the developers 
 attempt to tackle the early campaigns of the Vietnam War, and they do an excellent job. But the 
 overall difficulty of the game may dissuade people who liked Medal of Honor for its brisk pace 
 from tackling this war.
  
  In Men of Valor you play Dean Shepard a fresh young African-American Marine of whom we learn more 
 about from dictated letters to and from family in the States. The letters come after each level 
 and set the stage for the upcoming level. The letters, along with staged in-engine cut scenes before 
 and during most levels lend a sense of the cinematic representations of the war (like Platoon, 
 Apocalypse Now, and Full Metal Jacket) to the game, foul-mouthed buddies included.
  
  The environments are rich, detailed and diverse. The jungle grasses virtually obscure all movement 
 when crouched creating a sense that the enemy can appear from virtually anywhere (sometimes they 
 do, spawning directly from the sides of the map) . The village and city environments are convincing 
 as well, and are a welcome break from the dense foliage of most of the rest of the game. There 
 are even claustrophobic tunnel and trench levels. Overall the player gets a sense that these are 
 much like the actual Vietnam locales that the game creators purport them to be.
  
  The character animations, however, leave a bit to be desired. While certainly sufficient, they 
 did not seem to be on par graphically with the environments they inhabited. Their movements are 
 sometimes a bit clumsy and not very convincing.
  
  What is a representation of Vietnam without exploding napalm? There is something satisfying about 
 these massive explosions, and they are one of the graphical highlights of the game. Every time 
 napalm is dropped near Dean's squad the explosion rips across the screen from one side to another, 
 obliterating enemies and foliage alike. A shimmering heat wave obscures the senses for a few moments 
 and the player can practically feel the heat. In one of the games final levels mortar explosions 
 and gunfire tear through a system of trenches nonstop and one can appreciate the level of detail 
 the game's creators put into its pyrotechnics.
  
  The sound effects certainly do not detract from the overall game, but they are standard fare. It 
 might have been a bit more helpful in game play to have more directional sound effects. Finding 
 the enemy in the dense bush may have been a bit easier if you could tell where they were coming 
 from their verbal taunts.
  
  The game play is where it could be assumed that most players would find fault in the game. Those 
 who are used to run and gun shooters will have to change their tactics here. The game rewards those 
 who take each mission slowly, who use cover to their advantage, and who are willing to take the 
 time to aim carefully. On normal difficulty, the player who becomes exposed from cover for too 
 long will be dead before long. Those who take the fast approach will find themselves frustrated 
 when they are constantly gunned down, especially since the game saves only at certain checkpoints, 
 which may be spaced far apart. Repetition of the same trips through the jungle, cut scenes, and 
 frustrating battles, may lengthen an already long game into an interminable one. A player can mitigate 
 this, however, by taking a slow, cautious approach from the onset. Once this tact is taken, one 
 realizes how much more the game can be compared to what it must have taken to survive the real 
 war.
  
  The health system rewards those who are cautious as well. There are not a large number of health 
 kits scattered around. If there are some laying about they are in logical places, like huts or 
 command centers or on enemy soldiers. When the player is wounded the health will gradually deteriorate 
 to a certain point unless you stop and apply a bandage (by holding down a button) until the bleeding 
 is stopped and that health is regained. All told, health becomes a serious consideration and those 
 who are less gung-ho will find it less of a problem.
  
  When the game is complete, the player may feel like he survived a war. This could mean that the 
 player was fighting the difficulty of the game for so long that it's a miracle that it's finally 
 over, or it could be that the level of immersion is so well fostered by the overall story, tense 
 battle sequences, and realistic environments that the player comes to the realization that Men 
 of Valor is one of the best Vietnam single-player games to date. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Canadiancowboy2
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 6, 2005 6:06 am PT
Review:  I don't know why People think this is a bad game. I thought that this was a pretty fun game. The 
 Grafics are good and The gamplay is not bad at all. so go out there and get this game. The price 
 as already gone down so go to the store and pick up a copy. This is one of the few good Vietnam 
 First Person Shooters. The Muliplayer part of the game is fun you get several map in play in and 
 it pretty good. And you people who complain about dieing to much learn how to shoot. Besides it's 
 few flaws in all it's a very fun game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bfggriffey
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 1, 2005 12:07 am PT
Review:  i think this game is a blast if your into war games, i dont see how someone wouldnt like it. the 
 game is definitely more than long enough for me and the graphics are detailed and great. i think 
 the great water effects and detailed smooth faces and helmets and helis deserver more than a 7. 
 i didnt encounter any problems with anything while playing either. they didnt looklike they were 
 floating. the multiplayer is fun and addicting, and i hear the sound of nva insulting me, birds 
 and footsteps and all kinds of detailed noises. it took me atleast 15-20 hours to beat the game. 
 and i dont think the story couldve been done any better. i felt like i was there the whole time. 
 yhere are real locations you fight in and some interesting facts during the short loading periods. 
 the game does have a number of difficult parts, too. i think this game is very underappreciated 
 and i think 2015 did a damn good job making it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sniper
Rating: 2.5
Date: Aug 11, 2006 6:34 pm PT
Review:  Before it was released, I was really looking forward to Men of Valor. Finally, a decent Vietnam 
 War shooter -- not since Electronic Arts' ancient MS DOS-based SEAL Team (yes, I played it) has 
 a good 3D game set in that infamous southeast Asian conflict been published.
  
  That's why I'm so disappointed with Men of Valor, because it comes so close to filling this PC 
 gaming vacuum, yet fails so miserably. Men of Valor has fine graphics with lots of detail and realistic 
 scenery. It sports a nice variety of missions, a good spectrum of weapons, and even mature (if 
 hackneyed) dialogue.
  
  Yet none of that matters because the developer, 2015, apparently hates gamers with a passion. Why 
 else would they make Men of Valor impossibly difficult, even on the easy setting? Games are supposed 
 to be fun and relaxing, yet this one had me so frustrated, I was screaming at my computer.
  
  I made it about half-way through the single-player campaign, when I started a mission that 
 began in a jungle clearing, after exiting a tunnel complex. The enemy kept spawning and spawning 
 and spawning, and I kept dying and dying and dying. I tried hiding in the grass, using fixed heavy 
 machine guns, running from cover-to-cover, but nothing worked. It was as if the people at 2015 
 were mocking me, saying "Gotcha!"
  
  I tried downloading two different trainers, but neither worked, and both made the game crash. I 
 tried modifying my save game file with Windows' Notepad to give my character extra health, yet 
 this failed too. Just one simple God mode cheat code could have saved Men of Valor, but no cheat 
 codes exist. After wasting a week, stuck on this horrible level, after dying and reloading at least 
 100 times (no exaggeration) , there was nothing left for me to do except end this torture and uninstall 
 the game in utter disgust.
  
  I sincerely hope that 2015 goes out of business, because anyone who deliberately designs a game 
 to be impossible deserves to fail. This is the company famous for making Medal of Honor: Allied 
 Assault, but after recently replaying that game, I can only conclude they don't understand what 
 makes fun gameplay. Or they don't care. Other than the brilliant Normandy beach landing level (practically 
 plagiarized from the movie Saving Private Ryan) , Medal of Honor degenerated into another exercise 
 in frustration, getting worse level-after-level. At least it had a working God mode. Men of Valor 
 doesn't, so gamers should avoid this title like the plague. I certainly won't buy anything developed 
 by 2015 again.
  
  By Phill Parker 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Visi0naries
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 28, 2005 5:04 am PT
Review:  When it comes to good Vietnam War shooters, most people would probably answer with "Battlefield 
 Vietnam" or something along those lines. Vietnam shooters aren't all too popular, usually because 
 they are becoming overshadowed by World War II shooters, such as Medal of Honor, and Call of Duty. 
 But every now and then, Vietnam shooters are still being released, and one of them that fits in 
 is Men of Valor.
  
  Men of Valor is, well, obviously a Vietnam shooter, which is also obviously set in the era of the 
 Vietnam War. It's in the early stages of the Vietnam War, and it puts you in control of a young, 
 valor marine who goes by Dean Shepard. He's your average marine fellow who pretty much becomes 
 the hero throughout the game. Apparently, Men of Valor also has a story you must follow. Really, 
 some cutscenes and parts of the story were "borrowed" from famous war movies like "Full Metal Jacket", 
 which was actually a superb movie. Developers of Men of Valor, 2015, tried to add a bit of realism, 
 and some good useful ideas from movies to put part into their game. Sadly, pretty much everything 
 is wrong with Men of Valor, and the new ideas and suggestions don't make much of a difference when 
 it comes to rating the gameplay.
  
  First off, the really frustrating thing about Men of Valor, is it's horrific save system. Every 
 now and then, I'll be able to see the "saving progress" sentence as it pops up on my screen. Sure, 
 while it's saving, and if somehow I get killed or whatever, I'll start back here and continue on 
 my way once again. Of course it worked, but if I wanted to shut down the game and play it later, 
 I wouldn't go back to that last save point. I'll be back in the beginning of the chapter I was 
 at. This led to too many revisits among the same levels, doing the same things I didn't intend 
 to. It's really frustrating, and the game really sets your mind to finish up the chapter you're 
 on, and shut off the game when you moved onto the next chapter.
  
  Usually the cutscenes are sweet and short, but when there's too much of them in a single sitting 
 of play, that's when it really gets annoying. Even after watching it a second or third time, I 
 can't bypass them and move onto the real game. They're actually fun watching them the first time, 
 but afterwards they get too repetitive, and you're left unable to skip them. Although if you like 
 cutscenes a lot, or like watching cutscenes all too often, then you wouldn't really have a problem 
 anyways.
  
  The enemy A. I. isn't really all that amazing or outstanding. They do take cover behind trees, rocks, 
 houses, and whatnot, and they use simple tactics and strategies to get you killed, but that's about 
 all they can do. They're too easy to kill once you have them where you want, and somehow the enemies 
 have very obvious patterns that you can get used to in around a few playthroughs. You can actually 
 study the enemy a few times, and soon enough you'll get their ways and patterns, which really won't 
 add any fun to the gameplay.
  
  Men of Valor definitely won't keep you occupied for a while. The single-player is too much of a 
 chore to go through again and again, and it really gets too easy even if you do have the courage 
 to go through it again. The single-player is just too frustrating and very dull and boring, and 
 you still have it's flaws such as the save system within the game. It's just a simple game that'll 
 have you yawning not long after you start playing.
  
  Men of Valor, despite it's flaws with gameplay, does look good in terms of graphics. Character 
 models looked detailed, but they could of looked a lot better. Weapon models didn't surprise me 
 at all, as most of these weapons have been seen in other popular shooting games. Men of Valor surely 
 didn't make these weapon models more detailed than other games, but they are above average, at 
 best.
  
  The jungle terrain, trees, houses, vehicles, and anything like that looked well presented, but 
 some of these objects and items actually clip through other items, and even clip through you. It's 
 not a major annoyance or flaw, as it doesn't happen too often.
  
  Men of Valor's sound and audio is a bit of a disappointment. I was expecting much more effort in 
 the sound department, since most shooters have well-done sound. Character voices seemed somewhat 
 "unrealistic", and the voices felt dull, if they were acting as if they weren't really even in 
 the war. They do yell frantically and give out commands, but you can easily tell the actors done 
 a bad job trying to set the realism in the game with their voices.
  
  Weapon sounds sounded mediocre at best, and most weapons sounded like their real life counterparts, 
 but somehow toned down a bit. Everything else that had to do with sound such as helicopters and 
 airplanes also sounded good, but really they could of been more better if 2015 had put just a bit 
 more effort into it.
  
  Men of Valor really does have just a few good things going for it. Graphics are possibly the best 
 part about the game, as it does look pretty, but even the graphics, as the best part of the game, 
 has it's flaws. Clipping issues are found here and there, but they're not all that bad. What really 
 makes Men of Valor such a mediocre game is it's execrable save system. It's frustrating as it is, 
 and requires a lot more of your time to put in. It's a weird working save system, and it just doesn't 
 fit in at all with this type of game. Enemy A. I. isn't all too terrific, and the sound is quite 
 disappointing for a shooting game. Men of Valor comes off as a frustrating game to learn, and once 
 you actually get the hang of it, it'll become extremely boring afterwards. Men of Valor could have 
 been a lot more, but essentially it has too many flaws to be recommendable to almost anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scootman
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 22, 2005 10:22 pm PT
Review:  I am about 2/3 through this game for the first time. The game graphics are good. The controls are 
 typical, which is good. no need to learn new keys, etc. The realism seems to be good as far as 
 the historical time line. Note that I was not there. Hit shots (damage) are accurate as to where 
 the enemy or yourself are hit. The constant application of bandages is annoying, but acceptable. 
 The gameplay does require some thought tactically. This is not a rush in blow em away game. You 
 will die. 
  Annoyances:
  Re-spawning of enemies is unrelenting until a certain point is made.
  Lack of quick save results 
 in playing the same area over and over until sucess to the next level, or shutting the d_ _ _ thing 
 off. This is the most annoying aspect of the game. 
  Pedro
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RLJSlick
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 21, 2005 4:13 am PT
Review:  Yeap, another war game in the Vietnam theater, and yeap we are shooting anything and everything 
 that move, including villagers, kids, innocents. Unlike some of the rest, this is really well done, 
 the graphics are good, but you will need a lot of system to runs this on, and the sound is decent, 
 though I didnt hear it in 5.1 surround sound, which is too bad, because in the jungle, you dont 
 always know which direction they are coming from.
  Though there isnt anything mind blowing in the game, I do like that, for the first time, we seeing 
 the game in the eyes of a black combatant, that was something that really interested me. The game 
 also, along with a lot of blood, has a lot, and I do mean a lot of bad language. Made me feel like 
 what they had to be seeing and hearing during that most freighting of times, not sure where the 
 next round would come from. 
  The game also has some odd things about it, the moving around is a bit odd, if you are in a certain 
 position you cant move forward, or side to side, took a bit to get use to it. The one thing that 
 really bug me about this game, and why I didnt give it an awesome score, is, this game is very, 
 very hard! Be ready to die a lot! Way more then I would care to have to. On top of that, the save 
 when you get to a certain spot feature, really, really sucks, also be ready to play the same mission 
 over and over. For the most part, this is a decent game, with a high overhead, and a very sucky 
 save system. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DonJuanDH
Rating: 1.6
Date: Jan 7, 2005 5:59 pm PT
Review:  Everything seemed just fine, reasonable introduction and ghaphics, easy to play, but then everything 
 begins.... It hanged, in the first mission, the save system is "point save" so I had to make all 
 throught one more time, it hanged again, I downloaded the patch, guess what! Didnt work. I went 
 to the official VU forum, and guess again... a lot of guys with exactly the same problem.
  Support comment about this issue? NONE! 
  
  I keep thinking why a enterprise like VU Games 
 and 2015 do this kind of things, errors? ok, make something to correct it, but dont let down your 
 costumers like that!
  
  DO NOT BUY IT! You will regret, with sure! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdeaton
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 25, 2004 6:36 pm PT
Review:  Even in eazy mode, the game is furstrating. No save feature and no cheats. Great grapics, but you 
 get tired of repeating the same attack over and over. Easy and medium game modes don't seem to 
 be different. Then there is the death letter, over and over, just sucking up time even if you hit 
 the alt key, you still have to listen to the start. Had a lot of white grapics in the PC version 
 and I have a good grapics card. Even tryed lower quality and still the white grapics. Would not 
 buy this one again, at least now, until they get some of the bugs worked out and put in a save 
 feature so you can exit the game. Oh yes, that was another turn off. You can't quit the game or 
 you lose the automated save games and have to start over AGAIN!! Give me some cheats so I can at 
 least have some fun if I want to kick ass. Squad members have 2 lines each and they repeat and 
 repeat UGGGG! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spiny
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 11, 2004 6:51 am PT
Review:  I bought both Medal of Honor: Pacific Assault and this game. I played MOH first and was disappointing. 
 So I popped this game in, looking for something to pass the time until I get Halo 2, and I was 
 amazed. Lots of attention to detail, some innovation, and steller FPS gameplay make this game a 
 must-have for FPS fans.
  
  The game is pretty much a straight up shooter, using a straight up 3d engine. But what I was most 
 impressed with is the responsive feel of the character and the weapons. I was wowed right away 
 in the beginning training mission with the way the targets fell over when shot, the frag grenade 
 launcher and other little niceties. Unlike MOH, this game makes it enjoyable to sqeeze off rounds. 
 The controls are intuitive and simple. Moving from a crouch to prone to standing is a cinch and 
 doesn't interfere as much as the WWII shooters out there. One innovation in gameplay is that you 
 can lean right/left only when targeting enemies (by holding down the right mouse btn) . So A/D take 
 care of strafing and leaning. 
  
  But 2015 didn't stop there. They added little touches to make this fps stand out and earn a higher 
 score than gamespot's 7.9 such as the ability to press the space bar to search enemies for weapons 
 and ammo, the integrated "cut scenes" featuring napalm explosions and the like, blood clouds when 
 you hit an enemy, and even a great 60's-70's music soundtrack playing on radios in the game.
  
  You are treated to real photos and quotes during the loading screens whichs makes the game 
 more serious, along the lines of Call of Duty. Also, be prepared to watch your buddies step on 
 land mines and be skewered by booby traps set by Charlie.
  
  When killed you are forced to hit ALT twice to skip a reading of your KIA letter which gets tiresome 
 real fast. Also, for your quicksave freaks out there, there is no saving. The game autosaves at 
 certain points so be ready to replay parts over and over. I myself didn't find this as tedious 
 as in other shooters, which is a testament to how successful the gameplay is in this game. So disregard 
 what GS has said about this game and regard what I am saying: If you liked Full Metal Jacket and 
 play shooters, YOU MUST OWN THIS GAME. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamer_nathan19
Rating: 7.6
Date: Nov 9, 2004 11:36 pm PT
Review:  the rest of the game doesnt live up to the potential it has. The game gives you that "been there, 
 done that". Possibly even the feel of a Vietcong re-hash. The graphics seem a little bland for 
 the high system requirements, and kinda like that "vibrant-colours" look (everything looked dull 
 and lifeless) . 
  As I mentioned in the review deck though, the game does have a fairly solid storyline. The length 
 of the game is also fairly decent as well.
  In conclusion, you see that this game suffers from the fact that it was made for multi-platforms, 
 and doesnt live up to it's potential. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Harm
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 9, 2004 3:28 pm PT
Review:  I'll get to what is lacking in the game first. Overall the AI is the weakest point in the game. 
 Your squadmates, if you pay attention to them, seem to have intelligence only part of the time. 
 There will be times they lay down suppression fire, advance with you and take out the enemy. There 
 will be other times they stand idly by, while the VC stands a few feet in front of them firing 
 away at fellow teammates. The VC will often run back and forth between two points, never responding 
 to other stimuli (like me plugging a round in to their leg) . Another point that may bother some 
 is that your teammates never die unless it's time for them to die. I've had one of my buddies being 
 mauled by a mounted machine gun, he had to have taken at least 40 rounds and was just yelling at 
 me to help him out. And the last thing that I noticed lacking was lip sync'ing during the "cutscenes". 
 
  
  Now on to what makes this game good. The feel of the weapons, their sounds, are exceptionally good. 
 The environment is good. And the storyline, though not all engrossing, has a certain appeal to 
 it. The scripted series of events are nice to witness and the entire game has a feel that there 
 is a war going on around you (which some games miss) . The various mission types are a major highlight. 
 You aren't stuck with just the routine FPS; you get to man helicopter guns while flying around 
 an LZ. You are often the specialist of your group, equipped with grenade launchers and the like. 
 
  
  One touch that, for me, was very "nifty" was the way they handled the between the missions pause 
 with a letter between your character and his family back home, and how the next mission was portrayed 
 as a small, animated, photograph in the upper right hand corner. 
  
  Overall this game creates a good sense of being in Vietnam, and addresses many of the situations 
 that will be familiar to those who have seen Platoon. If you have some money laying around and 
 you like these types of games I'd suggest it. It's addictive and won't disappoint those that can 
 overlook the flawed AI.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobbygr
Rating: 3.3
Date: Nov 9, 2004 1:59 am PT
Review:  This game was really disappointing. The graphics engine is the same used in deusex invisible war 
 and theif 3. I've you have played those games - then you understand what I mean by a dated poor 
 performing graphics engine. Stay away from games like this - with the unreal warfare engine - it's 
 just awful.
  
  The entire game is like storming the beaches of normandy in the original Medal of Honor. You are 
 constantly fighting against hordes of vietnames and it takes hours to get past each save checkpoint. 
 If you have invested an hour in battle and have to do something else - you better leave your machine 
 running the the game on - or you will have to do that hour all over again.
  
  I will never buy a console port again. This is the last time. I didn't buy a GEFORCE 6800 UItra 
 to look at crappy graphics like this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: epheller
Rating: 3.9
Date: Nov 8, 2004 3:26 am PT
Review:  I give up. This game is annoying an hardly fun at all. It is way too hard. There are no saves at 
 all. I must have played the "clear the village level a dozen times." I will not play it again - 
 an this is on easy. At least the game Vietnam had quicksaves on easy.
  
  After several hours playing the level yesterday, I had to go do something else. So I quit the game. 
 I assumed, falsely it seems, that I would resume where I left off, or at least where my last progress 
 was saved. But no, I was back at the start of the level. This after I had spent hours the previous 
 day clearing several villiages.
  
  This is no fun. Not at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: truelove79
Rating: 5.7
Date: Nov 8, 2004 2:01 am PT
Review:  I am a huge fan of the medal of honor and call of duty series of shooters on the PC. But this game..... oh 
 boy..... it's got console port written all over it. Bad animations, poor performance even on a powerful 
 machine, and muddy graphics. I literally got done with Call of Duty: United Offensive just a few 
 weeks ago and to go from that to this is like leaping back in time about 5 years. Please 2015, 
 don't even bother with console ports to PC anymore. All you will end up doing is disappointing 
 us PC gamers who are used to ultra high standards when it comes to FPSs. Please give us a real 
 vietnam era medal of honor type game that deserves to run on the superior power of a PC. This game 
 feels at least 4 years old, but I guess that makes sense since the current generation of consoles 
 are that old. I would normally be pretty depressed as I've looked forward to this game for a while 
 now, but fortunately I have pacific assault to take my mind off of it.
  
  My rating for this game (in all categories) is in direct comparison to Call of Duty: United Offensive. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: toocooldragon
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 6, 2004 6:33 am PT
Review:  I have bought this game and enjoyed every ounce of it. The sound is great as there are 60's rock 
 music and the shout of your squad mates and gunfires makes this game realistic, there are also 
 the shouting of vietnamese civilians and viet congs. Some of the language and racial slurs are 
 offensive and dont say I didn't warn you, but its one of the good part of the game. 
  The games graphics are amazing, the jungle detail are amazing but not as good as far cry's. The 
 gun's bullet trails are also nice.
  The game offers booby traps and few variaties of weapons, from the tompson to the AK, the grenade 
 launcher to the bayonet. Very creative with a nice touch
  The main flaws bum bum BUMMMM!!
  too hard, squad mates can be an obstacle and do-do headed at times, other than that they are pretty 
 good shooters. 
  Thats it for this review, get this game if you cant afford hl2 or doom 3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masaville
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 30, 2004 3:20 am PT
Review:  I've modified my review in fairness to the developer as the game really starts to pick up after 
 the first few missions.
  
  Weaknesses: The characters slide across the screen in some instances. The animations are somewhat 
 jerky in comparison to other FPS. Enemies seem to 'flop' to their deaths.
  
  Strengths: The audio is quite good. Rendering of the water. Environments and foliage are well done, 
 but those are hampered by the max res of 1280x1024. I maxed everything out at the desktop level 
 (6xAA/16xAF) and it was pretty good, but not great. The rough edges were still quite noticable. 
 Gameplay really starts to pick up and get you into the game after the first few missions. It looks 
 like the atmosphere of the game starts to improve considerably as well.
  
  If you're a die hard FPS fan, don't expect Far Cry or similar. On the same token however, this 
 game has what feels like a solid Vietnam war sim experience that you'll likely enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: artman420
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 28, 2004 11:34 pm PT
Review:  I heard very mixed reviews about this game initially. But since I love war-based FPS games, I decided 
 to give it a go. I was very suprised at how good this game was, but there are some bugs and glitches 
 that could hamper the experience for certain people. 
  
  The single player campaign is decent. To make a long story short, there are a ton of ambushes in 
 this game. 2015 did a good job in creating the whole chaotic atmosphere of 1970's Vietnam. One 
 of the best parts of the game has to be the graphics. The jungle is convincingly created and there 
 are LOTS of places for people to hide. That means you will be going prone or crawling a lot. Partially 
 to sneak up on other people, and also to avoid those nasty amushes. There are lots of them in this 
 game, along with plently of booby traps and other nasty things that will get you killed quickly. 
 In fact, if you go guns blazing, you are are as good as dead. (For instance, at one of the early 
 stages you will have to charge on a hill top and release a smoke grenade to call for an air strike. 
 If you decided to try and run and gun your way to the top of the hill, drop a grenade and run... you 
 will most certainly be killed by the VCs hiding in the bushes or in one of those really nasty machine 
 gun placements.) 
  
  The sense of chaos is a battle is very well created. Your squadmates will curse (a lot) and you 
 will constanly see bullets whizzing by over your head. And don't forget there are plenty of snipers 
 ready for a head shot, assuming you don't die by accidentally walking on a trip wire. The sense 
 of insane jungle/urban combat is well done here. 
  
  But there are problems too. For example, your AI companions have a nasty habit of running in front 
 of you, which in turn can throw you off your bearings and get you killed. At times the VCs can 
 be quite smart, but other times they just mindlessly charge you w/o even pulling out their weapons. 
 And there were times I saw my squadmates stand about 2 feet from the VC and nobody pull the trigger. 
 That kind of hurts the realism of the game. 
  
  Multiplayer is probably my favorite part of the game. The maps are excellent and there are a LOT 
 of bushes that you can hide in. That means great ambush opportunities and also makes for lots of 
 great sniping fodder. The sound is awesome in multiplayer too. You can go for long stretches of 
 silence, execpt for the occassional ambient sound of rustling grass and bird calls. But you can 
 discern the location of hidden foes by the distant sound of gun fire, yelling or even the sound 
 of birds rustling away as people walking under crtain bushes. It's a very visceral and intense 
 multiplayer experience. 
  
  Another good element of note is the fact that you are invulnerable in the beginning of each respawn. 
 That means no stupid spawn campers can hang out and pick you off as you and your teammates respawn. 
 I wish more FPS games would have this feature. 
  
  Overall it is a decent experience, but it has its flaws. You will run into times when you inexplicably 
 get booted to the main screen if an online game is not available, but that's a minor gripe. Overall 
 the game is a good surprise and should satisfty fans of historical FPS shooters like Call of Duty 
 (which is still much better) . 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
