-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Men of War
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/menofwar/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Direct-control mode enhances tactical options.
 Campaign missions explore overlooked WWII battlefields.
 30 hours of single-player gameplay.
 Abundance of historically accurate vehicles.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Excessive micromanagement.
 Tough to get into.
 Dated visuals.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 27, 2009
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 7.8, 8 Review (s)
User Score: 8.3, 222 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Aspyr
Developer: Best Way
Genre: Historic Real-Time...
Date:     Mar 16, 2009
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This demanding World War II real-time strategy game delivers an epic campaign and a new take on 
 tactical combat. 

  In the already crowded field of World War II real-time strategy games, new contenders have to provide 
 something special to distinguish themselves. In order to achieve this, game developers must experiment 
 and push beyond the ordinary, creating games that give us new reasons to revisit WWII again and 
 again. Men of War succeeds at carving a niche within the genre by delivering an epic campaign full 
 of historical detail, plus the ability to jump into your units with a third-person "direct control" 
 mode. Furthermore, Men of War forgoes base building so that you can focus on tactics. These elements 
 combine to produce an experience steeped in history and rich in detail that will reward anyone 
 looking for a challenging new twist on the genre.  

  Men of War is a complex and difficult game, and as such it can be tough to get into. The first 
 mission, which is the closest thing the game has to a tutorial, only teaches you a few basic commands. 
 After that, you'll get some help from the interface, such as the ghostly outlines that show where 
 your troops can take cover and the occasional tool tip that flashes by, but that's about it. This 
 can be problematic when a mission asks you, for example, to booby-trap enemy vehicles or hide dead 
 bodies but gives you no clue as how you do so. Unorthodox controls are common in Men of War, so 
 even relatively simple actions like dividing your units into numbered control groups might prove 
 elusive if you don't take the time to read the instruction manual. The default control scheme uses 
 only the left mouse button for movement, unit selection, and attack and can be tough to learn. 
 Thankfully, you can switch to the more traditional RTS mouse setup in the game options if you prefer. 

  The gameplay in Men of War is engaging and varied. The single-player game is a set of three campaigns. 
 First is the lengthy Russian campaign, which follows two friends in the Red Army who participate 
 in a wide variety of early war missions, such as evacuating Soviet factories and defending the 
 city of Sevastopol. It's truly refreshing to play a WWII game that doesn't take you through the 
 overused battlegrounds of Normandy and Stalingrad, preferring instead to deliver new challenges 
 from the lesser-thumbed pages of history, and, perhaps because Men of War's developers are Ukrainian, 
 they deliver a seemingly thorough and authentic depiction of the war from the Soviet perspective. 
 It's no surprise, then, that the developers played favorites with the Soviet campaign and made 
 the German and American campaigns, which focus on the fighting in North Africa, about half its 
 length. However, the shorter campaigns are anything but short, clocking in at about eight hours 
 apiece, which puts the full single-player experience at 30-plus hours.  

  Part of the explanation for the game's long play time is its grueling difficulty; the rest it owes 
 to a diverse array of long, involved, and realistic missions. Overall mission objectives go well 
 beyond your typical "annihilate the enemy" fare and range from buying time for workers evacuating 
 factory equipment to helping a small team of partisans stir up trouble behind enemy lines. In addition, 
 you'll find a wide variety of tasks to accomplish within each mission. For instance, in the Tobruk 
 level, you must push enemies out of their forward defenses, double back to remove mines and tank 
 traps, fight to get your artillery to the coast, blow up several transports and a dilapidated battleship, 
 swing around to take out a fortress behind your lines, and then send five men through an underground 
 tunnel to seize control of British fuel supplies. With so many objectives to tackle, you'll often 
 spend 90 minutes or more on a single mission -- hours if it's a particularly difficult one -- and at 
 the mission's conclusion, you'll be able to enjoy a well-earned sense of achievement.  

           Where there's smoke, there's trouble.      

  Men of War's most distinctive feature 
 is the ability to take direct control of one of your units. This lets you control the unit with 
 your keyboard and mouse like in a third-person action game. Although you'll need to directly control 
 an infantryman in certain circumstances (such as shooting out enemy spotlights on a stealth mission) , 
 tanks are by far the most fun. While driving a tank, you can alternate between machine gun and 
 main gun firing modes at will, and given that all buildings are destructible, you can, for instance, 
 flatten a house filled with enemy infantry and then cackle maniacally as you pepper the fleeing 
 survivors with your machine gun. Of course, playing with tanks is fun no matter which mode you're 
 in, especially if you love seeing numerous real-world models depicted with historical accuracy. 
 For example, tank enthusiasts will be wowed by how many different models of the Soviet T-34 tank 
 are represented.  

  As if directly controlling units, finding cover for your infantry, and working toward your objectives 
 aren't enough, Men of War has an additional responsibility in store for you: Limited ammo. In the 
 event that any of your guys run out of bullets, you'll need to search corpses and supply creates 
 for more. Additionally, looting corpses will garner you all sorts of items to augment your troops' 
 effectiveness. Although there is a certain engrossing realism to the fact that your soldiers can 
 equip any dropped gun, helmet, or grenade that they find, micromanaging your squad's inventory, 
 and looting and equipping items, can become overwhelming. Regardless, you will still experience 
 a profound feeling of accomplishment whenever your motley crew of units scavenges enough enemy 
 supplies to barely make it through a mission.  

  Multiplayer in Men of War supports up to 16 players in both LAN and online matches and there are 
 seven different game types to choose from that consist of variations on four basic themes. Given 
 that there are no enemy bases to destroy, multiplayer matches are decided by points. Depending 
 on the game type, those points can be earned by controlling areas of the map; by towing a randomly 
 placed cargo wagon to your base, or simply by killing as many enemies as possible. Furthermore, 
 you can play through the campaigns cooperatively with a friend, which is definitely a welcome addition. 
 Curiously absent is any kind of skirmish mode for playing against computer opponents, which is 
 unfortunate given that versions of the game from different territories aren't always compatible 
 with each other which can make opponents difficult to find.  

           For the final three minutes of his life, Private Demidov would be the proud owner of a 
 German machine gun.      

  Men of War's graphics and audio are nothing special, although the sound effects are good enough 
 that you can distinguish noises as subtle as an enemy soldier crawling through the grass to throw 
 an antitank grenade. The music is repetitive and becomes annoying due to the prolonged nature of 
 the missions. Furthermore, the pathetic English-language voice acting, when combined with awkward 
 character animations, makes for some unintentionally hilarious cutscenes that don't mesh with the 
 game's otherwise gritty mood. One nice thing about the visuals is the inclusion of some greenery, 
 in contrast to the traditional WWII palate of dirt brown and rubble gray. Overall, though, the 
 graphics don't compare too favorably with recent RTS games.  

  From the direct-control feature to the lovingly replicated historical vehicles, Men of War is full 
 of well-crafted details that should make it especially appealing to history buffs. The steep learning 
 curve alone will be enough to keep some players from enjoying everything that Men of War has to 
 offer, but the reward for perseverance is a WWII campaign experience like no other game on the 
 market.  

    Editor's Note: The preceding review replaces the Men of War review that was originally posted 
 on GameSpot, which was found to contain a number of factual inaccuracies. We regret the error. 
      
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (15 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: caesarjd
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 12, 2009 1:28 pm PT
Review:  I have to admit to being a fan of militarily accurate RTS'. The Close Combat series is one of my 
 all time favorite games, particularly due to its notable lack of resource gathering. MOW is similar 
 to Close Combat and Codename Panzers. While Close Combat is old by any standard if I was comparing 
 the two games on equal footing, I'd give close combat a 9.5, a full point ahead of MOW. Codename 
 Panzers would earn a 8 simply because you can't pull out far enough to get a good overview of the 
 tactical situation. MOW can however sometimes be overwhelming, requiring too much interaction with 
 too many units. Another failure of Panzers, but something I never experienced in Close Combat. 
 It is a good game though, that I've found worth playing if you're into realistic (generally speaking) 
 RTS games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cardinaluk
Rating: 4.5
Date: Apr 6, 2009 4:12 am PT
Review:  Sorry to say this to all the Soldiers: Heroes of World War 2 fans, your dreams have been shattered 
 by this game.
  
  A superb game engine has been used to create a shoddy mess of game design.
  I have two main problems 
 with the Single Player game:
  
  Artificial Intelligence
  Allies and enemies act okay but their behaviour has been changed from S: HoWW2 for some reason. 
 An example of this is that if your tank is damaged and can't move or you are out of petrol, a gross 
 amount of German soldiers will huddle around your tank and will kill you if you attempt to get 
 out of it. This may happen in real life if the Germans did'nt have any anti-tank grenades or smoke 
 to get you out of the tank but in this game its an extreme flaw.
  
  Voice Acting.
  I understand that some of these games are made on a budget but the voice acting seems to have been 
 performed by the programmers themselves. But the fact that the programmers have been on a late 
 one the night before and can't really be arsed to do it in the first place. In fact, for me the 
 story and convincing acting is integral to a games polish and presentation, which subsequently 
 adds to an overall experience of a game.
  
  There are some good points still left such as the micro-management which is integral to the game 
 engine, a feature which made repairing/refueling a tank before a German Battalion gets to you a 
 frantic affair and gave some really tense moments.
  
  The multiplayer on Soldiers: Heroes of World War 2 was excellent and offered a rare opportunity 
 to play coop through most of the missions. I have NOT played multiplayer on Men of War so I cannot 
 comment on this.
  
  Finally I'm not sure whether these other reviewers have played Soldiers: Heroes of WW2, but a lot 
 of them seem to be quite keen on giving this game a very high score. To me it seems a little weird 
 to be honest, it's as if I'm playing a completely different game. Am I? 
  I am utterly shocked by some of the reviews here, I really am, but then I suppose a lot of people 
 who review have not played the game properly. I hope so.
  
  I gave this score down to disappointment but also a waste of money, which I think is always a crime. 
 I am glad that it is not related to Soldiers: Heroes of World War 2, as I would feel violated. 
 And defiled.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: floridajoe03
Rating: 1
Date: Apr 5, 2009 1:14 pm PT
Review:  So I decided to buy a new game called Men of War. Worst RTS I bought in all my life. Please, just 
 don't even bother, If you have Company of Heroes, keep playing it, It's a great game, Men of War, 
 not even close to CoH's glory.
  
  When you start the game the first thing you will notice is the horrid voice acting. It makes me 
 want to crack the disc in half, but I don't, because I know I'll be able to sucker someone into 
 buying this game. 
  The second thing you'll notice is the graphics, also horrible. 
  Third thing you'll notice is the messed up controls, and you'll wonder why Best Way is trying to 
 give you a migraine trying to figure them out. 
  The fourth thing is the glitches, "Why are there 20 Germans huddling around my tank?" is what I 
 was wondering 2 minutes into the game. 
  The fifth thing is the difficulty, "So how is it that the Germans have 2 anti-tank guns, multiple 
 tanks themselves, and about 24 soldiers when I have one tank, and 4 men??". 
  The sixth thing is the micro-managing, If anyone can show me a game that has you micro-manage any 
 more than this game, I would give you Men of War for free, not that I would care anyways...
  Oh, did I mention that I already had Company of Heroes before I bought this? No, I probably didn't. 
 Well, let me give you one piece of advice:
  IF YOU HAVE COMPANY OF HEROES, DON'T BUY MEN OF WAR!!! YOU'LL REGRET IT!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tigershuffle
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 28, 2009 3:58 pm PT
Review:  Once you get over the poor voice acting, (particularly noticable in the first mission) , its a great 
 game. 
  
  There are some gameplay mods already out, which for me is always a good sign. 
  Ive installed a 'realism' mod  that adds realistic 
 damage, so you do end up having to scour the carnage for those essential extras like ammo and bandages.
 
  
  The scale of some of the battles is impressive, though your pc might not thank you for it!! 
 
  Completed the Sevastapol mission (which you actually lose for historical realism) If you click 
 continue after passing mission, the resulting tank and infantry attack by the Germans is awesome.
 
  
  Nice mix of strategy and stealth in some missions which adds a change of pace, though they may 
 seem a bit dull after some of the more frenetic missions.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FatPipe
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 26, 2009 2:47 pm PT
Review:  I started off hating this game, but once I got the hang of it, I was bordering on addiction. Taking 
 two days to finish a level with nothing but a sniperno tanks, no aerial assult etc., doesn't sound 
 like to much fun right? Wrong! 
  
  Graphics  Nothing groundbreaking, but smooth as silk and zero crashes running full tilt at 1920X1080. 
 Load times were decent and screen lag wasn't an issue. Textures were clean, but not crazy detailed, 
 still enough to make the point.
  
  Gameplay  Holy cr*p, can you say hard! I have done my share of RTS games, but for some reason 
 this one gave me a bit of trouble. Maybe because the attention to detail made the game almost too 
 real. The AI was decent, but it was easy to eventually figure out the AI pattern and just wait 
 for the characters to resetbut what fun is in that! The missions were long, and I am talking days 
 long in some casesthat feeling of accomplishment that you get in a RTS after winning a battlegone 
 in this game because one mission segues right into anotherin some cases you can even carry over 
 your (living) soldiers and inventory with you.
  
  Storyline  This is where the tilt goes the other way. Voice acting gets a C- at best, and the 
 in-game character response got so bad I had to turn it off. Same with musicnot so good.
  
  Overall  Hard to say with this oneif you have the patience of a saint, and you are willing to 
 devote some series time and frustration levels to a game, then maybe your ok. If not, wait for 
 bargain bin and play on or two missions and be done with it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Volk13
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 26, 2009 10:54 am PT
Review:  At 1st at a glance the game seemed OK - but after I played first 2 missions - it really grew on 
 me. The Game is great for all who love squad untit tactics, mixing up artillery, infantry and armor. 
 Here infantry makes a big difference instead of just beeing cannon fodder and getting killed to 
 quickly. Cover is very important and so is a very well placed anti-tank grenade. Units behave well 
 although there is some pathfinding issues. Massive charges seldom work and combination of armor 
 and infantry makes a big difference. Grenades work well with AI using them well against you. 
 
  Almost everything is destructable so hiding behind vehicles can sometimes end up in a big blazing 
 death. 
  Few bugs such as pathfinding, and Inventory - should have made it easier to check between squadmates. 
 
  Missiosn are realisting especially with Soviets using Convict/Criminals as troops - which really 
 did happen and any escaped POW was investigated. Using naval troops in Sevastopol mission was also 
 accurate. 
  To correct Gamespot review the LMB issue can be resolved - just go to options and deselect the 
 LMB only option and then its back to familiar RTS controlls.
  
  Overall great game - better then I expected. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: echoman6007
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 28, 2009 1:09 pm PT
Review:  This game is well worth more than a 6.5 rating. Just hate to see a great game get a low rating 
 and have people not even try it because of it. The single player missions can get hard at times 
 and will take you a few tries to get through. But if it was easy then it would be no fun.
  
  The interfaces is not as easy as those click feast games that seem to get high ratings, but 
 the game play is far better than those games. It takes thinking of what your going to do then just 
 mass men and charge in. No zerg rushing allowed here. 
  
  Where this game shines is in its Multi player game. You don't build bases like most RTS's out there. 
 You start with some points to buy men. as the game goes on and you take out your opponents men 
 you get more points. Then bigger and better equipment and men open up to buy. Every thing on the 
 map can get destroyed. As said each unit has its own inventory, but not as hard to manage as made 
 out to be. Tanks will take damage from all parts of the vehicle, Tracks knock out, Main gun destroyed. 
 engine destroyed etc... But all these things can be repaired by a near by troop or one of the men 
 operating the tank ( if that tank as a tool box in its inventory) . Which is cool because you can 
 have a guy repair the tank while your enemy is fighting other targets. You will be able to take 
 ammo from one tank and put it in a other as long as it is the same shell size that it uses ( 75mm 
 will not work in a 88mm tank) .
  
  Men can go in to buildings and use it for cover to shoot from. Anti tank guns have camo bushes 
 that they can use to hide there gun in. You have to use inf. to move ahead of your tanks to see 
 what is out in front. The range of tanks is farther than just what is in front to them. So if you 
 have a scout 100m out in front you can use your tank to shoot at approaching enemy. Use hidden 
 inf to throw an anti tank grenade on a unsuspecting enemy tanks. There is just so many little perks 
 that this game offers that other ones don't. The list goes on as how much this game has to offer.
 
  
  There is a Demo out give it a try. But it does not give justice to how the Multi player works.
 
  
  Final note. The voice acting is the worst of any game out there. But that is easy to get over.
 
  
  
  Edit: Now Gamespots score does not show and the average of other companys is 7.9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robrob12345
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 25, 2009 7:47 am PT
Review:  This game is hard, really hard and unforgiving... it is also flawed (awful mission briefs) and 
 has quite a few faults (in that its interface is a bit naff and the whole thing requires a lot 
 of attention to detail) and yet it is for a WW2 RTS fan one of the best WW2 RTS games out there. 
 
  
  I necessarily don't want to slate Gamespot for their review but it is difficult to see how a game 
 so in-depth that realises such a magnificent scale could be as low as 6.5! Crazy.
  
  It is all about direct control and steady attrition driving your T-34's into battle and reclaiming 
 the Nazi's abandoned tanks to bolster your side when the chips are down. Sure it isn't an over 
 polished arcade fest or an overhyped shiny new EA game but it has B*lls and it is a challenge and 
 it is also 30 hours of single player game play... not bad for 17.99.
  
  Anyways, if you like Soldiers, Hero of WW2 or the inferior Faces of War then I couldn't recommend 
 this game more. A solid 8 out of 10 would have been fair but I shall award a 9 just to balance 
 things out a bit.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: daruka2000
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 24, 2009 3:48 pm PT
Review:  Hey, i had no expectations from this game when i first saw it, and the first mission felt nice, 
 but un-intuitive and camera controls suck.
  
  But the second mission where you have to protect a train for a period of time surprised me, so 
 here i am in a few blocks of city just before the train station with a few hundred units, canons 
 and tanks that i have to control all around the perimeter, it scared me.
  
  I play a lot of rts games and in the last few years the trend was towards less units and more control, 
 and this is exactly the opposite. I started and realized my units also have AI, which is unusual, 
 so its actually AI playing vs AI on its AI terms with my heavy involvement on one side. Thats amazing, 
 its like watching a movie unfold while having a say in it and not knowing how it will end.
  
  So there i was, failed first 2 times but decided to try again on easy, one thing to mention 
 they do shoot for realizm when they make a half an hour or more (didnot check, might have been 
 an hour) mission, usually in other rts games this protective missions end much earlier.
  
  So there i was at 50% picking up grenades from dead german bodies so i can take out more tanks, 
 there is way too many german tanks in the end - they simply swamp you. Busy as hell, tired already. 
 I have a feeling its not gonna work out, i already lost a couple of city blocks and lost a lota 
 good guys.
  
  1 guy caught my attention, he was surrounded by a tank and 3-4 soldiers and his buddy just died 
 trying to throw a grenade at a tank, only other soldier next to him was protecting his left side. 
 So i take him and throw grenade at a tank, he makes it alive, takes out other couple of guys and 
 uses a med-kit. Pleasant surprise. I put him standing behind a barrel, in my personal experience 
 that means he will eventually die, but needed to do it to keep back the enemy soldiers. What was 
 my surprise when i come back a couple minutes later and he is still there with a pile of enemy 
 bodies laying everywhere. Thats how the heroes are born. He lived for a few more minutes and eventually 
 i checked on him, he was dead.
  
  At about 75% my hope came back, looks like we are still holding, its a very hard game in some missions. 
 So i started playing again, i was just watching mostly before that. But we were getting crushed, 
 overpowering enemy forces kept rolling in.
  
  At 90% i thought its over, at 97% i still had a handful of soldiers and last line of defence at 
 the train station, i didnot touch that before on purpose, knew i will need it for last fight. At 
 98% half of what i had before was dead, i had about 20 soldiers and a tank, thats it. And enemy 
 had large army just held back.
  
  99% my last soldiers are falling, i am not sure i can make it. 100% train was struck a few times 
 but is rolling away from the station safe, my last soldier falls, nobody made it onto the train. 
 That cinematic is lying, i saw that guy fall.
  
  So its a bitter victory, for the first time in a long time i actually had sorrow inside for how 
 many people died in wars and how much pain it brings. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Reindeer
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 26, 2009 7:43 pm PT
Review:  First off this is a true real time strategy. Very realistic for an rts in this age of action orientated 
 strat games I never write reviews for games anymore but this one is so low on the radar i had to 
 show my appreciation for it. 
  
  Game play: There is quite a bit of micromanagement required to be successful in the game. For example 
 you cant just click a bunch of units and tell them to execute a attack move and expect them to 
 tear things up. The AI seems to be stunted on your side a bit to require you to manage your units 
 individually. Occasionally a mass attack move works but as the levels progress you'll find being 
 meticulous and taking your time will pay the best dividends.
  
  Graphics: Modern graphics in urban settings. Constant frame drops that make a few levels very annoying 
 to get through. I found myself just trying to get through some levels hoping the next was less 
 of a hog. Some levels have hundreds of units on the map which really stressed my system. Even dropping 
 the graphics to low settings didin't eliminate frame drops on a few levels.
  
  Audio: Standard
  
  Tilt: No skirmish mode :/ Campaign does have good replay value. Many defensive 
 levels in which your trying to hold out against hordes of troops/tanks
  Most realistic ww2 rts iv ever played. 
  
  Comp= AMD Phenom Quad 9200, 2 gigs ddr2, nvidia 
 BFG 8800GTS 512
  
  EDIT --- I upgraded my comp from 2 gigs to 8 gigs and the frame drops almost stopped. Levels with 
 tons of units still slow my comp for whatever reason. May be my video card with ONLY 512mb. Any 
 lag in this game can be highly detrimental to your success considering the micro management required 
 to properly conduct maneuvers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gijas
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 21, 2009 12:04 pm PT
Review:  Many people think this game is innovative. Nah, the formula has been around for quit some time 
 since Soldiers: Heroes of WWII if you remember that game. I bought Soldiers when it first came 
 out and at the time the game was exciting as it had direct control, a unit inventory, etc.. in 
 fact many of these game elements were brand new to the genre at the time but Men of War is basically 
 a improved version of this game and the more recent FOW that came out not long ago.
  
  In Men of War you have dirct control, unti hit points, inventory just like in Soldiers and Faces 
 but many of these elements are improved upon and refined. The interface has changed from previous 
 versions. Its more user friendly and a lot easier to navigate around.
  
  The story is a mix of missions from different sides of the war just like Soldiers and FOW. I feel 
 more like Im playing Splinter Cell than WWII since there are so many spy/recon missions mainly 
 from the Russian story.
  I would like to see more large scale battles in the game like the last mission of the German story 
 where you have to defend Tunisa against the British and counter attack. I like to play as Germany 
 rather than Russia personally. 
  
  The graphics are really good and has improved since Faces of War. Really nice details went into 
 the terrian, grass that is especially thick in the games levels. The effects such as smoke and 
 explosions look extremely detailed during night battles or missions.
  
  The voice acting? - well it sucks. That is something Russian developers need to improve upon in 
 thier games is to hire someone that can sound natural speaking the English language. Other sounds 
 are great as you can hear the cry's of the fallen and the screams throughout the game.
  
  The game runs extremly well on my Core 2 Duo 2.66 ghz. I have 2 g's of RAM and Win XP Pro. No crashes, 
 lag or graphical defects to speak of on updated Nvidia drivers and a 9800 GF gpu. I have the game 
 set at the very highest settings in the graphics menu by the way.
  
  Replay value is high even in single player because you can re-play missions in different ways using 
 diverse strategies each time. Of course the mulitplayer will keep you busy if your into playing 
 others online but I personally prefer single player myself. You have standard multiplayer modes 
 such as DM, TDM, CTF, and a few new ones but I dont know their names. 
  
  Overall, Men of War is a tactical - realtime strategy game that plays just like the old Soldiers: 
 Heroes of WWII and Faces of War but has some new features mainly in the multiplayer part of the 
 game. If you have played any of the previous games and liked them I suggest picking this game up. 
 If you have interest in something new and challenging likewise. However, if your into Company of 
 Heroes type gameplay you might want to pass this up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shrody
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 20, 2009 3:35 am PT
Review:  I must admit at first that there were only 2 reasons I wanted to try this game. 1. Its made by 
 Russians and that means that the guys that made will give 110% because I guess its in their nature. 
 2. Another WW2 RTS game. Well.. I had some expectations and they were exceeded from the first 15 
 minutes of playing this game. First thing is that the gameplay is very well done and it is challenging 
 to finish a mission because its maybe the first game in which you care about the people you are 
 commanding. I mean sure we have DoW2 but with so many spawn points you really don't care if a marine 
 dies, but here, when your supposed to capture a village that is held by 200 Germans and you only 
 have 8 guys, well that is a challenge. Now we have some things we saw in games like company of 
 heroes, maybe that is the only game which comes close to this one. Why? Well here we have a cover 
 system and we can take over artillery and other thing. I couldn't understand when I try to capture 
 a panzer that is barely scratched my soldier which are a former tank crew have no idea how to operate 
 another tank. Anyway that doesn't bother you very much but it is a little stressful. I read on 
 the Gamespot forums that there are to many defensive missions, well in the first half of the war 
 that is what the Russians did, besides in real life you can't just create 10 tank and blow up half 
 on square mile just because it is fun. I have to say that people who believe that Red Alert 3 is 
 the way all RTS should be, than they shouldn't even touch this game. This game focuses on the real 
 aspects of war, the feeling you have is that always the AI has the upper hand and you will surely 
 lose the mission, but even when all hope is gone you can run with one of your snipers climb him 
 on a building and start punishing every enemy. It is a game in which numbers are not important, 
 but tactics. The vehicles take damage in every part and can get immobilized and so on. The graphics 
 are more than good for a game like this one, the story is something just to give you a reason to 
 link the missions but all in all is pretty good. The voice acting is a bit cheap and I've noticed 
 some small problems with the waypoints and it is a bit difficult controlling more than 3 soldiers 
 inside a building. From my point of view this game is worth every penny and people that enjoy a 
 true tactical approach of the 2nd world war then this is a right game for you. Have Fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BBoySJ
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 18, 2009 4:35 am PT
Review:  It's the 2nd game using amazing game engine called "GEM". First one was "Soldiers : Heroes of world 
 war 2" and the second "Faces Of War". 
  
  This game have amazing in game sounds which make you feel like realy being in the battlefield. 
 Graphics are realy impressive, units and vehicles looks very detailed for a strategy game, camera 
 is very good you can zoom so that you can see soldiers faces.
  
  Men of war may look like any other strategy game, but it features a lot of interesting and unique 
 things like :
  
  Fully destructible terrain, buildings - Then you shoot a HE to the ground it will explode and leave 
 a crater, if you shoot to the building in won't lose health and change it's texture. The Buildings 
 part where you hit will collapse and will hurt anyone nearby
  
  Inventory - Everyone have it's inventory, arm any weapon you like to any unit, give him armor, 
 grenades everything
  
  Direct Control - This is the most unique feature in strategy games, You press CTRL (By Default) 
 and you can control your unit using arrows to walk and mouse to aim and shoot.
  
  Men of war have 3 campaigns. Russian, German and American/British. All three have little story 
 after missions, characters going from mission to mission. Cinematics are quite interesting but 
 lacks of good voice acting (It's Russian game, what do you expect) 
  
  Men of war is basically same Faces of war, but it's drasticly updated:
  Updated Grafics engine 
 - New self shadowing, bloom effects, high quality water reflections.
  
  Upgraded penetration damage system, better squad control, the very new shooting system - Bullet 
 spreading. stance impact shooting e. t. c
  
  New Massive Battles !!! - You control EVERYONE on the map and can control and archive your goal 
 as you wish 
  
  To sum up, if you like to try something "different" you should try this game. You don't have to 
 built base or collect resources forget it. Just plain action. Yes you will have to sweat a little 
 bit because it's not easy , but once you get it you will get addicted to it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kennyjagifford
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 6, 2009 2:06 am PT
Review:  I've only played the demo but this game seems to fit me more than other WW2 strategy games. You 
 control individual men instead of squads and can combine your forces along with vehicles to great 
 effect. I'm really surprised Gamespot hasn't reviewed this. It's surprising that such a polished 
 and enjoyable game can slip out into the market under the radar of the big publishers as it puts 
 their games to some shame.
  
  There seems to be a lot of depth in the game, which the demo only touches on. The storyline is 
 a bit cringe-worthy but is bearable to point out your next objectives. There are a couple of hero-class 
 characters which, as yet, have to develop further. Each player carries an inventory of items too, 
 which can be added to by searching the dead or ammo caches.
  
  I'm very keen to buy this and see the full thing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BurroDiablo
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 3, 2009 6:51 am PT
Review:  First impressions of the game aren't good; the voice acting is terrible, the controls are confusing 
 and complicated and the objectives are never a clear as they should be. Not to mention, the missions 
 are near impossible, the 'helpful hints' are severely lacking and the most annoying thing of all 
 is... I liked it.
  
  Why is this annoying? Let me explain-
  
  I'm a long time Company of Heroes player and I got this game to ridicule it, to say that CoH is 
 the best WW2 RTS ever and leave it at that. But MoW proved me wrong... but it not only proved me 
 wrong, it showed me how Company of Heroes could be drastically improved. For one, the damage system 
 is perfect since your vehicles show realistic damage and have no need for the fabled 'health bar' 
 system. Tanks rarely explode, unless your set the engine on fire, which mean most Tanks only become 
 'destroyed' when the Crew abandons it. This gives you the opportunity to run out onto the battlefield 
 and salvage enemy hardware for your own use, and can easily turn the tide of the battle... given 
 you salvage a good enough vehicle. 
  I have to point out that this game has very little in common with CoH; the damage system is different, 
 the cover system not only different, but is much better, Infantry can be selected as squads OR 
 as individuals and best of all, MoW has a direct firing system, which essentially means you can 
 kill/disable enemies from a distance away, given your gun is powerful enough. It makes killing 
 those Heavier tanks a little easier.
  Missions can be tedious, actually a lot of the time your find yourself reloading the game after 
 your plans fall apart before your eyes. Its easy to set up defences thinking they're as impenetrable 
 as the Maginot Line, but as soon as the enemy brings out the heavy guns and you have nothing to 
 counter it, you have to swallow your pride and start thinking on your feet as one after the other, 
 your Anti-Tank guns bite the dust. Most of the time, your fighting a losing battle against a superior 
 enemy and the objective is simply to hold-out for as long as possible, which is easier said than 
 done... the last Allied mission is prime example. The infiltration missions too can be quite tiresome 
 since they can take a long time to complete.
  
  My only severe quibble that makes this game not a 9/10 is the fact there is no Skirmish mode with 
 some AI. There's a LAN and Internet Skirmish mode, but I know nobody else with this game and most 
 people on the Internet are gits.
  
  Overall, the game is a decent buy if you plan to play it after the missions, the LAN and Internet 
 skirmish modes look brilliant (like a CoH/WiC love child) ... I'm looking forward to tanning the 
 crap out of a Centurion MKIII with an IS-3.
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
