-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Messiah
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/messiah/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr  7, 2000
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6
Critic Score: 7.5, 28 Review (s)
User Score: 7.4, 291 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Interplay
Developer: Shiny
Genre: Sci-Fi Action Adventure
Date:     Mar 31, 2000
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Messiah is relatively short, and the memorable set pieces are interrupted by too many uninspired 
 jumping puzzles. 

 It must be stated from the outset that Messiah is buggy. It locked up every 45 minutes like clockwork 
 on two different test machines. Three-quarters of the way through the game, it began crashing every 
 time the game attempted to load a specific, unavoidable area. This problem was eventually solved 
 by copying a save-game file over to the second machine. The game's instability isn't its only flaw, 
 and its bug-ridden state shouldn't be excused by the fact that it might eventually be fixed with 
 a patch. However, the technical trials involved in running the program are somewhat mitigated by 
 its occasional clever and original gameplay elements.  

 Although the advertising might lead you to believe that Messiah is a shooter, it's actually more 
 of a third-person platform game with some gunplay. Title aside, Messiah's story has little to do 
 with Christianity except in the broadest possible sense. The Devil has positioned himself as the 
 ruler of an earthly technocratic dystopia. God sends an angel called Bob to do battle with Satan 
 for the ultimate survival of the universe and whatnot in Faktur, a city filled with sex workers, 
 corrupt cops, and cannibalistic humanoid underground dwellers (for some reason referred to as CHOTs 
 rather than CHUDs) . The plot seems mainly an excuse for the developers to present the effectively 
 incongruous image of a diapered cherub scooting through a grim and violent urban wasteland.  

 
 Though Messiah seems like a basic third-person platform game, the developers have added a wholly 
 original element to the formula: possession. Here's how it works: You control Bob. You have no 
 offensive abilities or armor. You can run and jump and, thanks to Bob's tiny wings, you can fly 
 for short distances. But your secret weapon is the ability to enter into any living creature and 
 take control of its body. Once inside a body, you automatically use it as a living health pack, 
 as you replenish your hit points by draining health from the host. You are also in full control 
 of the stolen body until it either dies or you dispossess it, at which point you come shooting 
 out the back, leaving your host dazed for a few moments. The possession concept adds a great many 
 opportunities for creative level design. Messiah is linear, but within each concurrent major area 
 you are generally given plenty of room to explore and commandeer bodies to perform various tasks. 
 The tasks range from stealthy maneuvering to brute-force combat. Successfully completing a set 
 of possession-oriented trials is often quite satisfying, thanks to sheer originality of the style 
 of play.  

 The artificial intelligence of the computer-controlled characters is also excellent. Enemies will 
 use cover and attempt to circle behind you. Their behavior isn't always utterly realistic. For 
 instance, enemies have an annoying ability to target you instantly once you draw their attention. 
 However, their actions are at least predictable. Once you learn each of the character types' reactions 
 and range of perception, you can use that knowledge to develop tactics to deal with the game's 
 various situations. Patiently watching a street scene from high atop a ledge, swooping down to 
 possess a character caught away from nearby companions, then strolling right by those armed companions 
 unmolested in your stolen body is an exhilarating and unique game experience.  

 Unfortunately, Messiah is relatively short, and the memorable set pieces are interrupted by too 
 many uninspired jumping puzzles. With the option available to create more interesting gameplay 
 sequences involving possession, the straight jumping areas feel like nothing more than padding. 
 The game also desperately needs a tutorial level. It takes some time to become acclimated to Messiah's 
 controls and the structure underlying its puzzles, and the developers don't do much to ease the 
 process. The first level is a real exercise in frustration, as you'll naturally try to play the 
 game as a shooter and fail repeatedly.  

 Fortunately, the environment's graphics are terrific for the most part, though they're guilty of 
 dipping from that bottomless well of game art-direction inspiration, Blade Runner. Furthermore, 
 Messiah's much-hyped character rendering system, which adds and removes polygons on the fly to 
 maintain a consistent frame rate, doesn't seem to be a complete success. Characters often appear 
 misshapen, and many are poorly animated. Worse yet, while the frame rate does remain consistent 
 when frames are actually moving, the game frequently stutters noticeably when you turn to face 
 a new part of a scene. Messiah is littered with other small problems. For instance, the game seems 
 best suited to gamepad control, but a Microsoft Sidewinder's nine buttons aren't enough to accommodate 
 all of the game's necessary actions.  

 Even though it was in development for more than three years, Messiah still feels rushed. It's got 
 one good idea, but it's a really good idea - and one original concept is still one more than most 
 games offer. During the occasional moments when Messiah gets everything right, it transcends its 
 many shortcomings. But it's bogged down by its litany of problems more often than not, while it 
 frequently squanders its best play mechanic.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: cronos_ke
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 9, 2009 4:08 am PT
Review:  The game is a lot of fun and it is a game experience that I don't think has been recreated in any 
 game since. When I played it I remember some moments that really made me go wow! It's been a long 
 time but I can still clearly remember giddily flapping and flying and jumping into a guards body 
 who had a nail gun and then shooting his buddy into a column where he stay, dangling 4 feet off 
 the ground... anyway i give it an 8.3. Or 8... Anyway it is dissapointingly short. But the fact 
 is it is so dissapointing because the game is so unique and different and actually a lot of fun.
 
  
  Personally I think the game was probably rushed to production before it was truly finished or truly 
 should have been released. But either way worth playing even now when it's nearly 10 years since 
 it has been released. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: akerbeltzz
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 18, 2007 3:50 pm PT
Review:  N&atilde; o sei porque a Gamespot deu essa nota...
  Lembro que via esse jogo na CDExpert e ficava louco para comprar, mas nunca tive a chance, por 
 n&atilde; o ter onde vender e pela edi&ccedil;&atilde; o ter sa&iacute; do de venda.
  Mas da&iacute; fui no Mercadolivre e achei! Comprei, o Original, e... me DECEPCIONEI! Porque? Porque 
 s&oacute; rodava em 98, no XP era sem som... xD
  Mas da&iacute; fechei ele, era meio chato e algumas vezes dava pau, mas da&iacute; nesses dias 
 mesmo bateu uma saudade de jogar de novo... E olha que fazia uns 2 anos que num jogava Messiah.
 
  Instalei, puxei o Patch 2.0 e adicionei uma linha de comando no atalho e... AGORA DEU CERTO! Tem 
 som!
  A experi&ecirc; ncia mudou completamente, num era mais uma coisa sem vida, estava completamente 
 diferente! Gostei muito! Vamos falar sobre o jogo agora...
  Os gr&aacute; ficos s&atilde; o muito fodas! Muito legais e d&aacute; para fazer muita coisa no cen&aacute; rio.
 
  A jogabilidade, bem... a camera... a&iacute; desaponta um pouco, meio ruinzinho sinceramente, 
 mas nada que atrapalhe MUUUUUITO.
  Oque &eacute; legal mesmo &eacute; a quantidade de personagens que a gente pode possuir e a quantidade 
 de armas! A&iacute; n&atilde; o desaponta...
  Oque &eacute; meio chato, &eacute; na hora de atirar, por exemplo, possu&iacute; mos um policial, 
 e estamos l&aacute; junto com 3 policiais... normal, num fazem nada, da&iacute; aparecem uns chots 
 (inimigos) e os policiais atiram, se A GENTE atirar nos chots, os policiais atiram na gente tamb&eacute; m! 
 Que merda, e tamb&eacute; m num podemos ''sacar'' a arma que os fdps j&aacute; ficam l&aacute; prontos 
 para atirar...
  Cada personagem, cada ''possess&atilde; o'' &eacute; essencial para voc&ecirc; passar o jogo, para 
 resolver os puzzles e fazer estrat&eacute; gias, al&eacute; m de poder possuir personagens como prostitutas, 
 Behemoths, dan&ccedil; arinas, guardas, monstros, etc...
  Para mim o jogo n&atilde; o &eacute; muito grande, para mim &eacute; meio curto, mas a&iacute; j&aacute; 
 depende da pessoa que est&aacute; jogando n&eacute;...
  Conclus&atilde; o final: &Eacute; um jogo muito legal para se jogar muitas vezes, mas depois disso, 
 enjoa... num &eacute; t&atilde;&atilde;&atilde; o bom, mas tamb&eacute; m num &eacute; uma merda 
 n&eacute;... (sem contar os bugs) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oscarmik
Rating: 9
Date: May 11, 2007 1:47 pm PT
Review:  This game is easily one of the best I've played so far. The graphics are dated, true. But the gameplay 
 makes it up.
  
  Possesing a character after which you'll be able to walk along their species without them knowing 
 who you really are is just plain awesome. There are quite a lot of different life forms to posses, 
 from giant mutants trained by the cop, put into a heavy armor with build-in rocket launcher and 
 infinite machine gun to Pimp Daddy.
  
  I haven't noticed any laggs at all whilst playing this game and the graphics aren't that bad, Erik 
 must've been playing this game on a quite slow computer whilst reviewing this game.
  
  The guns. The guns are fun to use, but easy (gunfights with multiple enemies can be a pain in the 
 a** tho) . The melee combat is fun :) You can snap people's necks by sneaking up to them or a special 
 melee cop-unit has a weapon which is basically an electric-stick without any electricity needed, 
 it stuns after just one hit so it's better if your try to avoid getting close to them (they have 
 flash grenades and they have a special shield too whilst crouching) .
  
  Talking about guns, there is one AWESOME gun. The Harpoon Gun, you can shoot people, after which 
 they travel with the harpoon through their body until they hit a solid object (wall/pipe) . They'll 
 die quickly or they'll still live for a minute or two, their pain screams are satisfying, very, 
 very satisfying. It just scares me of good it feels XD
  
  This game is dated, and rather short (It's not very short but when your done playing, you'll just 
 wish the game was longer) . There are multiple difficulties, The hardest one is really hard, whenever 
 your host dies in any other mode, Bob will just jump out. But if your host dies in the most difficult 
 mode, Bob will die too. You'll most certainly die if you end up in a gunfight with 5 cops with 
 machineguns. If you manage to press backspace (or any other key mapped to the jump-out animation) 
 and Bob jumps out, you should make sure that you have the ability to posses another host soon or 
 run.
  
  This game is really awesome, better than most of the P. C. Games I see these days. You should try 
 to get your hands on this, It's really worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nodham
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 6, 2006 6:32 am PT
Review:  The world has gone bad, really bad. Imagine the world of Blade Runner and add a few extra years 
 of degeneration and class struggle and you'll get Messiah's universe. A moloch of grinding gears, 
 hissing steam, dank sewers, flashing neon signs and flowing blood. 
  This prompts The Man Above to send a small diapered angel, Bob, down to Earth to determine the 
 damage and whether salvation is even possible. You take control of the cute little winged toddler 
 and attempt to guide him through the dangerous world. Where Messiah differs greatly from other 
 games is that your enemies, friends, and energy packs are all one and the same item. Bob must take 
 control of characters in order to manipulate certain items or defend himself from attack, as most 
 will fire on him the moment they see him (hey, it's an evil world) . This is done by 'jumping into' 
 them, and depending on the difficulty setting this can be only possible from certain angles. For 
 your own sanity I suggest playing it in easy, as the game isn't a walk in the park to start with. 
 
  Although Bob is an angel, you can use human characters in any way you see fit, such as attacking 
 soldiers with other soldiers or dropping a scientist into a radioactive pool, and it's this 'freedom' 
 that makes the game intriguing. You're not a muscular superhero but a little baby and must 'use' 
 the humans around you tactically to survive, switching host bodies as needed and even hopping into 
 a bystander for an evil energy boost (Bob will sap a host's energy to top up his own) . Certain 
 characters despise others, so you may find yourself wandering into a nest of pain if you forget 
 to change disguises, which adds another level to your choice. Unfortunately there are certain areas 
 where you will be always be attacked, even if you are in the 'right' disguise and no one saw you 
 switch bodies (enemies will attack their friends if they see Bob taking them over) . On the other 
 hand, some areas can be skipped completely (battle-wise) if you're dressed correctly. You'll probably 
 get a rush the first time you realize you've possessed a rat or 'dispose' of a body, screaming, 
 off a platform.
  Messiah also features some jumping puzzles which aren't usually too difficult, but one or two may 
 have you checking a walkthrough to make sure it's possible to reach the platform all signs point 
 to. 
  Messiah also isn't very interesting in the story department. While the plot does evolve somewhat 
 in parts, the game has a feeling of serendipity about it. Bob ambles along through area after area 
 with no real goal and somehow it all leads where it should. At one point even the main enemy mocks 
 you and is surprised when Bob finds a way onward, as the player will probably be. The ending is, 
 unfortunately, nonexistant, but at least the final battle is suitably climactic and interesting 
 (unlike the mini-boss, who gets offed in a cutscene) .
  The levels are nicely varied and give a real sense of scale. You'll feel as little as your character 
 is when you're flapping along the edge of some towering buildings. Some crash bugs do appear, unfortunately, 
 and the gameplay may not be everyone's cup of tea.
  It's Messiah's originality that is its saving grace. You've probably played endless games set in 
 'a dark future' but Messiah's gameplay twist merits your attention. It's not easy, but it's such 
 evil (ironically) fun that it's worth a try at least. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
