-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Metal Gear Solid
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/metalgearsolid/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct  2, 2000
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.4
Critic Score: 8.5, 19 Review (s)
User Score: 9.0, 1,399 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Konami
Genre: Modern Action Adventure
Date:     Sep 24, 2000
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Metal Gear Solid for the PC is an effective if straightforward conversion of one of the greatest 
 action games for the Sony PlayStation console. 

 Metal Gear Solid for the PC is an effective if straightforward conversion of one of the greatest 
 action games for the Sony PlayStation console. It's an innovative game that, while originally designed 
 exclusively for the PlayStation, is still highly playable on the PC, thanks largely to the quality 
 of the Microsoft translation. While the PC version of Metal Gear Solid doesn't improve much on 
 the 1998 PlayStation game, it does have a few features that take advantage of the PC's more powerful 
 hardware.   

  Metal Gear Solid is a fast-paced cinematic action game in which you control a government super 
 spy - code-named Solid Snake - who's highly trained in stealth, infiltration, and armed and unarmed 
 combat. He's sent alone to a secret base in Alaska to stop a group of genetically enhanced terrorists 
 who are planning to blackmail the US government. They've hijacked a prototype weapon called Metal 
 Gear, which is reportedly equipped to deliver a nuclear strike anywhere in the world. The game's 
 plot and characters are exaggerated, but they're very well written and highly memorable. In fact, 
 nearly half of Metal Gear Solid consists of noninteractive story sequences in which Snake uncovers 
 the full extent of what's at stake in his covert mission.   

  The story unravels partly through dialogue between Snake and his team back at base. Snake has a 
 tiny transceiver built into his ear, which he can use to receive informative calls from a staff 
 of specialists and send transmissions himself. These conversations switch the game to a static 
 screen that uses voice-over and hand-drawn, animated portraits that break from the game's otherwise 
 fully 3D graphics. The switch can seem abrupt, but the conversations are generally interesting 
 and actually an effective means of expanding the story, as well as providing a persistent hint 
 system; you can always call home to get advice on your situation, even in the middle of a battle. 
 The story of Metal Gear Solid is also revealed through cutscenes using the game's 3D engine. Many 
 of these sequences feature great cinematography, and although the game's 3D characters aren't very 
 detailed - most notably, their facial features are blurred and aren't animated - the motion-captured 
 cinematics are nonetheless superlative even by the latest standards.   

  These sequences are often long, and many of them intersperse the many different types of action 
 scenes in Metal Gear Solid. In most cases, you'll be infiltrating areas that are being patrolled 
 by guards and monitored with surveillance cameras. You control Snake from a top-down perspective, 
 although you can switch to a first-person view at will, and if you back against a wall, the camera 
 will automatically tilt to give you a peek down the perpendicular corridor. The Alaskan base is 
 heavily defended, but fortunately, you have a radar that shows any enemies in the immediate area. 
 Using this device, you can more easily observe your enemies' patrol routes and evade them, as well 
 as sneak past cameras as they pan back and forth. Of course, you're not limited to just sneaking 
 past your foes. Over the course of the game, you'll find a number of real-world weapons, including 
 various guns and explosives. In addition, Snake can knock his foes flat with a karate combination 
 or a hip toss, and he can even sneak up and strangle an unassuming guard. If Snake's ever detected, 
 an alarm will sound, armed guards will swarm toward his position, and his radar will go offline 
 because of all the commotion. At this point, you'll need to run and hide until the alarm shuts 
 down and the guards return to their patrols.   

  It's not realistic that the guards effectively forget that you're in the area after about a minute, 
 but Metal Gear Solid doesn't purport to be a highly realistic combat simulation. In fact, it draws 
 on a number of classic video game conventions that are intended to make its gameplay more enjoyable. 
 For instance, enemy guards you kill flicker and disappear, and you'll find spinning power-ups throughout 
 the base - weapons, ammunition, and rations that instantly replenish your health. Snake can suffer 
 a superhuman amount of damage before he dies, and likewise, the many exciting one-on-one battles 
 between Snake and the game's main villains are drawn out, as Snake's terrorist foes can sustain 
 even more damage than he can. As such, Metal Gear Solid might take some getting used to. It looks 
 and sounds realistic, yet the gameplay demands that you suspend disbelief. You might also be put 
 off by some of the game's sometimes long-winded antinuclear sentiment; on the occasions when characters 
 in Metal Gear Solid start moralizing, the game can seem heavy-handed and preachy.    

 Yet Metal Gear Solid's gameplay is so diverse and the action is generally so good that any perceived 
 problems with the plot or the lack of realism would more likely be the subject of debate between 
 fans than a detriment to your enjoyment of the game. There's so much variety - not only can you 
 choose to progress through sequences using different types of tactics, but the situations themselves 
 are also very different. One moment you might be using your cigarette smoke to reveal infrared 
 trip wires protecting a weapons cache, and soon after, you'll be squaring off against a main battle 
 tank. Later, you'll sneak through a highly volatile area in which you can't risk firing your guns, 
 you'll face a deadly sniper, and you'll rappel off the side of a communications tower that's under 
 attack. All the while, Metal Gear Solid features an outstanding, intense soundtrack (straight from 
 the PlayStation version) that corresponds with the changes in the action, as well as equally good 
 voice work for all the game's characters. The voice performances occasionally seem forced, but 
 they work well in the context of the over-the-top action scenes.   

  Despite all this, Metal Gear Solid is actually a rather short game. It'll probably take you about 
 ten hours to finish all the way through, and if you skipped all the cinematics the second time, 
 you could probably finish it in one sitting. This isn't necessarily a flaw. Metal Gear Solid deliberately 
 has the pacing of a good action film, so the fact that it's relatively short probably won't disappoint 
 you. Instead, Metal Gear Solid encourages you to play it through more than once, not only because 
 it has two different endings, but also because many of its situations can be played through in 
 different ways. The game also has multiple difficulty settings, the easiest of which lets you play 
 through the game with an automatic rifle and unlimited ammo, while the hardest makes Snake much 
 more vulnerable and disables his radar. You'll doubtless want to try these variations.   

  The PC version of Metal Gear Solid is one of the better console ports to date. It supports high 
 resolutions, lets you save the game at any time, and even includes an option to play the game from 
 a first-person perspective (on the PlayStation, you could only use the first-person mode to look 
 around) . Furthermore, Metal Gear Solid for the PC is actually a conversion of Metal Gear Solid 
 Integral, a later Japanese release that combined the original game with the VR Missions supplement, 
 which comprises a number of fast-paced trials that let Snake hone his stealth and weapons skills 
 in a holographic training arena. VR Missions, which was first released as a separate PlayStation 
 game, lacks the original Metal Gear Solid's cohesive story, but it makes for a fun and often amusing 
 action/puzzle game in its own right. Also, it's convenient that the dozens of different missions 
 - including those in which you get to play as the enigmatic sword-wielding bionic soldier from 
 the main game - are all immediately available on the PC, whereas you had to unlock many of the 
 missions on the PlayStation. Metal Gear Solid for the PC even includes a questionable mode in which 
 you simply take snapshots of highly detailed 3D models of your female associates - but Snake is 
 a ladies man much like James Bond, so at least this mode isn't totally out of context.   

  Like many console-to-PC ports, Metal Gear Solid does have some problems. Since it's based on a 
 two-year-old PlayStation game, its graphics aren't up to the highest standards, even though the 
 graphics have stood the test of time quite well. Also, those who've seen the PlayStation version 
 might notice that the motion-blur effect used in the cinematics appears to be missing in the PC 
 translation. And the original PlayStation game featured several innovative sequences that took 
 advantage of the hardware particular to the console. These details - such as when one of the terrorists, 
 a powerful psychic, uses memory card data to effectively read Snake's mind - are simply omitted 
 from the PC version.   

  But otherwise, if you haven't played the game before, then Metal Gear Solid for the PC is currently 
 the best way to experience it. It controls very well using a six- or eight-button gamepad, and 
 it's also highly playable using just the default keyboard configuration. The game features an interesting 
 cast of characters and an exciting story that's filled with surprises. Yet though the story sequences 
 certainly make the game more memorable, it's the great action scenes that make Metal Gear Solid 
 so much fun. It's one of the best PlayStation games of all time, so if you're not familiar with 
 the original, or even if you're a fan who wants to play the complete Metal Gear Solid in higher 
 resolution, then you should definitely try Metal Gear Solid for the PC.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (20 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Furnish
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 24, 2009 8:34 am PT
Review:  One of the most greatest Action game you can possible buy, the compelling story can be mesmering 
 due to its wonderful blend with game-play. 
  The player must navigate the protagonist, Solid Snake, through the game's areas without being detected 
 by enemies. Detection is triggered by the player moving into an enemy's field of vision and sets 
 off an alarm that draws armed enemies to his location. This also triggers "alert mode" and the player 
 must then hide and remain undetected, at which point "evasion mode" begins and once the counter 
 reaches zero the game returns to "infiltration mode" where enemies are not suspicious of Snake's 
 presence. The radar cannot be used in alert or evasion mode.
  
  To remain undetected, the player can perform techniques which make use of Solid Snake's abilities 
 and the environment, such as crawling under objects, using boxes as cover, ducking or hiding around 
 walls, and making noise to distract enemies. These are carried out using the third-person camera; 
 which often changes its angle to give the player the best view of the area possible, and an on-screen 
 radar, which displays enemies and their field of vision. Snake can also make use of many items 
 and gadgets, such as infra-red goggles or a cardboard box disguise. The emphasis on stealth promotes 
 a less violent form of gameplay, as fights against large groups of enemies will often result in 
 serious damage for the player.
  
  To unpack the amazing story, you have to play the game yourself/
  
  Intermixed with the player's 
 progress are cut scenes and codec conversations as well as encounters with bosses. To progress, 
 players must discover the weaknesses of each boss to defeat them. Game controls and play strategies 
 can also be accessed via the Codec radio, where advice is delivered from Snake's support team; 
 for example, the support team may chastise Snake for not saving his progress often enough, or explain 
 his combat moves in terms of which buttons to press on the gamepad. The Codec is also used to provide 
 exposition on the game's backstory. Completion of the title provides the player with a statistical 
 summary of their performance, and a "code name" based upon it, typically the name of a common animal.
 
  
  In a first for the Metal Gear series, a training mode is available in which players can practice 
 hiding techniques, weapons use, and sneaking. In addition to the stealth gameplay, there are set 
 piece sequences that entail firefights between the player and enemies from the third-person and 
 first-person perspectives. [16]
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingLim
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 29, 2008 11:15 pm PT
Review:  I was never too keen on the spy espionage genre until Metal Gear Solid made its way into my home 
 PC. I played it at a time when MGS is already an established household name in the gaming world 
 and boy, the fans were right all along. It's that good. The movie-worthy story and the complex 
 characters formed the stronghold of this game which further paved the glory path for MGS4.
  
  You will love the characters of the MGS world as you play this first title of the series, some 
 due to their dynamic onscreen persona, and some due to pure charisma, namely Solid Snake. He's 
 one dude that Wolverine would play poker with. Ironically, the game also sometimes makes fun of 
 the characters themselves by allowing the "4th wall" phenomena, which means... they realise they're 
 in a video game. It's really hilarious.
  
  If you're new to the genre, perhaps you would find it a little on the hard side especially when 
 it's converted from the console format. The controls are quite difficult without some exploring 
 and getting used to. But if you can get the hang of it, be prepared for a fun-filled spy adventure 
 that prompts stealth over blind fire-fights. This title is actually quite rare now even for the 
 console version, so you may want to get hold of its graphic novel and play MGS 2 onwards instead 
 if you're still keen.
  
  KingLim 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LauLS
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 10, 2007 4:38 am PT
Review:  This game is "Magnificent!!!!!!" right from the start. I enjoyed every moment of the game.
  
  This was the first stealth game I played, after that, I tried Splinter Cell, but it did not 
 give me the satisfaction and thrilled that Metal Gear Solid did.
  
  The game play is good; trying to sneak behind slowing and carefully and kill your enemies was always 
 fun and exciting. Besides that, always walked cautiously, hoping I did not run to any enemies is 
 funny. Yes, funny. This game is so serious but in some part of the game, I found some hilarious 
 stuff that I could not stop laughing.
  
  The character "Solid Snake" is cool and mysterious. It makes me always want to know more about 
 him. Try to figure out what kind of guy he is and his history. The story does well to slowing explain 
 his past and what he did.
  
  How I interacted with the NPCs was an amazing and heartwarming. I never felt alone in the game. 
 They kept talking to me and sometimes gave me tips to overcome some difficulties. 
  
  All the boss fight in the game is superb and exciting. Every time I met a boss, I was so excited 
 but frustrated because the boss fights are very challenging. I needed to take some time and thought 
 of how to fight the boss and his/her weakness. Once I successfully kill them, I felt like I was 
 "Solid Snake". I mean I felt proud and satisfy that I was able to think "the way" to kill them.
 
  
  The story of the game is really fascinating from the start to the end. As I said before, I enjoyed 
 every moment of it. I wish I can tell you every part of the story but I know you will hate me for 
 giving spoilers. 
  This is a game that I think everyone must have because it is too good to be true. Enjoy the game!!!!
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BdoggRAY
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 28, 2007 3:52 pm PT
Review:  the begining of the greatest series ever _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
 _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
 _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
 _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
 _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
 _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
 _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
 _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: majesticcryx
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 4, 2007 3:19 pm PT
Review:  As a devout PlayStation guy back in my college days, I loved Metal Gear Solid. It was a great interactive 
 cinematic experience, with incredible in-engine cutscenes, and a storyline head and shoulders above 
 typical videogame fluff. Some would even say that Metal Gear Solid is to the PlayStation what Half-Life 
 is to the PC.
  
  In Metal Gear Solid you take on the role of Solid Snake, a special forces operative brought out 
 of retirement to resolve a terrorist situation in Alaska. It appears that an elite group of Next 
 Generation Special Forces has taken over a nuclear weapons depot and plan on popping off nukes 
 if the U. S. doesn't give in to their demands. These soldiers-gone-bad are a collection of eccentric 
 and specialized commandos, each with their own weird names. There's Sniper Wolf, a deadly and beautiful 
 marksman; Vulcan Raven, a guy that carries a massive vulcan mini-cannon strapped to his back; Revolver 
 Ocelot, master of the quick draw, and many more. Your job is to infiltrate the facility and take 
 them down.
  
  The story unfolds through a mix of in-engine cutscenes brimming with Hollywood production values, 
 audio dialogue through your Codec (a communicator built into your ear) , and a tiny bit of full-motion-video. 
 Most of the game is played from an overhead perspective (with the exceptions of when you're using 
 binoculars, using the Look button to scope out an area, or sniping) . Control is best with a gamepad, 
 though is a bit sensitive in first-person mode, making aiming cumbersome.
  
  Metal Gear Solid is a sneaker at heart. While you will find yourself in wild firefights, most of 
 your is spent time avoiding the enemy. To make things easier, a personal radar system tells you 
 where the guards are and what their cone of vision is. You'll need it, because these guards aren't 
 duds. They follow footprints, hear you when you step in puddles, and even see your breath in the 
 cold.
  
  However, there will be times when detection is unavoidable. In these situations Snake can punch 
 out guards or even grab them and break their necks. As you get farther in the game, you'll eventually 
 scrounge up an impressive arsenal, including remote-controlled missiles, assault rifles, and even 
 claymore landmines. Trust me, you'll need every bit of it.
  
  About 99 percent of the PlayStation game is intact, and a few extras have been thrown in. First 
 off, if you start a game on the very easy setting, you'll have a silenced MP5 with unlimited ammo 
 in your inventory right off the bat. You'll also be able to play in high-res mode. Sadly, Microsoft 
 didn't add any more polygons, or bump up the texture resolution (at least not in any noticeable 
 way) . As a result, some characters are blocky, and the textures look stretched out. There's no 
 force feedback support, either, as with the console game.
  
  Thankfully, some of great console touches have been recreated. For example, there's a certain boss 
 who can read your mind. In the PlayStation version, to beat him you had to unplug your controller 
 and put it into the second slot. Then you were able to hurt the boss because he could no long read 
 your mind. This was translated perfectly to the PC without the need to unplug your controller. 
 I won't give away the secret, but I must applaud Microsoft on a job well done.
  
  In all, this is an excellent port. But what kind of score does an aging PlayStation blockbuster 
 deserve on the PC? It's hard to say. Personally, I enjoyed it very much, but then again, I'm a 
 console owner so I know what to expect. I can easily see hardcore PC owners scoffing at Metal Gear 
 Solid, but if anyone is willing to put up with console-style gameplay (floating power-ups and all) 
 in return for a fun and entertaining ride, Metal Gear Solid is worth the time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scarface_u2
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 30, 2007 10:55 pm PT
Review:  This is a must have game 1st realesed on PS1 many years ago, it was fully ported too the PC eventually 
 an as with games of pure quality in 2007 it still stands out In a world of size no substance games 
 of today average 8GB's this game at under 1GB still puts them too shame The story begins where 
 you are talked into returning to a former employer
  as your the Best of the Best in your field an your invaluble too this mission
  
  you can view 
 intel videos an read intel texts on your Foes an also your adviserors.
  
  Then you will be taken to your destination in a ...........
  
  Just play it and find out if 
 this is 1st time you have played this game an i helped in away!!! you can thank me later lol
  
  If like alot of the gaming community you have played this game an still give it a play every 
 now an then just to challenge Raven an Ocelott again who could blame you.
  
  In a gaming world of very little inspireing this is a true Beakon of what Dedicated developers 
 can do.
  
  also id like to mention the Sublime team's at Bethesda and Rockstar who picked up the baton games 
 like MGS an Goldeneye (N-64) had passed on!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skojic
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 14, 2007 4:00 pm PT
Review:  Set after the events of the previous Metal Gear entries and introducing new characters while keeping 
 some old ones like Roy Campbell and Gray Fox- the first in the Metal Gear Solid entries is a classic 
 to behold. The story follows Solid Snake who is sent to infiltrate a base of operations named Shadow 
 Moses to destroy a new type of Metal Gear- Metal Gear REX. With unique new characters to the series 
 such as Revolver Ocelot and Liquid Snake, and introducing an all-new cyborg-ninja version of Gray 
 Fox, the story immerses the player into the world of Metal Gear for yet another time. As family 
 fights family and mercenaries turn patriots - Metal Gear Solid starts off the brilliant series 
 that will span three sequels, including the upcoming game- Metal Gear Solid 4 : Guns of the Patriots. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StevenHawking
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 17, 2007 4:01 pm PT
Review:  Well, after having a small need to play the Metal Gear series over again, I installed this game 
 onto my computer again, and played away. Stepping into it after several years was quite refreshing, 
 but on to the actual review.
  
  In this stealth action game Kojima makes his first delve into the true stealth action game, and 
 does so quite successfully. When the player first begins, he or she is introduced to solid snake 
 scuba diving into a base in Alaska. On his mission he meets a cast of wonderful characters ranging 
 from the classic revolver ocelot, to the somewhat annoying ninja, all during epic cutscenes liberally 
 spread throughout the game (it seems like it was the time before Kojima decided to have story played 
 out mostly in cutscenes :D) . What I mean in the parentheses, is that you spend more time playing 
 and less time moving to one place and then watching 5 minutes of movies, for the most part ;) .
 
  
  Moving onto the graphics, they are very good (considering the playstation's capabilities) . There 
 are many nice little features to the game that can be picked up, such as the breath features, and 
 the footprints left in the snow and other such things. It is clear that every possible feature 
 was thought of in the game to make it as realistic as was possible. Everything is quite crisp and 
 clear, and does not disappoint! Every part of the game ran smoothly on my computer (and it probably 
 will with yours, as it is an older game) .
  
  The sound, oh, don't even get me started. The sound is awesome. Aside from minor sound glitches 
 here and there, it is flawless. One particular sound aspect is the voice acting. Characters seem 
 to have a true sense of reality with the supreme voice acting, making the story that much more 
 compelling, and forcing the player to continue to unravel it all. The weapons are all crisp and 
 clear, and don't sound too like the same thing. One thing that may get on some people's nerves, 
 is the music. Personally, I found the music to get slightly annoying after a while, but that's 
 only personal opinion, other's may find it completely tolerable, if not enjoyable (although I did 
 enjoy it at first) .
  
  For its gameplay, it's quite revolutionary for its time, and still today could hold it's own amongst 
 the plethora of stealth action games that have come out. although the enemies by today's standards 
 may be slightly dumber than normal, the game makes up for itself by making you regret being caught 
 at all. As staying with realism, when you get caught, unless you hide right away, you're dead. 
 It adds a good challenge of staying hidden, and exhilaration when you're spotted and need to hide. 
 However, one major downside to the game is the aiming. if you don't have the laser scope on your 
 pistol, or just when shooting your gun, you may lose a lot of ammo at first, as aiming is fairly 
 difficult. Luckily shooting is not one of the major aspects of the game, except in some boss fights. 
 Being converted to the computer seemed to make it a little less awkward, at least for me. In summary, 
 the game is very solid. Even in today's world of higher end game's it will succeed in not disappointing 
 fans of the stealth action genre and give the player a healthy challenge that will surely leave 
 the player coming back for more. Kojima seemed to have his sense of humor early on as he hides 
 little fun things throughout the game leaving players wanting to search around for them, such as 
 the policenauts poster in the room where you find otacon (policenauts was a japanese game that 
 kojima had made prior to MGS) . So, if you don't have this game yet, and have played any of the 
 other Metal Gear games, you NEED to purchase this game. NOW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: julioykaly
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 27, 2006 12:39 pm PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid for the PC reminds me back when I used to own Metal Gear Solid for the PlayStation 
 One back in 1998. This is the first video game I ever play that requires patience because of stealth 
 life missions. Yet even thought the game require patience the action was instance which require 
 very good skills of handling the controls whether the PS One controls or the computer keyboard 
 controls. Nice enough graphics for a PC game especially when it is set into high-resolution screen. 
 The voice acting, drama and plot are also superb according to my experience of video games in general 
 up to that point. Overall, this is a very good classic game that I would be over and over again 
 in a boring Sunday after noon, Metal Gear Solid eventually proves in my opinion that no matter 
 how old and back in the days graphics it has, you cant denied a good video game once you seen 
 one, and experience for yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andch17
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 19, 2006 11:10 pm PT
Review:  The MGS that came out for the Playstation in 1998 was one of the best games ever on the playstation. 
 Now the game that was considered by many to be the best game ever on the PS1 is now on the PC. 
 Although the graphics haven't improved that much, this is still a fantastic game and one that everybody 
 who hasn't played the original should play.
  
  MGS for the PC is a very solid game, the game offers a very good story and gameplay that is truely 
 unique. The gameplay is MGS is very good, it's not like most of the other games where if you get 
 detected you can just blow away your enemies. In MGS, its recommended that you stay out of sight, 
 an unrealistic thing about this game is that if you are caught but you escape. A minute later the 
 enemies will completly forget about you. I would be neat if they had a caution mode after you escape 
 from danger mode but they don't. Besides that, the gameplay in this game is really good. Although 
 the game's graphics haven't been updated since the original, this is still a pretty good looking 
 game. The character animations are sound and the characters all look great. Speaking of sound, 
 this is one of the best sounding games of there. The game's soundtrack is a masterpiece and the 
 voice acting in this game is a work of art. The game doesn't have that many new features except 
 this mode where you can take pics of Snakes women companies and advisors (Niamo, Mei Ling etc) . 
 
  
  Although this game was released 2 years after the original, it doesn't take away the fact that 
 this is one of the better games out there. Metal Gear Solid for the PC may be 2 years old but it's 
 one of the best ports to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: macsarmy
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 18, 2006 10:15 pm PT
Review:  played it one year after it was out, and i wish i would of gotten it sooner. it's one of those 
 games you need to brush up on your stealth attitude, because i am rusty, and late in writing this 
 review. being in a third person view was very interesting i normally don't work this way, but with 
 a little time and effort hmm not bad. the final battle on top of metal gear worked me over quite 
 a bit, due to being launched off the edge. it's a shame to battle the in-laws but i guess you gotta 
 do it. ( macsarmy) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NamanOWNSyou
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 12, 2006 1:32 pm PT
Review:  Cinematics - 10/10
  Graphics (for when it was made) - 10/10
  Gameplay - 10/10 (depends on your controller..., mine was MS Sidewinder) .
  Addictiveness - 9/10 
 
  Overall - 10/10
  
  Make sure you do NOT skip the cinematics/chats... that is what gets you into the game. It'll occupy 
 you for at least 15 hours... man, great game, period. 
  
  And yes, I have played (and beaten) Halo 1/2, HL2, Splinter Cell, etc... but MGS tops them.
  
 
  It's a SOLID MASTERPIECE. Solid Snake, snake!!!
  
  I can't get off this game without people telling me to. Now that I've beat it, I already have started 
 on MGS2, which I hope is just as good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vampiro_HuntT3R
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 5, 2006 7:15 am PT
Review:  I played it when a friend of mine told me about it, I didnt think it would be a good idea to buy 
 a game called "Metal Gear".. but I just bought it to have a look at my friends favorites, But when 
 I bought it, I like sticked with it and played it till I ended it for two times.
  It was good to see alternate endings, I first ended the game with the sad one but then I finished 
 it with a Happy ending. It was a very good game but I never had a chance to play other Metal Gear 
 games. I bought Metal Gear 3 snake eater but it doesnt work, I dont know what the hell is wrong 
 with it. Anyways, The game is a MasterPiece.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: meischris39
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 14, 2006 9:11 am PT
Review:  MGs1 is the sequel to the 2 metal gear games for the nes, it still maintains as much charm as the 
 orginials yet puts a new twist and dimension onto things. Mg games were loved for their ingenuity 
 diversity and what was a breath of fresh air into a world full of doom and goldeneye that was stealth, 
 MGS is no difference it still keeps up the good values of the previous games but advances it a 
 hell of a lot further.
  
  Story -
  
  As there is no story option for reviewing on gamespot, i decided to make my own especially for 
 this review.
  
  The story is as follows Old timer Solid Snake has to come out of retirement for last hitch at getting 
 rid of metal gear. Of course in true mgs fashion this is not the case, (not spoiling the story) 
 mgs has more plot curvs twists and hidden secrets than the body of a 100stone woman. Of course 
 this is not without its hitches, the story is slow to start with and could turn some gamers off, 
 its slowly goes uphill gaining more and more speed epicity and atmosphere. Overall Mgs has at least 
 5 hours worth of cutscenes which is a major achievement, in terms of cinematic direction, its damn 
 down revolutionary. THe cutscenes are wide and varied some of them reach lengths of 20 mins, most 
 are just informational but the ones especially towards the end that are just plain action are where 
 the game really shines and brings out its cinematic inspiration. Quite frankly metal gear solid 
 has one of the best storylines to date and not even Uri gellar can predict what will happen next. 
 
  
  Gameplay - 
  
  As far as gameplay goes mgs is quite realistic, specially flown in were military advisors who made 
 this game as close as possible to the real thing. The controls at times can be quite unresponsive 
 and sometimes confusing but for the most part there great. The basic movements are crawl stand 
 run press up agains wall, bang walls, this game basically has it all.
  The bosses are different and varied and at one point mgs really breaks the 4th wall and enters 
 a whole new dimension. Instead of just fighting a boss, the boss will talk to you as a person and 
 make you feel engaged, it has to be seen to be believed. No one should play this game without a 
 dual shock controller, the vibration effects are used frequently throughout the game and set tone 
 all the time, it reinforces the storyline and makes it a lot more epic. In terms of difficulty 
 mgs really hits the spot, some parts people may find quite challenging so what you do is give your 
 colonal a call and he will give you some subtle hints about where you have to go and what objectives 
 are awaiting to be completed. The shooting which is a major part of the game is handled moderately 
 with a top down 2 perspective, 3d would of made this game a lot more exciting and tense, we even 
 know the ps1 could of handled it as in some parts you get to use a sniper rifle with 1st person 
 perspective. The level designs are very well layed out, you can just enter a new room yet feel 
 you know your way around it without the game being to predictable. The characters are simply amazing, 
 each one with their own distinct personality and traits, that will leave you wanting more and more. 
 This game basically has it all a love interest kickass storyline, and die hard action what more 
 could anyone want.
  
  Graphics - 
  
  As far ps1 graphics go there arent many games on par with mgs, character models move fluidly, everything 
 is at a stable frame rate, and even character models are all different some are even recognisable 
 by face. This isn't to say its a beautiful game, oh no, mgs suffers greatly from grainy textures 
 that would seem fitting on a snes, and the faces well what to say aside from theres more polygons 
 on virtua fighter 1 faces than mgs. Aside from this you sort of forget about the graphics whilst 
 playing the game as character models and textures are improved by some beautiful lighting effects 
 make graphics seem capable. Very very occasionally the frame rate will drop a little when multiple, 
 enemies and objects are on the screen at once.
  
  Sound -
  
  Well what can i say apart from, simply perfect, this games sound could not have been any better 
 in my oppinion. The voice acting in which most of the game sets itself around is brilliant varied 
 voice actors who have put their all into a simply amazing game. The main composer Harry Gregson-Williams 
 who has worked on Shrek, Armageddon and the rock to name a few is simply amazing, it seems everyone 
 at Kojima Productions has put their heart and soul into making this game great. Background music 
 is epic , it sets the tone for the dark mood of secrets lies and deception. THe sound effects are 
 used very well creeping footsteps get louder and quiter depending on how hard you push the directional 
 button. Overall a amzing performance all i can say is crank it up up up!
  
  Value-
  
  For a 2 disk game MGS is moderately short game providing around 15 hours of gameplay, it is one 
 of those games whre you need to play it more than once sometimes more than 3 times before you really 
 get a grip on the storylines and know what your playing. Although the game is 15 hours if you take 
 away all of the cutscenes the first time through it will be only about 5 hours of pure raw gameplay 
 which is rather pathetic for a game that spans over 2 disks taking up 1.2gigs of storage. Aside 
 from the main game 12 vr missions are provided which is meant to be solid snakes training, although 
 very very basic at the heart these are rather entertaining, but you cant help feeling why they 
 have the same 12 missions on both disks, they easily could of spanned 24 over the 2 disks. Also 
 included is a mission briefing page which is basically the back story, it also includes the stories 
 for Metal gear 1+ 2 this is rather pointless though as it just destroys the heart and soul of 2 
 execellent games storylines.
  
  Overall an amazing performance that could of done wtih a couple more months in development
  
 
  The Sun Lolly King^
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Firozecool
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 11, 2006 1:49 am PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid is a fantastic game and it surely shouldn't be missed. ITs a fantastic game. The 
 story, the characters, are simply PERFECT!
  
  I first played this game's demo and when the demo ended I just couldn't control myself. I had to 
 play this game, and then almost half an year later I got to play the full version. 
  
  In the whole game there isn't a dull moment. Right from the beginning the game is fantastic. The 
 characters and all their moves and voices were perfectly superb! In the beginning when a video 
 comes in which the the main enemy of Snake is shown just from that moment seeing the graphics and 
 the voices and the actions I knew that this game would be a hit. And after I think almost 5 years 
 later this game is still a hit.
  
  The whole plot is that you (that means Snake) are assigned with a mission to go and stop a massive 
 nuclear weapon which can destroy the whole world in 1 minute. So you are a type of a spy in foreign 
 land with a mission to foil their nuclear effort. So you gradually get a huge collection of weapons 
 and not any weapons but powerful, disasterous ones. There's 
  also a unique weapon called 'Nikita' which is in fact a radio controlled missile launcher.
  
 
  All in all Metal Gear Solid is a great deal. You should surelygive it a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SZeroC
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 2, 2006 11:54 pm PT
Review:  Every once in a while, a game comes along that completely revolutionizes gaming itself. More often 
 than not, that game is a native PC game. Console titles are fine, don't get me wrong, but very 
 few of them are anything near revolutionary. I play games on virtually every platform, but it is 
 the PC titles that seem to keep my interest more.
  
  The consoles, in my opinion, are for sports and platform games. However, when Metal Gear Solid 
 was released on the PlayStation, I ignored my PC for weeks. It was the closest thing to an interactive 
 movie that I had ever seen, and it had pure gameplay unlike anything I had ever experienced. Now, 
 two years later, Metal Gear Solid has made its way to the PC, and I am sure the question on everyone's 
 mind is: Can it still be as great two years later? Absolutely.
  
  Unless you have spent the last two years stuck in the Himalayas, you've heard about Metal Gear 
 Solid. Almost five years in production, it is the third game in the Metal Gear series, and arguably 
 the best game ever made for the highly successful PlayStation platform. That's all well and good, 
 but I think we all know that the majority of PlayStation ports have been mediocre at best, so it 
 was with great trepidation that I installed Metal Gear Solid on my PC. My two main concerns were 
 1) The two year old PlayStation graphics couldn't possibly compete with today's PC games, and 2) 
 I didn't think there was any way the controls could work on a PC, even with a gamepad. I should 
 learn to not worry so much.
  
  If you are unfamiliar with Metal Gear Solid, I'll give you a little background. You are an ex-military 
 operative, basically kidnapped by your former commander to neutralize a hairy terrorist situation. 
 A group of your former co-workers have taken over a nuclear missile disposal facility, and unless 
 their demands are met, they will launch a nuclear weapon. Your mission is to infiltrate the site, 
 find a hostage, and find out whether or not the terrorists have the capability to do what they 
 are threatening.
  
  At the center of this situation is Metal Gear, a prototypical weapon capable of launching a nuclear 
 weapon from anywhere in the world. As Solid Snake, your character, you have had experience with 
 this weapon (the first two games in the series) and thus, you are the perfect op to handle this 
 mission. This is where you start from, and though you do follow a pretty linear plot, you do have 
 the freedom to handle the game the way you want, and your actions affect the ending. From a storyline 
 standpoint, Metal Gear Solid is as solid (pun intended) as any other game I have ever played.
 
  
  Metal Gear Solid bases its gameplay mainly around stealth. You enter the facility unarmed, and 
 genetically enhanced soldiers heavily outnumber you. If you want to rush in and go head to head 
 with the enemy, you'll spend a lot of time reloading saved games. Learn to sneak in and out of 
 areas avoiding as many confrontations as possible and you get the full Metal Gear Solid experience. 
 It is the stealth approach that really makes this game stand apart from anything else ever made.
 
  
  For the sake of this review, I think it is more important to focus on how well the game ports over 
 to the PC than to rate the game itself. Metal Gear Solid received rave reviews on the PlayStation. 
 I I don't think there is any question on whether or not it was a great console game in 1998. The 
 question is whether or not it is a great PC game in 2000.
  
  Graphically, Metal Gear Solid was superior to anything on the PlayStation when it was released. 
 Now, in a time when we are seeing great games like Deus Ex, Quake III and such, Metal Gear Solid 
 is at a disadvantage. The PlayStation had a staggering 2MB dedicated to 3D graphics. The new GeForce 
 and Voodoo cards have 64. As PC gamers, we are used to jaw dropping visuals. Microsoft was fully 
 aware of this when they took on the project of porting the game to the PC, and they did an excellent 
 job in the conversion. First off, the game supports hardware acceleration, and allows for screen 
 resolutions up to 1024x768. At this resolution, Metal Gear Solid looks fresh, and though it isn't 
 light years ahead of the PSX version, it certainly looks great. The lighting effects have also 
 been enhanced, so in no way are the dated graphics a hindrance to this game. In fact, I think they 
 are a plus, and I can't believe I am saying that.
  
  Because this is a tense game that requires your full attention and lighting fast reflexes, a substandard 
 control setup will just not work. Even on the PSX, the controls for Metal Gear Solid took a bit 
 of getting used to. The same applies for the PC version, but if you have a good gamepad (preferably 
 something like a Sidewinder) the controls feel exactly like the console version. I experimented 
 with a mouse/keyboard setup, trying for a full PC experience, but I'll tell you now, it just isn't 
 worth it. The game responds like a console game when it comes to control, and you'll waste a lot 
 of time trying to adapt the game to a PC-style setup. With a Sidewinder Gamepad Pro, it took me 
 about fifteen minutes to get the hang of things, and then it was like second nature. I almost felt 
 like I was playing a PlayStation. Everything is fully programmable as well, so you can configure 
 the controls until you find what's comfortable for you. Kudos to Microsoft for not messing with 
 the control interface. Though the control setup is something that might not be natural to PC gamers, 
 it works.
  
  The PC version of this game surpasses the console version in some key areas. One of these areas 
 is sound. Though the PlayStation version did boast Dolby Surround, not many people have their console 
 hooked up to such a system, so for the most part, you had to deal with whatever sort of sound your 
 TV delivered. PC sound systems have advanced greatly over the last few years, and if you have a 
 multi-speaker system hooked up to a good card (SB Live!, let's say) you'll be in for an aural treat. 
 The sound is immersive, and rivals some of the better PC games out today. There are plenty of good 
 PC titles whose sound is nothing compared to what Metal Gear Solid offers.
  
  Much of what made Metal Gear Solid great were the gimmicks that you needed to discover to get through 
 certain parts of the game. One of the cleverest was when you were fighting the psychic, Psycho 
 Mantis, and had to plug your controller into the other port to prevent him from reading your mind 
 and not figure out your moves. Most computers have only one joystick port, so doing this in the 
 PC version is nearly impossible. That doesn't mean such things are omitted. I won't spoil this 
 part for you, but I'll tell you this; the PC version handles this, and other similar situations 
 just fine.
  
  When a console game comes out that is a widespread success, there is no doubt the game will be 
 ported to the PC. Us PC gamers generally shy away from such titles, mainly because we are used 
 to PC-style controls and save features. There is no argument that a game like Final Fantasy VII 
 was a superb game, but something was lost when it was ported to the PC. I personally don't want 
 to have to deal with a game that has limited save zones and mediocre graphics. I didn't buy an 
 expensive computer with a huge hard drive and fast video card for such games. That's what I bought 
 a PlayStation for.
  
  I think Microsoft was aware of this, because they addressed almost everything that would turn off 
 PC players in this port. You can save at any point in the game, and as I said earlier, the graphics 
 are certainly acceptable when compared to today's PC titles. If a PC player who had never heard 
 of Metal Gear Solid before bought this game and fired it up on their PC, they would rave about 
 it. Unless someone told them it was a PSX conversion, they would never notice it. On top of that, 
 the PC version offers a first-person mode not available in the console version, a few more cut 
 scenes, better graphics, and the VR missions which came out as a separate game for the PSX. If 
 there were a PSX to PC Port Hall of Fame, this game would be an inductee.
  
  I'm sure there are some people who won't enjoy this game. They are probably the people who bought 
 the 100 or so copies of Paintbrawl or Dominion and enjoyed them. Though it took too long to bring 
 this game to the PC, it is finally here, and Microsoft made this into a PC game for PC gamers. 
 With the addition of some features, substantial improvements to the sound and graphics, and the 
 inclusion of the VR Missions (no, they are not spectacular, but they cost PSX gamers an extra 30 
 bucks) this is as complete a game as you will ever play.
  
  What you have here is a game that grips you from the beginning and never lets go. From start to 
 finish, you experience movie-style plot transitions, excellent cut scenes, and gameplay as intense 
 as anything to date. This is the sort of game that you think about even when you are not playing 
 it.
  
  It will excite you, frustrate you, and offer you more gaming bang for your buck than you have ever 
 received. You'll deal with double-crossing, romance, near-impossible situations, and just about 
 anything else a game can deliver. If you played the PlayStation version and are curious about whether 
 or not you will enjoy the PC version, all I can tell you is to go out now and buy it. Even if you 
 don't have a gamepad, the game is worth the price of buying one. If you have never played this 
 game before, I envy you. You are in for possibly the best gaming experience to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zeke_Link
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 25, 2005 2:57 pm PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid was first released on the PS1 in 1998 and later hit the PC in 2000. It literally 
 created the stealth genre and has a big hit. I never actually got around to playing Metal Gear 
 Solid. But with all of the Metal Gear Solid 4 information and videos I have decided to have a shot 
 at the Metal Gear Solid series. I must say Metal Gear Solid is definetely one of the best games 
 I've ever played.
  
  The gameplay is near perfect and gives you a real sense of stealth. There are loads of hidden items 
 which prove useful throughout the game. I just hoped there were some more weapons in the game. 
 On the first playthrough the game will last you about 14 hours if you take time to get some hidden 
 items. I'd suggest playing on Normal because Easy and Very Easy are just too easy and Hard and 
 Extreme are a bit too hard because you have no radar. There are two endings to the game and each 
 rewards you with a super powerful item that you can use in the next playthrough, one grants you 
 infinite ammunition and the other grants you invisibility to all enemies, lasers, surveillance 
 cameras, etc (Not bosses though) . For this I'd suggest going through the game atleast twice, and 
 on the third playthrough you have a new costume and so does one of your 'friends'. The long complex 
 storyline with numerous plot twists is one of the best I have ever experienced, I was compelled 
 by the storyline and many of the twists surprised me. This is strange seeing as it's not even an 
 RPG game. The game is so graphically powerful for the PS1 you will only see three enemies on screen 
 at a time! The voice acting is top notch and so is the music. Also at the end of each playthrough 
 you get a rank. Big Boss is the highest snd requires you to beat the game in under 2:30 hours, 
 not die once, use no healing items, kill less than twenty-five people and not ever be seen (Unless 
 it's scripted) . I personally haven't got the Big Boss rank yet.
  
  So if you haven't played Metal Gear Solid go get a PS1/PS2 and play it! I can guarantee you'll 
 love it. Final Verdict: 9.7 SUPERB 
::::::

::::::
UserName: squeekikleen
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 22, 2005 1:52 am PT
Review:  Metal Gear Solid for the PC in some ways is better than the PS version and in other ways worse. 
 Overall, it is as exciting an experience as the latter and should be played if you didnt get a 
 chance to try it on the Playstation.
  
  The main story mode is not very long, and has many well directed cut-scenes that fill in the narrative. 
 I must add that Metal Gear Solid has one of the most engrossing plots ever to be conceived in a 
 video game, and is excellently executed  it has an over-the-top feel throughout the game. The 
 main character Solid Snake, is also an extremely memorable protagonist. In between the lengthy 
 cut-scenes, you play a top-down perspective style of gameplay that emphasises stealth rather than 
 all out force. You must use boxes, crates, and wits in order to avoid patrolling guards, cameras 
 and various traps and alarms. The gameplay does, however, sport a more arcade approach in terms 
 of disappearing enemies, enemy AI, boss battles etc.
  
  As for the port itself, Metal Gear Solid for the PC is done well. The resolution has been increased, 
 and the controls handle well  I recommend investing in a gamepad though. The bonus of the PC version 
 is that you get the full version with all the VR missions (the PS version sold them separately) , 
 and you can play in first-person. The downside is that certain graphical (and other various) effects 
 seem to be absent in the PC version, and in some cases, it makes the game look worse than the consoles 
 version. They should have spent more time dealing with this. On the other hand, it is still an 
 excellent game (one of the best in my opinion) and bears the franchise of the pioneer in stealth 
 gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arathin
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 4, 2005 8:40 am PT
Review:  There are few games that mark their place in history. This is one of the few exceptions. By todays 
 standards, this game seems a bit old-school, but this is what began the Metal Gear Solid legacy.
 
  
  From the moment you begin this epic game, you are thrust into the position of a genetically enhanced 
 soldier; Solid Snake. Snake was created by genetic science, and is a clone of his forefather, Big 
 Boss. Along with two other clones, Snake must fight to sever the bond between himself and his brothers.
 
  
  This game features a unique system, adequately designed to suit the genre of the game. When controlling 
 Snake, the player must avoid confontation with guards spotted around each area by hiding up against 
 walls, crouching, travelling through ventilation shafts and the like. If the guards spot you, an 
 alarm is sounded, and more guards enter the area. Snake can aquire a large variety of weapons to 
 keep himself safe from harm. 
  
  The music, for it's time, is very well pieced together. It creates a sense of tension, adding to 
 the atmosphere of the game. Although it can get a little repetitive at times, you'll find it grows 
 on you and helps you enjoy the many other aspects of the game.
  
  Could this game get any better, you ask? Well yes, it can. Once the game has been completed, there 
 are plenty of unlockables to... unlock. 
  
  Metal Gear Solid is an instant classic. This game brings to life what has never before seen in 
 a video game. If you're looking for a classic Playstation game, this is the one to buy. A masterpiece. 
 Pure masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GDIguy103
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 6, 2003 10:27 am PT
Review:  I've been an avid PC gamer ever since I got my paws on a computer and I should have post this review 
 much earlier. Metal Gear Solid is one of those games that any fan of gaming in general should play, 
 it's a defining achievement in gaming and really set the bar for everything else that has come 
 before it. I should just shut up about all of the things I've just said since it has been noted 
 before and contiune onto my personal views of the game itself.
  
  I played this game back in the day when it first came out for the PC in 2000 the original came 
 out in 1998 of course. The gameplay generally works well, although it's rough in a few spots everything 
 falls together nicely making it a glorified version of hide-and-go-seek. The reason I didn't give 
 a higher score for the gameplay is that shooting in first person view mode is not permissible! 
 That makes accurate shots with the fa-mas or the socom (mk. 23 assault pistols rock!) rather difficult 
 and clunky. The designers fixed this in Metal Gear Solid 2, which I will play on the PC later this 
 summer as soon as summer quarter finishes. The gameplay would have taken a plunge down to an 8 
 or a 7, but I had a 10 buttun USB gamepad lying around and that improved the gameplay immensely.
 
  
  The original version of the game was simply too damn short, although I liked the idea of an interactive 
 movie, I didn't mean having the game consist of half in-game fmvs... the gameplay itself was good, 
 but fortunately the inclusion of the VR missions disc shot up the value of the game making it very 
 enjoyable. There are so many good things about this game from the impressive sound effects, to 
 the entertaining voice acting, and the music that fit the mood of the game. Graphics aren't much 
 to talk about, although clean and serves it purpose it didn't wow me back in 1998 (come on we had 
 Half-life for the PC!!!) , it still doesn't, but it's functional and that's all that matters.
  
  All in all an excellent game worth of any gamer's time and one product that has stood the test 
 of time. I also have to get Metal Gear Solid: The Twin Snakes for my gamecube. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
