-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Metal Gear Solid 2: Substance
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/metalgearsolid2substance/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr 10, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.8
Critic Score: 8.2, 11 Review (s)
User Score: 8.8, 1,261 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Konami
Developer: KCEJ
Genre: Modern Action Adventure
Date:     Mar 27, 2003
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This is such an unusual, intriguing, and shocking action game that despite the rough translation, 
 it still makes for a one-of-a-kind experience on the PC. 

  Clean out your hard drive and dust off your gamepad for Metal Gear Solid 2: Substance, which you 
 could easily tell originated on consoles if you didn't know it already. In fact, this game bears 
 the dubious distinction of not just being a port of a console game, but a  port  of a port of a 
 console game. Originally, Metal Gear Solid 2: Sons of Liberty, a critically acclaimed espionage 
 thriller for the PlayStation 2, was released in 2001, and it was then ported to the Xbox last year 
 with a new name and some new features. Now the Xbox version is available for the PC, and it requires 
 a DVD-ROM drive along with a whopping 3.9GB of hard disk space, and that's for the minimum install. 
 Plus, the default keyboard-and-mouse controls are practically unusable, so a gamepad with at least 
 10 buttons is more or less required. And no one bothered to remove the specific references to the 
 Xbox control scheme from the game or the manual. So it's fair to say that MGS2: Substance could 
 have been ported over a lot more gracefully. Yet this is such an unusual, intriguing, and shocking 
 game that despite the rough translation, it still makes for a one-of-a-kind experience on the PC. 

          MGS2 begins with Solid Snake infiltrating a heavily guarded oil tanker carrying some very 
 dangerous cargo.     

  In 2001, the release of Metal Gear Solid 2: Sons of Liberty was gaming's equivalent of the premiere 
 of a huge Hollywood blockbuster. Anticipation for the game had grown extraordinarily high, both 
 because it was a sequel to what's regarded as one of the best PlayStation games ever made, and 
 also because a number of dazzlingly produced teaser trailers did an incredible job of whetting 
 gamers' appetites for Metal Gear Solid 2's story and gameplay. People just couldn't wait to once 
 again reprise the role of secret agent Solid Snake and infiltrate heavily defended enemy compounds 
 using a combination of stealth and force, uncovering untold military secrets in the process. Upon 
 the game's release, it met with glowing reviews from critics and was hailed as a superlative successor 
 to its namesake -- and yet players were shocked to find that Metal Gear Solid 2 turned out to have 
 a huge twist: The main character in fact wasn't the coolheaded Solid Snake, but an entirely new 
 character, an inexperienced young soldier called Raiden -- a Luke Skywalker to Solid Snake's Han 
 Solo.  

  This later caused a backlash among legions of Metal Gear fans, many of whom felt like MGS2 was 
 a big slap in the face. So, at any rate, MGS2: Substance lets you experience one of the most talked-about 
 video games ever made, since the core of the game is a straight port of the PlayStation 2 release. 
 It assumes you have some experience with the original Metal Gear Solid (which was ported to the 
 PC in 2000) , though the storyline promises to bewilder you no matter how familiar with the characters 
 and setting you are. Substance also throws in a number of additional features, most notably a series 
 of no fewer than 500 so-called VR training missions that let you explore the nuances of MGS2's 
 first-person and third-person action without all the cinematic trappings. For a single-player-only 
 game, it packs in a lot of value.  

  The core game consists of two parts, the first being a relatively short sequence in which you play 
 as Solid Snake, and the second being the main portion, in which you play as Raiden. Very story-driven 
 and mostly linear, MGS2 is by all means a cinematic game, one that you simply sit back and watch 
 almost as often as you actually play. Much of the story unfolds via one-on-one conversations between 
 the game's main characters using a communications device called a codec. Here you just see a green-tinted 
 screen with close-ups of the speaking characters' faces, and you listen to (or read) what they 
 have to say. At other times, Metal Gear Solid 2 presents some extremely impressive noninteractive 
 cutscenes using the game's 3D engine, which look like something out of a big-budget action movie, 
 only with video game characters instead of real people. These of course are much more interesting 
 than the codec sequences, although the game's story does remain engaging if you're willing to keep 
 up with it through a few very strange plot twists and put up with some occasionally bad and always 
 long-winded dialogue.  

          The game is filled with dramatic, expertly directed cinematic cutscenes.     

  The 
 actual gameplay involves lots of things: sneaking around, exploring, shooting with a variety of 
 different real-world weapons, going toe-to-toe with some interesting and challenging bosses, and 
 numerous other small but clever elements. The action appears highly realistic -- some surprisingly 
 lifelike enemy behavior, outstanding animation, and lots of little details make Metal Gear Solid 
 2 one of the closest computer game approximations to superspydom ever. But at its heart, Metal 
 Gear Solid 2 is still an action game, and the game's designers, with tongue in cheek, borrowed 
 a few classical video gaming conventions: For example, at the normal difficulty setting, you can 
 withstand an inordinate amount of gunfire before finally perishing. You can instantly restore your 
 health just by eating rations. Guards are curiously nearsighted, unable to detect you if you stand 
 about 30 feet away, and strangely deaf, unable to hear you running full speed ahead. On the other 
 hand, the game's authentic touches, such as how depleted ammunition magazines can be thrown to 
 distract enemy guards, or how Snake can use cigarette smoke to reveal infrared tripwires, can be 
 really impressive. Even so, Metal Gear Solid 2 isn't exactly a simulation of being a secret agent, 
 so those looking for a more believable spy game would be better off with the recent Tom Clancy's 
 Splinter Cell.  

  The controls of MGS2: Substance will take some getting used to, and you shouldn't even bother trying 
 to get used to them until your gamepad is plugged in. If you've played a lot of first-person shooters, 
 you may initially be thrown off by how the game constantly requires you to switch (albeit seamlessly) 
 between a top-down third-person perspective and a first-person view. The catch is that you can't 
 aim precisely from a third-person perspective, but you have to stand still when in first-person 
 mode. So you'll often sneak up behind guards, switch to first-person view, and then quickly shoot 
 them in the head either with deadly ammo or with tranquilizer darts if you're feeling humane. There 
 are a lot of nuances to the controls, such as how you can dangle from railings or ledges, press 
 your back up against a wall and peak around the corner, and crawl through narrow spaces. But it's 
 too bad these controls weren't optimized for the PC. MGS2: Substance could have worked quite well 
 as a purely first-person-perspective game. As it is, you'd be well off using a gamepad that's similar 
 to the stock PlayStation 2 controller. Better yet, there are adapters available that let you use 
 a PlayStation or PS2 gamepad on your PC.     

  You'll likely feel motivated to come to grips with the controls, since Snake and Raiden have a 
 number of moves for you to master. They can strangle unsuspecting victims or use them as human 
 shields, they can hold up their victims by surprising them with a gun to their backs, they can 
 execute hip tosses or punch and kick combos, and they can leap away from (or headlong into) their 
 foes. Also, what with the game's great variety of pistols, assault rifles, explosives, and high-tech 
 gadgets such as thermal goggles and a long-range microphone, Metal Gear Solid 2 definitely provides 
 you with a lot of cool stuff to use and a number of cool situations in which to use it.  

          MGS2 is loaded with gameplay twists. Here Snake shoves a knocked-out guard into a locker 
 for safekeeping.     

  The core game is about 15 hours long the first time through, assuming you don't skip over the plot 
 (and you shouldn't) , plus there's some inherent replay value in it. For one thing, the story rewards 
 multiple viewings, since you'll invariably miss some of the rapid-fire details the first time through. 
 Tougher difficulty settings make the artificially intelligent guards much more ruthless and disable 
 your tactical radar display, the absence of which makes playing the game very different and a lot 
 more challenging (though, admittedly, that's partly because the third-person perspective will sometimes 
 cause you to blunder headlong into enemy guards standing just offscreen) . You can also fight your 
 way through the game's sequences using a variety of different tactics, uncover numerous amusing 
 secrets, and unlock some hidden extras by sneaking up on and sticking up all the guards you'll 
 encounter, shaking them down for their dog tags and collecting these as you go along. It's a fun 
 little meta-game.  

  Early reports stated that Metal Gear Solid 2: Substance would allow players to experience Raiden's 
 chapter of Metal Gear Solid 2 from the perspective of Solid Snake, and that turns out to be partly 
 true. One of the extras in Substance is the addition of five small, new missions called "Snake 
 Tales," each starring Snake and each taking place during the events of Metal Gear Solid 2. These 
 are balanced for experienced players and can be played in any order, but compared with the lavishly 
 produced main game, these new missions seem rather disappointing. Cinematic cutscenes are replaced 
 with pages of onscreen text, and there's no new voice-over, so the additions to the storyline in 
 these new missions seem unnatural and slapped together. Nevertheless, they're certainly a chance 
 to play more of the game from the perspective of Solid Snake.  

  The VR missions are more compelling and offer a great variety of increasingly challenging tactical 
 situations. The main plot of Metal Gear Solid 2 makes numerous references to Raiden's VR training, 
 so it's great to finally see exactly what he had to go through (though fans of the original Metal 
 Gear Solid will remember that game's similar VR training missions) . In these stylized scenarios, 
 you'll master all the game's different weapons, sneak through numerous difficult situations, and 
 practice holding people up, taking people out, and moving precisely. You're rated based on your 
 performance in each of these stages, and if you score well enough you'll get a code that can be 
 used on Konami's official Web site to compare your standings against those of other Substance players. 

  As you finish more and more missions, you'll gain access to hidden characters and their own unique 
 sets of VR missions. Generally, some of the best mission types are the "alternative missions" for 
 each character, which are unlocked once you finish with the basic missions and tend to be quite 
 creative and enjoyable. For instance, one has you running through a nearly pitch-black, enemy-infested 
 area with nothing but a ninja sword and the goal of defeating everyone in the level. Also, some 
 of the elimination missions are a lot of fun, as they provide you with numerous weapons but limited 
 ammo, forcing you to take out a bunch of foes quietly, accurately, and strategically.  

  When it was released, MGS2 was heralded as one of the best-looking video games ever released. Its 
 meticulous attention to detail and its superb motion-captured animation are carried over intact 
 to the PC, but some instances of noticeable graphical slowdown and clipping now mar what was a 
 consistently smooth gameplay experience on the PS2. The frame rate problems sometimes occur in 
 high-intensity situations, such as during certain action-packed cinematics or when you're being 
 swarmed by enemies, so these issues don't just affect the graphics, but can also hurt the gameplay 
 experience a bit. Nevertheless, it's still a great-looking game, filled with memorable characters 
 and realistic effects.  

          Substance also features hundreds of challenging VR training missions.     

  The game's 
 audio is even better, thanks to some very good voice acting and MGS2's terrific, catchy musical 
 score, which was composed by Harry Gregson-Williams, who has provided similar music for big-budget 
 action movies such as  The Rock . If the game's cutscenes don't make you feel like you're taking 
 part in an epic thriller, then the music most certainly will. Its interactively changes depending 
 on the situation and will make the game's suspenseful bits all the more so and the game's intense 
 bits all the more so. The rest of the game's audio is also very well done, from all the different-sounding 
 firearms to smaller touches like the sound of seagulls off the coast of the game's main setting 
 of a mysterious deep-sea production plant.  

  In stark contrast to the eagerly anticipated 2001 release of MGS2 for the PS2, the PC version MGS2: 
 Substance quietly snuck onto shelves earlier this month, and due to its steep requirements and 
 obtuse controls, it threatens to disappear just as quickly. However, it really shouldn't, because 
 there's a great game hidden in MGS2: Substance -- one that just isn't comparable to anything else. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (25 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: santiagoboari
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 27, 2008 5:14 pm PT
Review:  It's been awhile since I first played the original Metal Gear Solid (PC version) , and not until 
 recently was I able to play its sequel, Metal Gear Solid 2.
  Now, I was well on high expectations with this one, being the original MGS one of the most impressive 
 and beautiful games I've ever played.
  Mr. Kojima knows what he does, and he does it just right. You don't only get a great gameplay experience 
 while playing his games, but you also get a deep, immersive story-telling that will blow your mind. 
 You'll find yourself not wanting to leave your computer to actually advance in the story and unravel 
 every little twist plot down to the last.
  To me, that's what makes the MGS games so great: The story, and the way the story develops. Yo 
 wind up emphatizing with how the characters in the game feel, just put up in the middle of a drama 
 that seems endless and a lot of times, you might feel a little overwhelmed and surprised by several 
 plot twists.
  Now, it's not all about the story, and we all know that, otherwise this wouldn't be a game and 
 would be a blockbuster movie instead. So, let's check all the little aspects of the game, shall 
 we?
  
  - First of all, let's start with the graphics:
  Its come a long way since the original PS version of MGS. MGS2 plays wonderfully on the PS2 and 
 the people who ported it to the PC did a great job. The configuration utility in MGS2 PC lets you 
 manipulate every little aspect of how the game will look, allowing you to customize the settings 
 for an optimal performance dependant on your computer's hardware. Any video card today should be 
 able to play this game at a really high resolution setting with all the effects at maximum with 
 no problem whatsoever.
  So, for the graphics themselves: they're great. As great as the PS2 could be. The don't get a whole 
 lot better than this: high-polygon character models, beautiful level and lightning design as well 
 as perfectly done character animation make this game as alive as it can be. The film-like experience 
 gets a warm feeling due to the amazing graphics in this game.
  But, the game itself would be nothing without the sound:
  
  - Sound:
  The music of the MGS 
 series is known to be superb. This one doesn't fall behind, with music composed to make the chance 
 of pace in the different aspects of the game enjoyable. You'll be on the edge as you fight through 
 hoards of enemies in an action-sequence and be touched as the music accompanies the characters' 
 feelings along with their own traumas and fears...
  The voiceovers for the US version is about as good as the original MGS: you won't feel nothing 
 odd about it. It's just as good as it gets when it comes to game - voice acting...
  
  - Add-ons:
  "Substance" is an expanded version from the original "Metal Gear Solid 2: Sons of 
 Liberty". This version adds some VR missions, the "Snake Tales" mode and some other extras that 
 weren't included in the original. This will make a good side-entertainment, but the main attraction 
 is still getting through the story that Mr. Kojima lay upon us this time...
  
  - And, finally, gameplay itself:
  As I wrote on earlier, the game has different aspects: you'll 
 have lots of action and "tactical espionage action" sequencies throughout the game, as well as 
 long (sometimes a little too long maybe) dialogs between the characters and CG animation that's 
 made on the fly with the game's own 3D engine, but nevertheless manages to make you feel you're 
 sometimes watching a good n' old action movie.
  The controls themselves could work on the PC version (with mouse+keyboard) but I strongly recommend 
 playing it with a 4-axis, 12 button gamepad, just as it was meant to in the original PS2 version.
 
  SERIOUSLY, USE A GAMEPAD if you wanna get the full experience out of this game.
  So, I guess that's about it.
  Metal Gear Solid 2: Substance was for me one of the greatest games 
 I've played so far.... and I've played a hell of a lot of 'em.
  It has that little something that the original had... I mean, the music, the graphics, the voiceovers, 
 etc. have an amazing way to get you really in-depth with this awesome story, with this awesome 
 game.
  Enjoy!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Shadovski
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 15, 2008 2:56 pm PT
Review:  "Metal Gear Solid 2: Sons of Liberty" (or in this case "Substance" which is bit extended version 
 of the basic game) was awaited like second coming of Christ. As most over-hyped things, when it 
 finally came on this sad, godless land, lot of players lost their faith In Kojima and his genius. 
 I personally was away from that MGS2 hysteria, mostly because I didn't had any possibility to play 
 it. So now, when my stone-age-PC received a small boost, I finally was able to give it a try. To 
 witness what Kojima prepared, and what was all the rumbling about. I only finished game once, so 
 it's quite first-impression look. I will need to play it longer to drain everything from it, but 
 that can be wait (just like finishing MGS1 on extreme, which will be the same day I will start 
 reading Marcel Proust's books from boredom) . 
  
  Story starts 2 years after first "Metal Gear Solid". Snake and Otacon became freelancers, and now 
 they make a big world turn, detsroing various versions of Metal Gear REX, that every developed 
 country with overgrown of ambition is building. Game starts when Snake need to infiltrate a tanker 
 named Discovery, on which board new Metal Gear is held. Quickly after Snake appears Russian mercenaries 
 and Ocelot so everything gets messy really fast. What happens later is already well known for you 
 and if you somehow don't know than you don't need to know (it's better for you to be surprised, 
 believe me) .
  
  Anyway, what I really want to say about story is that it's really amazing. Yeah, some of you cold, 
 heartless, emotional bricks, will have one big LOL from it. However if there is still a piece of 
 human , under that destroyed by video games and evil of this world shell, you should cry and feel 
 touched to the bottom of the heart (I know it hurts but you should let it from time to time) . I 
 would even say it's better than in first MGS, at least for me. Ideas and problems that Kojima presents 
 in this games are far more developed than anti-nuclear message in the previous game. The only minus 
 of it is that Kojima again try to explain it too much, and treat us like retards who can't bring 
 conclusions themselves. Still, that can't destroy brilliance and greatness of the story. 
  
  Cut-scene this time are even more often than in first MGS1. I played something like 14 hours 
 and pure gameplay was like 3-4. I don't consider this however as a disadvantage. I prefer to watch 
 MGS than play it. For me those perfectly directed cinematics are the core essence of pleasure that 
 comes from experiencing MGS. "Sons of Liberty" is also the most "cinematic" game (next to Fahrenheit) 
 I saw in few years, and I really like it in such way. I mentioned before that I prefer to watch 
 than to play. That doesn't mean gameplay sucks. Task and fights you have to take on, during game 
 are very well prepared and will require at same rate your reflex and thinking. I will only add 
 that final 2 boss' fights are pure genius and complete mind-blow. 
  
  Gameplay itself wasn't change too much. Now you can shoot from first person view mode. Snake is 
 equipped in tranquilizer gun, to put enemy asleep (don't use it if you want to play as a real soldier, 
 not some rookie) . You can hang-over barriers to move unseen, or spy with a special microphone. 
 Still need to sneak behind back of retarded enemies (I know that if they would be more intelligent 
 game would be impossible but that don't change a fact that they are blind and deaf like newborn 
 puppies) . To help you in that; you can hide in the lockers (also you find there some items or ammo) , 
 that is better solution than a card boxes. While sticked to wall, you can take a pick of what is 
 behind it, or even shoot from such position. There are more small differences (few new items but 
 like magazine with pretty ladies, not changing too much in the gameplay) and new weapons (that 
 I even didn't used) which will help you in heat situations.
  
  In "Substance" you also have few additional elements like: special missions for Snake, VR missions 
 and even skateboard section. That should give a few additional hours of gameplay after watching 
 ending credits. If that's not enough you can take higher difficulty levels, take photos and view 
 it in special album or watch cut-scenes in special theater mode.
  
  Graphics are nice and I have to admit that even now game looks quite nice. There are less objects 
 than in MGS3 but characters models, and some of effects (diving, storm) still are pleasing for 
 the eye. Despite technical aspects, the whole atmosphere that design creates is irresistible. When 
 on the tanker Snake walks during a storm, you can feel wet and cold that just beams from the screen. 
 And whole game is filled with that lovely industrial feeling; from main menu, till game over screen. 
 Characters design is more ambiguous case. Snake and rest of the old fellows looks still great (or 
 even more great because they have an eyes now) . O the other hand, newcomers are not always so wonderful. 
 Such characters as Raiden or Fortune didn't amuse me so much. They are not bad, however characters 
 from first MGS in their design were far more stylish and amazing. 
  
  Despite physical appearance I must gave honor to Kojima for building characters personalities. 
 Raiden, despite fact that is a lovely young man who could break girls' heart in many teenager tv 
 shows, is not a fully fitting character to a "tactics espionage action" game. I had a lot of problem 
 to like that boy at the beginning. But as game's story progress, Kojima (like every talented devil) 
 convinced me to his ideas and I started to like Raiden. Same with Fortune or Solidus, their stories 
 and motivations make those characters more than a bunch o polygons. The only bad thing I can say 
 (and it's only real disadvantage of "Sons of Liberty", despite screwed PC conversion) is Rose and 
 Fatman. Fatman just looks lame, but Rose is real pain in the butt. She's so irritating that I can't 
 believe Raiden could be attracted by her, and didn't used his killing techniques after first dinner 
 (also I pity all guys who have such girlfriends, sucks to be you) .
  
  OK, forget about Rose and my complain, because at every other level "Sons of Liberty" wins with 
 first "Metal Gear Solid". Well, almost. Music is another element that make this game so  
 that will pump up your emotions to the top. Generally it's far more better than in MGS1 (Harry 
 Gregson-Williams really showed his best) and only thing that I can say is not as great as in previous 
 part is final song that is not so emotional and thrilling as "The Best is Yet to Come". But that's 
 just details that can't change fact I'm all wet listening to some of the tracks.
  
  Overall I have to say Kojima again deliver a complete, and almost perfect game. It's question of 
 taste do you prefer "Sons of Liberty" or "Snake Eater", however for me the second part is as good 
 as legendary MGS1. Yeah it is in few places imperfect, but awesomeness of plot and cut-scenes, 
 many jokes and secrets Kojima and his people inserted in this game, and especially - emotions, 
 that talks to the deepest parts of my soul (if I have one, that is) , can't let me describe those 
 14 hours of playing, as anything else that just pure magic sealed on a DVD.
  
  PS. I gave 9.5 only because it's lame PC version. On PS2 it would be 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sephiroth36
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 25, 2008 6:28 am PT
Review:  I do have the game for my computer, i played it again this month, which it was fun to play, specially 
 when i take my time and to other stuff and look for easter eggs, mess around with the enemy and 
 the AI. Also i did liked the story, like in every other game of Metal Gear Saga.
  
  As the game have 2 versions of the story, Solid snake and Raiden, also it does have the VR Simulator, 
 in which gives you more entertainment, doesn't have the mystery thing, but oh well.
  
  The graphics are very good, todays date my computer outperforms the game in which i have to set 
 some configurations below the max level to get the best graphics.
  
  The sound is pretty good.
  
  The game play have a good replay, meaning ive played it many time 
 after i finished the game for the first time. Also i spent with it many hours even i can finished 
 it in less, i just go, take the time to smell the flowers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pangster007
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 9, 2008 6:01 pm PT
Review:  Well, it's been dragging on since i've completed Metal Gear Solid 2: Substance for the PC but i've 
 finally got down to it. I completed Metal Gear Solid on the PS1 many years ago which left me wanting 
 for more of the same gameplay. Storywise, it was honestly a little confusing even though it left 
 me in awe with the japanese music (at the end) and theories on society itself no matter how far-fetched 
 they sounded to be. If MGS1's gameplay formula, PS2's power over PS1, and the well choreographed 
 trailer scenes were anything to go by MGS2 promises something very, very special. And it delivered.
 
  
  I played this on my new PC, graphic settings maxed out, windowed, and with the resolution taking 
 the most of my 1920 x 1200 space. The game is very nice looking, nothing super-fancy in shaders, 
 bump-mapping or whatnot, but the aesthetics and styling are all there. Characters lip-synch with 
 dialogue, faces have enough polygons to show expressions and although it has all the signs pointing 
 towards a crudely ported game from a console some generation ago, the styIe, good 'cinematography' 
 and overall great gameplay makes this version of the game worth playing. The only real complaint 
 in terms of visuals is the colour pallete, or lack thereof, there is so much GREY throughout the 
 game - and if not GREY, GREEN but of the sort that looks washed out. The game does suffer from 
 compatibility problems, some random crashes and in many peoples' experiences (after reading through 
 support forums) , a green screen in a projector room which although not critical to game progress 
 does dent the overall experiences from easter eggs and the off-jokes laden throughout the game. 
 There is supposed to be an in-game joke on the projected screens (which can be found by youtubing) 
 and this bug/glitch effectively removes it. I played the game with a 360 controller plugged in 
 via USB. Using the keyboard is more challenging than the game itself and is a fustrating experience 
 in immense proportions - get yourself a gamepad, it is most definitely needed.
  
  
  I'll say this, this is a game in which you either 'hate' or you absolutely love it: personally, 
 i fall in the latter. I actually first played MGS2 on the PS2 but i abandoned progress as i couldn't 
 find the time or effort to overcome a somewhat clumsy control setup, and the seemingly excessive 
 amounts of dialogue and full motion video. Put some effort into it, overcome the learning curve 
 and try and pay attention to the actual story and that is when everything clicks into place. You'll 
 remember guard routines, how many guards are in the room, where are the cameras pointing or where 
 lies claymore mines and soon you'll be snapping necks, dragging dead bodies and holding multiple 
 guards up at gun point - left, right and centre.
  
  The game is split in 2: the Tanker and the Plant episode. The game starts with you controlling 
 Snake at a tanker out at sea, it's your mission to infiltrate without being detected and confirming 
 the existence of a Metal Gear (Huge, robot-like tank on legs) by photo. It all sounds straightforward 
 but progression shows that not all is as it seems. The Plant episode may upset fans of the series 
 as you're actually playing as Raiden, a completely new face to the series. The scenario?~ Raiden 
 (who is also called Jack during your nanomachine communications) , is sent into an oil plant after 
 terrorists claim hold of hostages including the President. Your mission is to retrieve the president 
 alive while acting as an unknown individual. And again, plot twists ensue. If you have the patience 
 to take in the plot and the story then you're rewarded with an engaging, thoughtful experience 
 - not far off from a movie production actually. The story/game scenario is actually very similar 
 to MGS1 and there is a deeper reason for it however it does not feel like MGS1 at all.
  
  The learning curve is steep, the game teaches you the very basics, but slight unorthodox changes 
 may annoy you at first. Advanced moves are also present however, the game does not tell you how 
 to pull them off and requires experimentation after you've finally configured the controls in a 
 confortable way. Holding up guards require you raising your weapon at an unexpectant guard, snapping 
 necks require you grabbing enemies at a certain position, create diversions with objects, etc, 
 all these have to be learnt. The game does walk you through on how to grab ledges, knock on walls 
 for distractions, shoot your weapon, how to open doors and basic movements through water.
  
  One important aspect of the stealth action genre is the sound. Voice-acting is excellent - 
 convincing, yet has a slight cheese to it. The game is a bit cheesy, but it is thrown around and 
 gobsmacked to the point at which it is amusing and stangely addicting due to it's uniqueness. There 
 is a lot of excellent voice-work, but the music and sound effects are just on-par. Hiding in a 
 locker, or cardboard box or even under a plane while a guard walks on by would trigger a 'heartbeat' 
 sound effect which lifts up that tension tremendously. Getting spotted will make an unrealistic, 
 loud 'alarm' sound effect but it's emotionally well-suited in triggering a sense of panic. The 
 music will hasten or slow down according to the enemies' alert level. This point also brings in 
 another point which this game excels in - A. I.
  
  The AI of a stealth game is pretty much the Alpha and Omega of a solid game (no pun intended) . 
 Guards will alert by radio of enemy presence and a team of guards will come to that section of 
 the map. They'd scout out the area and so you should quickly escape the area or incapacitate the 
 guard/radio before it's too late. If you do manage to take out the guard before he finishes his 
 cry of alarm, you can hear the person on the reciever-end become suspicious and then send out a 
 low-level alert. Running across 'loud-floors' will alert a guard of another's presence. Shooting 
 a loud weapon without a silencer would cause the same effect. One flaw to the AI however, is the 
 vision of these guards. You can see enemies' field of vision on your map/radar which is both short 
 and narrow; all too easily can you be standing a distance from a guard face-to-face without being 
 caught.
  
  The pace of the game is pretty much spot on if you find the cutscenes engrossing. Actual gameplay 
 is short and if you were to play this game a second time while knowing fully what to do (and skipping 
 the cutscenes) , you can easily complete it in a few hours. The first few hours would most likely 
 have you scratching your heads on the controls, 'special moves', and general progress on the game. 
 If you manage to beat the Tanker episode, you'll fully enjoy the Plant episode after what you have 
 learnt thus far - and it is then in which the game actually starts 'becoming a game'. Bosses are 
 excellently unique and are portrayed in such a way that would leave you in awe; there will be times 
 when you feel hopeless against them. Gaining objectives such as disarming bombs, getting to locations 
 in time, escorting through water, singling out and contacting a specific hostage without detection, 
 and protecting someone with a sniper as she makes her way to safety are all definitely fun and 
 breaks up the pure 3rd person stealth action. The game also throws you some decent weaponry such 
 as automatics, snipers, rockets, grenades, and even a samurai sword! all of which come in handy 
 at specific parts of the game (actually some are essential to progress) .
  
  System-specifics aside, this game is masterfully crafted. The plot is well presented, the characters 
 are individual characters that play their part well. Controls will feel a little loose at first 
 although they can be learnt with practice. The game is very unique, pacing is strong, the sense 
 of achievement at the end is worthwhile and you are rewarded with a very good ending. Did i mention 
 unlockable items such as the bandana and cloaking device - yes, you can have unlimited ammo or 
 be invisible! If you could choose between which versions of this game to pick up - first and foremost, 
 get the original PS2 version. If you don't have a PS2 (who doesn't!?) , get the PC version, the 
 porting issues are apparent but they can be overcome with some effort - effort that is actually 
 worthwhile. There is an Xbox version, but i don't know much of it so i wouldn't comment. The PC 
 version does have 'Snake Tales' (story mode for snake on Plant episode) , and many VR missions. I've 
 heard, other versions of the game don't have it - so that's a nice addition. Awesome game, at least 
 try to get into it - if you can't, that's too bad because this game is one those that have to be 
 played by gamers all over. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pastech
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 6, 2008 11:36 am PT
Review:  I really enjoyed Metal Gear Solid on the PSOne, I like the MGS2 on the PS2, but this PC version 
 is much better than the PS2 version, the graphics are clear and crisp, it doesn't look like a low 
 budget port from the PS2, they obviously put a lot of effort in making the game look good on the 
 PC. The game play is fantastic, you just want to keep playing, the levels are well maid and some 
 of the stages are quite difficult, but not impossible. I have now played MGS (PSOne & PC) , MGS2 
 (PS2 & PC) and MGS3 (PS2) , and this must be the best of the three. I just can't wait for MGS4, 
 hopefully it will not be exclusively for the PS3, and PC gamers will get to enjoy the fourth Hideo 
 Kojima game in the Metal Gear Solid franchise. Brilliant Game (9.5) ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ice-Blade
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 25, 2007 9:25 am PT
Review:  this game is just live example that games aren't just graphics and sound
  The game is a sense the actors and the drama in game it's all make a perfect combination of the 
 perfect story
  I mean i finished the game and i want to play it all over again to watch all the drama scenes but 
 eventually i can say it's not entirely spy game not as Splinter Cell series because in the game 
 the story suddenly turned into sci-fiction events it not a disadvantage but also it's not a spy 
 game
  If i spoke in the details then I'll never stop i mean the graphic is awesome i still can't believe 
 that it's built on direct x 8.1 and the sound acting was brilliant and also the music off course 
 when i read on the CD case it was by Harry Gregson Williams i knew it's going to be really great
 
  It's too sad that MGS3 and MGS4 is not going to the PC i still hoping that someday they release 
 them for the PC it'll be my life dream 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scytheinvein
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 26, 2007 7:37 pm PT
Review:  made it up to solidus snake. game will only allow you to sword thrust kick and punch which is useless 
 against this adversary. you have to use the raiden's sword to beat him unfortunately you will be 
 unable to hack and slash with it, which requires you to use the right analog stick. i've tried 
 various controllers to emulate the games right analog stick, nothing works. you cant use keyboard 
 or mouse to emulate the games right analog stick. I tried using the original ps2 controller, still 
 no progress even configuring controller options within the game. you're better off getting the 
 console version, at least the controller will work as the game suggests. Good graphics but poor 
 controller emulation. Konami overlooked this while porting to pc. im looking to get the console 
 version. pc one is a rip off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rolmanus
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 18, 2007 4:29 am PT
Review:  Well, Metal gear solid 2 substance isn't better than the playstation 2 version of the game, and 
 it's not better even than sons of liberty. The graphics of Metal gear solid 2 substance, is as 
 the same as mgs 2 sons of liberty. The bonus missions are funny, but a little boring. Metal gear 
 solid 2 substance is NOT more than Sons of liberty. The other problam is the controlls. It can't 
 be controlled. But it's still a good game.
  
  Graphics: As good as sons of liberty. 10/10
  
  Sounds: This is great too. 9/10
  
  Controlls: 
 The worst in the game. 6/10
  
  Gameplay. Great. Still great. 8/10
  
  So if you don't have a playstation 2, than you need to play with Metal Gear Solid 2: Substance. 
 But if you have a ps2, than this won't be a new game, it's sons of liberty, with a little extras, 
 and a baad controlls. 8.0 GREAT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cobra_fox
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 4, 2007 8:00 am PT
Review:  This is to put it simply one of the best games of the series. The game has a poor port to the PC 
 being a port of a port ( from PS2 to Xbox to PC) but it can be easily forgiven with its unique 
 style that it uses top present the story, which is the backbone of any MGS game.
  
  The game is broken up into 2 sections the tanker chapter and the plant chapter where you play the 
 two characters Snake on the tanker and Raiden on the Plant chapter. The game also features more 
 than 200 VR levels which are just like MGS1 but they can get a little repetitive so they shouldnt 
 have added so many. One last feature is the Snake Tales they are 5 separate stories not at all 
 related to the Sons of Liberty story and can be challenging and enjoyable as you play Snake in 
 different situations
  
  The games overall structure is brilliant, the storyline flows along but is very complicated probably 
 one of the most complex storylines in a computer game, it is even more dense than some Hollywood 
 movies so if you tend to skip clips in game you will be very disappointed when you finish it even 
 though some of them can be more than 30 minutes long
  
  The gameplay is very well done you have a variety of move like hanging, choking, rolling sommersaults, 
 hold ups and hand to hand fighting not to mention the vast arsenal of weapon you pickup in the 
 game from a SOCOM pistol to a stinger missile launcher. But the main concept has not changed, stealth 
 is the key so run and gunning moves are not cleaver. But dont worry you still get you action segments 
 in the game with boss battles and some ambushes from enemy soldiers As for the PC port it isnt 
 as good as MGS1 but when you can iron out all the bugs and configure it properly it will run perfectly 
 on any midrange PC as its requirements are not that high but sadly it will not run under vista 
 at the moment with the Vista beta drivers from Nvidia.
  
  So Substance on the PC is a superb game that should not be missed and the added extras are fun 
 to play with when you need a break from the games long and confusing (but very well written) story. 
 But be warned when playing any MGS game you have to watch just as much as you play so if you dont 
 like cutscenes in computer games its not for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IAmTheMoose
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 26, 2007 9:05 pm PT
Review:  Every now and then there comes along a game so amazingly well made so as to re-define what a game 
 should be. Metal Gear Solid 2 is no exception. It's graphics, while somewhat dated, are still appealing, 
 and the gameplay is as fresh as ever. And while the port to PC took away some luxury with the control 
 layout, once you get used to the controls, it becomes quite easy to play.
  
  Metal Gear Solid 2 is a very exhilarating experience and certainly should not be missed by anyone. 
 As you probably know, it is a stealth game. You try to complete your objectives without drawing 
 attention to yourself. Of course, if blasting your way through is more your style, that is acceptable 
 too. Also, it has an enjoyable, almost comical, feel to it. On lower difficulty levels, you take 
 multiple hits to die, your weapons are very effective, and enemies are nearly blind and deaf. Don't 
 get me wrong though, as once you get to the harder difficulties it can become quite a challenge 
 to get past even a couple guards without either being seen or using a weapon. And of course, as 
 difficulty increases, so does realism (to an extent) . You die in 2-3 hits, enemies can hear and 
 see very far, and you will often find yourself playing through an area several times before you 
 get through without dying.
  
  Of course, another perk of this game is when you do get caught and an attack force gets sent to 
 neutralize you. It is especially fun, as if you run into a different room when they chase you, 
 they will organize room clearings, often throwing in first a flash-bang and then checking lockers, 
 under tables, etc. There is alot of tense action to be had.
  
  However, don't expect to get the full experience with ADD/AD-HD. Much of the game involves watching 
 cinematics or conversations. Skipping these often results in not understanding what to do or what 
 is happening. Many of them are also very well scripted.
  
  Also, there is alot of detail in this game. Many smaller touches that make the game feel amazingly 
 interactive are a welcome change to most games. For example, shoot out a guard's radio, and he 
 won't be able to call for reinforcements. Or, you could stand outside in the rain until you catch 
 a cold and start periodically sneezing.
  
  There certainly is much to be had with this game, and once you get used to the cumbersome control 
 scheme, it is amazingly fun to sneak around and do other stealthy (or action-y) things in this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: diablo4xp
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 5, 2007 4:21 pm PT
Review:  Best Game kon-ami ever made. u see really awesome game and story is really simulation the reality 
 and above all The action that almost make it real
  
  its a strategy stealth Espionage game that after a large equipment named metal gear and your role 
 is to spy on enemy moves, take pictures of their equipment and their army, speech even, not to 
 mention the great in-game scenes that make it a real action movie to watch
  
  and what you gonna really like is the nice graphics and the nice animations,
  real exquisite 
 and cool etc...
  
  So buy the game and you will never regret it,
  
  you will find new options in this game like new game and these other stuff
  like snake story 
 &gt;&gt; which its another game mode and the training mode &gt;&gt; missions .. and alternate missions 
 really hot though 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mgs_maniac
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 26, 2006 8:28 am PT
Review:  I coulnt expect this game so great. When i saw how gamespot rated this one i thought it would be 
 a metal gear game but not so great as the others were.. When i played it i realised that i was wrong... so 
 was gamespot. This is a great game. expect so much from it.. It has stunning great amazing gameplay 
 and story.. You can sneak around and complete your mission. The graphics are the best!!! with this 
 word i say everything.. The only thing i didnt like is the value: I was so maniac i played everyday 
 and everynight so it could be longer for you... Thats all i say.. Oh and sound is perfect... how could 
 i forget it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: someone6669
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 25, 2006 6:26 pm PT
Review:  This is a TRULY unusual game. Put simply, this is the best game ever. It is not just that. It is 
 the best game ever BY A VERY FAR MARGIN.
  
  This is not a game where you have to jump and kill people. This is a game where you have to think. 
 Think why we are here. Think why we make the decisions we make. Think about the truth of our existence.
 
  
  From a gameplay standpoint, it is sheer genius. The game jumps between completely different kinds 
 of action, and the pace is simply amazing. At one moment, you will find yourself looking for hidden 
 bombs to diffuse. At another moment, you will find yourself protecting a disabled girl from all 
 sorts of enemy soldiers using your sniper rifle. Again, the pace at which those actions are presented 
 is simply outstanding.
  
  The only problem with this game is that it is not easy to get it working on a PC. You need to look 
 for patches, and apply them in order. It took me a week before I could get it to work, but it was 
 worth every second of it.
  
  The bottom line is, you simply MUST play this game. If you don't, you are losing a lot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bibiqum
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 9, 2006 5:54 pm PT
Review:  I knew when i first played it that this game was going to be good... But i didn't expect it was 
 going to be this amazing! Well we could begin the story: Believe me its very hard to follow sometimes 
 especially at the end but its a rich story and very exciting, you always wonder whats going to 
 happen next. The story twists itself very often which is a good thing because it will calling you 
 back for more. Gameplay: it may be the game's biggest downside but its definitely not boring!
 
  You can do all sort of stuff, like going behind a soldier and break his neck or shooting somebody 
 in the leg or the arm and immobilizing them.. You can even slip on some birdie's poo ;) . Anyway 
 it has a satisfying gameplay.
  
  Graphics: This is also one of the best parts in the game, at least when it was released but its 
 still pretty good. The in game cutscenes are so lifelike so you can almost feel that you are standing 
 beside him/her.
  The graphics is comfortable and is holding up itself even today.
  
  I did a small review but i am sorry its one of these rare games that you cant describe in words, 
 you must feel the dramatic cutscenes in the game, the intense alerts if you are discovered, learn 
 the memorable characters in the game etc.
  
  I must say this is one of the games that i couldnt stop playing no matter how i tried, i gotta 
 se what happened next. Masterpiece! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: X-Robert
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 5, 2006 8:11 pm PT
Review:  Firstly this is a great game. But since PC is never the same as PS2 ,the graphics suck. Again playing 
 with a key board is another thing suck.
  Expert the weakness above ,this game is truely the best system of the 21st century as the 26-mintue 
 Twin Snke trailer said.
  The fight system is cool. Snake and Raiden can both shoot and hand-to-hand fight and they also can 
 be beaten and lie down on the ground.
  Anothet cool thing about this game is its story and real-time demo story-tellong. This improve that 
 a day game can take the place of movie.
  The added misson and Snake tales are not as good as the orignal game, that is disappointing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LAcrima3D
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 23, 2006 9:06 am PT
Review:  First of all I don't care about crap like bad porting to pc or bad controls or anything like that. 
 I am happy every time when a great game comes to pc from consoles, since PC games are full of fps 
 bullsh*t. Now about the game...
  
  Metal Gear series to me are a true peace of art. I enjoyed playing the first and so I had fun with 
 the second. I don't compare them because they are just... different. It Seems like Hideo really 
 wanted to push the limits in MGS2. From some point he so did, from another... well Vamp in my 
 opinion was a really bad idea. I can't judge Hideo's desire to show the snake from "outside" adding 
 the new main character Rider. Some people say that MGS2 storyline is too complicated, I don't judge 
 them either, though I enjoyed the philosophy of patriots, it's actually so true that it hurts... 
 
  
  MGS is a really inspiring masterpiece and I had a pleasure playing it indeed. I really hope there 
 will be more games like this in future. Let's face it; there are not many games like MGS with that 
 quality level in all meanings. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: meischris39
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 27, 2006 9:00 am PT
Review:  Mgs2 is arguable one of the most complex games and the metal gear solid series in general takes 
 the biscuit for ingenuity storytelling and cinematic sequences. This game sees you take upon the 
 role of rookie Raiden along with Snake and their ongoing battle against metal gear. Most of the 
 characters are back looking fresh and colourful as ever each telling their own story in their own 
 unique way.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  The main core of mgs's gameplay is hiding behind boxes tapping on walls and wearing infrared goggles. 
 Its all about stealth and my friends mgs does this to perfection. Although frustrating at times 
 this is not a game for unreal tournament lovers. You can choose from a large variety of weapons 
 each with their own purpose and job. There are new characters with amazing capabilities personalities 
 and moves that really make you feel hatred and love to some of them. THe cutscenes are back with 
 some varying up to 30 mins which is quite a feat, yet some are amazingly breathtaking revealing 
 parts of the plot that not even Chuck Norris could think up others are very dull with codec sequences 
 with deep deep phylisophical meaning. Atlhough the structure of the engine is very linear you do 
 hae the ability to swim, and quite realistically at that. Guns can be wielded in a 1st person mode 
 to take out enemies and shoot objects that interact. The main part of the game is interacting with 
 enemies good or bad and the ai performs this rather averagely with some parts of chases being very 
 in depth with Raiden hiding in lockers or under tables but sometimes the ai can be very linear 
 with it only seeing 5m in a straight forward direction.
  Theres not really a lot more to say about the game gameplay wise aside from the objectives can 
 be rather difficult to figure out sometimes and need to be explained a little bit more cleaerly 
 which could confuse younger or inexpirienced gamers.
  
  Graphics - 
  
  This is easily the shining superstar of the game. Beautifully rendered cutscenes with polygons 
 flying at every angle. The game doesnt use amazing shading and lighting effects but the graphics 
 work to its advantage by giving the enviroments a clean shiny look. The cutscenes are the main 
 portion of the game with some being so realistic and engaging that you become a part of the mgs 
 world. Everything is running smoothly and mgs does something very very few games have been able 
 to do which is render water looking clean crisp and realistic with the physics engine reallly coming 
 to play. The realism of a game of this genre is unparralled Raiden can trip over pigeon crap, get 
 blown away by a toilet hand dryer and even look at FHM posters in peoples lockers. Not only does 
 it use the games graphics it uses real life fmv video to provide that extra sense of realism that 
 really shines in a game lke this. The game has to be seen to be believed easily one of the best 
 looking games on ps2 and in fact this generation.
  
  Sound - 
  
  With most of the game being cutscenes and codec sequences, sound is cruicial part of the game as 
 a whole. Acting is done very well but some characters can seem well a little bored during the game 
 in a cinematic sequence. The music is very well performed although very unsuitable at times. Background 
 music is fitting and varied with most music being played when you get chased by a guard. Overall 
 though a solid musical performance by a generally solid game.
  
  Value - 
  
  I feel sorry for many big MGS fans because this game maybe one of the best games made to date but 
 the whole thing only lasts around 10 hours for a moderately good gamer. I guess its a sacrifice 
 that must be made for many cutscenes and sound clips. The additional features to this game when 
 you have finished your 10 hour rollercoaster ride still happen to be a little dull. There is no 
 2 player option and the addons you get are amusing for about 5 minutes or so. For example one extra 
 is that you can select certain cutscenes and change the characters round, but with the voices remaining 
 exactly the same it is deemed rather pointless. THe other main addition is the boss fights where 
 you can relive many battles against epic bosses which i have to say werent very epic in some cases. 
 The metal gears which were hyped up so much in teh game were the ultimate fighting force that could 
 only be taken out by another metal gear, whilst playing as Raiden i destroyed around 10 metal gears 
 with a rocket launcher int he space of 2 minutes which was very very disappointing, i expected 
 a full on war, and a got a dogfight. Overall MGS 2 is a solid solid snake game that is a true fitting 
 sequel to the series and will probably be the best 10 hours spent in your life.
  
  
  The Sun Lolly King^ 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nonsenseical
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 14, 2006 10:13 pm PT
Review:  This is quite possibly one of the coolest games ever. But, it has its drawback. If you missed Metal 
 Gear Solid 1 (for PC and PS) then you missed the boat. The plot is thick. Very thick. You might 
 want to buy Metal Gear Solid 1, it might help when they make the 1000th reference to it, so that 
 you don't completely miss the story.
  
  Also, this is quite possibly the worst port of the best game on the planet. The instruction booklet 
 referenced the Xbox controller, and the game does too. It has soo many bugs, but they are quickly 
 fixed if you download the patch, especially if you have an ATI card. The game looks super ugly 
 until you get the patch.
  
  Also, when they ported the game they had no consideration for us PC gamers, for example: at one 
 point you need to press a button really fast. On a controller that is easy, but keyboards are not 
 so nice. Ctrl is a bad button to use for fire, sub machine guns won't work. Speaking of keys, the 
 default keys suck. Change them once you buy it.
  
  Enough of the bad stuff, trust me, this is the best game you could buy. The game play is unique 
 and creative. A must have for those who like action! The good outweighs the bad! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: g3n3r41xan
Rating: 7.7
Date: Mar 8, 2006 6:08 pm PT
Review:  When I first played the game i didnt understand much about the story so it made me to play it once 
 more which then i began to realise whats really going on. The game is really fun to play with better 
 graphics than the first MGS and also a lot more new fetures in the game for example; you can hange 
 off the ledge to quickly go out of sight of an enemy, you can press the crawl button when running 
 to do a quick flip to move to pass in front of a doorway with an enemy nearby and more other features 
 that make the game more exciting to play.
  MGS2 is, or rather was fun to play the first or second time but since its single player it will 
 be boring after a while, but since it has a good story and good game play i will give it 7.7, and 
 also do not play this game unless you have played the first MGS otherwise you wont understand anything 
 from it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hamedmetalgear
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 7, 2006 1:41 am PT
Review:  I just want to tell all you, my friends, that this is the best game I have ever seen , not challengeble 
 . 
  I don't know how to describe it , All I can say is that it is THE BEST GAME
  ever seen.
  
  Sound is perfect ....... behaviours of enemies is unbelievable ............. 
 control is excellent ................ just graphic is a bit low ( of course higher than lots of 
 games ) and that is because of that , this game is designed for PS not PC
  
  I think that .....
  I dont know what to say about this game
  I LOVE it
  I spend LOTS of my 
 TIME to play it
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Carl0009
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 20, 2005 9:31 am PT
Review:  This Game Is Like Every Metal Gear There Is: Very Very Good, The VR Misions Are Great, The Graphics 
 Are Incredible, The Sound Very Realistic, There Is Olso A Group Of Cool Weapens Including a Sword, 
 Stinger Missles, M4, Ect. The Realisim In This Game is Hard To Find In Other Games.
  Now The Only Flaw Is The Controls.....
  In The Keyboard Is Extremely Hard To Play This Game With 
 A Keyboard So If You Don't Have A Gamepad With A Lot Of Bottons, You Will Have To Dedicate A Really 
 Long Time To Learn The Controls Of The Game.......
  But In Conclusion Its One Of The Best PC Games Out There... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elliot_
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 12, 2005 7:17 am PT
Review:  This is a greatest game .... if you had a good PC .... the grafics are amasing...
  the history is perfect and the diologs and musics are great. ..... buts
  this treasure ...... its 
 a little short ..... in the action game ...... but has lot to do ... in VR... and and play the game 
 in hard or extreme is nothing easy. ..
  I played the game only this year and the game is amasing .... with his age ...... is very realistisc 
 and real...?: P
  I love it. ... its very good like the first one..
  I dont know what to say ... but i think this is a great game on PC.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: s3ank1ms
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 30, 2005 9:18 pm PT
Review:  my personal opinion is that this is not the best metal gear because the game gets you walking back 
 and forth from area to area. the good part about this game is the VR missions theyll keep you entertatined 
 for hours. but they can get boring real fast unlike the PS1 VR mission. a nice addition to this 
 game is the snake tales which are not as good as the regular game itself but will keep you entertatined. 
 the humor that kojiama puts in this game is really funny and kinda weird, you can try different 
 things to the guards 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bybeach
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jul 13, 2003 10:36 pm PT
Review:  First to express is my extreme fustration in getting to even play this game. Damaged or dirty disk, 
 a bogus call by the game code, caused two returns to the vendor. Kamani did not return any of my 
 dozen or so calls. The patch, an effort taken by me, a leap of faith, with a third disk, finally 
 did the trick.
  The game? Except for the occasional poor controls, I liked Metal Gear 2 often, and really truly 
 enjoyed it at times. The story line- glad somone felt they should think about the world, the future, 
 mind control, and all that. And think about these things they did, cut scene after lengthy cutscene 
 after way way too long lengthy cutscene. Of course, each player in the game had some devious b. s. 
 that completly outdid everyone else and they knew you just needed to hear it all for the realtime 
 of four or five minutes over and over....
  Except for Raiden, poor er.... guy (what was the President of the United States thinking of, groping 
 like that?} , though of course, he had issues. Many issues, as the game went on. Especially with 
 his girlfriend. Don`t know what was worse in the end, her bad cooking or the fact that she was 
 both pregnant and possobly an alien lifeform of the evil Patriots. Didn`t suprise me there was 
 a anti-depressent he could take, ostenably for trembling hands when sniping. Betcha those pillls 
 went out quick!
  However, neither the pills or the bandages could I access for use. Had to crouch and leave little 
 red puddles instead, very embarassing. Neither could I make the sword operate properly with my two 
 joystick gamepad. Aiming and firing could be extremly clunky. I was always worried about the game, 
 control-wise, screwing up on me. 
  However...
  I really liked this game, despite itself. The mostly discrete Asian influence was different for 
 me, and if nothing else a little Anime found it`s way in. I enjoyed the fact that the creator of 
 the plot really wanted it to be extremly driven and intense, not to say convoluted. But when there 
 was action, there was real action, and plenty of it, just not stealth. Fought with everything from 
 a sword to three variations of missles and gernade launcher, oppossing a Harrior for example. The 
 graphics for all this. Very Good! The blood scenes could be a little much.
  What I would say about this game is this. Just as Gamespot`s reviewer said, Metal Gear Solid 2 
 is rather raw, both for it`s porting to P. C., and I think for presentations that are awkward ie; 
 language translations-word meanings, patience for overly dramatic cutscenes (Wait till Emma dies... Gawd!) . 
 The one thing this game had way plenty of, was Heart. Metal Gear 2 is absolutly determined not 
 to short you, either in playing time, or what it includes in the title, Metal Gear 'SUBSTANCE'. 
 I really think Metal Gear Solid 2 wanted to be a high minded action-thriller movie, and You get 
 to be the good guy. Till he goes off into the sunset that is, without your dogtags.
  Thanks.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jehurey
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 25, 2003 7:31 pm PT
Review:  Despite what everyone might say about the game, playing this over a year and a half later after 
 Sons of Liberty is still very engaging, impressionable, and good-looking. The great production 
 values are still there, heck even the original Metal Gear Solid's production values are still better 
 than half of the new games out there. The biggest setback for Substance for the PC is the absolute 
 lack of integration for the Windows operating system. There is no Windows interface during gameplay, 
 the only way to configure the game is during a small options menu that looks like a program made 
 at the last minute and works like a video game emulator that you would find online like NeoRageX.
 
  
  In fact, because it is only available on DVD and a DVD-ROM of at least 8x is required for it to 
 install and play, you get the belief that this is basically the XBOX DVD disc that has a small 
 install and configuration program that fools the game to run on a computer. Oh and by the way, 
 if you want to exit the game, the option doesn't exist in the game at all, you just push the escape 
 button on your keyboard and it abruptly ends, which really takes some of the gaming experience 
 from a game that totally immerses you and throws you back into reality like a slap to the face.
 
  
  There are definitely good things about this version of the game compared to the PS2 and XBOX. First 
 of all, the game MOST TIMES looks absolutely great running on a pretty fast computer using a GeForce 
 3 or GeForce 4 Ti video card because it can run at higher resolutions. The reason why I say that 
 it runs great most times is because it usually applies to the levels that are indoors and are not 
 crowded with many enemies. For example, the opening tanker scene outside technically looks great 
 when the detail is put on high, but the frame rate barely reaches into the teens. When you lower 
 the level of detail all the way down, the frame rate is still the same even though everything looks 
 fizzled in the rain, meaning that it seems to be a coding problem rather than a hardware problem. 
 However, once you get inside the tanker, it runs and looks better than anything on the console 
 versions. Unfortunately, the opening movie sequence is apparently using the game engine and therefore 
 skips all the way thru, you'd figure that within the 7.8 Gig installation that they would put a 
 high quality MPEG version of the movie sequence that would look as good as DVD-quality.
  
  Another reason why the game is good, its Metal Gear! Sure the game leaves a lot, and I mean A LOT, 
 to be desired, but it still has a lot to offer. Even though I've beaten the original Sons of Liberty 
 on the PS2 back in 2001, I am replaying the main portion again until I get to the VR Missions and 
 the Snake Tales. So even though I haven't played any of the extras yet, the only thing that should 
 matter is that it is more of the same great gameplay that many complained was left out of SOL.
 
  
  The game feels weird being on the PC, because it definitely feels like a console game, but with 
 the right controller, the right video card (hopefully this new ATI patch works for those Radeon 
 owners) and a little bit of patience during the half-hour installation, you would get to play a 
 game that really is unique to the PC. The similarities to Splinter Cell are only skin deep, because 
 both of these games have very different fundamentals, and both are equally worth owning. Anybody 
 who hasn't played Metal Gear Solid 2 should definitely get it, whether its for the PS2, XBOX, or 
 PC. There is no way you can dislike this game outright. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
