-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Metal Fatigue
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/metalfatigue/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug  3, 2000
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.9
Critic Score: 7.3, 24 Review (s)
User Score: 8.7, 253 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: TalonSoft
Developer: Zono Inc.
Genre: Strategy
Date:     Jul 31, 2000
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Despite its problems, fans of anime or mech games should find that Metal Fatigue is a fun, fast-paced 
 real-time strategy game. 

 Many real-time strategy games center on massive battles between different types of tanks. Metal 
 Fatigue takes this convention to the next level by focusing on "combots," giant robots reminiscent 
 of those in various Japanese animated cartoon series. Metal Fatigue's concept is innovative both 
 in its modular unit design and in its multilevel battlefields that take place in orbit, on the 
 surface, and underground all at once; but the game's unbalanced units, as well as a few interface 
 problems, cut it short of its potential.   

  The game's story is similar to what you might expect from giant robot anime such as Macross and 
 Gundam. In Metal Fatigue, three corporate factions, which coexist in an uneasy alliance, have discovered 
 alien technology in the far-off Hedoth system. In an initial skirmish over the discovery, three 
 brothers - Diego, Stephan, and the treacherous Jonas - find their loyalties split among separate 
 factions, and soon, open war breaks out. A ten-mission campaign is devoted to telling the story 
 of each of the three "CorpoNations": the balanced RimTech, the aggressive MilAgro, and the high-tech, 
 stealthy Neuropa.   

  Each CorpoNation has its own combot technologies, but during the course of a mission, it's possible 
 to retrieve parts abandoned on the battlefield and research them for your own faction's use. What 
 makes this possible is the modular construction of the combots themselves, as each is constructed 
 from four components - torso, legs, and right and left arms. While the modular design somewhat 
 reduces the visual distinctiveness of each side, it does make it fairly easy to eyeball the composition 
 of your opponents. In fact, much of the game's strategic interest lies in adjusting your combot 
 production to best oppose the combot designs you're facing. The array of available melee and ranged 
 weapons can deal out either energy or kinetic damage, and the various defenses can defend against 
 either type. In addition, torso and leg designs can provide extra armor or special abilities such 
 as cloaking, increased hand-to-hand damage, and jump jets.   

  In stark contrast with the complex modularity of combot production, there are only four conventional 
 offensive units: a tank, a mobile surface-to-air missile launcher, a modest artillery piece, and 
 a special combot-debilitating spell unit. The conventional units are rather simple and are functionally 
 equivalent for the three sides. The primary use for conventional ground units is to go into the 
 subterranean tunnels that are much too small and unstable for the giant combots. Yet, as support 
 units for your main combot cavalry, they are often little more than expensive targets. A speedy 
 melee-equipped combot can quickly turn a tank battalion into a gutted mass of metal. The primary 
 base defenses also seem underpowered, considering their cost and build time, though the walls and 
 gun emplacement have the atypical, yet convenient advantage of being mobile. Metal Fatigue doesn't 
 aspire in any apparent way toward a rock-paper-scissors unit balance, and, in practice, it rewards 
 you simply for throwing as many multipurpose combots at a target as possible.   

  Furthermore, the mix of very large and very small units exacerbates the game's pathfinding issues, 
 the chronic weak point for real-time strategy games. The game's 3D structures and units alternately 
 seem capable of packing impossibly tightly together one minute; while in the next minute, they 
 seem to get stuck on thin air. Though you might think that a militaristic bunch like the MilAgro 
 could march lockstep in their sleep, its units refuse to follow movement orders sensibly with disproportionate 
 frequency. The problem is compounded when a squad of large combots tries to walk in a tight-box 
 formation, the only one available. Too often, a valuable combot will get stuck behind just a few 
 tanks and will twist and turn uselessly, trying to find a way out. When a combot is under heavy 
 fire in tight terrain, supporting tanks will without a doubt prove to be a deadly hindrance.   
  

 The concept of dividing the battlefield into three separate levels - orbital, surface, and underground 
 - no doubt helps balance the game's otherwise combot-heavy combat. However, in practice, having 
 the action spread across multiple levels puts undue stress on the most important resource in a 
 real-time strategy game - a player's time - without easing the issue of multitasking. Orbital play 
 and underground play add two basic infrastructure tasks: Carving out subterranean tunnels to connect 
 resource-bearing lava caverns and building numerous small solar panels in orbit. Solar panels are 
 very useful in large numbers, but they add a frustrating amount of micromanagement since they must 
 be built as individual structures. A little more build automation or a centralized interface could 
 have made this a much less cumbersome element in each mission.   

  The game's single resource is energy, measured in megajoules. Energy harvesting is a rather painless 
 process, since your hover vehicles transparently beam the thermal energy they collect from lava 
 pools right back to your base. A diligent pack of harvesters can cool a lava pool in short order, 
 so it's fortunate that solar panels, deployed on your orbital stations, can provide a slow but 
 steady stream of energy while the lava flow gradually warms back up again. The last infrastructure 
 elements are the drill trucks that can slowly bore tunnels for your underground empire, and the 
 cryofarms where you can warm up cryogenically stored troops to provide manpower for structures 
 and conventional units.   

  The game's 3D graphics show their colors when a squad of combots engages in heated combat. The 
 combots have quite a range of fluid melee animations, as they block, kick, and spin while wielding 
 giant katanas, axes, and hammers to devastating effect. Moreover, edged weapons have a good chance 
 of slicing off an enemy's arms, which can be retrieved for use with your own units. Even though 
 the camera can be zoomed and spun around to get the best view of the action, fortunately the 3D 
 terrain rarely obscures your vision - so it's often sufficient to simply scroll the 3D camera around, 
 just as in a 2D real-time strategy game.   

  Metal Fatigue won't win many points for its artistic design. The game's 3D maps often seem to share 
 a common pool of uninspired textures, and they generally lack the little details that might have 
 made Hedoth a more immersive environment. Though simple colors befit the game's overall anime-like 
 appearance, the map textures greatly overuse metallics, blues, and, in the dreary subterranean 
 layer, browns. Similarly, the in-game music reuses its riffs with abandon. At least there's even 
 a rather simple attempt to match each campaign's music to the personality of the respective CorpoNation. 
 You hear fairly subdued military marches playing as the RimTech, a funky rock mix as the violent 
 MilAgro, and airy New Age as the mysterious Neuropa.   

  Despite its problems, fans of anime or mech games should find that Metal Fatigue is a fun, fast-paced 
 real-time strategy game. The missions that showcase the open-field strengths of the combots are 
 particularly satisfying. If the game shipped last year, as originally scheduled, it might have 
 led the current wave of 3D real-time strategy games. However, as it stands, Metal Fatigue will 
 likely get lost beside a number of better-looking, more balanced games.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (9 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Truecidation
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 13, 2008 10:25 pm PT
Review:  I'm not really a hardcore RTS player despite starting out on the original warcraft (not wc2) and 
 earlier, on turn-based games (Empire Deluxe, the grandaddy of them all, no less) ; I simply haven't 
 played that many games after the wave of C&C clones in the early 2000s. That said, Metal Fatigue 
 is a pretty darn good RTS albeit with several glaring flaws.
  
  Presentation-wise (sound, graphics, campaign, i. e. gameplay in general) I have little complaint, 
 except that once again the AI has a huge leg-up over human players, being able to multitask between 
 the 3 different terrain layers easily. Also, as mentioned in another review, the overly simplistic 
 resource management (there's only 1 kind of resource, and it's pretty much infinite) means given 
 a little time, any map can be dragged into a long drawn-out fight.
  
  It's a shame though; I haven't had major issues with pathfinding, other than units getting in each 
 others' way, and the abovementioned resource issue. There's a freewheeling skirmish mode where 
 you can replay with and against numerous AI opponents and allies, as well as a multiplayer mode 
 (can't wait to convert some friends over) which means replayability is high. You can't save skirmish 
 mode games though (and probably not multiplayer ones either) , which kinda sucks, because battles 
 do tend to be of the long-drawn-out variety. Trust me: before mastering a game, most players tend 
 to build up first, before attacking en mass, right? Problem is, building up also means the enemy 
 has time to entrench himself as well, and in the case of AI opponents they'll also be sending steady 
 streams of assault parties at you. It'll take a lot of time and luck to survive the unceasing onslaught 
 and build a large enough force to bury the opposition.
  
  The game seems to not handle mutlitasking though, even despite being a windows game; when I alt-tabbed 
 out, I couldn't get back in. The game apparently belongs to the old-school generation of early 
 windows games which locked you in fullscreen mode and presumed they had the run of your machine. 
 Personally I've come to detest fullscreen games, I guess I'm used to multitasking so much.
  
  We need more RTS games like this; the modular giant mecha aspect, that is. Even with all it's 
 flaws, it's always a blast to watch the giant combots in action, even if grudgingly because it's 
 the opposition tearing your base apart. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: net_mugger
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 10, 2007 12:56 am PT
Review:  This game is quite cool if you play it right. The missions are not 2hard though. The story is not 
 2 special but I like robots: P And well there are 3 factions in this game. It is Rimtech a faction 
 of order and pace... they have robots good at all and units same. The next faction is Milagro, a 
 faction that strives for power... a brutal faction that destroys anything in it's way to achive 
 it's conquest for power. They have the type of robots that give a lot of damage. And also they 
 have the best air force in the game; and the last faction Neuropa is the one I like the most. It 
 is a force that fights for technology. It's robots are based on fast atacks and deadly at the same 
 time. Their units are based on stealth. Once they are caught in an ambush this faction is the weakest. 
 But when we talk about assault, there is nothing that can save u from destruction if u have to 
 defend against this faction.
  
  Now about the function of the game. What is cool about this game is that you can't travel only 
 on surface, you can dig through underground that is a good place for Neuropa bases, or on the orbit 
 a place good for Milagro forces. And it's supercool that you can build ships on the orbit and from 
 there you can launch an atack on surface that can be devastating. But a Neuropa base is the hardest 
 to destroy if you know how to build it. So that makes Rimtech base the most vulnerable in theory. 
 But it's not quite like that cause they have an excelent defensive system. The sound is not something 
 I will remember, but most uncool is the graphic. Well if you play the game you'll get used and 
 won't say much about it... but I have to confess that the graphic is not too good.
  
  Well if you play the game I wish you gl:) And remember Neuropa rules: P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JakeOfRavenclaw
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 27, 2007 3:33 pm PT
Review:  When a friend first loaned Metal Fatigue to me, I was very surprised that I hadn't heard of it 
 before. I was even more surprised to learn that practically no one has ever heard of it. And that's 
 a shame, because Metal Fatigue is actually a very fun game. It's a sci-fi strategy game, of course, 
 but there are a number of truly unique features. For one thing, combat mainly takes place between 
 gigantic robots that you build and assemble piece by piece -- so you can build a wide variety of 
 arms, for instance, them put them on robots as the need arises. The various pieces of weaponry -- laser 
 swords, flying legs, guns, and others -- look cool and are fun to use, and you'll have to pick the 
 right ones to win a battle. Melee weapons, such as the ever popular Giant Axe, and slice parts 
 right off of enemy robots -- they you can pick up those parts and put them onto your own robots, 
 giving them more powers and a deliciously junkyardish look. Unfortuantly, the non-robot units, 
 such as tanks, are almost completely useless, except as expensive cannon foder. The game takes 
 place on three level -- at, below, and hight above ground level -- which are easy to switch between. 
 The asteroid in particular are useful, since you can build energy generating solar panels there, 
 or take out enemy panels with jets. There's only one recourse in the game, and a variety of ways 
 to get it, so you spend less time of economy and more time on building and destroying robots.
 
  
  It's sad that a game that's this enjoyable has faded almost completely into obscurity. I'd recommend 
 that if you see it, you pick it up. For at least a little while, it's fun.
  
  (On a side note, Metal Fatigue has the best credits screen ever. I mean, you can actually take 
 control and battle with robots while watching the credits. How awesome is that?) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leon243
Rating: 9.9
Date: Oct 24, 2006 5:06 pm PT
Review:  Metal Fatigue is the best game ever cuz the sounds are pretty good, the music is very cool and the 
 best of all is the gameplay is long.
  My Friends and I really like this game so much i like the most is skrimish but it's hard to make 
 allies.
  My Favorite character is that purple he is so good because they got the best weapons, robot construct 
 and the best vheicles ever.
  Some people thinks that this game sucks which means they do not have the best strategy.
  All 
 of my friends really like this game so much.
  But the problem only tiny which is the sound is so full of bass that's it.
  I hope every people 
 of the world like this game so much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Klyern
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 7, 2006 7:35 pm PT
Review:  I was always wondering when they'd make the second edittion, my brother told me a while ago that 
 it was already out with another game but i never got it
  
  this game was the best in its age, right now its still worth playing, but i dont think its worth 
 buying it at these heights either.
  
  still suffices to say that the game speaks for itself. the dificulty is just right, there are 3 
 campaigns, the last campaign is really hard but none are imposible. the overall game was.... amazing. 
 it had some issues for wich i cant give it a straight 10 and the sound effects werent has good 
 has the music
  
  GS requires me to write more if i want to make a review but thats about it, sorry for doing this 
 but im gonna fill the blanks with any keys
  
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Igotit8675309
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 20, 2006 8:29 am PT
Review:  This game got me into the whole genre of real time strategy, besides C&C, It had good graphics it 
 seemed for the time, and robots that fought like uhh mechs? It seemed revolutionary in a way to me, with 
 being able to battle on the ground, in orbit, and underground at the same time. This game was my friends 
 who bought it from a bargain bin in a town south of us, he liked the game alout but he just didnt 
 have time to play it, so he sold it to me. I loved the way you could customize your units, and being 
 able to steal weapons off dead enemy mechs. this game got me pumped to get home from school and 
 go on the computer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wackys
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 20, 2006 2:48 am PT
Review:  
  
  The Good: It has robots not many strategy games have robots, cool graphics, great gameplay, in air 
 on ground underground combat.
  
  The Bad: If your enemy has 1 troop underground you must search it to kill it.
  
  Ok the ideea 
 is very cool i mean build a robot then put on it weapons and armor and things i like that. The graphics 
 are very well made and the sound sounds great. When you hit a robot it really sounds like it and 
 things. The three races are unique and each one of them have their own styles one is balanced in 
 strength and speed another focuses on strength and the other of stealh. In all the game is great 
 and it is easy to recommend to everybody. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: essjae
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 22, 2006 9:07 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best Mech games around! I've played this through several times and love it more 
 each time. There are a few bugs, but nothing to serious. 
  
  Writing this review makes me want to play it again!
  
  I love the abillity to collect destroyed 
 mech pieces and build them onto your own Mechs. 
  
  The AI tends to get a little lost towards the end of the campaign when there are a lot of vehicles 
 on the screen. It's ok with me, because I can build more and more mechs in that time!
  
  The negatives of this game are that it requires the cd in the drive to play... sucks when you're 
 traveling and that there was NO sequel.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dyoma
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 16, 2006 1:59 pm PT
Review:  This is a pretty good game for its genre. The graphics in this game are way ahead of their time. 
 The game play is fun but later gets a little bit boring. The campaign in the game is not really 
 fun but the multi player and the single player are very cool. You have a choice between 3 different 
 corporations in this game each one of them has their special technologies and units. Its fun when 
 you capture your enemys parts of robots and bring put them on your own robot. I highly recommend 
 this game for players that like strategies and robots at the same time. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
