-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Microsoft Train Simulator
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sim/trainsimulator/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 11, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.2
Critic Score: 8.1, 26 Review (s)
User Score: 8.2, 372 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Microsoft Game Studios
Developer: Kuju Entertainment
Genre: Train Sim
Date:     May 31, 2001 &raquo;  
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Train Simulator will be a joy for anyone with even a passing interest in trains. 

 As odd as it might sound, railroads are romantic. They offer magical views as they wind through 
 rugged mountains while hugging high cliff sides or roll through misty valleys at dawn. They call 
 to mind bygone eras: steam locomotives rattling over wooden bridges in the Old West as they carried 
 precious silver and gold from the mountains or passenger trains bringing GIs back to their sweethearts 
 after World War II. Even today, the sheer size and massive power of locomotives can evoke the same 
 type of awe that powerful planes and race cars can. And while there are plenty of racing and flight 
 sims, the only train games available so far have focused on strategic empire building. In Train 
 Simulator, Microsoft has created a realistic simulation of the iron horse -- one that can hold its 
 head high next to its racing and flying peers.           The game looks highly authentic, and includes 
 variable weather conditions.    

  Train Simulator puts you in the cab and in control of six different railway routes, covering more 
 than 600 miles of track. Thanks to the developer's partnerships with the railways featured in the 
 game, you'll get accurate presentations of both the terrain and the locomotives. Each cab view 
 features animated controls and readouts that you'd find on the real-life counterparts. For the 
 hard-core train enthusiast, you'll be able to operate the dynamic brakes, locomotive brakes, and 
 train brakes separately. You can sound the horns, whistles, and bells at crossings, turn windshield 
 wipers and headlights on and off, and operate sanders to increase the wheel grip on slippery rails. 
 On steam trains, you can change the coal-shoveling rate, open and close the firebox doors, and 
 increase and decrease the injector flow and blowers. Numerous other detailed control options are 
 at your disposal.   

  If all that sounds a bit daunting, an extensive manual with illustrations and definitions clarifies 
 things, and an online help system and a number of tutorials will also ease you into the game. A 
 reference card lists your controls, as well as the unique track signage of each line, which you'll 
 want to obey to avoid nasty derailments or time penalties when working against the clock. If you'd 
 like to keep things simple, there are driving aids, such as track monitors and a heads-up display, 
 as well as realism options that can reduce controls to just a few keys for a stress-free ride. 
           The trains themselves are reproduced with exacting detail.    

  You'll experience the great diversity of railroading through the varied routes and engines at your 
 disposal. Train Simulator covers freight and passenger lines, both historic and contemporary. Amtrak's 
 high-speed rail service in the Northeast Corridor gives you a taste of a bustling American commuter 
 line. The Odakyu Electric Railway takes you through the heart of urban Japan. In Japan, you'll 
 also visit the island of Kyushu via the scenic Hisatsu Line of the Kyushu Railway Company. Back 
 in America, you can haul massive freight trains through the Marias Pass in Montana for Burlington 
 Northern and Santa Fe, one of the biggest freight carriers in the world. If you want old-world 
 luxury, head back to the 1920s and take the Venice Simplon-Orient-Express through the Alps. During 
 the same era, you'll dash across the English countryside in the famous Flying Scotsman. Included 
 editors let you alter the routes or create your own.   

  In the contemporary era, you'll control the Dash 9, GP38-2, and KIHA 31 diesel locomotives, as 
 well as the Odakyu 2000 and 7000 LSE series electric engines and Amtrak's Acela Express and Acela 
 HHP-8 electrics. On the historic lines, you'll control the Flying Scotsman and Glsdorf Series 
 380 steam locomotives. While that's certainly a decent selection, it doesn't fully capture the 
 huge diversity of locomotives that have been produced since railroading began. Many rail fans will 
 undoubtedly wish for favorites such as the gargantuan "Big Boy" steam locomotive, the sleek J Class, 
 the tiny narrow-gauge locomotives of Colorado and Maine, the classic F7 diesel -- the list can go 
 on and on. While you can alter the interior cab views of the trains, including the control layouts, 
 the editing programs don't let you import or create completely new locomotives, which reduces replay 
 value.    

 Still, because of the different types of routes and engines that have been included, there's plenty 
 to do. Because the routes are so long and colorful, even the basic exploration mode, where you 
 just ride to your heart's content, offers a lot of enjoyment. When you're ready to get into the 
 meat of the sim, you can tackle various activities that model realistic railroad operations. You 
 can try to stick to a very tight schedule as you load and unload passengers at multiple stations, 
 manage a freight train through bad weather, and conduct complex switching operations in freight 
 yards. In the switching operations, you need to get the right cars from different rail sidings 
 coupled to your train in the right order, which is no easy feat in a large yard with lots of mixed 
 cars. You can also create your own activities. The numerous optional drivers' aids, like a control 
 for the switches immediately in front of and behind your train, help in these tasks, though there's 
 inexplicably no overall detailed track diagram for each route to help you. Also, you can't leap 
 to specific points on each route -- instead, you have to start at a number of set stations.      
      The scenery found in the game is realistic and shown to proper scale.    

  Train Simulator does a superb job bringing the unique sights of the railroads to life. With variable 
 weather and time settings, you'll see trains streak through the night and pass through snow flurries 
 or rain. Each train is carefully and pleasingly detailed. External animated parts add to the authenticity: 
 the pantograph, which draws power from overhead lines to the electric trains, extends and retracts, 
 and the intricate driver rods on the steam locomotives pump in elaborate patterns. And steam and 
 smoke will drift backward in the wind as you pick up speed.   

  The countryside and trackside buildings provide plenty of detailed, memorable scenery, from deer 
 crossing the tracks to tiny churches high in the Alps. Most impressively, mountains actually look 
 to scale, which is a rare feat in games. The Alps really do seem to dwarf your train. You get the 
 same sense of unusually realistic scale when passing through the urban areas, like Philadelphia 
 or Shinjuku. Some texture seams and draw-in occasionally mar the visuals, but they're infrequent 
 enough to ignore easily. You can view the action from a number of external and internal views, 
 including from within passenger cars. From there, though, you'll notice that the game is oddly 
 devoid of any people. Even some static bitmaps at stations would have been nice. The inclusion 
 of animated automobiles on trackside roads helps make up for that omission, though.           Train 
 Simulator is great for anyone with even a passing interest in trains.    

  The sounds of the game are almost a match for the graphics. You'll really feel the power and weight 
 of the locomotives from the engine noises alone, at least inside the cab. Outside, the trains are 
 far too quiet. The shrill whistles of the steam engines and the blaring horns and insistent bells 
 of the diesels and electrics are a treat for the train lover. Subtle touches, like the sound of 
 a piano in an elegant passenger car of the Orient-Express, also add to the immersion.   

  Train Simulator will be a joy for anyone with even a passing interest in trains. The ability to 
 engage in realistic railroad operations and create new routes should appeal to rail fans and model 
 railroaders alike. At the same time, the subject matter imposes some limitations that may not appeal 
 as much to other gamers, at least at first. You won't find the thrilling danger of racing sims 
 or the sheer freedom of flight sims. On the other hand, you will find a finely crafted, meticulous, 
 and often beautiful re-creation of some very colorful trains and railways, with depth to satisfy 
 a hard-core player and simplicity that lets you just enjoy the ride.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (9 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: JGMRACING
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 25, 2008 10:15 am PT
Review:  THIS GAME IS A 10.0 BECAUSE IT HAS VERY GOOD DETAILS, A GOOD LIST OF GOOD TRAINS, (IF YOU GO ONLINE 
 AND SEARCH YOU CAN FIND MORE TRAINS IF YOU WANT SOME MORE. IF YOU WANT TO KNOW WHERE TO START LOOKING 
 FOLLOW THIS LINK: "www. railserve. com") IT HAS A GOOD NUMBER OF CONTROLS, THIS ONLY ONE MISSING: 
 THE PHONE. BUT YOU DON'T NEED IT SO IT DOESN'T MATTER.
  I GOT THIS GAME WHEN I WAS ABOUT 8 AND I PLAYED IT FOR HOURS AND HOURS. IT WAS VERY FUN AND IT 
 WAS THE BEST TRAIN SIMULATOR I HAVE PLAYED SO FAR! IT IS WORTH WHAT EVER IT COST BECAUSE IT IS 
 A GREAT GAME. I WILL SAY IT HAS SOME PROBLEMS BUT IT'S ONLY GRAPHICS AND IT WAS MADE IN 2001 SO 
 IT DOESN'T MATTER. IF YOU NEED EVERY DETAIL JUST PERFECT WELL, GET OVER IT NOT EVERYTHING IS PERFECT 
 IN GAMES. BUT IT'S WORTH AT LEAST A LOOK AT. AND AFTER THAT YOU WILL PROBABLY BUY IT AND JOIN THE 
 MILLIONS OF FANS!
  BOTTOM LINE IS IT'S PERFECT AND THAT IS MY OPINION.
  
  JGMRACING 
::::::

::::::
UserName: titanic100
Rating: 8
Date: May 15, 2008 1:28 am PT
Review:  Train simulator
  
  Train simulator is a very good simulator 
  
  The game play 
  
  You take control of any train that is in this simulator from the Flying Scotsman to a stat of the 
 art modern train.
  
  The graphics 
  
  The graphics are very good, the detail to the trains and to the locations that your train is on 
 and if you go through the country side there are deer usually on the track and they look more like 
 squares and rectangles put together. 
  
  The sound 
  
  The sound is very good if you are driving a steam engine you can really hear the engine puff away 
 as it is getting up to speed and the brakes are good you can hear them screeching along the tracks, 
 also when you blow the horn they are from the rail trains and they sound very good. 
  
  So if you really love train and you don't have the opportunity to drive one get this game you will 
 enjoy it 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tony205
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 5, 2008 2:20 am PT
Review:  This game simply rocks! You couldn't know it was released in 2001!
  Let's see:
  1. Trains: There aren't many trains in the game. You can choose from 2 steam engines (Flying Scotsman, 
 Golsdorf 380) , 3 diesels (GP 38-2, Dash 9, Kiha 31) , 4 electrics (Acela HH-P, Acela Express, Series 
 2000, Series 7000 LSE) . I have downloaded 2 more diesels (SD 40-2, Class 50) . Train consist can 
 vary: there are trains with 50 cars (3 engines) , 25 cars (2 engines) , 10 cars (1 engine but some 
 times are even more!) .
  2. Routes: WOW! WOW! The routes are modeled very realistic and very beautiful. Here they are: Marias 
 Pass, Northeast Corridor, Innsbruck-St. Anton, Settle & Carlisle Line, Tokyo-Hakone and Hisatsu 
 Line.
  3. Graphics: There are just gorgeus! This is the reason why you couldn't know this game was released 
 in 2001. 
  4. Sound: Every engine sounds in different ways (like they should!) . Other sounds are exelent maked: 
 cars, birds tweeting, rain ,snow, etc.
  5. Crashes: The game doesen't feature damage, sometimes trains pass trough buildings when they deraile... 
 The deraile part is exelent and some of them are xtreme!
  Train Simulator: Buy it, play it, enjoy it!
  If Train Simulator was so good, how will Train Simulator 
 2 be??? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: simtim
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 13, 2007 4:21 am PT
Review:  For anyone who enjoys railroads, this game was an incredible release at the time of inception! 
 There were very few up to that time, except for the "Tycoon" series of games. This title takes 
 it one step further  into the cab. Get out your coal shovel and engineer's cap, because this game 
 puts you into the driver's seat!
  
  The idea of the game is simple enough: get into the train and drive away, picking up passengers 
 or dropping off freight. There are several routes to choose from including Amtrak's Northeast Corridor, 
 England's Settle-Carlisle, Burlington Northern Sante Fe Marias Pass, Japan's Hisatsu Line, Japan's 
 Tokyo-Hakone Railway, and Austria's Innsbruck-St. Anton Line. The locomotive choices vary between 
 steam, diesel, and electric. My personal favorite is driving the high-speed Amtrak Acela between 
 Boston and Washington.
  
  In a way, "Train Simulator" is very similar to "Flight Simulator." In the locomotive, the user 
 sits in a "cockpit" with dials and readouts similar to what one would expect in an airplane. There 
 are gauges for speed, throttle, engine load and others specific to the type of train being driven. 
 There are also "unrealistic" gauges that can be turned off which help the driver in train and route 
 management, such as a pop-up which tells the current speed limit, and another which tells the track 
 condition including where passenger stations and freight terminals are. They make it easy to determine 
 when to start slowing down, as that process can take a while. In addition, the train's engineer 
 (you) have the ability to change the junctions (switches) for specific route assignments.
  
  Gameplay revolves around if you were successful in making all your stops on time and within 
 passenger's comfort levels. No actual score is given at the end of a scenario, but a summary will 
 displayed telling the stop times expected vs. the actual time of arrival. Comfort level is indicated 
 via "G" forces, common to aircraft pilots.
  
  The level of detail in graphics presentation is impressive. For its time, the simulation does a 
 nice job with representing the actual routes. In a city, you will see many realistic buildings, 
 roads, cars driving on the roads, parking lots, and basically what one would expect except one 
 curious detail: people. Country areas will also present many of the items one would find in real 
 life including trees, hills, rivers, fields, and even some wildlife. Deer will sometimes be on 
 the tracks and scurry away when the whistle is sounded! The internal view from the cab is nice, 
 but the display from outside is even more impressive! There are several exterior view options available, 
 including tracking views from both ends of your train and a drive-by view. A favorite view of mine 
 is from the inside of passenger cars, so one can imagine being a traveler on the legendry Orient 
 Express! Sound is also very well modeled. Changes in the sound can be heard when changing track 
 blocks, and the outside environment can be heard such as running water, wind, honking cars, and 
 the "ding ding ding" of the bell as the train passes by a road crossing.
  
  The ability to create your own routes is included in the game, however; it is not one of the strong 
 points. It is tedious at best to create a route from one city, and very time consuming. The creation 
 aspect is not simply "point and click," for it appears to be made for experienced programmers. 
 Much of the same can be said for the creation of additional locomotives and cars. However, experienced 
 Gmax users should have no problem with that aspect. With the difficulty in creation, it is fortunate 
 that a few external third-party add-ons for "Train Simulator" have been released. A wide variety 
 in additional routes, locomotives, and cars has been put on the market and greatly enhance the 
 original game. Without these additional assets, a good review would not be possible due to the 
 lack of company-installed activities.
  
  Weather has been modeled in the game, and will sometimes change from sun to rain and vice versa. 
 There are also scenarios that involve snow and ice.
  
  This game can described as "innovating" because of the lack of the genre before its release. The 
 simulation is fun, but after a while it can seem boring because of repetition of driving the same 
 routes and lack of randomization. An online mode would have also been nice. However, the game is 
 very stable and hardly ever crashes. A patch was released to include a few bug fixes and a new 
 locomotive.
  
  After "Train Simulator" was released and was marginally successful for Microsoft, the industry 
 seemed to take notice. In addition to a number of third party add-ons which were released specifically 
 for this title, other simulations appeared on the market. The Auran "Trainz" series was initiated 
 in 2004, and showed just how realistic a trainsim can be. After the cancellation of Microsoft "Train 
 Simulator 2" Auran followed its initial success with "Railroad Simulator 2006," "2007" in the UK 
 and "Classics" in 2007. Microsoft has once again made plans for a follow-on to its original game 
 with a "Games For Windows," completely new title called "Train Simulator" built on the Microsoft 
 "Flight Simulator X" engine. It seems the train simulation genre is here to stay, and we can thank 
 this original game for starting it all.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PokemonMikas500
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 9, 2007 8:24 am PT
Review:  The box looks awesome, and so is the game. I mean, when can you drive a train in real life? And 
 that is how Train Sim is great. It has some bugs, but over all, it is a pleasureable experience. 
 The fanbase for these games is huge. Larger and older then the millions of kids screaming for Thomas 
 the Tank Engine and Pokemon, these people make trains. Yes, fully functional locomotives, cars, 
 and even whole routes! Somebody should make a Train Sim union for everybody out there that loves 
 a good train game and a crazy huge fanbase. I rate Microsoft Train Simulator 10 out of 10 for a 
 kick-*** game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JohnnyGnote
Rating: 7.2
Date: Feb 12, 2007 3:07 pm PT
Review:  I'm a big fan of Aurans Trainz but you have to be a real train nut and have some patients and knowledge 
 of minor programing. Addons are abundant in Trainz but not as much for Mic Train Sim. The graphics 
 are not quite as elaborate but rank highly. There are some pluses and minuses in both wares. Replay 
 is up to how much time you are willing to spend finding and installing addons. there is a whole 
 community of programers (third party) out there all over the world creating addons for this ware. 
 Not for the casual game player and I repeat Must be a train nut. One more thing. If you always 
 wanted to have a huge train set but never had the room to do it. This is the way to go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nalanji
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 25, 2006 7:06 am PT
Review:  Microsoft Game Studios 'Train Simulator' is a very, very cool game. I love playing simulators, 
 (especially aircraft simulators) but this game was a pleasent surprise! It was surprisingly fun, 
 and very interactive.
  
  Gameplay 8/10 ~ Even though you need to follow a track, it is fun due to you have to control your 
 train, and just view the nice scenery provided.
  
  Audio 9/10 ~ The audio is absolutely amazing due to the sounds which are provided. The clacking 
 cars, the horn, the bell, the sound of the railroad crossings across the world... it is just awesome!
 
  
  Graphics 9/10 ~ The graphics for the time of creation were pretty good! Solid, and good looking. 
 Thats all I need when I am conducting a train over the nation!
  
  So, overall, this is a good game! Check it out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blakewiz
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 8, 2006 1:12 pm PT
Review:  This game just goes to show that microsoft knows what they are doing when it comes to sims. This 
 game is tons of fun to play. You can chose between freight or passenger scenarios. There are a 
 few well designed routes and more can be downloaded on the web. Same goes for with the trains. 
 The game has realistic physics. (Train derailments at high speeds) There is also a lot of detail 
 in this game. One of my main beefs is that you never actually get to see your passengers get on 
 or off the train nor do you see them at the train station. Overall, if your looking for a difficult 
 challenge or you want to kill some time Microsoft Train Simulator is a good choice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snowy446
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 24, 2005 6:08 pm PT
Review:  the game is so cool because you can get million of  and my favourite 
 is the cityrail ones and you can find australia trains eg tangara, intercity, and mellinium the 
 site for this is
  http://steam4me. railpage. org. au/trainsim/
  it is a lot of fun train simulator it comes with toyko, flying scotsman, amtrak, settle to carlisle 
 and if you go to train sim. com
  you can get millions of levels like the coal road
  at the steam4me site (link above) you can get the  
 routes you can get
  laperouse in sydney, kiama to nowra, blue mountains, melbourne to ballarat
  the morninton railway, victoria, coals 
 to newcastle
  don't forget to install xtracks and newroads 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
