-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Micro Machines V4
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/driving/micromachinesv4/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 750 cars to collect.
 Some of the tracks are cleverly designed.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 The camera angle makes it impossible to tell where you're going most of the time.
 Generic, uninteresting vehicles.
 Very little room for error in the challenges.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul 14, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.8
Critic Score: 6.0, 23 Review (s)
User Score: 6.8, 178 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Codemasters
Developer: Supersonic Soft.
Genre: Racing
Date:     Jun 30, 2006
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The novelty of racing teeny tiny cars is more than a little bit stale, and so is Micro Machines 
 v4. 

  Micro Machines aren't nearly as popular now as they once were, but the miniature collectible cars 
 are still racing in Micro Machines v4, yet another top-down racing game from Codemasters. It's 
 been 15 years since the original Micro Machines game appeared on the NES, and the formula hasn't 
 changed a bit in all those years. Rather than focusing on bringing the series up to date or even 
 just polishing up the presentation, v4 simply adds more of the same -- a lot more, in fact. This 
 game has more weapons, more tracks, and more cars than you could possibly know what to do with. 
 But for all that content v4 just isn't fun to play. The novelty of racing tiny cars isn't as entertaining 
 as it used to be, which leaves v4 sitting on four flat tires.  

          There are 750 vehicles to collect, but unfortunately most of them are generic and bland. 
     

  The most notable feature of v4 is its impressive array of collectible miniatures. There are a whopping 
 750 cars to collect in the game, and you can even trade them online. The vehicles are divided into 
 25 classes such as concept, muscle, off-road, and even gas guzzlers. You collect these cars by 
 completing more than 75 single-player challenges in the game. The collection aspect of the game 
 makes sense given the Micro Machines license, and it provides you with plenty of incentive to keep 
 playing the game. You can race any of the cars that you've collected, or you can just go into the 
 garage and look at them. The problem is that the cars look very generic and lack some much needed 
 detail. They look blocky and are painted in dull, flat colors, and there isn't much variety because 
 although there are a ton of vehicles in the game, many are just different colored versions of the 
 same model. If you have a decent monitor and can crank up the resolution, the PC version of Micro 
 Machines does look far better than the other versions. The backgrounds and cars look much clearer 
 and detailed, although they still don't look especially impressive. The vehicles don't sound unique 
 either, with a constant and annoyingly high-pitched whine being the universal engine noise in the 
 game.  

  Despite their standardized appearance, the vehicles do handle somewhat differently. Each vehicle 
 has ratings for speed, acceleration, grip, and weight, which all effect how the car moves on the 
 course. The difference between a car with a high speed rating and one with a low speed rating are 
 very noticeable, although with so many vehicles you'll invariably end up racing a lot of vehicles 
 that feel pretty average in their performance. As a result you'll feel like you're driving the 
 same car most of the game until you get behind the wheel of some of the nonstandard vehicles like 
 trucks or dragsters.  

  Regardless of which type of car you drive the racing technique is always the same. You hold the 
 gas button down constantly, powerslide around every corner, and try not to fall off the edge of 
 the track. As in previous Micro Machines games, the tracks you race on are all set in average, 
 everyday places like a kitchen countertop, a garden, or a workbench. The game does a good job of 
 providing a sense of scale, duplicating the  Honey I Shrunk the Kids  effect of having ordinary 
 items that you see every day appear massive and daunting. You'll see giant hair brushes, chickens 
 that seem to be 10 stories tall, rain gutters wide enough to fit three cars comfortably, and so 
 on. Some of the tracks are creative and fun, while others cover the same themes that you've seen 
 in every Micro Machines game ever made.  

  Most of the tracks are quite perilous given the very slippery handling of the cars, a problem that 
 is compounded by the fact that it can be extremely difficult to even see where you're going due 
 to constantly shifting top-down perspective. In the game's battle mode you have to get enough of 
 a lead over your opponent to cause him to leave the screen. In these events the camera zooms out 
 to keep all of the vehicles in the picture, so if you're in the lead you have no view of the track 
 ahead and have to rely entirely on memory to determine when to turn. As soon as one racer drops 
 out the camera finally zooms back in, which is helpful because it usually improves your view of 
 the course, but at the same time the frequent movement of the camera can be disorienting because 
 you never really get the chance to get used to one perspective. Even when the camera stays put, 
 as it does in the standard race mode, it can still be difficult to navigate the courses unless 
 you've driven them several times before and have memorized each turn. If you miss a turn you'll 
 go flying off the edge of the track, and some of the tracks are very narrow and feature plenty 
 of deviously sharp turns. The way that most of the single-player challenges are structured, even 
 one slight mistake is enough to make you fail, so there is very little room for error.  

  There are three basic types of races in Micro Machines. The most common race is the battle race, 
 where you earn points by driving so far ahead of your opponents that they leave the screen. There 
 are also standard three-lap races, and checkpoint races. In the checkpoint races you have to reach 
 the next checkpoint on the track before your time runs out. Passing through a checkpoint earns 
 you more time, but just barely enough to allow you to reach the next checkpoint as long as you 
 don't make any mistakes.  

  While the focus of v4 is on driving fast and staying on the course, there's also a combat element 
 to the game. When you're racing or battling you'll collect items scattered throughout the course 
 that can be used to attack your enemies or heal yourself. There are a variety of weapons, including 
 machine guns, missiles, bombs, and even giant hammers. When you attack an opponent his car will 
 take damage. As the car becomes damaged it drives slower and doesn't handle as well, and if a car 
 takes enough damage it will lose wheels and eventually stop altogether. The weapons add a bit more 
 chaos and excitement to the game, but more often than not it's easier to simply bump an opponent 
 off the track or outrun him than it is to blow him up.  

  Micro Machines v4 supports up to four-players for local network or online games. You can trade 
 cars or participate in battle or straight races. The online game is quick and easy to set up and 
 play, and we didn't notice any significant lag in our online races. The multiplayer suffers from 
 the same problems as the single-player game, but it can be slightly more fun to battle it out against 
 your friends rather than the artificial intelligence in the game, because as with any great multiplayer 
 game, v4 offers plenty of opportunities to completely screw over your friends. When racing in multiplayer 
 it becomes less a matter of racing skill, and more a matter of who can get the best position or 
 weapon, although you can turn power-ups off if you prefer. There's also a track editor in the game, 
 but it doesn't allow you to create entire tracks from scratch. Instead you simply set waypoints 
 to determine the course to be taken around a pre-made track. With only a handful of premade tracks 
 to choose from, the editor doesn't hold much appeal.  

          In most races you'll lose if you leave the track even once, which means you'll need to 
 memorize each and every turn of each and every track to survive.     

  Aside from the online play and the $20 price, the PC version of Micro Machines isn't especially 
 different from the PlayStation 2 version. The higher resolution textures improve the look of the 
 game, but even then it just becomes a shinier version of a bland-looking game. The PC version supports 
 USB controllers, so if you can't bear to use the arrow keys to steer you can map the controls to 
 your favorite game pad. Even if you don't have a game pad, the keyboard controls are manageable. 

  The sheer number of cars and tracks in Micro Machines v4 is impressive, but the actual racing just 
 hasn't held up over the years. Some of the tracks are cleverly designed and are genuinely fun to 
 race, but even then the frustrating camera and loose handling of the vehicles can make for a trying 
 and tiresome race. Even at a budget price, v4 just isn't worth adding to your collection.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (10 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Technocactus
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 3, 2008 3:15 pm PT
Review:  Micro Machines V4 is based on the car-collecting series which has fallen out of fashion. This racing 
 game provides a slice of entertainment initially with its setting, tiny cars racing on everyday 
 environments. This doesn't amuse for too long, but for the first lap or two of each circuit, it's 
 a nice bit of added fun. The collectible cars themselves are surprisingly easy to collect, and 
 it really doesn't take too much effort to reach 750 cars. That said, it's a nice bit of fun, and 
 changing which car to use can help a circuit be entertaining for a few more tries. Cars are divided 
 into categories, each category being able to race on certain circuits. On a circuit, you must use 
 a specific category, but which car you like is up to you (so you must use a Dragster on one circuit, 
 but which Dragster is up to you) . Each category of car is quite different, and you can see the 
 difference between, say, a Hot Rod and a Gas Guzzler. However, in a category, each car is virtually 
 indistinguishable, and changing your car is purely aesthetic.
  Micro Machines V4's biggest undoing is its camera, which frequently makes it near impossible to 
 see where you're going. This isn't so bad on racing or time trial, but in battles, it's really 
 noticeable, and the perilous circuits get harder. The circuits themselves all follow the same plan 
 to beat. Racing through them is really just a matter of knowing where the obstacles are to avoid 
 them, and except for a few shortcuts on some circuits, each circuit is fairly similar, except for 
 its setting, ranging from ships to kitchens, and everywhere in between. The circuits are nice to 
 look at, but all present similar obstacles for you.
  One of MMV4's better aspects is its multiplayer, which is frequently entertaining. It is really 
 in this that the game's weaponry is most fun, and hitting friends and relatives with flamethrowers 
 and hammers is a welcome relief from single player.
  Overall, Micro Machines is a pleasant enough game. The cars and setting are charming, but beneath 
 it is a usually simple (with the odd devastatingly hard mission thrown in, but thew difficulty 
 rarely feels just right) game with a hard camera. Multiplayer is a relief from this, and one of 
 the game's saving graces. If you're a fan of Micro Machines, or if you're bored and looking for 
 a cheap racing game, this is a decent enough game. You may want to pick this up for a few hours 
 of entertainment, but it really isn't worth paying too much for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thommy007
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 7, 2006 3:51 am PT
Review:  I thought this game wouldn't be any good at first. But when I started playing I couldn't stop. 
 I was surprised by the amount of cars like dragsters, sportscars, lowriders (no tanks doesn't even 
 matter cause you have trucks that's good... Right?) I'm a collector type of player I really want 
 too get all the cars that alone is already addicting, but combined with the unique gameplay that 
 I remembered from mashed (on PC) . The tracks look awesome and are very original. They have you 
 race along a roof, a pool table ,or in the bathroom. There are lots of different weapons like the 
 shocker or missiles and multiplayer is great. There is one major downside that really irritates 
 me and that is that I can't choose the type of car when I race in a track. You always race with 
 a prechosen type and that shortens the gameplay a bit. But maybe the had reasons for not making 
 you choose which type you want (Of course it would only work when all the opponents use that type 
 as well) ,But I can't see them at first sight. Luckily you can stil choose the sub class in which 
 you can race so you still have something too choose at least.
  
  All in all this game is very addicting and fun and Gamespot has once again disappointed me with 
 such a low rating : ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nit_0099
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 26, 2006 9:21 pm PT
Review:  if u have a joystick then bother to buy the game. Multiplayer is the only good of this game. Single 
 players is not that fun (unlike revolt) . there are too many cars i. e. u have to play it many times 
 to unlock 750 cars. tracks are 35 (near this) in number. Tracks are well designed (some of them 
 have texture problem while playing on my 6600 GT) otherwise this is the game for revolt lovers (multi-player) . 
 Buy it if u like this game it is not medicore according to the website it is great he he he ehe 
 hehehehehe .still not 100 words i am getting very angry. ok bye then 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zhoutai12
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 14, 2006 8:28 pm PT
Review:  Micro Machines goes back to PS1 where cars were few but had a wide variety of cars. (F1 racers, 
 tanks, etc.) But i must agree that 'many' the cars in this game look very dull and boring. 
  
  The tracks in the game never fail to surprise, as they are always new, the most original place 
 to race in the game is the 'pool table'. Even though the track is different from the first micro 
 machines that was made. [ where are the tanks?!?! ]
  
  Power ups are very cool and neat, most original is the hammer. But now we have life bars.. 3 life 
 bars.. so it always took a while to make ur opponent's car drive really slow without wheels, or 
 go spinning around when using '' the shocker ''. in the PS1 though, u get hit by anything once 
 and your gone! but then is immediately reborn.
  
  And please people, tiny cars are really fun to play with friends, best with four.. this is not 
 a mediocre game.. honest.. this should be a great game that is worth buying for. this game is ranged 
 from kids kids to grown up adults!
  
  enjoy....
  
  from Zhoutai12 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LucasJodoKast
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 5, 2006 3:26 pm PT
Review:  This game is great for Multiplayer but its abit anoying how V4 has neglected to add boats, tanks 
 and helicopters, it seems every micromachines game they release gets slacker each time (no helicopters 
 since V2) (no tanks since V3) (and no boats since MM) if anything you would expect a new racing 
 genre every game (not one less)
  
  The franchise has so much potential for multiplayer gaming that i just feel as though its being 
 wasted by either stupidity or laziness on behalf of the developers
  
  Dont get me wrong this is a great addiction to the Micro Machines series (they are the best multiplayer 
 games you can get) but the problem i have is that it could have been so much better and its almost 
 like they have forgotten about us old school gamers who had so much fun on the originals (still 
 well worth buying though)
  
  (some levels play up on the PC version) so when will there be a patch is my question (graphics 
 glitches on afew of the levels)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wildbilly7
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 22, 2006 12:50 pm PT
Review:  The micro machines games have always been great fun with a group of friends, and this most recent 
 entry is no exception. The experience is definitely similar to 'V3' on the n64, but there's a couple 
 new features that make the action a little more interesting. 
  The damage system in 'V4' is probably the biggest gameplay change. You actually have a damage bar 
 that is chipped away as you are fired upon by opponents. As your vehicle starts falling apart, 
 your speed and control suffer. Shooting your opponent does't take them out of the race necessarily, 
 but it does put them at enough of a disadvantage to turn the tables on the competition (until they 
 are able to grab a repair powerup) .
  Other than the adjustment to the weapon system (which can be disabled for those wanting a clean 
 race) the game is basically V3 with some extra polish. There is definitely increased interactivity 
 in the tracks, the graphics are a little nicer, and the HAVOK physics make for some occasional 
 surprises. The 'downfalls' of V3 are also present though, which may make the game frusterating 
 for some. Unless you've played a track before, you'll inevitably get caught in the many traps and 
 pitfalls that are strewn across each track (thanks to the limited camera view) . The challenge of 
 avoiding these hazards (and pushing your opponents into them) is part of the fun of V4 in my opinion, 
 and generally makes for many intense multiplayer battles. 
  The single player mode isn't really worth your time (accept to unlock stuff) as the computer exhibits 
 a supernatural knowledge of the tracks that makes it annoying to race against. Playing against 
 other humans is a quite different experience though. With a group of friends, some beverages, and 
 a common love for old-school partygames you're just about guaranteed a good time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aureliusmicron
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 22, 2006 6:21 am PT
Review:  Micro machine v4 may not have evolved much but thats no reason to condem the intersting concept 
 it presents, the game is dam fun, and while the camera angles can be tedious at times the gameplay 
 is still great to work through. the best part about this game is the easy get up and go nature, 
 no storyline stress, and remarkable replayability.
  While micromachines is no masterpeice more games should take a note from the simple fast placed 
 and basically fun nonserious gameplay that is overhyped in other games. trust me its much easier 
 than wrapping your brain round a story such as the PREY game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GohanSSJZ
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 20, 2006 4:40 pm PT
Review:  To a lot of people MM V3 and V4 is a big dissapointment, to me they are great.
  
  About 7 years ago i got MM V3 for the Playstation, if discs could be used up, then it would have 
 been, me and a friend of mine played it so much that we knew every race from the top of our hat, 
 and hardly made any mistakes, which resulted that if we played the mode where we had to outrun 
 each other that we would easily go through 3 or 4 laps before someone made a mistake.
  
  2 weeks ago i was looking for games for my mobile phone and saw a Micro Machines for it, although 
 i didn't get it for my phone, i did decide to search this site for which Micro Machines came out 
 after V3, and found this 1.
  
  So i got the game and started installing it, after some weird error it gave me about my PC possibly 
 not being able to run it (even though my PC is way beyond the requirements of the game) i finally 
 could play the game.
  
  The game quickly felt like what i remembered from V3, it was still as fast, nice maps and fun weapons. 
 Having a Xbox360 controller also makes sure the expierence is how it should be.
  
  Graphics wise the game isn't impressive, on the other hand it is Micro Machines, and the whole 
 toy look from not just the cars, but also the enviroment is nice.
  I had no problem turning everything on max at 1280x960 with a Geforce 6800 GT, but considering 
 everything i'm guessing i could do that aswell with the Geforce 4 TI4200 i still have.
  
  The gameplay is excellent, due to the very high framerate everything is completely smooth, and 
 the maps are well made.
  
  The sound is what you can expect from MM, nothing special, but it fits perfectly.
  
  Value 
 wise this game is great, you can spend countless of hours with friends playing this game, the more 
 the better, and with the online function you can also play it with others when you are alone.
 
  
  Still not all is perfect, unfortunaly they removed some parts like the boat races, and although 
 there are a lot of cars in the game, they aren't that exciting, they also removed some fun weapons 
 like the green blob with which you could push others away, which was great.
  There are also still known bugs that were in MM V3 aswell, if you fall down then you aren't out 
 of the race untill you hit the ground, and if you drive off the track while being number 1 into 
 the right direction, then you can win if the others go off your screen, even though you should 
 be dead.
  
  Overall this game is great, it's not perfect, it doesn't look amazing, and there are some flaws, 
 but it's good fun, and i haven't encountered anything so far that has put me off, so if you like 
 Micro Machines, then you should definetly get this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrimBee
Rating: 4.4
Date: Jul 16, 2006 1:47 am PT
Review:  Why is this game not really that good??
  
  Well, because literally you just get treated to a random looking menu system, no inspired artwork 
 or anything, not even a tidy soundtrack!
  
  All of the cars look really really typical, there is no difference between them except the handling. 
 Just think a kind of shoe box with wheels from a distance.
  Up close they dont look so bad, but micro machines has all been about the detail and the imagination, 
 this game fails to capture this completely!
  
  It's more or less, a bunch of random looking generic vehicles, and a bunch of levels, put inside 
 a tree system of death unlocking system, and thats it.
  Its definately not micromachines!!
  
  The first ever game had some sweet music at the beginning of tracks etc, and it had a nice 
 logo and presentation, this has none of that.
  V3 has wonderful presentation and it essencially made a good try at making you believe you were 
 driving micromachines.
  This game makes you feel you are driving just very small cars! If you call this game (small cars) 
 you would essencially not know the difference, or care.
  
  There are no boats, bikes, no imagination at all. And its one of the hardest and most frustrating 
 games to play. Even when you complete it, you have an absolute crappy bunch of 250 cars or so (out 
 of a possible 450 or so) . 
  Once you do all that, there is multi player, which is great for about 5 minutes.
  
  
  I am 
 hoping that one day, someone will totall mod this game up to be like the original.
  
  End of.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brewer74
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 14, 2006 7:53 am PT
Review:  I bought this game less than a week ago and have played it for only about 10 hrs now and I have 
 finished it on all diffuclty levels. That shows you what kind of game it is. It's short but addictive. 
 The arcade racer lives on in this title, much like the original micro machines games on the snes., 
 it is fast and really fun. the new additions of game types and the new cool weapons add some newness 
 but it really is just the old game with better graphics and physics. The locations are similar 
 to the original titles with locations like pool tables, bathrooms, backyards etc. The tracks work 
 well with the racing and the weapons and power ups work well together. Its fun to play but the 
 single player options wear out fast. its a good title to have some fun on though. i go online and 
 have a few races in between games just to get a fix. Its a good title that dose'nt try and change 
 a old but good premise. If you were a fan of the previous games from the 90's then check it out, 
 lots of fun. Play it online though, otherwise its way too short. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
