-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Microsoft Flight Simulator X
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sim/microsoftflightsimulatorx/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 An incredible amount of content.
 realistic enough to be used for real-life flight training.
 missions are a fun challenge for casual gamers and serious simmers alike.
 the entire world simulated in amazing detail.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Low frame rates on most current-day PCs.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 16, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.4
Critic Score: 7.9, 27 Review (s)
User Score: 8.6, 1,856 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Microsoft Game Studios
Genre: Jet Sim
Date:     Oct 17, 2006 &raquo;  
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Microsoft's Flight Simulator X provides a mind-boggling level of depth and breadth -- if you don't 
 mind some less than stellar frame rates. 

  Microsoft Flight Simulator X is an incredible piece of software, providing almost unbelievable 
 capabilities for a consumer product. Unfortunately, on most systems at anything other than the 
 lowest of the game's graphics settings, the simulation has significant performance issues. How 
 much these issues hinder your enjoyment of the game will depend upon what kind of frame rates you 
 need to enjoy a civilian flight sim.  

          Buzzing the strip in Vegas.     

  All of the features hardcore simmers have come to expect in the Microsoft Flight Simulator franchise 
 are here in spades, such as the entire world being modeled in exquisite detail; simulations of 
 everything from ultralights to gliders to Cessnas to commercial airliners to helicopters; realism 
 that makes the sim a great trainer for those seeking a real pilot's license; and more. But Flight 
 Simulator X also adds significant features tailored to the player who would be bored to tears by 
 simply flying from Akron to San Francisco in real time, most notably a series of goal-oriented 
 missions (and an editor that will surely result in a huge number of add-on scenarios) . These include 
 well-done tutorials and many missions with compelling goals and surprising midflight twists. Some 
 are lighthearted fun, such as playing the role of a stunt pilot (complete with announcer) trying 
 to land on a moving bus or racing a jet-powered truck. Others are intense -- for example, trying 
 to fly a chopper to an exploding ocean oil rig and rescue stranded workers. Even simple missions 
 have a compelling nature to them, particularly search and rescue scenarios where you may be seeking 
 a capsized sail boat or a lost camper in snowy mountains. You collect rewards and souvenirs, which 
 is a nice touch that adds an extra incentive to complete the tasks. Even hardcore simmers will 
 find themselves sucked into these missions, wanting to find out just what's behind that clandestine 
 mission flying into Area 51 or what is going to happen on your flight to pick up a famous movie 
 star.  

  There are about 50 missions in the deluxe version of FSX and about 30 in the standard version. 
 The deluxe version comes with 24 airplanes, versus 18 in the Standard version; more high-detail 
 airports, 45 versus 40; more high-detail cities, 38 versus 28; the advanced Garmin G1000 glass 
 cockpit; and the new tower controller module. This last feature lets you step into the control 
 tower and take the role of the air traffic controller in multiplayer mode. While it probably won't 
 keep you out of the cockpit for long, it is an interesting (and stressful) option. And for the 
 record, if you're interested enough to purchase Flight Simulator X, you should go ahead and purchase 
 the Deluxe version. All of the additional content makes it worth the added costs.  

  In addition to the missions, free flight mode provides practically unlimited options. You can select 
 from any of the included aircraft (or add-ons that you may download or purchase) and fly to or 
 from any of 24,000 airports around the world. Not only is it pretty much guaranteed that any significant 
 airport that you'd like to fly in or out of is in the sim, but the odds are also good that your 
 local neighborhood grass airstrip is in there, too. The new high-detail airports show off Microsoft's 
 new "living world" emphasis in FSX. Now when you taxi into one of these featured airports, you'll 
 see fuel trucks realistically dashing from gate to gate, luggage carts driving out to aircraft, 
 Jetways extending to connect with your parked airliner, and more. The new active world extends 
 beyond the airports, as you now can look down while in flight and see moving automobiles and trucks 
 on the roads below. You'll also see a variety of boat and ship traffic while flying over water 
 (buzzing a cruise ship with your 747 provides a special thrill!) and an assortment of wildlife, 
 depending upon your location. While it sounds like a small touch, it does make a significant impact 
 on the feeling that you're flying in a real-world environment.  

          Flight Simulator X gives you a tow plane for your glider.     

  The terrain graphics 
 are significantly improved over Flight Simulator 2004. Higher-resolution textures are especially 
 noticeable in areas such as harbors and coastlines, where the interface between the water and land 
 is much more realistic. The autogen module, which creates terrain in areas that are not explicitly 
 modeled, does a good job of generating ground features and vegetation that are appropriate for 
 both the part of the world being generated and the weather for that location at that time of year. 
 It's very nice to see how the world beneath you changes as you fly, for example, in December from 
 Key West to Chicago. The development team has gone to extremes to make the world in which you fly 
 as realistic as possible, even going so far as to map the stars in their accurate positions for 
 your location and time of year. While it is unreasonable to expect that every feature and building 
 in the entire world will be represented, most major landmarks and even many minor ones are present 
 just about anywhere on the planet that you choose to fly. Weather, a significant factor in any 
 pilot's life, can be set by the user; thus, if you want to test your skills in building storms 
 or just want to see what it's like trying to bring in a 747 in the middle of the night in blinding 
 snow, you can easily set that up. Or you can have the program download the current real weather 
 for the location in which you are flying, with regular real-time updates. For those who are serious 
 about testing their flight skills under precise conditions, you can even go in and set the cloud 
 types, tops and bottoms, coverage, turbulence, icing conditions, precipitation type, density, altitude, 
 wind conditions, and much more. The weather module alone is more sophisticated than you'd ever 
 expect in a commercial, mass market piece of software.     

  Such attention to detail is why serious aviation buffs and anyone who simply wants to see what 
 it's like to fly are so drawn to the Microsoft Flight Simulator series. If you just want to hop 
 into a Learjet and fly from your local airport to Vegas, you can do that without worrying about 
 90 percent of the details. You don't have to actually taxi to any particular runway; you can simply 
 push the throttle forward and take off, then keep an eye on various map options to navigate to 
 your desired destination. But if you want to experience what a real-world pilot does on such a 
 flight, you can develop and file a complete flight plan, go through a preflight check for your 
 particular aircraft, check the weather for the flight path you'll be taking, follow ATC's instructions 
 and taxi to the required runway, and hold until released to take off. Once in the air, you can 
 follow the air traffic controller's instructions all the way to your destination, being handed 
 off from one controller to the next as you progress. You can control all of the navigation equipment 
 in your plane, fly with visual flight rules or instrument flight rules, and manage every detail 
 of the plane's operation via switches and knobs in the cockpit, whether you're in a small Cessna 
 or a huge jumbo jet. There are even options to set up planned or random equipment failures.  

 
          An aircraft carrier is easy -- try landing on a bus!     

  The aircraft in Flight Simulator X are all well done in terms of external and internal graphics. 
 A major upgrade from Flight Simulator 2004 is the virtual cockpit renditions. These are now good 
 enough that you'll spend the majority of your flying time in virtual cockpit mode. Most major controls 
 in the cockpit can be directly clicked on and used, although you can also use keyboard commands 
 if you prefer. Another welcome addition is the inclusion of the sophisticated Garmin G1000 cockpit 
 in some planes (only in the deluxe edition) , which is an integrated electronics panel that replaces 
 most of the conventional controls in standard cockpits.  

  Microsoft has significantly enhanced the multiplayer options via its "shared skies" concept. Multiplayer 
 has long been a major component of Microsoft's Flight Simulator world, particularly among the hardcore 
 fans -- for example, those enthusiasts who would pilot a jumbo jet on an 18-hour flight in real time 
 as a member of a highly organized virtual airline. But as part of its overall push to open Flight 
 Simulator up to the more casual player, Microsoft has made multiplayer simpler to get into, going 
 to a server-based system, adding integrated voice over IP, and incorporating a couple of new features. 
 The first is the ability to have someone fly in the plane with you. This is a great feature for 
 training: An experienced pilot can virtually sit next to you in the cockpit and talk you through, 
 for example, landing in VFR conditions or using advanced navigational controls on a cross-country 
 flight. The other is the previously mentioned ability to join a multiplayer session as the air 
 traffic controller. In this role, you sit in the tower with a visual on the airport and a radar 
 screen in front of you. As in real life, your job is instructing all of the air traffic around 
 you, including takeoff and landing instructions. And as in real life, this is sure to be a high-stress 
 role like at a busy airport.  

          A simple flight out to an oil rig -- or is it?     

  The power of this software package 
 is mind boggling. But that power comes at a price. On a system with an Athlon XP 3400+, 2GB RAM, 
 and an Nvidia 7800 video card (certainly not cutting edge but also not unreasonable, particularly 
 for the broader market to whom Microsoft is trying to reach out with Flight Simulator X) , with 
 performance options all set fairly low, frame rates averaged about 8 to 14 frames per second. This 
 same system runs Flight Simulator 2004 at high settings with frame rates averaging 25-plus fps. 
 In higher-density settings, such as flying over Las Vegas or some detailed airports, frame rates 
 rarely climbed higher than 10fps. When flying fairly high or in low-density areas, rates would 
 range in the high teens. There's a lot of discussion about the sim's performance in the flight 
 sim discussion forums, yielding a variety of config-file tweaks to boost the performance, but be 
 forewarned that it will take some serious high-end hardware to run Flight Simulator X at high frame 
 rates.  

  Is the poor frame rate a killer issue? That's arguable and depends on how much you require in terms 
 of smooth frame rates in a civilian flight sim. Some people may want to wait until tweaks have 
 been established that boost the performance or until they invest in new hardware. Others may decide 
 to put up with less-than-stellar performance to be able to enjoy the amazing content and plethora 
 of rich experiences that Flight Simulator X offers. What is not arguable is that Flight Simulator 
 X provides a quantity and quality of flight simulation capabilities that would be amazing in a 
 product that costs twice the price.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (99 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: cmsru11
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 16, 2009 10:26 am PT
Review:  I have played every MS Fight Simulator since its inception. FSX beats them all. Microsoft put alot 
 of hard work into this game, and you can tell. It has the normal quirks of a MS Flight Simulator 
 game but it has the most planes, the most detailed scenery, and the best game play yet! One of 
 the other amazing things about FSX is how quickly and intensly the flight sim community has embraced 
 the game. There are tons of add-ons for FSX and they are worth every penny you can spend. One of 
 the best parts of FSX to me is the multiplayer capability. You can log on to the in-game server 
 or find servers throughout the internet. Fly with people across the world and enjoy doing it in 
 the best flight sim out there.
  
  I have logged well over 100 hours playing FSX and I have yet to find anything in it that is worth 
 complaining about. Be sure to install all updates and enjoy the game. HIGHLY recommended! Oh, and 
 if you are looking for the most realistic multiplayer action out there, visit FSMP. com. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reinout22
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 26, 2009 6:02 am PT
Review:  To begin with, this is just an amazing game. Now i know that not all pc's can handle it, but if 
 you have a good computer, the scenery is amazing. Now also the things that stick out most are the 
 trees, but if you look at the mountains, cities, airports etc. etc. it's absolutely great. The 
 airplanes are all really detailed, the missions are fun and challenging, and it has a really easy 
 flight planner so there is no hastle in making the plan of your flight. Once you're at the gate, 
 you can either shut down the engines and re-start em for the fun of it or just contact the ATC 
 so you can get going. Once you're in the sky, you can just sit back and relax while watching the 
 autopilot do your work for you. After a fun (and maybe long) flight, you will be happy that you 
 landed the correct way (which has never happened to me :p) you can contact the ATC for clearance 
 to taxi to the gates and finish up your flight. Now, the missions are also very fun and challenging, 
 like having to fly an airplane onto a bus or landing without both engines. The multiplayer is also 
 very fun. I'ts always fun to fly in formation with your friends or if you're bored with the default 
 ATC, then if you're lucky somebody will be ATC for you. But having said all that, there are also 
 some negative things. Like loading times can be loooong, bad frame rates, and sometimes just some 
 weird things. But if your computer can handle it, then it shouldn't happen to often. I really think 
 for all those flight-enthusiasts or all those pilots out there, this is a must have. There are 
 tons of freeware and payware add-ons to enhance your flight. Seriously something that every pilot 
 and wanabe-pilot (or whatever way you spell it...) must have if they have a computer that can handle 
 it. 9.9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alexnollent
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 23, 2008 7:12 am PT
Review:  The Flight simulator series has always been a favourite of mine because there are no other games 
 with as much depth and scenery.
  
  Top 6 good things:
  Loads of planes
  Nearly all controls on the planes are functionable
  Over 25,000 airports 
  Great AI 
  Good 
 enough for real flight training
  Great flight lessons
  
  
  Top 5 bad things:
  You need at least 15gb to install the game fully!
  Low frame rate on most modern day pcs
  Some 
 bugs
  Quite hard to get the hang of
  Some lag with online play
  
  Conclusion:
  FSX is a great game which is worth buying if you have a top of the range pc, but with normal pcs 
 you are going to get some lag, but i would still buy it.
  Also, don't buy add-ons if your pcs hard disk is small such as flight simulator x acceleration 
 which is the official add-on for fsx which takes up another 15gb. Even if you dont have a great 
 computer, i would still buy it. This is truly the best flight sim ever! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fandom888
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 1, 2008 2:41 am PT
Review:  Microsoft's Flight simulator is a popular jet sim game series which exist for about a decade now. 
 This new installment, though, of the series is the highest summit.
  
  First of all, I am displeasured with the system requirements of the game, the huge files needed 
 for the installation (15 GB) , and the lower performance in WinXP.
  But apart from all these, the game is great.
  
  The realism of the game touches perfection, 
 especially when you have a brand-new graphics card and turned into high resolution. 
  
  Controlling your plane is not that easy. Actually, it turns out to be more challenging than real 
 life, sometimes. The controls of the keyboard are not to be familiarized with, so you'd better 
 go and buy a joystick (which works perfectly well) .
  
  In the menu, there are many tutorials which will learn you how to fly easier, and a great variety 
 of missions, which are supported with a briefring and a helpful map.
  There are missions for every kind of player, from a newbie to FS fanatic, but all of them finally 
 reward you with a medal or trophie, if you succeed.
  
  As I said before, the visuals are stunning, but only in condition you do have a respectable GPU. 
 The sounds of the game are good as well, so realistic I can say. For example, the sound you'l hear 
 outside of your jet and when in the panel differs.
  
  Flight Simulator X is another amazing game of the series, with Microsoft proving their pedigree 
 once again. I hope the next sequel (and I am sure that I will be right) will break every past record. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: awesomejdude
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 15, 2008 4:53 pm PT
Review:  Prepare for takeoff! Flight Simulator X is an amazing game. Let me explain each area in detail 
 :
  
  Graphics:
  
  The graphics are amazing. The airplane models look real. If you are flying over the ocean a reflection 
 of your plane will appear on the realistic water. It's a very neat effect. The airport graphics 
 are amazing as well. There are terminals, control towers, jetways (more on this later) , airport 
 vehicles, and other traffic at the airport you choose to fly at. They all look real, and add to 
 the amazing graphics. Oh, and if you're flying over a highway, you'll see cars driving on the road. 
 I'll cover these more on the realism section.
  
  Sound:
  
  The sound here is great. When you throttle the engines up, you'll think you're in a real plane. 
 You can hear the landing gear go up and down, you can hear flaps extending, etc. Everything you 
 could wish to hear in a flight simulator to hear, you can hear. The sound is realistic and is different 
 for every plane, so I doubt there will be many complaints about it. When you're in the cockpit, 
 you can also hear warnings.
  
  Replay Value:
  
  This game never gets old. Why? Simply because you can never run out of things to do. There are 
 missions, which are pretty fun that you can complete. The main thing here though is Free Flight. 
 You choose a plane, an airport, the weather and time, and take off. Want to take off a Boeing 747 
 in the middle of a snowstorm? You can do that. Want to fly a Cessna 172 in perfect weather around 
 a mountain? You can do that. You get to choose. You can create flight plans and simulate an airline 
 flight if you want. Additionally there are failures. (Fire, engine failure, electrical failure, 
 fuel leak, etc.) The possibilities are literally endless. There's always something new to do or 
 try. 
  Customizability:
  This game is highly customizable. You can download new planes online. Additionally you can download 
 new sounds, effects, scenery, cars, repaints, and quite a few other things I'm sure. 
  
  Realism:
  
  This is the main area I want to focus on. Flight Simulator X is amazingly realistic. 
 Let me start by talking about the airport. At the airport you have got terminals, taxiways, runways, 
 etc. That probably doesn't surprise you. You, however, have also got jetways that can be attached 
 to your plane. You have a pushback truck when you're ready to leave the gate. You can call a refuel 
 truck to come refuel your plane. You have various other airport vehicles that will be riding past 
 while you taxi. (Additionally you can have other computer-controlled airplanes that can taxi and 
 takeoff and land.) It really feels like you're at a real airport. Speaking of which, thousands 
 and thousands of airports are in this game, so you can probably find any airport you want and take 
 off from it or land at it.
  Controls here can be realistic. You can set the game up to be as easy or as hard as you want it. 
 You can choose whether you want crashes enabled. If you buy a computer flight yoke and/or rudder 
 pedals, that will make it even more realistic. (You'll feel just like you're flying a plane!) Most 
 everything can be controlled, adding to the realism.
  The plane models are great. In the cockpit, you can choose to have a 2 dimensional panel that displays 
 all the instruments plus you can click on any of the icons to bring up more controls (such as the 
 throttle) . Also you can fly in the "virtual cockpit" which is a 3D panel that looks like a real 
 cockpit. (Thus the name.) You can move around it, and most virtual cockpits are fully clickable. 
 I personally usually fly in 2D mode since I find it easiest to navigate and use. Try both out and 
 see which one you prefer. Outside the plane looks, well, like a real plane.
  In the air it looks great. The clouds are realistic. I love the reflections that appear when flying 
 over water. While in the air if you look down you can see that the scenery looks great no matter 
 where you're flying.
  
  Note if you have a lower end system:
  
  You need a pretty high end computer to run this game. If you have a lower end system, you can adjust 
 the visual settings, but the game might not look as good, and you may not get some features such 
 as the water reflections and jetways.
  
  In conclusion:
  
  Flight Simulator X is one of my favorite games. Whether you are new to Flight Simulator or not, 
 you will love this game. If you've ever wondered what it's like to be a pilot, definitely check 
 out this game. Just make sure you have a pretty good computer. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Karthik1994
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 6, 2008 7:51 am PT
Review:  Microsoft Flight Simulator X is a great game. it has included more than 24,000 airports. The environments 
 are very highly detailed. You can also fly past The Great Pyramids of Egypt, Leaning Tower of Pisa, 
 Ayers Rock etc....!!!!! There are 18 highly detailed aircrafts which include the Boeing 737, Boeing 
 747 etc.... and 30+ missions. But it has a few drawbacks. It suffers from poor framerates but they 
 have released service pack 1 to fix the problems. but there is no significant improvement though. 
 Microsoft Flight Simulator X is not perfect. It could have been better. It also swallows 15GB of 
 hard drive space which I think is the highest for any game. There are so many add-ons available 
 to download. You need atleast 2 hours to get used to the controls of the game. It is complicated 
 but a fun game nonetheless. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Toxic8
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 26, 2008 12:40 pm PT
Review:  I have played every ms flight sim since the floppy disk and sim x is the best to date. But there 
 is a catch. You will need a stought rig to run it with all the graphics settings on high.
  The game is basically unchanged except for the addition of a couple of new planes and some ground 
 scenery. I am at a loss of what to write on here so ill keep babbling on. The addition of missions 
 and whatnot make the game more interesting but some of which can take hours to finish. Although 
 you can speed up the game and cheat but that takes the skill factor out of playing it in the first 
 place.
  The sounds are about the same in everyway and like i said earlier you will need a powerful pc to 
 run it on maxed out settings.
  But this is the best flight sim out there and for people that are trying to work on their pilots 
 license this gives you a good start. Thank goodness for user added planes and scenery. That is a 
 great feature about the flight sim community. As well are virtual airlines. Maybe ms will add an 
 aircraft builder on the next one so users can design and build their own aircraft.
  Just not enough new content to warrant a higher score imo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Human_Flaw
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 24, 2008 12:18 pm PT
Review:  Microsoft Flight Simulator X (10) marks the 25th Anniversary of the venerable flight simulator 
 series started in 1982, by the Redding, WA, software giant.
  
  As expected, Flight Simulator X (FSX) improves on FS 2004: A Century of Flight, and previous installments 
 of the series. Air Traffic Control (while still not a hundred percent authentic) , offers a much 
 more robust and interactive experience than previous games. There are now ground vehicles like 
 concession trucks, baggage carts and pushback trucks present at major airports to allow simulation 
 pilots the more realistic experience of ground operations pre, and post-flight. In addition, retracting 
 jetways also add to the immersion when at major hubs when piloting some of the larger jets like 
 the A380 Airbus, or 747-400.
  
  Improvements to FSX aren't just limited to airports and ground operations, either. FSX has a completely 
 new graphics engine that takes advantage of DX10 for those who play on Vista, but that also increases 
 the overall fidelity and realism of the simulated world for DX9 users as well.
  
  For example, when flying over densely populated urban areas like Los Angeles, or New York, you 
 will see an infinite number of three dimensional houses, buildings and other structures you would 
 normally expect to see in these areas. Gone are the days of blurry one dimensional textures that 
 are supposed to represent the tops of buildings, streets, etc. The other new feature FSX has flows 
 directly into this and that is you will now see cars and trucks navigating the streets and major 
 highways that run between those urban structures as well. In contrast, when you fly over more remote 
 areas like the Pacific Northwest, you will see hills and mountainsides landscaped with lush, green 
 3D vegetation (trees; bushes; grass) appropriate for the region. This attention to detail makes 
 FSX one of the best flight simulators to date for its pure beauty alone. In fact, with all the 
 graphics settings turned to full FSX can often times be more photo-realistic than "Crysis" and 
 similar games.
  
  As far as the actual game play is concerned, the newest addition to the Flight Simulator series 
 are the new scripted missions that give beginning and veteran pilots more of a reason to fly various 
 aircraft they've never flown before and visit various places they've never been to. These missions 
 are divided into various categories (Beginner; Intermediate; Advanced; Expert) and range from standard 
 first-time flying tutorials to more advanced (and sometimes dangerous) missions that require mastery 
 of a specific aircraft to complete a specific task. For example, one expert level mission has you 
 in a Cessna 172 in the middle of a raging snow storm, near-zero visibility, high in the mountains 
 as you help Ski Patrol locate a lost hiker before he freezes to death. Another one has you simply 
 taking an empty airliner from one airport to another as a way to familiarize yourself with how 
 to fly jumbo jets. Many in the FS community have chided MS for adding scripted missions because 
 they feel it makes FS more like a regular game than a simulator. Regardless, the good thing about 
 the missions is they are appropriate for their difficulty level and never overwhelm the player. 
 If you play them sequentially from beginner to expert you learn actual skills you can use when 
 in Free Flight mode -- The main mode FS has built itself on over the years; The "Fly Anywhere" 
 mode -- That helps make Free Flight even more enjoyable. This alone makes FSX the best version 
 of FS for complete beginners.
  
  However, all of these new features like the jaw-dropping visuals come at a steep price. 
  
 
  As mentioned in previous reviews, the game requires a lot of horsepower (hardware) to run with 
 many of these features enabled at the same time and at their highest setting. It should be noted 
 a fast CPU (3.0GHz) or above is recommended along with at least, a mid-range graphics (Nvidia 8800; 
 ATI 3870) card for optimal performance. FSX depends more on a faster CPU than a high-end video 
 card because of the constantly streaming environment data as well as the constant real-time calculations 
 being made to simulate the aerodynamics of flight. So, anybody looking to get into FSX would be 
 wise to invest the fastest single, or dual core CPU available and either a high-end, or mid-range 
 video card to achieve optimal performance. If not, FS2004: A Century of Flight will probably be 
 the better choice. FS2004 is five years old and can be run on most modern hardware with almost 
 all settings on max. This would be the only real flaw FSX has in terms of its technical merits: 
 It still is not properly optimized (even after two Service Packs (patches) ) to run at levels most 
 gamers expect given current levels of hardware. It will not be until Intel, or AMD release 4.0GHz 
 chips that one will be able to fully utilize FSX's untapped level of realism and visuals.
  
  The only other flaws FSX has are minor and even these are debatable (subjective) . They mainly 
 have to do with the age old debate, "How real can a computer flight simulator be compared to flying 
 a real plane?" and center around FSX being a piece of software and not a real plane subject to 
 real world forces. For the sake of fairness, it should be noted some of the included planes are 
 inaccurately modeled in terms of presentation. Also, some of the aerodynamics (handling) and procedures 
 are not 100% accurate like the use of the GPS and ILS landings, but they are as close as they can 
 be for a game of this magnitude that tries to be as realistic as it can be given its scope while 
 still being accessible to armchair pilots around the globe.
  
  I highly recommend FSX for anybody who is interested in flight simulators and is either a veteran 
 of the series, or a complete newcomer to the genre as a whole. 
  FSX has a lot to offer everyone, regardless of skill level, as long as you have the right hardware 
 to run it well and have the time to experiment with what settings work best with your specific 
 system configuration. It will give you hours and hours of flying enjoyment and being able to travel 
 to places around the world you normally would not want to go, or cannot afford to go to in real 
 life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cuda418
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 22, 2008 11:44 pm PT
Review:  It looks better then 2004 and has many other areas polished like traffic and ground traffic, water 
 looks much better. The main problem is its a pig on resources. I have seen some reviews that mention 
 specs but most have you wasting money. FSX is a CPU hog just like earlier games of this series. 
 Sure you want a decent graphics card but there is no need to go SLI for this game. Ram is cheap 
 and if you are running Vista 3-4GB is a good idea anyway. I would recommend a E8500 core 2 duo, 
 they are cheap and can be easily clocked to 4+ which is screaming fast. And its this CPU power 
 the game needs more then anything else, that along with 3-4 GB ram and ONE decent mid-to-high end 
 video card will do the trick, you can run it wide open. The GTX260 has over 800+MB ram and is more 
 then enough for this game. Think CPU-motherboard. Again I would go ASUS with a E8500 and clock 
 to 3.7-4.2. Throw on a decent 300-400 dollar video card and even this game will be tamed. 
  
  Using your existing monitor you can build a system to deal with this game for under 1500 easy 
 instead of spending that just on two high end video cards only to have the CPU not be able to keep 
 up. An overclocked E8500 will smoke many of intels $800 chips with ease. 
  
  Game is awesome running wide open, if you need more power do some research first. 2 High end graphics 
 card with an average CPU will do nothing as this game wails on CPU. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jatly0
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 9, 2008 12:00 pm PT
Review:  Microsoft have out done themselves bringing this new Flight Simulator to town. The graphics are 
 just amazing and are much better with the new expansion pack and Direct X 10. If your computer 
 is able to keep up with tha game that is. I have to play on a lower detail but even on a lower 
 detail, the game still looks great. Microsoft has used really life buildings in all of the towns 
 and cities instead of completely generic buildings everywhere.
  The physics engine in this game is also top of the line. All the aircraft feel completely real. 
 Taking a sharp turn at a high speed will act differently than taking a sharp turn at a lower speed, 
 obviously. You will feel all of the turbulent bumps as well as the bumps on the tarmac and runways. 
 The wind direction and speed also play a big factor in the way the aircraft handles. You will also 
 be able to feel the difference in a heavy landing or a light landing. Not one feature is over-looked.
 
  All flight enthusiasts should own this game! You do not need a $5,000 to play this game in good 
 detail. The in-game missions are very challenging. From first take-off and landings to mountain 
 rescues. Once you are able to handle the landings perfectly, you will be able to sail through the 
 sky with no worries. You will not be let down once you start to play this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daplipsta
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 8, 2008 4:49 pm PT
Review:  There is no doubt at all that Microsoft's Flight Simulator X is an amazing game. The only problem 
 is that many computers just can't run it very well. About 6 months ago I bought FSX, after the 
 price dropped a bit. Before X I had FS2004, which my computer could handle with the graphic almost 
 maxed. When I got home, my jaw dropped to the floor as I discovered that the game required 15 megabytes. 
 After I bought a new hard drive, the game took about 10 minutes to load the first free flight I 
 did, and when it was finished, it was so glitchy it wasn't possible to fly. So I dropped the graphics 
 down to minimum and found to my dismay that the overall game quality with the graphics so low was 
 less than that of FS2004.
  
  Overall, I'm not at all unhappy with the game, but if you don't have the best graphics card or 
 processor speed, I would recommend just buying FS2004 for $10 less. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ian_everall
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 17, 2008 1:57 am PT
Review:  Microsoft Flight Simulator X has very good graphics if you have the power to run it at the highest 
 quality on everything which the computer for that would cost you a bomb, their loads of website 
 for add-ons so you don't just have to stick to the standard planes some add-ons do cost but there 
 is quite a lot of free ones which isn't that bad, if you are thinking about buying it go for the 
 deluxe edition there lots more extra and its only a little bit more expensive but you will get 
 more fun out of it, if you want to play this at full quality I advise building a custom pc along 
 these lines : 3.2GHz AMD processor, MSI motherboard, 4GBs of RAM, 2x Asus ATI Radeon HD 3870 X2 
 1024MB graphics cards, Creative Sound Blaster X-Fi Elite Pro 7.1 Sound Card and a Logitech Z-5500 
 THX Certified 5.1 Speaker System it works a treat also it has left over power to run to FSX cockpit 
 add-ons. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: titanic100
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 3, 2008 1:36 am PT
Review:  Microsoft flight simulator X
  
  Microsoft flight simulator X is one of the best flight simulators there is.
  
  Microsoft have 
 done very well with their new flight simulator it is 10 times better than the others. 
  
  The Game play 
  
  You have a choice of doing missions or a free flight, the Missions start 
 off very easy and the tutorials are very easy it tells you how to fly a aircraft such as a Plane 
 and a helicopter, but you have a the choice to do what ever you want to do, you also have a choice 
 on what aircraft you want to fly and if you are doing the missions it will give you the aircraft 
 for the mission but if you are in free mode you can choose what you want to fly. 
  
  The Graphics 
  
  The graphic if you put them on ultra high are excellent and very well detailed 
 and realistic, when you are at an airport terminal there are vehicles going around the airport 
 and they are very well detailed as-well. 
  
  The sounds 
  
  The sounds are very good everything is a lot better and more realistic when you power up your engines 
 or start them they start like a real engine would, and it takes time for them to start and if you 
 don't start them correctly they will fire but then shut down and power down. 
  
  I say that this game is very well designed and built and I hope there will be more flight simulators 
 in the future. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: WiiRocks66
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 23, 2008 1:15 pm PT
Review:  The Good- Flight Simulator X is an amazing game. The graphics are amazing, over 24,000 airports 
 are in the game, there's an immense amount of scenery, a good bit of aircraft, the aircraft included 
 are very nice, and so much more. I said the difficulty is hard because the game's challenging. 
 I've worked my way up from the Ultralight to the 747, but it took me a LONG time. There's many 
 missions and tutorial included. You can also go online and play multiplayer. But the best mode, 
 IMO, is free flight. In free flight, you can fly anywhere you want in any plane you want, and with 
 whatever weather, time, and whatever season you want to fly in. Going through missions, tutorials, 
 and just flying earns you rewards and records. 
  
  The Bad- You need a good computer to be able to run it with good graphics and still have a flyable 
 frame rate. Also, the game has a few glitches, and even more on Vista, but the game isn't ruined 
 with glitches and still works with Vista. And Gamespy is the online session host, but it isn't 
 very good. These are the only complaints I have about the game.
  
  Overall, this is a pretty good game. If you have the hardware to run it, and have even a small 
 interest in flying, then get it. I've showed some people who don't care about flying, and thought 
 the game was stupid at first, but now most of them own the game and play it often. my recommended 
 hardware to run the game is:
  Processor- Intel, dual core or quad core, with a speed of 2.0 ghz or higher 
  RAM- 2gb or more
 
  Video Card- ATI or nVidia (not integrated) with at least 256mb of video memory, hardware T&L, and 
 pixel and vertex shader 2.0 or higher.
  This won't run the game on high settings, but you'll get decent graphics and a decent framerate. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beardie27
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 9, 2008 3:14 pm PT
Review:  Microsoft have pulled a great one out of the hat with this, it really has pushed the boundaries 
 of graphics and just amazes every user. It really makes other flight simulators look rubbish compared 
 to this, with new options like missions, multiplayer lobby and pilot records it reels in people. 
 The game allows great graphics for the airports and aircraft, they look close to real. Both 2d 
 and 3d cockpits are pleasing to all and the usability is immense. The game has so much to offer 
 to the user enabling lots of game play. The selection of planes available drowns the gamer in selection, 
 resulting in a wide range of options. Even though this game needs a brilliant computer to run because 
 of its high demand, it still pleases the average user. It makes you feel like a real pilot and 
 a game that makes you feel like you are really there is a game that will never be forgotten.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Davyvfr
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 5, 2008 7:30 pm PT
Review:  I would highly recommend Flight Simulator X to many pilots and just normal or hard core gamers. 
 With Direct X 10 and even Direct X 9 make the game look stunning. Flight Simulator X cost about 
 $40 and can be brought at most stores nationwide. With over 100,000 airports, over 15 aircraft, 
 and the amazing scenery make Flight Simulator X a game to play.
  First of all, with over 100,000 airports, you can fly anywhere you can think of. Paris, Los Vegas, 
 anywhere and anytime. Heathrow airport its one of the biggest airports in the world. With Flight 
 Simulator X, it is the most amazing. 
  Secondly, Flight Simulator X has over 15 aircraft. Ranging from the Cessna to a 747-400. The fun 
 never ends. Try landing in a dust storm for a challange or just take a nice flight on a Cessna 
 172 around Hawaii. There are so many possibilities to choose from. 
  Finally, FSX has the greatest scenery graphical game of the year 2006 and today many enjoy the 
 great wonders of the world. With over 100,000 airports, over 15 aircraft, and the amazing scenery 
 make Flight Simulator X one of the worlds most graphical games to be realeased.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lukanian-7
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 27, 2008 8:34 am PT
Review:  First of all, I would like to say that this is indeed a very prestigious game, so much, to the 
 point of its own categorization. However there are some things I found to be quite unprofessional.
 
  
  One thing i found my self griping about, was the unprofessional feel to the game, now i know it 
 is very realistic, however it just does'nt feel as "polished" as most retail video games. Such 
 as the instability of the game, and the low frame-rates, it just seems it was a rush-to-release 
 game. And the slow menu navigation was a little bug, but I can live with that, it's just the Online 
 Networking! I swear, it makes me want to kick a newborn; each time you log on, your instantly kicked 
 right off, and after an hour of frustration, you log on... and it works! You try to join a server 
 and it crashes again. I found this to be very puzzling, as it used Gamespy.
  
  Then again, the game is indeed very realistic, and good looking, at least within the 2 FPS you 
 can see seemed to be impressive. But the fact that it is completely "sandbox-oriented" is what 
 makes this game fun. And gives a very in-depth simulation as to doing what a real pilot (or Co-Pilot) 
 would do. and you don't really need to know much about planes at your first start, but if you are 
 even a real pilot you can crank up the realism settings and have a field day. And this is why M-FS 
 has always been a great game, and always will be for the time-being they continue to release these 
 games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marth8880
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 26, 2008 12:27 pm PT
Review:  To start off with, a lot of people are starting to think that Flight Simulator 2004 is better then 
 Flight Simulator X. NOT TRUE. Well, in a few small cases, this is true, but just barely. For example, 
 the crashes ARE a LOT more amazing in the previous Flight Simulators. Like in X, all that happens 
 when you crash or your aircraft gets overstressed is your aircraft just immediately stops and it 
 says "CRASH!". I REALLY think that the crashes should be a lot like crashing in IL-2 Sturmovik. 
 You can actually jump out of the plane and go on to the ground and even in a parachute if you're 
 in the air. There may not be weapons on any of the aircraft in X. But it after all is a Simulator. 
 The helicopters in X are quite realistic. For instance, if you keep turning too sharply, then your 
 helicopter will start spinning out. Landing is quiet difficult, but eh, when hasn't it lol. It's 
 only truly difficult to land with the much much faster and larger aircraft. So overall, I would 
 rate this game a 9.0. I WOULD recommend this game to a friend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: badkarma77
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 7:51 pm PT
Review:  I have mixed feelings writing this review. I'm older than most here but probably close to the same 
 age of most serious flight simmers. I've owned and flown every flight sim released by Microsoft 
 including the ones created by SubLogic in 1980 (some say1979) . All, in my opinion, have been great 
 for their time. When I read the previews and saw the screen shots for FSX, I sat in amazement, 
 mouth ajar and drooling. My only concerns were the steep system requirements and the idea of adding 
 missions to the game. I was afraid that too much concentration or focus would be placed on the 
 missions in order to draw in a new group of buyers that they would lose touch with what I've loved 
 most about all of the Microsoft Flight Sims in the past  and that is realistic flying. I tried 
 the demo and was less than pleased. The graphics were horrible compared to FS2004 and my frame 
 rates were in the teens. I then participated in the BETA testing and things were somewhat better 
 but not much. What I found while testing the BETA is that I really enjoyed the missions. What a 
 pleasant surprise. After the sim was released, I purchased the deluxe edition. Being an Air Traffic 
 Controller in real life I wanted to try this feature out only offered in the deluxe edition. Graphically, 
 the final release copy isn't much better than the BETA. In my opinion FS2004 looks better and I 
 get better frame rates. I'm sure it would look better if I had a monster PC but it just doesn't 
 make since to me that it looks worse than FS2004 but also has lower frame rates than FS2004. Another 
 thing that puzzles me is that FSX does not support Dual Core CPUs or SLI and Crossfire. How can 
 one expect great frame rates at higher settings if the sim doesn't support the latest technology? 
 So, I've read many forums and I've tweaked the settings as best I could to get the best performance. 
 I still enjoy the missions and Microsoft was able to maintain the realistic flying that I was hoping 
 for so I'm keeping this one. The sim is still fun to fly and I really like the new added touches 
 even if it doesn't look like the stunning screen shots found here and on other websites. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TunerSkyline92
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 11:30 am PT
Review:  Awesome game! I thought it would easy to set up the control and etc. It was hard than I thought! 
 Very challenge. Everything was just right! It's fun to fly with airplane and many different airplane. 
 IT have real life time. You can pick and map and pick real life time and you will fly the airplane 
 in there, for example, it's snow in China and you want to fly in China, and it's snow in China 
 in your game! Just awesome!
  
  By the way, I dont know about sound, because I am deaf and I cant hear. So, i dont know what look 
 like it hear. Thanks.
  
  Buy this game! I graduated you, you will play it for long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jojoman333
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 18, 2007 5:24 am PT
Review:  Oh, look FSX for just 30 euros.
  Then I bought it. I installed it, I started playing on a resolution of 1440x900 with half of the 
 settings on High and the other half on Ultra. What a beauty, let's see how my plane looks from 
 the outside, very nice too, now let's get flying. I'm switching back to my VC-view, and kapoow 
 : CRITICAL ERROR !
  
  While playing, just look at the landscapes, the aircraft, this is what I call art. But this art 
 is very buggy. I'm happy when I run at for half an hour without critical error. But it's still 
 a great game to play, with add-ons then. Cause the aircraft Microsoft puts in are just as crappy 
 as they were in the previous episodes.
  
  So: If you have the hardware to run it well (well=  High) it's a nice product. But what you can 
 see that it's made for Vista, it's as buggy as Microsoft's new OS.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: simtim
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 10, 2007 9:32 pm PT
Review:  So you love aircraft but don't have the opportunity or money to hop in a CRJ700 at your local airport? 
 No problem! Fly Microsoft Flight Simulator on your computer instead....!
  
  Seriously, Microsoft has been making Flight Simulator since before Windows existed. This is the 
 culmination of 20 years worth of versions starting in the early 1980's. This product has nearly 
 everything one would expect plus a few surprises. There is a large selection of aircraft (from 
 single-engine props to heavy multi-engine jets, helicopters, and historical planes) and more can 
 be added simply by searching the popular flight simulation related web sites. No weapons can be 
 fired from the aircraft, making it mainly a civilian flight simulation. So if you are looking for 
 a dogfight, this is probably not for you; although, support is added for possible releasable objects 
 from your aircraft.
  
  A very nice touch this time around is the missions. FSX has taken note of other games in which 
 awards are given after completing a task. In this simulation, awards and certificates are given 
 to the pilot after completing missions and goals. For instance, "Tin Wings" are presented to the 
 user for successfully landing for the first time. A Private Pilot certificate is presented once 
 the user has completed the flight training course. And other awards are given to the pilot for 
 completing specific missions, like being offered a contract from a flight demonstration squadron 
 after completing the Red Bull course in record time! Having many missions to complete keeps the 
 simulation fresh and fun.
  
  The scenery itself is immaculate! As you are flying you will see trees and houses in the suburbs 
 and buildings and streets in the cities. This is not new - but what is, is that there are cars 
 on the roads, birds in the air, whales in the ocean, and elephants in the Sahara! This is what 
 Microsoft calls a "living environment." Ships are at sea. Harbors buzz with activity from pleasure 
 craft and sailboats. Speaking of sailing, sail-planes can go far in the simulation, since updrafts 
 are properly modeled for the first time in Flight Simulator, giving non-powered pilots a chance 
 to go gliding on the winds. As an added bonus, a tow plane is required to get you airborne instead 
 of starting from mid-air like in previous versions.
  
  Multi-player is quite fun in the version. Support for multi-player is included in the game, including 
 voice transmission from the cockpit, instead of needed additional software for the task. The user 
 can either be a pilot, or act as an Air Traffic Controller and peer down from the tower.
  
  With all this fun stuff going on in the game, is there anything bad to write? Well, I'm afraid 
 so. Unless you are running a high-end PC, it will be very difficult to use these cool features 
 or even see the beautiful scenery. Sliders are included to allow the user to scale back processor-eating 
 features like AI traffic and scenery intensity. But if you cannot see the scenery, what is the 
 point of the software? On a basic system, you can expect to get a frame rate of 15 frames per second 
 or less. That is barely adequate to fly a plane. Mid-range systems can expect 17 to 25, which is 
 for the most part ok. The more memory you have, the faster your processor, the more up-to-date 
 your video card, the better your copy of FSX will work. Microsoft boasts of even better-looking 
 scenery with Microsoft Windows Vista and DirectX 10. In Microsoft's defense I can say that this 
 situation has ALWAYS occurred with EVERY version of Flight Simulator. It is always on the cutting 
 edge of technology, pushing the boundaries of how realistic PC flying can be. Just about the only 
 thing missing from this simulation are passengers for your planes. If you are considering this 
 simulation and do not have an up-to-date computer, consider getting the previous version (Microsoft 
 Flight Simulator 2004: A Century of Flight) since even though it was cutting edge at the time of 
 its release, nowadays high-end systems can easily run circles around the frame rates. Besides, 
 it still is fun! (I personally run a copy of FSX for modern aircraft simulation, and FS9 for historical 
 aircraft with highly customized scenery to appear from the golden age of flight.) Undoubtedly, 
 in two or three years (2010) FSX will no longer be something only the high-end computers can run, 
 and everyone will be able to enjoy all the great fun.
  
  What is the difference between FSX basic and FSX Deluxe? The higher-end version includes more aircraft, 
 and includes the software development kit allowing users and third-party developers the ability 
 to highly customize their product. The add-on product, "Acceleration," adds even more aircraft, 
 missions, and supplies support for multiplayer air racing.
  
  Be warned, the base installation on your hard drive is about 13 gigabytes (that's gigabytes with 
 a G) and comes on 2 DVD's. My personal recommendation for enjoyable play system specs: Microsoft 
 Windows XP or Vista operating system; 2.8 gigahertz processing speed (or higher) , SLI duel-video 
 card setup with 256 megabytes or more Video RAM, 2 Gigabytes RAM, joystick with throttle (s) and 
 rudder.
  
  This review was written after approximately 50 hours of actual flying time in the simulation. The 
 computer used for this review matches the suggested specs above. I generally got 25 fps except 
 in high-traffic areas. 
  
  Microsoft released Flight Simulator X Service Pack 1 which addressed a number of issues users had 
 which the initial product including slow frame rates and content updates. For some users, a marginal 
 frame rate increase is observed.
  
  There are numerous free add-on aircraft and scenery available from dedicated flight simulation 
 web sites. Probably the most popular is www. avsim. com.
  
  This is a revision of a post I originally submitted to cnet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcavoybn
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 9, 2007 2:45 pm PT
Review:  I love this game. I had never played a flight sim before but i think this is one of the best. 
 
  
  Pros:
  1. Very detailed and realistic
  2. The voice comm is very real and you feel like someone is really talkin to you
  3. Tutorials 
 wil make you an expert flyer even if you hardly know what a flight som is.
  4. You dont HAVE to have a Joystick, although they are better than mouse and keybouard.
  5. Tons 
 of maps to explore
  
  Cons:
  1. Horible Horrible Framerate
  2. Loading times can be tedious.
  
  This is a good game, and if you are looking for something 
 new, and have a middle to high end computer you'll like this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skipper847
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 7, 2007 7:55 am PT
Review:  This game is good. At first theres a few graphics flaws but after you get the right settings it 
 runs realy well. Even on my PC. I have,
  
  Radion x800pro, P4, 512MB. And still runs smooth on medium low to medium high settings. At first 
 be for the up date it did have alot of things go wrong but after the update and the new expansion 
 pack acceleration it has boost the preformance 10X better. Also download 3dmark05 to get the best 
 graphics and then tweak them until your setisfied. When i first got the game I was so dissapointed 
 but im glad i kept it and now loveing it.
  
  All im using as well is a cheap &pound;20 flight stick with throttle and it just as good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LTZH
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 6, 2007 10:59 am PT
Review:  A few things about me first:
  -I've been using Flight Sims for over 13 years
  -I'm a real world student pilot
  -I've been using FSX for a year
  -My first MS FS was FS 95
 
  
  Ok, Flight Simulator X is the only solid FS released since 2006, excluding Falcon 4.0 allied force. 
 Flight Sims are not that popular these days due to lack of intrist by gamers who would rather go 
 shoot somebody all day. But thank god for Microsoft for continuing their greatest series, Flight 
 Simulator, and FSX is a worthy sequel to all of them.
  
  First Pros and Cons:
  
  Pros: You can fly anywhere in the world, alot of flyable aircraft to start with, Almost almost 
 real life physics such as gyro drifts, correct turbulence, accurate P-factor and all that aircraft 
 physics lingo (almost like flying in real life) , Virtual cockpits are extremely well thought out 
 and are great to use, graphics are the best out of any flight sim yet, Missions such as flying 
 tutorials to difficult IFR 747 aprroaches easy the casual gamer into flying, and are just as fun 
 for a veteran simmer, They also have replicas of real life flying lessons from your first solo 
 flight, to your check ride for your ATP, excellent AI traffic, scenery could be better but you 
 can get addons for that, although the scenery is good enough to please anyone.
  
  Cons: More aircraft such as the 757, 767, 727, DC-10, Airbuses would have been nice, more voice 
 overs wouldve helped the lack of ATC accents, Traffic like at Dallas intl or LAX can get way backed 
 up, but I guess that is sometimes reality, People complain about performence, and they are right 
 but in reality this is a monster program so you really need a descent PC.
  
  
  Simply put, if you like flying at all go buy a stick and pick up the deluxe version of FSX for 
 $40, it is a great simulator, not the most revolutionary in the series, but a worthy sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BOCABOATER
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 1, 2007 5:12 am PT
Review:  My machine is P4 2.8Ghz, 3GB RAM and 512MB X1650 pro and FS X runs flawlessly. The awesome sound 
 and graphics immerses you in the simulation and actually makes you feel like you are flying a commercial 
 airliner, right down to the familiar ding when you flip the fasten seat belt light. When you hit 
 some turblulence you see and almost feel the plane bounce. Flying a learjet at dusk up the Atlantic 
 coast, watching the sun set to your left, the stars slowy appear and turn brighter, the cockpit 
 lights come on as you see the sky growing darker truly absorbs you in the experience.
  
  The chatter from other pilots and the ATC adds a level of reality that I've not experienced in 
 any other simulation. FS X is truly a marvel.
  
  The missions are great. From flying an ultralight in Africa to a Grumman Goose in the Amazon.
 
  
  If you buy it, spend the extra money and get the Deluxe version. It 's worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snowkarver
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 11, 2007 7:51 am PT
Review:  FSX is the latest installment in one of gaming's longest-running franchises. I've had the privilege 
 of playing almost every version since SubLogic's original Flight Simulator 1.0, and every iteration 
 gets more and more realistic.
  
  Having flown real single-engine props, I can safely say that the tagline as real as it gets is 
 almost true, although the single biggest contributor to the enjoyment of this title is a good flight-capable 
 joystick, preferably with some kind of throttle, a view-direction hat switch, and some extra triggers 
 for flaps, landing gear, and so on. Even more so than a powerful rig, FSX is pretty much useless 
 without it.
  
  As for hardware, FSX is obviously demanding, but with the Service Pack 1 downloadable update and 
 judicious tweaking of the detail settings, it's entirely possible to get performance as good as, 
 if not better than the previous version, which has far less realism in the textures and visuals.
 
  
  My only gaming rig at the moment is, surprisingly, a Dell XPS m1330 ultralight notebook, and to 
 see FSX run so smoothly and realistically on this sort of gear is nothing short of amazing. The 
 slower prop craft, in particular, feel highly realistic, even when playing on a puny 13 laptop 
 screen.
  
  If you're into civilian flight sims, this is a must-have title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jedi_Texlar
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 22, 2007 7:45 pm PT
Review:  The controls are quick and very realistic, very much like the real airplanes that I have flown. 
 I had heard that you need a special computer built for this FS, but I have found that the system 
 I have is ready for it. I plan on purchasing this version, not only to fly, but to add to my collection 
 of FS. I will soon have every version of Flight Simulator. I still fly the old ones on some computers 
 that are just as antiquated as the version of FS that I happen to be flying. But again, this is 
 the best and I will be flying this one very soon. If you enjoy FS, you will enjoy this one for 
 sure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CapnQwark
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 19, 2007 6:00 pm PT
Review:  This game is outstanding and is only held back by the frame rate which can easily be overcame with 
 the right performance upgrades.
  
  This is another simulator in the long-running Microsoft Flight simulator series. Being one of the 
 best selling and best credited series in the history of gaming this one, Flight Simulator X, is 
 no exception. It builds upon everything done in the past for the best. First we will talk about 
 the game play.
  
  The game play in this simulator is just as good as any previous Flight Simulator and actually is 
 better. Basically it is what you would expect. You can fly an airplane anywhere in the world taking 
 off from many, many airports (over 24,000 to be exact in this game) . Being a computer simulator 
 you basically have ultimate control over the airplane after/or (if) you manage to learn all of 
 the controls and control combinations, which is a task in its own. Pretty much the game play is 
 flying just as you would in real life. That is the game play.
  
  The graphics in this game can be good or not so good. It depends on the settings you set. When 
 the settings are as high as they can go (I will explain later how you can do this without having 
 a significant frame rate drop) then the graphics will be very nice. And, for the first time ever 
 all of the airplanes have 3-D cockpits to look at. In fact the cockpits are so good looking this 
 time around that you will more than likely find yourself looking in that view more than any of 
 the others. Also each airplane acts different from the other one. By this I mean that each airplane 
 flies, acts in the air, and lands just as it should. This really adds to the realism of the Flight 
 Simulator experience.
  
  The airplane graphics are about the same. When you have the settings set high they can look pretty 
 nice but it depends on the type of airplane that it is. The bigger airliner jets tend to look not 
 as nice for obvious reasons. Reason # 1: They are bigger and require more detail to capture the 
 whole thing. Reason # 2: More of the graphics have to be in the cockpit due to the increase in 
 buttons. Reason # 3: I don't know. The bigger airplanes have less buttons that are working in the 
 cockpit probably because there are more buttons in the cockpit. However, even still they have all 
 the main ones and even include the No Smoking and Seat Belts buttons which is pretty cool but would 
 be cooler if you could see the signs. The smaller airplanes tend to look better just all-around. 
 The outside and inside look nicer because it is smaller and has less buttons to worry about.
  
  The scenery in this game is very nice. You can see the trees which is pretty good. But the 
 real thing is in the big cities and neighborhoods around them. Around the bigger cities the neighborhoods 
 will have streets and plenty of houses that match to the streets and their direction. In the smaller 
 cities there is not much too look out, however. Also a great thing about the scenery is the fact 
 that they have a lot of landmarks in the game such as the Eiffel Tower, White House, Grand Canyon, 
 etc. which adds to the realism and sense of adventure in the game. In other words it will make 
 the game more interesting because you can fly to all these (and more) to see scenery that you would 
 otherwise not be looking at.
  
  Weather in this game is very realistic looking and very enjoyable to have at the highest setting. 
 When it is storming you will feel as though it is storming and you will want to get above the storm. 
 I was flying once and a lightning bolt hit my airplane. Needless to say it was a rough landing 
 but once that I managed to pull off. There is wind, rain, snow, lightning, plenty of clouds, and 
 so on that make the game feel that much more realistic.
  
  The traffic that they talked about so much before this game released is not quite as good as they 
 were saying that it would be but is still far better than any other Flight Simulator to date. When 
 flying you will see cars, you will see airplanes, and depending on the area you will see the occasional 
 animal but don't hold your breath.
  
  The sound in this game is outstanding! Each airplane sounds different than the other. The little 
 jets sound like little jets, the big jets sound like big jets, the helicopters sound like helicopters, 
 the glider sounds like a glider, the propellers sound like propellers, all of the aircrafts sound 
 like they should. Also the wind, thunder, rain, etc. sound just as they should and would in real 
 life.
  
  The difficulty in this game entirely depends on the settings you make and the skill you have at 
 the wheel of an airplane/helicopter. For instance, you could make it to where there is no impact 
 detection, no stressing the aircraft damage, or over speed damage and just roam free on your own 
 without worries. Or (if you are like me and you want the REAL flight experience) then you will 
 set the realistic settings to full and turn off the auto rudder feature in the game.
  
  It's time for some... : SCORES :
  
  Game play: Same as I mentioned before. This game is meant 
 to give you the gameplay of flying and that is exactly what it gives. There is no repetition because 
 every flight is different, there is no sense of boredom because every take-off is different, and 
 the game gives you that adrenalin rush just before the wheels touch the ground for a landing. A+ 
 10
  
  Graphics: The graphics aren't perfect but is better than good enough for you to tell what the object 
 is. The graphics are better high than low but they still get an...
  
  8
  
  Sound: The sound in the game is just as I said earlier. Each of the aircrafts sounds just as it 
 should, the weather sounds according to the way it would in real life, everything just sounds as 
 it should. Even the cars' horns when you fly fifty feet above them sound as they should. It gets 
 an
  
  A+ 10
  
  The replay value is a
  
  10 because the play never replays itself. It is always different. Nothing (except the missions) 
 are scripted for you.
  
  The reviewers tilt is great! I love this game! I play it very often for more than one reason but 
 the main is that I love to fly, I love to fly, I love to fly... oh wait that is three!
  
  10
  
  Now for some GAME PLAY TIPS!!!
  
  If you want the best results from this game you 
 should get a performance update disk to download onto your computer. It increases performance (frame 
 rate and attributes [graphics, sound, scenery] ) by up to 40%!
  
  When flying never forget to put the landing gear down when landing. I did it once already and it 
 wasn't pretty. Same goes for taking it up. I was in a Boeing and forgot to put it up until I was 
 27,000 feet into the air. Then when I put them up at that altitude I went into a stall from the 
 sudden weight adjustment and feel straight down 27,000 feet and crashed. Have fun and enjoy the 
 flight. Set it on auto-pilot and do your homework as you watch the scenery go by, fly over your 
 city and see what it looks like in the game, go see some awsome scenery across the world, just 
 have fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: laverdegamer
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 17, 2007 9:10 am PT
Review:  ITS A VERY GOOD GAME. EXTREMELY ADDICTIVE. ITS ONE OF THOSE GAMES THAT YOU WALK BY YOU COMPUTER 
 AND YOU SEE THE COVER AND IT MAKES YOU JUST WANT TO PLAY. VERY VERY FUN GAME. I ALWAYS LOVE THOSE 
 KINDS OF FLYING GAMES BUT THIS ONE JUST HAS SOMETHING DIFFERENT ABOUT IT THAT JUST MAKES ME LOVE 
 IT MORE. GREAT GRAPHICS AND EVERYTHING ABOUT IT MAKES IT FUN AND ADDICTIVE. IT IS AMAZING JUST 
 HOW FUN IT IS TO PLAY. IT IS INCREDIBLE. YOU HAVE TO FEEL IT IF YOU DONT BELEIVE ME THEN YOU WILL 
 KNOW WHAT I AM TALKING ABOUT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Diva-of-Destiny
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 5, 2007 4:01 am PT
Review:  The good: Amazing detail, breathtaking views, take off from your choice of 24,000 airports world 
 wide and just explore, or partake in interesting missions. Training is so thorough and realistic 
 it feels like you're taking a real flying lesson. An incredible experience if you have a joystick.
 
  
  The bad: They covered so many places in the world there was a little less room for detail in some 
 places. Those with only a keyboard and mouse to play with will have a much less fulfilling experience.
 
  
  Right off the bat I need to warn you - this game is a far, far more fulfilling and thrilling experience 
 with a joystick and throttle. I recommend the Saitek X52 throttle and joystick package. It's expensive, 
 but what it does for your gaming experience is a thrill well worth it. You want to feel like a 
 real pilot? You need these, and you will feel like one. They are worth every penny. But if you 
 can't afford those, the game is still worth playing, though it will feel more like just a game 
 rather than a fulfilling experience. The Xbox360 controller is a preferable substitute rather than 
 the mouse and keyboard.
  
  My current systems rating for games, according to Windows Vista, is 3.6 out of 6, and I am not 
 having any frame rate issues with the game. I have it set on medium graphics settings and my pc 
 is holding up just fine. You don't need a $600 graphics card. The game does run without the disc, 
 so you will need plenty of hard drive space, and with all the detail on the game the more RAM the 
 better. I love the convenience of not having to put the disc in every time I want to play.
  
  I got the deluxe version and I'm so glad I did. The extra features are well worth the money. 
 This game is a good value, because it has longevity. The free roaming flying anywhere in the world, 
 with all there is to be explored, in so many different planes, weather conditions, times of day... 
 I'm going to still be playing this game a year from now. And if that wasn't enough, there's the 
 online multiplayer where you can fly with a friend or try out manning the helm in Air Traffic Control 
 for a new experience. The extra cities, planes, multiplayer in the deluxe package will give you 
 more to do and trust me, the game is so good you won't want to stop playing especially if you have 
 the joystick and throttle.
  
  The customization is amazing. If you do a free-fly, you can fly from any of 24,000 airports around 
 the world, in any weather you choose (including current real time weather in that location the 
 game will search for on the internet for you!!!) , and any time of day. You can make a flight plan 
 to go from point a to point b of your choosing.
  
  The missions are enjoyable too, and teach you a lot about flying and about different types of aircraft. 
 It feels realistic enough to feel like a real flying lesson. It does take some time to get used 
 to how to do everything as there are a lot of different functions you will need to perform, but 
 your effort is well, well, rewarded with amazing, realistic flying simulation.
  
  While you're exploring the world there are many famous landmarks you can visit including the Pyramids 
 in Egypt, Ayers Rock in Australia, and Niagara Falls, USA. The armchair traveller will drool over 
 this game. Unfortunately some areas are less detailed or less graphically perfect, but that seems 
 to be a result of the fact that there is so much content. You can fly in practically any country 
 in the entire world!
  
  There's a Learning Center on the game with tons of info about the different aircraft, air traffic 
 control, and so much more that is fascinating enough to keep someone busy for hours even though 
 they're not flying. Very impressive. I learned a lot and enjoyed every fascinating minute.
  
  One note about my hard rating. On normal (medium) difficulty settings this game is a challenge. 
 But there are easier settings you can start off with if you're learning, and the early missions 
 are tutorial in nature to help you get accustomed to flying. But more importantly this game is 
 worth the effort, because it's a rush when you feel like you're really flying and can really control 
 your aircraft. Some games aren't worth their effort. This one definitely is. And I never, ever 
 got so frusterated that I wanted to stop playing.
  
  Buy this game, deluxe version, and while you're doing that buy a joystick and throttle, and come 
 as close as you possibly can to real flying without climbing in the cockpit of a real aircraft. 
 Live the fantasy - who doesn't want to see what it feels like to fly? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThE_MaD_VipeR
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 29, 2007 9:54 am PT
Review:  As we approach the hot topic of Flight Simulator X, a lot of mixed feelings start to catch shape. 
 As a passionate follower of the Flight Simulator series, I have to say, that this is not what I 
 expected to see in the latest release. Although, I have to say, that starting with the 2000, 2002 
 and 2004 editions, little has changed (between them and this) . Everything seems to be the same.
 
  It is true that a lot of new features have been added along the way, and FSX sure does enjoy quite 
 a few, not to mention the graphical leap of faith it took. But is seems that this particular leap 
 took the game not on a hill of glory, but more into a pit of shame. I dont want to sound too dramatic, 
 but if youre going to add an insane amount of detail to a game that has preexisting versions (that 
 work just fine btw) and drop the FPS threw the floor, you might want to think again. Seriously, 
 I have played the game quite a lot, and being a series fan, I have to say that I did get accustomed 
 with the controls quite easy (not applicable to new comers, you have to work hard guys) . My computer 
 now meets the latest in gaming requirements and can easily play the latest titles and good FPS 
 and big resolutions. But this particular game brings the whole top-notch computer to a whole 
 new level. You need some sort of alien technology to make it work at high detail.
  And this is where the thing really starts to get interesting. Since you cant run the game at high 
 settings and will have to give in to a lot of absolutely stunning visuals, the game quickly turns 
 into FS 2004. So, figuring that the previously mentioned version has been out for 4 years, you 
 come to ask the good people of Microsoft: What the hell have you been doing all this time? They 
 might answer that they were focusing on Halo or on anything else rather than FSX. Or this might 
 be a really bad joke to all the fans of Flight Simulator.
  To conclude:
  The game is great, the visuals are really beautiful, there are a lot of things added that make 
 for a really good flight experience. You really do feel like a true pilot if you can master the 
 planes at realistic settings. Thats all the good stuff that one can say about the game. Too bad 
 you wont get to enjoy this for at least 2 more years, when everyone can buy dual video cards and 
 lots of GB of RAM. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Condog1702
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jul 26, 2007 8:38 pm PT
Review:  This is simply the best flight simulator games in the series. You have a wide range of aircraft 
 to choose from the the small, but easy to fly Cessna 172SP Skyhawk to a Boeing 747-400 jumbo jet 
 and even a glider. No matter what type of plane you like to fly, im pretty sure that this game 
 will have a plane that suits everybody. But to make the game play more realistic i would recommend 
 getting a joystick because it makes the planes so much easier to fly and to taxi on the ground. 
 If you decide to get this game, you will not regret it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Red_Hartsock
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 24, 2007 9:20 am PT
Review:  This game is the tenth installment of Microsoft's highly successful Flight Simulator series, which 
 simulates real life flying, I myself am in the US Air force and stationed in the UK, and I have 
 yet to see a Flight Simulator as real as this is, Everything down to where the guages are located 
 is real, the ATC are modeled correctly, the aircraft are modeled correctly, airports and real world 
 weather + traffic make this game the best Flight Simulator to date! If you are a pilot, or have 
 dreams of being a pilot I highly recommend this game! I love it most people love it, but it is 
 very difficult to get used to, when you first buy the game I wouldn't recommend taking a 747 on 
 a flight from San Francisco Intl to Tokyo Intl, thats about an 8 hour flight, just start small, 
 flying Cessna's and Beachcraft Barons for short distances once you get used to those you'll graduate 
 to Jets and start flying the real deal, along with the Freeware and Payware aircraft you can download 
 its almost endless in the planes you can fly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BreakingSpecter
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 20, 2007 8:40 am PT
Review:  This game is so dam fun. Everyone should play this game 24/7. It is the best flight sim ever. You 
 can go all over the world in this game, you can use a lot of different planes, jets, helis and 
 even gliders. You can do missions, go online and fly with other people, or just play it not online 
 for fun and do tricks and explore the world. But the only bad thing about this game is when u fly 
 the fighter jets u cant shoot bullets or missiles so that sucks they should make it so u can. So 
 u can shoot people online or offline on missions. But i doubt that they will ever do it online 
 but they might do it missions in like a dog fight or something. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FalcoRustico
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jun 15, 2007 11:46 am PT
Review:  The same can be said for FSX. Perhaps if you have the budget for the latest and greatest system, 
 it has the potential to be spectacular - even so - without DirectX 10 it's at best ambitious!
 
  
  Graphics are slightly improved over FS2004, with more features added. The features themselves are 
 mostly a compilation of several add-ons available for FS2004 - thus saving you several hours of 
 installation, money and not mention hunting for the add-ons to begin with. Albeit FSX already has 
 quite the array of add-ons already available - most noteworthy are the higher resolution terrain 
 maps. Yes, FSX did not ship with the highest terrain maps. If it did, very very few machines would 
 be able to run it - out of the few that are capable of running it now (at acceptable levels) . Aircraft 
 graphics are only slighty improved from 2004, and really not worth mentioning. WIth that aside, 
 you may ask - well why is it even worth it to buy.
  
  Perhaps the best features of FSX aren't even the resource hogging graphics, but rather the efforts 
 put into making a more realistic aviation environment. Environments that can at times be bustling 
 with passenger buses rushing from one gate or terminal to the next, baggage carts setting up for 
 an arriving flight on a gate, fuel and catering trucks standing by - not to mention other aircraft 
 traffic - both in the air and on the aprons. Still plenty of room for improvement, yet very impressive 
 effort.
  
  I say effort, as to fully enjoy the features you really really have to tweak the settings (if you 
 can enjoy them at all - system dependent) . The ATC is among the sims best features (I want the 
 phone number of the sexy sounding one) . ATC overall is rather well done, specially the flight following 
 - I was very impressed - specially having a background in aviation. Flight planning is also impressive 
 (however, instead of relief mapping I would much have preffered Jeppeson type VFR mapping - which 
 I may add - would have used LESS system resources, and looked better) . I love the idea of earning 
 rewards and such - gives players an incentive to do more than just fly between their favorite FBO's 
 in their Cessna's endlessly. The rewards, Trophy's and patches are perhaps FSX's best new feature 
 - including the missions to earn them!
  
  I specifically didn't mention the flight training lessons till now, as they deserve a section all 
 their own. I am rather disappointed with this area as it had the most potential. Firstly, I MUST 
 ask - does anyone, anyone at all at Microsoft do game testing ? Even if they asked the instructor 
 featured in FSX to come into the MS studios and at least test his own lessons - I'm sure they would 
 have noticed the abundant flaws! On a side note - may I say to that instructor - please don't quit 
 your day job for a comedy routine (YOUR NOT FUNNY) ! He spends more time trying (and it really is 
 sad in a lame way) to add humour to his lessons - while he flys you right into the side of a mountain 
 in one of the earlier lessons. Also, as for the crab apple who does the check-out flights, to award 
 you your certificates - who shoved the .... ok I'll not go there. Except to say that it is virtually 
 impossible to pass the check-out flights if 1. you do not start in the location where the check-ride 
 says and expects you to be (especially evident in the Intrument Rating Check-ride) . 2. The flight-plan 
 isn't lined up with the map (location location location) . 3. The instructor/inspector seems to 
 be following a different route - in a parallel universe which is slightly mis-aligned from the 
 one your flying in. 4. Unexpected instrument annomolies and sudden alien take-overs of your aircraft 
 at crucial moments leaving you fumbling for control - as you hear Ms Crabbapple say sorry, you 
 failed your check-ride ... . A VERY AMBITIOUS attempt, and all frustration aside I still found 
 the lessons section VERY educational regardless of all its flaws. Just make sure you buy yourself 
 one of those blow-up clowns that you can punch endlessly and they bounce back up for more LOL - 
 in fact MS should package one in the box LOL.
  
  Overall, ambitious is truly the best description for FSX. I would say it's worth buying, just be 
 prepared for lengthy tweaking sessions to get the game playing smoothly - and some frustration 
 (till fixes become available) . One fix might be a (choice) of instructors LOL, specially the sexy 
 sounding ATC controller - get her in the right seat and we have take-off ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scvido
Rating: 6.6
Date: Jun 13, 2007 10:54 pm PT
Review:  Well please listen to me, i am a huuuuge fan of MS Flightsimulator and i have played FS 1.0 back 
 in the 80's up till FS2004 and always loved them but wtf was MS thinking about ?!
  
  **Graphics** - I was expecting this game to look 20 times better than FS2004 and was utterly disappointed, 
 i enabled maximum settings to the highest available and playing 1280x1024 on my 8800GTX and the 
 graphics are worse than FS2004 unless you fly 20.000 feet above the ground things look worse.
 
  FS2004 with some cool mods (water and ground) looks 1000 better than this lame excuse for a simulator, 
 in fact the water looks worse than the MOD for FS2004, the mountains are well done though but its 
 no excuse for crappy graphics.
  
  also the game is a resource hog unlike any other FS game, the menus are slow as hell to access 
 (even with the SP1 patch) and they included Music in the main-menu...... WTF?!
  and to top it all.... the game is 15GB of HD which if you'll excuse me i need for my Pr0n movies 
 better. lol
  
  the airplanes wing view etc is nothing new, seen it (and better) in FS2004 with OPENSKY planes 
 which look even better than FSX ones.
  
  **Sound** - Sound is definetely better than FS2004 but not that big of a difference, they do sound 
 more realistic but not that different but some of the audio of some planes are annoying.
  
  **Gameplay** - It is Flight Simulator, there is no real gameplay, you are a pilot and must fly 
 a plane from A to B, you can choose where you want to fly, when and how, you can fly like a maniac 
 or you can fly proper if you really know how to fly an Airbus or Boeing. Conclusion?
  
  STICK TO FLIGHT SIMULATOR 2004 !!!
  
  what a poor excuse for a game, i can't believe how horrible 
 this is with or without the patch the game is horrible taking forever to load, slow, chuggy, annoying, 
 pfffffs.
  
  just get your Mods for FS2004 from the net and forget about this Piece of S*** cause FS2004 with 
 mods beats this to death. meh. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: plasmaron2003
Rating: 5.4
Date: Jun 2, 2007 3:25 pm PT
Review:  This game would have been great when pong first came out. I HAVE NO IDEA HOW ANYONE CAN GIVE THIS 
 GAME'S GRAPHICS OR SOUND ANYTHING HIGHER THEN A 2 . if you put it against Pong it would be a 10, 
 but against games like COH it is a 0 . I know the main driving force for people buying this game 
 is not graphics but the bar was raised 10 years ago and this game stayed still. The Planes look 
 ok, the sound sucks. There are no crashes or anything anitmated like you would find in any game 
 over the last 15 years. Its great they try to emulate all the airports but for god sake build some 
 animations when you crash. With graphics and sound this bad I doubt the planes we fly in game are 
 anything like the real thing.
  
  Its nice to fly in real time and see places you have been but the graphics are so bad and choppy 
 it takes away from the game. How a game with this bad of graphics could have this slow of frame 
 rate is beyond me. I have a Nvida 7950GTX 512 megs and 2.13 Dual core so my PC is no slouch. It 
 really makes me wonder how Microsoft with all its know how and resouces can make something so bad. 
 They can't build a simple, simple game like this to make it work right with Vista. Makes you wonder 
 what they can do right? Even compaines like www. Flyaceshigh. com can build something with better 
 graphics and able to run at 60 FPS min. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rcostin
Rating: 7.8
Date: May 20, 2007 12:46 pm PT
Review:  I was rather disappointed with this title. I have seen Microsoft Filghtsimulator series grow up 
 from when it first debuted. With FSX I really was expecting new territory with a Direct X 10 graphics 
 version. But this even though the company that stands behind it Microsoft who developed Vista with 
 Direct X 10 cannot even release FSX with it. That makes you wonder why! So with that said to me 
 its more of the same with everything pushed to the max as fars as terrain and moveable AI. Yes 
 it is a beast of a computer hog and you need a top of the line computer to enjoy some of it maxed 
 out DX 9 capabilities. Service pack one was released and the really only noticable thing was the 
 performance improved on my computer by about 20%. So SP1 even though no DX10 fixed a lot of issues 
 both with performance and graphical terrain errors. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nontas4
Rating: 7.3
Date: May 9, 2007 6:30 am PT
Review:  This game is very good the graphics the sound almost everything the bad thing is that it requires 
 a beastly system to run good my pc has a Intel E6300 nvidia 7600gt xfx xtreme and 1gb ddr2 ram 
 and the game runs very badly. The weird thing is that on my old pc which had an intel p4 2.6 ghz 
 768mb ram and an ati x1300 ge cube graphics card it runned a bit better. Anyway flight sim x is 
 a good game but it requires more than it should require and for those who don't have the game or 
 haven't played it yet i f=give you it's minimum requirements hope this will help. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: J_J_Efferies
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 1, 2007 6:53 pm PT
Review:  Microsoft Flight Simulator X is the latest installment in a long line of flight simulators. With 
 stunning graphics and an amazing active and immersive world it is also the best one by far. Enjoy 
 the Google earth views and great visual water features. Microsoft has made the perfect flight simulator 
 for enthusiasts and beginners alike; that is if you have the machine to run it. It features 21 
 new aircraft if you get the deluxe version and 18 if you get the standard, as well as many hi-def 
 cities and airports all around the world.
  
  This game is just like a big giant confabulation of every other flight simulator Microsoft has 
 ever made, and it is the best. It has a great list of pre-made aircraft including the Airbus A321, 
 multiple Cessnas, the CRJ700 and many more, and has lots of high detail cities, and high detail 
 airports too, like New York, Los Angles, Tokyo, and many more. Compared to the number of those 
 in Microsoft Flight Simulator 2004 they are much higher.
  
  The aircraft in this game are awesome to look at as well to fly, if you have the machine to run 
 it. Smooth and realistic handling, as well as crisp clear sound, they really came through in showing 
 off these aircraft. Microsoft perfected the tiniest details such as wing flex, aircraft light and 
 shadows, all around views, and realistic looking gear and engines. They also made many new features 
 in the failures option in the failures menu if you have ever wondered what it would be like to 
 have dual engine fires in you aircraft, or just plain crappy conditions.
  
  Weather in this game is great too, it still offers the same old weather themes, and real world 
 weather provided by Jeppesen as well. Flying through high winds and rain, or landing in a heavy 
 winter storm really feel like it would in a real aircraft and you just get a great experience. 
 Sunny weather is great too, dont get me wrong, the sun graphics provide you with the chance to 
 see the aircraft glint and shadows I described earlier and it gives you a much better look at the 
 dynamic living world this game gives you to explore. With live animals in the outback, to trees 
 blowing in the wind, to cars driving on the interstate near your town its all there. Your town 
 is likely to be in this game too, unless you live in some hick town like me and it might not be, 
 but mine is so yeah. Youll probably see your town is my point.
  
  Multiplayer features in this game currently only feature free flight and fake missions people put 
 together and stuff. However Microsoft is coming out with an expansion pack with new multiplayer 
 racing, but this is beside the point. My whole point is that multiplayer will give you some fun 
 online flying action with your buddies, or people who you dont know at all youre just in the 
 air with. You can also play as Air Traffic Control with the new multiplayer setup and boss around 
 those people you dont know. The multiplayer is powered by Gamespy so youll need to get a free 
 account to play but its not that big of a deal. The online community for this game has already 
 taken off and there are several virtual airlines you can fly with and many many many downloadable 
 aircraft for you to get if the 21 provided aircraft just arent enough to scratch your itch for 
 a great flying experience. If you really want to get the full experience form this game you will 
 have to have a pretty monster machine to run it, I run it on an Optliplex 745 with a great top 
 of the line graphics card, and it runs nearly maximum graphics on everything. If you have a laptop 
 it just wont cut it for this game, or at least it didnt for me. However it is playable on most 
 every desktop with system requirements. This game also has less than good frame rates even if you 
 have a huge monster machine to run it. As I said earlier dont get me wrong with this, its still 
 playable on most any desktop, and its sure to be a blast no matter what.
  
  Thats pretty much all I have to say about Microsofts new Flight Simulator X, with its awesome 
 new aircraft, high detail cities, and immersive amazing alive world. It is great for the beginner, 
 flight simulator fanatic, or experienced pilot. You will be spending good money for a great time 
 if you get this game, give it a try, and if you dont like it take it to EBgames and trade it in 
 for Mortal Kombat or something. Just kidding, you wont want to. Thanks for reading my review of 
 Microsoft Flight Simulator X. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmb34
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 4, 2007 8:33 pm PT
Review:  I am avid flight simmer so i have many years of experience with the various releases of flight 
 simulator and i would say this is the best release yet. If you interested in flying (realistic) 
 civilian/commercial airlines then this game is for you. It helps to know a little about how aircraft 
 behave in real world settings though not necessary. The game may frustrate novice flyers but the 
 game will scale down some to make things easier. The game itself needs a monster rig to get playable 
 framerates and to date there is not a rig available that can completely max the game out and have 
 a constant 30fps. I will say with my experience this game has YEARS of enjoyment, the modding community 
 will go wild on fsx so this game will not die easily. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Geon106
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 3, 2007 12:12 pm PT
Review:  The Flight Simulator franchise is a long one, one with many fans. The 10th installment is yet again 
 pushing boundarys of gameplay just as previous versions have. This game is fantastic, and it does 
 live up to its reputation as being hard to get to play at a suitable frame rate even with a modern 
 graphics card. The computer i use to play the game:
  
  Socket 939 Motherboard
  AMD Athlon 64 3.7Ghz
  nVidia Geforce 7600 GS 256MB
  2GB 400Mhz DDR RAM
  5.1 Dedicated Soundcard
 
  Windows XP Pro Sp/2, DX9.0c
  
  I can honestly say the game performs well with that spec with the graphics on Medium High, although 
 the textures are blocky and frame rates do indeed plummet occasionally. But i'd say the game is 
 playable. The Pro's
  The game is very immersive, with many aircraft to fly all round the world. Superb graphics even 
 on DX9
  You can act as Air Traffic Control in Multiplayer (with deluxe)
  Missions
  Dynamic world
  
  The Con's
  A few graphical glitches
  Low frame rates Could have had better 
 ground textures
  Could have modelled bridges better, esp famous bridges which aren't in the game
  
  If your 
 a flight sim fan, this game is for you. I recommend a Geforce 6600 GT or higher graphics card however (7 
 or 8 Series preferbly) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Quickhand
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 3, 2007 10:37 am PT
Review:  If you like flight sims this is a very nice game. But if you dont have a nice joystick i wouldent 
 realy bother with this one. Nice graphics, pretty indepth.
  Played it, Liked it, Waiting for price to drop tho . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . .. 
 .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . .. . . . . .. . . .. 
 . . . . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blubadox
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 21, 2007 8:33 am PT
Review:  This is the best Flight Sim game i've ever played, its just fantastic experience. Not many people 
 get to fly an Airbus A321 in real life but FSX does that, all you need is a good PC. Gameplay is 
 almost 90% realistic, sound is good and ATC really rocks. The multiplayer part of this game is 
 a really innovative concept because you get to play ATC, race with other players over the internet- 
 its pure fun. I'm waiting for the DX10 update and Expansion of this game which will make the game 
 graphics look more realistic and there will be many performance optimizations. Make sure you get 
 a joystick - it's hard to fly with mouse and keyboard. Buy this game you will never regret it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The-Jaxter
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 17, 2007 7:24 pm PT
Review:  I have liked this game ever since I have bought it. It has excellent graphics. The game is so clear. 
 This game has every airport. You can land anywhere. This game also has everything you need to know 
 about getting a pilots license. If you play this game a couple months you can go into a flight 
 school and get your license no problem. I play this game 3 to 4 times a week. I have landed at 
 over 100 different airports. I also like the multiplayer option. It does take kind of a long time 
 to load. But once you get into the game it is awesome. You can buy a headset and cummunicate with 
 all the other pilots in the air. The est upgrade I think they have had since the 2004 edition would 
 have to be the missions. You can finnaly track how long you have been flying in you records. I 
 like the fact I can look at my log book and see my hours of flight all my landings and where I 
 landed them. I think this has to be the best flight simulator out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: divine_donkey
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 11, 2007 3:41 am PT
Review:  Flight Simulator has come a long way since it first debut. So far, it seperates itself from others 
 in the same genre with its great graphics and sound. Now Flight Simulator X still did not disappoints 
 fans. Whether you are a newbie trying a hand at flying planes, or you are an avid flight sim fan, 
 this version of Flight Simulator will not let you down. The flying experience is enhanced since 
 its previous title. Although it might be rather difficult for starters but practising will help 
 to improve your flight skills. I will give this game a full mark in all ratings. So hope you will 
 enjoy it as much as i do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kavehpd
Rating: 1.9
Date: Mar 9, 2007 9:44 am PT
Review:  I've been a fanatic Flight Simmer since FS4 (when it was only one 1.44 floppy disk) and I have 
 every singe version since then. FS95, 98, FS2K, FS8, FS9 and now FSX. I have also been involved 
 in 3rd party add-on design for Flight simulator since FS2000 and I guess it's fair to say I'm no 
 rookie. I'm running on the lastest and most powefull Dell Desktop worth over &pound;3 Grands. Vista 
 64bit. 256Mb GFX card. 4 Gigs of DDR. Dual core CPU 2.66. etc.
  
  The best frame rate I get with this junk is ~19fps, using only Aircraft visual settings to the 
 max and everything else to the minimum. No autogen. No Traffic. No 3D cloud...
  
  A slight change in autogen or traffic and what i get is a frame or two every second. Maximum 4~5 
 fps. Awful loading times. Perfectly designed to give you a BIG headache for the rest of the day. 
 Unless you are running a VERY powerful SINGLE CORE processor, do not go anywhere near this junk. 
 Keep your &pound;50 and spend it on something useful. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dieselspeed
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 5, 2007 8:03 pm PT
Review:  Well, first things first, you'll need a lot of ram, a powerful CPU, and a nice video card to even 
 think of more than 20-30 FPS. Aside from that, it can be very fun and realistic. I myself have 
 a mid-level gaming PC, and I have compromised my settings enough to actually be able to use the 
 game. If you have a rather nice PC, go for it. I love it, despite it's little quirks. Always get 
 deluxe edition, don't bother with standard. FSX looks good on any PC with decent frame rates, and 
 it looks great on very powerful PC's. in the end this is my favorite game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RLJSlick
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 19, 2007 9:34 am PT
Review:  This is one of the longest lasting series that remain in the PC World that I still play. I remember 
 playing SubLogic Flight Simulator back on the Commodore in 1987 and the Amiga in 1990. I can tell 
 you; this game has really grownup since those times. Today the game is amazingly beautiful with 
 huge vistas of sky to fly, you can now really tell where you are, and you are never alone in the 
 skies any longer.
  Microsoft has made the latest version even more so, and now its Windows Vista compatibly.
  Personally 
 I dont really see that much difference in this version then the last one, if you spend extra money 
 you will get a few extra features, and a few more planes, but again, both youll be able to probably 
 get for from for the millions of downloadable site. Dont get me wrong, this is an awesome flight 
 simulator, and will please most of the hard core fans out there, I just dont see that much more 
 that I needed to shell out $60 for. Thats, to me, has been the problem with this series for a 
 while now, there hasnt been that much more added to the series. The graphics are better, and you 
 do have a lot going on the world around you, but when you are at 20,000 feet, Im not sure all 
 that other stuff really matters. One thing for sure, if you dont have one of the newer computers, 
 you need not apply, because this game is a system hog. Almost too much of one, even on my pretty 
 high end machine, it ran pretty bad, to a point that I had to turn down a bunch of stuff, making 
 the game no better looking then the last version. I really think the problem is that, the game 
 has pretty much run its course, and maybe need new blood to bring something new to the game. Dont 
 get me wrong, this is still a amazing game, and Im enjoying it, but I just dont think its giving 
 enough back to merit spending that kind of money each time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aqgolda
Rating: 7.3
Date: Feb 19, 2007 6:09 am PT
Review:  This is the best sim out there.
  
  But it depends on what your PC can handle.
  
  Simply if you have a poor machine, you can only enjoy it on the lowest quality (which is really 
 pointless)
  
  If you have a moderate computer like me, you can enjoy it on medium graphics, but since I don't 
 mind slightly slow fps, I have it on the highest quality settings.
  
  And of course if you have the latest (I mean the very latest computer) then you can easily play 
 it on full settings.
  
  For moderate fps and the highest quality settings I use:
  
  Pentium 4 Dual core 3.4Ghz processor
  2 GB Ram
  200 GB space
  Nvidia 7600 Graphics card 
::::::

::::::
UserName: foever86
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 18, 2007 8:40 pm PT
Review:  You've seen the screen shot. You've seen the trailer. With all that buzz, Microsoft has finally 
 released Flight Simulator X. Although this is not a bad game, (in fact, this is a great one) it 
 is still hard to recommend anybody unless you are a die hard Flight Simulator fan.
  
  In general, FSX is similar to its previous release FS2004 (a. k. a FS9) with a few addition. They 
 have added new camera angle on the airplane (wing view and landing gear view, for instance) , and 
 many detailed airports in many countries. I can even see Air Canada sign on a cargo building from 
 Toronto Pearson Airport.
  
  AI's ATC (Air Traffic Control) has also improved, as their instructions are usually reasonable 
 and correct most of the time. Although they might miss to tell you to stop for a small truck that 
 blindly drives right in front of your 747 while you are taxing, you can say they are pretty much 
 reasonable during the flight.
  
  Why would I reconsider recommending this great and improved Flight Simulator X, then? It all comes 
 down to hardware problem.
  
  With hardware that meets recommended specification, you still can't even go close to half of any 
 settings. As a result, if you want to run this game smooth enough to play it without any problem, 
 you have to turn down the graphic so low, it basically looks like FS2004. Even with the addition 
 of Windows Vista and GeForce 8800 video card that would cost round $1000, you still can't run it 
 well enough to see all these stunning visual effects.
  
  Well, if that's the case and if you have FS2004 already (and if you're reading this, you probably 
 would) , I don't see any reason why you should buy FSX as FSX is nothing if you exclude that visual 
 effect.
  
  Unless you are a hardcore FS fan that must try out this game, I recommend you not to buy this game 
 just yet, because you may feel cheated for the money you paid for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Donkieman
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 8, 2007 10:02 pm PT
Review:  I must personally congratulate Microsoft on setting a new benchmark in realism gaming.
  
  The game's contents is just huge, closer to reality then this is proberbly a few years away from 
 now. However, the requirements to play this game is not what you would find in the average PC in 
 the average home.
  
  This master piece of a game requires a master piece of a PC to run it perfectly. I have a fairly 
 basic system, AMD 64 Bit x 2 duel Processor 3800+, 1 gig DDR 2 RAM, 40 gig HDD with a ATI Radeon 
 9600 PRO 128 MB.
  
  Yet my system manages to run it on med low to medium settings. Just giving the basic opportunity 
 to enjoy it.
  
  What do make me sad about the game is where the game only use one of the 2 core processors, I would 
 have loved to see the game using the other 2.
  
  Other then that, I honestly think the game is the PC upgrade worth it, and I can assure anyone, 
 if you have a PC that can run this game in a decent manner then you have a PC that would not need 
 upgrade for a while.
  
  Thanx Microsoft. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rb378wby
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 7, 2007 11:10 pm PT
Review:  Method 1: Microsoft Windows XP
  --------------------------------------------
  1. Click the Download the Software Licensing System Reset Tool package now link to start the download. 
 Or, click the following link: http://download. microsoft. com/download/1/c/d/1cd508f9-7520-4659-a122-a26e8804e884/MSKB928080. exe 
 2. When you receive the File Download dialog box, click Save. Save the file to the desktop. 3. 
 When the download is complete, double-click the MSKB928080 file on the desktop. In the Security 
 Warning dialog box, click Run, and then click Yes to accept the license agreement. 4. Click Unzip. 
 When you receive the 2 Files unzipped successfully message, click OK, and then click Close. 5. 
 Click Start, click Run, type cmd in the Open box, and then click OK. 6. Type cd\ at the command 
 prompt, and then press ENTER. 7. Type cd MicrosoftKB928080 at the command prompt, and then press 
 ENTER. 8. Type resetsldl all at the command prompt, and then press ENTER. Make sure that there 
 is a space between resetsldl and all. 9. After you receive the Re-creating clean trusted store. 
 Success message, close the Command Prompt window. 10. Restart the computer, and then try to install 
 Flight Simulator. Method 2: Windows Vista
  ----------------------------------
  1. Click the Download the Software Licensing System Reset Tool package now link to start the download. 
 2. When you receive the File Download dialog box, click Save. 3. In the Save As dialog box, click 
 Save. 4. When the download is complete, click Close. 5. In Windows Explorer, locate the following 
 folder:
  C:\Users\username\Downloads
  Note The placeholder username is the user name that you use to log on to the computer. 6. Double-click 
 the MSKB928080. exe file. 7. When you are prompted to accept the license agreement, click Yes. 8. 
 Extract the files to the following folder:
  C:\MicrosoftKB928080
  Note If you receive the Open File - Security Warning dialog box, click Run. 9. Run the Software 
 Licensing System Reset Tool. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TugaX
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 30, 2007 4:25 am PT
Review:  I've played the flight simulator X, the demo version and the full game on my computer, well before 
 i bought the FS i went to a hardware store to make some improvements to my computer. Now i am working 
 on a P43.0 Extreme with 1GB RAM Dual DDR 400Mhz and with a Radeon X1600Pro 512MB, this system is 
 able to play Doom 3 at Very High like he was runing Counter Strike 1.6. Well my problem is. Why 
 a game not any better than FS2004 don't run well on this system. I know the graphics and all that 
 stuff, i don't see nothing ultrageous. The game is the FS2004 With Google Earth terrain data and 
 with some new aircrafts that can cast shadows on themselves, the terrain is still flat and boring. 
 When i saw 15GB on the hard drive i thought damn this might have some satelite footages on some 
 areas, I have to play this . Well 've spent almost 500 (almost $600) to play this game for nothing... no 
 satellite footages, no great views, no great aircrafts. In my opinion it is more of the same. But 
 since i am addicted to FS2004 and i like the FS Series i'll give it a good score. The gameplay 
 is the same, very good, the sound is realistic and the graphics are the same a bit better. Never 
 tried it in one DX10 system, some say that it has some realy good improvements, but i have a car 
 to pay and i don't want to get poor for one game!! lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KSlater85
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 28, 2007 9:14 am PT
Review:  Okay maybe I'm being a bit harsh. But I would expect Microsoft to make sure there was an x64 patch 
 so that the game could use x64. You know. If this game wants Ram let it access more then 3.5 GB 
 of it. I mean. The graphics are awesome. Don't get me wrong. With my 7900 GT I could turn it all 
 up and it looked awesome. But it looks just like 2004 to me. Sure the clouds are a little better 
 and the water is a little better but the ground... Needs more geometry. It looks quite flat still. 
 Basically, If you like Flight Sim this is a huge improvement. I was just hoping for more. And who 
 knows when DX 10 is finally avalible I might get that little bit more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: patsbpatsb
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 23, 2007 5:05 pm PT
Review:  Like many FS fans, I've been hooked since FS 3.0... and every release since. This one, FSX, though, 
 takes the cake - simply incredible. Stunning scenery, cockpits, aircraft, realism. Seemingly simple 
 things like 'water' effects are beyond belief.
  True, it does take some pretty decent hardware to see all this 'incredibleness' at anything approaching 
 decent frame rates. If you want all the eye-candy turned on (and I would argue strongly that you 
 do!) , it takes an Athlon X2 and a GeForce 7950 (as examples) to do it. That's right - minimum is 
 X2 and a 7950. Anything less, you will be forced to turn all the 'sliders' down - still fun and 
 neat, but this program deserves high end hardware, on which, this simulation is simply beyond belief 
 even to this jaded eye.
  So, take out a second on the house, call up Falcon Northwest or your favorite supplier, and enjoy! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JM214
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 11, 2007 4:46 am PT
Review:  This was my first venture into the world of flight simulators and boy did it impress! This game 
 is brilliant, the realism is immense, graphics stunnig and gameplay very addictive. I have no problems 
 running the game on my machine, Dual Core 2.4Ghz processor, 2GB ram, Nvidia Graphics card and 700 
 Gb HD.
  
  You can take tutorial flights and then move onto missions or you can take an actual pilot exam 
 and receive your very own certificate - very in-depth course, brilliant for any flying enthusiast.
 
  
  This game is for anyone who loves flight simulators, check out www. justflight. com for add-ons
 
  
  Up, up and away! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ozanbacak
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 8, 2007 7:57 am PT
Review:  I like the game. I don't know it's only me, but it takes a long time to load all the terrain data 
 between flights etc. Other than that the game seems really good and addictive. I will play it more 
 in the upcoming week and write more reviews. So far I have seen that the controls are very easy 
 and my Logitech Wingman 3D works great with the game. I just need to get more familiar with all 
 the aspects of the game. All in all it's a great game and it looks like I will be spending much 
 more time on it than I expected to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blakepowell
Rating: 7.3
Date: Dec 31, 2006 7:46 pm PT
Review:  ok i got this game for christmas and i also have flight simulator 2004. I have a computer that 
 would be classified as entry level, and i get an average of about 4-5 fps in non detailed areas 
 such as in small towns, yea thats pretty bad. The only detailed cities i have been to are seatlle 
 and atlanta. In atalanta i got about 1-2fps average and some textures wouldnt load. Another note 
 is that terrain and autogen (houses, trees, etc) took about 2 minutes to load (while paused) . The 
 whole time settings were on low and even then i couldnt get any higher than about 10fps. Loading 
 times are also a problem, it took nearly 4minutes to load the area of atlanta and still some textures 
 didnt load. Slow framerates also make it harder to manuever planes, especially fast planes such 
 as jets because you have to guess where the plane is going to be between frames and if you get 
 it wrong then you could end up in a bush that wouldnt load.
  I also decided to max out the settings on this game and go to seattle and see what this game really 
 has to offer, and after 10minutes of loading i was impressed, water looks realistic and reflects, 
 boats and cars look good from above, and terrain looks photorealistic (still got about 1fps) and 
 i cheked task manager to see how much ram it used and it was at 1.8gb, i only had 768 mb of ram 
 so i knew my system was on virtual memory which could also be causing low frame rates. With flight 
 simulator 2004 i have all settings maxed out and i could go to any city or place and get a decent 
 20-25fps. I realized that Fsx at min looks worse than slight simulator maxed so i decided to stay 
 with flight simulator 2004 until i could get some new hardware. So for those with entry level PC's 
 you are probably better off with flight simulator 2004, or you could go out and spend $2000+ on 
 hardware upgrades. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: atg1993
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 28, 2006 10:20 am PT
Review:  Flight sim x is a good game and it is the best so far. The graphics are also amazing and there 
 is a lot more to do than in the other ones. The bad thing is that it takes ages to load and some 
 of the missions arent worth waiting for it to load. I was also a bit disapointed on the planes 
 there arent many new ones and there arent very many to choose from: (It is also very expensive compared 
 to other pc games especially if you get the deluxe edition. The game is deffinatley a good buy and 
 it is also fun to play it with a joystick.
  
  adam gavin 
::::::

::::::
UserName: colinfirst002
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 19, 2006 1:58 am PT
Review:  This game is extraordinary! The graphic in Flight Simulator X is awesome and the new effects are 
 so real and cool. The graphics in the game is one of the best out of all the games I played so 
 far, only if you have a computer well enough and if you have pulled all the bars to maximum in 
 the display settings. It is also the most realistic simulation game I have ever played. The reflection 
 effect on the water is the coolest, the water reflects anything! That includes your own plane, 
 mountains and the sun. Wait until you set your altitude (height) above the atmosphere and youll 
 say wow out loud when you see the giant marble called Earth. Sadly, you cannot reach the moon 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jwlcarlos
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 5, 2006 6:22 am PT
Review:  What more can I say? This game is simply amazing! At the current specs of my pc (3000GHz Athlon 
 64, 1GHz RAM and 7300GS-256MB) , FSX runs fairly well with the planes and environment maxed-out. 
 My only advise is that, if you have mid-range-type pc, all you have to do is to either upgrade 
 your present video card or add at least some more RAM so your system could boost-up more power 
 to produce more frame rates. To date, my only problem with this game is it's loading times which 
 takes about a minute. But all in all, this game is a surefire winner and truly immersive! I wish 
 I could ride on the planes, haha...! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bumbayay
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 4, 2006 2:05 pm PT
Review:  This game is much better than 2004, not only because of the detail, but also because of the variety 
 of things to do in the game. If you're not a fan of simulation games, than you may not have any 
 interest for this game. But for the people who do have an interest for simulations, than this game 
 should satisfy you. The graphics are much better for this game, and you don't need an expensive 
 video card to notice the detail, take it from me, I have an NVIDIA GForce 4 MX with only 128MB 
 and I am still able to see the great details in this game, but it does slow down here and there, 
 so I had to lower my graphics. The sounds have also improved, so the planes sound much more realistic. 
 The crashes have not improved from 2004, and I think that it'll be a lot more realistic if they 
 even added in like a ball of fire coming out of the plane. If you want to get the best out of this 
 game, you might want to wait a while for a computer that will allow you to run this game without 
 any frame rate issues. But other than that, if you really enjoy simulation games, than Flight Simulator 
 X is worth a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aguirrem2
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 23, 2006 1:07 pm PT
Review:  Like ALL Flight Sim games, they are quite good if you are a pilot, love aviation, or are a curious 
 kid (or not so kid) wondering... Gee, I wonder how cool it would be to fly a plane... Back to the 
 game now. The Graphics have been GREATLY improved, so have the terrains and the aircraft themselves. 
 It's a good sim (notice my not saying game ) Buy it only if you have a fast computer. IF not, you 
 WILL find yourself struggling with framerate. The game does quite a good job in placing you in 
 the pilot's seat, more than any other Flight Simulator game out there. The missions are quite improved, 
 but are still lacking in my opinion. If you like Flight Sims and have the PC hardware, get this 
 game, if you kind of like Flight sims consider it, BUT DONT get it unless you have a Joystick or 
 Flight Yoke
  
  Sorry for the short review, I'm in a hurry and will update later.
  
  I recomend having the following specs to run this game with acceptable graphics. Recomended Specs:
 
  Any Dual Core Processor (AMD or Intel)
  256mb Graphics Card
  2Gb of RAM
  7,200 rpm harddrive
  
  My PC:
  Dell XPS 710 red
  Intel Core 2 Extreme QX6700: 8MB L2 Cache,2.66GHz,1066 
 FSB
  Win XP Media Center w/Dual TV tuner &amp; Remote
  8GB DDR2 RAM
  1Tb Raid HDDs @ 10,000 rpm
  Sony Blu-Ray Optical Drive
  Dell 30 HDTV monitor
  Dual 1GB NVIDIA 
 GeForce 7950 GX2 Dual-GPU Graphics Cards, Quad SLI
  Sound Blaster X-Fi XtremeMusic Sound Card 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bugsy007
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 26, 2006 10:41 pm PT
Review:  Pro: Realistic Flights, Fine array of Commercial Planes, Huge array of Airports, Challenging Missions, 
 Clear and Detailed Tutorials, Perfect Sound Environment, Ability for Weather/ Time change, Rewards 
 for Achievements, Plenty of surprises.
  
  Cons: No Military Aiplanes/ Missions, Long Loading Time (May not even load) , Slightly Laggy, Need 
 Speakers/ Joystick for more Realism, May be a bit boring after awhile, Multiplayer (What's the 
 point?) , Crashes are not that realistic, No Create your own plane sort of thing.
  
  Overall: A Pretty Adictive/ Relaxing game. Perfect for fans of the series. Focus is just on Commercial 
 Flights, Hope to see updates featuing more planes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nalanji
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 24, 2006 5:24 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the best games I think to take to the PC in simulators, the overall presentation, 
 and with all of the different things from planes, to the scenery, and all the moving objects around 
 the game
  
  Gameplay - 9/10
  
  The gameplay is awsome! It has the best mechanics, and overall flight obtions for the aircraft 
 and helicopters. The awsome array of places and aircraft to fly are beautiful and fun to play in!
 
  
  Scenery - 6/10
  
  The scenery in this game is amazing, don't get me wrong, but to have the scenery, you need a NASA 
 Super Computer and the blood of a virgin to run. It is absolutely rediculous to see how much they 
 say you should have. It is way too much for the average student to have, and for my hobby, it is 
 almost too much of a price to pay.
  
  Overall - 7.5/10
  
  It is an amazing game overall, but the graphics card needed, hard drive , and memory required is 
 just too overwhelming, and i dont really think it is appropriate to need so much...
  
  :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ggoldsmith
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 18, 2006 4:32 pm PT
Review:  I was a proud owner of a last years solid gaming rig, a 4000 AMD 64 processor mated with a EVG 
 7800 GT video card. Well I'm not proud anymore. Using mid to high graphics settings I'm getting 
 10 FPS over Los Angeles and 8 FPS over Manhattan. My good experience with the game is cruising 
 around looking at the sights because 10 FPS is not problem for just sightseeing. But if your're 
 gonna try something complex like landing and critical looking around, your're gonna crash. The 
 disturbing thing is that FS X looks pretty dull, with empty blocks in cities when using lower settings, 
 and it doesn't make the frame rate go up all that much in the trade off. Therefore, if your're 
 a graphics nut than go buy it. Or you could budget for a $300-$400 DX10 card running under Vista 
 in six months or so. Or buy one of those Nvidia 8800 series card that just came out. Pick your 
 poison. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Indigo_Blues
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 18, 2006 4:20 pm PT
Review:  I would have to say that this game comes with some great additions, but leaves a lot of mainstream 
 system users in the dark.
  
  The gameplay is great as usual, a descent selection of aircraft that come with the release, and 
 countless amounts of airports/runways/strips to take off and land from. This is a given from the 
 MS flight series, but they still manage to find some more. The best addition is the missions of 
 course! I like this new addition to give many casual flight simmers a chance on some challenges 
 ranging from easy to expert, flying a Piper on a short flight, to flight testing a restored 747. 
 Many little things, like having a co-pilot or some other voice interactions along with the missions, 
 keep you from giving up on some longer ones.
  
  The graphics are great, just great. They took a giant leap from FS9 in terms of the land detail. 
 No more jagged shorelines, reflective water, ground detail and textures, and of course the planes 
 have been stepped up beautifully. Vehicles, boats, and airport utility vehicles have been added 
 also, which just adds to the realism of coming in for a landing, and passing over a highway full 
 of cars, then to taxi to your ramp and watch the airport vehicles go to work. I can't wait to see 
 it in DX10, would sure be a sight to see.
  
  Sounds are great as usual. I don't see much of a change from FS9, though the aircraft now seem 
 to have their independent engine sounds, where as in FS9, alot of the airliners had the same engine 
 sounds all around. Now comes some of the hardships of the game.. which seem to doom a lot of us 
 players. From what I have research and experienced first hand, then game has no support for SLi 
 systems, which extremely bombs the frame rates of the game. Even with my system specs, I have no 
 chance of flying through certain dense areas of the game, cities. Even with the auto-gen turned 
 down to sparse, I can barely get out of the teens in frame rates. But flying many of the missions 
 seems to be no problem, smooth rates on missions that are out in nature.
  
  The game also seems to not take advantage of dual core CPU's either. As I watch my system monitor, 
 one CPU takes the full load, and the second never even thinks about stepping up to lend a hand, 
 which is a big letdown.
  
  I have to say this game is great, even with some of the speed bumps that comes with a game that 
 is more meant for the systems of next year, running Vista and using DX10 technology. The game is 
 going to be a lot better on there. I still find myself playing even with all this, does not seem 
 to bother me much, but it just leaves something there to be desired; Microsoft could have put a 
 little more effort into the game to work smoother on the current windows platform, and DX9 cards. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: basersx
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 12, 2006 6:20 pm PT
Review:  I want to start this review off talking about the graphics because that seems to be the first thing 
 you hear about, that you need a very high end system to play it. It is very true that you do need 
 to have a high end PC and GPU (a 7900 or better) to run it all maxed at 1280x1024 or larger. But 
 they have gone to great lengths to give you a ton of options and detail settings in many different 
 ways so that the game runs nice and smooth on almost any system. And this game is still very enjoyable 
 and still looks good even in low detail. Here are the graphic detail levels of this game - Minimal
 
  Very Low
  Low
  Medium-Low
  Medium-High
  High
  and Ultra-High And you can choose any of those presets in 5 different categories. Plus you can 
 customize even further and choose different draw distances, amount of runway traffic, air traffic, 
 on and on and on. The point is you can tweak the settings on this game so many different ways that 
 you can make it run well on almost any system. I found that on my system (3800+, 6800GT, 1 GIG 
 RAM) I can play it at 1280x1024 with everything on high except scenery which I leave on Medium-Low. 
 It looks great and runs very smooth. It only gets choppy when you turn up the scenery detail.
 
  
  Now on to the game itself, it has MANY different missions. They do a good job of starting you off 
 with the basics and working up to more difficult flights. And you win different levels of wings 
 with the completion of each mission. Like Iron Wings, Gold Wings and so on. Plus you can setup 
 your own free flights from and to just about any airports in the world. Even the small ones!! And 
 you can chose to have it go to the internet and use real-time, real-world weather patterns for 
 your free flights!! So if you setup a free flight from Logan to Heathrow and its raining in Boston 
 right now your takeoff will be in rain too. Its just amazing!! Also of course it gives you a great 
 selection of planes and helicopters.
  
  Finally about controllers, Im playing it with a Saitek rumble pad gamepad style controller. 
 It works well with one major exception, throttle control. Its setup so the throttle control is 
 the right thumb stick. So when you increase the throttle you have to hold the right thumb stick 
 up the whole time. As soon as you let go the stick goes to the middle and so does the throttle. 
 This is so annoying. Plus they have the rear rudder set to the left-right movements of the right 
 thumb too. So there is no way of moving your rudder without making your throttle go back to 50%. 
 Other then that a gamepad does work pretty well with it. Of course its a lot better with a yoke 
 but the controller is not that bad. Right now I just use the keyboard to set the throttle and I 
 just have to reset it each time in use the rudder. Its a pain but it works.
  
  In closing I have to say I LOVE this game!! Its the best flight sim I have ever played and is 
 a must play for anyone with even a passing interest in flying. With its numerous missions, free 
 flight, and online play (that I have not even tried yet!) it will give you hours and hours of flying 
 enjoyment. And dont be scared off by the graphic requirements for max settings. This game is still 
 very good and worth playing on lesser settings!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JohnKimble22
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 11, 2006 1:23 pm PT
Review:  Microsoft has created a heck of a flight simulator with their newest piece, Microsoft Flight Simulator 
 X, an thoroughly impressive sim. The game is huge, with over 15,000 cites to chose to fly out 
 of and something like over 30,000 airports. Microsoft has also upped the ante when it comes to 
 the variety of planes that you get to fly; theyve included about 20 (in the professional edition) . 
 However, the games blessing and curse is its graphics system. The graphics here are just insane, 
 absolutely insane. If you turn everything up to max, this just may well be the best looking sim 
 ever. However, I am yet to find a pc that can handle everything turned up to max. IF your thinking 
 of buying it, maybe you should put it off for a year or so and get it when you buy a new pc. However, 
 if you have your heart set on buying it, Microsoft has a huge variety of options with the graphics, 
 allowing you to custom tailor everything to your liking. Also, a word of advice; if your going 
 to buy it, just pay up the 15 dollars more and get the professional version; its got like 4 more 
 planes and a lot of extra features, well worth that 15 dollars. All in all, a fantastic game, with 
 stellar graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Floridaguy74656
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 7, 2006 4:24 am PT
Review:  The best of the flight sims. Just went to this from Flight Sim 2004 and I must say there is a massive 
 difference. This is way way better. It runs beautifully with nearly everything turned up to the 
 max. Great Job Microsoft. Recommend if you have a computer that can run it and like to fly that 
 you buy it. The game is more realistic than all the others and the new virtual cockpits are a really 
 great feature. The new 2-D panels are excellent as well. Finally they redesigned the ATC system. 
 This new one saves all the transmissions so you can see something if you forgot it. Overall this 
 is a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SGreen15LA
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 31, 2006 6:18 pm PT
Review:  Microsoft Flight Simulator X has all the flash and substance to be the next great PC program. The 
 aircraft, environment, and scenery are just plain beautiful. Perhaps my favorite aspect of the 
 simulator -- notice I said simulator and not game --is the moving scenery (cars, trucks, watercraft) 
 as it truly gives the aspect of being in a real world scenario. The only real issue with the simulator 
 is the fact that it was designed for brand new computers as the sim will take a huge chunk of hard 
 drive space (15 gigabytes) . I installed it onto my laptop, which is fairly new (about a month old) 
 and Flight Simulator X slowed it down considerably. I would recommend FSX for those who have PC's 
 with extremely powerful processors, a massive hard drive with tons of free space, and a boatload 
 of RAM, otherwise you won't be able to get the best from the next line of great flight simulators. 
 Anyone who enjoys the world of aviation will love Flight Simulator X-- provided their computers 
 can handle it.
  
  Fly High! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slasher70
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 31, 2006 8:19 am PT
Review:  Alright, so I couldn't play this game decently since it choked the life out of my Pentium 4 3.0GHz 
 with 512 RAM and 256 Nvidia video card. I'm sure it's not the best machine out there, but I'm also 
 sure it's ablo to run most games released recently. The game is unplayable, since it will take 
 almost an hour to install and will have serious framerate issues even in the lowest quality settings.
 
  Stick to FS 2004 till a powerful enough PC comes around.
  I guess this game is much better than it's predecessors but what the hell, it felt like playing 
 a recent day game on a Pentium 2.
  I'm giving it a 1, since it's impossible to play this thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neighdawg
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 31, 2006 12:22 am PT
Review:  Fans of Flight Simulator 2004, and the rest of microsoft's Flight Simulator series, will be pleased 
 with this beautiful game. However, you need a mean machine to run this beauty, yet to run this 
 game on its superb graphics you'll have to wait till windows vista and direct x 10 is released.
 
  
  New things-
  -your camera in the virtual cockpit does not stay stationery. it moves beautifully, like you're 
 flying a real plane. -Traffic is way better. You can move in jetways, and can see cars and can 
 Pros-
  -superb graphics
  -A massive giant leap from FS2004
  -You have the whole world to explore
  -A treat for fans of the series
  
  Cons-
  -VERY LONG 
 loading times
  -eats 15gb of hard disk space
  -hard to get a smooth frame rate
  -not likely you'll be able to play this game on its best
  
  Graphics-
  Superb. amazing. the 
 virtual cockpits look fantastic. Weather, clouds look amazing too. Very high detail models. The 
 sun is looking amazing, and you get that feeling that you want to cover your eyes.
  
  Sound-
  Not much of a 'big step', but it is still way better than FS 2004's sound. I think that 
 there even is a 5.1 suround sound, option, that you can use. Value- DO nOt buy this game if you 
 like planes. By it if you really really really really really like planes and flight sims. YOu will 
 need a big update to your pc.
  
  Summary-
  This is an amazing game, but suffers from being a 'too good' game. But it is good that there is 
 a big graphics option, so that other gamers could use the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acsguitar
Rating: 8.2
Date: Oct 30, 2006 11:00 am PT
Review:  My order is in the mail currently but I've played the demo and am I long time player of fs2004.
 
  
  Lots of complaints sound the same as in 2004. Frame rates are unacceptable , Looks beautiful but 
 slows down .
  
  I found that the best way to deal with this is to find a happy medium. This game looks alot better 
 and even on lower framerates I believe the graphics make up for the problems.
  
  For me I enjoy mountain, Desert and Island flying. So the big city frame drops don't bother me 
 as much.
  
  Be aware the modders will make this game way way way better. They will lower texture size and come 
 up with ton's of tweaks. If you are getting 10 fps I would say in 6 months with some simple tweaks 
 you should be getting 16+. This is a game YOU need to tweak as Microsoft as usual does a horrible 
 job testing their software for the masses. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acloves
Rating: 5.8
Date: Oct 29, 2006 12:06 pm PT
Review:  Microsoft shouldn't had released this game before windows vista and directx-10. I have a 2 year 
 old pc and game runs and looks awful!
  Of course they knew that most people wouldn't be able to afford the new os (vista) pc's or the upgrade... 
 so they went and released it. In my opinion, stay with flight simulator 2004 until you can afford 
 to buy the better system! They should also change the minimum requirements to play game to higher 
 setting.. (at least more ram) . I have 1gig ram, the 32mb video card, game settings are at low, and 
 still have trouble with it... slow frame rate. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: markt50
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 28, 2006 4:39 am PT
Review:  This game just doesn't want to run on my PC. It's not like I have a particularly poor PC, I've 
 got an AMD dual core 4400, 2gb CAS 2.0 RAM, 4 SATA drives in 2 x RAID 0 volumes and 2 of these 
 drives are WD Raptor 10,000 RPM drives and a Nvidia 7800 GTX Extreme Edition. It all sounds incredibly 
 geeky, but basically I expected FSX to run much better than it does.
  
  I've spent most of my time with this game tweaking the multiple graphics and game setting trying 
 to get acceptable framerates and I invariably fail. FSX often plummets to single figure framerates. 
 I can tweak the settings (read as lower everything!) and it does become playable, it's just that 
 it then looks like FS 2004.
  
  I'm also not that impressed with the new terrain system. The first thing I did was take off from 
 my local Airport (Teeside in the UK) and it looks terrible, it's full of huge lumps and divots 
 in the ground that are just not there in real life. Sure, if you go to the major airports it all 
 looks ok, but still not very impressive.
  
  The actual flight experience is quite good once you get your system tweaked so it runs ok. I also 
 like the aircraft that come with the sim.
  
  I guess that overall I just don't see this as such a big jump from FS 2004 as I was expecting and 
 it runs very badly on todays technology. I think this is a game for future hardware. I fairly certain 
 that it will run fine and look great on my high spec, DX10, Vista system I inted to get in a years 
 time.
  
  I also want to mention the activation system. This is very poor. After installing you have to put 
 a code in and it connects with MS to activate the sim. The problem is that your only allowed 2 
 activations apparantly. But on my system it only allowed me to install it once. I have a dual boot 
 system with XP Pro and VISTA RC2 on it. After installing on XP I wanted to see what it ran like 
 on Vista but it refused to activate saying It had already been activated on another PC, despite 
 the fact that this was the same machine, just a different OS. Very, very dissappointing as I've 
 now had to install a little something to enable me to run a game that I actually purchased legally. 
 Talk about forcing people into using questionable software!!!
  
  So in conclussion, it's not a bad sim, it's just that I'd recommend waiting until you can get a 
 PC capable of playing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JzDog
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 27, 2006 1:14 pm PT
Review:  Flight simulators are as flight simulators do. You like them or you don't... there is very little 
 middle ground. If you are a flight sim buff, then Flight sim X represents the pinnacle.
  
  If you are familiar with older version, you can hop right in and fuel up somewhere along the Grand 
 Canyon. If you are unfamiliar, there is plenty of tutorials and beginner missions to bring you 
 up to speed. There is as much depth and complexity for the pros (or as little for the rookies) 
 as you want to use. The addition of mission is nice. It adds some varied gameplay and each one 
 tends to have a few surprises. For example, an early mission has you landing in beautiful Alaska. 
 As you approach the runway, you realize there is a large cruise ship in your glideplane.... flying 
 the missions both build flight skill and present real world obstacles that you may not see coming.
 
  
  The graphics are a large improvement. I have a decent box, and with everything near cranked I get 
 lower-than-I-would-like framerates. But the additon of better terrain and a now live world so much 
 enhances the enjoyment of the sim that it's a fair tradeoff. After all, you don't NEED 30 FPS in 
 this type of game. And moving boats and cars is a big step up from the static worlds of years gone 
 by.
  
  I am anxious to see what the modders will be able to do. Flight Sims have always had a great community 
 that comes with lots of planes to download and mods of all kinds. And... I have not yet tried the 
 multiplayer aspect which is supposedly vastly improved. If you are a flight buff or like flight 
 simulators at all.... this is a great addition to your library. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spartan1191
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 24, 2006 6:40 pm PT
Review:  this game is the best and the most realistic flight sim game ever. I have had the other versions 
 and i could not resist myself from buying this. The graphics are terrific and the way you talk 
 to the airports and land is pretty realistic. The other thing good about this game us lets yoyu 
 configure the realism that you want the game to have. This game though is not for beginers and 
 it will be a little hard to get through with the control of the game. the tutorials are fairly 
 easy and they teach you a lot about how to everything from a single manned aircraft to an airbus 
 in a matter of hours. You can also mess with the controls in the cockpit and look around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flightjam
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 4, 2006 8:49 am PT
Review:  Its graphics and sound and gameplay are very realistic and all the new features they added in it 
 are great and make the game much more lively. It sucks kind of that you need a very good computer 
 to get the best out of it but even with an average computer I'm sure you can get great gameplay 
 and graphics and all the good stuff out of it. Who wouldn't want to travel all over the world and 
 see how it is with all types of planes, and another cool thing about it is the missions and stuff 
 that teach you how to get better at it. This game is surely a great one but I have a feeling that 
 they can come out with some in the future that will be even more highly defined. But not soon. 
 That was my last oct.25 review. but now i got to say that af ter seeing some other screen shots, 
 and game play videos for how the game is going without vista it seems pretty bad. i still believe 
 the game is cool and will work very well on vista but it was kinda stupid to bring this game out 
 like 1 month before vista and dx10. makes people feel upset that they will have to spend like 300bucks 
 on vista or a new powerful computer. In a way, u know how they have been saying that its unbelievable 
 that they are sellling this game for only 50 or 60 bucks cause it has such great capabilities and 
 so much put in to it? well in a way they are wrong.... this game is more then 300 dollars when u 
 want to play it at the best abilities because u need the best computers and everything to not whine 
 about how it has bad framerates or its hard to install like others have been. in the end this is 
 my new rating of the game for now.. i will probably give my final third rating after i have actually 
 played the game myself following in a month sometime in january... because i want like others to 
 wait till vista is out on PC along with direct X 10 to get the best out of this game. My final 
 say is GREAT!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sandpiper121PP
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 23, 2007 11:24 pm PT
Review:  My System Specs are...
  
  AMD 64 Dual Core 4200
  Asus A8V Deluxe Motherboard
  500 W Ultra Power Supply
  2 Gig of PC 2700 Memory Ram
  GeForce 6800 GT 256 Meg
  2 7200 Sata 
 Hard Drives
  Sound Blaster X-Fi
  52 X Asus CD/RW
  16 X MSI DVD
  
  I, like most, was very anxious for this version to come out. Why wouldn't one be with all of the 
 hype they did on it. Then when I did get it, like most, was very dissapointed in the biggest issue 
 in the game, FRAME RATES! Lets first look at the game over all and then get into detail. The demo 
 ran just fine on my system but then when you think about it... that was just one small region. 
 That is one of the reasons I feel so many people were mislead with the final product. Let's face 
 it... the world is a big place and there is alot of ground to cover. I live in the Pacific Northwest 
 so I will use that as my example. With the above system I can, if I choose, turn on the graphics 
 all the way up. If I do however... I can expect to get anywhere from 5 to 12 FPS in dense populated 
 areas. This becomes highly noticable and disruptive to the gameplay. If I turn the graphic settings 
 on lower, like low to midrange, I can recieve about 10 to 16 FPS in very dense areas. It would 
 seem that the 3 major things that reduce your FPS are the Density of your World, the water level, 
 and then traffic on the roads or water. I also know from past experience with MSFS products that 
 air traffic and weather really do effect your FPS as well. In outlaying areas, like mountain ranges, 
 I can recieve up to 20 to 26 FPS on full graphics, So there is to be a sacrifice on the users part 
 to how they wish to run the game. I can understand this say if you were running a system that was 
 over 2 to 3 years old, but not on a system that is less than 6 months old or younger. My technician 
 friend has a very high end system, with a Dual Core Processor higher than ming and the new GeForce 
 7900 PCI-X card. He too cannot even run this version at the highest end without suffering in dense 
 population areas. His frame rate is slightly higher than mine but only by a couple FPS. That is 
 just sad really being he gets the latest and greatest usually before others do and he is even having 
 problems running it.
  
  The graphics are great in the game I must admit, when you turn them all of the way up. The eye 
 candy just pops out at you. The freeways and roads are just bustling with cars everywhere. The 
 water traffic is very nice too. I usually go and see the main sites first to see how they made 
 improvements on them from the last version. Niagra Falls was quite the dissapointment in this version 
 being that it lookes like a fake BMP with water bursting out of the seams in spots. Stonehenge 
 looks more realistic though and the plains around it are like they are in real life. I have yet 
 to see Mount Rushmore and some of the others but from some of the lesser ones most people would 
 not go to see... they did make subtle improvements. The buildings, when you turn up the graphics, 
 are one of the more noticable improvements in the game as they are not just repeated over and over 
 again in most areas. That gives a more realistic approach to the game. The water is by far where 
 they spent their time improving in the simulator. I must admit it does look nice, even though it 
 still has several flaws to it. When you turn up the graphics on the water on high you get nice 
 reflections of the houses on the banks as well as the trees and everything else on the coastline. 
 The problem is that all water does not flow in one direction and it does that in the simulator. 
 It has the appearance of always moving in the same direction even though the wave appearance is 
 flowing in the opposite or cross direction. I personally was dissapointed in the visual experience 
 here. I did however land a float plane in Crater Lake and was very impressed with both the water 
 effects comming off of the pontoons and the reflectivity of the plane with effects in the lake. 
 The movement of the plane by the water was also nicely done.
  
  As far as the sound goes... it was done very nicely. I usually fly the Ultralight for viewing perposes 
 and the sound of the wind as it whistles by you was a very nice effect. The engines on most of 
 the planes have a very nice sound as well that is slowly becomming more realistic as the sim progresses. 
 I think the best effect I heard in the sim was as I approached Niagra Falls. I could hear the falls 
 as I approached them crashing into the rocks below. Very nicely done. The special effects of the 
 tires and wing flex were a nice addition to the sim as well. Seeing the tires smoke apon touching 
 down and hearing the squeal of the tires was very nice. Even though to have this effect you have 
 to turn up the grahics but if you are willing to sacrifice FPS for some special effects... it can 
 be worth it. The choice of more planes was also a nice addition to the sim. I purchased the Proffesional 
 Edition and it has a lot of planes and variations of colors which is nice to see for a change. 
 Not just stuck with the same old one or two colors for your plane... but 4 or 5 to choose from 
 makes each flight a new experience.
  
  One of the things I loved about MSFS was that they usually had preloaded missions that would take 
 you by the new facelifts of the more important areas, ( Mount Rushmore, Niagra Falls, ect) .) Those 
 are no longer and now you have to search for them or know where to find them if you want to see 
 them. I found that very dissapointing as I love to see the vast improvements in the game. They 
 instead chose to put Missions for challenges in which seem like fun... but they could have included 
 both I feel.
  
  In conclusion, being that this game is all about presentation, one would ask why Microsoft would 
 produce such a game like this knowing that the modern day computers would not be able to run it 
 very well if not at all. Supposively this version is to take advantage of the Duel Core processors, 
 but I believe that will only be after Vista comes out from what I have heard. Also... I have heard 
 rumor that it is supposed to utilize Direct X 10, that of which none of the modern day cards are 
 going to be albe to support from what I also have heard. No matter what the case is... the bottom 
 line is that unless you have a very high end computer.... you are going to probably have a less 
 than what you expected experience from this version of the sim. This might be one of those games 
 that most users will be able to play on full graphics in the future... but not at the present time 
 for the average user. My recommendation is wait to purchase it after all the hype and for technology 
 to advance. Then you will be able to enjoy it as it was meant to be played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cagnaccio74
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 23, 2006 5:31 am PT
Review:  Flight simulator X is by far the best and most complete flight simulator ever, no question about 
 this.
  The big question is... can your computer handle it? Well, sadly the answer is, for most people, 
 a loud NO - at least at the highest level of detail.
  
  Fps -Frames per second- is the only problem of FSX and it is a huge one.
  On my computer (Athlon 
 64x2 4200, 1Gb 800MHz RAM, ATI X1950XTX 512Mb) the performance at medium-high level of detail is 
 -sadly- poor, that is below 10fps in urban areas, making it impossible, as an example, to accurately 
 fly aerobatic maneuvres.
  
  To my knowledge, Flight Simulator X is the most resource-eating game ever, and can create serious 
 performance issues even to systems that can run Oblivion or FEAR as smooth as silk.
  
  That said, FSX delivers the best flight experience ever seen on a computer screen.
  The aircrafts 
 are nicely depicted, with some top-notch 3d modeling, just see the excellent and brand new Grumman 
 Goose or the updated Extra 300.
  The terrain engine is excellent, providing a good 3d detail EVERYWHERE in the world. Less popular 
 areas may not be very accurate, but will be definitely beautiful to see and rich of details (even 
 birds! Elephants in Africa! Whales in the ocean! Cars and trucks in the highways! I am speechless!) .
 
  The new mission system provides some arcade fun (and achievements, in form of patches) to anyone 
 looking for it... and it's XML based so, sooner than you expect, you'll be able to add dozens of 
 new ones.
  
  There's a lot to say about this game. Improved online mode, Red Bull air races, next-gen special 
 effects, carrier landings, whale whatching.... FSX delivers a fantastic experience and an AMAZINGLY 
 flexible development system, that will genereate thousands of add-ons.
  
  Really. An astonishing amount of content, fun and visual pleasures.
  But BEWARE you will need 
 a tremendous amount of computing and graphic power to handle it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JeffreyCor
Rating: 4.4
Date: Oct 22, 2006 6:02 pm PT
Review:  After all the hype for this version expectations might have been high, but even with that this 
 falls far short of the mark. The new super graphics require such a high end system that to take 
 advantage of them you'll need a cutting edge system far above what is needed for every other game 
 on the market. When graphics are turned down to provide usable frame rates they are no better and 
 in fact at times worse then the previous version. The missions are mostly childish or tutorials 
 with only a few real missions, which was promoted as one of the new features of this version. The 
 new dynamic traffic is really good, with moving cars, boats, aircraft, everything bringing the 
 world to life. The weather effects are another good point here, with pools of water on the road 
 in the rain. If they had only added these two items and kept all else the same as in Flight Simulator 
 2004 this would have earned a good review. As it is they greatly reduced the playability from the 
 prior version with only a few positive additions. This one may be worth revisiting later on but 
 as it stands now this is a pass. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Valkyrie_44
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 20, 2006 11:08 am PT
Review:  Last time I really got into a Flight sim was Falcon 4.0, after that point most titles have either 
 been a definitive rehash, or a total letdown to my expectations.
  
  Flight Simulator X on the otherhand is pretty darn good, pretty much everything about this title 
 allows some sort of adjustability. Your graphics, sound, and pretty much some of your controls 
 can be easily adjusted to suit your level of piloting experience. Graphics, on my X1950XTX this 
 game shines, the environmental effects in this title are stunning. As of late, if some adverse 
 weather condition is going in Real life out side I will load up FSX just for the challenge of flying 
 it out of a local airport.
  
  Sound, Anything less than Surround, is not doing this title justice. Alot can be appreicated when 
 you are flying around and can have that further feeling of immersion when you turn your head, and 
 wind / engine noise stays where you expect in real life.
  
  Controls, now this part is a joy. I using this sim on a Flight-Link rotor-wing G-Stick III w/ collective 
 and pedals, very nice and responsive. Now, the big thing with this title is if you are heavily 
 concerned that you cannot run FSX, it probably could mean you cannot run it. This is a very stout 
 title which to get all the bells &amp; whistles you got to sppend some dough, and right now that 
 won't give you all the best due to DX10 , that along with the cards yet available at this point 
 in time.
  
  If you love your flight sims, and you are sure this title can run on your system, then by all means 
 this will go great in your library. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yacbos
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 20, 2006 2:18 am PT
Review:  well am an olllld flight sim fan i played them all since the first one
  and i must say this one am impressed
  a looooot of improvments in the gfx engine specially the 
 terrain i couldnt belive it althou the FPS isnt that high even on my x1900xtx but still its a gigantic 
 world to render the plane model is awesome but i would suggested if they really wanted to make 
 a revolution wut about making the window transparent and add a refraction option in the gfx ? it 
 would be realllly nice
  well the terrain is so good but still i would recommend some extra land marks to be more beautifull 
 but after thinking if with these settings and the fps is so low if they added any more i dont wanna 
 think about the outcome lol
  ok and the sounds they really need a lot of improvements since the audio quality isnt that much 
 fancy
  here is all i got . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: e_boulanger
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 19, 2006 4:24 pm PT
Review:  I am not going to repeat what other people said on how good this program is (and it is very good) , 
 I prefer to elaborate on what I found very disappointing. After reading the review which said that 
 this software was very demanding on the hardware, I was really sure to find a program that tax 
 my system to its limit, thus explaining the poor frame rate.
  
  I have never been so wrong. I have a PC with a Pentium Dual Core 3 GHz, 2GB of RAM, nVidia 6800 
 with 256 MB. Well you won't believe it, but while one of my processor is at 100% (which is normal 
 for a game) , the other is just at 5%. For a program that is supposed to require a very powerful 
 machine, I would have expect it to use multi-cpus (much more difficult to program though) . The 
 graphic card may explain part of the bad frame rate, but not using both CPUs is kind of insulting.
 
  
  I feel a little cheated by Microsoft for this. I believe they will use this program to promote 
 the DirectX 10 and force us to buy more expensive graphic cards, while I am sure they could have 
 produce a much smoother game by using both processors. What do they think? That we are going to 
 use the other processor for Excel spreadsheet while we play Flight Simulator... come on.
  
  I really like this simulator, very realistic, great online documentation, fun missions, great tutorial. 
 But not using both CPUs to enhanced the frame rate is really disappointing. If someone has found 
 a way to use both CPUs or has a different experience, please send me a note. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wiifanaticnumbe
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 19, 2006 12:13 pm PT
Review:  We all know that the FS series are really fun and worth buying, but when Microsoft released Flight 
 Simulator X Everyone wanted the game both fans and non-fans. Now if you have a good computer this 
 will come out great and fine, but most of us don't and that is the problem! To have a real flying 
 experience you would need to put the graphics really low, traffic low, and scenery low. But if 
 you put Anti-alising and chose a filter that your graphics card could handle it will come out great 
 and won't freeze so much. Now let's go to the planes, FSX has a lot of plane for Deluxe and the 
 Standered, they both have boings and Airbuses and varietions, but Deluxe has about 6 more than 
 the original. The Missions are a real challenge and are fun. They have tutorials which is recconmended 
 to do before you do the other misions because everything you have learned would need to be used 
 in the game. Like the Oil Rig mission, if you can't fly a helicopter you will crash and I learned 
 that the hardway! The game is really fun and the graphics are okay, but sure enough this game will 
 be awesome when Vista and DX10 come out :) . Hope you engoy this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Swat4fanatic200
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 19, 2006 6:32 am PT
Review:  This game is one of the best in series. So far though I have noticed that on my system I still 
 only manage to get 10-12 fps and even then it dips down into the 7-8 fps. My current system setup 
 is Processor: Intel Duo Core 1.83 Ghz
  RAM: 2 GB
  Video Card: ATI x1400 256 MB
  
  Even with this setup I still get some choppy frame rates. You can tell that Microsoft has spent 
 some time of this game and that they did listen to their customers. The AI has gotten a little 
 bit smarted in this game. And the ATC has greatly improved. It now sounds that you are at a real 
 airport when you request takeoff clearance and taxi clearance. Another noticeable change is that 
 Microsoft has spent some time changing how the airport looks and feels. Now you can actually have 
 jet ways, fuel trucks, and there are actually push back trucks now. Overall this game is worth 
 the wait. Just make sure you have a beefy system to be able to handle the graphics. I highly suggest 
 this to anyone who is a Flight Sim enthusiast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bmw540286
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 18, 2006 3:30 pm PT
Review:  Yes, you doooo need a good pc to get 100% from this game. But it is important that we all have some 
 faith. Because this game is going to look stunning when Windows Vista is realised, and Directx V.10 
 is installed. That's when this game is really going t show off!!
  So if you have the dough to kick your computer in to high gear, and invest in vista when its FINALLY 
 ready, this game will look cracking!
  
  Yes, you doooo need a good pc to get 100% from this game. But it is important that we all have some 
 faith. Because this game is going to look stunning when Windows Vista is realised, and Directx V.10 
 is installed. That's when this game is really going t show off!!
  So if you have the dough to kick your computer in to high gear, and invest in vista when its FINALLY 
 ready, this game will look cracking! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: laversn
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 18, 2006 2:33 pm PT
Review:  It looks similar to the content in FS 2004. The actual interface where you create a flight has 
 been improved totally. One of the best improvements is the sound of the engines in the big boys! 
 The 747 and the Lear sound huge.. with the real rumble.. I think this is the best I have ever heard 
 it. I like the air traffic controllers as well. I found that in FS 2004, the automated air traffic 
 system was not always perfect. You would sometimes be on a final approach after so much work with 
 the flight you set up, only to have it not even guide you in to the airport at the end. Did anyone 
 experience this?? It happened to me a lot but I think that one is fixed in this version.
  
  Overall this game looks very good .. but I will say this. If you owned FS 2004 and you spent money 
 with 3rd party add-ons, with new aircrafts, advanced weather options, dynamic cloud packages, traffic 
 software and scenery packages, it could look very good too, .. maybe even better than this standard 
 set here.
  
  This game looks very good overall, just have a smokin' computer to boot and you'll be in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gapd0rmen132
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 15, 2007 1:08 am PT
Review:  Microsoft's Flight Simulator franchise has been around for quiet a while now and after nine versions, 
 Microsoft and ACES have released their 10 th installment, Flight simulator X. The game play from 
 this version has changed much from FS2004. With the addition of missions, players are given a sense 
 of acheivement and a progression to the simulator. Although the addition of structered missions 
 and new game play elements adds on to the Flight simulator expierence, all that is cut short due 
 to choppy preformance on even todays most powerful computers (including my own) and takes away 
 some of the entertainment factor in the simulator. The graphics this time around has dramatically 
 improved since the previous version. All new terrain lighting and high resolution saterllite imagery 
 make its apperance, and only makes me wonder how this game will look running on Direct X 10. In 
 other words the graphics are simply stunning (be sure to use your video card's Anti-Aiasing and 
 Anistrophic filtering which will not only increase the sims graphical detail but, improve preformance 
 somewhat but not drastically) . The aircraft sounds hasn't improved that much since FS2004. Some 
 of the same sounds are recycled from fs2004, however with the added support for 5.1 surround sound 
 and the realistic roar you hear from ai planes on take-off makes up for this. To put into perspective 
 on how steep system requirements are, I tested this game with the following system: Intel core 
 2 quad cpu at 2.67GHz each core, 2GB of ram, and two nvidia gefprce 7950 gt's SLI and believe or 
 not, my maximum fps when flying around New York, with full detail, was 5 fps, yes five, as in the 
 single digit number Overall this is a pretty demanding game which requires a really good computer 
 however, the graphics are simply eye popping and sharp, the new dynamic living world adds on to 
 the immersive factor in the sim, the missions are really fun and challegeing, and the new lighting 
 and bumpmapping effects are amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FreyarHunter
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 17, 2006 10:49 pm PT
Review:  NOTE: Deluxe Version
  Machine Specs:
  INTEL CORE 2 Duo @2.13ghz 1Gig DDR RAM (Overclocked from 600 to 800mhz) (2x 512mb Dual Interlaced)
 
  Geforce 7600 GS (512 mb VRAM/Passive Cooling)
  Soundblaster Live! 5.1
  
  After installing this behemoth of an install that took 14.5 gig of space on my hard drive I was 
 more than salivating over my raging imagination of how it would look. Before this issue I also 
 was running a 1.4 ghz AMD processor, as of now however you can see I'm doing much better.
  
  I turned up the settings after being less than thrilled about the reported recommended settings, 
 I decided to do some tuning based on what I hoped would be great. Boy oh boy did I make a mistake. 
 It went from running easily at 30 frames or more down to 7 or worse. The biggest hit seems to be 
 the various additions of livelyhood that have been advertised so heavily about. The water traffic, 
 animals, and car traffic seems to be the cause here. Not only that, the water (being at maximum) 
 seems to give a moderate hit causing rates to drop to about 20.
  
  As for the new ATC support (Deluxe Only) , it turns out to be very easy to use once you spend maybe 
 ten minutes looking it over. The only downside is that when you compare it to the FS2004 modules 
 used for the same actions, it seems a bit slower, with no taxi route information available on screen, 
 nor any explicit details on the airport's runways. You must be familiar with them as if you were 
 an ATC in order to act as one with any orders.
  
  Along with the ATC support (Deluxe Only) , there has also been the addition of VOIP support. However 
 with the recent release and new players on the field, you'll get more than enough overlapping pilots 
 and ATC to give you a headache. Luckily there is the ability (assigned by the admin) to require 
 people to tune to the correct frequency to talk to one another. Sadly this means that new players 
 will be out of contact with other players off the bat and be stuck with the chat window with the 
 repetitive How do I talk? Not that I mind teaching people how to play, it's the issue of one person 
 coming in, being taught, another person coming in, being taught, and so on.
  
  All in all I like the possibilities of this edition of FSX, however I am worried that even with 
 my major investment of a hardware upgrade, I won't be able to see the world as nice as it was advertised 
 (or even as close) . Even with the system specs above, I am unable to get land textures any better 
 than that of the distant LoD Oblivion land textures, which is understandable but still disappointing.
 
  
  This is one that you want to pick up, purely for some functionality increases, though if you have 
 a lower-than-average PC, you might get the same video as a modded FS2004, but if that's all you 
 can run, run FS2004 with it's modules. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: culleyboy2004
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 17, 2006 9:57 pm PT
Review:  alot of extra features ,and plenty of info if you want to learn how to fly, I dont see much difrence 
 in the graphics from 2004 , i was quite dissapointed with the graphics and i have a pretty high 
 end computer and the game looks nothing like the screenshots on the fsx website, the missions are 
 good and if you are wanting to be able to fly around with a friend in multiplayer then this is 
 a game for you. I personally think microsoft could have done a much better job. so all of you that 
 have a low end system you are better off not buying this because it will be a shock to you when 
 the scenery and planes look like the previous flight sims. the system requirements are way too steep, 
 u will need about 12 gig of space just for the standard edition.
  
  i am running a 3.4 ghz pentium d with 2 gigs of ram and a nvidia 7600 gs will everything maxed 
 out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pete5506
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 17, 2006 6:54 pm PT
Review:  My review of this game, I loved it, it was the best flight sim ever. This game is a game for all 
 people and ages but one thing to say ishave a joy stick when you play this game. Lets start with 
 the gameplay, the gameplay was super if was perfect better than no other flying game, if you want 
 real get this. Graphics, dam those graphics are the best game graphics I have seen in a long time, 
 it looked so real to me. sound was the best with my 7.1 I could hear every thing that was happing. 
 The game is worth 50$ all the way. Could have done a better job on putting more things to fly but 
 still perfect. Thanks for reading 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A_A_A_A4
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 17, 2006 3:41 pm PT
Review:  Hi
  I run this game on my computer perfect , and i voted it by my computer.
  Specs are :
  
  2.4GHZ intel Dual Core 2 2GB Ram DDR2
  
  256MB DDR3 GeForce 7900GS
  
  200GB HDD
  
 
  DX9 I installed it on 30Minutes , and then i went to the game , and first i played Multiplayer. 
 multiplayer was amazing specially ATC. the Airports get improved and they looks good , like a real 
 airport . Aircrafts graphics are perfect , My graphic card runs it good , some people voted it 
 6 , i know y , because their computer's spec's sucks and they never played it on a good computer.
 
  
  if you have a good computer i recomneded buy it ( 100% ) ,
  
  CYA 
::::::

::::::
UserName: S1010
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 17, 2006 8:02 am PT
Review:  Well, not many changes in Flight Simulator X... The game is like an 'update' to the other games 
 of the serie. Maybe the newest things are the missions, which are cool. Flight Simulator X has 
 good graphics but I think 1% of people can run it in the ultra high qualities. The sounds of the 
 aircrafts is very realistic, and looks like real. The G-Effect is another new thing. When you throttle 
 or curve the aircraft, you will feel like moving your body into the plane. The textures are cool 
 and the models are very very detailed. Detailed world and a big database of buildings. I think 
 Flight Simulator X is a good addition to the flight simulator franchise. I give it a 8.9. Great! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blue_Tomato
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 17, 2006 8:53 pm PT
Review:  First off, do not believe the screenshots posted by Microsoft, they are totally not representative 
 of what the game looks like in real! I have never been more disappointed of the visuals in any 
 game before. And, yes, I have a high end 3D card and a funky new computer (overclocked Geforce 
 7900, 2Gb RAM, 3Ghz Dual Core CPU, all newest drivers) . And, yes, I am running the game with all 
 visual settings maxed out.
  
  The graphics suffers badly from very low resolution ground textures. Its all basically low resolution 
 satellite photos smeared over some heightmap, with some blocks and simple 3D objects spread all 
 over to resemble buildings, trees, stones etc. It looks dreadful and unnatural. You see flat buildings 
 in the satellite photo, then some poorly textured cubes on top of it resembling the buildings. 
 The objects does not blend into the scenery in a natural way at all, and it looks very artificial. 
 Especially at low altitudes. If you plan to fly anywhere near the surface of the Earth, dont bother 
 with scenic rides.
  
  I have not yet come close to seeing anything in the game like in those screenshots posted by Microsoft 
 here at Gamespot. In fact, the gap between the screenshots and the graphics I experienced in the 
 game is so huge, this borders to unethical marketing measures. Maybe Microsoft will try pull it 
 off by saying you have to wait until Vista and DirectX 10 for that kind of quality, but the graphics 
 is so fundamentally poor I can hardly believe a simple DX10 patch can take care of it. And forcing 
 fans of the game to buy another of their products just to play it the way it is meant to be is 
 just not right.
  
  Having said this, it is also fair to say the graphics IS better than the 2004 version.
  
  One 
 of the new graphical improvements you will notice is the new dynamic scenery. This means there 
 will be cars on the roads, whales in the sea, planes in the airports etc. But, again this fails 
 to live up to its promise. The cars for one looks terrible. They hardly can follow the roads, turn 
 in steps of 45 degrees at a time and they magically disappears into thin air, then pops back at 
 random times.
  
  And, then there is the issue with framerate. Despite the poor graphics, they managed to pull off 
 an incredibly low framerate. Even on my high end system, I get around 10 FPS. Turning down the 
 graphics detail is the only way to deal with it, and then the graphics will suck even more than 
 it does already on high level. So, choose between unplayable or graphics that would make your 
 friends laugh at you for bothering spending time with something as ugly.
  
  Yes, a lot complaints about graphics here. But seriously, why bother to fly around to explore a 
 flat and dull looking world? And, the complaints are deepened by the fact the screenshots looks 
 so much better than graphics in a regular gaming session. This is not just happening on my PC, 
 many people I talk to had the same reactions on their systems.
  
  A newcomer to the series is the inclusion of missions. I had high hopes for this, as just flying 
 around with no aim or goal like before is a bit too dull after some time in FS 2004. Unfortunately 
 the missions I tried so far have been very boring, and a test of patience more than any real fun. 
 However, it is still an improvement from before, and it definitively makes it more interesting 
 to learn how to fly a plane, a process that takes a while due to the many controls and reslism 
 of the simulator.
  
  You also have an online play mode this time, which really does not appeal to me, so I did not try 
 it out. If you want to share flying over blurred textures with your friends online, this might 
 be for you though.
  
  As always, there's lots of little bells and whistels to play aorund with, you can change a lot 
 of settings to customize your flying experience. And the game has much and realism. However, I 
 hoped they already covered this well enough in previous versions, and could focus on the visuals 
 this time. So, I am not giving credit for old technology already present in the old version.
  
  In conclusion, this new version is better than the previous, but only slighter where it counts. 
 Especially if you take into account the large number of third party enhancements out there for 
 the 2004 version. The graphics really fails to deliver to the expectations. From FS 2002 to FS 
 2004 we saw a dramatic improvement in graphics, from the 2004 version to FSX I did not even really 
 notice much difference at all.
  
  Only for hardcore flight simulator fans, which is a shame, as the genre clearly has much more potential 
 than this... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaC2k6UK
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 15, 2006 3:00 pm PT
Review:  Impresion- The first thing I thought when I got this game was how huge it was... the first time 
 id ever seen a 2 dvd game and had a 45 min installation. When I finally got it up and running i 
 found out the game has alot of content that id never imagined, Missions leading from tutorials 
 to jet airliner flights with virtual co pilots, engine failures and red bull air races. As ive 
 played and enjoyed fs2004 whitch i only stopped playing when i got this game 2 days ago the thing 
 that I liked the most is still here in flight sim X at new levels, the world, the aeroplanes and 
 the flight planner. you can fly anywere in the world from ur hometown airport to ur dream airport 
 flying threw this new immersive and realistic world with cars, ferrys, other aeroplanes, animals 
 and of course the airports. The airports are now the way they should be in real life with airport 
 vehicles like luggage carts, airwalks, buses and pushback vehicles. The graphics in this game is 
 really just unbeliveable ive not seen a game look this good and not even being on high settings. 
 there is one thing to really take notice of before buying this game.... the steep hardware requirements 
 if you dont have a decent pc with atleast a 3.2gh processor, 256mb graphics card and about 2-3gb 
 of memory or you will really struggle to play this game. My pc is pretty decent and i can only 
 run this game on low-medium settings. With the release of Vista and directx 10 coming up I really 
 cant think of anyone other than Microsoft having the hardware to play this game with dx10. Good- 
 Realistic and emersive world, just about every airport in the world, missions are an awesome addition 
 and give flight sim a much better feel,
  good variety of highly detailed aeroplanes, Multiplayer capabillites including being a air traffic 
 controller will take ur flight sim experience to a new level.
  
  Bad- very very very very steep hardware requirements, Steep learning curve for newbies.
  
  
 Overall- flight sim x is defenatley the next gen of the series weve been waiting for and will satisfy 
 any fans. real world pilots will also feel right at home with this game and anyone with a passing 
 instrest or wannabe pilot like me will love this game and will last for years to come. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
