-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Microsoft Flight Simulator 2004: A Century of Flight
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sim/microsoftflightsacof/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul 28, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.8
Critic Score: 8.7, 27 Review (s)
User Score: 8.9, 1,803 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Microsoft Game Studios
Genre: Flight Simulation
Date:     Jul 29, 2003 &raquo;  
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
You could say that Flight Simulator 2004 is still a straightforward simulation, but if you have 
 even a passing interest in flying, you'll definitely get your money's worth from it. 

  For more than a century, human beings have used engines to pull, push, or lift themselves into 
 the air, and for the past two decades, Microsoft Flight Simulator has let armchair pilots explore 
 the exciting world of aviation on their PCs. Microsoft Flight Simulator 2004: A Century of Flight 
 commemorates this double anniversary by offering more planes, better graphics, and more options 
 than ever before right out of the box, but the game will likely reach its full potential only if 
 it receives great support from its player community.  

          These clouds aren't just for show. A violent thunderstorm brews within.     

  Fans 
 of the previous games in the series will be up and running in no time thanks to the new game's 
 familiar interface, but Flight Simulator 2004 also happens to be the most beginner-friendly game 
 in the series. It's easier to access game options, and each option is actually explained by the 
 game. There's also an excellent interactive flight school hosted by aviation veteran Rod Machado 
 that serves as a surprisingly deep training tool.  

  There is enough written material included about the planes, the history of flight, and flying tips 
 to fill an encyclopedia. As such, Flight Simulator 2004 represents one of the rare instances in 
 which online documentation is wholly superior to a printed manual. The documentation includes articles 
 that are supplemented with Web-page-style hyperlinks, which lead to more detailed information about 
 a particular topic. Some even whisk you directly into the cockpit so you can actually re-create 
 the particular flight (or series of flights) discussed in the article. While the fascinating historical 
 articles by  Flying  magazine's Lane Wallace were commissioned by Microsoft, many of the other 
 articles included are reprints from magazines like  AOPA Pilot , and it is amazing to see how the 
 real-world tips provided in these stories can be directly applied in the simulator.  

  And you'll need all the information you can get, because most of the new planes in Flight Simulator 
 2004 are cranky old antiques that require your undivided attention. The entire history of civilian 
 flight is represented in the game, from the original Wright Flyer that can't even struggle its 
 way out of ground effect to a Boeing 747-400 that can haul hundreds of people higher than 40,000 
 feet at Mach .85. You can retrace Lindbergh's steps across the Atlantic in a re-creation of the 
 Ryan NYP "Spirit of St. Louis," see what Amelia Earhart's trip across that same ocean was like 
 in a Lockheed Vega, and haul freight over the mountains in a Douglas DC-3, among other things. 
 The Sopwith Camel was not brought over from the previous game into the new game -- this is strictly 
 a civilian flight simulator, without any military prop planes or jets, but it still offers plenty 
 of different aircraft to fly.  

  If you plan to fly any of the vintage aircraft, be sure to invest in some good controller peripherals, 
 specifically rudder pedals or a joystick with a twist handle. It's impossible to take off and land 
 in taildraggers like the Piper J3 Cub and Curtiss Jenny without a lot of dancing on the rudders. 
 And once they're airborne, ponderous antiques like the Vickers Vimy biplane can barely turn unless 
 you stomp on the pedals. Rudder controls also are a must for flying the two helicopters modeled 
 in the game, which include the familiar Bell JetRanger and the new Robison R22 Beta. The Beta is 
 a skittish little chopper that is hypersensitive to controller input and offers a wholly different 
 flying experience from that of the heavier and more stable JetRanger.  

  The overall flight model feels very similar to that of Flight Simulator 2002 and is well suited 
 to capturing the nuances of the game's slow and underpowered historical planes. For example, when 
 landing a taildragger, you should be able to float in slowly at a steep angle for a traditional 
 three-point landing or come in more quickly at a shallow angle to land on the main wheels, keeping 
 forward pressure on the stick until the tail gradually loses lift and the tailwheel gently settles 
 on the runway. The latter option is essential for landing a small plane like the Piper Cub in high 
 crosswinds, and the new game models it perfectly.  

          Flight Simulator 2004's virtual cockpits are interactive, so most of these switches can 
 be adjusted with your mouse.     

  Aside from the historical aircraft, Flight Simulator 2004's big news this time around is its weather 
 effects. You can set up in-flight weather any way you like or go for the ultimate in realism by 
 having the game automatically download real-world weather reports from the Jeppesen database every 
 15 minutes. We tested this feature in a variety of weather conditions flying out of a hometown 
 airport, and sure enough, the conditions depicted onscreen corresponded with what we saw from the 
 window, for the most part.  

  Even if you don't choose to use the real-world weather option, the game can dynamically change 
 its weather conditions so that a flight that begins in clear blue skies might end up in pure instrument 
 conditions as you try to feel your way down to the runway in a violent thunderstorm. The addition 
 of true 3D clouds that drift through the sky and merge into one another as weather conditions change 
 adds a realistic touch to the game that static screenshots simply can't convey.     

  Flight Simulator 2004's graphics are improved over those in the previous game, but they're not 
 exactly photo-realistic just yet. Buildings still use low-resolution textures, and the ground looks 
 much better from a high altitude than it does when you're flying low and slow. The game's interactive 
 virtual cockpits are a great new feature, since the ability to control most switches, knobs, and 
 dials with the mouse when the 3D cockpit is enabled adds some much-needed functionality to that 
 view. Unfortunately, the textures used in the virtual cockpits are low resolution and very ugly -- hopefully 
 this is something that inventive computer artists among the Flight Simulator fan community will 
 address. On the outside, the planes look beautiful, with vastly more-complex models adorned with 
 gorgeous high-res textures that sparkle in the sun, and the game also sounds impressively realistic, 
 since the developer recorded engine noises from actual planes for use in the game.         The 
 planes might not look great on the inside, but they're beautiful on the outside.     

  Of course, whether you can enable all of these fancy new effects and maintain a reasonably smooth 
 frame rate depends entirely on your computer. At 1600x1200 resolution with all the graphics settings 
 cranked at their highest, our 2.66GHz test system with a Radeon 9700 Pro video card and 1GB RAM 
 tended to slow down in thick cloud cover. Things smoothed out considerably as the fluff cleared 
 from the sky and the buildings in dense cities faded into the background, but if you've got a computer 
 that just barely meets the game's minimum system requirements, don't expect to run the game smoothly 
 with all the graphical settings turned all the way up, unless you actually prefer to watch a slideshow. 

  Almost a thousand new airports have been added to the game's world database, providing more than 
 24,000 places to land ranging from quaint grass strips to bustling international airports complete 
 with signage. The game also features an improved air traffic control (ATC) that works well for 
 the most part. At controlled airports, ground control provides taxi clearances and instructions, 
 and it is possible to follow the taxiway signs to your destination or turn on a handy overlay that 
 visually displays your assigned route.  

  Once in position, you can tune the tower frequency with a single keystroke to ask for clearance 
 for takeoff, and the air traffic controllers then answer air space transition requests, provide 
 directions to the airport, and provide other information when you are airborne. It's also possible 
 to request clearance to land, and the air traffic controllers respond with instructions for entering 
 the landing pattern or simply tell you to come straight in to a specified runway. If you screw 
 up, the controller will tell you to go around for another try. The system works well thanks to 
 an improved ATC menu, but it's still far from perfect. For instance, when we tried landing a small 
 Cessna at a large international airport in exact accordance with the provided instructions, an 
 AI-controlled DC-10 jumbo jet thundered overhead with only a few feet of separation since it was 
 landing on the same runway. Still, ATC works much better than it did in the past, and casual players 
 can just as easily ignore it completely.  

  Another new feature in the game is the use of modeled Garmin GPS products -- these can be helpful 
 when interacting with ATC and planning approaches. They aren't easy for beginners to grasp, because 
 they use the same buttons and knobs as their real-world counterparts, but a training video is included, 
 and once you get the hang of it, the GPS becomes an indispensable tool for finding your way around 
 Flight Simulator's vast world.  

          Historical markers are included for the Wright brothers' historic first powered flight. 
     

  Despite the addition of all the new planes and the excellent library of information in Flight Simulator 
 2004, longtime fans of the series will find it to be a rather conservative addition to the series. 
 The core flight model and terrain graphics engine remain more or less untouched, and on the whole, 
 the new game seems very similar to its predecessor. The new game's multiplayer is still rudimentary 
 and allows only for basic formation flights and air races, though you can't expect much more from 
 a noncombat sim.  

  Still, longtime Flight Simulator fans should definitely upgrade to the latest version. And the 
 new game's flight school and interface changes may be just what's needed to bring in newcomers -- especially 
 those who were intimidated by the series' traditionally steep learning curve. You could say that 
 Flight Simulator 2004 is still a straightforward simulation, but if you have even a passing interest 
 in flying, you'll definitely get your money's worth from it.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (65 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Dylmiester
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 3, 2009 5:22 am PT
Review:  Brakes off, FULL THROTTLE! Flight Simulator 2004 is your basic "learn how to fly" game, but more 
 in-depth. Hover along the ground at 15 mph in the Wright Brother's plane, or fly from LA to Miami 
 with a Boeing 777. If you're a beginner, take a flying lesson or watch tutorials. If keys aren't 
 realistic enough, go buy a joystick. Just don't hit that high-rise when you get to Miami Intl!
 
  
  A neat thing about FS is that there's no real objective, just flying every plane you own. The best 
 thing is that you can download more planes and jets off of the Internet if you're unsatisfied with 
 your current squadron. You can also use the settings to make engine failures, aileron malfunctions, 
 gauge quits. and much more for that OMGwe'regonnacrash fear. Use the ATC to guide you when you're 
 lost. Set the weights of your passengers on board. Set your jet to autopilot when you have to sleep. 
 Just have fun by flying past landmarks like the Eiffel Tower, CN Tower, and even the Arj-e-Milad 
 Tower in Iran.
  
  The performance is all coordinated by your quality preference. If you want the full monty of quality, 
 expect a loading bar for 2 minutes. But you're best to stick with medium quality. But other than 
 that, get your Extra 300s stunt plane, take off from Berlin, and don't look down!
  
  Dylmiester 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arthursiew
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 19, 2009 3:34 pm PT
Review:  This flight simulator is no doubt one of the best ones out in the market. I think that this would 
 be the best for those who don't have a computer that meets Flight Simulator X's requirements. 
 
  Flight Simulator 2004 offers a great selection of planes. You can fly commercial planes such as 
 Boeing 747s, 777s, 737, etc. or older planes such as the Wright Brother's plane. You can also download 
 third party aircraft for free on websites such as simviation. com. 
  Creating a Flight is a fun, yet simple way of releasing boredom. You can fly to many different 
 places. I tried flying from San Francisco to Shanghai and it took about 30 minutes, but you will 
 have to raise the Simulation Speed otherwise it would take as long as it would take to fly there 
 which would be thirteen hours. 
  There are also a great selection of airports. There are lots of them in the United States as well 
 as ones outside of the country. 
  Flight Simulator 2004 is a very realistic flight simulator and anybody with a computer that can't 
 run Flight Simulator X should get a copy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Colezatharvey
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 25, 2009 10:49 am PT
Review:  Overall, FS2004 is a good game. You can fly any where in th world, land at at any airport in the 
 world.......... but after a while, it starts to get boring. There should be more planes, the current 
 ones are slow and boring, better scenery, the ground is flat!, and when you hit a building or the 
 ground, you should crash, but you don't, you just go straight through it, bounce off the ground 
 and continue flying unharmed!
  
  On the plus side, the planes are easy enough to fly when you get used to it (apart from helicopters, 
 they are ridiculously hard to fly) . You can also go sightseeing around the world, statue of liberty, 
 london eye, eiffel tower, etc.
  
  Sadly, I can't get FSX because I need to upgrade my PC, but I have heard it is good, apparently 
 it has missions to complete, unlike FS2004, and many more planes.
  
  I really like the feature which allows you to capture photos and videos, and the many different 
 veiws that you can play from. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Human_Flaw
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 25, 2008 9:02 am PT
Review:  Microsoft Flight Simulator 2004: A Century of Flight was released in July of 2003, but is still 
 one of the most enjoyable and comprehensive flight simulator packages around... And one of Microsoft's 
 best Flight Simulator products to date.
  
  Ironically, FS2004's main strength is it is (now) five years old. Most modern computers that are 
 configured for gaming and equipped with a fast CPU and mid-to-high-end standalone graphics card 
 will have no problem running this game at high resolutions with all the graphical details and effects 
 set to near maximum. This alone makes FS2004 a more viable alternative to casual gamers who want 
 to fly, but don't have top-of-the-line gaming PCs required to run the latest edition of Flight 
 Simulator, MS Flight Simulator X (10) , released in 2006. 
  
  Also, FS2004's installed disk space is just over three Gigabytes. In contrast, MS Flight Simulator 
 X is 15 Gigabytes when installed. This means FS2004's overall system footprint is much smaller 
 and less taxing on systems as a whole. 
  
  In addition to FS2004 not being very resource intensive, it's other main strength lies in the virtual 
 flight model and the open-ended world pilots can fly in compared to previous versions of the series. 
 There are approximately 24,000 airports, big and small, modeled in a virtual world that spans the 
 entire globe. This "sand box" approach has been a staple of the MS Flight series since the beginning, 
 and FS2004 expands and improves on it compared to its predecessors, MS Flight Simulator 2002, and 
 2000. No longer are virtual pilots limited to just a few airports on various continents. They now 
 have the entire Earth to fly around in and explore at their leisure. 
  
  FS2004's main content celebrates 100 years of civilian flight. This includes historic milestones 
 in aviation like the Wright Brothers first flight at Kitty Hawk, Charles Lindberg crossing the 
 Atlantic Ocean, and other historical flights and scenarios from the 20th century. Not only can 
 you read about these historic flights, but you can also experience them by flying the actual aircraft 
 and following the documented routes their real life counter-parts used when they accomplished these 
 history making flights. If you favor the Golden Age of aviation, before jet engines and modern 
 avionics, then FS2004 is definitely a game for you because its attention to detail and focus on 
 this era is unprecedented.
  
  Conversely, most of FS2004's modern aircraft offerings is pretty standard. Included are single 
 engine GA (General Aviation) planes like Cessnas, twin engine jet planes like Lear jets and of 
 course, large commercial jetliners like 747s and 737s. Two helicopters are also included, the Bell 
 Jet Ranger and a light German Helicopter, but like in previous MS Flight Simulator games these 
 are more of an afterthought to try and vary the number of available aircraft that can be flown. 
 The aerodynamics of the helos are not accurate and as a result, almost impossible to fly. Thankfully, 
 this is where third-party addons, freeware and payware, play a significant role in expanding FS2004's 
 replayability and functionality. There are thousands of aircraft available for download from various 
 websites and this is where FS2004 and most of the MS Flight series true potential is unleashed.
 
  
  Microsoft Flight Simulator 2004: A Century of Flight is an excellent addition to the MS Flight 
 Simulator lineup of games and a very comprehensive flight simulator package overall. Even though 
 it is aging and has slightly below average graphics, it still has a a lot to offer flight simulation 
 fans both new and old. Its celebration of the first 100 years of civilian flight is unique and 
 unparalleled in any flight simulator to date. The ability to fly almost anywhere in the world has 
 been improved on the most in this edition compared to previous versions. Many flight sim communities 
 are still supporting FS2004 after five years with various addons, so this simulator's future still 
 looks bright and beaming with possibilities for years to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Destructabom
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 12, 2008 8:02 am PT
Review:  I first bought flight unlimited 3 for my computer, went on it and it was rubbish graphics rubbish 
 gameplay rubbish overall rubbish. Then i was looking around shops for a new flight sim and i found 
 this and what a game it is. 
  
  I first went on it not knowing anything about flying a plane but after taking the lessons i now 
 know how to do lots of things. It teaches you over many different lessons each one expanding your 
 knowledge of flight. 
  
  I then went in search of extra downloads and found a number of great websites specialising in this 
 game. for example www. flightsimworld. com this has lots of aircraft for download. 
  
  I love the way this game uses real satellite images for the world even though you cant really see 
 it clearly until you are around 7,000 feet. 
  
  The buildings in the game is one let down for me though they are not detailed enough. It looks 
 like no attention has been paid to them at all. 
  
  The aircraft are amazing there is a lot of detail in the panels and the actual aircraft. 
  
 
  Good:
  . Aircraft
  . Graphics
  . AI
  . Game play
  . Lessons
  .
  Bad:
  . Not enough time spent on the buildings 
  . No multiplayer anymore
  
  Overall i rated this 
 game 9.5 because i believe that this game is brilliant 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maybe137
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 8, 2008 2:00 pm PT
Review:  this is the best flysimulation game the cotpitt is real and real pilots train with this game and 
 students that is on univercitys well i got to tell you that it's not easy like an real airplane 
 the best choice when you first time play the game is to go to the training center and complete 
 all the lessons then you can sturt the funnest fly from airport to airport and from country to 
 country
  well i was really surprises when i was flying over las vegas in the night at the game it looked 
 exactly like lasvegas all the happy lights and over alska to the snowwy landscapes well it's hard 
 at first you maybe not like the game but later you will just say yippi you can choose if the flight 
 time is like real x1 or x2 and more but the highest is x64 i mean how fast the time will go and 
 you will loose fuel lke real airplane like you cant fly from exampel from newyork to london with 
 boeing 737-800 its small and cant have the required fuel. but exampel boeing 747 from newyork to 
 london is the right size and the right capacity 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pret1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 30, 2008 9:56 am PT
Review:  Forget about Flight Simulator X because this is THE Flight Simulator game. When I got this game 
 I found out just how much fun flying actually is. To tell the truth I got this instead of Flight 
 Simulator X because i know it wouldn't work so I don't really know how good X is. I would've got 
 this game even if X did work on my PC because there's more detail about historical flights and 
 planes and stuff. Better than the previous Flight Simulator games too. A Century of Flight is great 
 for people who want to fly and people who just want fun flying like me. It was well worth 15.00 
 for me. Bought it from GAME. It's good that you can fly from and to nearly any airport in the world. 
 You can also choose if you want unlimited fuel or not. Kind of a cheat really but I don't care. 
 And you can adjust how realistic your flight is too. You can fly the 1903 Wright Flyer to the new 
 Boeing 777-300. My personal favourite plane is the Mooney 'Bravo'. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: savetehhaloz
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 17, 2008 1:20 pm PT
Review:  When most people think of a flight simulator, many people think of Microsoft's Flight Simulator 
 series. FS2004 improves upon FS2002 but doesnt really change all that much except offer a bit more 
 eye-candy and historical airplanes. This however doesnt take away the fun of flying a 747 through 
 areas you aren't supposed to. However, if you want to be authentic as possible you can set up your 
 own flight using the flight planner. FS2004 offers and in game real time GPS and fully working 
 dials. It also offers an interactive virtual cockpit (you can change your view of the aircraft) . 
 The game however doesn't offer all that much except for add-on aircraft and some missions. This 
 however will bore many people unless you are a real airplane afficionado. 
  It is recommended to rent this game first before buying but if you really like airplanes it is 
 recommended for its realism and add-on aircraft. 
  
  Reccomended over FSX. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stanger277
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 21, 2007 2:54 pm PT
Review:  This is a very solid flight simulator that is very realistic. The airports are nicely designed 
 and the planes are realistic. But they could look a bit better. The default crash scene is very 
 bad but with the right add-on that can be fixed. There are some problems with the flight physics 
 at high altitudes, but only with certain planes. Everything else is as real as it can get , such 
 as the instruments or the failures. One major problem I have to point out is that sometimes your 
 plane sinks into the runway and you crash. Everything else is great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ClassySloth
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 8, 2007 8:24 am PT
Review:  This game right here is the best bet you have in the Flight Simulator series so far. To be honest, 
 Flight Simulator X cannot even compare. I mean sure, it has fancy next-gen graphics not yet paralelled 
 by any other PC Flight Sim, but you need a killer computer to run it, and alot of patience. This 
 game meets everyone halfway, while not compromising ANYTHING. Exceptional graphics, a wide variety 
 of add-ons, and enough airports to make even the most decisive person go nuts trying to settle 
 on a destination. I think they've done extremely well with this game, and the add-ons only enrich 
 the game. Ever try to land a Cessna 172P on a moving carrier? I can say I virtually have. Ever 
 launch a Boeing 747 off a carrier deck and make it? Yup, that too, thanks to a great program called 
 3wire. You can make endless scenarios. You can choose from a pre-made Microsoft flight, such as 
 Lindbergh's flight across the Atlantic, or the first flight at Kitty Hawk. If you have a really 
 creative mind, you can make up some strange scenarios of your own. I flew a 747 from Alaska to 
 somewhere in Mongolia, and landed with 1% of my fuel supply left, and.. umm... heheh, I crashed on 
 landing. But in all seriousness, if you want to make a scenario/fly to a local airport, I'll be 
 you it's in here.
  My only pet peeve with this game was that it took awhile to load if you slewed to another location, 
 or if you went to a high altitude, and I'd like a bit of space activity in this (c'mon!! the X-15 
 can go past 100k feet!) , but other than that, this game was good. Definitely worth checking your 
 local game retailer for (you could probably pick it up at $19.99, as opposed to Wal*Mart's rip-off 
 price of $29.99) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lukemaneiro
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 12, 2007 6:15 pm PT
Review:  I have to say, I never had a big interest in flying... but once I put my hands on Microsoft: Flight 
 Simulator 2004, I knew it had something different. All the things you can do, all the things you 
 can learn from this game.
  
  The gameplay is amazing. Just amazing. Airplane panels have many, many functions, though the controls 
 can be really confusing, since you should be overloaded with them.
  
  It has good graphics, though some places are REALLY different from reality... such as S&atilde; o 
 Paulo, a big... REALLY big city in Brazil. It was, basically, a desert with a few houses. Though 
 you can't have a whole world in 4 CD-ROM's, as I would say.
  
  The sounds are great, gameplay is terrific, but you the game feels a lot different when played 
 on a joystick, so if you're going to buy this, you should get one.
  
  Basically, Flight Simulator 2004 has done its job. It's a realistic, fun simulator. A MUST buy 
 for every person who enjoys flying... and also the ones that have a passive interest on it as well. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SMR-Venom
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 21, 2007 9:23 am PT
Review:  Flight Simulator 2004 celebrates a century of man made flight ever since the Wright Brothers flew 
 in 1903. This game exceeds its predecessors in all ways. Great graphics, sound, gameplay, multiplayer, 
 and just great fun. FS2004 has many airplanes from a small Cessna to a huge Boeing 747. Not to 
 mention all the add-on airplanes on the web. There are so many add-ons for this game, it is just 
 amazing and always makes you coming back for more. There are 24,000 airports so you will not be 
 putting this game down soon. Multiplayer is great. There is nothing like the feel of accomplishment 
 when you complete a stunt maneuver with your friend online. All in all, Flight Simulator 2004 is 
 a superb addition to the FS series and the best flight sim on the market. Any flight sim fan or 
 just a person looking for something new should definitely buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark_scrolls
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 16, 2007 1:34 am PT
Review:  Flight Simulator 2004 is by far the best Simulator to date. It comes with beautiful and realistic 
 landcape, oceans, clouds, rain etc and it has all the airports in the world! You can take the well 
 made tutorials on how to fly different aircrafts or you can venture into the skies on your own. 
 There are also third party websites that provide addons that will further enhance your experience 
 with flight simulator 2004. The downside of this game is that it has very limited aircraft when 
 you install it. However you can add all your favourite airlines and aircraft by downloading them 
 from third party designers. I highly recommend playing this game with a joystick as it makes it 
 even more realistic. You can also play with your keyboard but it will be harder and less fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AirborneAce
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 8, 2007 10:32 am PT
Review:  Ive been around airplanes my whole life, and have been flying in planes since I was 3 or 4 years 
 old. That said, flying is unfortunately an expensive hobby and not everyone can pursue it or fly 
 as much as they'd like. That's where flight simulator comes in.
  
  At first I was considering Flight Simulator X, Microsoft's latest version, but after trying the 
 Demo and talking to some flight sim fans, I decided against it. X really taxes your system and 
 lags a lot. (If you saw the commercials on TV, they even showed a bit of lag) . FS 2004 is the next-to-latest 
 version an d boy does it deliver. Not only does it have your usual mix of props and jets, it also 
 throws in a handful of classic and historical aircraft to try your hand at. There's a whole section 
 of the game devoted to these planes and their history. You can read articles about each of them 
 and the game has dozens and dozens of real-world flights these planes made. Want to try your hand 
 at Lindberg's flight across the Atlantic in 2-hour bursts? You can do it! Want to see how the mail 
 was flown from New York to Chicago in the 1920s? They have that too. You can even try your hand 
 at the Wright Flyer to see where it all began.
  
  Besides the historical flights, there's also a hefty bit of flight lesson content in the game. 
 Articles complete with mini-videos cover almost all the aspects of flight. Everything from landings 
 to navigation to airspace are covered in easy to read articles with plenty of graphics to accompany 
 them. There's also a full set of flight lessons you can take which are fully narrated and are a 
 great teaching tool. I found them particularly helpful since Im starting flight school soon.
  
  The only downside to FS 2004 is that the graphics aren't the best. Of course, imagine how bad 
 the game would chug if it did have life-like graphics. They do the job, however, and you can easily 
 load up your local airport and fly around and recognize the area. Things like railroads, highways, 
 radio towers, lakes and mountains are all there and bigger cities include multistory buildings 
 to add to the atmosphere. Keep in mind though, that flying at 5,000+ feet you can't really notice 
 all the buildings on the ground (even in real life) so its not that big of a deal.
  
  This sim sells for about 20 bucks at your local WallyWorld, so there's no reason not to pick up 
 this great sim if you're a fan of aviation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ACESandElGHTS
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 6, 2007 7:42 pm PT
Review:  I bought Microsoft's first flight simulator back in 1984. Yeah, I'm old, so what. Thing is, I loved 
 that game above all else. Sure, I put it away to play Epyx Summer Games and GI Joe and Electronic 
 Arts' Racing Destruction Set and Skate or Die!, but that didn't mean I loved the game any less.
 
  From the drone of the propeller of your single engine plane to the view from the side window as 
 you guide it off the ground and look over Lake Michigan to the view of a fully-lit LaGuardia Airport 
 with New York in the background, the game was total magic.
  If it was that cool in 1984, imagine what 2004 must look and feel like. Still pure bliss to jump 
 in and start flying. In fact, consider this an endorsement for every version of Flight Simulator, 
 though I particularly liked this one for its inclusion of historic milestones in flight, starting 
 with the Wright Flyer.
  I never thought flying with a group of other nerdy characters would be fun, but you'd be surprised 
 how cool it is to get online and pick an airport and go fly planes with... people you've never 
 met. Good times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CloudedFuture
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 30, 2007 12:09 pm PT
Review:  This is A fantastic game. Howver, If you wish to fly without hitting the ground every 15 seconds 
 you'll be best getting a Joystick. It makes it alot easier to keep your plane steady.
  
  This game has alot of Aircraft to choose from and you can Literaly Fly all over the world. This 
 will keep you occupied for A long time. You can also choose from several Famous Historic flights, 
 Such as the wright brothers flight at Kittyhawk or any others.
  
  If you want A game to make yourself feel like A Pilot then this is the game for you. I definately 
 Reccomend it to anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Corrosion
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 15, 2007 6:53 am PT
Review:  I opted for Microsoft Flight Simulator: 2004 when I found out (like hundreds of others) that I 
 could not be able to run MS: FSX (the new one currently out) on decent frame rates, as my computer 
 hardware consists of low end junk. Fortunately, I could crank up the settings for this game on 
 high with absolutely no problems.
  
  MS: FS 2004 is a superb game, even if it is (as of this writing) outdated , though by not too much. 
 That shouldn't really turn you off if you could not play FSX, as playing this game is essentially 
 the same as playing the new one. The only difference being the graphics. FS 2004 is fantastic with 
 the environments and sound. Flying over numerous airports can be a great experience even if you 
 aren't a real pilot but a virtual one. Not to mention the planes and other aircraft are well done.
 
  
  Apart from some crappy, old textures close up and weird physics (plane crashes look so fake; some 
 unrealistic plane movements) , there are several beautiful scenarios that are to found throughout 
 this virtual world. Flying over Hong Kong at dusk is my favorite. Dozens of single player missions 
 should keep you busy before moving on to your own custom scenarios. Best yet is the sheer amount 
 of user-made items/planes etc that can be found online to download. My only complaint is that doing 
 the same thing over and over again, that is flying, gets tiresome.
  
  I'd recommend this for play if you have tons of free time to kill or interested in planes or even 
 interested in getting up in the air virtually. The learning curve is tough to master. Note: Get 
 a joystick (or controller) ; you'll need it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: driver64
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 1, 2007 1:59 pm PT
Review:  Microsoft Flight Simulator 2004
  
  I have a lot of fun playing FS2004; it has great graphics when your high above the ground; the 
 outside of the planes are amazingly nice but the cockpit could look a lot better. The game play 
 is great fun and I have a lot of fun flying!
  
  I think there should be at least six or seven passenger jet liners- [ (some from Bombardier and 
 Airbus and more from Boeing) ] -even though the game is about the history of flight.
  
  This game is definitely worth your money if you enjoy simulators like and realisim!
  
  (I am)
 
  9.0 SUPERB! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rbish1
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 6, 2006 4:25 pm PT
Review:  I had not tried a simulation before. Ten minutes into my intro flight, I had felt as though I had 
 landed an airplane on my own, Perhaps even more so ; I felt confident that I could do the real 
 thing if I had to. Between flight instructions, I would take off in an historical aircraft, do 
 a big circle and touch down on the landing strip. I had flown the Wright brothers craft, the first 
 airmail flight, The one that Lindy flew to Paris. Does it sound as though I am talking about the 
 REAL thing? Well,,,, one gets that feeling. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thelibertyjap
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 7, 2006 12:21 pm PT
Review:  Flight Simulator 2004 was not a ground breaking title. Instead, it built upon the new features 
 added in 2002. This series has been known to produce on a cycle of 4 years. Starting with FS 98, 
 this game was revolutionary for its time. When FS2000 was released, it felt similar to 98 with 
 some added enhancements. With the release of FS2002 there were a load of new features including 
 ATC, among other things. Every other title released in the series is a addon, if you will, from 
 the previous version. The title following the addon tends to feel like a completely reworked game 
 with many new features that change the feel of the game. Sadly 2004 feel on the off year where 
 a addon feeling game was produced.
  
  FS2004, although not earth shattering, reinforced the new features from 2002. The atc options have 
 become much more thorough with smarter ai traffic and controllers. Graphics have improved slightly 
 along with detail within airports. In the end, the only reason to buy this game is just to stay 
 current with the community. There hasn't been much of a change since the previous version and the 
 new planes featured, mostly vintage, are only worth noting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: steven141
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 20, 2006 5:26 pm PT
Review:  This game has been out for a few years now but nevertheless it is still a great game to play. The 
 graphics are good considering it came out in 2003 and there are lots to do.
  
  This simulator is used by some trainees that want to be pilots in the future due to the amount 
 of detail in this game also.
  
  You have a variety of aircraft to choose from and ones you can download too. There are thousands 
 of airports to choose from ranging from dirt runways to international airports such as heathrow. 
 If you happened to get bored during a long haul flight you could always put autopilot on and go 
 do something else for a while by setting the altitude etc. However if you are manually flying you 
 could use the gps to navigate where to go which does help (trust me) . Again the amount of detail 
 there is, is terrific, near all the buttons and levers in the cockpit are useable and also your 
 aircraft could have failures of some sort and you may need to try to restart your engines etc. 
 
  
  To start you could take the flying lessons to find out how to operate the plane which is highly 
 advisable and useful ( although iv never done them except 1) because at first it is very hard (especially 
 landing which is most difficult) and also lets you try out each stage.
  
  There is an option of online play too although i have no idea how to use it since it just wont 
 work. I am told it is great and obviously there would be other people there waiting to take off, 
 taxi etc so you cant que jump or if you do i think you would most probably be kicked from that 
 server.
  
  I recommend this game to anyone interested in flying in real life or just likes flight sims. Also 
 i highly recommend purchasing a joystick too. I personally favor the saitek evo which is absolutely 
 astounding and is not too expensive.
  
  Thank you for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tyronecarr2
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 15, 2006 9:39 am PT
Review:  Microsoft's Flight Simulator 2004 is truely an Excellent work of art visually and in concept. With 
 the right hardware FS2004 is a stunning vision of the world of flight on your Monitor. I, personally, 
 have played numerous Flight Sims and this one literally takes the cake. From every aspect of the 
 game it is "As real as it gets." The weather of FS2004, with the 'Real World Weather" feature makes 
 flying a more exciting experience. The new planes and the thousands of airports give the player 
 more to be immersed in. If anyone is really an enthusist or even has the slightest interest in 
 Aviation then this is the game for you. This game is well worth the cost but look out because a 
 new addition to the Flight Simulator Series is on it's way this October, Flight Simulator X. Check 
 it out as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ripstamk
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 9, 2006 12:51 pm PT
Review:  Lots to do and see for the experienced and new simmer. 
  
  It looks dated now but gameplay wise is still great and there is nothing more satisfying than flying 
 a full proc landing into a busy international airport with real world weather especially when you 
 nail it dead centre while crabbing into land.
  Loads of free and payware addons to download or buy in the shops.
  
  great to pick up and just 
 have a blast buzzin around one of the many detailed cities as a new flyer but put in the time to 
 learn about the fine arts of pcpiloting and you will get so much more out of this than just your 
 usual gaming experience.
  
  Easy to learn but it can take a lot of time and commitment to master it.
  
  sooooo looking 
 forward to fsx! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gapd0rmen132
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 11, 2006 10:36 am PT
Review:  When it comes to feeling like you're piloting a small plane over the Grand Canyon, only to find 
 yourself sitting in front of a computer monitor well Microsoft Flight Simulator 2004 does just 
 that. In other words... this game is very immersive. 
  The graphics are great, small details like trees, boats, clouds, and A. I. planes sharing the skies 
 with you really brings the Flight Simulator world to life. When connencted to the internet you 
 can also download real world weather so for example if its cloudy and drizzling lightly around 
 the area you live when you download the real world weather into flight simulator it's cloudy and 
 drizzling lightly in the simulation talk about immersive.
  The sound is really where this game lacks in although enviromental sounds like rain, thunder, etc 
 sound realistic and just like the real thing the jets (only the jets not the props, turboprops, 
 or piston planes) sound like over sized vaccum cleaners, for example, if you accelerate the engines 
 on the 737-400 they dont emit a loud roar but more like a low windy sound which is hard to describe. 
 Although some of the jet sounds don't sound like they should you can always download new ones from 
 the internet for free.
  Although there are very few defualt aircraft to choose from there are hundreds free to download 
 from the internet. Not only can you download new aircraft but new textures and effects, from new 
 water textures all the way to new enviromental lighting effects all these add ons and mods improve 
 and make the game look and feel even more realistic. 
  One of the greatest things about this game is its replay value. This game will last you about the 
 ammount of time until the next version of flight simulator comes out.
  Overall this is a great game and I highly recommend it to people who always wanted to fly an actual 
 plane, an interest in aviation, or looking for something new. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spymaster2301
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 9, 2006 10:08 am PT
Review:  This simulator is very realistic with clouds suns and shadows and even rain. There is even a option 
 to use real time weather which is updated ever 15 minutes or so. You will have more fun if you 
 have a joy stick because flying will become more easy and the more control you have over you r 
 aircraft. Before I had this I had another flight simulator it was called X-PLANE. The bad thing 
 is that I lost it some time ago. So I bought this one. I found it better then X-PLANE because it 
 had better options, how ever I hated to see the not much variety of planes in this. There was no 
 military planes or even space ship like the other one. So this lowered the score. Other than this 
 bad it is all good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tp640871
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 9, 2006 3:36 am PT
Review:  At least, until FS X comes out.
  
  The sound is realistic, the graphics are nice but a bit dated as of now, but when it was released 
 it was very nice, especially if compared to earlier versions. The virtual (3D) cockpit is really 
 nice, though a bit ugly with the throttles and buttons you can't use since they are blurred.
  
  The historical planes and flights are of course nice to have but don't really interest me that 
 much. The historical value and what you learn is of course good but as for deciding to fly the 
 Wright brother's plane or Learjet... there is no question for me, Learjet all the way.
  
  The third party content is enormous and there are thousands of planes for download on the web, 
 both freeware and payware. Not speaking of which, the ATC functions are cool too.
  
  The only let-down is the multiplayer support, I tried it once but was disappointed, though I've 
 heard this will be fixed in the new version.
  
  It covers the entire globe and has more than 24,000 airports. But if you should buy it now, no, 
 don't. Flight Simulator X will be released in a few months and it seems a LOT better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matthewlux
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 1, 2006 8:43 am PT
Review:  This game is OK on it's own but you should look on the web for free downloads that addon to your 
 game and make it much better. For example for realistic AI traffic go to: www. projectai. com (Make 
 sure you have TTools on your PC [just look for TTools on Google] ) This makes realistic AI traffic 
 and more planes for you to fly. The graphics and sound are excellent and the gameplay is excellent. 
 Buy this game if you can't wait but know that the next FS game (Flight Simulator X) is coming out 
 on Wiindows Vista at the end of 2006. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halofreak3487
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 13, 2006 9:48 pm PT
Review:  Picked this game up for $30 and it was worth it, hours and hours of Flight training.
  
  --Graphics --
  I was a little dissapointed when i played the game, because from the screenshots 
 on the box and Gamespot, the game had awesome graphics, i turned everything on High, still wasn't 
 clear, but for a standard simulation game, this game is the one to pick up. I don't notice that 
 much frame rate issues. and the graphics are decent from a far view.
  
  --Sound --
  The sound in this game is excellent, the people in the control tower sound real, and plus the flight 
 instructor actually knows what he's talking about.
  
  --Gameplay --
  Extremly difficult for me to master, but yet none the less had to do all the tutorials and still 
 i only know the basics (take off - flight - landing) but theres much more then that, when you take 
 off you have to wait for clearance (which i don't do) , in flight you have to talk to control tower 
 (which i just push random stuff) , landing... i land... but very sloppy.
  
  --Value --
  A should have game for every pilot.
  
  --Overall --
  If your going to be a future pilot pick 
 this game up, flight instructor already there, historical flights for you to try out, in other 
 terms --- Realistic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: usmc123456
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 18, 2006 4:01 pm PT
Review:  Microsoft Flight Simulator 2004 is an exellent game, the graphic are shabby but fail to push any 
 boundaries like the ground is not very well detailed and the trees are just green spots and when 
 you get close theyre 3D and slightly blocky but onto the gmeplay. The gamplay is exellent although 
 the controls are tricky, there's alot of controls, and it get's confusing. One your in the air 
 it all changes you can fly look at any landmarks and get to your destination. There is tons of 
 places to go, anywhere in the world, and theres ton of areas like one city or town could have 8 
 places to land. This game is fun and Immersive a 9.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nalanji
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 25, 2006 7:11 am PT
Review:  I am an addict to desktop flying. I fly for a virtual airline, they suggest use of Flight Simulator 
 2004 because it is so GOOD! www. vacanada. org is my personal airline. 
  
  Gameplay 10/10 ~ You can't get any more real then this, it is so real, and if you do somthing wrong, 
 the concequences are pretty harsh...
  
  Audio 10/10 ~ FS 2004 has amazing sound. The engines revving up and finally at full blast in the 
 air. The control tower, the gear and flap movements, all just amazing.
  
  Graphics 9/10 ~ The game is SO BIG, so it is hard to make everywhere look amazing, but it isnt 
 perfect in this dept. But they did try their best and it looks pretty good just the same!
  
  So please get this one! You'll have a blast! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thebrainiac
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 24, 2006 12:29 am PT
Review:  This is an amazing flight sim game. In the first 2 days i had it i spent 12 hours playing the intro 
 levels!!! its got loads of addons you can get and some freeware too. the graphics are good and 
 the sounds are quite realistic apart from the ATC voices, but this can easily be fixed if you get 
 an ATC addon because they come with better voices. Flying with the keyboard is a real pain, if 
 you get this game make sure that you buy a good joystick too. Dont get a wireless joystick because 
 they can have slower reaction times, so you would be more liable to crash (if you find a good wireless 
 joystick, please message me because i HATE cables, yet i want a good performance) . You can easily 
 spend hundreds of pounds on addons for this game, but i treccomend that you buy from a reccomended 
 dealer. 
  
  Overall this is an amazing game and you'd have to be nuts not to get it if you like flight sims. 
 Even if you only think you might like a flight sim you should get this.
  
  regards,
  
  thebrainiac 
::::::

::::::
UserName: J-mE_16
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 18, 2006 5:52 pm PT
Review:  are you wanting to be a future pilot... or simply just want to fly planes or just want to own a 
 plane and just want to fly around. well this is the game foir you. it does get a bit boring, just 
 flying a plane around all day, to me it gets quite boring but its still a great game. with great 
 graphics and a real simulator youll feel like your flying the real thing. if you want to start off 
 and youve never played before than theres the tetorial that teaches you everything. from taking 
 off to flying to the last stage landing. its a great game for all you airplane guys. even me. there 
 are also more highly advanced aircraft games like x- plane but this is still a good game to start 
 off with, learn with, and to just fly around and test your skills. if you want a air game you can 
 go buy this one no problem 
::::::

::::::
UserName: souldier_man
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 4, 2006 11:23 am PT
Review:  this game i mean sim is great. the atc usaly gets it right occasionaly i will almost hit a boeing 
 during landing. you must have a joystick or a yoke and pedals. also if you get board of the planes 
 ,there are thousands of the on the internet. this game is realistic and enjoyable. ut if you want 
 combat don't geet this sim. the online is fun. on a 200 player server it is fun if every one is 
 in the same genral area. i recommend this game to any sim fan or any one that flys real planes. even 
 people who are just getting interested in flight. i didn't know anyything about flying but the learning 
 center helped me alot. also the community around this gameis very friendly. and when you fly you 
 feel like you have been somewhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fireball2888
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 15, 2006 3:36 pm PT
Review:  This game is nothing less than great. To start, it's just so massive- you''ve got the ENTIRE planet 
 to fly ANYWHERE! from N. Y. C. to the Pyramids to the Himalayas and beyond! and even that is nothing- 
 The game has a MASSIVE online Addon database, form military, Scenery, civil, effects, and on and 
 on. Flying online is even more fun, although the connection isn't that fast, so other peoples planes 
 tend to lag, and also, if the other person has an aircraft you don't have, they just show up as 
 a Cessna. but that's probably the only weakness. learnign the basics only takes about 30 minutes, 
 but the more complicated stuff takes a long time/
  
  Gameplay- From takeoff, to the climb to cruise speed and flying altitude, to the landing and shut 
 down, this game keeps you addicted. while many say that you won't enjoy it as much if your not 
 into Aviation- that's wrong. there's plenty of scenery to explore, you can do great tricks, even 
 change realism settings to your liking. Multiplayer makes it even more fun, because you can fly 
 formation, and do long hops from 1 airport to another. the only reason i didn't give it a 10 is 
 because after doing long flights, you tend to get bored, and flying in singleplayer is very boring 
 in long flights, because you pretty much just put on autopilot and go get a drink and a snack or 
 watch TV, because you'll be bored out of your mind when your just sitting there. But overall, this 
 game is just fun, but you have to at least like aviation a tiny bit to enjoy it for long periods.
 
  
  Graphics- Well, the graphics are overall great. the default FS aircraft are very highly detailed, 
 from the cockpit to Virtual cockpit to outside. this game has good lighting as well. the effects 
 are, well, alright. the smoke effects are good, but other than that the default effects are alright. 
 the other thing i didn't like about it, is this- when your 50,00 feet , the scenery is great, th 
 clouds look good, not excellent, but when your 300 feet of so off the ground, the scenery isn't 
 good. it's boring, and the trees are 2d. the buildings look crappy, and have undetailed textures. 
 when your real close, the ground texture is real blurry. as a side note, 50% of the world is undetailed, 
 and has randomly generated scenery. that's really the only thing bad about the graphics. but, thank 
 god for the online comunity! online, you'll find thousands of scenery add ons, and some aircraft 
 are INCREDIBLY detailed. there is pretty much no limit to how detailed aircraft producers can make 
 there planes. i give graphics an 8/10.
  
  Sound- OUTSTANDING! the sound folllows the percent of throttle you have up, from gear sounds to 
 flaps to start up to shut down to door opens... so many different sounds, and the quality is great 
 too. there is absolutely NO flaws in the dound, i thought it was excellent.
  
  Value- the game's value is still very high, as the community has grown so huge, and th gameplay 
 is great. but since at the end of this year the new Flight Sim will come out, i didn't give is 
 a 10, but i still highly reccomend buying it. 
  
  Well, there you have it. Every day, i get into Teamspeak with my friend. and we go flying for hours, 
 on an online server. there's times when i'll stop playing for a bit, but i lways quickly come back. 
 this game is even better than World of Warcraft in many aspects. well, i hope more people will 
 get FS, and i hope you enjoyed this review.
  
  Sorry for the typos :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mkiritici
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 12, 2006 3:16 am PT
Review:  When I first heard about this game, I really felt that I should have it. For years I have been 
 searching it to buy, but unfortunately in our country it is so difficult to find original games. Then 
 one day I found it and paid a lot of money. I have been playing snce, and I can say that this game 
 extremely helped me. I am now a virtual pilot on a legal Virtual Flying site. I bought lots of equipments 
 and made my own cockpit, It gave me a lot, So I can say everybody must have it. First of all, it 
 is so difficult, so you can never fed up with playing, everyday you learn something else. Searcing 
 for updates, new planes, new tactics. The game is renewing itself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: girik9
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 15, 2006 5:40 am PT
Review:  GOOD:
  
  Over 24,000 airports to fly to all around the world
  Vast expansive landscapes
  Wide range of planes to choose from
  Very intutive controls; easy 
 to control
  Highly addictive
  Very replayable, this will keep you engaged for months
  Graphics are great; good draw distance
  Good range of missions to choose from
  
  BAD:
  
 
  Steep learning curve
  Slightly buggy
  Need a powerful PC to run well
  No dynamic airports/ no passengers actually get into the planes
  Multiplayer is not really good
 
  
  OVERALL: 
  
  Flight sim 2004; you love it or you hate it. If you are a fan of flight sims and have some degree 
 of a passion for flying, you should invest in this immediately, even if the next version (FSX) 
 is coming out by the end of the year. However, if you are not a fan of sims and are not patient, 
 you will probably hate this game. But for the others, Flight sim provides a much-needed alternative 
 to the first person shooters and can keep you engaged for months.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: unclejr
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 30, 2006 8:13 pm PT
Review:  I have stayed up until 3 in the morning playing this game. I have played many other Flight Simulators 
 and this one is by far the best. The aircraft controls are very easily accessible and communicating 
 with air traffic control is now a cinch. I highly recommend flying the Bombadier Learjet, I think 
 that is one of the easier planes to handle. Don't waste your time trying to fly the Wright Brothers 
 first plane, because if you try to take of with more than a 5 degree angle up, you will stall. 
 This game is a definite must buy for anybody with a love for Airplanes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SWTTVGfreak
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 25, 2006 4:27 pm PT
Review:  Microsoft Flight Simulator 2004 puts you behing the yoke of tons of airplanes. Ranging from the 
 1903 Wright Flyer, to the 777-300. The game world is the biggest game world I've ever played. You 
 can fly anywere anytime. Then you can go onto sites like avsim ( http://www. avsim. com/ ) surclaro 
 ( http://www. surclaro. com/ ) and Project Open Sky ( http://www. projectopensky. com/ ) and add on 
 tons of airplanes, scenery etc. But be careful there are things I reccomend before you rush out 
 and get this game. 1st GET A JOYSTICK, it makes flying much easier. 2. Make sure your computer 
 can handle it. Check out the minimum specs. Make sure your computer is well above before you consider 
 to have a fun reliable experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacobderosenoir
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 10, 2006 7:09 am PT
Review:  Here's a review from a newcomer to the Flight simulator realm. Big plus for this title is the lessons 
 you can take. A "real" virtual instructor will take your hands and bring you from a simple paper 
 plane builder to an airliner pilot. For me it was a revelation. YOU HAVE TO GO THROUGH those lessons 
 if you are new and quite frankly, this part of the game is not like most of the tutorial you've 
 try and wanted to finish so that you could enjoy the real game. The lessons are very gratifying 
 and fun to play (the instructor is somewhat funny too) . The satisfaction you get when you come 
 out of the coulds in the "flight by instrument" lessons and find the landing road perfecly aligned 
 in front of you is unbielievable. Learning how to fly with VOR, ILS and other instruments is a 
 great challenge and you can wait to get your hand on more notions. Passing the final test on each 
 steps are not that easy and when you do pass them, you get a real sense of accomplishment. You 
 have to put the practice time but the great thing is that you're not required to pass those test 
 in order to progress. I couldn't get the Commercial pilot test because I didn't had time to practice 
 and also because i believe that you must have a plane stearing in order to get that far. My poor 
 joystick wasn't precise enough to hold the required speed-altitude-bearing need to pass the test. 
 But I was able to continue in the lessons on Airliner piloting and could get sense of why airliner 
 captains are paid that much. 
  
  Now I can read an airfield chart, I know what every indicators in a planes means (the fact that 
 you can directly activate everyone knob, button and levers in the virtual cockpit helps get in 
 you the experience) . Keyboard shortcut still exist but you might want to get Voice commander or 
 even the free PIlot assistant MOD on the web which will help you give verbal command to a virtual 
 co-pilot. 
  
  The number of Mods you can find on the web is astounishing (planes, scenary, cockpits even boats) . 
 This adds to the already impressive assortment of planes you get in this edition. Try to fly the 
 Wright Flyer (first plane ever) and if you can repeat the exploit of the Wright Brother on your 
 first flight (full realism setting of course) , you're either a reincarnation of one of them or 
 a cheater. 
  v 
::::::

::::::
UserName: travis120000
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 10, 2006 5:22 am PT
Review:  this is a great game if you like planes the graphics are the best if you have the right stuff for 
 your computer wich is about 600 dollors worth of extra eqitment buts its all worth it because the 
 flights simulators only get better every 2 years dont forget to get flight simulator x coming soon 
 this game will alos have beter graphics than 2004 and it will also have a completly diffrent multiplayer 
 wich will be way beter becouse the old one has lots of problems but hopefully this one will be 
 10 times better than the 2004 version whcih will help out alot in many ways but 2004 is still good 
 and it does deserve some credit 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nick41388
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 18, 2006 7:38 pm PT
Review:  This game is easily the best flight sim on the market. You can take off/land at basically any airport 
 in the world. If you are a beginner, then I strongly recommend NOT to just jump in and start flying. 
 The tutorial mode teaches you everything you need to know. The ability to land on oil rigs and 
 aircraft carriers is amazing. There are planes and helicopters such as the Wright Flyer, Spirit 
 of St. Louis, and the Bell Ranger helicopter. If you even have the slightest itch to become a pilot, 
 you HAVE to get this game. The joystick I recommend for this game is the Logitech Wingman. GREAT 
 GAME 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nivag
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 13, 2006 12:02 pm PT
Review:  To be able to fly practically any plane real and imagined (I refer to the many download add-ons 
 here) at practically any airport in the world in practically any weather and do it realistically 
 defines this program. I can only look forward to all future developments of this program which 
 coupled with technical advances in the hardware can only make it even better. Yes we all have our 
 own preferences, but really, if you like flying, this is the program. To go from an all out rookie 
 pilot to a commercial jumbo flyer takes a lot of hours and even then there is always more to learn.
 
  
  Bring on the next version! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flighttester
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 12, 2006 6:12 pm PT
Review:  Microsoft Flight Simulator has always been one of the most realistic Flight SImulation programs 
 available for the PC. It is often called a 'game' but it's no more a 'game' than the real flight 
 simulators are. I know, I've been working with the real thing for over 36 years and I'm both a 
 simulation engineer and a pilot. This is as real as it gets without adding very expensive powered 
 controls and a realistic panes separate from the 'simulated' one on the display. Adding hardware 
 like that is even possible with FS-9 but, it is rather expensive and it really isn't needed to 
 get plenty of value out of this program. It not only has a fairly good (certainly not perfect) 
 flight model (the modeling of the aerodynamics for the specific airframe) but, it plenty good enough 
 to teach the rudiments of aircraft handling, especially learning proper panel scan and instrument 
 flying techniques. Even way back in the Commodore 64 days, the version of Flight Simulator available 
 then (this one is definetly from the same family tree) was good enough for me to teach a (then 
 nine-year-old) friend to understand flight instruments and procedures for him to be able to to 
 take a real Cessna 152 (with me along) on a cross country flight of over 100 miles and find the 
 airport exactly like he did when flying the computer. If you can remember all the 'key-codes' actually 
 performing those same tasks in a real aircraft are a piece of cake. It's been proven good enough 
 that the US Navy used MS Flight Simulator for new cadets to learn proper procedures and scan. If 
 you can get some 'dual' with a real instructor who knows both the aircraft and how to fly MS Flight 
 Sim, you will have an easier time but, it has plenty of built-in training flights so that you can 
 self-teach yourself if you want or need to do that.
  
  This isn't really a 'shoot-em-up' video game. If that's what you are looking for, you better look 
 elsewhere. This one, like all previous MS Flight Sims, is a real tool for learning to fly or just 
 keeping your skills sharp. 
  
  Like flying real aircraft, you can never stop learning. And the program never stops teaching.
 
  
  But, if you want to walk away from your computer having actually learned something, then MS Flight 
 Sim is what you really need. 
  
  If you don't want to take the considerable time needed to learn about flying, leave it on the shelf. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: intoxicado
Rating: 9.9
Date: Feb 4, 2006 11:08 am PT
Review:  If you have no experience in flight simulator, dont try this, is only for Flight sim fans. Its 
 the best of flight simulators, the scenary is the best, you cand find ever city, find all airports, 
 nothing better. if you need info about the planes or technical support only check the data base 
 and you can find all information. Realy this game is the best flight sim. Buy it!!!!! if you need 
 to learn how to fly a cessna or piper or a boeing. You cand made your own flight plans and save 
 it. well i am going to play it!!!, a can stop flying, good look pilots! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Obeva04
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 1, 2006 5:30 pm PT
Review:  Flight simulator 2004 greets you with the most compassionist plane simulator ever. From ILS approaches, 
 to VOR clearences, to go around patterns, to ATC info and ATIS, you know it cannot get any better 
 then this. 
  This game is only for those who have a background on planes, or flying or an interest. There is 
 a in flight shcool that teaches you from flying a Cessna 172 on a winter day to landing ILS frequency 
 111.10 25R approach at Los Angeles in a Beoing 747-400, in a furious storm. The planes are well 
 done, graphics are high tech and landmarks are clearly an out statment. 
  Overall this game deserves a 9.6, for people like me who are brainiacs about aircraft. GET IT!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jamesking1
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 23, 2006 7:38 am PT
Review:  i bought this game last week and and i havent slept for more than 5 hours since. its a superb game 
 that is constantly feeling fresh, mostly because there are more add ons than you can imagine, so 
 many that you will never be bored again!!!!!. the graphics are superb especially the concorde add 
 on. it normally takes me a while to get the hang of games, and was expecting this to be the same, 
 the early planes are difficult but as soon as you get to the modern planes the game takes a new 
 more fantastic turn. i seriously recommend buying this game, and to all flight simulator fans i 
 cannot wait for the new one to come out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Natdadanator
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 16, 2006 10:15 am PT
Review:  you dont need to be a rocket scientist to play this flight simulator all you have to know is how 
 to accelerate and how to move if you start off using the num pad you wont want a joystick if you 
 dont have a joystick to save money but still have good value get a logitech wingman attack 3 joystick 
 the really nice thing about it is you can always check the controls or resart your flight or change 
 your plane there is only one unrealistck thing about it, i dont think your going to get a boeing 
 747-400 blown about by the wind the bad thing about its graphics is the terrain yes they do make 
 chickens the size of streets and houses the size of an estate the fuzzy blur you see on the ground 
 are roads and trees and stuff its like a google earth picture unless its taken by an aeroplane 
 its rubbish if theres one thing you cant do in real life but you can do on this is go out into 
 space in a wright flyer you just increase the time scale whoosh your in space. 
  
  all in all its a great game (apart from your objective is to just fly about pointlessly) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: p232
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 20, 2006 1:07 pm PT
Review:  An exelent game, i was very suprised the first time a tried it. A have tried many other flight 
 game, like x-plane, and i must say that this is the best. You don't yust have the freedom to explore, 
 who is the only thing you can do in x-plane, but you can do "missions" which can be realstic fun. 
 I would say that this is also the most realistic flight simulator game i have ever played. And 
 its a very good way to learn have to control a flight, which is mostly on video, and couldent be 
 much better. Im very supriesed have good that is. So this game i really recommend that you buy 
 it if you like flight simulator games, or just want to learn have to fly. The only thing that is 
 negative about this game, is the graffic. If that was better, it would give all the gameplay and 
 value better charkter. But it's still the best simulator game i have ever played! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lukehu
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 3, 2006 9:18 pm PT
Review:  This is quite a good Flight Simulator! It's got a LOT of kinds of plane u can fly with, including 
 the wright bros plane! Of course, also includes the Boeing 747 and series! You can adjust weather, 
 specific time of day/night, frequency of air traffic, ................ etc. The graphic is.... overall 
 awesome... except, when you are in the air above "cities" , the looks of the "cities" are very disappointing... each 
 "city" looks like they are burnt down... though they are not. Well.... cities are NOT the point of 
 this game... lol. Everything else is........ u can say....... PERFECT! (except the fact that u cannot 
 go check out ur passengers...^^) ALLL controls around you are functional... not just there for decoration! 
 This game is BEST played with a game pad or... even better... JOYSTICK!!! NEVER NEVER EVER play with 
 keyboard... messes things up. when u try to tilt ur plane left or right, u have to press the opposite 
 direction key to stop it from tilting further..... completely messes u up...... gamepad and joysticks 
 don't do that! 
  In conclusion, this game rarely, if ever, leaves out ANYTHING u may think of that should appear 
 in this game!... of course, includes more! A complex game for people with complex mind and interested 
 in flying a plane! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: one-ring
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 18, 2005 7:48 pm PT
Review:  I played this game first in my aviation class at school and I didn't want to leave. This is a great 
 game even for people who just think about flying a plane. For those who have flown planes in a 
 game like Battlefield 1942 or Battlefield 2 or such and you just spin around endlessly or fly around 
 laughing at a fake fuel gauge this is very unlike it. This game is HIGHLY realistic if you set 
 the realism settings to full where slight winds can make you go off course and you can even have 
 the game create some failure on your plane and you'll have to try to land at the nearest airport 
 or make an emergency landing. You'll always half to monitor your instruments to make sure always 
 flying right and to see if there are any problems. You can change to outside views but it's not 
 to great to fly in if your being serious. You can also look around from inside the aircraft. The 
 sounds are very realistic so dont expect some retarded sounding engine. The game itself only comes 
 with a limited amount of planes but the Internet has many different sites where you can download 
 more planes. The graphics are very beautiful but dont expect to find your own house while flying 
 over your area because it doesn't get that detailed. All in all this game can go from very easy 
 to insanely hard in seconds but is still great to play even if you're flying across huge oceans. 
 As a side note, dont buy this game without having a working joystick becaue using a mouse or the 
 keyboard for turning is extremely difficult seeing as how you should only be making gentil inputs 
 to the plane. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AdNihilum
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 14, 2005 12:16 pm PT
Review:  This game shrinks the world for me. A hour of "playing" in the sim leaves me feeling like I have 
 been somewhere.
  
  Learning curve: The Flight Instruction classes are a must if you've never been in a flight sim 
 before. Not only do you have to learn how planes and jets work, but you need to get a feel for 
 the keyboard and joystick. Taking off isn't so hard... but the first time I tried landing at night 
 at O'Hare (one of the standard flights) , I was very nervous and crashed dozens of times. Even after 
 spending dozens of hours flying, I still have a lot to learn. A good joystick is a must; trying 
 to play with the keyboard alone is futile.
  
  Graphics: The standard graphics are fine. The sim is very CPU intensive, though, moreso than other 
 games. I found the scenery and terrain add-on packs offered by various vendors make an enormous 
 improvement.
  
  Aircraft: The sim is stocked with a good selection of aircraft. Noteably missing are the fighter 
 jets. I recommend the Abacus Fighter Jet collection.
  
  Sound: The sounds are okay. On a long transatlantic flight, the drone of the engine gets old, but 
 it's realistic, at least.
  
  Altogether, this sim is excellent. I feel like I'm really flying, and really "visiting" different 
 places. Every year brings better terrain and scenary maps with ever more realism and detail. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dvgeoster
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 10, 2005 11:58 am PT
Review:  Now all though this is the 100 years of flight aviation game people have wanted to be able to take 
 to the skies since we saw birds, just so you know. But Microsoft really has treated this game. 
 now allowing you to have a world map (I flew over a countryside area and it looked exactly the 
 same (well the mountains did and then the wide range of aircraft you are able to fly when you come 
 to landing there is (in the major airports) great detail so thats why I decided to give it top 
 marks for graphics. I also found the tutorials very helpful and the GPS is very good but my favorite 
 part is how there is now "end of the game" to reach but a "let's go fly some where new" and when 
 you have been in all the airplanes and mastered them you can find thousands of new planes to download 
 by typing into a search engine. The Airplanes themselves are very well done nice graphics, rather 
 accurate, and the 360 degree view is helpful for seeing everything. The engine sounds good but 
 if you have a group of people on they make no noise. Now the prices have fallen its much better. 
 All in all and amazing game and a must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bubba_83835
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 1, 2005 2:48 am PT
Review:  I can not think of one thing that I can complain about for this game. Anyone who likes a good simulator 
 will love FS9. The most fascinating thing about it is the ability to actually talk to the tower 
 and request clearance for take off, landing, the possibilities are endless. One of my favorite 
 highlights is the downloads for this game, I have about 10 gigs in my flight sim file all relating 
 to new planes, and better scenery. Microsoft has outdone itself with this game. Its simple, if 
 you enjoy flying, or even want to learn, this game also has an interactive teacher who will train 
 you! Now, log off and go buy this game. You wont regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rsalas8148
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 23, 2005 9:29 am PT
Review:  This is by far my favorite title. If you are a interested in aviation or are a private or commercial 
 pilot, this is the title for you. Flightsim 04 is an amazing tool to learn instrument scanning 
 and aviation. Weather you want to have fun or seriously learn, this program will adapt to your 
 needs. 
  
  The platform is very open, so there are alot of freeware and payware add-ons that enhance this 
 software tenfold. There are also many hardware manufacturers that make add-ons to increase the 
 ease of use and realism of flight.
  
  If you buy this product or already have it, go to www. flightsim. com where you can find an endless 
 supply of add-on scenery, aircraft and utilities.
  
  For serious flyers you can go on-line with VATSIM and have real people give you live air traffic 
 control. Combine that with real aircraft panels from www. precisionmanuals. com, www. wilcopub. com, 
 www. phoenix-simulation. co. uk or www. leveld. com and you are one step closer to being a real world 
 pilot. 
  
  Standing ovation to Microsoft on this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ahmed8520
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 6, 2005 12:01 pm PT
Review:  great game and u will have fun while u playing the game but it hard to learn but when u will learn 
 it u will enjoy it very much also u cant play this game on ur laptop cuz there are a problem when 
 using the num board u know the keyboard of pc is defferent than laptop .. anyway if u have a laptop 
 or pc i recommended u to buy a joystick to have the full pleasure and there are flight creator 
 that can allow u to creat your own plane and do your favorite flights to your favorite cities finally 
 u will own thw world 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gaudreault1978
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 16, 2005 8:49 pm PT
Review:  y'a rien a dire de mal a propos de cd jeu la, c'est de loin le meilleur jeu de simulation qui existe 
 jusqu'a present, faut prendre son temps!! une seule chose, c'est facile de reussir chaque lecon mais 
 le test final est difficile!! sans reussir le test sa veux pas dire que vous etes nul au contraire!! vous 
 en verrez la preuve! bcp d'avions a essayer, c'est assez long de se rendre d'une place a l'autre, mais 
 c'est bien! sa ne prends pas un gros ordinateur pour sa, il's auraient du avoir mis plus de perfection, comme 
 prendre un 3ghz.... sa seraient encore mieux... n'essayez pas avec une manette de jeu ordinaire ce 
 n'est pas fort, essayez avec un joystick et le throttle vous verrez!:) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: captainryan
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 25, 2005 5:38 pm PT
Review:  Gosh, you can't start to appreciate what this game has to offer! What kind of plane do you like? 
 do you like jets, props, doubleprops? Whatever you like this game has it! boeings 747 777 737! The 
 most amazing feature in this game is it has every single airport known to man in every city state 
 country continent hemisphere world YOU GET THE POINT! do you live in a dinky city where the only 
 thing that is close to an airport is a dirt runway? its got those too! I cant even begin to tell 
 you about the scenery! its truely beatifull im crakin up here while im writing this its so beautifull! 
 I love going to the grand canyon! But my personall favorite is NASA it has the launch pads complete 
 with a shuttle on one of them! and yes it even has the assembley building! But what i found most 
 amazing about NASA is when i went there last summer and i could find the dirt road i followed to 
 get to the assembely building amazing! You can even land on the 2 mile long runway!!! But do note 
 that this game takes practice learning about all of the little buttons but ther are plenty tutorials 
 to help you there! And once you get bored of it witch i doubt you ever will you can buy add-on 
 packs! With new planes and scenery and stuff! you can also down load add-ons online! BUY BUY BUY 
 THIS GAME!!!!! why am i typing this? I gonna go play FS right now bye! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kitch88
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 12, 2005 1:11 pm PT
Review:  Wow wow wow is all I can say, it's acurate, fun, easy to play, if new to flying, challenging to 
 play if an experienced pilot. Having flown in real life, and even been solo, FS2004 COF really 
 captures what it is like to be a pilot. Changing weather, active airports and skies, talkative 
 ATC... its like real, but not.
  
  Whats also great is you can download or buy any aircraft / helicopter you want... the web is full 
 of them. www. simviation. com is the best and most user friendly for searching and downloading. So 
 theres no excuse for disagreeing with me ;-)
  
  The downside, no guns, no bombs and due to 9/11 no explosions and realistic crashes... but with 
 a simple download some of the above can be fixed.
  
  Good Work Microsoft, you can make something right! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asyouwish
Rating: 7.7
Date: Sep 19, 2005 4:48 pm PT
Review:  This is the first MS-Flightsimulator I have flown. Thus I am NOT measuring the 2004-version against 
 older versions.
  The great/superb things about MS-Flightsim. 2004:
  When one has started the game, one is greeted with several welcome-videos of a flight-school in 
 the U. S. of A. which explain the basic features of MS-Flightsim. 2004 and REAL flight-lessons 
 follow thereafter! 
  In these flight-lessons one sits in the airplane together with a flight-teacher (just like in driving-school) . 
 The flight-teacher shows and explains, what he wants one to do  not only with text on the screen 
 (text is added additionally) , but with his own voice; which appears as real, that one almost does 
 not notice, that his voice had to be recorded (obviously) , to use it in this flightsim. 
  The flight-teacher will indeed assist in between all the various flight-exercises, which one gives 
 a real feeling of Listen, Watch & Learn.
  {If you use a proper (at best force-feedback) flight-stick, at least proper stereo-speakers (better 
 surround-speakers) , far a part for far greater sound-immersion, than it really feels almost like 
 sitting in the real flight-school-airplane.}
  I have counted 5 learn-chapters in that flight-school, which include seven to eight flight-lessons 
 each, which in turn last all ca. 5  15 minutes. (This gives oneself a great  
 if one has not much time at hand at once; e. g. 15 minutes every day) .
  If you, for example, want to fly factually (like myself) , want to join a Soaring (glide-plane) 
 Club or fly a (factual) motor-air-plane, than you can save yourself loads and loads of money for 
 theoretical AND practical flight-lessons.
  It is still of course a huge difference between a flight-simulator and the factual airplane, when 
 one experiences the sensation of acceleration, accent/descent, roll/pitch, etc. and the knowledge, 
 that doing a mistake could actually cost your and other peoples lives, but one has than already 
 all necessary knowledge and some experience, which saves oneself easily a minimum of several hundred 
 uro.
  MS-Flightsimulator 2004 is as real to factual flying as a flight-simulator at ones own Home-PC 
 can be. The video-graphics can be improved of course further over the coming years, which depends 
 mainly on ones computer hardware-power; where Microsoft has (of course) to draw a line of compromise.
 
  
  The cloud-system, Microsoft has developed for this flightsim., is truly extraordinarily impressive. 
 It ads a true sense of flying below, above or through clouds (not like in older flight-sims. where 
 the clouds were usually just a static image on the sky-plane. {The weather-system can be, by 
 the way, connected to the real weather-forecasts around the globe; but you can read all these information 
 on the info.-page about MS-Flightsim 2004 (A Century of Flight) here at Gamespot, Microsofts website, 
 etc.}
  ALSO: All instruments can be used with point and click, which saves oneself from having to learn 
 tens and tens of keyboard-commands (Although it is certainly useful to assign some of the most-used 
 commands, such as gear up/ -down, flaps up/ -down, etc. to some of your flightstick-buttons.) . 
 The lighting in your cockpit is factually influenced by the natural light-conditions around you, 
 with respective shadow-casts on cockpit-instruments, etc, which is a very nice feature and also 
 ads further to the realism of this flightsim. 
  
  The radio-traffic-control-system plays real voices and one can and needs to learn to use this system 
 appropriately to avoid accidents at airports (during landing/ lift-off) and on the air-streets/ 
 -routes. 
  The multi-player-feature is also truly magnificent, as it ads further to the realism of this flight-sim. 
 Also it encourages oneself to fly particularly well, as the other flight-sim.-pilots will obviously 
 not appreciate it, if one has an accident with them at an airport or in the air {e. g. it not a 
 good idea to taxi on a major run-way (unless instructed to do so by the air-port-watch-tower) , 
 where flight-sim.-pilots start off and land with Airbuses and Boeings  guess what I did yesterday 
 evening?}
  This flight-sim. is practically limitless in its capacity of using ANY airplane, designed to be 
 used with this simulation. There are factually at least hundreds of additional airplanes available, 
 to be used with MS-Flightsim. 2004  even Space Shuttles, if you like.
  One can also add further, more detailed satellite-photographic scenery to this flightsimulator 
 (e. g. from the area where you live) .
  
  The things, which are not so good in this flightsim:
  In the so called Virtual Cockpit View 
 one can NOT pan around with ones mouse, as one is used to do so in other flightsimulators, such 
 is IL2-Sturmovik (Forgotten Battles) , Comanche 4 and others. The only way is by using either the 
 hat-switch on your flightstick or the numeric-pad on your keyboard. Using the hat-switch is awkward, 
 as  evidently - one can move the cockpit-view only at one predefined speed. This is very un-natural, 
 as one does not move ones own head like a robot! Using the keypad on your keyboard just gives one 
 the usual forward-, side-, back-, etc.-view in only 8 directions.
  {One could buy a head-tracker to solve this problem, but that is markedly very pricy.}
  {In Virtual 
 Cockpit View one can also use point and click to press buttons, etc.; the insignias on instrument-buttons 
 are still recognisable, but are, however, somewhat blured.}
  Microsofts programmers managed as well to reduce scrolling of texts in windows within MS-flightsimulator 
 2004 to snail-speed (on an AMD 3000+ machine!) , which is rather unpleasant.
  Further: Twist-handle-flight-sticks range (like my own) is to short and hence creates too much 
 rudder-movement per millimetre of handle-twisting (this is not Microsofts fault) . Thus it is recommendable 
 to buy proper rudder-foot-pedals  if they were only not as expensive as they are ( let 
 me know, if someone sells them to a low price; I live in the UK.) .
  I have seen photos from flight-simulator-pilots, who use two or three monitors with MS-flight-simulator, 
 but I have not found the feature to click-on in MS-flightsim. yet.
  (How does one do it, does anybody know?)
  
  That is it so far from me.
  Perhaps I will add 
 some further experiences with it, when I have finished the flying-school-lessons of MS-Flightsim. 
 2004.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackFlower9
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 7, 2005 2:08 pm PT
Review:  Seit 20 Jahren gibt es den Flight Simulator, damals, 1983, war es der Flight Simulator 1, der mit 
 ganzen zwei Farben ber die Monitore lief. Nun hat der Redmonder Riese seine Palette um eine weitere 
 Version des erfolgreichsten und besten Simulators berhaupt erweitert; um den Flight Simulator 
 2004. Microsoft verspricht eine bessere Grafik und mehr Realismus; wir wollten wissen, ob das stimmt. 
 
  
  
  
  
  Beim Auspacken der CDs hielt ich ganze vier Stck in der Hand. Man kann also schon ahnen, was da 
 auf einen bei der Installation zukommt. Und so war es: 2727MB sollten von meiner Festplatte belegt 
 werden - egal, bei 120GB macht das nicht viel aus. Nach ca. 15 Minuten war alles erfolgreich abgeschlossen 
 und ich konnte das Spiel starten. Was einem sofort auffallen wird ist das ausfhrliche und bersichtliche 
 Hauptmen. Um zu testen, ob Microsoft seinem Namen wieder alle Ehre gemacht hat, nicht auf die 
 Hardwarerecourcen zu achten, habe ich das Einstellungs-Men ausgewhlt. Dort habe ich Auflsung, 
 Farbtiefe, Details und Schwirigkeit verndert. Die neuen Settings lauten: 1024x768, 32bit, Maximale 
 Dateils und realistischer Schwirigkeitsgrad. Nun kann es losgehen. Als aller erstes gilt es, ein 
 Flugzeug auszuwhlen. Da ich groe Maschienen bevorzuge, hab ich eine Boeing 747 ausgewhlt Das 
 nchste, was einzustellen war, war der Startflughafen. Frankfurt am Main sollte dafr gro genug 
 sein. Die Letzten kleinen Sachen waren Wetter, Uhrzeit, Flugroute und Datum. Nachdem dies erledigt 
 war, folgte der Klick auf "Flight Now!". Nach ca. 15 Sekunden Ladezeit erblickte ich das Cockpit 
 dieser 747. Doch ich wollte noch nicht starten, denn ich konnte es mir nicht entgehen lassen, mir 
 erst einmal die Grafik anzusehen und muss sagen, ich habe nicht schlecht gestaunt. Die Huser sehen 
 zwar immer noch klotzig aus, aber die Bume haben schon wesentlich mehr Schnheit und sehen sehr 
 realistisch aus. Das gleiche auch mit Brcken, Bergen, usw.
  
  Endlich kanns losgehen, die Bremsen werden gelst, Klappen werden herausgefahren und der Schub 
 wird erhht. Aber kaum in der Luft fngt es an, das, was bei vielen Simulationen von Microsoft 
 auftritt: Es ruckelt - und wie! Der Framecounter, der nebenher luft ging nur kurzzeitig ber 15 
 Bilder/s, im Cockpit ist das wenigsten noch etwas besser, hier kann man noch gut fliegen. 
  
  Ein Herabsetzen der auf das Maximum gesetzten Details schafft jedoch Abhilfe, nun habe ich 
 endlich 20 Bilder. Nun fiel mir endlich auch auf, wie viel Mhe sich Microsoft's Programmierer 
 gemacht haben, die Wolken sind sehr aufwendig gemacht und sehen beraus echt aus - Kompliment! 
 Nach ca. einer halben Stunde herumtesten ging es an's Landen. Nur wo? Sehr hilfreich ist bei dieser 
 Frage das GPS und ATC-System. Nach der Auswhl eines Flugplatzes konnte es "losgehen". Doch kurz 
 vor der Landebahn, die nicht sonderlich lang war, fiel mir eine sehr negative Sache auf. Nur ein 
 paar Meter vor dem Anfang der Bahn stehen viele Bume und Huser, was bei einem niedrigen Landeanflug 
 dazu frt, dass man entweder in den Sachen hngenbleibt oder sehr spt aufsetzen kann. Dadurch 
 bin ich sehr weit ber die Landbahn hinausgeglitten, bis ich endlich Bodenkontakt hatte - zu spt, 
 das Ende war schon in Reichweite. Obwohl ich alles versuchte, das Flugzeug zu stoppen, raste die 
 Boeing in einen Wald, der hinter dem Flugplatz war. Hierbei kam etwas zum Vorschein, was meine 
 bisher gute Meinung ber das Spiel minderte: Obwohl die Maschiene mit einer hohen Wucht in dieses 
 bewaldete Stck "rein ist", waren am Flugzeug keinerlei Schden zu erkennen. Schlimmer noch, die 
 Simulation wurde gestoppt und der Flug wurde neu gestartet. Beim Extremtest, bei dem ich das Flugzeug 
 aus 1000 Metern auf den Boden strzen lie passierte das gleiche. Die Nase verschwand im Boden, 
 das Spiel wurde gestoppt und dann neu gestartet. Offensichtlich hat das MS wegen den Geschehnissen 
 am 11. September absichtlich so gemacht - schade !
  
  Wem das nichts ausmacht, wir den Flight Simulator schnell als seinen neuen Zeitvertreiber nehmen, 
 denn Langeweile gibt es hier nicht. Ganze 25 fliegbare Flugzeuge, ber 24000 Flughfen, verschiedene 
 Wettersituationen und viele Missionen sorgen fr Abwechslung. Sollte es jedoch mal irgendwann vorkommen, 
 dass man jede einzelne Maschine schon bis zum "Geht nicht mehr" gesteuert hat und sich nach etwas 
 Neuem sehnt, kann man auf einigen Seiten viele weitere Sachen herunterladen. Dies ist kostenlos 
 und setzt lediglich die Standardversion des Simulators voraus. 
  
  Features im berblick: 
  
  =  Learningcenter incl. Flugstunden, welche sehr verstndlich zeigen, 
 wie man erfolgreich ein Flugzeug steuert. 
  =  Newscenter
  =  Geschichtscenter
  =  Multiplayer-Funktion
  =  25 Fliegbare Flugzeuge - u. a. die Boeing 747, Douglas DC-3 und Learjet 
 45. 
  =  ber 24000 auswhlbare Flughfen.
  =  Echtzeitwetter (incl. 15 mintigem Update aus dem Internet!)
  =  ATC und GPS-System 
  
 
  Um die Frage zu klren, was der Simulator wirklich an Hardware braucht, habe ich mit meinen zwei 
 recht neuen Rechner einen Test gemacht, das Ergebnis war erschreckend. Mit meinem normalen Computer 
 (Athlon XP 2200+ @ 2400+, 512MB DDR, GeForce4 Ti 4200, Nforce2) hat es ja schon ziemlich geruckelt, 
 aber bei der zweiten "Kiste" (XP 1500+, 256MB DDR, GeForce4 Ti 4200, KT333) war das Spielen in 
 hheren Auflsungen berhaupt nicht mehr mglich. In den nchsten Tagen steht bei mir eine Systemaufrstung 
 an; ein Barton 2500+ und eine Radeon 9800 sollen mir zeigen, ob Microsoft wirklich will, dass die 
 Spiele nur auf den schnellsten Rechnern flieend laufen - hoffen wir es nicht !
  In der abschlieenden Gesammtwertung kann ich trotz der Sachen, die nicht fr den Flight Simulator 
 sprechen, sagen, dass er eine klare Kaufempfehlung ist. Allein die gute Grafik und die vielen Flugzeuge/Flughfen 
 reichen bei mir als Kaufargument. Besitzern lterer Rechner (bis 2000Mhz, 2000+) , die gerne mit 
 vielen Details und auf hheren Auflsungen spielen wollen, bleibt leider nur das Aufrsten oder 
 Umsteigen auf den Flight Simulator 2002. 
  
  Systemvoraussetzungen:
  Minimum (Quelle: Microsoft) :
  - AMD K6 450Mhz / Intel Pentium 2/3 450Mhz
  - 128MB SD-RAM
 
  - 8MB DirectX 7.0 Grafikkarte
  - ca. 1800MB freier Festplattenspeicher
  
  Empfohlen:
  - AMD Athon XP 2000+ / Intel Pentium 4 2000Mhz
  - 256MB DDR-RAM
  - Nvidia GeForce4 MX / GeForce 
 FX 5200 (Ultra) / ATI Radeon 8500, 9000 (Pro) , 9200 (Pro)
  - ca. 2500MB freier Festplattenspeicher
  
  Optimal:
  - AMD Athlon XP 2400+ / Intel Pentium 
 4 2400Mhz, oder mehr
  - 512MB DDR-RAM, oder mehr
  - Nvidia GeForce 4 Ti/ GeForce FX 5600 (Ultra) , 5800 (Ultra) , 5900 (Ultra) / ATI Radeon 9500 (Pro) , 
 9600 (Pro) , 9700 (Pro) , 9800 (Pro) 
  - ca. 2500MB freier Festplattenspeicher
  
  UPDATE: Ich habe endlich eine gute Methode gefunden, um die Schden beim Flug Simulator zu aktivieren; 
 nhere Infos gibt es hier. Eine weitere Neuerung gab es in meinem Gehuse; die neuen Teile sind 
 eingebaut und ich kann endlich auch ruckelfrei spielen! Die Benchmarks wird es zusammen mit dem 
 Test der Radeon 9800 von Sapphire geben!
  
  Bewertung:
  Endnote: 2
  Kaufempfehlung: JA 
  
  Fazit:
  + Sehr gute Grafik 
  + Viele Flugzeuge/Flughfen
  - Nur 
 fr schnelle Rechner geeignet.
  - Fehlende Flugzeugschden. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Loosenut
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 18, 2004 11:44 pm PT
Review:  I have been a fan of the Flight Simulator series for years now. It was great when 2002 came standard 
 with ATC communication (I had previously bought an add on for the prior series) . I have put my 
 learning curve sort of high because if you fly most of the training lessons it is a couple of hours 
 before Rod lets you solo. I rate this game at a 9.1. The 2002 FS got a 9.3 from Gamespot and I 
 am curious why this version lost .4 points. I drop the score .2 because I do not think that we 
 should have to go to different web sites to get more planes. Yes, I realize that 2004 has many 
 of the historical planes but they have dropped some 'current' planes (Like the V tail Bonanza) . 
 I have rated my value at 10 because it would take a lifetime to fly the world. I am always coming 
 up with new places that I want to check out, and different routes to fly.
  
  This is my first review.
  P4 3.2MHz 1.0GB RAM GeForce 5700 GO with 128MB 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheShelobMan
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 17, 2004 1:21 am PT
Review:  If there is a game that has a greater scope than this one - I haven't heard of it. The fact is 
 that if you have a decent computer you can see the Las Vegas strip from up to 25,000 feet above 
 ground. Even the little details like the erupting volcano at The Mirage. That alone is what sold 
 me on this one. There are of course many other things this game has to offer.
  
  Gameplay: This is a simulation. A lot of sims hve tried passing themselves off as sims, but this 
 one is really a true simulator. Every single one of the 24 aircraft flies differently from the 
 next. In this game you can tell the difference between a 747 and 777. The historical Planes are 
 challenging, but definetly worth the time in trying to learn how to fly them. In fact, that is 
 true for all the planes in the game - modern and historical. "How do I learn?", you ask? Easy: 
 The Learning Center. This is like an encyclopedia for airplanes. It tells you why, how, when, and 
 where it is best to fly each airplane. Plus there is a lot more, like the navigational topics including 
 the ATC and GPS topics. The GPS is a real world GPS, used in real world airplanes. How's that? 
 The Real World weather adds a big challenge to the realistic feel of the game. Overall the Gameplay 
 is awesome, and it should be since this is a sim.
  
  Graphics: I know I spoke about them above, but I feel it should be talked about more. The instance 
 with Las Vegas is not the only one like that. All the big landmarks in the world can be viewed 
 from high above and from upclose even. The detail is amazing, especially if you consider all the 
 structures that had to be designed. The enormous amount of attention to detail is so unbelievable 
 that I have to bow down to the guys at Microsoft. This is a better achievement than the Windows 
 OS. The clouds and weather effects in the game are the best ever seen in a sim. Bad part is, that 
 only the planes and weather actually move. Everything else is at the same place all the time. Overalll 
 the graphics stand out as one of the many puses in the game.
  
  Sound: Every plane has it's own unique sound. Objects other than the plane and ACT don't make any 
 sounds at all. It is understandaable though. The sound is good.
  
  Value: One word: ADD-ONS. That is the thing that still keeps me playing. Airplanes, scenery, and 
 traffic can be added on to make this a totally great experience. Airlines are also easily found 
 all over the place on the internet. Don't worry this game will last until the next version comes 
 out, which is now, less than a year away.
  
  Tilt: This is the type of game that people upgrade their PCs for. It comes out every two years 
 and influences the whole gaming industry. I know that I am buying the next version, but before 
 that I need to upgrade my PC again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AngryFarmer
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 12, 2004 11:24 am PT
Review:  This review is intended for those planning to upgrade from FS2002 to FS2004. The question most 
 of you are probably asking is: should I upgrade? The answer to that question is not as simple as 
 it may seem. The new incarnation of the popular flight simulator series offers, as usual, even 
 more than its predecessors. A new weather system, improved ATC, new historic aircraft, even better 
 scenery and a brand new Garmin GPS are all very well, however after you boot up your first flight 
 and get into the air, you'll start asking yourself: what the hell is this? Did they stick FS2002 
 in the box and just put a new title on it? It is very hard to try and justify what it was that 
 you just spent 40/$50 of your money on. However, if you take your time and examine whats beneath 
 the surface of this SIM, you'll see that there are hundreds of small improvements which you may 
 not see at first, but which you do feel when you actually start flying. If you have nothing against 
 spending 40/$50 on an expansion pack than go ahead and buy it, but many people will find that 
 the improvements are too minor to motivate them on splashing out half a hundred dollars on a game 
 they practically own already. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mulderite2002
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 1, 2003 10:18 am PT
Review:  If youre new to flight simulations and want the best civilian aircraft simulator available, then 
 buy this  it really is that good. If however you have Flight Simulator 2002 and are wondering 
 whether or not to spend your hard earned cash on Microsofts latest release, I would have to say 
 the this version is more of a polish of FS2002 rather than a full blown upgrade. The graphics 
 are certainly a lot crisper and benefit from better textures, and the weather system has been completely 
 overhauled to be more realistic, both in flight and in looks. There is a new selection of legendary 
 prop aircraft added to the list of planes available, though I doubt these aircraft will be used 
 much after their initial novelty has worn off. Since FS2000 this game has really been optimized 
 well  on my Athlon 1.7Ghz PC with a GeForce 4 4400 I can run it with all graphics maxed and still 
 maintain a decent smooth framerate. The key to running these kind of programs well is in the processor 
 speed and the memory, so if youre running anything less than a 1Ghz and 256Mb of RAM it really 
 is worth upgrading to make the most of this simulator.
  
  BOTTOM LINE: If youre a casual flight sim gamer and already own FS2002, save your money until 
 FS2006 undoubtedly gets its release. However, if youre new to the genre or are a hard-core sim 
 enthusiast then you owe it to yourself to get this wonderful piece of software.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Decker12
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 29, 2003 10:10 am PT
Review:  Great addition to the series and I agree with everything in the review. I do wish there was more 
 modern aircraft included - things like the Spirit of St Louis and the Wright Flyer were fun for 
 me for about five minutes, mostly because they were too challenging and when you did get them airborne, 
 not much fun to fly.
  
  My only complaint is the very frustrating flight school. The instructor is very impatient and often 
 cancels the entire training flight if you don't follow his instructions in a very short time frame.. 
 and then you have to start the whole lesson over. 
  
  Many of the lesson techniques are can be difficult to get right the first couple of times. Even 
 though you're trying your best to say, perform a 20 degree turn maintaining 4000 feet, he only 
 gives you a few seconds to get it right before saying "You're obviously distracted so we're ending 
 the lesson now". Makes me want to scream at him to LOOSEN UP AND GIVE ME A CHANCE HERE! 
  
  It gets even more frustrating when you're training on a 747-300 and there's about 100 things going 
 on at once - and you feel you're doing good 15 minutes into the lesson, until you realize you're 
 2 degrees off the heading he wants you to go in, and cancels the entire lesson.
  
  I had to read up on all the ground school items and make up my own training flights to "practice" 
 before heading into 75% of the training lessons! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
