-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Microsoft Combat Flight Simulator: WWII Europe Series
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sim/combatflightsimulator/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov  4, 1998
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 7.2, 2 Review (s)
User Score: 7.8, 293 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Microsoft Game Studios
Genre: WWII Flight Sim
Date:     Sep 30, 1998

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The strongest element of Combat Flight Simulator is the flight experience itself. 

 Sirens wail and ack-ack guns begin to pepper the sky with shrapnel blossoms. The drone of aircraft 
 can be heard on the horizon, approaching in droves to your local retailer. What is it? Another 
 onslaught of F22 sims? No. Thankfully, gamers will once again be able to fly in the glory days 
 of air combat, the Second World War. In the next few months a small squadron of titles will be 
 taking off, with Microsoft's Combat Flight Simulator the first one off the tarmac. It sounds like 
 a perfect match: Pair Microsoft's popular Flight Simulator engine with the thrill of fighting in 
 the skies over Europe in the '40s. After all, Flight Simulator has always been credited for its 
 flight models and attention to detail. Indeed, all the detail gamers come to expect from the series 
 can be found here, whether it's beautifully rendered aircraft, detailed cockpit panels, or real-world 
 terrain. In the end, though, Combat Flight Simulator falls slightly short.   

 Initial impressions are highly favorable. There's a range of playing possibilities, including free 
 flight, quick missions, single missions, campaigns, training missions, and multiplayer dogfighting. 
 You can choose from eight single-engine prop fighters to fly: the Hawker Hurricane, Supermarine 
 Spitfire Marks I and IX, ME 109E and 109G, FW 190A-8, P-47D, and P-51D. Filling the sky are numerous 
 other fighters (including favorites like the ME-262) , bombers, and even buzz bombs. The sky isn't 
 the only target-rich environment, as the surface is also populated with various targets just waiting 
 to explode in attractive-looking fireballs. All the models look good and are easily recognized 
 as accurate. The terrain is just as attractive as the units. It uses the same system as Flight 
 Simulator, tiled bitmaps with major cities built up of several dozen buildings and notable landmarks 
 (such as the Eiffel Tower) . While the terrain looks good and even has elevation in many spots, 
 it does cause a slight loss of frame rate, and let's face it, while in a furball at 10,000 feet 
 the appeal of the ground terrain isn't a factor.   

 The strongest element of Combat Flight Simulator is the flight experience itself. The vast majority 
 of flight sims usually break their flight models down into two modes: easy or realistic. Some include 
 a third mode to fill the middle ground. Combat Flight Simulator handles flying by a series of options 
 that allow you to tailor piloting to whatever skill level is desired. This is fantastic because 
 no other sim is as accessible to such a wide range of user skill. Do you want something quick and 
 easy like US Navy Fighters? It's possible to play with a series of hotkeys to handle most important 
 functions, including the ability to fly from waypoint to waypoint with a touch of a single key. 
 Maybe you want to break out the Snoopy headgear and immerse yourself into what it must have been 
 like to really pilot a P-47. You can have complete control over every aspect of flying. Why bother 
 with hotkeys for the engine controls when you can individually adjust the throttle, prop, and mixture 
 control? And, since everything is optional, you can mix and match. For example, you could use a 
 hotkey to start the engine instead of fooling with all the controls, but instead of instantly heading 
 to the next waypoint, you actually take the time to fly there. Additionally, there are checklists 
 that you can use for pop-up help, taking you step by step through the processes of flying.  

 Of course this is a combat simulator, and there's a wide range of options accompanying players 
 once they get into battle. Standard features such as a padlock view and virtual cockpit (which 
 is a tad rough looking) exist, but it's the nonstandard features that really help out. These include 
 a three-dimensional arrow, which directs you to the enemy, the ability to "lock on" and track a 
 target, and a top-down radar view. Realistic? Not in the least. Of course in reality you can simply 
 crane your neck to see your environment, so these options work well in dealing with the constraints 
 of a flat monitor. And remember, these are optional aspects that don't need to be enabled. So far 
 so good, right? Well, yes. The flight sim part of Combat Flight Simulator is excellent. But it's 
 the combat part that falls a little flat.  

 Quick missions allow you to choose your aircraft, the number and type of enemy, location, and time 
 of day. Strangely there's no option for altitude, which negates the performance of some aircraft 
 (such as the 109, which is a better high-altitude plane) . Single missions are scripted affairs 
 ranging from the plausible (attacking a bomber formation) to the imaginative (wreak havoc in an 
 air show) . The mission types run the gamut from ground attacks to dogfighting to assassination. 
 The biggest problem is that there seem to be no random elements to the missions, and each unfolds 
 the same way every time. The campaigns included in Combat Flight Simulator (the Battle of Britain 
 and the war over the Reich from '43 on) are the weakest point. The problem? The campaign missions 
 are simply themed single missions that keep track of your overall kills. You can abort, crash, 
 or even kamikaze your plane into your own airfield in the beginning of the mission and still continue 
 to the next mission. While no one enjoys playing the same mission over and over to progress, there's 
 no point in calling this a campaign.  

 Fighting is fun, especially in huge air battles with dozens of planes twisting and turning, shells 
 shearing off chunks of metal with each impact, and smoke billowing from ruined engines. The AI 
 is competent, but below 300 feet it tends to slam into the ground quite a bit. Computer-controlled 
 planes fly like they should, obeying the laws of physics. Damage to your plane is handled well 
 and feels right. But with the limited number of missions and the fact there are no real surprises 
 (thankfully they don't have a puzzle feeling to them) a good gamer will complete the lot in a couple 
 of weeks. A mission editor should be released soon, though, that will go a long way toward extending 
 play.  

 But Combat Flight Simulator has a nifty feature that no other combat sim has: the ability to import 
 planes and scenery. When you think about gaming "communities," two immediately come to mind: Quake 
 and Flight Simulator. Quake has become a household name because of the fan support creating endless 
 weapons, maps, and other modifications. Likewise, the Flight Simulator community is huge, with 
 a wide array of new planes, scenery items, and other goodies available on the Net or in your local 
 retailer. Combat Flight Simulator uses the same open architecture, which means that all you need 
 to create your own Luftwaffe is an aviation encyclopedia, Bruce Artwick's Flight Shop for Flight 
 Sim 5, and some free time. Of course scanning the Net for planes is always an option. Importing 
 planes is a snap, taking all of three seconds. The only possible hitch is if the model is significantly 
 altered (such as too many lights) .   

 Without the ability of importing, Combat Flight Simulator would be a rather average flight sim with 
 a lot of potential for the next incarnation. But the wide range of expansion possibilities brings 
 Combat Flight Simulator up a few notches. Of course the support of fans will make or break this 
 title. Without the import community, and if a mission editor is not released, Combat Flight Simulator's 
 scripted missions will grow stale quickly. This is especially true of the campaign system. It seems 
 an anomaly that in an era where most designers are trying to make intelligent dynamic campaigns, 
 the designers of Combat Flight Simulator actually take a backward approach. But there's still a 
 lot to like about Combat Flight Simulator.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (5 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: sharkluver3152
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jan 19, 2006 6:02 pm PT
Review:  This game is very fun but i has some problems. One them is the control sensitivity ( for me) because 
 i put the sensitivity to max yet i still turn slow. Another one isn't major, just the ground seems 
 little blurry. Othere wise this game is great. You have to take down bombers have dog fights against 
 numerous enemies and bomb targets on the ground. Free flight is only for flying around, seeing 
 the scenery and testing out planes. In quick missions, you select what type of enemy plane you 
 want and how many you want, then you fight them. Single campagins are just missions done one by 
 one and campagins are the actual story. This game is good and recommend you buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: terryprior
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 18, 2006 5:39 pm PT
Review:  Microsoft has also called upon real WWII pilots to give them firsthand accounts of combat during 
 WWII and to help keep the flight model realistic. The result is a more accurate feel of combat, 
 right down to the type of smoke that billows from a damaged engine (white for coolant damage, black 
 for engine damage) and the effects of torque during left turns, Of course the support of fans will 
 make or break this title. With out the import community, and if a mission editor is not released, 
 Combat Flight Simulator's scripted missions will grow stale quickly. The flight sim part of Combat 
 Flight Simulator is excellent. But it's the combat part that falls a little flat 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chaos_Man
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 17, 2006 1:09 pm PT
Review:  If you have a joystick (force feedback is a bonus) and this game you will be entertained for many 
 hours. How it works is there is a large battle field in Europe and you are set out to do certain 
 missions that you choose to do. You can decide to go bomb a factory, take out a Nazi recon unit, 
 destroy supply ships. It really is up to you what you want to do. after each battle the front line 
 changes depending on what is going on.
  
  The graphics are pretty good for its age but the dynamic play is what is to be looked forward too.
 
  
  Even at its age this game is worth buying. I own a force feedback joystick and I easily overcame 
 the old-school graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DragonKiller17
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 12, 2006 2:39 pm PT
Review:  And so, when I received this game as a gift, as well as a joystick, I was eager to play my first 
 flight simulator. But once I started playing, there were many things that I enjoyed, and some that 
 I did not like.
  
  For one, I liked the game for the graphics, which weren't great bu good, and I liked the intensity, 
 (sometimes) that the game displayed. Dog fights with extremely advanced com-players can be extremely 
 fun and fast paced. The campaing was quite fun, allowing for some diverse missions, not just dogfights, 
 and the quick combat was quick good too. Although you cannot have wingmen by your side. The quick 
 combat is good for people to go one versus com-players, to see if they can beat them...
  
  What brought the game down was a few glitches that was quite fun to use, but not realistic. During 
 the game if you hold down 3 or 4, (default keys to fire rockets and bombs,) it will fire one after 
 the other and so on, with no limit to your load.
  
  The game did indeed bypass my expectations, but not a groundbreaking game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mort2fire
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 8, 2006 12:28 pm PT
Review:  Go ahead, take a victory roll. Microsoft combat flight simulator is the only product that combines 
 flight simulator realism with air comabt excitement.
  It features the same detailed attention to airplanes physics and instrumentation as the award-winning 
 microsoft flight simulator.
  Experiance the same unsurpassed level of reamlism and freedom of expandability - now combined with 
 computer-contolled wingmen and enemies to recreate the legendary battles of WWII flight pilots.
 
  Enlist with the Royal air force, the Luftwaffle, or the U. S army air force- and prepaire the experience 
 the most realistic air combat simulator ever to take place in the air.
  
  You can insert more airplanes on this game, and create better instraments for the airplanes cockpit.
 
  Though you have to look arounf different websites to find them.
  
  Combat flight sim is one website, which will give you a link to another site, where you can find 
 better planes and other bits to add to this flight simulator.
  
  Great mulitiplayer still today 2006. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
