-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Midnight Club II
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/driving/midnightclub2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul 18, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.2
Critic Score: 8.5, 27 Review (s)
User Score: 7.6, 649 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Rockstar Games
Developer: Rockstar San Diego
Genre: GT / Street Racing
Date:     Jun 30, 2003
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Despite its flaws, Midnight Club II should appeal to fans of arcade-style racing games because it's 
 pretty solid in most respects. 

  While most PC driving games tend favor realistic simulation over arcade-style racing, the PC was 
 also the birthplace of the popular Midtown Madness series, which featured real cars racing wildly 
 through the open streets of real cities. The Midtown Madness series may have gone on to become 
 an Xbox-only franchise, but the developer of the first two games in the series went on to create 
 the similarly themed Midnight Club series, which is making its way to the PC for the first time 
 with Midnight Club II. And while the PC version of the game can be fun on the right setup, it shows 
 its console roots a little more than it should.  

          Midnight Club II brings easy-to-learn arcade-style driving together with a competent eight-player 
 online mode.     

  Like the previous game, which was a PlayStation 2 launch title, Midnight Club II is about giving 
 the player access to a gigantic citylike environment, complete with back alleys, monuments, and 
 plenty of intricate shortcuts. The game's main mode is its career mode. At first, you're set loose 
 in the city in search of adventure. This adventure comes in the form of hookmen, who are racers 
 that patrol certain sections of the city. You challenge these racers by rolling up behind them 
 and hitting your high beams. You then have to stay on their tail until you've proven yourself worthy. 
 Once you've done so, you're thrown into one checkpoint race after another, challenging various 
 hookmen and winning their cars as you defeat them. You start out on the streets of Los Angeles, 
 but you'll eventually move on to Paris and Tokyo. The large cities are extremely cruise-worthy, 
 and it's obvious that a lot of work went into putting the environments together, but you'll want 
 to cruise in the game's arcade mode, as you're almost constantly harassed by annoying radio chatter 
 when cruising around in the game's career mode.  

  Thankfully, the rest of the game's modes are a little quieter, though you can only access cars, 
 races, and cities that you've opened up in the career mode. The arcade mode lets you cruise aimlessly, 
 race a number of laps on a variety of predetermined circuits, replay any of the checkpoint races 
 you've completed in the career mode, and enter eight-player battle races, which let you play in 
 either a standard sort of capture the flag game or a bomb-oriented variant called detonate, where 
 players race to pick up a detonator and drive it to a scoring spot on the map to earn points. The 
 game also has a race editor mode that allows you to place your own checkpoints and configure your 
 own races. These custom races can then be saved and taken online. This is a nice addition, but 
 it would have been nicer if you had been able to truly place your checkpoints anywhere on the map. 
 Instead, you're limited to specific points.  

  The game's online support features a good number of options, but it's a little sparse in spots. 
 Just about anything you can do in the game's arcade mode is available here, though instead of being 
 limited to playing against the game's AI or a second player, you can play against a total of seven 
 other human opponents. The increased number of cars definitely makes modes like capture the flag 
 and detonate much more meaningful. The game also has a number of power-ups that come into play 
 here, such as the ability to inflict reverse steering, slippery handling, and other nasty effects 
 on your opponents. In optimal conditions, the online play is just as smooth as its offline counterpart, 
 but you have to keep an eye on the servers you're connecting to, since the game lags noticeably 
 at slower connection speeds. The front-end options that tie the online game together are a little 
 lacking. A ranking system would have helped make individual races more meaningful, and some sort 
 of wagering system would have helped raise the stakes. The game also locks your car choices once 
 a race or series of races has begun online, which means you'll have to quit and find a new game 
 to change cars.  

          The open-ended nature of Midnight Club II can be both a blessing and a curse.     

 
  Much like in the previous game, the gameplay in Midnight Club II is fast and loose, though a handful 
 of new tricks have been added. When you first start the career mode, you'll be driving a standard 
 car, but eventually you'll unlock various abilities that help you race and maneuver more effectively. 
 You'll be able to control your car in midair, burn out to gain speed off the line, earn nitrous 
 boosts, earn extra turbo boosts by filling a drafting turbo meter, and pop up onto two wheels at 
 will (which can come in handy for squeezing through tight spaces, but is often more trouble than 
 its worth) . The car handling in the game isn't very slippery, and at times the game's skids have 
 an almost mechanical look to them. A quick tap of the hand brake lets you whip around corners extremely 
 easily, and you'll never have to deal with abstract simulation concepts like oversteer or understeer. 
 For the most part, you'll just be keeping the gas pedal mashed and braking occasionally to make 
 some of the sharper turns. The physics in the game are actually pretty crazy. The cars never really 
 feel like they have any weight to them. Sometimes taking a turn too fast will cause your car to 
 roll, and launching off certain ramps will send you through the air for what seems like a mile. 
 In the end, the game feels more like the shortcut-filled insanity of Midway's San Francisco Rush 
 than a game about the exclusive world of underground street racing. While the game can be played 
 with a keyboard and a mouse, an analog controller is really necessary to play the game as it was 
 meant to be played. Steering wheels work pretty well, but an analog joypad -- or a PlayStation 2 
 controller connected via a USB adapter -- is really the best way to play.     

  The open-ended nature of Midnight Club II can be both a blessing and a curse. On one hand, it's 
 impressive to have such a large chunk of road available to you at any given time, and the checkpoints 
 are set up in such a way that there are always at least two or three viable paths through a course. 
 However, this open-ended design also means that you'll usually be going through each race several 
 times just to figure out where you're supposed to go. More often than not, you'll find yourself 
 staring at the radar in the corner of the screen instead of focusing on the actual driving, plotting 
 your course on the fly, and watching the radar arrows of the AI drivers to discover alternate routes 
 that you may not be hip to. The game gives you a Crazy Taxi-like arrow that points in the direction 
 of the next checkpoint, but given the game's numerous, winding paths to victory, this arrow is 
 totally useless. The game also makes use of rubber-band AI to keep races close, so you'll definitely 
 notice that the AI racers are always on your tail when you're doing well and will rarely pull so 
 far ahead that they become untouchable, provided you're taking a viable route to the finish line. 

          The game's online mode features a good number of options, but it's a little sparse in spots. 
     

  Midnight Club II's cars and motorcycles aren't licensed, though you'll notice that some of the 
 cars in the game definitely look similar to some popular makes and models. The only thing you can 
 customize is a car's color. Each car is rated in four areas: speed, acceleration, handling, and 
 number of available turbo boosts. Considering how much of the street racing scene is about car 
 customization and tuning, it would have been nice to have seen some of that here as well. Instead, 
 you're constantly moving from car to car as you unlock bigger and better models, and there's little 
 reason to go back to a previous car unless you're attempting to handicap yourself. While you can 
 pick from a handful of different colors for each model, some custom decal options would have also 
 helped players differentiate themselves online.  

  For the most part, Midnight Club II looks good. The cities are nice and large, with some pretty 
 good texture variety. The car models look OK, though licensed cars would have been a plus. Also, 
 the cars get a little too shiny. On PCs that meet the system requirements, the game usually runs 
 at a smooth frame rate, though it occasionally bogs down when smoke fills the screen or when all 
 the racers are crowded together. A few portions of the game, like the stuttery pedestrian animation, 
 show the game's PlayStation 2 roots. All told, Midnight Club II pulls off its gritty look well. 

  The sound used throughout Midnight Club II is pretty standard. The engine noises, the sound of 
 your tires on different surfaces, and the whooshing explosion of a nitrous boost are all present. 
 Considering how well the soundtrack of Rockstar's last major release -- Grand Theft Auto: Vice City -- complemented 
 the action, Midnight Club II's music is a bit of a letdown. The music is targeted at fitting the 
 style of the cities more than the racing action itself, and it rarely meshes well with the game's 
 high-adrenaline style and gameplay.  

          While it may not be as pretty or control as well as some other racers, the game does a 
 little bit of everything.     

  The other major sound component is the radio chatter from the game's hookmen in the career mode. 
 You'll encounter a wide variety of characters in the game, and they all have a handful of midrace 
 phrases to spit your way. The voice acting itself is just fine -- most of the accents used throughout 
 the game sound passably authentic. But the script given to these voice actors and actresses is 
 a pretty big letdown. Slang that was probably intended to come off as cool simply sounds hokey 
 and stereotypical. The Latino racer calls you "ese," the British racer ends most of his quips with 
 "ya mug," and the Australian racer has a vocabulary that sounds like someone sat down with a VHS 
 copy of  Crocodile Dundee  and a menu from Outback Steakhouse and threw in as much "local" flavor 
 as possible.  

  Midnight Club II's rubber-band AI, annoying voice work, and poorly designed front end all hold 
 the game back. A more robust set of online options and a bit more graphical work really would have 
 helped Midnight Club II stand out. Despite its flaws, the game should appeal to fans of arcade-style 
 racing games because it's pretty solid in most respects.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (14 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: mindburner
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 31, 2007 3:39 am PT
Review:  Very nice game... i already played it twice and i'm considering to install it again... is very good 
 to fill your time and it doesn't dissapoint you... it's a real competitor for the NFS from EA Games... too 
 bad it hasn't got anything special like damage to your cars because in that case it would have 
 been a trully great game but you can't have it all isn't it.
  So, in conclusion you have to play this game without hesitation if you are a street racing games 
 fan because even it's an arcade it has special features that make the game really attractive and 
 make it differ from games like Need for Speed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rezzixcountry
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 28, 2007 4:05 pm PT
Review:  Midnight Club II was a decent racing game. The fun factor seemed to be just there, and the sounds 
 were pretty good, and the music somehow seems to correlate with who your racing against, which 
 makes for a very interactive racing experience. The AI are also pretty good in the game, they manage 
 to keep consistency with themselves and with you. Unless your driving a car thats so much better 
 than theirs. This keeps the challenge in the game up and keeps the gameplay element of the game 
 strong. The graphics could be a bit better in the game. Also, you'll need a steering you, as you 
 don't catch on to the realistic driving experience by toggling with the keys on the keyboard. Overall, 
 Midnight Club 2 is a moderately fun game that will have a strong, consistent gameplay throughout. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slayer_Sam
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 23, 2007 3:35 am PT
Review:  ever met the staff behind Rockstar Games, I would want to reach out, shake their hands, and thank 
 them. You see, they seem to be the only company of late that feels the PC is still a viable platform 
 for releasing games. The fact that their PC games are of better quality than their console counterparts 
 and yet are less expensive than the console games are just a reminder of how good us PC gamers 
 have it. If you took a look at George's original review, not much has changed in the transition 
 from the PlayStation 2 version as far as gameplay goes. You can of course use a steering wheel 
 for this game or a standard gamepad. In addition a mouse / keyboard combo is also supported. Because 
 I was lazy I stuck with my USB force feedback gamepad and as long as you have an analog gamepad, 
 you are good to go. Steering with a digital gamepad is difficult. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryan4u
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 19, 2007 1:21 am PT
Review:  When I heard about Midnight Club 2 I thought it was just another racing game. BUT its more then 
 that! There are tons of great cars and nitro in your hands that you can use to get back in the game 
 after a fatal wipeout. Just let the nitro flow throught the engine and you'll be on your way.. again. With 
 bikes and cars to choose from you can pick the best car for your driving style. This game gets 
 very addicting after you unlock more cars and cities. For the controls though you might want to 
 pick up a steering wheel or controller because the keyboard controls are a bit touchy. If controls 
 are in the wrong spot for you, just change them to something more comfortable. The story is basically 
 find racers and race them for a few races to unlock their cars. Also after some races you unlock 
 things that can help you win more races. But I can't go into to much detail there. The graphics 
 are very good ... if you have a good graphics card! For this game you should have atleast a 32 bit 
 graphics card. But for the best graphics you should have a 128 bit graphics card. The music in the 
 game is actually quite good. It has some rap and some techno which get your blood really pumping. Also 
 you can put your own music in the game just like in mostly all the games that Rockstar Games makes. 
 After you finish the game 100% you can still play in the arcade mode but online is alot more funner. But 
 online can kinda get annoying because of disconnects. Also you make a name that has no meaning. What 
 I mean about this is that you can't save records about how many games you won online. But other 
 than that the replayability is pretty good. You learn new secrets and roads by people telling you 
 online and then you pass down the generation by telling someone else. Also you can search all the 
 cities for glitches and showoff to your friends. Well if you like driving down real roads and pushing 
 the nitro button alot then you'll love this game. It will get your blood pumping and you won't want 
 to quit this great game made by Rockstar. This is one of the many games that Rockstar Games made 
 that was made to be one of the best racing games out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agturboninja
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 13, 2007 11:27 am PT
Review:  Midnight Club II is one of the best racing games of 2003. The free roaming, battle and capture 
 the flag modes are fun. The races are fun for their difficulty, and the physics is crazy. Like 
 jumping over Seine River in Paris and having 10 second hangtime. Later it gets really hard in Paris 
 and Tokyo doing a 4 to 5 minute race and not trying to miss the turn or get hit by a huge swarm 
 of traffic driving on the opposite side of the road goin 200+ mph. The 1st time I beat Midnight 
 Club 2, I had to repeat a race 20+ 30 times to win. The Last race is the most ridculous because 
 it takes 8 minutes. When you drive to one side of LA checkpoint to another. Overall Midnight Club 
 2 is a great game for racing arcade fans, but its challenging. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: linmukai
Rating: 7.2
Date: Dec 5, 2006 8:35 pm PT
Review:  Midnight Club II has a rather juvenile approach but if you can get past that and the rap music 
 while you're driving it's not a bad arcade racer. The graphics are dated but servicable enough. 
 It doesn't look awful but it certainly isn't going to wow you either. The sounds in the game for 
 engines, sirens, tires squealing, etc. aren't bad but aren't great either.
  
  One thing I will say for Midnight Club II is that the control is very good and it is very easy 
 to jump into and have some fun with. I played it using a Logitech Rumblepad 2 controller and it 
 worked very well. For some reason, it wasn't obvious to me that I could choose my controller from 
 the top level options menu but once in the game from options in the pause menu I found the place 
 to select it and life was good from there on in.
  
  If you like arcade style street racing you'll probably enjoy this title and as of this writing, 
 the price is certainly right. I saw it just the other day as a jewel case edition for only 10 bucks. 
 It qualifies as a decent bargain considering that. I think I'd be pretty disappointed though if 
 I had spent 30 or more bucks on this but in fairness, when it was new it probably would have rated 
 better in the visuals department. It's fair to call this a good game but it's lacking in enough 
 areas that it cannot be called a great one.
  
  I didn't find the races particularly hard anywhere but I did become bored before finishing it and 
 after writing this, it's getting uninstalled and ebayed.
  
  I should add the above might sound worse than it really is. It's not a bad game really. It just 
 isn't anything to write home about either is all. For simple arcade racing fun at just 10 bucks 
 I think it's pretty hard to go wrong taking this one for a spin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: filaria
Rating: 6.3
Date: Sep 15, 2006 10:33 am PT
Review:  This game probably is the closest anything comes to burnout revenge on the PC. The gameplay elements 
 are great but there are many missing links which make this game incomplete. Yes.... that's what it 
 is....... incomplete. Probably a combination of midnight club 2 and UG 2 would have made the ultimate 
 car racing game. It offers too may frustrating situations when u would want to beat the crap out 
 of your keyboard. It's frustrating u know when u play a race for 7 mins then happen to take the 
 lead and then lose the race in the next second just to play it all over again and again lose and 
 repeat and....... know what I'm sayin'. The race tracks are very good but yes THE CARS SUCK I REPEAT 
 THE CARS SUCK ALONG WITH THEIR STUPID ACCELARATION! Could've been much better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MartyVice30
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 4, 2006 9:57 am PT
Review:  Personally I had alot of fun playing this game. But that may be because I like a challenging game. 
 I'll warn you now this is an EXTREMELY difficult game, probably the hardest game to pass I've ever 
 played. But thats wat makes it fun and makes it last. You might spend 1-2 hours trying to pass 
 a race! But not all the races are like that just a few.
  
  You can race in three different cities, Los Angeles, Paris, and Tokyo. The sense of speed in this 
 game is great. Flying down the streets of Tokyo at 240 mph in heavy traffic will get your adrenaline 
 going. Also the best past of the game is the cities. They are phenomenal thay have so many intricate 
 streets and shortcuts and many different ways to get to the next checkpoint that you have to try 
 to find the fastest route, which also makes it easier to screw up. There are tons of high flying 
 jumps, you can race underground in the catacombs, you can race on the street in the dense traffic, 
 and Tokyo has the overhead traintracks which you can race on. The cities are just so well designed 
 there are short cuts everywhere. The new generation racing games of 2006 don't have nearly as good 
 of a racing enviroment as 
  Midnight Club II.
  
  The different challengeres you can race all have verry different personalities and really brings 
 you into the game.\
  
  Gameplay: Very fun and exciting racing in the great cities. Can get extremely hard and somepeople 
 might get "stuck".
  
  Graphics: Graphics are alright not near what the new games are like.
  
  Sound: Racing sounds 
 are not that great and the Nitrous sound was sort of cheesy.
  
  Value: Good value because the game is pretty cheap right now. Game will last a while because of 
 the difficulty. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sam3d
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 23, 2005 9:47 am PT
Review:  A highly addictive street racing game, specially the "Battle for Flag" section in which a player 
 single or as part of a team has to get the flag from one corner of the city to a deposit point. 
 Player can choose from various cities like Los Angeles, Paris, and Tokyo. Although the game scores 
 low in the graphics department. It manages to score some brownie points in overall fun and enjoyable 
 game experience. Sound tracks provided with the game are also good. Finally, if you are ready to 
 spend hours and hours of fun racing through the streets of LA, go buy the game :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Avenger556
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 11, 2007 2:08 am PT
Review:  Well, I bought this game few years ago, it was my mistake. I really wanted to test my steering 
 wheel in this arcade, it was the first "street-racing" game for me. It disappointed me with bad 
 controls, its impossible to make a normal steer with a keyboard, wheel helped me little bit, but 
 that wasnt enough. There are quite many cars but developers had problems with the license, so you 
 may play with vehicles similar to Saleen's, Renault's, Porsche's but with another names. You can 
 travel in such cities like Tokyo, Paris and so on. Few game modes are available too, quite interesting 
 to play in the multiplayer. But the player shouldn't forget that this game is a true arcade: impossible 
 speed, jumps. As for me it was boring, so i stoped playing in the middle of the game, then just 
 typed a cheatcode for all cars and tracks, checked what was awaiting for me in the end and deleted 
 the game from my hard disk. I dont like such games without any physics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshaskins
Rating: 7.9
Date: Mar 22, 2005 4:51 am PT
Review:  Alien races have been bitterly fighting for supremacy of their universe. An Alliance has formed 
 between the lowly Lokob, the physically imposing Rag'ha and the technologically advanced Y'dray, 
 in an attempt to stem the onslaught of the menacing Unath. The Unath are said to have invaded this 
 star system in a quest to maintain supplies of a chemical which is the basis for their technology 
 and is found in the bodies of all of the Alliance races. Needless to say, you don't want to be 
 taken prisoner! So the Lokob put up with their second-class citizenship because victory over the 
 Unath only seems possible with the help of the Y-dray and their knowledge. The player is a Lokob 
 officer who holds the exalted title of "Commander of Armies" and is in charge of his race's contingent.
 
  
  I of the Enemy comes to us from Enemy Technology, an independent developer. The game is very simple 
 to get accustomed to and focuses mainly on the strategy part of the RTS genre. Forget building 
 power plants and houses, you only need to worry about 1 building. The game strips away all of the 
 bloat from many RTS games and relies strictly on the players brain to use the right type of units 
 and how to group them.
  
  Graphics:
  
  On the surface, the game looks like an old school RTS game. The graphics arent the best but for 
 this genre its all about gameplay. The game plays in a classic isomorphic view that weve seen 
 many times before. The units are your generic sprites, maps are somewhat the same, and the animations 
 are decent at best.
  
  The games strongest point is obviously not that of the graphics. The visual styles work fine for 
 the game but they could be better. They're laced with that old school flavor and bring back a lot 
 of memories from times past. I really like the graphics for what they portray and I feel a lot 
 of gamers that played Dune 2 and other early 90s titles will have a fond appreciation of the graphic 
 engine.
  
  The units themselves arent anything special to look at. Given the graphics engine, there isnt 
 a whole lot of detail to be seen, but the units move around and animate as one would expect. They 
 look the part and there are a few different kinds. You have ground units as well as air units. 
 The air units can fly around and uncover the Fog of War and help you complete the objective. The 
 enemies look similar to your own units in most cases, but they also have some unique designs for 
 themselves. Fortunately, It is easy to distinguish between friend and foe due to the coloring scheme 
 on the units themselves.
  
  The maps usually contain you and some enemies on 3 different planets. There are obstacles in the 
 way that you must navigate in order to reach the enemy base or the various other targets, but the 
 overall feeling of the maps is that they are bland at best. They generally consist of generic rock 
 formations, and a few scattered trees, but little in between. We all loved Warcraft 1, but let's 
 face it, that was 10 years ago. 
  
  Graphically the game is fine, and shouldn't be over-analyzed. It could be better but coming from 
 an independent developer it is a step in the right direction. With a crew of only 2 programmers, 
 they did a bang up job and really created a solid retro engine.
  
  Audio:
  
  The audio in the game is a mixed bag. Being an independent developer, there isn't much room in 
 the budget for high class voice talent. Im not saying the voice acting is bad, its a lot better 
 than many other games out there, but it leaves something to be desired.
  Each mission you get a small briefing which helps push the story line along. You talk to various 
 characters throughout the game and learn the politics of the different races. If you arent a dialog 
 driven person, you can skip all of this by just clicking Start Mission.
  
  When I first played the game I noticed the main characters voice sounded familiar. Upon further 
 investigation he is the same voice that had played the Baron of Harkonnen in Dune, my favorite 
 game of all time. He hasnt lost his touch and definitely adds some old school flavor to this game. 
 His voice acting skills rise above any other talent used in the game, and adds a very welcome addition 
 to the story.
  
  In the missions and throughout the game there is a music track that plays in the background. The 
 music is pretty good but very repetitive and with missions that could last up to an hour it can 
 get old quickly. Thankfully, the gameplay is involved enough to allow your mind to ignore the music 
 and sounds, and focus on the objective at hand.
  
  The major downside to the overall audio is the voice acting in the actual missions. Your main character 
 constantly says, Yes sir, On my way sir and the likes. This is extremely annoying and a lot 
 of games have this little annoyance. It is possible to drown it out with gameplay but since you 
 are always moving your units around you will always hear it. Other units really dont say much 
 at all, I dont know if thats a good thing or a bad thing. It would have been nice to have the 
 main character only speak at certain intervals or every 5th move; something other than every move 
 would have been better.
  
  The sound effects are there but can be bland at times. The weapons and explosion sounds are all 
 good but sound a bit empty and have no real feeling to them. When in battle, the effects lack the 
 feeling of being immersed into battle, but are always on cue. 
  
  Whats funny about the audio section in this game is its a lot better than other major titles. 
 Its sad that a new company with little to no money can create such great dialog and decent sound 
 effects when major companies with millions upon millions behind them just dont try.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  This is what sets the game apart from the rest. As I said earlier it strips away 
 most of the bloat that make up a lot of recent RTS games. Instead of giving the player the ability 
 to build tons of structures and do tons of research the game only gives you one important structure, 
 the Starport.
  
  This is the structure that you request new units from. You dont get an unlimited supply so strategy 
 is a key ingredient in the game. Also the units take a little time to arrive and you can only order 
 6 or so at a given time. Utilizing this structure is a major factor in winning a game. Simply gathering 
 units and doing a rush will get you no where. You need to know what works against what type of 
 unit. Some ground units cannot shoot air units and will be completely useless if you try to do 
 so. There are a lot of combinations at hand and it is up to you, the player, decide what needs 
 to be done.
  
  As aforementioned, each mission brings a dialog up that allows you to listen in on what is to come. 
 It also moves the story along and brings in new people for you to meet and greet. The story is 
 pretty good and the game does a great job in telling it. After each mission you sometimes see a 
 cut scene that isnt the greatest piece of artwork but definitely suits the game well. It would 
 be odd to see a beautiful cutscene rendered with a bajillion polygons and then play a game and 
 see what you really get. The cutscenes show you exactly what you see in the game, but in better 
 detail. There are really only 3 major cut scenes and you should watch them all if you want to understand 
 whats going on.
  
  The missions range from easy to difficult and do get harder as the game progresses. Some missions 
 have timers and others dont. It is important to pay attention to the mission briefing or else 
 you will lose in a matter of minutes, especially on timed levels. I was amazed at the amount of 
 diversity in the missions, and the strategy needed to accomplish what was needed to be done. It 
 is obvious that the developers put a great deal of thought into the game, and have paid important 
 attention to creating a visceral experience.
  
  When you play the missions your units gain experience. They have 4 phases they go through: Green, 
 Veteran, Crack, and Elite. When your units gain experience they gain morale, toughness, visibility, 
 and can be brought back in future missions. After completing a mission and before you start your 
 next, you have the option of bringing in some experienced units to help you. Keeping your better 
 units alive throughout the game is key, and can help you out big time in the end of the game.
 
  
  The objective in the game is to build up a small army of units and defeat the enemy, nothing new. 
 How you do this is up to you and that is what makes this game great. There are no resources to 
 gather and no real micromanagement aside from taking care of the units. Your units along with the 
 enemy units get a small shield that helps them take a few hits before taking real damage. Some 
 units damage the shield better than health and others barely do any damage at all.
  
  As you get further into the game you get new units to use and they do come in handy as they can 
 do more damage and possibly attack air units. As stated before these arent unlimited and once 
 you run out thats it. The game does demand a bit of thought and you cannot just build up an army 
 of the biggest units and go wander off. There really isnt any single unit that is better than 
 the rest because they all do different things.
  
  There is a multiplayer aspect to the game but there was no one online and I had no way of play 
 testing this. According to the website you can create a game with up to 8 other players and battle 
 it out. With the included map editor it could be a lot of fun to go online and challenge people 
 on your own custom made maps.
  
  Overall the game is fun and requires a bit of thought. In an age where RTS games have been dumbed 
 down for the common user, it's good to see that people understand that real gamers love a challenge. 
 It is challenging and fans of the genre will appreciate that. The story in the game is solid and 
 it is a welcome change of pace from other RTS games requiring you to build and destroy, with nothing 
 in between. I of the Enemy focuses on story, making this RTS play like an RPG.
  
  Conclusion:
  
  For an independent game this is a definite winner. It could be better, but it 
 offers an old familiarity with a new twist. Hopefully Enemy Technology will learn from their minor 
 mistakes and will continue to create even better games in the future. Its always nice to see what 
 the independent gaming community is up to because they usually offer something fresh. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Epicsoldier
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 7, 2004 12:08 am PT
Review:  Even though it may not look as good as some other racing games it certainly does a good job in 
 every other part of car racing games, it's so fun just to drive around and to hit other people. 
 At first, i figured that this might be a souped up midtown madness on drugs, but it is nothing 
 like that. The graphics aren't as bad as they look, there is some parts that shows that it looks 
 awesome, and the free city roam part of this game owns everything!!, the story is good and the 
 sound is done really really good. The multiplayer adds to the fun, you can do the free city roam 
 even online, and just crash into people. The only con to this game is that the cars aren't propertly 
 named (not lisenced) which kinda sucks, but it still is awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fett35
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 12, 2003 10:41 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  
  The game genuinely is addictive and a lot of fun to play. Midnight Club 2 features open-ended tracks 
 through three cities. The cars respond well to control inputs and do not feel mushy as in other 
 games, notably Need For Speed, Hot Pursuit 2. The races tend to be well balancedchallenging, but 
 without being frustrating (even though some are a touch easy.) The open-ended tracks allow multiple 
 options during one race: the only goal is to hit all the checkpoints and make it to the finish 
 line. Any way that can be accomplisheddriving on the streets, the wrong way down the expressway, 
 making a jump off the top of a parking garage, or taking shortcuts through the plate glass of a 
 store frontis encouraged. Over-the-top arcade controlshandbrakes, special moves, and a nitrous 
 oxide boost that launches your car like a rocketcontribute to the overall fun atmosphere of the 
 game.
  
  Using a steering wheel with the game increases the gameplay further. For under fifty bucks you 
 can get a USB wheel (force feeback for less than 100) and pedals. This game reacts very well with 
 the wheel and the cars steer as they should. 
  
  One downside is that the speedometer seems to be miscalibrated to ones apparent speed. When the 
 speedometer says 65 the scenery crawls by as if youre doing 25. Since youre rarely doing less 
 than 100, its not a problem, but it gives you an odd feeling none the less.
  
  Graphics:
  
  This is possibly the weakest area of the game. Since the racing takes place at 
 night, the textures are primarily shades of grey. The cars look serviceable, but unremarkable. 
 A nice aspect of the graphics is that there is very little, if any, pop-up. The scenery is always 
 fluid and visible. You wont run into any traffic or buildings that come out of nowhere, as sometimes 
 would happen in GTA3. All things being equal, I prefer this environment, where the graphics are 
 a notch lower in quality, but very fluid and instantaneously rendered. 
  
  However, the smoothness doesnt carry over to the cutscenes, which play choppy. Thankfully, these 
 can be skipped.
  
  Sound:
  
  Well done. The engine sounds blend nicely with the environment, and the ability to play your own 
 MP3s within the game while driving is a big plus. 
  
  Value:
  
  In a world where every new game is $50, this one comes in at $40, so it is reasonable. It is much 
 more fun than a lot of the other driving games out there. If you are lucky enough to have a wheel, 
 this will stay on your hard drive for quite a while.
  
  Reviewers Tilt:
  
  The bad:
  Some stability issues. The game occasionally crashes to the desktop (originally, every time I cranked 
 the resolution up above 640x480, but a new Geforce driver from nVidia cleared that up) . The control 
 scheme set up to navigate the menus feels ported directly off of a console, making it counter-intuitive 
 to navigate on the PC. The ability to change to a manual transmission is buried in the menus and 
 can take some time to find. Remapping controls likewise is counter-intuitive. The sound, even when 
 turned up to 10 plays at a low level. The installation crashed twice at the very end; savvy users 
 can create their own menu items and/or desktop shortcuts; otherwise, this could be frustrating.
 
  
  The good:
  Just plain fun to play. The cities arent that detailed, but Im driving, not sightseeing. The 
 textures dont seem to repeat (unlike in Midtown Madness, where every block seemed to be a copy 
 of the previous) . The races are varied enough to be fun without being repetitive. The controls, 
 either the keyboard or the wheel, are crisp and respond as they should (unlike NFS: HP2) . The cops, 
 when present, offer a challenge but arent ridiculously overwhelming (also unlike NFS: HP2) . 
  
  A fun game. Not an instant classic (it wont make you sit up and say wow) , and not the most 
 polished gem on the shelves (choppy FMV; install, stability issues) , but a heckuva lot of fun for 
 $40.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xyre
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 8, 2003 9:59 am PT
Review:  I was very excited about Midnight Club 2 when it was first annonced, the screenshots looked incredible, 
 and the previews intrigued me. I first played the game a couple days ago, and wasn't as impressed 
 as I had hoped I'd be. The graphics are really great, but the gameplay is rather slow and kind 
 of boring (at least in the career mode) . Basically what you do, is you drive around looking for 
 racers to challenge and ultimatly win their cars, thats about it. You can do stuff like nos, but 
 don't expect to upgrade, what you get is what you get. I wish you could add you own music though, 
 because I personally like to drive to techno, not rap, so I usually turn the music off and run 
 winamp in the background. Overall, the game is alright, but it definitly could have been improved 
 upon. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
