-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Midnight Nowhere
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/midnightnowhere/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr  1, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.3
Critic Score: 5.2, 20 Review (s)
User Score: 6.5, 85 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Tri Synergy
Developer: Saturn+
Genre: Horror Action Adventure
Date:     Mar 29, 2004
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The early promise of this Russian-designed horror adventure game feels like it literally got lost 
 in translation. 

  As the gaming industry becomes more global, we're beginning to see a large number of games coming 
 from Europe and Russia. Midnight Nowhere is one of these games, and it's an attempt to build a 
 spooky horror adventure about serial killers. Unfortunately, it's also a game that you can't help 
 but feel got lost in translation.  

          The maintenance room has a lot of useful tools, if you can find them.     

  The game 
 is set in the near future, in the fictional Russian city of Black Lake. An unstoppable serial killer 
 has murdered hundreds, and the government is powerless to stop him. The game gets off to a great 
 start, with your character, Sergey, waking up in a body bag in an eerie, deserted morgue. But that 
 early promise is wasted in no time by Sergey's outlandish tone. Rather than being creeped out or 
 terrified -- or even vaguely disturbed -- Sergey cracks jokes and ogles the breasts of a dead woman 
 as if waking up in a body bag surrounded by corpses were old hat for him. Sadly, it's almost all 
 downhill from there. As he encounters more and more bodies, his tone almost becomes even more jovial. 
 Sergey cracks one-liners much like Arnold Schwarzenegger does whenever he dispatches a villain 
 in one of his movies.  

  We get the feeling that the dialogue was a lot more effective in the developer's native Russian. 
 Something, however, was definitely lost in the translation to English. For instance, many of Sergey's 
 one-liners come off as bizarre or weird instead of funny. When he encounters a gigantic ventilation 
 van, he utters, "The fact that the fan's stubborn, I can see that." And when asked to open a cabinet, 
 he says, "Am I going to have to remember the Pythagorean theorem to open it?" It's as if the translators 
 were trying to turn a familiar Russian expression into English. There are other moments when the 
 translation clearly stumbles; the cardiology room (complete with a sign that says "cardiology") 
 is constantly referred to as the "reanimation room" by Sergey, which just adds needless confusion. 

  Midnight Nowhere uses the traditional point-and-click gameplay featured in most adventure games. 
 When Sergey enters a location, you mouse over objects to see if he can interact with them in any 
 way. Done correctly, it's an effortless gameplay mechanic. However, in the case of Midnight Nowhere, 
 it becomes a maddening pixel hunt as you carefully mouse over every square inch of the screen. 
 It's far too easy to miss a critical clue or object, especially in the many dimly lit locales of 
 the game. And even when you do mouse over the correct item, it can be a bit maddening trying to 
 figure out what to do. We checked the pockets of a coat and retrieved an item, but we were still 
 stymied. It turns out we had to check the pocket  multiple times  in order to get the critical 
 object that we needed.  

  Many of the early puzzles are fairly logical and well thought out. You'll have to retrieve batteries 
 from a flashlight, so you need to figure out what pieces of equipment you can cannibalize. Or a 
 thumb scanner requires a specific thumbprint, so you have to perform impromptu "surgery" on a corpse. 
 The later puzzles, on the other hand, cause a fair bit of frustration because they make little 
 sense. At one point, you need to find seven player cards in a jail cell, and most of them are in 
 the most unlikely and illogical of places. And there are moments when you'll retrieve a clue but 
 won't be able to analyze it correctly because the translation is so bizarre. For some reason, we 
 got the key code to an electronic lock just by examining the nude body of a young woman.  

  Midnight Nowhere does try to present an interesting and original story. Just when it appears that 
 the plot is headed down the traditional supernatural path, like something out of Call of Cthulhu, 
 it switches gears and does something unexpected. There's also a definite twisted sense of humor 
 in the game, including wryly written public service announcements and bizarrely fascinating magazines 
 that you can flip through. The game itself uses a combination of 3D-rendered characters and prerendered 
 environments to strong effect, and some of the imagery in the game is creepy and disturbing. But 
 if you're offended by profanity or nudity, you'll probably want to steer clear, because there are 
 plenty of both throughout the game. There are also strong sexual themes that, while not graphic, 
 you'll probably not want kids to see.  

          You can make this corpse dance by using electrical surges.     

  While it ran fairly 
 stable most of the time, the game does suffer from a killer bug that can wipe out all your progress; 
 you'll effectively hit a dead end because the trigger for the next event won't trip. So you need 
 to make sure to use multiple saves to back up your progress. In the end, Midnight Nowhere is a 
 competent adventure game that squanders a lot of potential. The pity is that you get the feeling 
 the game would be a lot more effective if the main character had a drier, more morbid sense of 
 humor. As it is, the attempts to crack weird jokes takes away from the otherwise eerie atmosphere 
 of the game.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (3 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: furryfuzzybunny
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 1, 2008 8:36 pm PT
Review:  Actually, after playing the hell out of this dirge for the better half of a 48 hour period, I am 
 now a certified puzzle solver. I am also considerably less sensitized to graphic depictions of 
 corpses, sexually salacious displays of women, and take no prisoners grit spit language. Perhaps 
 I have just become a smidgen more Russian than I started out as........ which is admittedly none 
 at all.
  
  A mystery man wakes in a hospital to what appears to be a nightmare scenario. Dead bodies litter 
 the floor, blood spatters the walls, all the sexy uniformed nurses are cold, and there is no breathing 
 peanut galary to titter at his surly jibes at the inanity. But wouldn't we all want to compensate 
 for the fear by lightening the mood? I rather suspect.
  
  We are granted a "news at eleven" film reel style intro which hints at a mass murderer loose, a 
 town center quarantined via police blockade, a panicky pandemonium, and a void swollen with the 
 stench of evil. You are made to know that it is your job to endeavor to sew the pieces of a shadowy 
 garment together. In other words, you must drag this mystery horror out into the light.
  
  This game really belly punched me with it's dry, acerbic wit, delivered with a smirk, out the side 
 of the mouth of the main character. The comments as he roams the empty hospital hallways and later, 
 tomb like, police station, are of the variety one might expect from a man who spends his workday 
 cleaning toilets. As tickled as I was, I was somewhat appalled at the profoundly tasteless mindset 
 the developers displayed in their flippant disrespect toward women. Babes, sluts, broads, **** 
 and so on, were the choice words our mystery man applied to the female characters he happened upon. 
 I suppose it's hard to keep the brow high, given the murk and dreck he is forced to slog through. 
 Admittedly, his attitude is consistent with his enviroment.
  
  The mechanics of the game involve the adventure standards of key fetching, code retrieval, picture 
 scrutiny, riddle soluting, and last but not least, contraption combining. Nothing new here on this 
 score, though I must warn a player to be especially persistent and thorough in all actions. This 
 game requires a lot of attention to detail and trial and error as a matter of course. Don't put 
 on your dancing shoes and be too quick to reach for the waltzthrough, the puzzles are all very 
 logical and the solutions make sense. Now if the developers had only paid a little more attention 
 to the syntax of the various written words scattered around the game, I would have almost nada 
 to gripe at.
  
  I loved the graphic details and have a particular fondness for a futuristic game that knows how 
 to incorporate neon glow and shadows. I twisted my nose out of joint trying to make sense of all 
 the photos of men with cartoonishly big noses (this one is drip drop with surreal elements) . I 
 winced and cursed, then thanked myself for having the good sense to save every couple of moves...... (this 
 game is blackout screen, crash prone) . I dazzled at the artistry of the standout, passive scene 
 of the man suspended, crucifixion style, and bathed in the background glow of the hospital corridor. 
 Finally, the 3D wristwatch menu screen was a subtile but welcome creative touch. This is a game 
 that took some brains to create.
  
  The game begins with a claustrophobic feel and sees the protaganist digging his way to the surface 
 of this mystery. In the end he emerges into the light, figuratively, but literally too as we all 
 share in the answer to his questions. The final cut scene animation is truly a jerked awake with 
 a start, eyes snapping open, mouth breathing hard, kind of moment.................... that is the 
 way a suspenseful adventure should rightfully end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 5UPERMARIO
Rating: 4.9
Date: Dec 11, 2006 7:46 am PT
Review:  Very basic point and click adventure here. Nothing actually Happens . There are no fun action sequences 
 or anything else actually truly interesting in this game. The storyline is somewhat interesting 
 but not told or developed well at all due to translation issues.
  
  - Puzzles are insanely difficult, need a walkthrough
  - Game is very short
  - Translation problems
 
  
  + Funny sense of humor throughout some parts
  + Graphics are not bad, sometimes give off the Creepy feel
  
  Overall there is not much to 
 say about this game. All you do is walk around a very small environment for a few hours, solve 
 some REALLY hard puzzles, witness some dead bodies, see some funny pictures, then its over. Nothing 
 in this game we haven't seen done better before. This game can totally be described in one word. 
 DULL. The market definately needs more games in this genre, but we need the developers to seriously 
 upscale the quality. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woef
Rating: 5.7
Date: Nov 7, 2006 11:17 am PT
Review:  Midnight nowhere is a good looking and mysterious game.
  The puzzles in Midnight nowhere are very hard and it WILL take you a good amount of time before 
 you finish one.
  
  Gameplay:
  The gameplay of Midnight nowhere is a bit mediocre, there are a lot of puzzles but these puzzles 
 are so hard that you probaly dont want to do them.
  The atmosphere of the game is very good, because there are some spooky area's.
  +Good atmosphere
 
  +Easy to use controls
  +SOME nice puzzles
  -Most of the puzzles are very hard
  -Very bad translations
  
  Graphics:
  + (Again) good atmosphere
  +The game looks good
  
 +The game runs smooth but there are some major problems, like crashes.
  
  Sounds:
  +Music is very mysterious and spooky
  -Translations literally suck
  
  Value:
  =You probaly 
 dont want to replay this game, because the puzzles are so hard and very time consuming.
  
  Tilt:
  +There is a story, if youre able to understand it.
  -again the puzzles suck
  -Translations 
 suck
  
  Adios amigos, this was my review for MN, cya all 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
