-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Midtown Madness 2
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/driving/midtownmadness2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 25, 2000
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.1
Critic Score: 7.9, 38 Review (s)
User Score: 8.2, 739 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Microsoft Game Studios
Developer: Rockstar San Diego
Genre: Mission-based Driving
Date:     Sep 21, 2000
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
If you want to play a very fun racing game, then Midtown Madness 2 is for you. 

 There are few sure things in life, but one of them is that if Microsoft puts out a racing game with 
 "Madness" in the title, you might as well grab it as soon as it hits store shelves. Midtown Madness 
 2 is no exception to this rule. It doesn't matter whether you're a hard-core simulation fan or 
 you simply crave speed, destruction, and mayhem in your games - if you want to play a very fun 
 racing game, then Midtown Madness 2 is for you.   

  But that's not to say that Midtown Madness 2 is ideal. In fact, it seems as though it could have 
 used a couple more weeks in testing. On several occasions the game completely locked up on a fairly 
 standard system (Celeron 450MHz, 256MB RAM, TNT2 video card with the latest drivers) , and only 
 through uninstalling and reinstalling did the problem finally seem to go away. As in some other 
 racing games, the brakes don't truly function as real-life brakes when both pedals are configured 
 to use the y-axis: Slamming on the pedal doesn't lock the wheels but merely decelerates your car 
 more quickly. An attempt to correct this by configuring the pedals to use two axes revealed a bug 
 - the brakes worked in reverse, forcing you to keep the pedal down for no brakes and releasing 
 it to stop. Your only true braking option is the hand brake, which tends to cause unpredictable 
 slides when all you really want to do is slow down in a hurry. Also, at the beginning of one race, 
 my car was positioned facing in the opposite direction of the other cars, and stepping on the gas 
 sent me hurtling backward along with them even though I was in first gear. Fortunately, none of 
 these problems were persistent or detrimental to how enjoyable the game turns out to be.   

  You can actually work your way around most of these issues, and in fact you might never experience 
 a game crash yourself. But there's no getting past the game's rather pathetic engine noises. When 
 you see a '68 Mustang Fastback tearing through downtown San Francisco, you want to hear a mighty 
 rumbling sound that'll make bystanders think the big earthquake's finally happening. Instead, the 
 cars in Midtown Madness 2 give off a little purr that barely changes in tone even when you're redlining 
 the tachometer. Even in an arcade-style racing game such as this, it's good to be able to hear 
 when you should change gears, rather than constantly have to check the tachometer.   

  The occasional bugs and the weak sound effects are the only low points in Midtown Madness 2, because 
 otherwise, the game is a blast. Midtown Madness players who've grown used to screaming through 
 Chicago will be happy to find two new venues featured in the sequel: San Francisco and London. 
 As in the original game, both cities have been meticulously modeled to include many notable landscapes. 
 In San Fran, you'll see Coit Tower, the Palace of Fine Arts, and of course the Golden Gate Bridge; 
 in London, you can tool around Trafalgar Square and even ram through the gates of Buckingham Palace 
 and do a few donuts on the well-manicured lawn.   

  You can drive in 20 different rides that range from standards like Mustangs, an El Dorado, and 
 several types of Volkswagens (including the Dune and the new Beetle RSi) to big rigs, double-decker 
 buses, and even a Humvee-wannabee called the "light tactical vehicle." But don't expect to hop 
 in that Dune, Aston Martin, or Panoz GTR-1 as soon as you load the game. Nearly half the cars are 
 locked when you first begin play. Fortunately, unlocking the first few isn't too tough when you 
 play on the amateur difficulty setting - for instance, to get the Audi TT, you just have to finish 
 in the top three of half of the San Francisco checkpoint races. Still, it can be frustrating to 
 have to unlock all those hidden cars.    

 All the race modes from the first game - checkpoint, blitz, circuit, and cruise - are still in the 
 sequel, and each is enjoyable in its own right. It's impressive how much time you can spend simply 
 in the free-for-all cruise mode, either driving in a law-abiding fashion or creating widespread 
 panic as you plow through any cars whose drivers are inconsiderate enough to get in your way. You 
 can't actually hit pedestrians, but watching them dive to safety or hug a wall as you blow by them 
 is a real hoot. Another nice feature is the amusing prerace and postrace announcer commentary. 
   

  The new race mode is called crash course, which seems like it might be designed to teach you how 
 to be a stunt driver in San Francisco, or else a cabbie in old London town. Divided into groups 
 of three short events followed a "midterm" exam, the crash courses also give you some good experience 
 at mastering the driving skills needed to win races against computer and human opponents. Unfortunately, 
 they're also tied in to the unlocking of two cars. The mission-oriented crash courses can be rather 
 exciting, but not necessarily more than the crash-bang thrills of the regular races.   

  As you run into things, you'll notice there's a damage meter that displays how badly you're smashing 
 up your car, though it's not visible with the first-person dashboard display turned on. But you 
 shouldn't worry too much because it takes multiple high-speed collisions just to see smoke start 
 pouring from the hood. Although it's possible to wreck your car so much that it can barely wobble 
 down the road, it takes a Herculean effort to achieve this level of destruction. On the other hand, 
 you'll appreciate the visual effects of the damage - dented doors, crumpled fenders, bent rims, 
 and more. There's only one thing missing from the equation: instant replay. In a game that puts 
 a premium on speed, wrecks, automotive aerobatics, and general mayhem, an instant replay or videotape 
 feature should have been a top priority. The lack of one in Midtown Madness 2 is disappointing, 
 especially since the one in Motocross Madness 2 worked so well.   

  You can count on hours of fun in the game's single-player mode, but the multiplayer mode makes 
 the game even better. The action seems fairly smooth over the MSN Gaming Zone, but as with most 
 driving games, things can get frustrating when players with high pings get into a race. Most fans 
 seem to favor variations on the cops and robbers mode, in which teams or single players race to 
 snatch a gold bar and return it to the bank (cop) or a hideout (robber) , but you can also run in 
 all the modes available in the single-player game.   

  Although its minimum system requirements are fairly low, you'll probably need a fast Pentium III 
 and a cutting-edge 3D video card to play Midtown Madness 2 in higher resolutions with all the graphical 
 bells and whistles turned on. But the action itself is so fast and brutal that you likely won't 
 mind one bit that you have to give up some visual extras in order to get a smooth frame rate. The 
 game might even make you consider making that hardware upgrade you've been putting off - and any 
 game that does that is always worth checking out.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (24 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Antrikshy
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 20, 2008 10:43 am PT
Review:  This was one cool game. I found the original pre-installed on my old PC and played the sequel's 
 demo. I liked it a bit, but the limitations were great. I bought the full version later and liked 
 it a lot. 
  
  The graphics were good, but not for nowadays. This game may engross you for a while, but maybe 
 you will put it back on the shelf. It was okay, the sounds were limited. Options were highly flexible 
 and there was no problem with the multiplayer modes. However, the multiplayers aren't available 
 on MSN anymore. 
  
  The races are easy and cruises never fail to entertain. The game largely lacked realism. The game 
 lacked a storyline. It had undestroyable environmental vehicles. The vehicles that move about are 
 too light. The police is too stupid and buggy. 
  
  However, I found plenty of mods to the game all over the web, but didn't install as they may have 
 been harmful, and they were also hard to integrate fully.
  
  The game is okay, Microsoft always does it great. Correctly applauded at the time, but not worth 
 buying now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dainsanereview
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 22, 2008 4:04 pm PT
Review:  midtown madness chicago edition this game is pretty cool that u get to go to in subways and the 
 uk tower in this game but u cant use your torpetos or MISSAISLE'S to blow it up wuah wuah wuahhhhhhhh. the 
 game is above average u cant go online but there is multiplayer where u can do 2 player races. 
 the graphic average graphics its not 3-d but its not ok im having sejuires ahhh ahhh it hurts ahhh. there 
 is also a hard mode and an easy mode easy mode u just do race and try to get to the next level 
 and unlock point in order to do that. theres only 8 cars throught the whole game. the control is 
 very bad through the game its like to sensitive you'd be going 150 miles per hour and u hold the 
 left keyboard key and you'd whipout but through all that it makes a real challenge that well catch 
 on and
  HAUNT U FOR LIFE muahahahaha.
  control 2
  graphics 5
  gameplay 10
  sound 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: axx1000
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 8, 2008 11:59 am PT
Review:  Midtown Madness is a great game, that i recommend. A great game that will satisfy the young/old 
 nubs/expert. if you want a driving/racing/cruise game u definitely want to check it out.
  
  Graphics: One of the things this game could use a bit more of. The cars look hardly realistic. 
 But this is a game that looks better without great graphics. 8 out of 10
  
  Story: This game has crash courses. The story in that is you have been fired from your job and 
 your rich uncle has lined up 2 jobs for you, one in San Francisco and one in London. Starts out 
 very easy then gets very hard. 8 out of 10
  
  
  Pros: lots of racing to it, can always go back to races, can use a game pad, joy stick, and a steering 
 wheel. can view a real picture of the car you're about to race as.
  
  Cons: You will definitely want to mod for game after sometime, don't over do it. You will end up 
 with stuff u want to take out and not know what file is it, name the mod according.
  
  Recommended for this game: Buy a steering wheel and get a mod that disables the Yikes message. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gbrading
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 24, 2008 2:55 pm PT
Review:  When I was a bit younger, in a simpler and somehow more naive world, I used to play nothing but 
 this game for days on end. If anything, I can credit Midtown Madness 2, along with Worms original 
 and Monkey Island 2: Le Chuck's Revenge, for introducing me into the world of computer games. Though 
 the progression of time has opened my eyes to the various shortcomings of this game, namely the 
 poor graphics and non-realistic interactivity of the cities, the racing aspects remain as strong 
 as ever. Most of all, the game is still good and fulfilling innocent fun.
  
  Midtown Madness 2 builds upon the mild success of the original Midtown Madness, which allowed for 
 a variety of racing types around a small free-roam version of Chicago. Here in the successor, the 
 basic formula has not been tampered with, but a few more modes have been added, whilst the overall 
 style has been honed and streamlined. There are also two brand new cities, London and San Francisco. 
 At heart, this is an arcade-style racing game, mixed in with the illusion of free-roaming, whilst 
 a couple of aspects of Stunt Driver have been thrown in for good measure. From the get-go, there 
 are a good selection of cars open to get along with (such as the Ford Mustang GT, the Cadillac 
 Eldorado and the Volkswagen New Beetle) and the promise of unlocking special or novelty vehicles 
 for completing races or accomplishing missions in the two career modes (including the Aston Martin 
 DB7, the first generation Audi TT and the New Mini Cooper) , bringing the total number of cars to 
 20.
  
  There are several varying racing styles to choose from in each city. You can do ordinary Circuit 
 races against AI opponents, Checkpoint races, where there is no predetermined route and you rush 
 to the nearest checkpoint at random, and Blitz, which is against the clock. There is also the freeform 
 Cruise mode, where you can explore the city at your leisure, taking care to avoid the police. All 
 three race types are done well, and the enemy AI is sufficiently challenging, though if they find 
 themselves off course they can get hopelessly lost and drive around in circles, literally. On top 
 of this, there are also two Crash Course career modes, where you take on the part of a London Cab 
 driver or a San Francisco stunt driver. These are a good diversion (if incredibly unrealistic, 
 when on Earth was cornering through red lights, at over 40mph on the Cab driver exam?) and require 
 similar skills to be mastered in each. Completing races and the challenges will unlock several 
 of the better or stranger cars and paintjobs, which are needed to complete the longer races against 
 tougher competitors in faster transportation later on.
  
  Graphically, this is not a game to write a letter home about, or even a postcard for that matter. 
 The cities have a variety of well-known landmarks peppered about the place (including all of the 
 usual suspects and also some you might not know about, save for the London Eye, since it wasn't 
 built when the game was created) , but none of them appear very detailed, or in anyway interesting 
 apart from merely their superficial value of going; "oh look, it's Buckingham Palace/The Golden 
 Gate Bridge". The polygon count on most of the buildings is pretty low, with generic images reused 
 quite often. The bodywork textures of the cars fare slightly better, and can at times look reasonable 
 sharp. However, the damage textures (which, for a game with solely licensed cars in it seems strange 
 in itself) , are blocky and extremely unrealistic, and really just look like mud and scratches caked 
 onto the bodywork. On the plus side however, for the road crazy enthusiast, the layout of most 
 of the streets is surprisingly accurate, though a certain amount of suspension of disbelief is 
 required to see the similarities between the game and their real-life counterparts (for example, 
 The Mall is woefully too short and much too wide, as is Market Street) .
  
  Though the game has an impressive selection of cars, it is easy to tell the difference between 
 the good and the bad ones. Each vehicle has controls which are enormously unrealistic or strange, 
 so that a Double-Decker bus can easily swing round sharp corners, but the Taxicab has difficulty 
 turning at all. Further, the speeds are also to be taken with a pinch of salt. When the extremely 
 tacky speedometer says that you are travelling at 70mph, it feels more like 30. You can also reverse 
 backwards at speeds upwards of 50mph. However, it is important to note that this game was not designed 
 to be realistic. One of the most fun aspects of the game is how destructible the street furniture 
 is. Absolutely everything, from lampposts to telephone boxes, newspaper vendors and hotdog stands 
 can be crashed into and thrown over the place, causing havoc for the traffic. The other road traffic 
 present in several modes can be slammed into, causing some pretty cool and destructive crashes. 
 It is a bit weird though that some heavy vehicles such as large trucks can be thrown sky high when 
 bumped into.
  
  The police in Midtown Madness 2 are both a fun distraction, and an annoying one. No matter how 
 fast you are going, no matter what you are doing (even if you are obeying the traffic laws, which 
 is a novel way to cruise around) , if you encounter a police vehicle parked by the side of the road, 
 it will immediately turn on its siren and pursue you, attempting to cause you to crash by forcing 
 you off the road or blocking your way. The only way to shake off the cops is either to destroy 
 them, or to get out of their pursuit radius. On the one hand, it is fun to be tearing along a street 
 with three cop cars on your tail, each one ferociously trying to take you down. On the other, the 
 police are totally above the law, often causing some of the most horrendous traffic accidents as 
 they stop at nothing in keeping up with you. Until 2006, the MSN Gaming Zone (now simply MSN Games) 
 had hosted online lobbies for multiplayer Midtown Madness games. Sadly, this has ended, though 
 it is possible to find certain sites that support the game, though it is extremely unlikely you 
 will find anyone to play with. It is also possible though to do DirectPlay with two people who 
 own copies of the game, if each knows the IP address of the other. There is however still a burgeoning 
 modification community, who have added vehicles, upgrades and alternative cities which can increase 
 the appeal of the game.
  
  Midtown Madness 2 will always hold a special place in my heart. It is one of the only games I felt 
 utterly compelled to finish entirely, and then play through all over again and again. Times may 
 have changed, but Midtown Madness is genuinely still one of the best arcade racing games there 
 has ever been. Though it is let down by some weaknesses, its addictive formula and simplistic approach 
 are too good to resist. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: titanic100
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 2, 2008 3:51 am PT
Review:  Midtown madness 2
  
  Midtown madness 2 is a very good game a lot better than Midtown madness 
  
  When I heard about 
 Midtown madness 2 I thought brilliant this is going to be a lot better than Midtown madness and 
 I thought correctly Midtown madness 2 is the best game in the Midtown madness parts and I have 
 played this game over and over again it is brilliant. 
  
  
  The Game play 
  
  Midtown madness 2 is exactly like Midtown madness you drive a car around ether san-Francisco or 
 London and this time you can unlock the Pranzo GTR by doing 5 races and then you can use that car 
 to win all of the other races (that is what I do anyway) another good thing about this game is 
 you can do crash courses one of them is London cabby and the second one is a stunt man doing stunts 
 for a director. 
  
  The sound 
  
  The sounds are even better than Midtown madness and more realistic I some areas and 
  
  The 
 graphics 
  
  The graphics are even much better than Midtown madness because you can see in more detail the damage 
 done to your vehicle and when you hit another vehicle you can hear the shattering of glass and 
 the hitting of metal. 
  
  All in all this game is a very good game and a lot better than Midtown madness. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: alext_b
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 22, 2007 9:48 pm PT
Review:  Midtown Madness is undoubtedly the ultimate free-driving game ever invented. The game offers interesting, 
 if a little difficult, missions. But the real fun of the game is the freeplay mode. You can either 
 practice a few missions you've already completely or simply drive around in one of the two cities 
 - San Fransisco and London. San Fransisco offers a lot of high speed driving potential, assuming 
 of course, you've unlocked enough cars to enjoy the roads: P
  If you're not into speed, or just got bored of it, London promises an amazing time dodging the 
 cops!! Certain terrain in the city further increases the amusement in cop fighting.
  Midtown Madness 2 has a lot of replay value as well. With a lot of modding potential and a very 
 dedicated community this game can last you a very long time if you can't find anything else to 
 play.
  This game is certainly a worthy buy and promises fun for the entire family. Of course, if you mind 
 playing a game with 'amusing' violence, it might be a good idea to rent this game first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: googleguru
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 19, 2007 11:55 am PT
Review:  Midtown Madness, in my opinion, is one of the most fun games of all time. Now that you can find 
 it fairly cheap on websites like eBay, it's a great game to pick up that runs on any Windows PC. 
 I don't know why it didn't get a 10/10 from Gamespot because once you start playing you'll never 
 leave the computer.
  
  There are two cities - San Francisco, California and London, England and the cities look great 
 and the modding community for Midtown Madness 2 at this point is fairly good. You can LEGALLY download 
 free cars and more tracks to play on that were made by independent gamers. Great fun for the entire 
 family - a worthwhile purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zlayerz
Rating: 7.7
Date: May 19, 2007 9:56 pm PT
Review:  This i one of the best racing games ever. Quite a wide vareityof crazy racing and not to mention 
 the crashing and flying all over the place. Graphic-wise could be better and it would be more fun 
 if th cops could arrest us. I have played this game many times and the MUSTANG 2+2 Fastback is totally 
 awsome. The PANOZ GTR has a color which makes invisible but we can still crash. It would be better 
 if we could go through EVERYTHING. HAHA. It could be like a special car or something. Overall it was 
 very fun to have played it. The sounds can get a little annoying. I slept once while playin Midtown 
 Madness 2 but it has nothing to do with the game play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killianfeehan
Rating: 7.7
Date: Feb 18, 2007 11:22 am PT
Review:  Midtown Madness 2 combines excellent gameplay with good graphics. There is plenty to do if you 
 ever get bored of cruising. There is a wide range of cars to choose from and two cities: London 
 and San Francisco.
  
  There is lots to do like being a Hollywood Stunt driver and/or a London cabbie. The London cabbie 
 is made alot easier if you have a basic knowledge of London's streets. No knowledge is needed to 
 do well in the Hollywood Stunt driver missions.
  
  The graphics are excellet for the game being made in 2000 but somethings may look like a glitch 
 in a present day game, like if you crash into a lamppost at all, it will fall over. I think the 
 graphics are one of the games strongest points and they compliment the cities very well.
  
  The sound of the game would have be its weakest point although it is still remarkale for its day. 
 The noise of the congestion in the city throws you right into the centre of a megalopolis.
  
  The game has many extra features, sideshows if you will, like races, crusing and scenarios. 
 These distinguish the game greatly from all its competitors at the time.
  
  Although I enjoyed the game I feel that it couldn't hold a candle to the racing games of today 
 which shows a remarkable improvement in game development in the last 7 years 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jim1029
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 26, 2006 7:57 am PT
Review:  This is arguably my very favorite video game of all time. It's simplistic, but surprisingly fun, 
 which equals a good game for me. I like games where I can play them for a while, then turn them 
 off. I don't like games where you have to play forever to get that turn a millimeter sharper, frustrating 
 you in the process.
  
  The time trials and races are very fun and well thought out. While they aren't insanely different 
 than regular races, you can tell that they weren't put together in 5 minutes on some computer screen. 
 One example is that it doesn't just say You finished in ___ place! , it gives you a list, which 
 is updated whenever another car finishes and its time. It's always fun to find out you beat somebody 
 by 2 milliseconds. (That has happened to me.)
  
  Another nearly unique feature is the Cruise mode. This is simply driving around in the city in 
 any car you want. Why is this fun? Two reasons: the cop chases and the cop chases! Woo-hoo! London 
 is my favorite city. For one thing, it's a city with many famous places and things, such as Big 
 Ben and The Underground subways. Speaking of the Underground, one of the most fun video game features 
 ever made, in my opinion, is embedded in this game. You can actually drive onto the platforms and 
 even on the tracks! (Countless times I have driven as fast as possible to avoid a speeding train 
 on my tail.) You can even have cop chases down there! Hooray! Trying to avoid speeding trains and 
 police cars is just too much fun! Unfortunately, that can't happen over ground; as in, me vs. police 
 car and train. Oh well! That'd be fun, but I guess the train cars have to stay on the track.
  
  San Francisco, while not as good as London, is still a fun place to be. One of my personal 
 favorite TV shows, MythBusters, takes place in San Francisco. While I haven't managed to do it, 
 I really want to see the MythBusters shop, called M5, in Midtown Madness 2! Unfortunately, this 
 game came out a year before the show premiered. So maybe it won't show it. Oh well. But that'd 
 be funny if I could find it.
  
  In addition, I like the San Francisco race tracks more than the London ones. I haven't unlocked 
 a race track in London that is partly (or fully) in the Underground. At least, I don't think so. 
 But it sure is fun to ride the London Taxi cabs in San Francisco! If only they could actually pick 
 up passengers. That would be mad fun. Same thing with buses. And I wish that when I drive as a 
 police car, you could turn the sirens on and chase somebody! That would be so fun, I would play 
 it all the time just to do that. Oh well, you can't have everything. Unlike one of the other racing 
 games I have played (NFS Underground 2 for PS2) , it has a learning curve that is just perfect, 
 a little over an hour. (That was my main problem with NFS Underground 2.) What else is fun is that 
 there is a tiny learning curve every time you play it. Granted, it's only about a minute or two, 
 but, in my opinion, that makes it a little bit more like actually driving a car, which is, quite 
 obviously, the objective of a racing game. And if you can believe it, the graphics are near perfect 
 too.
  
  Overall, a must have game! (Oh wait, have I not just spent these past 550 words saying that?) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: globenstein
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 2, 2006 3:03 pm PT
Review:  I don't usually give perfect scores but this game is something special. I've spent a great deal 
 of time playing everything it has to offer, and theres a lot.
  
  MM2 is a racing game set in two different maps: London and San Francisco. These maps are VERY well 
 done and since they respect fairly well the real cities, they give a nice impression of what it 
 is to drive on the Golden Gate or around Buckingham palace. Also, there's a great deal of cars 
 There are various modes to play with. Theres a nice set of races taking place in different areas 
 of the city (including the London metro) . There is also a special feature for each city: a London 
 cab school and a stunt driving school in SF. Plus, there's a cruising mode if you just feel like 
 driving around in the traffic or in empty streets, with weather and time options.
  
  The multiplayer can be a lot of fun. You can do races as well as games of Cops n' Robbers. Plus 
 several user-made games include roof wars and bus CnR. Finally, if you know where to look, you 
 can find hundreds of downloadable cars and dozens of mods and cities ; )
  
  In overall, if you like racing games for pc, you're going to spend a lot of time with this jewel. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rynn21
Rating: 7.9
Date: Nov 25, 2006 11:41 am PT
Review:  This is the 2nd installment of midtown madness. As most of the midtown madness fans know the original 
 experienced quite a lot of faults. That is all over now with Midtown Madness 2. Experience San 
 Francisco/London with most of its most memorable monuments. Unlike the first game installment Madness 
 2 has nearly no faults. You can play it on the fastest computers and have no errors. Although i 
 need to point out one fault. In san francisco when your on the golden gate bridge and to your right 
 thre is housing on a hill... near the curve in that road there is a black void or some strange error 
 where the car will get stuck right there and not move. Experiement if you cant find it by moving 
 a cpmuter car in front of you. It will start acting strange and unmovable. I would suggest using 
 the left lane instead. Now you have even more obstacles to explore. Try even more jumps, and tricks. 
 Lucky for you there are even steeper hills to jump. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IsmirZone
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 25, 2006 8:25 pm PT
Review:  Midtown Madness 2 has to be my most played PC game ever. This game truly has a great replay value. 
 Even to this date gamers play it. With the entire great car downloads and patches plus other great 
 extras. You will always find yourself playing this game every once in a while. The graphics are 
 not so much impressive as the games look now days. If you have a good computer you can set everything 
 on high detail and the draw distance to full and enjoy a great decent looking game. The game has 
 a soundtrack that I never choose to listen to but it's there if needed. You can have this game 
 filled up with pedestrians and traffic or any way you want it. You can have little cops or a lot. 
 If you dont like them you can turn them off. MM2 features many races from checkpoints to cruise. 
 You can choose from San Francisco or London, Night time or day time and different weather. Midtown 
 Madness 2 is one of the PC games I will be playing for years to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gambit_Fun234
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 10, 2006 12:16 pm PT
Review:  When I bought this game, I never played it. I was a Motocross and Monster Truck Madness fan but 
 I did not know about Midtown Madness. When i tried the game, I really thought it great and way 
 better than the first. The control was perfect and cruise mode gave me complete liberty like in 
 San Andreas but without the runnig and guns. The blitz, circuit and checkpoint mode where really 
 fun and hard to pass and driving school is really fun for the second mode of this big game. The 
 two towns are enormous and San Fransisco is really fun to drive on. This game also has a pretty 
 good soundtrack and the sounds the cars make are really realistic. The graphics are beautiful and 
 impressive. In the end, this game is really worth your money because it will last for days and 
 days without getting bored. And if you do get bored, try the online mode that is also really good 
 and it makes you explore Cops and Robbers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yamauchirulez
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 11, 2006 3:18 pm PT
Review:  When I bought MM2, I was asking myself: Is this a good idea? I was not dissapointed. It cost me 
 38 bucks and I played over 200 hours on it. It does not get is juice on the career mode. It gets 
 it from cruise. Cruise is so fun. Smash, Destroy and wreck everything in your path. You even have 
 cops on your tail (They cannot arrest you so make them eat **** The carrer mode is good too, but 
 it gets very, very frustrating because of all the hard stuff you gotta do. The cars are cool too 
 and if you don't get enough, you can download more on the internet (I had over 120 cars, 15 tracks 
 and 3 mods!) 
  In conclusion, this game has everything, from a highly addictive cruise mode to a very hard career 
 and race mode to keep you running for hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gupta_dune
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 9, 2006 12:44 pm PT
Review:  Brilliant game that tries to bring in the freshness of two cities- San Fran' and London with an 
 impressing effect that will make you want more of this. Resemblance of cityscape is far superior 
 than it's predecessor MM1 and the graphics are also far superior.
  There are 4 choices to choose from in the gameplay Cruise mode, race against AI opponents, race 
 against time, and circuit race against AI. In addition to this is the training mode which allows 
 you to hone your skills as well as unlock many new models which is fascinating. In the training 
 mode you can try as a San Fransisco stuntsman or a London cabbie. 
  Besides from the gameplay there are a wide variety of vehicles to choose from and great multiplayer 
 support on MSN gaming zone where you can compete with other human players. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: burnoutx1985
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 7, 2006 8:32 pm PT
Review:  Weve all wanted to plow through lines of cones. Its one of those things everyone wants to do. 
 And mow down mailboxes; floor it on a drawbridge, and various other insane ideas we get when we 
 drive.
  
  Well Midtown Madness was all these, and had a fun racing contingent to boot. Driving a Cadillac 
 Eldo over a drawbridge at 80 miles per hour with a cop on your tail is really a strangely exhilarating 
 experience. And the games good too. But really, the game was just plain fun. Open-ended racing 
 made it far better than the average turning straightforward game.
  
  Well Midtown Madness 2 expands on everything the original did well. The original cars are there, 
 with a load of new paint jobs. In addition, there are a bunch of brand new cars to play with and 
 unlock, including an Aston Martin and the Light Tactical Vehicle. (Cough, Hummer) The good old 
 Windy City is replaced in Midtown 2 with London and San Francisco, which both make for different 
 and fun driving.
  
  The racing modes are all still there, Blitz, Checkpoint, etc. There is still the most fun of all, 
 Cruise Mode, where you drive freely through the city, smashing your car up and being chased by 
 the police.
  
  Theres the new mode, Crash Course, which is almost story-driven. In it, you complete certain courses, 
 ranging from jumping a bridge to chasing another car trying to lose you. Themed after a stunt driving 
 school in San Francisco or a cab school in London, you complete the missions and Midterms in 
 order to unlock secrets. Some can be tedious, but many are very fun.
  
  One of the nicest features about Midtown Madness 2 is the variety of cars. Sure, there are probably 
 too many New Beetle variants, but Im willing to put up with that. Some of the cars that had to 
 be unlocked in the original, such as the Semi or the Mustang Fastback are already there to drive 
 freely. The newer cars must be unlocked though, but with cars like the Vantage DB7 theyre worth 
 the effort.
  
  Racing, which seemed almost like an afterthought to gain the new cars in the original, is now very 
 fun and more of a joy than a burden. In both cities the courses for all racing modes are original 
 and refreshing. They are well thought out and very fun overall. I found myself trying hard to unlock 
 all the cars, and while this was difficult, it wasnt overly hard or tedious. The racing covers 
 all sorts of experiences in all three racing modes. Everything from long, twisting street racing, 
 to crowded drag races is there, with each city providing a new and scenic view. When I came over 
 a small hill in San Franciscos Presidio, I was treated to a clear scenic view of the whole city, 
 with cars driving around it down the hills and pedestrians walking about.
  
  The graphics have been given a nice facelift, with improvements in the generic traffic cars, your 
 cars, and the pedestrians, who now appear to have a fair amount of detail, despite not really having 
 textures. No matter really, you usually dont see them until they leap away from your car.
  
  Cruise mode is something that was great in the original, and has been improved in Midtown Madness 
 2. No longer are there only a few police cars if you max out police density. Now theres one on 
 every corner practically if you want. This makes for great chases through the cities, each one 
 making different experiences. The police are also smarter this time around. Flooring it over a 
 hill in San Francisco in my GTR-1, I figured the cops would lose me. Instead, 4 police cruisers 
 came flying over the hill after me, a true sight to behold. Police cars are damaged just like your 
 own car, and are as detailed as your own.
  
  Damage is an area at which Midtown now excels. Sides get scraped up, fenders break off, cars with 
 low tire clearance get scraped apart on the curbs, and general wreckage is great. Even parked cars 
 can get their tires knocked off. The fire truck is truly a monster. Turning traffic and police 
 to the maximum and hauling around in the Dalmatian painted fire truck is one of the most fun things 
 I think you can do in this game. Speeding around causing huge collisions.
  
  Multiplayer is a lot of fun too. The various games make for some great experiences. Cops and Robbers 
 is an example of a simple concept and familiar game becoming a fresh new experience. Teamwork seems 
 to lack, however, over the Internet Gaming Zone. There are lots of possibilities, such as blocking 
 for your teammates with the bus, but most of the time its not ever put into play.
  
  The game is not without a few quirks, however. Some of the races and driving courses I found became 
 tedious after a few tries. In addition, the game has quick load times, but loads are rather frequent. 
 You have to load to go back into menus, and load to go into the game. Fortunately, there is no 
 load if you restart a race. Graphically, its a nice game. Textures tend to blur up close, but 
 thats really to be expected. The buildings sometimes seem uniform, as well. But there are familiar 
 landmarks, so that compensates to some degree.
  
  All in all, Midtown Madness 2 will not disappoint. As long as you know what youre getting. Its 
 not a hardcore racing sim, but a fun action packed romp through real-world cities, and an excellent 
 one at that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SZeroC
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 2, 2006 5:33 pm PT
Review:  If there is one thing that I appreciate in life above all things (other than things not mentionable 
 here) it's when something works as advertised. It's a rare occurrence that I buy something, take 
 it home, and get what I paid for. Maybe it's the world we live in. Maybe it's Bill Clinton's fault, 
 or perhaps it has something to do with the Middle East. Regardless, when something delivers on 
 its promise, no matter how big of a promise it is, I'm happy. Games are tops on the list in this 
 category. Most games that look cool end up disappointing. Midtown Madness 2, the sequel to the 
 above average Midtown Madness, delivers on its promise, and it didn't let me down at any point. 
 That's a good thing.
  
  When I first played the original early last year, I was pretty impressed with the physics, the 
 graphics, and the wide selection of cars. Other games had come out around that time that offered 
 gimmicks to mask their weaknesses in the areas of physics or realism. Midtown Madness didn't do 
 that. Instead, the game relied on its ability to realistically deliver a driving experience. For 
 a purist like myself, that's pretty impressive. The game lacked a bit in overall enjoyment (basically, 
 it got dull after a while) but it scored well in key areas and still remains one of my favorite 
 driving games. For the sequel to impress me, it would have to take that realistic experience, and 
 make it more enjoyable. It does.
  
  In an effort to add a fun factor to this game, the folks at Angel Studios and Microsoft Games added 
 some radical new vehicle choices, some comedic commentary, and added a few new twists to the game. 
 Fans of the original will instantly recognize the graphics interface, which has been tweaked a 
 bit, and the controls as well. From there, things change a bit, though not so much that the game 
 loses its original flavor.
  
  Midtown Madness initially offers two locales to race in: London and San Francisco. I think Frisco 
 is an excellent area to race in, mainly because it guarantees plenty of airtime, and thus adds 
 another dimension to racing. If you liked the San Francisco Rush arcade games, then you will certainly 
 enjoy that locale in this game. London offers a completely different experience, with extremely 
 narrow streets, plenty of winding turns, and, of course, the driving on the left hand side of the 
 street thing.
  
  What really makes these two cities work is the near-perfect depiction of even minor details. I've 
 been to San Fran and London, and recognized buildings and other subtleties. One point of interest 
 is the ability to drive through London's famed Underground, their subway system. Just watch out 
 for the rail cars, they hurt. Two cities to race in isn't really a lot, but at least the two cities 
 that Microsoft picked are enjoyable enough to make up for that. Plus, there was only one city to 
 explore in the original.
  
  Where the game really shines is in its car selection. There are plenty of cars to choose from. 
 You have two Mustangs (old and new) three types of Mini cars (European, think Mr. Bean) a Ford 
 pickup, a London Taxi, a city bus, a British Double-Decker bus, the Audi TT, three Volkswagen Beetles, 
 a super fast Roadster and formula car (from a Ford owned company called Panoz) , a military assault 
 vehicle, Cadillac Eldorado, an Aston Martin, and a Mack truck. That's a pretty wide selection. 
 What makes the selection so good is the wide variety of different driving experiences available. 
 You have a good mix of speed, handling, and pure vehicular mass. Each vehicle handles completely 
 differently, so you can find a car that suits your driving style without a problem. I personally 
 enjoyed driving through the streets of London in my city bus, basically wrecking whatever got in 
 my way.
  
  Midtown Madness 2 offers four different styles of racing: a free-for-all cruise around the town, 
 a blitz, where you have to reach the checkpoints under a certain amount of time by yourself, a 
 checkpoint race, where you race against 7 other drivers to clear all the checkpoints (in any order) 
 and cross the finish line, and a circuit race, a standard among most driving games. Of all the 
 races, I enjoyed the checkpoint the most, I guess because it is reminiscent of the classic arcade 
 racers. The cruise is also kinda cool, because it allows you to just race around the city by yourself, 
 outrunning the cops and basically laying waste to the scenery. And this works well, because the 
 effects of such damage are almost true to life. Trees, at least smaller ones, get blasted into 
 leaves and firewood, mailboxes shoot mail all over the street, and so on. Unfortunately, like last 
 year's version, you can't hit pedestrians in Midtown Madness 2. Pity.
  
  The graphics are nicely updated from the last version, and depending on what type of system you 
 are running, they can range from above average to excellent. On a P-III 500 with a Voodoo3 3500, 
 I was able to scale the resolution up to 1600x1200, without a ridiculous amount of slowdown. I 
 wouldn't recommend playing at this resolution, but something like 1280x1024 with the right card 
 is just about perfect. Though the Voodoo is limited to 16-bit textures, everything looked crisp, 
 and I would rate the game visuals up there with just about any other driving game out there. On 
 a system capable of 32-bit rendering, things got even nicer. The sky and building textures are 
 excellent as is the car detail. Actually, the cars look almost like they are taken from real life, 
 with subtle features of each car displayed perfectly.
  
  One thing that is vastly improved over last year's version is the sound. There is full support 
 for both EAX and A3D cards, and the 3D sound brings you into the game. Engine sounds vary according 
 to what car you are driving, as are tire screeches and collisions. Ambient sounds are also nicely 
 delivered, adding nicely to the overall experience.
  
  What really sets this game apart from other racing titles is the multiplayer. The original Midtown 
 Madness was a blast to play online, and the sequel looks like it will continue that tradition. 
 Multiplayer works real well with these games because the best thing about arcade racers is the 
 ability to demolish your friends. This is delivered perfectly in this game, and I look forward 
 to hours of driving my buddies off the road. First, of course, I need to find some buddies.
  
  Control on this game is dead perfect. You have a choice between a joystick, a wheel, the mouse, 
 and the keyboard. Unless you want to atone for some serious sins in your life, I don't recommend 
 the keyboard. Surprisingly, the mouse works okay. Actually, I have a trackball (Logitech Trackman 
 Marble, if ya need to know) and I spent more time playing with the trackball than I did the gamepad. 
 The wheel, of course, is the best way to go. Setup was a snap (I WAS using a Microsoft wheel, however) 
 and the response was just about right. In order to add some spunk to the game, Microsoft threw 
 in a new control twist. It's called the powerslide. Basically, it's the incorporation of a handbrake, 
 very similar to the one used in Driver. If you need to make a sharp turn at high speed, you hit 
 the powerslide button/key, and you whip around the turn with aplomb. It's nothing earth shattering, 
 but it is a nice touch. Overall, the game gets an 'A' for control.
  
  Where the game sort of falters is in the damage model. Each car is rated on its mass and durability, 
 so, obviously, you can take more damage with a Mack truck than you can with a Volkswagen Beetle. 
 This is good, but there is still some lack of realism in the model itself. You see, I hit a brick 
 wall in a Ford Mustang at 155MPH, and though the car did sustain a significant amount of damage, 
 I was still able to continue. For the sake of comparison, I tried to get my friend to lend me his 
 Mustang so I could try this out in real life, but alas, he refused, calling me things like sicko, 
 and moron. Some people just don't get it. Anyway, I think it is safe to assume that the real life 
 car would not have been able to do much racing after a crash like that. Don't get me wrong, I know 
 that if any game offered real world damage models, they would be frustrating and dull (life real 
 life itself) but I think there should be some sense of realism thrown in. For a game that is pretty 
 realistic in every other category, Midtown Madness 2 just misses the mark on its damage model.
 
  
  Midtown Madness was no great leap in video game technology. It was actually better than that. Instead 
 of boldly trying to break completely new ground in the genre, Microsoft and Angel Studios decided 
 to take our current technology and get the most use out of it. What that translates to is a highly 
 playable, nice looking and realistic game experience. The sequel follows the same philosophy, while 
 turning up the fun factor to boot. With the addition of some new cars, new cities, and some minor 
 gameplay tweaks, Midtown Madness 2 should definitely keep fans of the original happy, and bring 
 some new fans into the fold as well.
  
  The original Midtown Madness brought the Madness series from Monster Trucks and motorcycles, to 
 real cars on city streets. What makes this series so good is the near perfect depiction of the 
 cities you race in, combined with top-notch vehicle physics. Midtown Madness 2 improves on the 
 original in both form and function, adding better graphics, crisp sound, a slew of new cars, and 
 timely gameplay tweaks. Driving fans should pick this up without question. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mayuran_x
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 1, 2005 7:07 pm PT
Review:  I first played the game at my cousin's house and felt in love with it. After I bought the fame 
 I played it for hours, but sooner or later the game gets really boaring. The graphic is ok, but 
 the PC controls are the worst. I wish they make it to PS2. The checkpoints and circut races will 
 keep you going. My favourite is the free roaming mode, but the enviroment could been more distructable. 
 You could explore the map are hours with out getting boared. They should had more racing or sport 
 cars. Tey didn't have a single muscle cars. The game is pretty good and I certainly recommende it 
 to any racing fans out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fenix1022
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 27, 2005 8:19 am PT
Review:  I have been to London before, but never did I drive like the taxi drivers in NYC. This game gives 
 you the opportunity.
  
  One of the two maps is the London map. You can ride over the London Bridge, through a castle in 
 the middle of the city, and right up to the palace gates. I really enjoy this map because of the 
 uncanny resemblance to the actual city. Though it would be really cool to find Sega World.
  
  Then there is the San Francisco map. You get to drive over the Golden Gate Bridge, through 
 the highway over the city, and through the gay pride district. It is really cool how realistic 
 it is. Now if I could just visit the west coast, I could see how accurate it is.
  
  The modes include free drive, race, and time attack. I honestly prefer just drive around the city 
 and running from the cops, but you do what you think is fun. You get to adjust the traffic, cop, 
 and pedestrian density in the free mode.
  
  So buckle up and drive because you are going to have a crazy experience with these realistic maps.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: taekwondokid
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 13, 2005 12:19 pm PT
Review:  That game rocks. This is the real car driving and racing game. THIS IS WHAT THEY CALL A GAMEEEEE!!! 
 This game is crazy good. You drive in cities you can race or drive. Of course in all the car race 
 games it is boring to drive all the time. Also this game gives you cool stuff like jump, drive normal 
 way, get police, different cars... AND if you have a steel wheel IT IS GREAT!!! So dont wait for that 
 game JUST GET IT !!!! And this game has a cool graphics. This game will not let you go anywhere 
 else (maybe bathroom but...) So thats how much u gonna love this game!!! Also they have the original 
 map from cities. Like they have the same map of Chicago. No really they do. SO DONT WAIT JUST GET 
 IT!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ritard
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 3, 2005 6:25 pm PT
Review:  This game is honestly one of the best racing games i've played to date. Online isn't as good as 
 it used to be due to lack of players and constant new glitches being found and a sickening amount 
 of car customization cheats ( I raced a guy who got his mini cooper classic to go 300MPH) And an 
 invincible humvee that flips around. If you get good though you can counter some of these techniques 
 with skill. This games online feature has quite a few modes of play.
  Cops and Robbers (online only) : A team of robbers try to get to the gold before the cops and take 
 it back to their hideout. The Cops can take the gold from a robber by smashing into him with his 
 car.
  CTF (Online only) : simmilar to cops and robbers but both teams compete to get the flag back to 
 their base.
  Circuit: A race with up to 8 players competing to finish the set number of laps first
  Checkpoint: 
 A race with the checkpoints set up all across the map where you can go through them in any order 
 to try and find the best route to the finish.
  Blitz: Each checkpoint only appears after you reach the one before it.
  Cruise: A first to online 
 play where you and up to 7 other players can just cruise the town opening up a wealth of ideas 
 for your own modes of play.
  Here are some frequent ones ive come across...
  Roof warz (Multiplayer/online) : In sanfrancisco there is a building that has a rooftop easily accesible 
 with 80mph where you try to knock the other players off (i personaly use VW RSI because the low 
 bumper that curves causes players to just run over your car off the edge)
  Legal Cruise (Multiplayer/Online) : This game is best played in london so i'll explain that version, 
 There is 1 cop to every two civillians and they cruise around making sure you stop at stop lights, 
 don't hit anything, go at a safe speed (you can't tell how fast someone else is going but it's 
 easy to estimate) you can turn the digital spedometer on and off by pressing the 'h' key. If the 
 cops catch you, you are sent to the castle where there are other cops patrolling to make sure you 
 don't try to escape. all the cops have to do to catch you is ram you into a wall. Note that if 
 you don't listen to the cops the game host will most likely boot you from the game.
  Battleground (multiplay/online) : Simmilar to Roof Warz but the idea is to destroy the opponents 
 car and you can go anywhere you want on the map 
  (this mode is where the humvee cheat becomes annoying it doesnt make them invincible but they are 
 almost completely indestructible.) when this cheat is used i suggest using the heaviest car you 
 have against it as a lighter car is usally less durable and thus less likely to win. I have beaten 
 this cheat using the Ford F-350.
  If you don't have an internet connection cruise is the lifeline that makes this game so incredibly 
 addicting. Unfortunately you have to play the games other modes to unlock custom paint jobs and 
 other cars. 
  In addition to the races and cruise, single players can choose to attempt the driving schools as 
 either a london cabbie or a SF stunt driver.
  Completing london cabbie unlocks the auston martin DB7 Vantage a really fast car. (has a problem 
 driving straight onto sidewalks, the car will usally bounce off.)
  While Completing the stunt driver course unlock the LTV (Humvee)
  Both schools unlock custom 
 paint jobs for certain cars.
  There are more than 20 cars in total and if you played the first game but couldn't unlock many 
 cars it will come as a relief to find all of these cars unlocked except for the Panoz GTR-1 but 
 it's alot easier to unlock.
  The addition of there being 2 cities makes it a huge improvement over the first game, but oddly 
 enough the city in that game (chicago) wasn't included in this game.
  The cars givin to you at the offset are as follows.
  Mini-Cooper classic (this car is fun to 
 cruise but not much use for anything else. 4/10
  VW New beetle (Absoloutely no use for this car) 1/10
  London Cab (.....) 4/10
  Double-Decker 
 Bus ( this makes for an interesting CTF match as they tend to roll over) 3/10
  Ford Mustang GT (nice all around car but once you unlock some other cars this one becomes obsolete) 
 5/10
  Police Cruiser (Ford mustang GT but with the flashing lights and stuff) 5/10
  Freightliner Century (one of the circuit stages disagrees with this truck as on the hill before 
 the finish line your car wil do an absurd amount of summersaults upon coming off the hill) 3/10
 
  City Bus ( don't listen to the manual this vehicle has no value) 0/10
  Cadilac Eldorado ( a great car and fun to race in 7/10
  Ford F-350 (A popular car for CTF useful 
 for battling with the AI cops in cruise mode, moderatly fast and pretty durable) 8/10
  Panoz Roadster (Incredibly fast but ugly turning abillity and if you run into anything at a speed 
 of over 150MPH you're bug squat. Can reach speeds of 200MPH+) 6/10
  Ford Mustang Fastback ( A great car that can contend with the faster cars if you have skill. Can 
 reach speeds of 150MPH. Good durablillity) 9/10
  
  how much you like this game is all about personal prefrence but if you like car battling games 
 such as Twisted Metal you will probably like this game at least enough to buy it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: twillingate
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 10, 2005 4:22 pm PT
Review:  This game is another racing game that I love. One of my personal favorites. But this isn't your 
 ordinary racing game. You can race around 2 cities, San Fransico and London. There are 4 modes, 
 circuit (circuit racing) , checkpoint (race from checkpoint to checkpoint against the computer players, 
 blitz (race against the clock) , and cruise (no racing) and you can play in multiplayer mode. This 
 game is very similar to the older version Midtown Madness 1 except I like Midtown Madness 1 better 
 because of better graphics and the city is better, altough this game has two cities. In London, 
 you drive on the left side of the road, in San Fransico, you drive on the right side of the road 
 (because London is in england, and San Fransico is in the United States of America as you probably 
 know.) What can I say? it's an excellent game with loads of downloadable cars and tracks available 
 on the internet, almost like midtown madness 1. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mithu1234
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 3, 2005 2:20 pm PT
Review:  midtown madness 2 is a real fun game but with insanity. so if u are looking for a serious game and 
 care for ur money forget it. but if u are fun seeking and wish to drive recklessly which u cant 
 do in real life, then this game is just where ur search ends. it is complete in this respect. morever 
 u can download new mods, great cars from internet and this will add to the game value. try mods like 
 alien, choco  and cars like porsche, american army car, huge bouncy 
 trucks with massive tyres, yamaha roadster etc. so if u are willing to experiment or just have minimum 
 concern for the bucks at hand, then plz go for this sequel.
  
  GRAPHICS: awesome, cool, just brilliant,8/1
  
  SOUND:7.5/10
  
  GAMEPLAY: IF NORMAL:6.5/10
 
  IF U ARE MANIAC:8/10
  
  OVERALL: GOOD FOR ONE'S COLLECTION AND SPENDING ONE'S LEISURE TIME. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
