-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Midtown Madness
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/driving/midtownmadness/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May 27, 1999
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.7
Critic Score: 8.1, 24 Review (s)
User Score: 7.9, 552 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Microsoft Game Studios
Developer: Rockstar San Diego
Genre: Mission-based Driving
Date:     Apr 30, 1999

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Although its driving mechanics aren't terribly sophisticated, it can be a lot of fun because it 
 affords you that very freedom that all driving games should but rarely deliver. 

 Driving games remain a mostly unexplored frontier. Flight simulators give you the whole countryside, 
 spaceflight simulators give you the galaxy, but most driving games give you about six tracks. With 
 few exceptions, in driving games you never really get the sense of freedom that the motor vehicle, 
 in that ideal world as portrayed in car commercials, is supposed to provide. That's why Midtown 
 Madness, because of its ambitious scope, stands poised to redefine the genre's standards: The game 
 doesn't contain traditional tracks, so much as the entire city of Chicago mapped out by the block, 
 complete with all its famous landmarks from the Sears Tower to Wrigley Field. The city lives and 
 breathes rather like the real thing, with variable traffic and weather conditions, pedestrians, 
 traffic lights, cops, and freeways. And you get to drive wherever you want within the windy city, 
 and however you want. Although its driving mechanics aren't terribly sophisticated, it can be a 
 lot of fun because it affords you that very freedom that all driving games should but rarely deliver. 

 You get to drive a wide assortment of real-world vehicles, from the frightfully popular Volkswagen 
 New Beetle to the luxurious 1999 Cadillac El Dorado. You can also unlock a bevy of unusual machines, 
 from a city bus to a souped-up Ford Mustang police car. All these cars handle and sound different 
 from one another (you even hear warning beeps when the bus goes in reverse) , and although the game 
 plays best from a third-person view, you can switch to a unique first-person dashboard view, complete 
 with steering wheel and tachometer but no rearview mirrors. There's also a great wide-screen view 
 that increases your field of vision as well as your frame rate, and there's a real-time map of 
 the city marked with all its landmarks. Though you can drive around ten different vehicles total, 
 it's too bad there weren't even more real cars, like the hundreds available in the popular PlayStation 
 driving game Gran Turismo. It's also a bit of a disappointment that all the cars you'll come across 
 on the city streets are generic hatchbacks and sedans and not the real thing like what you're driving. 

 Midtown Madness requires some pretty powerful hardware in order to look its best, and even at its 
 best it doesn't look as good as it might have and often suffers from choppy frame rates. With all 
 its options turned on, the vehicles look nice and shiny although at times a little too flat. They 
 get damaged when they run into things, although this effect isn't entirely convincing either. Other 
 details really stand out, like the bright traffic lights and the different weather and time conditions 
 that manage to evoke a particular beauty about the city through their sheer variety. But while 
 it's great to see Chicago's landmarks and its smaller streets modeled so carefully, it's too bad 
 that most of the storefronts in the game are generic and often repeated, even on the same block. 
 Thus Midtown Madness approaches, but doesn't actually reach, that meticulous level of realism and 
 detail that driving games must necessarily strive for.  

 Nevertheless, it's fun to be able to drive like a maniac and beat up a Beetle while racing the city 
 cops. If you feel there's some scathingly detrimental social undercurrent to this game's affording 
 you the freedom to drive however you like, then by all means keep off the road. But Midtown Madness 
 doesn't present itself as some sort of perfectly realistic simulation: Pedestrians deftly dive 
 out of the way of traffic, cars that are struck and sent airborne safely return to their routine, 
 and mailboxes and parking meters that are uprooted eventually regenerate in their rightful places. 
 Midtown Madness lets you safely run amok, because you know you can't in real life.  

 There's a lot of running amok to be done. The cruise mode just lets you drive wherever you like 
 without restriction, but a number of other modes, including checkpoint races, larger-scale circuit 
 races, timed races, and even a multiplayer-only cops and robbers game add a lot of value as you 
 try to beat your rivals, the clock, or both. Your computer-controlled rivals drive aggressively 
 and seek out shortcuts, while you yourself must choose to either adhere to the rules of the road 
 or take some serious risks in reaching your destination before the other cars do. Even in these 
 more straightforward racing modes, Midtown Madness lets you drive however you want. Add to that 
 a fairly realistic physics model, good graphics and sound, and a lot of variety, and it's easy 
 to see why Midtown Madness is so much fun. You'll find yourself wishing it was even more detailed, 
 but all the same, you'll wish all other driving games paid as much attention to detail as this 
 one.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (14 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: rezpatriot
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 7, 2008 8:41 am PT
Review:  Its not often you see a driving game that incorporates a lot of different features. Usually their 
 is a emphasis on some style of play in particular. Either running people over, blowing each others 
 cars up and reliving it in slow motion, racing a track to gain money. But I found Midtown Madness 
 to be a combination of a lot of styles of gameplay and taking the best bits from each and throwing 
 away the parts that didn't work. Now it was a long time ago I played this, around the time I was 
 playing Unreal Tournament. 
  This game is graphically good, and has a certain je ne c'est quoi about the game that kept me coming 
 back to play it and play it again. I really enjoyed the races, and although some were hard, I felt 
 that I wasn't wasted time and that I could progress quickly, unlocking new cars, and upgrading 
 my own skills in the game.
  This is hard to compare to games out like Colin McRae Dirt, or Need for Speed because the graphically 
 immersion those games provide are good. But this is a solid racing game with no faults. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 100140
Rating: 10
Date: May 18, 2008 1:11 pm PT
Review:  If you like racing games, than this game is for you. You can just roam around in Chicago all you 
 want. There are a number of different types of races that you can compete in. By winning races 
 you can unlock more cars from the Ford Mustang to the City Bus. There are a ton of different cars 
 in the game. You can even play as the Cop car if you unlock it. Yes, there are cops. You can change 
 the weather, how many pedestrians there are, how much traffic, and how many Cops there are. The 
 only thing is that the cops can't bust you, you just hit them until their car dies, but it is still 
 fun. My favorite thing to do is Cruise, which all you do is roam around Chicago. You can just do 
 what you want. The BEST thing to me is that your car gets dammaged when you crash it. The Game 
 just NEVER GETS BORING!!! Even though it came out in 1999, it still never gets boring. You HAVE 
 TO BUY THIS  They even have a second and a third Midtown Madness 
 game. I sure hope you follow my advice by buying this game. I have had this game for years and 
 yes, I sure am still playing it. IT JUST NEVER GETS  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bastiolo
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 28, 2008 11:25 am PT
Review:  This was one of my very first (racing) games. I've spent a lot of hours in it, especially in cruise 
 mode, and I loved it. It was just a part of my childhood.
  
  One of the good things of the game are the graphics. Of course, now we live in 2008, but for 1999 
 it's pretty nice. The car damage and the dashboards are a good example of that. 
  
  The game play is the best thing of the game. Cruise mode is fantastic. You can drive around in 
 a pretty large map, and do what you want to do. Jumping over bridges was one of my favourite things 
 to do in cruise mode, and the pedestrians are extremely funny to watch. Also, exploring secret 
 passages (not that there are so many, but it's just funny exploring them) is a cool thing to do 
 in the game. 
  
  The races are cool as well. Blitz mode, where you race against the clock, is pretty hard though, 
 but if you're experienced with the game, you should be well entertained. 
  
  Conclusion: Not a game of this time, but still a classic one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: titanic100
Rating: 7.7
Date: Apr 2, 2008 3:32 am PT
Review:  Midtown madness 
  
  Midtown madness is a very good game 
  
  When I heard about Midtown Madness I thought you drove a car at high speed around a little town 
 and I was half correct, when I brought the game I saw some races and the went to a cars too see 
 what there was and I saw that I had to do some races to unlock the cars that I wanted. 
  
  The game play
  
  You have to drive a car around the city of Chicago and you have to do races 
 to be able of having more cars and also there is a truck with a trailer that you can unlock, the 
 best car is the panzer GTR which is the fastest car on the game but you need to do the races on 
 professional. 
  
  The graphics 
  
  The graphics are quite good but they were very good for it time the game is still a very good game 
 and it is enjoyable but if you have got a graphics card that is not very good and you have predictions 
 on the game and a lot of vehicles the graphics are not very good. 
  
  The sounds 
  
  The sound is very good realistic sounds when you crash and sound your horn and the engine sounds 
 are very good. 
  
  This game was very good for it's time but I say it is still a good game. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lukemaneiro
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 13, 2007 5:53 am PT
Review:  Midtown Madness delivers reasonable graphics and sound for its time, good physics and easy controls. 
 There are many different racing modes you can try, but you the thing you will enjoy the most in 
 this game is the Cruise mode.
  
  You can set how much traffic you want, how many pedestrians you want, the time, the weather... 
 everything, and you just go around the city and do whatever you want. Reminds me of GTA, really...
 
  
  Though the racing is really fun for anyone who enjoys that kind of game. Can be really hard sometimes, 
 you'll have to figure out shortcuts to finish the race in 1st place, and the unlockable vehicles 
 are also really fun to play on racing and cruise mode, since all of them have something unique: 
 speed, armor, size...
  
  Physics are good, but they're kind of messy sometimes. Your car can spin at various, unbelieving, 
 weird ways. The police AI is really, really dumb, since they crash into everything just to get 
 you, but its fun to get chased, it is fun...
  
  I wouldn't recommend you to buy this today, but if you have it, you got yourself a classic racing 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrAbs
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 4, 2007 4:57 am PT
Review:  Well not that that Header didn't already say it all.
  
  Obviously this game does not match up with the games of today, but it stays fun none the less.
 
  
  The Older graphics do make the game run very smooth on the newer PC's. I do feel however that the 
 cars are Pulled to the ground a bit more than they should. The cars don't get that nice lift you 
 would like to have when making big jumps. The sound of the commentators is good, but they did not 
 have a fear of repeating themselves. If you die, he is going to say the script again. Gameplay 
 is fun at first but can get repetitive. I think it is just one of those games you need to make 
 your own decision if you like it or not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paulitis
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 5, 2007 4:50 am PT
Review:  Midtown Madness is an crazy game from Microsoft. You can run into house and nothing happens to 
 your car.
  
  For today graphic is not good but for 1999 it is good graphic. Police is one MADNESS. Police runs 
 into ton of cars and nothing happens.
  
  Their is five mods of racing 1 Cruise - Just drive around Chicago. 2 Checkpoint - Compete with 
 usually with eight cars. Who will first finish.
  3 Blitz - You have some time to drive from A point to Z point. 4 Lap - Drive three laps with eight 
 opponents.
  5 - Cops &amp; Robbers in multyplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rynn21
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 25, 2006 11:30 am PT
Review:  This is the original midtown madness for the pc. You may spend a great many hours just cruising 
 and exploring all the havoc you could reek on chicago/london. However the amount of freedom this 
 game gives you to explore what is mostly a spitting image of the real 2 cities, this game might 
 cause computer failure. If you are not using a 98 windows computer this game might stall when you 
 play it or even cause the graphics to go way beyond 3 dimensional. I played this game for many 
 years but eventually when i bought a faster computer the game just couldnt handle it. This isnt 
 to say that the game is only faults. It is quite an enjoyable game to get out your frustration 
 out on the cities. There is many obstacles that you can discover that would allow for many car 
 tricks and stunts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thesimsfrk111
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 11, 2006 3:11 pm PT
Review:  Midtown Madness: FACT: Its an awesome game.
  I don't really know what it costs now, but its probably real cheap, so go buy it!
  I liked the 
 races, they were always fun and exhilerating, I was always on the edge of my seat going, Yes!!! 
 Yes!!! at the end of a race. I really would like to see a Midtown Madness 4 on the PC and I hope 
 Microsoft realizes what a gem this game really is. If anyone rates this game below a 7, please, 
 for the good of the world and for your own safety, please take your hands off of that crack you 
 have there.
  
  ~Ryan~ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vedicpi
Rating: 5.2
Date: Aug 9, 2006 12:40 am PT
Review:  Midtown madness was not any better than any other normal 'so called racing' game. Far better than 
 this are Grand Tourismo, Harley Davidson, MotoGP and not to forget, Superbike.
  Bike and Car are not comparable, I agree but, this game did not have many good aspects like money, 
 faster cars and nor any job kind of (if it was action or RPG) in MM. Anyways, Microsoft has shown 
 its best in MM3 3D MOBILE and I would always be ready to 'give a few words of encouragement'
  
  Not bad for the type, but always any race is on my side.
  
  P. S. Panoz GTR1 was the easiest 
 to control, of all in the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yamauchirulez
Rating: 2.3
Date: Jan 11, 2006 3:05 pm PT
Review:  This games sucks in so many ways!!!!!!!!!!!!
  
  Graphics: The graphics are terrible. Not the graphics in perticular, but the fact that you can 
 see what is ahead of you! There is like big white things that appear on screen. That does not make 
 the game enjoyable.
  
  Gameplay: Sucks big time. The controls in this game makes you think of the old 80's era racing 
 games. And we where in 1999 when this game was made. A stupid investment by Microsoft. (They suck.)
 
  
  Sound: This is the only thing that is not bad in the game. The voices are good and quite funny, 
 too. The engine sound is great, nothing to say about that.
  
  Value: Well, for an incredibly short and bad game like this, I would buy it now for 9.99 max.
 
  
  Conclusion: At least this leaded to a great sequel.................
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DragonKiller17
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 15, 2005 4:24 pm PT
Review:  I don't know why this game haven't got that much praise... this game is everything anyone could 
 ask in a driving game... and please note that this game came out in 1999... These graphics are 
 quite impressive, and so is the sound effects but that isn't the point. Its the ability to cruise 
 through a town on your own... is the fun part. Being able to drive through the whole town without 
 boundaries is the part ur going be coming back for... The checkpoint racing and the circuit and 
 the professional games add another level to the game to check out... This game is extrodinary.. 
 but there is a problem that i find... it can't run smoothly on windows xp... anyways a great game! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: taekwondokid
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 13, 2005 12:14 pm PT
Review:  That game rocks. This is the real car driving and racing game. THIS IS WHAT THEY CALL A GAMEEEEE!!! 
 This game is crazy good. You drive in cities you can race or drive. Of course in all the car race 
 games it is boring to drive all the time. But this game gives you cool stuff like jump, drive normal 
 way, get police, different cars... AND if you have a steel wheel IT IS GREAT!!! So dont wait for that 
 game JUST GET IT !!!! This game will not let you go anywhere else (maybe bathroom but...) So thats 
 how much u gonna love this game!!! Also they have the original map from cities. Like they have the 
 same map of Chicago. No really they do. SO DONT WAIT JUST GET IT!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: twillingate
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 10, 2005 4:25 pm PT
Review:  This is the ultimate racing game. Personally, I like it better than the 2nd version of the Midtown 
 Madness series. I haven't tried MM3, but I will sometime. The graphics are excellent (but not perfect..) . 
 This game was released back in 1999, so its relatively old, but you can still download awesome 
 cars off the internet, even police cars with working sirens and lights wow. you can play with different 
 types of weather including sunny, raining, snowing, etc. and there is only one city to start with, 
 altough more can be downloaded at various websites. :-) This game is extremely addictive. You will 
 love it! It is the best in the series!! (well, out of the two PC games.) You got to try it! Its 
 cheap too! The perfect racing game! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
