-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Midway Arcade Treasures Deluxe Edition
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/driving/midwayarcadetreasures3/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Good list of games.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Missing audio.
 Graphics often look blurry.
 Control setup is a hassle.
 You have to install it twice.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb 28, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.7
Critic Score: 7.1, 6 Review (s)
User Score: 6.9, 67 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Midway
Genre: Compilation
Date:     Feb 17, 2006
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
While the list of games may look enticing, the package has a sloppy, thrown-together feel to it 
 that significantly nullifies the nostalgia factor. 

  Midway's compilation series, Arcade Treasures, has made its way to the PC in the form of Deluxe 
 Edition, which combines the games from Midway Arcade Treasures 2 and 3, both of which were previously 
 released on consoles. In addition, the first Mortal Kombat game has been added to the package, 
 making for 29 games in all. While some of the games run just fine, many others are so far off of 
 the accuracy mark that you almost wonder if someone deep within Midway or emulation-focused developer 
 Digital Eclipse actually hates these games or the people who love them.  

          There's a decent variety of games here, though the 2D ones hold up better than the polygonal 
 games.     

  Predictably, it's the older games that tend to work a little better. Stuff like Gauntlet II and 
 NARC are, for the most part, just fine. But when you start to get into the bigger games in the 
 package, it all falls apart. Many games are straight-up missing music. All of the Mortal Kombat 
 games play on in near silence, as if the developers decided to make you really focus on the fighting. 
 Pit Fighter is also missing its FM-synth-based tunes. In addition to the lack of music, the Mortal 
 Kombat games don't seem to run very well and they show off some occasional graphical glitches. 

  While this might be "Deluxe Edition," you're really getting a collection of two compilation packages. 
 You'll have to install Midway Arcade Treasures 2 and 3 separately, you'll need to run separate 
 executables to access the two products, and you'll need to have different discs in the drive to 
 successfully get past the StarForce security system built into both products. While all of this 
 isn't the end of the world, it's enough of a hassle to be worth noting.  

  While you can play most of these games with your keyboard, you're really going to want a gamepad 
 with at least one analog stick and six buttons on it to get the most out of the package. Unfortunately, 
 you'll have to configure control in each game separately. Considering the increasing spread of 
 dual-analog gamepads that look and act like a PlayStation 2 or Xbox 360 controller, it would have 
 been handy if the game had some presets specifically made for these sorts of controllers.  

          Can you rip dudes' heads off? Yes. Will it be as satisfying as it was in arcades? Nope. 
     

  Graphically, the games look enough like their arcade and console counterparts, but they're often 
 lacking definition. Some games seem blurry. And the 3D games found in the driving package, like 
 Hydro Thunder and San Francisco Rush 2049, haven't aged well at all, and these days they don't 
 look classic and nostalgic -- they just look ugly. The sound, more often than not, is just fine, 
 but the missing music is enough to send a Mortal Kombat fan into fits of rage.  

  This compilation certainly has potential. The list of names on the back of the box has plenty of 
 strong arcade classics. But the games come across in such an imperfect manner that the whole package 
 just feels very sloppy. You're better off looking elsewhere for your classic arcade fix.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (10 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Kragspire
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 20, 2008 12:27 am PT
Review:  Midway Arcade Treasures Deluxe is a completion of over 30 arcade games emulated on your PC. It 
 is actually volumes 2 and 3 of Midway Arcade Treasures bundled into one package. The only thing 
 that makes it worthy of the name deluxe is the addition of Mortal Kombat 1. However, I did get 
 my money's worth of games by only paying $10. 
  
  The titles worthy of noting include all three Mortal Kombat games, Total Carnage, Gauntlet 2, Pit 
 Fighter, Primal Rage, Rampage World Tour, Arch Rivals, and more racing games then you will ever 
 need. All of the games come with a near perfect translation. The only thing you might notice is 
 some missing sounds in games such as Mortal Kombat, but really do nothing to hamper the gameplay. 
 I was disappointed with some of the controls in games like APB, which make buying a gamepad with 
 analog a must. Others such as Arch Rivals, Mortal Kombat 1-3, and Xybots work quite well if you 
 use WASD along with the numpad for attacks.
  
  The collection comes packaged with plenty of extras. You can view interviews with the original 
 developers, pull up promotional posters and view some hilarious easter eggs. Each game keeps track 
 of your high scores, which can be viewed in the options for that particular game. Once again there 
 is no save feature, so plan accordingly if you want to play a game from start to finish. I didn't 
 find my game crashing at all this time compared to Midway Arcade Treasures 1, which is always a 
 plus. 
  
  The games are your typical brand of arcade entertainment, which might turn off some who want substance 
 and results. All of these games have absolutely no point to them. Rampage World Tour is a great 
 example of this, as after playing through 4 hours straight of it I was only rewarded with a short 
 outro. Also, the games lack something that was present the first time around, perhaps it is the 
 missing atmosphere of the arcade itself. All and all though, you can expect some entertaining classic 
 gaming that brings us back to the yesteryears of simply playing it, "just for fun". 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: verdugoRE4
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jan 23, 2007 7:15 am PT
Review:  The good: Decent selection of games, steady controls for the computer, comes with mortal kombat 
 1-3.
  
  The bad: Gameplay flaws, some dated games will not be found much fun anyway, chances are you won't 
 play all the games much.
  
  This is a complation of many OLD midway arcade games. The selection is interesting and sometimes 
 a lot of fun, and sometimes the games just suck. the gameplay controls are okay, but there is a 
 plus side to the entire thing. The first thing I thought of when I got this was MORTAL KOMBAT 1-3! 
 COOL! I CAN HAVE THEM ALL ON THE PC!
  
  And that did satisfy me, but the other games are also decent, but not all of the 29 arcade games 
 might be good.
  
  In short, buy this only if oyu are realy a fan of older games. But it wouldn't hurt to try this 
 game out. Only 18.99. Review made by verdugo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: linmukai
Rating: 3
Date: Oct 14, 2006 3:49 am PT
Review:  This could have been a lot better but as Jeff pointed out in the GS review, the compilation is 
 hurting all over the place, thanks to the slipshod way it was thrown together. You can patch the 
 sound back in to arcade treasures 2, and you can patch MK also with a file on the Midway support 
 page but nonetheless, this collection is simply nothing to write home about.
  
  I guess if these titles have nostalgic value for you and you can find this in some bargain bin 
 for cheap it wouldn't be so bad. Then again, it does have Starforce copy protection and there again, 
 is another reason to just pass this bad boy by. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xhero
Rating: 6.3
Date: Sep 1, 2006 8:26 pm PT
Review:  When this package was firsted released they forgot to put one of the cabnet files on the disk which 
 happened to contain all the sound files for midway arcade treasures 2. However they quickly released 
 a patch fixing this problem. The other big problem with mk2 was missing the random fighter select 
 and the abilty to fight smoke the hidden fighter on the portal level. This also was missing on 
 the consol version of midway arcade treasures 2. This has been patched as well making the mk2 on 
 the pc a true arcade version. The nice thing about having pc version of games is if they make mistakes 
 or omit something they can fix it unlike consol versions. However the other games such as the basketball 
 game run extreamly fast making it impossible to play. So really this package is only good for mortal 
 kombat fans and racing fans. The version of midway arcade 3 seems to be the same as the consol 
 version. So for us mk fans big score and i am hoping there will be a midway arcade treasures 4 
 containing umk3, mk4, killer instinst, and KI2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alkpaz
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 8, 2006 9:20 am PT
Review:  Well to the guy who gave it a 3.3 or such.. my Logitech gamepad works great on this.. The sound 
 issues and other oddities are fixed in the patch so no worries.. This collection is just fantastic.. 
 (maybe because I love MK (Mortal Kombat) Hydro Thunder is also there and plays well as does Primal 
 Rage, and Rampage (the original arcade hit.. not the NES version) I have no idea how this plays 
 on a console.. but for PCers who played console back in those days.. this is a "must have". The 
 interface is not "clunky" as the other reviewer stated but it does have Starforce protection.. 
 and as much as I have read of starforce I didn't have an issue with this in the game itself.. Long 
 Load times? heck no! I have had longer load times with my PS2.. lol All what that guy said is just 
 asinine and has no basis whatsoever.. Though I am playing this collection on a GAME PC and that 
 may be the reason it works perfectly.. my specs are: P4 3.6, 2GB RAM, SB Audigy 2 ZS, BFG 7800 
 512, and 500GB drive.. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: alohacrash
Rating: 3.1
Date: Apr 6, 2006 1:27 pm PT
Review:  As others have mentioned, the installation process for this collection is long and pointless. Since 
 this is not a single collection, but two - and apparently Midway couldn't be bothered to consolidate 
 the installation process - two installs are necessary. Be warned that installation includes the 
 dreaded Starforce copy protection system, which requires the system be re-started so some nefarious 
 background service can be started.
  
  What is particularly aggravating is that there is every indication that the Starforce disk check 
 is performed whenever the game menu is loaded, then the disk check is performed again when a game 
 from the collection is started. If you happen to want to play a game from the first collection, 
 then another from the second - this means four slow copy protection checks! I'm not sure whey they 
 were led to believe that these games were so wonderful that this excessive protection was necessary, 
 especially since Starforce can be circumvented anyway. This only serves to, you guessed it, punish 
 those who actually paid for the game like me. Congratulations Midway!
  
  My smallest complaint is that I found the interface to be strange, in that the conventional use 
 of the ESCape key to exit menus or back out of setting screens was ignored in favor of the Backspace 
 key. Here's a hint, developers, if you want to expand on convention that's great, but please don't 
 ignore it. Why not make both Backspace and ESC keys perform the same function?
  
  That aside, let's start a game. I was primarily interested in this box-o-games for the collection 
 of classic driving games such as Hard Drivin' and the Rush series. I was extremely dismayed to 
 find that Force Feedback is not supported in any of the games. This is especially aggravating since 
 the arcade versions of all these driving games all _did_ have force feedback. As if this wasn't 
 enough, analog control is not supported for any of the games in this collection. That means of 
 course that steering wheels, joysticks, and gamepad analog sticks can be left on the shelf. 
  
  Midway says: "Midway Arcade Treasures Deluxe does not have any support for third party controllers." 
 
  
  Unfortunately, these games were simply not designed for digital control, so when you press a key 
 to steer or floor the gas in Race Drivin', the immediate result is skidding and loss of control. 
 The whole point with the arcade versions of these games is that you had to ease onto the throttle 
 and drive with finesse, while stamping on the gas off the line or torquing the wheel all the way 
 to one side would spell disaster.
  
  So, without force feedback or analog control, a lot of these games are completely ruined. At least: 
 Hard Drivin', Hydro Thunder, Off Road Thunder, Race Drivin', S. T. U. N. Runner, San Francisco Rush 
 2049, San Francisco Rush the Rock: Alcatraz Edition, Spy Hunter II, Super Off Road with bonus Track-Pak! 
 can be crossed off the list.
  
  This leaves a number of 2D arcade ports, most notably the Mortal Kombat series, which seem playable, 
 but the fact that Midway doesn't support the use of controllers makes me suspect that you'll be 
 stuck trying to play Mortal Kombat with the keyboard while your gamepad gathers a little more dust. 
 I'm guessing those killer combinations are going to be a little hard to pull off without a stick 
 and a mess of buttons. Another hint for developers, PC gamers do use controllers, including the 
 steering wheel, mouse, joystick, flight throttle, yoke, stick shift, rudder pedals, and even a 
 gamepad. If you are going to port a game that supports keyboard only, I might suggest you stick 
 to Zork.
  
  Among the other games offered, there isn't much to get excited about, since most if not all of 
 these had been ported to any number of consoles and computers over the years, dating back to the 
 Atari 2600 (yep, Wizard of Wor) . 
  
  I think the real opportunity here was to offer some games that have never before been available 
 at home, and to do so in a manner which was faithful to their arcade counterparts. Computers and 
 game consoles are certainly up to the task of reproducing all of these games, even with a layer 
 of emulation to contend with. Still, I'm sad to say that this was an opportunity missed by Midway, 
 since making an arcade game that looks and sounds like the original is just not enough. It has 
 to play like it too, without a controller, that isn't going to happen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamerdude88
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 27, 2006 12:31 pm PT
Review:  A great value for people who liked these games in the arcade. Midway and Digital Eclipse have done 
 a great job with the Arcade Treasures series, and combining both Arcade Treasures 2 and 3 for the 
 PC is an awesome move for them. Also, they made it even better then console versions by adding 
 Midway's 1992 fighting game, the original Mortal Kombat. More games could have been added to the 
 mix, like more games on fighting, or racing, or sports games, but it's fine just the way it is. 
 It was supposed to be released along with the console versons of Arcade Treasures 3, but the delay 
 to earlier this year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JDLMON
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 22, 2006 1:36 am PT
Review:  Midway arcade Deluxe is a very good game. It has a great selection of games for only 19.99. It 
 runs bug free on my pc. If you like Mortal kombat, Rush, Hydro Thunder I recomend you get this 
 game is is a great collection of games. Oh yea Rampage world tour is also a fun game. And you can 
 use your Controller. Sorry but Midway still did not port Rush the rock over correctly. The music 
 on that game is still the cheep music. Other than that Every other games plays at it's fullest. 
 Some of the games could have been ported better but over all it is a great collection once again. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lauryn2000
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 21, 2006 12:48 pm PT
Review:  Old school players welcomed, if you played any of the classic coin operated games at the arcade 
 or owned on any of the consoles. This is the perfect edition to add to your pc gaming collection-29 
 classic games. It comes with a total of four disc, two for disc one and two for disc two, which hold 
 the second half of the classic games. It plays pretty much the same way you would on a console pad. Unless 
 your using your key board, it will take a few minutes to get use to using the keys, especially in 
 Mortal Kombat. The Mortal Kombat game is left intact combos, air juggles, and the multiple fatalities. A 
 must own for any old-school gamer who loved playing MK, Pit-Fighter, Rampage and Total Carnage. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: secily
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 17, 2006 11:35 am PT
Review:  this pc game compiliation rocks. it has the awesome game selections that you can buy for $19.99, 
 nothing can go wrong for what you buy and choose. you get 29 games and yes its 29 games dont let 
 what ebgames and gamestop say because the 29th game is mortal kombat 1.
  but i wish they did include ultimate mortal kombat 3 but they only included mk 1, mk 2, and mk 
 3 the original mk 3. but the other games are worth it including xybots and xenophobe, oh and all 
 the racing games. oh buy this game along with the first midway arcade treasures 1 game compiliation 
 for $19.
  this game is hands down worth it period. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
