-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: MiG Alley
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sim/migalley/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 29, 1999
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9.2
Critic Score: 8.6, 18 Review (s)
User Score: 8.3, 117 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Empire Interactive
Developer: Rowan Software
Genre: Jet Sim
Date:     Nov 30, 1999
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Dogfighting in MiG Alley is one of the best experiences a virtual pilot can hope for. 

 Flight simulations set in the Korean War are few and far between. Not only is it the "forgotten 
 war" in the history books, but the Korean conflict is rather neglected as a setting for flight 
 simulations, at least compared with games focusing on World War II or the latest hi-tech jet fighters. 
 The last Korean War game was Virgin Interactive's Sabre Ace, and the sooner it's forgotten, the 
 better. So perhaps it was to developer Rowan Software's advantage that the scarcity of Korean War 
 sims and the failure of Sabre Ace lowered gamers' expectations for MiG Alley. But as it turned 
 out, Rowan didn't need any such advantages, because MiG Alley is good enough to stand up to the 
 best flight simulations available simply on its own merits.  

 MiG Alley is very promising right from the start, as it provides flyable models of several different 
 planes including the F-80 Shooting Star, F-84 Thunderjet, and F-86 Sabre, as well as the F-51D 
 (also known as the P-51 Mustang) . In addition, the game even lets you jump in the cockpit of the 
 MiG-15 and MiG-15bis. Planes like the A-1 Skyraider and Yak-9 are also present although not flyable. 
 (Flyable -A, -E, and -F variants of the F-86 are included as well.) What makes MiG Alley's range 
 of aircraft so effective is the diversity of the flight models. Not only are the flight models 
 accurate, but they really bring out the differences between the various aircraft. The jets in MiG 
 Alley are all idiosyncratic, as each presents a different set of handling considerations, and MiG 
 Alley has done a brilliant job capturing these differences in performance. You'll learn to fly 
 and fight very differently in the F-86 Sabre than in the MiG-15, and savvy pilots will use their 
 aircraft's unique characteristics to their advantage.  

 A corollary to the accuracy of the flight models is the fact that the planes are quite difficult 
 to fly. Fortunately, Rowan provided enough options to make the learning curve less steep, and all 
 manner of in-flight effects, such as realistic flameouts and extra thrust, can be toggled on and 
 off for pilots just getting the feel of the jet. Novice pilots will spend a good deal of time flying 
 with "training wheels" before graduating to the real thing. When you are flying with all the realism 
 effects in force, MiG Alley is a challenging flight simulation by any standards. And that's even 
 without having to deal with people trying to shoot you down.  

 The graphics and sound in MiG Alley are mostly as good as the physics models. While the terrain 
 textures might tend toward brown, it's to be expected from a game that depicts Korea in the middle 
 of a war. The only problem with the graphics is at low altitudes, where terrain features become 
 rather indistinct and even interfere a little with ground targeting. Although the terrain in MiG 
 Alley isn't that great, the aircraft models look excellent and can even be customized with various 
 nose art to add to the already excellent atmosphere. The atmosphere is further heightened by the 
 game's great sound effects, which combine to provide a sense of immersion uncommon in most flight 
 simulations. The jet engine sounds are realistic and create the sense of being in an early jet 
 as opposed to some more modern machine with a hermetically sealed cockpit. The cockpits themselves, 
 while sparse, look beautiful and show off the relative antiquity of the planes. In-flight radio 
 chatter is plentiful, and the sound of gunfire is enough to rattle your teeth. MiG Alley includes 
 a 116-page manual that does an adequate job of explaining the game and providing most relevant 
 information in a legible manner. To complete the package, there is not only a keyboard card but 
 also a 46-page booklet detailing the differences between the MiG-15 and the F-86, which is actually 
 a reproduction of a 1952 RAF briefing paper. While it's of limited practical value, it makes for 
 interesting reading and underscores the fact that Rowan has imbued the entire simulation with a 
 surprisingly strong attention to time period, such that the game feels like a historical document 
 almost as much as a flight sim.  

 MiG Alley provides five great dynamic campaigns that let you fly the various US aircraft during 
 six months of war. Missions are preplanned in the first four campaigns, so that you can practice 
 for the Spring Offensive 1951 campaign. In the Spring Offensive, you have control of 112 aircraft, 
 96 of which can fly at any one time. You can either plot each mission yourself as the frontline 
 air commander or simply sketch out general objectives and let your command staff worry about the 
 details. The results of missions can have specific consequences: Knock out a bridge and the Communist 
 advance is slowed, but neglect the enemy airfields, and you'll find a swarm of MiGs on hand to 
 greet you on your way to bridge-busting duty. The dynamic nature of the campaigns makes MiG Alley 
 even more immersive and adds to the appeal of ground-attack "mud-mover" missions that flight sim 
 fans often find less interesting than dogfighting. In any event, in the Spring Offensive campaign 
 you can not only assign all the missions, but also choose which ones you want to fly. You can stick 
 with one particular aircraft or hop in any one you choose. Such flexibility is welcome for those 
 who want to stick to fighter jets but nevertheless want to sample the breadth the campaign has 
 to offer.  

 All of its features make MiG Alley a technically excellent simulation, and the campaigns give it 
 longevity. But the actual gameplay experience surpasses the game's technical accomplishments. Dogfighting 
 in MiG Alley is one of the best experiences a virtual pilot can hope for. While the speed of the 
 early jets featured in MiG Alley was incredible compared with their propeller-driven predecessors, 
 both generations of planes were limited to guns as their main weapon. A Sabre or MiG-15 pilot won't 
 be clicking through different radar modes; he'll be struggling to get on the enemy's six without 
 stalling, spinning, or flaming out, all the while knowing that one or two bursts from his opponent 
 will mean defeat. The artificial intelligence of MiG Alley's computer-controlled pilots is good 
 enough to invoke such fear and thus accomplishes something that is often missing in military flight 
 simulations. Even veteran pilots will be surprised at how intense the game's dogfights are.  

 
 You might wish MiG Alley had even more features. The F4U Corsair is missing, even though the aircraft 
 was ubiquitous in Korea. There are no aircraft carrier operations. However, MiG Alley does just 
 about everything you could possibly expect from a simulation that comes in a box instead of in 
 a multimillion-dollar professional trainer.  

 Once in a while, a simulation comes along that you can tell will be fondly remembered by dedicated 
 flight sim fans years later. Only a select group of games earns such a place in the hearts of fans 
 as demanding as those who use their computers to simulate air combat, and MiG Alley is now a part 
 of that group. It's certainly the best military flight sim of 1999, and you'll continue to hear 
 about it for years to come.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: XanderF
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 31, 2004 1:43 am PT
Review:  Mig Alley has recently been re-released in a combination pack with "Apache-Havoc", a simply delicious 
 combination to have!
  
  It's worth noting that the game still needs a patch that was made available to the user community 
 in order to get USB joysticks working in the game, available on the BDG group site:
  http://www. bob-ma. org/ 
  
  Mig Alley is a single-CD game, as many flight sims are. The re-release 
 has virtually no documentation, which is a shame, as the original had a great printed manual, as 
 well as a handbook that was a reprint of actual USAF documentation on the performance differences 
 between the USAF F-86 Sabre and Soviet Mig-15 - the two primary adversaries of this war.
  
  In the game, the player is given the choice of flying the campaign in a range of interesting USAF 
 aircraft. The Soviet Mig-15 is not available for campaign play, unfortunately.
  
  Still, the campaign is fully dynamic, you control the entire air war - what targets the B-29s should 
 hit, recon flights, fighter cover, etc. For missions with the player-flyable planes, you can hop 
 in the cockpit and handle it yourself. it's a lot of fun and worth checking out! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
