-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Might and Magic IX
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/mightandmagic9/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr 12, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.2
Critic Score: 5.6, 19 Review (s)
User Score: 6.6, 365 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: 3DO
Genre: Computer Role-Playing
Date:     Mar 29, 2002 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Might and Magic IX is the sort of game that can't please either longtime fans or series newcomers 
 looking to get a role-playing fix. 

 Might and Magic IX is like a bubblegum pop song from a group that's been on the charts too long. 
 It has all of the same ingredients that made the earlier releases so popular, but the excitement 
 is gone, and what once felt new and energetic is now old and tired. Even though New World Computing 
 built this game from the ground up with the use of Monolith's respected LithTech engine, the developer 
 also tried to re-create the past rather than truly revitalize the Might and Magic line. This divided 
 focus between old and new leaves us with a square-peg-in-a-round-hole sort of game that can't please 
 either longtime fans or series newcomers looking to get a role-playing fix. Combine that with shoddy 
 quality in everything from the monster models to the paper doll interface and a dreadfully slow 
 start, and you've got an end product unworthy of its prestigious name.           Character creation 
 is stripped down to the point of nonexistence.    

  The early stages seem more like a chore than a game, due in part to a stripped-down character-creation 
 process that's simple but too much so. You have only four playable races (human, elf, dwarf, and 
 half-orc) with which to fill the four party slots, along with a handful of face and voice types 
 and a paltry two character class options to choose from. In the beginning, you pick a path of might 
 or magic, becoming either a fighter or an initiate. Other classes are held back until much later, 
 when your characters have progressed high enough in level to accept promotion quests. A fighter 
 can become a crusader and then perhaps a ranger or paladin, while an initiate can advance to the 
 position of scholar and later maybe a mage or lich. There are a total of 12 class options, though 
 choice is restricted based on the path of advancement that you select. Characters can be further 
 customized with skills, though once again, there are few options at the start of the game. Just 
 two skills can be selected from a small pool of options, while two more are predetermined by your 
 choice of class. The same goes for spells. Choice explodes from the virtually nonexistent only 
 long after the beginning of the game. Aside from changing race or class, there is no way to alter 
 the default numbers for the six basic character attributes -- might, magic, endurance, accuracy, 
 speed, and luck.   

  Another major contributor to this dull opening is that you begin stranded in the land of Chedian 
 without a clue. There is no back story, no driving force behind the beginning of the game. After 
 an opening cinematic that comes off like  Sesame Street  doing a "best of times, worst of times" 
 shtick and tells you precisely nothing about the game, you are dropped on what's presumably your 
 island home. You speak to an old man whom your entire party calls "Grandpa" for no stated reason, 
 read some scrolls about the game interface, hop on a boat for lands unknown, get shipwrecked, and 
 meet up with a troll woman named Yrsa who anoints you the saviors of the world after you kill a 
 few dragonflies. Seriously. Making matters even worse, you don't care about anything that Yrsa 
 tells you because unless you've read the manual, you have no background information about the land 
 and peoples you're about to spend 100 hours of game time saving. The whole introduction is a jumbled 
 mess of names and events and dates that does more to confuse you than provide you with a good reason 
 to continue playing.           Blocky monster models make melee combat a letdown.    

  Expect to feel bewildered for some time after. Aspects of the game design seem to have been put 
 in place for the sole purpose of disorienting the player. Although the main plot soon comes into 
 focus -- you have to unite the six warring clans of Chedian so that they may face the threat of Tamur 
 Leng and his feared Beldonian Hordes -- everything that surrounds it stays fuzzy. It shouldn't be 
 this way, because the game consists of traveling to the capital cities of each clan and carrying 
 out rudimentary quests that involve little more than killing a lot of monsters and picking up the 
 sacks of gold that they leave behind (and everything leaves behind a sack in this game -- even bats) . 
 Each town features citizens who require help finding lost objects, obtaining items that they desperately 
 need, and so on, along with chieftains called jarls who assign slightly more interesting objectives, 
 such as clearing out monster infestations, delivering letters to fellow jarls, and slaying particular 
 foes. Role Playing 101, right? Not exactly. While New World never strays from this old-school format, 
 the company has complicated matters by providing little information when quests are assigned. You 
 often spend more time searching for the place you've been asked to visit than actually doing the 
 job. The assignee says what he or she needs, mentions a locale that you've typically never heard 
 of, and then leaves you on your own to explore.   

  It doesn't get any easier after you stumble upon a quest location. Even though the mouse-driven 
 interface (left-click for a melee strike, right-click for a ranged weapon or spell) makes it easy 
 to slash through the hordes of monsters found everywhere, it is often difficult to figure out where 
 you are when the dust settles after combat. Most quest locations have a unique look, but that unique 
 appearance is marred by the designers' usage of the same architecture over and over again within 
 each location. Along with mirror-image corridors that transform many buildings and dungeons into 
 mazes, whole rooms are repeated right down to the furnishings and complement of monsters. You often 
 find yourself wondering if you are going in circles or have activated some kind of teleportation 
 trap.    

 Things are often just as confusing in town. NPCs with the ability to provide skill training and 
 class quests wander the streets aimlessly and don't look any different than the average commoner. 
 So unless you share the curious logic that led New World to make a bartender the only one who can 
 promote you from mercenary to assassin, you need to speak with everyone you meet. And you're never 
 sure when an NPC will be around to talk to. Some pay attention to the virtual clock that tracks 
 the time and then shut down at the end of each day, while others are ready for business all night 
 long. Either way, the people remain present, so you get children playing in the street at three 
 in the morning and shopkeepers offering to take your business and then telling you that they're 
 closed when you take them up on it.           Now this is an attack of the clones.    

  There is an automap function, but it does almost nothing to clear these issues up. You can't make 
 notes on it and you can't scroll it, and extra lines make it impossible to determine where walls 
 really are. Plus, many vital features are either missing or so poorly drawn that you can't make 
 them out. Ladders and staircases, for example, are marked with squiggles that could mean anything, 
 if they're marked at all. Some maps show features that aren't actually there.   

  Not surprisingly, problems like these take a toll on the atmosphere. Moving through a succession 
 of chambers that all look the same bolsters your suspension of disbelief as effectively as the 
 painted plywood that community theater groups use for scenery. Poor graphical quality doesn't help 
 much either. Although New World used the LithTech engine to give Might and Magic IX a true 3D world 
 for the first time, the series doesn't look any better than it did three years ago. You might even 
 say that it looks worse. The preceding three Might and Magic games boasted fairly good visuals, 
 and if you forgave them for being a couple of years out of style, the current one is ugly by any 
 standard of measurement.   

  Part of the problem is the default 800x600 resolution (which can be changed by manually editing 
 the autoexec. cfg file, although higher resolutions wreak havoc with text and menu size and location) , 
 though much of the blame has to be laid on poor programming and artwork. Textures are dark and 
 blurry, making it hard to locate switches and objects on walls. Rooms are either bare or sparsely 
 furnished. Monster and NPC models seem more like roughed-in placeholders than finished products. 
 Furthering this effect is the use of just three or four NPC face types per sex and race. You'll 
 talk to what seems to be the same person over and over again. There isn't even a thinly veiled 
 illusion of variety here. In one town, the side-by-side armor and weaponry shops are run by what 
 looks to be the same bearded merchant. Move from one directly to the other, and your first thought 
 is "How'd you get over here so fast?" This issue hits ludicrous heights in combat with human opponents, 
 as you seem to be mobbed by gangs of clones. There is little more diversity in the monster ranks. 
 Each quest location features just two or three enemy types that you kill again and again from the 
 moment you enter until the moment you leave. One spot might feature dragonflies, another imps, 
 another zombies, and so on. Regardless of the creature type, you're certain to be sick of it by 
 the time you reach the midway point of each quest.   

  The engine also does a poor job of providing feedback while adventuring. Although the first-person 
 perspective should involve you in your surroundings more effectively than the isometric third-person 
 angle used in most role-playing games these days, the effect is actually the reverse. Unless you're 
 firing spells or missiles, attacks are not represented onscreen. Your only indication of making 
 an attack is a swoosh sound and a menu box that opens in the bottom center of the screen to inform 
 you of hits, damage totals, and misses. Blood splatter is an option, but yours is the only blood 
 to actually do any splattering, and it seems to do so only when ranged weapons are employed against 
 your party. Enemies show no sign of injury until they abruptly collapse to the ground. The interface 
 is also light on feedback. The paper doll system for every character has just one picture to represent 
 each class and sex. All male fighters, for example, are portrayed by the same drawing of a bearded 
 dwarf. These images change only when you take up new classes during the course of the game, so 
 you never get to see your characters in new armor or wielding new weapons.           Missing automap 
 features will have you reaching for graph paper.    

  Yet despite all these negatives, Might and Magic IX somehow builds momentum as it goes. After you 
 get a good 15 hours into playing, the addictive acts of solving quests and leveling up take on 
 a life of their own apart from the stillborn story and setting. Unlike in the beginning of the 
 game, where you're presented with few options, you can finally start fine-tuning your characters 
 by giving them specific classes and boosting them in certain skills. While the game never evolves 
 into anything more than a straightforward dungeon crawl, it does develop an energy that can carry 
 you along to the conclusion. Quests assume more importance as you work to unite the clans, and 
 monsters get more interesting, as do the magical items and spells you acquire. The dreary sewer 
 of Beet Hoven at the start of the game, for instance, is nothing at all representative of the spooky 
 ruined temples and crypts you'll explore later. Even the musical score progresses from the dreary 
 and repetitive to a number of atmospheric tunes that do a much better job of establishing a mood. 
   

  Of course, the catch is that you have to dedicate a lot of time to the game before the interesting 
 stuff shows up. Which probably isn't likely, considering the slow start and number of flaws that 
 have to be overlooked for hours in the beginning. And even if you do get caught up in playing, 
 there is little here that's truly memorable. Unlike the way that people still rhapsodize over the 
 likes of old pop songs, it's a safe bet that nobody will ever wax nostalgic about Might and Magic 
 IX.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (12 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: KingLim
Rating: 4.9
Date: Jun 26, 2007 7:18 pm PT
Review:  I have nothing good to say about this supposedly last installation of the Might &amp; Magic series 
 other that it did quite a commendable effort of converting the old 2D look to a fully 3D environment. 
 But even so, the characters look ugly. Texture mapping is very unpolished and messy which defeats 
 the purpose of making Might and Magic 3D.
  
  Apart from the tech aspect, the gameplay also doesn't live up to its standard from M&amp; M 7. A 
 lot of unique stuff like visiting shrines and finding rare training masters are gone and thus I 
 think that's how it lost its appeal. I got so bored with it not even halfway and had to trudge 
 through the rest using a walkthrough, and the anti-climax ending is even more blood-spewing. I 
 don't want to spoil it, but I guess you won't even bother to play till that stage.
  
  KingLim 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talon124
Rating: 1.8
Date: Mar 31, 2007 10:57 am PT
Review:  Time to get some dirt on this game. Where to start..... hmmmm..... aww i can't find any good comments 
 for this game so lets go negative. The graphics if stared at long enough may make your eyes bleed 
 and screw up ppl minds (makes them confuse) The sound... w8 i forgot was there even sound in this??? 
 Gameplay.... well it would be that bad if u could c the weapon u were using and u weren't in a 
 party but just going solo. But it wasn't like that. Gameplay= worse than watching paint dry, nah 
 that is too harsh, watching different colours of paint is a better description. Honestly u can't 
 call this a game, more like a pointless dream. There is no point in playing this game. Get Elder 
 Scrolls instead!!! the Elder Scrolls r fun and detailed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmso12
Rating: 5.8
Date: Dec 23, 2006 1:11 pm PT
Review:  I suppose that this game has now been relegated to the bottom of the bargain bin, and anyone who 
 would have bought this out of expectation from the earlier series, or out of curiosity for use 
 of a 3-d engine, has already uninstalled and tossed this lemon.
  
  the keyword is BORING. Very little is happening in the world, the monsters are clunky and have 
 crappy AI, and the skill system has been stripped down of all the things that use to make the Might 
 and Magic series fun. What made the last MM games good were the quests and palces to discover, 
 the ability to choose sides (at least in MM 7) , as well as the goal of leveling up so you could 
 achieve mastery of whatever disciplines (e. g. Air Magic for flying) . Might and Magic 8 was fun 
 but things were starting to fall apart as they ditched traditional chachter classes in favor of 
 some novel ones that worked in some cases, not in others.
  
  Bottom line is that with the emptiness of the game world, and the lack of a decent storyline, this 
 game was rushed out and suffers for it.
  
  I really liked Might and Magic 1 - 8 - I layed and finished every one. If they would have stuck 
 with what they knew worked, at least 3D0 wouldn't have alienated its fan base. This game felt like 
 a sell-out for 3-D fanboys (and girls) who value graphics over gameplay.
  
  At least the game wasn't broken when it was shipped - the game PLAYS ok. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: can0of0cheese
Rating: 4.2
Date: Nov 4, 2006 8:05 am PT
Review:  This game is one of the worst games im sad to say ive finished.
  First of all it is a clone war, you will meet and greet the same people over and over again. The 
 same goes for rooms, walls, decoration, foes and ... well everything.
  
  Second the bugs outnumber the whole human race even though most of them are minor things like random 
 npcs attack you for no reason whatsoever or the one where monster don't see you when you stand 
 infront of them. The mayor bugs are not to be taken lightly, i seem to remember a keep in the beginning 
 of the game. The mission was like den of evil in diablo only when every monster was dead the quest 
 log didnt react. So there never came any secret stairway opening or such, i returned later when 
 the monsters had respawned and then only then it said complete.
  
  Third it makes no sense, few thing in this game does. Like the time a big uber monster burst out 
 of jail and killed the town guard the moment i entered. Or when i was upgraded to assassin by some 
 random bartender.
  Maybe when i rode a wooden horse through a solid stone wall and the wall exploded reveling a path 
 full of monsters.
  Or my absolute favorite when i walked around in a pentagram lightning it upp only to find that 
 nothing happened, in my rage i threw myself of a cliff and died only to be find my self in some 
 kind of path between earth and heaven full of monsters. I have more examples but it would take 
 all day.
  
  But still there are lots of fun too like the leveling system (after a long while you get skill 
 points) . The magic part is fun too, and like well some chars look really ugly thats funny i guess. 
 It's funny how i was told i should kill a dragon to be mayor and when i killed it nobody seemed 
 to care even though i got like a you-killed-a-dragon card. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mm_coady
Rating: 4.1
Date: Sep 24, 2006 7:55 am PT
Review:  This game seriously dissapointed me. I bought is as I am a HUGE Fan of the series ( I actually 
 beat six, And I'm pretty proud of that) . But this game has to make me say what were they thinking 
 The change that bothered me the most was the character interphace. One of the funnest parts of 
 playing MM was taking your guys from zeros to heros sooo cliche and pimpin them out baller style 
 was great. In short, this addition to the series makes me want to sick my finger in an electrical 
 socket. I need eight more words to post this review. There we go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FriendBear
Rating: 2.6
Date: Sep 14, 2006 12:36 am PT
Review:  I actually like this game even though i'm giving it a pretty harsh review, its the sort of game 
 that when it works, its a pretty decent game and its fun too. However, once the bugs pop up it 
 becomes a nightmare to play and quite often forced restarts become a reality, especially in certain 
 places where there are very well known bugs, and sometimes its almost impossible to bypass since 
 the game was never actually 'finished' as 3DO went bankrupt, some of the major bugs are the type 
 that can literally kill the game for instance....
  
  I decided to re-install the game on my new computer since I haven't played it in years and needed 
 a change of pace from more current rpgs, played up until the Anskram Keep and unfortuntely forgeting 
 to install the patches feel to the infamous game stopping bug there with the final imp and stairwell 
 not appearing and after upgrading to 1.2 I can't really be bothered to restart the game again, 
 and the unofficial patch 1.3 removes my mouse cursor..... too many problems kills this game. After 
 another restart and finally getting the patches to install properly I get past the keep problems, 
 however I run into one of the other major bugs which even with the TELF1.3 patches can be a nightmare 
 to pass, and thats trying to get the Capstone of order which is needed later in the game, many 
 times the game would crash, or not give me the capstone even after completing the mini-games, without 
 the capstone you can't continue the story slightly later in the game, so I pretty much gave up 
 on this game, and I suggest anyone who reads this review and is for some strange reason thinking 
 of buying MM9, I suggest you don't, well.... if its a few bucks then maybe, but I would strongly 
 suggest getting MM6, thats one of the best in the series.
  
  I will console myself that I have completed it once on my older computer and this game is a pretty 
 good game but was an unfortunate casualty of its parent companies death.
  
  All my hopes lie with Dark Messiah, thats going to rock. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scotch69
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 5, 2006 12:51 pm PT
Review:  I was looking forward to playing the M&M IX despite the poor reactions from both critics and game 
 players. I was disappointed to find out for myself that they were right. First off, you can annotate 
 anything on the map. There is not much more that is annoying to waste time looking for a particular 
 store or person to advance skills. The gameplay was average at best and bad at worst. The quests 
 were okay, but I was looking forward to the end. The dumbest part was the only dragon to fight 
 had 37000 hit points and at least for me, impossible to kill. Anyway, the music was good and varied, 
 so this made it a little more tolerable to be lost in town for the fifth time looking to increase 
 my magic and fighting skills. Hopefully someone else can pick up the torch and improve the game-play 
 and make the series worth playing again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Daveo1337
Rating: 5.7
Date: Apr 5, 2006 1:57 pm PT
Review:  3DO had promise, back in the day. Might and Magic VI was amazing, VII was great, and VIII was pretty 
 fun, but the engine started to show its age after its third consecutive use.
  
  Fans of the series were excited to hear that the LithTech engine by Monolith was being used, as 
 it worked very well with No One Lives Forever.
  
  The main problem with the series after VI, moderately noticeable in VII and a little more apparent 
 in VIII, was that the games showed signs of being rushed. IX looks like it was released halfway 
 through development. Really. There are not many signs of polish or refinement to be found anywhere.
 
  
  The same models are recycled for humans over and over again. While that was true in previous games 
 for humanoids, the NPCs you dealt with weren't actually part of the game world, and humanoid opponents 
 at least had decent and distinctive artwork. A lot of models look okay but many textures are just 
 horrible.
  
  In some areas the game seems to have regressed. Gone are many character development options. The 
 inventory display has gotten worse... even MM6 showed how your new items looked on your person. 
 
  
  There are some improvements, though. The AI isn't quite as mindless as it used to be, and in some 
 respects the interface is a little better. They attempted making a more seamless world, where shops 
 and houses are part of the map proper, but they didn't seem to have enough time to flesh everything 
 out or actually make them feel alive.
  
  However, it is very hard for me to find a silver lining on this particular cloud. MMIX is a wonderful 
 example of what not to do in designing a game. It is a sad testament to the eventual decline of 
 both 3DO and New World Computing, where they ran pretty much all of their franchises into the ground 
 in a desperate grab for any financial gain that could delay their inevitable end.
  
  It is, however, decent at keeping rings from forming on a wooden desk or coffee table, though there 
 are cheaper alternatives when looking for coasters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Geosapient
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jan 11, 2006 8:01 pm PT
Review:  Might & Magic IX is a decent game. I've gone through the game multiple times now. Each time using 
 a different party. The classes are relatively balanced. Each time I go through the game (regardless 
 of party) I end up at the Training Hall outside Thjorgard at the same time (beginning of May) . 
 Mages may seem to make the game easier due to spell power but as power grows so does the cost of 
 the spell.
  
  The main story is pretty good (although somewhat cliche) with even the expected plot twist being 
 somewhat unpredicted. The main story consists of you (the standard group of heroes who don't realize 
 it yet) uniting the clans of Chedian to battle against the force that marches from the west. After 
 you unite the clans the story takes an interesting turn. You'll learn of the hand that the Gods 
 play in the land of Chedian. Meet with them, quest for them and do battle against them.
  
  The graphics are decent, also. The people models look pretty good except their faces look like 
 paper masks glued onto a featureless doll. The wilderness looks excellent. The arcitecture is pretty 
 much standard with almost everything having sharp angles with hardly any texture.
  
  The color could have used improvement. Everything seems to be grey or brown (it may not be as severe 
 as I make it sound because I am color blind) and just bland. I like more vivid coloring in the 
 games that I play (even if I don't see the color intended) .
  
  Some of the side quests are fairly ridiculous. Imagine working your way through sewers to find 
 a persons manuscript. How did the papers end up in the sewer? What kind of magic is it imbued with 
 that kept the paper from disintegrating in the waste filled water that runs beneath a city? An 
 almost better question would be, "why do they have a sewer if no one has a toilet or chamber pot?", 
 but that's not really quest related.
  
  All in all the main story is pretty good and it has decent graphics. The classes are pretty well 
 balanced. The overall experience was good but it could have been better. I feel that this game 
 is definitly worth at least one play through. Had this game not had the Might & Magic title attached 
 to it I'd probably have given a better score and I imagine that other fans wouldn't have judged 
 it as harshly either. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rogerwaterz
Rating: 7.2
Date: Dec 31, 2005 7:39 am PT
Review:  As a hardcore Might and Magic fan, I tend to apreciate this kind of RPG that unfourtunatly, seems 
 to be lost in time. This kind of old fashioned approach to gaming is extremely addictive, and enough 
 so that you can work past the bad graphics. It may seem like a budget game if you just picked it 
 up and played it, but the game playes surprisingly well. Characters and monsters are well balanced, 
 and I never find myself short of a fight. There is a lot of action, perhaps too much at times, 
 but the game is fun, nonetheless. This game is definitly not for people who want instant gratifacation 
 from a game, which is unfourtunatly, alot of people, but if you want a game that you can play for 
 hours on end, this is one for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Govvy
Rating: 4.8
Date: Aug 19, 2005 10:46 pm PT
Review:  Upon loading up the game you get an intro of a scrolling scroll! With a voice over of nun other 
 than, General MaTark from Star Trek DS9. If you didnt know, he is the Klingon with one eye! So 
 the scrolling intro tells us absolutely nothing about the storyline. Leaving you with a, So whats 
 going on? feel!
  
  Now you are in a game that has a totally new might and magic engine and graphics that seem okay 
 for a while. Until you start to meet characters and see more square shapes than you want too.
 
  
  After doing the tutorial to help get a feel for the new look you are then shipped wrecked on the 
 Isle of Ashes which is where you meet Yaris the Trool, who tells you to unit the six clans.
  
  Finding a rather pitiful sorry excuse of a storyline and then those very lame cut-scenes. I 
 was starting to wonder how I got the game! I did how ever have to upgrade a few times to get rid 
 of the constant crashing and loads of bugs. Because with the kind of quality that 3DO left this 
 in on release you can half understand why they might have gone bankrupt! 
  
  The sound was up to scratch and the game played well when it was running, spells had their effects 
 but I wasnt sure if they became two powerful too soon. Because it started to get really easy very 
 quickly and my part was only at level 40! They could take on greater demons on their own! Well, 
 my Mage could anyway, all I needed to do was select Poison Cloud and point it at the flood and 
 it would do loads of damage. 
  
  Sadly there were still too many bugs and the storyline was rather lame showing lack of effort from 
 the team that created Might and Magic 9. Cut-scenes where terrible and had no depth or class like 
 the previous games in the series. I believe all together I played about 40 to 50 hours worth even 
 know I had the game for a while. I have been very dissatisfied and this game can stay in my collection, 
 but in the dust pile!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: vastb005
Rating: 4.3
Date: Oct 21, 2004 11:41 am PT
Review:  This was a long awaited game for Might and Magic series fans and probably for that reason doubly 
 disappointing. Very buggy, the first and only patch published at the same time as the game failed 
 to resolve many issues and with the demise of 3DO any chance of redeeming this game with a new 
 patch was gone forever. 
  Trying hard to get into the 2D market too quickly resulted in a poor graphic rendition which can 
 only be described as wooden. 
  There was a reasonable story line and the quests we all love to solve but I feel this was wasted. 
 If the same story, quests etc had been incorporated into the well loved existing Might and Magic 
 formula I feel this would have had more success.
  Very disappointing. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
