-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Might and Magic VI: The Mandate of Heaven
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/mightandmagic6themoh/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May 22, 1998
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9.1
Critic Score: 8.5, 6 Review (s)
User Score: 8.9, 792 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: 3DO
Developer: New World Comp.
Genre: Computer Role-Playing
Date:     Apr 30, 1998 &raquo;  

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Might and Magic VI is a classically designed role-playing game that features both a huge gaming 
 world and lots of attention to detail. 

 New World Computing's classic Might and Magic games helped to define the subgenre that grizzled 
 old RPG grognards now affectionately refer to as "traditional style" role-playing games. All of 
 the previous Might and Magic role-playing games were set in expansive gaming worlds, filled with 
 exotic locations, tomes of spells, armies of enemy types, and hoards of magic items. But during 
 the past couple of years, such traditional role-playing games have been rarer than orcs in Denver. 
 While other gaming companies have shied away from such classic game design, New World Computing 
 has rebelled against this recent trend by creating a truly addictive role-playing game that is 
 both faithful to the spirit of the venerable series and innovative in its own right.  

 The game takes place in the world of Enroth, a setting that will be familiar to veterans of the 
 Heroes of Might and Magic spin-off strategy games. Good King Roland was apparently victorious in 
 his battles with evil old Archibald, only to have his united lands fall prey to the ravages of 
 an invasion of devils. When the King disappears after encountering the devilish horde, the ineffectual 
 child prince Nicolai assumes control of the Kingdom. Your humble party of four adventurers has 
 the onerous task of gaining the gratitude of the Kingdom's regional leaders, parlaying with a cryptic, 
 omniscient Oracle in order to unravel the mystery behind Roland's disappearance and, along the 
 way, carving a destructive path through a hellish legion of enemies. Welcome to the medieval jungle. 

 As with previous games in the series, Might and Magic VI is a first-person-perspective party-based 
 game. In a minor break from Might and Magic tradition, all of your characters are human (elves 
 need not apply) , and there are only six available character classes. There are knights, sorcerers, 
 and clerics, which are fairly standard fantasy role-playing game fare, and paladins (knight/cleric) , 
 archers (knight/sorcerer) , and druids (sorcerer/cleric) , which are essentially multi-classed derivatives 
 of the initial three classes. While you can choose from a variety of digitized portraits to represent 
 your characters and tinker with their initial attributes and skills, all of the character classes 
 are preset. In another break from recent gaming trends, you won't be able to develop characters 
 that are capable of mastering all trades, as there is a limited number of skills available to each 
 character class. In other words, don't expect to be parading around with a party of plate armor-clad, 
 halberd-swinging Arch-Mages.  

 Far more interesting is the game's character development system. Stomping monsters and completing 
 quests will net your characters experience points. Gain enough experience points, and you'll be 
 able to raise the levels of your characters, provided that you hook up with a capable trainer and 
 have a few spare coins. With each increase in level, a character will gain a handful of points 
 that can be used to increase that character's skills. Gain enough expertise in a particular skill, 
 and you can train to become an expert and then a master in that skill, acquiring additional abilities 
 in the process. Since there are dozens of quests in the game (most of which have relatively basic 
 objectives such as, "clear out the evil critter nest/get my shiny bauble back from the evil critter 
 nest") and even more monster types to squish (I lost track around 150) , you'll be getting a lot 
 of experience points in this game, which means you'll have plenty of opportunities to allocate 
 skill points to improve your characters. Complete a few special quests for the ornery Regional 
 Lords, and your characters can be elevated within their respective classes, from clerics to priests 
 and then high priests, etc. It's an extremely rewarding system, as you constantly get the opportunity 
 to strengthen your characters, and even late in the game, level advancement is rapid.  

 Unlike prior Might and Magic games, The Mandate of Heaven features freely scrolling, and often rolling, 
 terrain. Gameplay generally occurs in real time, but you can make it turn-based at any point. It's 
 a hybrid system that really offers the best of both worlds, allowing you to either hurl arrows 
 or spells at enemies from a distance while dodging counterattacks or resolve the affair in more 
 tactical, turn-based combat. While both options are always available, turn-based combat is often 
 the only practicable manner to fight battles, which frequently involve dozens of enemies. Like 
 many role-playing games (actually, like most games of all genres, other than those "Mysty" pseudo-interactive 
 screen savers) Might and Magic VI is quite combat intensive. What sets Might and Magic VI apart 
 from other games, however, is the sheer size of some of the battles. It's not uncommon to have 
 a mini-army of monsters charging at you, flinging arrows and lightning bolts at you. Might and 
 Magic VI's turn-based interface is more than up to the challenge of handling these engagements, 
 and there's nothing quite as satisfying as casting a Meteor Shower from a hilltop, watching fireballs 
 come from the sky to smite a pack of enemies. Some of the explosions from the more destructive 
 spells will toss your targets back or up in the air, reminiscent of a pack of Doom imps being smacked 
 by a rocket-launched blast. But make no mistake, Might and Magic VI is at its heart very much a 
 turn-based tactical role-playing game and not an action game. Still, it's enjoyable to watch those 
 Death Knights go boom....  

 The graphics in Might and Magic VI are the best yet seen in a 3D first-person-perspective role-playing 
 game. At one point in the game's development, hardware support for 3D graphics cards was contemplated, 
 which certainly would have been welcome. But even without 3D acceleration, the graphics are generally 
 crisp and clear, with a minimum of pixelation. Like prior games in the series, the graphics are 
 also very colorful, which takes a while to get used to for those of us accustomed to somewhat more 
 realistic, but considerably more dreary, depictions of our fantasy gaming worlds. Although Might 
 and Magic VI uses two separate graphics engines, one for dungeons and one for outdoor locations, 
 they integrate seamlessly. All of the nonplayer characters, enemies, and items are represented 
 by flat 2D "sprites," as opposed to the 3D polygonal representations seen in action games like 
 Tomb Raider and Quake. The sprites in Might and Magic VI are often very detailed, and monsters 
 that you would intuitively think should tower above your characters, like titans and dragons, are 
 suitably huge. The sprites in Might and Magic VI actually have substance as well - you can't just 
 saunter right through NPCs and trees as you could in Bethesda Softworks' Daggerfall. But it's somewhat 
 disappointing that there is only a couple of different nonplayer character icons, degenerating 
 cities and towns into a swarm of largely identical faceless figures. Might and Magic goes Manhattan. 

 My initial opinion of the graphics was lukewarm, and although I was ultimately genuinely surprised 
 by how much I grew to like the graphics, they are still the one aspect of Might and Magic VI that 
 is most likely to disappoint gamers. In an age when action games continue to push the envelope 
 by providing increasingly more impressive graphics, Might and Magic VI's 3D graphics look understandably 
 outdated. Not to say that there isn't some graphical eye candy: Dynamic lighting is used to good 
 effect (especially when casting spells) ; the interiors of buildings are displayed on separate noninteractive 
 screens that universally look good (and also include lighting effects) ; there's an excellent "resting" 
 screen that vividly displays the timely rising and setting of the sun and moon; and there are some 
 well-done weather effects. Once your characters acquire the ability to fly, you'll really begin 
 to appreciate the artistic lay of the land, as you travel over mountain ranges, lakes, frozen wastes, 
 and other varied terrain.  

 One of the best things about Might and Magic VI is that Enroth was clearly crafted with a lot of 
 care and attention to detail. Although the game is huge, taking well over 100 hours to complete, 
 each of the towns and dungeons was individually designed. For perhaps the first time ever in a 
 role-playing game, dungeon layouts are consistently logical and yet varied in appearance. I also 
 like the fact that no matter how powerful you become, you'll still occasionally run into very weak 
 creatures when the setting is appropriate - wander into some sewers, and you'll see some rats, 
 not just dozens of Supreme Titans because "you're powerful enough to fight them now." Enemies are 
 also grouped together logically - no more running into a goblin in one room, next to a Medusa Enchantress, 
 next to a specter, next to a Grand Druid, etc., ruining the immersiveness of the setting.  

 There are tons of other little details that make Might and Magic VI special. You can fly like 
 a Spitfire through the air and fire arrows at packs of monsters - miss them as they run by a stream, 
 and your arrows will splash into the water. Go into a few too many shops without purchasing or 
 selling anything, and you'll start to be rebuked by their keepers: "See ya, tightwad!" Walk into 
 the right thieves' guild, and you'll be confronted with a Monty Python-esque "nudge, nudge, know 
 what I mean, know what I mean...." knowing glance from the trainer. A big metallic-looking guy 
 loaded with vicious-looking swords who looks like a walking Ginsu knife is appropriately labeled 
 a Cuisinart. There are some excellent sound effects as well - shoot a harpy out of the sky, and 
 you'll be treated to the sound of it falling like a crumpled bird. Gargoyles shatter into pebbles. 
 The sound of your footsteps reflects the nature of the ground you're walking on, whether it's hardened 
 rock, fresh snow, or a damp beach. Music isn't used a great deal in the game, but it works well 
 when it appears.  

 Might and Magic VI has both an automatic note taker and an automap function, largely allowing you 
 to focus on playing the game instead of being relegated to a woeful "scribe character," manually 
 taking pages and pages of notes, as in other role-playing games. Neither function works perfectly 
 - the automap doesn't work well in complex dungeons with a lot of different levels, and it gets 
 very blocky when "zoomed in," and the note taker doesn't keep track of some key information like 
 the location of trainers. Still, both are welcome tools.  

 There are a few other minor disappointments. The interface is non-customizable, so you're stuck 
 using the default key settings even if you find them inconvenient. Although it is basically a keyboard-controlled 
 game, you still have to occasionally use the mouse, which is a bit cumbersome. The different geographical 
 regions in the game don't quite integrate fully, meaning you'll occasionally be unable to loot 
 the bodies of enemies that wandered outside of your current region. The main window for depicting 
 the 3D gaming world is quite small, and even though there are hotkeys for all of the functions 
 you need, there is surprisingly no "full screen" mode. The cutscene introduction is well done, 
 but it feels somewhat disconnected from the rest of the game, and the introductory dialogue seems 
 like it was scripted after the cutscene was already completed. Your interaction with the nonplayer 
 characters wandering around town is quite limited, although you can get such NPCs to tag along 
 to grant your party additional abilities, but such NPCs won't otherwise directly participate in 
 the game. You might also be disappointed with the digitized character portraits, which sometimes 
 don't seem to fit in with the other animated graphics. The voice acting of your characters is also 
 of mixed quality, although I generally enjoyed it. Each of the characters has his own distinct 
 expressions ("Chalk up another for the big guy!") , which is another nice touch.  

 There are also a few bugs and graphical quirks. There are occasional clipping errors, which allow 
 you to see, or even interact with, objects through walls. Certain spells, like Meteor Shower will 
 occasionally not complete their animations if they are cast on an enemy who is on sloped terrain, 
 causing the game to hang. Switch the game from real-time mode to turn-based while your characters 
 are on inclined terrain, and you'll gradually trickle down the incline (as will monsters similarly 
 placed) . Some spells don't seem to work as intended - I was never able to even momentarily "Stun" 
 the most ineffectual of enemies. Enemy AI is generally quite challenging - a pack of critters won't 
 hesitate to try to surround your party - but it is still too easy to get your opponents trapped 
 behind objects. Often a conveniently placed chair or chest becomes your characters' best friend, 
 as it can render an otherwise challenging foe quite impotent, as you delicately fling arrow after 
 arrow into your paralyzed enemy's head.  

 But such quirks and bugs are really quite trivial. Overall, Might and Magic VI is a remarkably stable 
 game - one of the most bug-free role-playing games in years. Even more importantly, it's tremendously 
 addictive. There always seems to be one more quest you just have to complete, one more skill you 
 have to elevate to mastery, one more region to explore... one more night to forget to sleep before 
 dragging yourself to work. It's been a long time since a Might and Magic role-playing game was 
 released, and many gamers questioned whether or not New World Computing could recapture the magic 
 of past games in the series. We shouldn't have worried. Might and Magic VI is a classically designed 
 role-playing game that features both a huge gaming world and lots of attention to detail. It's 
 a standout game in what should be a great year for role-playing game fans. Might and Magic is back, 
 and it's better than ever.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (20 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Manoose
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 31, 2009 2:06 pm PT
Review:  Tho... potentially considered dated by todays standards, everything is terrible today anyway. i 
 played this game for the first time last year 2008 and i could not stop... it's hard work, frustrating 
 time consuming and so rewarding!
  
  By the end i was on such a power trip i was laughing maniacally alloud.
  
  (Natural speed  
 100 + boots of Hermes + Spells: Fly+ Haste +blaster grandmaster + ride of the Valkyries) X mobs 
 of enemies = secret to all lifes happiness.
  
  At first i though lasers were ridiculous and game-breakingly out of place.... then i smartened 
 up.
  
  This games spell system and rewarding combat system keeps me coming back for more, really compells 
 you to make your characters better an better.
  I'd fully recommend this, but only if you've got lots of free time, and some initial patience... 
 other wise this is not for you.... and its entirely your loss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingLim
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 15, 2008 6:41 pm PT
Review:  This and the Heroes of Might and Magic series made me a fan of 3DO games instantly. Might and Magic 
 VI was my first of the series and it rocked my little world. I never knew 3D sprites would be so 
 cool! Well, deep in my inner senses, they look like crap even at that time, but the innovative 
 (4-characters) gameplay mechanism and the fantastic hidden-secrets-ridden world are so inventive 
 that nothing else matters. This translates to a true classic.
  
  For those unacquainted to the style of Might and Magic, you may realise a steep learning curve 
 for this game as you find yourself helpless against bats and goblins in your first step into the 
 world of Enroth. Well, it took me long to find out that bolts and arrows are the staple diet for 
 most enemies you met for the first quarter of the game, ha, a tip from a friend. Ok, equip four 
 bows... there you go, now let's go up the tavern and whoa! Where am I? Dragons?! Aren't I supposed 
 to be too early to fight dragons now?! There it is, this game holds lots of surprises and promotes 
 exploring, experimentation and chit-chatting with gaming friends.
  
  It's something like an old-school Oblivion from the Elder Scroll series, though with 4 characters 
 instead of one, yet it still plays from a first-person perspective, which is strangely interesting 
 at that time. Again, it may look downright sucky now, but for those who have seen or experienced 
 how the game works, they will understand the might and magic contained in Might and Magic VI. (No, 
 I'm not cheesy, I just want to make a point.)
  
  KingLim 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scigeni
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 13, 2008 4:25 pm PT
Review:  Might and Magic VI: The Mandate of Heaven is one of the most amazing RPGs of all time! This game 
 is one of a kind. I have never seen a single game that has the same depth and qualities this game 
 has to offer. Might and Magic VI has a wonderful storyline (but believe me, you won't even care 
 about the story once you start playing) , an amazing gameplay, and a lot more. The RPG elements 
 in this game are outstanding. Might and Magic VI is a game to remember for life. But nowadays, 
 almost nobody knows it. That is because the great job the game's sequels did in ruining its name. 
 Might and Magic VII was good, but not great. But it still might seem amazing for the people that 
 didn't try out Might and Magic VI. But the sequels after that are the ones that made the best damage. 
 Ubisoft was no expert in these kinds of games, but it still bought the series from 3DO and wanted 
 to improve it. But it seems that they failed. Might and Magic VIII was almost like a bad copy of 
 Might and Magic VII, but Might and Magic IX was a total failure. And then came Dark Messiah of 
 Might and Magic, which was even worse! Anyway, I know that Ubisoft is a great company, so I hope 
 they are going to be able to restore the series back into its line. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RaHead
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 1, 2007 3:52 am PT
Review:  This game, simply put, is so playable that you will have to ask your friends to pull you away from 
 playing this otherwise you may forget simple tasks like eating.
  
  Though this was designed for Win98 like 10 years ago, it ranks way higher than 95% of the RPG's 
 available nowadays.
  
  The graphics nowadays would be considered low-end, but the gameplay is so smooth that you can't 
 really see any other way they could make the monsters look without damaging the amazing smoothness. 
 Gameplay - 10 stars. Smooth, well rendered playing style and your choice of turn-based or live 
 action mode means you can play this game in any mood, whether you feel like planning an ambush 
 of sparks for unwilling victims, or charging around around unloading meteor showers is your choice. 
 The quests can sometimes be very difficult regardless of what equipment you have and will require 
 some thinking to finish them. There is a nice array of spells to play with with different classes 
 gaining access to different spells. The combat is quite fun and has edge-of-your-seat style enemies 
 who sometimes decide to surprise you in many ways that will always keep you somewhat 'paranoid'.
 
  
  There are other things like being able to fly, walk on water (useless if u ask me) , teleport and 
 all the other nigglies that RPGs should have. Also you can have little NPCs follow you around that 
 can give you stat bonuses, more gold etc etc. The thing I enjoyed most is trying to find all the 
 best weapons and gear when you kill a monster (My P4 reloads save files in 2 seconds, meaning it 
 was very easy to get the best gear) but I wouldnt suggest doing that as it ruins the atmosphere 
 of the game - just pretend you are playing the game on a crappy P2 and loading takes forever so 
 you couldn't be a$$ed doing this trick.
  
  Graphics - Well, 10 years ago I would have given this maybe a 9 or 10, but times change and so 
 do graphics/graphics cards, so I would rate them quite low. BUT, who cares? I would rather play 
 most of the old NES games like KungFu or RC-ProAM than most of the games out now simply because 
 of their amazing playability and Might and Magic VI definitely has a lot of that.
  
  Sound - Well rounded tunes and sounds like the battle 'DERNER!!! which reminds me of something 
 out of a horror film.
  
  Value - 10/10, 5 stars, 100% ... whatever you can possibly have as the highest vaule possible. 
 I reinstalled this game a few weeks ago and felt absolutely obligated to write a review on how 
 good it is. Buy this if you can or find it somewhere (you know what i mean) , do whatever you can 
 to get this game because it is PERFECT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CooperTeam
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 20, 2007 10:19 am PT
Review:  I have to admit that even after all these years, the MIGHT &amp; MAGIC series has yet to disappoint 
 me. What's even more interesting is that the SNES and Genesis versions of the earlier games were 
 very done and well designed. This version, however, is far more complex than the other older ones, 
 but still keeps to the original principals of the original title and series.
  
  GRAPHICS
  =========
  The graphics, compaired to todays gaming, is not the best, but keep in mind this game 
 was made back during the WIN95/98 days. It has a nice collection of 3D environments and buildings 
 with 2D sprites. To me the graphics could have been made a little better, but hey, I still will 
 not complain totally about it. This is not the best part of the game.
  
  CONTROL
  =========
  If you are a first time RPGer and you want a game that works great, even on an XP 
 machine, then this is one of the first games to try out. The controls are very simple to know and 
 doesn't require a lot of time to know them. Most of the enterface is done with the mouse while 
 the movement is done with the arrow keys. When you attack, you just click on the monster when you 
 are close enough or if you have equipped bows.
  
  OVERALL
  ========
  My only pet peeve about this game is that your long-range attacks are very limited. Even if you 
 can see the monster, you can't seem to reach them unless you are close enough for the AI monsters 
 to see you. Plus, this game does have a few bugs that I have noticed, but nothing a little SAVE 
 OFTEN tip can't cure. If you still only have a WIN98 system and you want an RPG game that really 
 rocks, then this is a game you should get. It's really worth the buy. Adventures await those who 
 want it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mizrach
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 18, 2007 1:07 am PT
Review:  The title says it all. This game is simply awesome. My collection of PC games is enormous. 10 years 
 worth of PC games, and i would have to place this in my top 5 favorite games. Everything about 
 this game is done just perfect. The story is amazing, the controls are just right, and the character 
 development is extensive. The game can get very difficult at times if you haven't taken the time 
 to properly advance your characters, train skills/spells, or just failure to use different combat 
 tactics depending on what you are fighting. It's not your typical linear cakewalk, like so many 
 RPGs are nowadays. In fact, its not linear at all. You are free to do whatever you want when you 
 want. You can even kill every citizen of every town if you wanted to. Doing so, however, gets many 
 people angry at you to say the least. :)
  
  The value of the game is limitless. When you start the game, you create a party of 4 adventurers. 
 Depending on which classes you compose your party of changes the way you play thru the game. A 
 balanced party will make the game much easier. Whereas a party consisting of 4 sorcerers will be 
 EXTREMELY difficult to play, especially at the beginning of the game. Try odd parties for a challenge 
 once you know the game very well.
  
  All in all, a perfectly put together game. A+++ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slayer_Sam
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 26, 2006 11:23 am PT
Review:  Installation is handled nicely by New World Computing, as they have elected to include two CDs. 
 One of which is the installation CD - which contains all the information that needs to be stored 
 on the hard drive. Install sizes of 250 and 450 Megs are available, and while that is a large amount, 
 it prevents the player from having to swap CDs as they switch between areas - a definite advantage. 
 Once the game is installed, simply put away the install CD - you won't need it again. The second 
 CD, with the game data, must be in to start the game, and is the only one actually needed to play 
 the game. The box also comes with a full color cloth map, showing a general overview of the land 
 of Enroth - not necessary, but a handy addition to help keep your bearings as you travel the land. 
 Also included, and is highly recommended reading, is the 64 page manual. Much as reading a manual 
 can be a tedious task, it is highly recommended, as there are a great number of facets to the game, 
 and the manual does an admirable job of covering them. The first few pages are an overview of the 
 plot and land of Enroth, as well as King Roland's aforementioned final 5 letters - the 8 pages 
 are well written, and shed some light on the plot and land itself (there's also a clue for a quest 
 late in the game) . There's also a handy key reference for various keyboard shortcuts, character 
 creation information, character inventory/status screens, a gigantic spell listing with information 
 for all of the game's 99 spells, and a short tutorial assisting new players on how to begin their 
 journey. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fiveball
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 1, 2006 2:17 pm PT
Review:  Kinda like reading fantasy novels where it may be embarrasing to mention to people not on the internet- 
 it engulfs and envelopes your awareness while playing. Very good stuff , with a high replay factor. 
 The sequels fail to capture you as well as this one does. Ive played it twice through and because 
 you can pick different characters in your party at the beginning it makes for a different startegy 
 as you complete your quests. And the game by itself from start to finish can last as long as you 
 want it because you are free to do most anything you would like while pursuing the quests.. or not. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luckjon
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 23, 2006 1:29 pm PT
Review:  When my brother got this game when it first came out, i thought nothing much of it, silly realistic 
 people pictures in a cartoony game.
  But when i played it, i was hooked.
  Nothing is more satisfying then flying ove a pack of Goblins and unleashing fireballs or metor 
 shower on them, for they gave you such a hard time when you started the game.
  Or the constant treasure chest looting, always trying to find those Artifcats and Relics. (sadly 
 i resorted to cheating to get Relics)
  The story was mindblowing as well to, only sad thing is that all your leveling up is near useless 
 when you aquire the "Ancient" weapons that deal death in seconds, that is my only regret. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ahaug
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 31, 2006 1:39 am PT
Review:  My friend gave this to me for my birthday a long time ago and it is my most played game. I have 
 started new games three times and it never gets old. The replay value on this is a 10 out of 10. 
 The only drawback on the game is the subpar graphics but that is to be expected since computer 
 technology has advanced so much since its release. If you are extremely lucky you will be able 
 to find it cheap (if you can find it) . This is my favorite game, it is big enough that you don't 
 feel cheated but small enough that you don't get lost or spend 20 min traveling to some where (like 
 I do in morrowind) . If you like RPG's, get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supamancam
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 16, 2006 7:48 pm PT
Review:  Simply put, this game is amazing. When you first create a party and find yourself in New Sorpigal, 
 you'll think to yourself, 'What on earth is this place'? Well, don't let the fact that you have 
 no idea what to do put you off. Controls in this game are simple and easy to pick up, the combat 
 is tense and exciting also... There is an art to successful combat, be it strafing whilst peppering 
 the enemy with arrows and spells, luring them through doors to take them out one at a time or flying 
 above them whilst calling down meteors and even stars to demolish them. (yes, you can fly, very 
 quickly in fact, by FAR the best spell in the game, imo ;) )
  
  Gameplay: 10. There's no game like it (except maybe MM7) . It's so addictive, challenging and rewarding... 
 Working hard for an hour or two to clear a map will net you in a lot of gold and experience (maps 
 renew themselves every so often based upon in-game time) .. There are so many dungeons and overland 
 maps to explore, each more interesting and fascinating than the rest.
  
  Graphics: 8. Looking at it from an outsiders perspective, the graphics certainly won't overwhelm 
 you. Yet, as you play it, they'll sure grow on you. They fit the mood of the game perfectly, many 
 of them monsters look rather terrifying, to tell the truth. Massive overland maps are actually 
 rather spectacular to look at from, say, 100metres in the air whilst airborne, lol...
  
  Sound: 10. It's only fair to say that this game has the best soundtrack of any game i've played 
 to date. Spend a little time out of the game, and you'll find yourself trying to recall the beautiful 
 tunes from individual cities... Not only is the music great, but the spell effect sounds and monster 
 noises are fairly impressive also... There's nothing like running around Minotaur Lords roaring 
 'Dieeeee' in a voice from the depths of hell, lol, whilst waiting for the 11/100 chance to kill 
 instantly (Finger of Death, i believe is the spell) ..
  
  Value: 10. Has to be 10. This game came out what, 10 years ago almost? If i can still play it, 
 enjoying it just as much as i did then, it'd be a blatant lie to give it anything less. Infinite 
 replay value, the open style of gameplay allows you to do things whichever way you see fit, without 
 being forced down a certain track.
  
  If you want an immensely satisfying RPG for a very cheap price, buy this game. Honestly, you won't 
 regret it.
  
  P. S the only reason I rated the difficulty as 'Hard' is because it is. ;)
  Later stages of the game are HARD. e. g Castle Darkmoor, where the Power Liches drain all your mana 
 no matter where they might be, followed up by vicious elemental attacks from the Terrifying Eyes 
 etc..
  another e. g: Castle Kreigspire, where the Minotaur Lords can kill instantly with the greatest of 
 ease.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Govvy
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 6, 2007 4:13 am PT
Review:  It took me over 2 years to play through this game and I liked it all the way. (Thats Earth years) 
 From starting your party to wondering your way through the continent of Enroth finding the strange 
 and wonderful things while meeting terror at the same time. At the time I started to play this 
 game, the graphics where a little flat to most other games. That didn't stop me from enjoying the 
 game. Checking the stats of my characters and watching the mission complete pile up. MM6 also comes 
 with excellent music too and the sound effects are of top quality. You can really appreciate the 
 effort the programmers put into this game. :)
  
  This game is very addictive and can provide excellent entertainment on a rainy day. I have played 
 for hours on end slaying monsters, collecting gold and valuable's, completing the dungeons and 
 quests. And learning of Ancient Weapons! That is rather clich&eacute;! I am not going to give any 
 of the storyline away, but it is very intriguing and has an interesting ending. This is a gaming 
 classic and is in my top ten games list. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Daveo1337
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 5, 2006 12:56 pm PT
Review:  When I first got this game, some six or seven years ago, I wasn't too impressed. Once I got the 
 hang of it I was enchanted.
  
  The gameplay can be anywhere from simple to quite involved. Enemies come in huge quantity, and 
 simply avoiding getting completely overwhelmed can be a challenge sometimes. It's a very loose 
 game in that you can take it at your own pace, and go off and do your own thing instead of following 
 the main storyline. Characters aren't limited much in their development (unlike future MM games) 
 beyond what they can initially learn and their base hp/mp, allowing for much flexibility. Even 
 after completing the game one can roam around as they see fit, and there is a veritable ton of 
 easter eggs to be found around the world.
  
  The interface cannot be customized, which is a drag, but it is not too hard to get used to things 
 as they are.
  
  There are some balance issues. Melee classes dominate in the beginning and magic classes take prominence 
 toward the end... but every class has its uses throughout, and doing well requires many specific 
 roles to be filled, in both skills and spells. Some spells are decent in the beginning but do not 
 scale well at all in power, a problem later titles fix. However, your casters will always have 
 certain spells they can always fall back on. In short, you can deal with them.
  
  The difficulty factor is hard to put a finger on. You'll often be cruising fine once you get the 
 hang of the game, but if you lose a key member of your party, things often can go south in a hurry. 
 Water mastery makes the game a lot simpler both by easing travel and allowing for quick escapes 
 and quicker returns through placing beacons, but that is something most aren't able to do until 
 at least midgame. Status effects severely complicate things at times, and monsters that can completely 
 drain your mana, instantly kill, bring one to 0 hp, or eradicate at random can prove difficult 
 no matter how tough your characters are.
  
  The graphics are okay. 2D sprites on 3D backgrounds naturally look somewhat awkward, and some spell 
 animations are reused often. Texture shading as the sole means (well, save size) to indicate power 
 variations among different variants in a family of creatures is also kind of tacky in my opinion. 
 Nevertheless, the art is still very well done, despite the shortcomings of its implementation.
 
  
  The sound effects are very lively and have quite a lot of character. The party's voice acting can 
 be a bit over the top at times; I think this only adds to the flavor of the game, however. The 
 music gives a sort of storybook feel, and it is only used limitedly, meaning it establishes atmosphere 
 without growing irritating.
  
  All in all, this game provides hours on end of quality gameplay, if you give it a chance. If Ubisoft 
 ever does anything with the rights to this franchise, they should look to this game for inspiration. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dyoma
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 15, 2006 7:20 am PT
Review:  I bought this game in 1999 thats like 7 years ago I never got into it that much (I had it on my 
 shelf for 5 years!) but then I thought why not try it out! So I started playing like a year ago 
 and I am still playing it! The game itself is very nice. The start of the game maybe is not that 
 fun but when you get into it you can't get out! In the start of the game its very hard too play 
 because all the monsters are strong and you are weak. But belief me if you'll play it you'll realize 
 that soon you will get strong with each level and the monsters won't. The game has a big variety 
 of classes ranks weapons magic and skills. At the start you'll run around with wooden swords but 
 dont worry later you'll get your special artifacts like Excalibur and many others. I think this 
 game deserves a place at the best Rpg Stand! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jen28tx
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 28, 2006 9:40 pm PT
Review:  I love the game, very addictive, very very fun! It may be a bit outdated for the majority of the 
 gamers out there, but my daughter and I have had a blast playing it. It's alot of fun, the quests 
 are right on level. I had a difficult time, going around in circles until I found a few sites that 
 helped me find the places (maps) that I needed. The characters are right on too. My daughter is 
 a dragon finatic and we both really enjoy playing. Matter of fact, she asked me today why are the 
 people in the game mean. It gave me a great oppertunity to show how the background of the game 
 stems from moral values that we have today. Basically a huge cult, but with monsters. I pointed 
 out that there are cults today that try to kill people too... I said you can't always believe everything 
 someone tells you, you just never know. It's been really fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sururick
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 26, 2005 7:19 pm PT
Review:  As far as rpg games go, the entire might and magic series out does them all. I play might and magic 
 vi all the time. In addition, the best part of the game is simply the fact that the entire game 
 flows to together, "The story, music, characters, etc." The soundtrack to the games is by far the 
 best I have heard from a game. Another key feature to the game is that it is very customizable. 
 I enjoy playing with different classes and trying different skills. In conclusion, if you are looking 
 for an excellent rpg, this is most definitely the game to play!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SithEmperorWolf
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 16, 2005 7:05 am PT
Review:  Might and Magic VI is by far one of the best RPG's to date. In my opinion Might and Magic VI is 
 tied with the Final Fantasy series for best RPG. Not only is it challenging when it needs to be 
 but it's also a long game. Once you pick it up the first time you will spend any where from 1 month 
 or more trying to beat it. In fact, I spent about 3-4 months playing the game trying to beat the 
 game, though I spent that time doing minor quests and training but it was worth it. Even after 
 playing it over and over about 6 times at least it still takes me longer to beat than any game 
 out there today. The story line is well developed and most dungeons you enter will have puzzles 
 that make the game even more challenging. This game is a must have for any serious RPG'er. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slundell50
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 15, 2005 5:04 am PT
Review:  I am playing this game for the second time and the experience is still like playing for the first 
 time. I am agree the graphics are dated, but the game play is by far some of the best compared 
 to others. Too bad the series faltered. Might & Magic VII is also one of the best games in the 
 series. I will probably end up playing that for the second time to. I haven't gotten in to the 
 Diablo series yet, but I plan to play at least one. 
  
  M&M6 is a very additive game, so for those who like to spend long hours in none stop game play, 
 this is a good choice. I remember when I first played this game I spent 8 hours playing none stop. 
 So, if you're in to RPG's, check this one out. It's worth your time 
::::::

::::::
UserName: corylea
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 6, 2005 9:23 am PT
Review:  I love this game, way more than I liked newer games with better graphics, like Diablo or Baldur's 
 Gate (even though I did like Diablo and Baldur's Gate) . What's so special about it?
  
  1) In other games, I sometimes felt as if I were slogging through a level. In MM6, something is 
 always happening. One goes up in level quite often, so there are new spells or better skills or 
 new weapons or more armor or some goodie or the other every time you turn around. Most of the monsters 
 have a least a couple of goldpieces, so nearly every critter killed gives you something. This makes 
 the game very addictive -- just get one more level, and you can get that skill you want; just kill 
 five more monsters and you can afford that armor. What? It's 4 a. m.?
  
  2) One can play battles in real time or in turn-based mode. I have truly miserable hand-eye coordination, 
 and many video games are simply too hard for me and thus not fun. This game lets the dexterous 
 play in real time, but the turn-based option lets those of us who are nondexterous play, too. I 
 wish every game had a turn-based option! Also in this vein, you use your characters' skills to 
 attack monsters, not your own, so you don't have to line up a blow with a sword or an arrow from 
 a bow or a fireball from a wizard -- you just tell your charcters whom you want them to attack, 
 and they figure it out. You figure the strategy; your characters handle the hand-eye coordination. 
 That's why they're the adventurers, and you're sitting at a computer. :-)
  
  3) The party is large enough that one gets to take advantage of several different types of skills 
 -- you can have a fighter, a mage, a cleric, AND an archer -- but they move as a unit, so the game 
 doesn't descend into the chaos that some other RPG's do.
  
  4) Many recent RPG's seem to be so concerned with realism that they've sacrificed gameplay -- just 
 as one example, I've played RPG's where archers are always having to run back to town to buy more 
 arrows, even if they buy 500 at a time. In MM6, there's some concern with realism but more concern 
 with gameplay. If you have a bow, it's assumed that you have arrows to go with it -- you never 
 have to buy any. There are some space limitations, but no weight limitations, so if it fits in 
 your space allotment, you can carry it.
  
  5) The Mandate Mania website (run by a fan, not the official site) is one of the most helpful game 
 websites I've ever seen. They give LOTS of information, and it's very well organized.
  
  6) I could go on and on, but this is long enough. :-) The game is fun and charming, reasonably 
 easy without being dull, and has lots of skills, quests, places, and items.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gumpo
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 30, 2004 8:31 pm PT
Review:  The "Might And Magic" series has always been one of the definitive computer RPGs, and New World 
 Computing hit their apex with the well designed sixth itteration of their hit series, in Might 
 and Magic VI: The Mandate of Heaven.
  
  Following where the last game left off, which was "Heroes of Might and Magic II: The Price Of Loyalty" 
 You embark on a well told tale of, strangely enough, might and magic.
  
  You get to manage 4 PCs and 2 Helpers NPCs navigate through a first person world loaded with NPCs, 
 Baddies, Towns, and Dungeons. The game features two engines, one for rendering the outdoors, and 
 one for the insides of buildings and other dungeons.
  
  As far as the visuals go, there are hundreds of different characters to see and interact with, 
 and tons of different locations. While they may all be slightly pixellated, there is enough variety 
 to make up for the slightly dated graphics engine. A cool feature unique to MM6 is the character 
 portraits - they're lifelike and realistic, as if paintings done by a great artist, or even snapshots 
 with a still camera. This helps immerse you in the experience, making you beleive things are more 
 real than they actually are.
  
  The inventory system makes a lot of sense, and is also nice and old fashioned. You can lug around 
 a good deal of stuff, and easily drag it over to the paperdoll and equip it onto your character. 
 Within the invintory, it is also possible for you to mix potions to create special attribute bonuses 
 that help you on your journey.
  
  speaking of your journey, while there is a great story backing what you are doing, you will find 
 that most of the time you spend playing the game is limited to seek and destroy or fetch and carry 
 type missions, which can become very redundant. You do have the choice of which missions you embark 
 upon, but for the most experience points, you'll need to go through lots of sidequests.
  
  The experience system works very well in this game. As you gain levels, you can visit training 
 camps around the world to increase your level. To learn skills, you need to purchase them from 
 guilds. Combining these two elements creates the impression that you are actually being trained 
 in skills, rather then just developing them like in most RPGs.
  
  The battle system is also well done, allowing both turn based and real time modes, depending on 
 your personal preference.
  
  the only major problem with the game is that NPCs are constantly getting in your way. It helps 
 to create a vivid world, but after a while it just gets annoying.
  
  All in all, MM6 is a solid game, with a good story, and a strong combat and experience system. 
 If you're an RPG fan, this is a must own. If you're a casual player, its at least worth a peak.
 
  
  unfortunately, as 3D0 is now defunct, it will be incredibly hard to find a copy around, but check 
 those bargain bins, its a great game. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
