-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Might and Magic VIII: Day of the Destroyer
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/mightandmagic8dayotd/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 22, 2000
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6
Critic Score: 5.5, 26 Review (s)
User Score: 8.1, 335 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: 3DO
Genre: Role-Playing
Date:     Feb 29, 2000 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Might and Magic VIII's old graphics engine, repetitive gameplay, bugs, and relative ease will be 
 too much to overlook. 

 When 3DO develops a game engine, it sure likes to get its money's worth. Might and Magic VIII: Day 
 of the Destroyer is a perfect example: The hack-and-slash RPG looks and plays just like its two 
 most recent predecessors, despite the fact that it features some fundamental design changes and 
 gameplay enhancements. Consequently, Might and Magic VIII will only appeal to hard-core fans of 
 the series who haven't yet grown weary of the repetitive gameplay that was introduced in Might 
 and Magic VI and recycled in Might and Magic VII.  

 Might and Magic VIII is set in the land of Jadame, and the plot revolves around a mysterious crystal 
 that has risen out of the ground in the centrally located city of Ravenshore. After the crystal's 
 appearance, gateways to the four elemental planes have opened up in Jadame, causing cataclysmic 
 destruction in the nearby lands. You begin as a humble caravan guard, and your first task is to 
 escape the Dagger Wound Islands, which have been cut off from the mainland by an opportunistic 
 pirate band intent on cashing in during the post-cataclysmic confusion. Beyond that, you must uncover 
 the secret of the crystal and find a way to stop the elemental forces that are tearing Jadame apart. 

 In the first major break from previous games, you begin Might and Magic VIII with only one character. 
 You can eventually control a party of five, but you must find and recruit your companions along 
 the way. The other major change in Might and Magic VIII is that you can choose from a variety of 
 races and classes not previously available. In addition to the basic cleric and knight, you can 
 start out as a vampire, dark elf, minotaur, troll, or necromancer. As in previous games, each character 
 type can be promoted via a specific quest for each class. Another significant new feature is the 
 addition of dragons as playable characters, though they can only join your party after the game 
 begins, meaning you can't create a dragon character from scratch.  

 Despite the modified party structure, the basic gameplay formula remains unchanged: You wander the 
 countryside, fight vast hordes of monsters, accumulate lots of experience, gain many levels, learn 
 and refine skills, and repeat. Though the game generally seems less reliant on having to slay hundreds 
 of creatures as in Might and Magic VI, there are times when the number of monsters you'll face 
 is simply ludicrous, especially toward the end of the game.  

 Dragons are especially useful to have when there's a lot of fighting to do. And since you have the 
 option to recruit a dragon fairly early in the game, you'll almost immediately improve your combat 
 effectiveness by a huge margin, which diminishes the challenge of the game. Between its devastating 
 basic attack and its ability to breathe fire, your dragon will carry you to victory in almost every 
 battle. And since you can quickly boost your dragon's skills to the point where it gains the ability 
 to fly and can carry the entire party with it, you can easily pass areas through which you would 
 have otherwise spent hours hacking and slashing. It's this gross game imbalance that makes dragons 
 in Might and Magic VIII problematic. When you have a dragon in tow, combat becomes repetitive and 
 tedious even when you're up against difficult foes, especially when the rest of your party is handy 
 with ranged weapons.  

 Another game-balance problem is the extremely powerful invisibility spell, which is available to 
 masters of the air-magic skill. So long as you don't bump into or attack any monsters while the 
 spell is active, you can wander right on by your enemies and accomplish your quest goals without 
 interference. Invisibility can greatly shorten the end game in Might and Magic VIII, where many 
 of the quest dungeons are small and built around a destination you must reach, rather than an ultimate 
 battle you must win. The skill system in Might and Magic VIII works well, as in the previous installment. 
 It places a number of restrictions on character classes in an attempt to preserve the game balance, 
 or to counteract the impact of having a dragon in your party. For example, you can't make all of 
 your party members grand-master archers, but you can train most characters to at least use a bow. 
 Some of the restrictions are annoying, such as the cleric class' inability to attain grand-master 
 status with a mace, but the skill system is generally well implemented.  

 The only truly aggravating aspect of the skill system is that you must visit expert, master, and 
 grand-master teachers who are scattered across the game world. Combined with the need to level 
 up via training at specific locations, the never-ending search for teachers makes you feel like 
 an errand boy, which can become tedious in a hurry, especially when each member of your party is 
 eligible for several different skill upgrades at once. You'll get the sense while scurrying from 
 teacher to teacher that you're doing so simply because the developers wanted to make the game longer. 
 Many of the quests in the game also feel like busywork.  

 A quick glance at the screenshots for Might and Magic VIII will tell you that the graphics haven't 
 changed much. It uses the same 3D engine and fuzzy 2D sprites to illustrate every monster and most 
 environmental items. Some of the 2D sprites look better than others, such as the cyclops and the 
 fire elementals, but they're still flat and make the game look very dated.  

 What's even more distressing is that the game has a few jumping puzzles, which can be very difficult 
 to negotiate because of the engine's limited viewing area and the unresponsive keyboard controls. 
 If the designers considered jumping puzzles to be a vital part of the game's design, then they 
 should have at least enhanced the 3D engine to accommodate them.  

 The game also has a frustrating combat bug that leaves your party powerless against monsters that 
 get too close in a melee. Once a creature gets near enough that its sprite runs off the top and 
 bottom of the screen, your characters' melee attacks suddenly become useless. Might and Magic VIII 
 also suffers from a number of other bugs, including random lockups that necessitate frequent use 
 of the quick-save option. However, reloading after a quick save occasionally shuts down the magic 
 system completely, so none of your characters can cast spells.  

 Might and Magic VIII can be fun to play in spite of all its problems, as it manages to retain most 
 of the same addictive charm of the previous two installments. However, for newcomers to RPGs as 
 well as gamers who're already tired of the recent Might and Magic games, Might and Magic VIII's 
 old graphics engine, repetitive gameplay, bugs, and relative ease will be too much to overlook. 
    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (10 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: GregSK
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 31, 2006 11:16 pm PT
Review:  Might and Magic VIII is a definite must buy for all gamers. It has great, addictive and compelling 
 game play. Unfortunately the graphics are not exactly great but they are still good enough to keep 
 you playing MM VIII for hours. The basic idea of the game has changed since MM VII because now, 
 instead of starting off with your whole party, you start with one character, and can recruit people 
 into your party as you continue along your quest. There are also some more playable races in MM 
 VIII such as Dragons, Trolls, And Minotaurs. I think that the added customisability with your party 
 is handy in case you get tired of a certain character or just want a party with characters of a 
 certain race. The game also has a great re-playability factor considering you can choose to do 
 different quests, or have different characters each time you play. All in all MM VIII is a great 
 game and i would recommend it to anyone who is interested in this type of game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scotch69
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 30, 2006 7:40 pm PT
Review:  Might and Magic VIII was a challenging game for a while. Then you get to add the dragon to your 
 party and it is domination time! The way the game is set up is starting to wear thin and although 
 it can be fun at times, in the end you are looking forward to getting the job done. The high points 
 were the variety of characters you could add to your party, the story was pretty good and kept 
 me involved throughout the entirety of the game and the game allowing you to dictate information 
 made it way less frustrating to find buildings when you need to. The weak points were some of the 
 blocky graphics and the game became mostly easy when you can add dragons to your party. The music 
 was good as always and you do feel like you accomplish something when you do finish your quest. 
 Time to move towards the conclusion of the series Might and Magic IX! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shepstar1
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 11, 2006 4:31 am PT
Review:  Man! I paid 5 for this game in my store about a month ago. I must say this 5 is 10 times better 
 than games which have cost over 7 times that amount.
  
  Great story line: A giant crystal has erected in the middle of Ravenhome, it releases chaos across 
 the land and you must put a stop to the chaos, lots of skills to learn and train: e. g. Swordsmanship, 
 Disarming traps, Merchant and about 50 more.
  
  I cant describe a game of this calibre in one review!
  
  The graphics are cool being the date 
 this game was released. At least they gave it to us in 3D!
  Lots of challanging beasts for us to test are skills on such as Skeleton Archers, Minotaurs, Elves 
 and Necromancers.
  
  The music is cool too, suits the enviroment totally, it does get repetitive but you lose the atmosphere 
 without the music.
  
  So heres a toast to 3DO and there masterpiece of a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dyoma
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 23, 2006 6:44 am PT
Review:  This is one more 3do rpg that is great! Since I have started playing M&M games I fell in love with 
 them. The game story is very cool. There is a bunch of side quests and missions you can take but 
 you dont have too. There is a big variety in clases magic and abilities. Also in the game there 
 is a lot of super artifacts like "the club of the destroyer" and many others you can find through 
 out the game. But probobly my favorite part about the game was the card game you can play in taverns 
 that is called ARCHMAGE. By winnig you can get a lot of money plus if you beat the champion in 
 it you'll get a lot of money plus a super artifact. I think if you like rpg's you'll love this 
 game. I love all the M&M games!! that's why I give this game 10!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Waezzz
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 10, 2006 4:16 am PT
Review:  Having played through the game several times a few years back, i must say 
  i'm looking forward with great anticipation to play this game once again. 
  Although i agree 
 on almost everyone of it's downsides, which is quite a few; Low quality graphics, bugs galore, 
 worn - out game play, i also appreciate it's few but very important upsides. 
  Lots of monsters, artifacts, spells and places to go, combined with the ability to choose among 
 a great variety of companions and choosing your own character, gives the game great replay-ability.
 
  Further, i really don't care a lot if the graphics is terrible, because i don't think that matters 
 in these kinds of games...
  What DOES matter is whether the game makes you want to play it a lot, preferably more than once. 
 And i would say i'm living proof of that, since i've played through it twice before. 
  I especially look forward to play arcomage again, a most excellent mini-game, which gives a break 
 from the sometimes tedious hack-and-slash game play. 
  Concluding this review, i would greatly encourage others to play this game, especially if you are 
 into these kinds of games.
  
  Hvard Westby 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Konochi
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 16, 2005 9:23 pm PT
Review:  While this game is unusual compared to the rest in the series, Might and Magic 8 Day of The Destroyer 
 will not dissapoint. A lot of fun lies In the party system, You start as a lone worrior on an island 
 poulated by friendly lizard men and evil pirates. You meet party members along the way and once 
 your party is full you can let them take a member take a break at an adventurers inn if you want 
 someone else to join your 5 person party. The purpose of the game is to find the Destroyer an evil 
 man who is trying to cause chaos around the world until it tears itself apart. to get to his realm 
 you must travel though a crystel dungeon in the middle of an elven town. The problem is you dont 
 have the key. There are 4 parts to the key that are hidden in 4 planes the plane of fir, water, 
 air, and earth. once the key is together (whitch takes a LONG TIME) you will have to defeat immensly 
 powerfull creatures to even find the place where the destroyers castle is whitch is a labrynth. 
 Casual gamers will not like this game, It is WAY to hardcore, but everyone else will find an amazinf 
 epic challange in this game. My only complaint is the graphics whitch are bad. But this game is 
 a MUST GET! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Govvy
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 15, 2005 11:11 am PT
Review:  3D0 hasnt really done any improvements for MM8 so they have used the Might and Magic Engine from 
 the previous ones and brought another story/battle to this well established series. The graphics 
 are more or less the same and the cut scenes as always look really cool.
  
  You start off with one created character and in this new adventure you get to move across the land 
 and find new characters to join your party. Before you even get started a volcano erupts near by 
 and destroys your exit from Dagger Wounds Island. So now you have to find another way off. On my 
 travels right at the beginning I found Simon Templer from the series The Saint. He didnt look 
 much like Roger Moore but I welcomed him to my party and traveled on.
  
  With a slightly different interface and it took me a while to find my spell book! But everyone 
 was well presented. The game was well balanced and monsters where hard and then got harder as I 
 moved on until I leveled up. Then everything started to fear my wrath with Incinerate and some 
 other spells the monsters became easier and easier. Then I was at the end and had saved the Land 
 from a terrible fate.
  
  What I did love was the fact that I could have a Dragon in my party and dam do they own. Just the 
 normal fire breath did enough damage alone. The Dark Elves where also incredible with so many abilities 
 that can be GMed it takes longer to get them all up but the Dark Fire is pretty powerly for the 
 Dark Elf and really do add to the parties ability.
  
  I really did enjoy the game and the only bug I found which rather annoyed me was that the safe 
 chests in Ravenshore, The Merchant Guild. All the stuff I had collect had disappeared after 2 years 
 of in-game time.
  
  Overall a great game and will stay in my collection.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: freakahmet
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 24, 2005 12:21 am PT
Review:  Guzel bir serinin cok guzel bir devam. Hikaye kaldigi yerden devam ediyor. Oyun bir cok degisiklik 
 ile geliyor. Bunun en bariz ornegi oyuna dragon katilmasi. Bazilari bunu bir eksi olarak gorebilir. 
 Ama bence oyuna farkli bir tat katmis. Oldukca zevkli olmus. Ayrica oyun basinda zorlanabilecek 
 olan arkadaslar icin de bir kolaylik yolu. Ayrica artik sadece bir kisi ile basliyoruz oyuna. Sonra 
 istege gore adamlarimizi kendimiz secip begenmedigimiz adamlari grupdan atabiliyoruz. Ayrica bir 
 cok secilebilecek rk var. Bunlardan dragon haric hepsini oyun basinda secebiliyoruz. Oyuncularin 
 gucleri gene diger oyunlarda oldugu gibi esit dagitilmis. Fakat oyun basnda aldiginiz bir 
 dragon ile biraz ust seviyeden baslayabiliyorsunuz. Oyuna gelirsek grafikler serinin en iyisi. 
 Sesler de hos ama kalitesiz. Bence daha iyisi olabilirdi. Hikayeye gelince gene meshur iyi kisi 
 kotu kisi olayi var. Burada biraz kopukluk var cunku dusmanin yardimi olmadan dusmani olduremiyor 
 olmamiz bana biraz sacma geldi acikcasi 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TitaniumAlloy
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 24, 2004 1:50 pm PT
Review:  This game is a must have for all fans of the series, and worth a look from all RPG fans.
  
  --The setting is Jadame, a mystical place in Medieval times where conflict rages between diverse 
 races of all sentient beings. 
  
  But beyond the usual, Jadame is quite a peaceful place for a town dweller, until one day a stranger 
 from a far land appeared in the quiet coastal town of Ravenshore. The villagers were blown away 
 suddenly by a rush of energy as he draws power from the clouds, causing the ground to rupture and 
 give birth to a giant and mysterious crystal.
  
  This crystal unlocked the portals to the Four Elemental Planes, unleashing monstrous beings and 
 general unrest, causing nature to overload and elemental fury was laid down upon the people of 
 Jadame. Volcanoes erupted, raining fire down apon villages, lakes and rivers flooded destroying 
 homes, and the Sea of Fire flowed into the nearby towns and destroying lives. Elemental warriors 
 seem to have turned beserk, attacking the innocent and losing all reasoning. Peaceful towns in 
 versatile landscapes are now surrounded by battles and wars between monsters, mutual enemies, cut-throats 
 and guilds.
  
  You start off as an ordinary caravan guard in the small island village on the Dagger Wound Islands, 
 inhabited by Lizardmen. The islands become cut off from main land and civilization on the Day of 
 the Destroyer, when a nearby Volcano erupts and destroys the bridges and the docks. You are chosen 
 to send a help message to the mainland, and when you gather your party, this is where your story 
 unfolds. --
  
  At the beginning of the game you create your character, choosing from a multitude of classes, portraits 
 and races, from there selecting your characters statistics and skills to make the character you 
 choose to become the Hero of Jadame. 
  You can choose from 7 unique races, all with their own strengths and weaknesses.
  
  From then 
 on you can recruit other NPC's to join your party of up to 5, including recruiting super powerful 
 Dragons to fight by your side in battle. By defeating monsters, completing quests your characters 
 gain experience to level up and learn new skills, or improve on old ones.
  
  Included in the game is the choice of taking sides on major allies and enemies in everlasting battles, 
 your weight on either side could be enough to lead your chosen side to victory, and sway the ever 
 equal scales. 
  Among these wars are the fights between Dragons and Knights, and between Necromancers and Clerics.
 
  Also, there are many fun side quests and an addictive card game which can be played in any tavern, 
 which kept this game fun for me for a long time.
  
  Although the graphics seem dated and the hack and slash combat seems linear, the game is nevertheless 
 loads of fun, and a great game to have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vastb005
Rating: 7.4
Date: Oct 21, 2004 12:00 pm PT
Review:  While admittedly beginning to look a little dated, this is nevertheless a worthwhile game from 
 the Might&Magic series for all fans like myself who love them.
  
  Innovations include a five character party you can change around at will, each with their own skills 
 and levels, so even if you are at a low level it is possible to "recruit" higher level characters 
 quite early on should you wish to. With more than enough turnbased fighting and quests to occupy 
 you for a good while, the in-game game of Archomage which you can play at the taverns for fun or 
 complete as a quest if you win at all the taverns, proved surprisingly addictive. 
  
  If you like MMVI and MMVII then this is definitely the game for you, more of the same, but still 
 different enough to be interesting.
  
  Due to all the different characters available you will probably also enjoying replaying the game 
 several times with different parties. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
