-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Might and Magic VII: For Blood and Honor
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/mightandmagic7forbah/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 23, 1999
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.4
Critic Score: 7.6, 25 Review (s)
User Score: 8.6, 554 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: 3DO
Genre: Role-Playing
Date:     May 31, 1999

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
A slightly improved Might and Magic is better than no Might and Magic at all. 

 Given that four years passed between the release of Might and Magic V: Darkside of Xeen and 1998's 
 Might and Magic VI: The Mandate of Heaven, the latest chapter in the series has arrived hot on 
 the heels of the last. This relative haste is both good and bad. It's bad because many of the previous 
 game's faults remain, and the engine - merely adequate last year - looks downright dated now. It's 
 good because a number of welcome improvements have been made, and a slightly improved Might and 
 Magic is better than no Might and Magic at all.  

 Might and Magic VII follows the same addictive formula of past chapters. There are lots of quests 
 to undertake, lots of monsters to fight, and lots of levels to be gained. But this time out, New 
 World has added something that has been lacking in the past few Might and Magic games: a cohesive 
 story. The game takes place in Erathia (as did Heroes of Might and Magic III) , as opposed to Enroth, 
 the setting of Might and Magic VI. The elfin and human kingdoms are at war, with the major area 
 of dispute being the small town of Harmondale. Your party has recently become lords of this war-torn 
 area, having won it in a scavenger hunt. You must align yourself with the elves or the humans, 
 and the game gives you a few quests that let you choose your affinity.  

 This gives the game a bit of depth from the beginning. But the real depth begins when the arbiter 
 of the war dies, and as lords of the realm, you must choose his successor. Your choice will have 
 a dramatic impact on the remainder of the game. There are two candidates for arbiter - one represents 
 dark and the other light. Your choice of successor will also be the path you choose to walk for 
 the rest of the game. Each has its advantages and disadvantages, and both light and dark have their 
 own quests, spells, and class promotions available (not to mention their own interface art) . Areas 
 that may be safe for followers of light are treacherous for followers of dark, and vice versa. 
 Because this choice is made somewhat early in the game, it gives Might and Magic VII a great deal 
 of replayability.  

 Might and Magic VI removed many popular features from the series. Your characters could only be 
 human, and many character classes had been removed. These complaints have been addressed to some 
 degree, and Might and Magic VII not only restores the thief and monk character classes, but lets 
 you choose from dwarves, elves, humans, and goblins for your party members (though the half-orc 
 is still absent) .   

 Character portraits have been improved, replacing the silly photos from VI with somewhat less-silly 
 rendered portraits. Visually, however, that's about all the improvement you get. The engine is 
 crude by today's standards. Even with the addition of 3D-accelerator support (originally promised 
 for VI but not included) , the game doesn't look all that great. 3D hardware does add some nice 
 lighting effects to spells and smoothes some of the game's jagged surfaces, but even in this mode 
 the NPC and monster models are fuzzy if you get too close. On a positive note, the animated renderings 
 when you enter a building are excellent, especially in the dark cities.  

 The sound in Might and Magic VII is not only unimproved, it's unchanged. For the most part, these 
 are the same recycled sound effects from VI. They aren't bad; it's just a shame there's nothing 
 new. The music, however, is excellent. The orchestral score is ominous and uses a light amount 
 of opera, as did Heroes of Might and Magic II.   

 The combat system remains the same as in six: You can alternate between real-time combat and turn-based 
 at the touch of a key. One minor change is the addition of a movement phase in turn-based combat, 
 removing the need to switch back to real time when you need to reposition your fighters, a cumbersome 
 task that was somewhat annoying in VI.   

 The list of improvements and unresolved problems is lengthy. There are plusses like ArcoMage, a 
 fun card game you can play in the game's taverns. And there are minuses like the text, which is 
 still in the nearly unreadable italic font from VI. But when you weigh the bad points against the 
 good, it comes out strongly in the favor of good. New World Computing wisely concentrated on making 
 enhancements that make the lengthy game much more enjoyable, and the technical enhancements can 
 wait for Might and Magic VIII.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (11 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Templar_999
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 3, 2009 5:39 pm PT
Review:  might and magic 7 like every other might and magic game provides good gameplay and a diffrent kind 
 of way to play rpgs and this one isn't really any diffrent however this is a nice smal improvement 
 over might and magic 6
  
  Storyline 8/10 great
  
  you create 4 characters then go straight into this contest to win a castle and part of a land, 
 after doing this you earn your castle then have to deal with certian problems like restoring your 
 castle, making aliance's and such to restore your land while eventually leading to saving the world, 
 this is also a free roaming game where your not forced to go with the main storyline to fully enjoy 
 the aspect's of the game, nothing we hadvent seen before but not to commen ether
  
  Gameplay 10/10 interesting
  
  the gameplay in this game is what seperate's it from other rpg's, 
 you can play ether in turn based combat for slower people or in real time for faster people, during 
 combat you tell your character to attack with a simple click or use a quick setted spell then he 
 automaticly hits the target you have clicked on, now you dont actually see yourself swing or even 
 see your party in the first place since your viewing first person with a 4 person party but you 
 will see blood animation's, arrow animation's, and magic, however, you will clearly see your enemy 
 attack animations, what's so wonderfull about the enemy's in this game that each type comes with 
 its own set's of animation to make them really realistic and not just target's for you to beat 
 down, at first... all this may not seem much to player's but know that every enemy in this game 
 will not simpily die for you, they can simpily kill you in seconds if you made a wrong move or 
 rush into a crowd of enemy's like a lunatic will more likely get you killed even if you think you 
 are stronger then the opposing type of the enemy,
  what's very nice about this is everything you explore (which you are free to explore 90% of anywere 
 at your choice) you really wont have much of an idea of what can happen or what's in the next corner, 
 at time's it can really get intense enough to make your adreniline start moving if you really get 
 into it since enemy's are very well challenging in there own uniqe ways, some are just simpily 
 faster then other's then there are some that just have a deadly magic output that can cause chaos 
 to your party, also the system of skill point's (which has a large freedom of your choice to put 
 in any skill from any level at your desire as long as that char has learned that skill) in a proficenity 
 type of weapon, magic or passive skill's is a nice way to make the player think about what to rasie 
 or not for what is really need'ed, it's really hard to descirbe the combat but you literaly just 
 might have to play to undertsand what im trying to say,
  
  Graphic's 8/10 a real mixture of 3D with 2D model's
  
  i dont really care about graphic's but 
 the mixture of 3D buildings then 2D enemy model's make me confused how to grade it... the mountian 
 angle's are carved out as sqaure's on the edges though but the top of it is finely vairyed... the 
 ocean water look's like an ocean but there are no visible wave's or anything out there at all (usually) 
 unless if it was an island, i think its just safe to say it pass's, nothing more nothing less,
 
  
  Music 10/10 genuis
  
  im actually very suprised about the soundtrack of this game, about 75% of it is epic and greatly 
 fit's it's theme, especily inside explorable dungeon's will help you get into the game's danger's 
 it throw out you and take it seriously is a awesome combination that enhance's the gameplay which 
 rarly other rpg's can do, even commen battle's in the game will defentley feel epic thanks to the 
 music soley itself, i dont know who made these music peice's but he should get paid and hired more 
 often,
  
  Replay value 8/10 decent
  
  honestly the only real reason you'd play this game again is to feel the nice danger and rush of 
 the gameplay system, or choose a diffrent set of party member's to try out with, is the only main 
 reason's why you wanted to play again other then it's just that much fun to and the nice compeling 
 challenge of... everything,
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cianmoran
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 15, 2007 2:17 am PT
Review:  I bought this game on a whim as it was cheap and it blew me away.
  I was around 11 and the amount of playability astounded me, I spent hours tinkering and restarting 
 my party as the opening level is surprisingly tough.
  
  You play four adventurers and can choose multiple races, all with strengths and weaknesses (Elves 
 are fast but frail whilst Dwarves are sturdy but have terrible coordination) also on offer are 
 multiple classes from the bog standard Knights and Wizard to the jack-of-all trades Rangers and 
 low maintenance monks.
  The difference between classes is based around their abilities to learn skills: a Druid's alchemy 
 level can go up to Grandmaster means he can create high level potions whereas a Cleric is limited 
 to the mediocore ones.
  
  Your party needs a balanced mix between the short and long term aims, sure a party of knights will 
 fly through the early levels but you'll be at a huge disadvantage when you come to enemies who 
 are only vulnerable to magic, likewise a character in plate-mail with an axe will certainly be able 
 to both dish it out and recieve it but will attack far too slowly until he's improved his skills.
 
  
  The key feature to the game is the choices you can make, after you've completed the tutorial mission, you'll 
 be thrust into a world of conflict. Having just acquired land you must firstly prove yourself as 
 a rulerHumans and Elves are on the brink of war over the territory you've just earned and both 
 are pressuring you to join them. Both offer you missions to perform and whoever you aid will result 
 in their being your master or you can perform all missions and serve yourself. The game really 
 kicks off when the arbiter dies, he has been the only thing keeping the Elves and Humans from each 
 other's throats and you are offered two choices for a replacement: the Wizards and Necromancers 
 both put forward a candidate and whoever you choose will have a profound effect on the war, either 
 causing it to escalate or else finding a solution. This point in the game marks your allignement, 
 either that of good or evil. Both offer quests and magical spells, but the key feature here is 
 the quests for character promotion. Your characters start out being a low level rank (Knights, Thieves, Paladins) 
 but then you can promote them within the neutral faction (Cavalier, Rogue, Cavalier) before finally 
 choosing an alliegance. Here your characters development can be changed, a good monk of the highest 
 ranking is a Master but an evil one is a Spy, a good knight is a Champion but an evil one is a Black 
 Knight. The huge amount of quests for each side ensure a good deal of playability.
  
  Might and Magic Vii has it's faults, the key one being the dated engine. The graphics are simple 
 and blurry when viewed up close but the game has other things going for it: the musical score is 
 wonderful, with Opera, Gregorian Chant and Orchestras when appropriate and the game has an ability 
 to suck you in, the game has an addictiveness which is hard to describe but the game has a huge 
 replay value.
  
  The game can be picked up for very little and I'd reccomend it to anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmso12
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 23, 2006 1:21 pm PT
Review:  They took everything that was great about MM6 and improved upon it. The gameplay is addictive, 
 the role playing element is fleshed-out, there are tons of areas to explore and conquer, there 
 are multiple ways to solve the game (2 endings, anyway) and at least 2 completely different ways 
 to play the game, and as a bonus, the mythology and history of Erathia are kept intact so the game 
 connects with the rest of 3D0's world.
  
  This is the best game of this type that I've ever played - I enjoyed this as much as I did the 
 Bard's Tale 3 when it came out (and I played that game through 3 times on 3 different OS) . My only 
 gripe (and I don't really care that much) is that the graphics are third-rate - but if you are 
 looking for a good game, you should overlook the graphics and enjoy a game that shines without 
 having to be techincally superior.
  
  RIP 3D0. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lysam
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 18, 2006 9:45 am PT
Review:  Might and Magic VII was very much like m&m 6 but improved in every way. Better controls (I. E. there 
 is an autorun) , better graphics, many more classes, different races. I enjoyed this game quite 
 a bit. Unfortunatly it does have problems. There is an exploitable bug in the game that allows 
 some dragons to drop multiple corpses. One could save after looting one of the corpses, and then 
 reload until multiples drop again. Basically it allowed you to get a whole lot of really good stuff 
 without a lot of effort (but a whole lot of time) . Another thing I found is this game could be 
 very aggrivating/difficult at times. There were some quests that just irked me to no end, especially 
 things that require (or at least it would help a lot to have) certain spells that you cannot get 
 until much much later. The plotline was a little weak, but interesting nonetheless. I had fun playing 
 it, and I have even played it through more than once, it just seemed weak to me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scotch69
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 26, 2006 2:38 pm PT
Review:  This game was easy to get into and master. It was challenging, but not so much it could not be 
 defeated. The graphics are a bit out-dated, but the gameplay more than makes up for this short 
 coming. Flying in the air and pelting titans and dragons with Meteor Showers never gets old. The 
 magic system is creative and gives you many options on how to attack your enemies. The story was 
 more concise and easier to grasp than M&M VI. The game makes me wish there were more games coming 
 out that involved parties that are single player and not on-line only. Bring on M&M VIII! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Govvy
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 6, 2007 4:08 am PT
Review:  I got this game for a bargain of 75p and it has to be the best value game I have ever brought. 
 This time in MM7 you have two paths to choose from, the light path or the dark path! Dont get 
 me wrong it does sound Star Wars ish, but it is really very unique and comes with some excellent 
 cut scenes.
  
  Again you start with your party of four beginning on a small island to enter a competition. The 
 prize this time is a castle to live in with lots of chests and cupboards to place all the really 
 cool artifacts and relics you find. You might need to give it a good house clean first! As always 
 it starts off tuff but if you keep plucking away at the enemy you will gain experience and then 
 be able to progress to the next level. When you find yourself facing the Kreegan again, you will 
 know your journey is close to finish. There are more characters to choose from, more skills to 
 learn and this time instead of being a Master, how about going for Grand Master. The gameplay is 
 very much the same as MM6 but the storyline carries on the same theme and the out come is determined 
 by your chosen path. Again the game comes with excellent music tracks for each area you enter and 
 the sound effects seem the same as before. Another classic in my book. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cartman55
Rating: 7.1
Date: Apr 3, 2006 6:44 pm PT
Review:  Might and Magic 7 is a good game. It is very fun for the first 10-15 hours. However, after this, 
 the game gets really repetitive. At the beginning this game is hard. You are very weak and can 
 barely survive a fight. Unfortunately, in the first area, there is a dragon. And a lot of fireflies 
 which will slaughter you quickly. The entire time, you will pretty much be casting fireball spells 
 and using the normal attack. If you enjoyed previous M&M games, and don't mind playing more of 
 the same, this is for you. Those looking for gameplay improvements over the previous installment, 
 look elsewhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: orange-thing
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 2, 2006 6:21 pm PT
Review:  Might & Magic 7 for blood and honour is, I think one of 1999's best RPG's. Sure the graphics really 
 bite now and weren't great 7 years ago either, but this game is great anyway. This game starts 
 you out with a huge selection of character classes (theif, Knight, Ranger, druid. etc.) & 4 character 
 races (human, goblin, elf, dwarf) . Each class has different skills (armsmaster, sword, dark magic, 
 Stealing, Perception, etc) & could be upgraded to better in or learn skills. Each class could also 
 be upgraded twice, The second upgrade depending on if you choose to be good or bad. 
  If you decide to be good or bad about half way through the game.
  over all it's just good and 
 big and long 
::::::

::::::
UserName: breaker581
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 14, 2006 12:30 pm PT
Review:  Without a doubt, this was the best game in the series. This game improved on the last one in several 
 areas, and was very enjoyable to play. One area of improvement over M&M 6, was in the dark spell 
 raise dead (or something like that) . I had a lot of fun toying with that spell and making armies 
 of undead fight for me. 
  The most noteworthy shortcoming in this game was the poor graphics, pretty dated even at the release. 
 This is still not enough however, to take away from the gameplay.
  Overall, a very enjoyable game and one worth picking up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fution2
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 8, 2005 2:17 pm PT
Review:  Usaully when ppl mention RPG's, one tend's to think of Baldur's gate and Elder scroll's.
  So why would anyone buy Might and magic??
  Strangely enough i would.
  I won't lie to, Might 
 and Magic VII for blood and honour is a very simplistic game, but sometime's the most simple game's 
 , are the most enjoyable.
  First thing which was great about MMVII , is the price, and let's face it, we all like a good bargain, 
 imo that is what MMVII is.
  MMVII remind's me of Legend's of valour , which use to be on the commodore Amiga. (which is not 
 a bad thing)
  The game start's you out on a small island, where you learn the basic's , how to fight and cast 
 spell's, basically do a few blue milk run's , to get you into the feel of thing's.
  Once you leave the first island, you are taken to your new town (which need's some serious cleaning 
 up) .
  Compared today's RPG's, MMVII obviously can't match up to most of them, but for the price and the 
 lastability of the game, i do think it's a worth while purchase, sort of take's you back to your 
 old PC or Amiga day's.
  If you have a spare 2-3 kicking about, and your bored, try this, it's quite addictive and fun 
 game to play.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: vastb005
Rating: 8.2
Date: Oct 21, 2004 11:49 am PT
Review:  While not having the gameplay hours of MMVI this still provides many hours of RPG enjoyment. In 
 VII the players are restricted by their class by which characters and skills they can learn and 
 to which level. There are more than enough main story and sidequests to keep you occupied for a 
 good long while, and as opposed to its predecessor you have to choose a dark and light path at 
 some time in the game, ensuring you will want to play at least a second time to discover the quests 
 you missed by trying the other side. 
  Otherwise it plays very similarly to MMVI so enthousiasts will have no problems starting the game 
 and playing immediately. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
