-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Mirror's Edge
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/mirrorsedge/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Flawless runs provide a total rush.
 Clean, striking visual design.
 Fantastic sound effects and music.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Frustrating amount of trial and error.
 Cramped jumping puzzles trip up the momentum.
 Combat and gunplay are weak.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan 13, 2009
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 8.1, 28 Review (s)
User Score: 8.3, 1,523 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Games
Developer: EA DICE
Genre: Modern First-Person...
Date:     Jan 12, 2009 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Mirror's Edge offers occasional thrills, provided that you can look past some awkward stumbles. 
 

  Like its heroine, Faith, Mirror's Edge tries to hurdle some significant obstacles, but unlike Faith, 
 it can't always make the leap. No doubt, this fascinating action platformer possesses its share 
 of innovations, from a first-person perspective to a clean and crisp visual style, yet it looks 
 to the past more than you may initially notice. This is a modern-day iteration of an old-fashioned 
 platformer, in which you're meant to play and replay sequences of jumps, grabs, and slides until 
 you get them perfect, or at least perfect enough to continue. But unlike its ancestors, Mirror's 
 Edge is more about speed and momentum, and when you can connect your moves in a flawless stream 
 of silky movement, it's eminently thrilling and satisfying. Unfortunately, Mirror's Edge has a 
 tendency to trip over its own feet, keeping you slipping and sliding blissfully along, only to 
 have a tedious jumping puzzle or hazy objective put the brakes on. Leaderboard chasers looking 
 to set a speed-run record will find Mirror's Edge to be pure gold. Others will give up, alienated 
 by the inherent trial and error of the game's basic design. At the very least, there's nothing 
 quite like it, and it deserves a cautious look from anyone who appreciates games that hew their 
 own path.  

           No matter how fast she runs, Faith can't always escape danger.      

  Faith is a runner, 
 in more ways than one. In the oppressed society of Mirror's Edge, runners are an underground network 
 of couriers, carrying sensitive information and documents from sender to receiver. The content 
 of these messages is never clear, and it doesn't matter much; rather, the story's conflict revolves 
 around Faith's sister, a cop who is framed for the murder of a mayoral candidate who promised to 
 bring change to the totalitarian government and bring hope to the runners living on the fringe. 
 Soon, Faith is running for a different reason: to uncover the conspiracy at the heart of the murder 
 and clear her sister's name. The story is straightforward, but it's interesting enough to keep 
 you involved, and though it ends with a sequel-hinting cliffhanger, it wraps up things enough to 
 feel fulfilling nonetheless. More intriguingly, the story plays out between missions in stylishly 
 animated cutscenes, as well as scenes within the game engine itself, which also look attractive 
 but feature a completely different art style. Both types look good, but the disparity is a little 
 odd.  

  And so you run, across rooftops, through train stations, and along walls. As you run, you pick 
 up speed and are able to string a number of moves together in rapid succession. You can slide under 
 pipes, bound over railings, and leap across impossible-looking chasms, among other techniques. 
 Of course, the most obvious twist in Mirror's Edge is that you do all of this from a first-person 
 view, rather than with the typical third-person camera that we've come to expect. It's an interesting 
 spin, if not wholly new, and it has a way of immersing you as you speed toward your destination. 
 Actions such as balancing on a narrow beam, sliding under a ledge at top speed, and tumbling when 
 you land a long jump are fun to execute and look neat, but it may also make you wonder how much 
 fun it would be to see what Faith looks like when she pulls off these neat stunts, which isn't 
 possible in this game.  

  Nevertheless, Mirror's Edge excels when you hit that snappy stride, and once you've found the best 
 route through a particularly tricky scenario, it's exhilarating to rush through it without a care 
 to weigh you down. But this doesn't happen the first time you do it, or even the fifth time. You 
 will need to experiment and hone your skills, given that a simple mistake can send you plunging 
 down onto the street below, or will at very least interrupt your stride. You're expected to play 
 each level multiple times to learn the routes that best propel you along, which is great the 10th 
 time around but is often an infuriating series of false starts, mistimed jumps, and full stops 
 during the first few attempts. If you need a hand, you can hold a button to activate runner vision, 
 which turns the camera toward your destination, but it's an imprecise solution that sometimes points 
 you toward a short-term objective and at other times points you toward your long-term goal.  

 
           Geronimo!      

  Another inconsistently helpful tool comes directly from the game's impressive art design. Mirror's 
 Edge is a game of visual contrasts, in which stark white environments contrast with vivid colors. 
 It looks beautiful and clean, and it's a great way of demonstrating both the bleakness of an authoritarian 
 society and the unique manner in which a runner would see the world -- as an array of landing points 
 and jumping opportunities. Important ramps, doorways, ladders, and other points of interest are 
 painted in a vibrant red, which is an important visual cue in some of the broader levels. However, 
 this element too is delivered inconsistently; in some cases, the red hue may not fade in until 
 you are close to the pole or vaulting point in question, and in other cases, Mirror's Edge expects 
 you to figure things out without this visual assistance.  

  For a game that relies on so much forward momentum, Mirror's Edge has a way of bringing the pace 
 to a halt. Sometimes this is because of the nature of trial-and-error gameplay: fall, die, reload 
 checkpoint. At other times, it's because you're faced with an intricate jumping puzzle that eschews 
 the sense of speed entirely, such as one that has you descending into the depths of the water-supply 
 system and then up again. These aren't bad, but they're not particularly engaging, either; you're 
 likelier to feel relieved rather than fulfilled when you reach your destination. Or you'll be zooming 
 along, only to find yourself in an elevator, reading the news crawl on the wall's electronic panel 
 while the level apparently loads in the background. In all of these cases, you're torn from the 
 experience and reminded that this is, after all, just a game.  

  Armed enemies further complicate matters. It's best to run right past them when possible, but their 
 bullets have a way of bringing you to your knees as you rush around looking for the best escape 
 route. Some foe-heavy scenarios are particularly annoying, such as a sniper-loaded sequence in 
 the final level. You can confront the threat head-on in some cases, but it requires careful planning 
 and excellent timing. You can perform some close-combat moves such as jump kicks and punches, but 
 these are best when used as hit-and-run tactics; trying to engage in melees with more than one 
 or two enemies at a time is a quick path to the most recent checkpoint. Conversely, you can disarm 
 an enemy in a quick-time event, pressing the disarm button when your foe's weapon flashes red. 
 If you want to hold on to it, you can fire off a few shots until the clip runs out. However, Faith 
 is ultravulnerable to gunfire, and the gunplay is loose and unfulfilling. If you have trouble keeping 
 things in check (it takes some split-second timing to land a pitch-perfect disarm) , you can enter 
 a limited-use slow-motion mode, which comes in handy and makes some of these action-focused moves 
 look cool, though it ultimately doesn't add much to the gameplay.  

  If you can overlook the array of quirks long enough to find your stride, you'll want to check out 
 the beat-your-record races and level speed runs. Both modes feature online leaderboards, and both 
 cater to the players likeliest to get the most out of Mirror's Edge. In a sense, the single-player 
 story is simply a practice run for being a virtual show-off, yet the players repeating these levels 
 (who will learn them to perfection) are also the ones likely to see Mirror's Edge at its most thrilling. 
 You will want to break out an Xbox 360 controller if you want to get the most out of the experience. 
 The keyboard-and-mouse setup is decent but occasionally awkward, and it can't compete with the 
 interesting (but intuitive) gamepad controls.  

           You'll be seeing red, both literally and figuratively.      

  The unusually crisp 
 visuals have seen some nice additional touches on the PC, such as fluttering industrial plastic 
 over a few doorways, and symbolic flags undulating in the wind. The audio also deserves high praise. 
 Sound effects such as Faith's breathy heaves and plodding footsteps are authentic touches that 
 heighten the sense of speed and tension. The voice acting is equally terrific, but it's the pulsing, 
 driving soundtrack that impresses most. Its rhythmic flow augments Faith's most fluid runs, whereas 
 subtle ambient chords fill in the silence during downtimes. The superb musical journey culminates 
 in a fantastic vocal track that plays during the game's final credits.  

  Mirror's Edge is many things: invigorating, infuriating, fulfilling, and confusing. It isn't for 
 everybody, and it stumbles often for a game that holds velocity in such high esteem. But even with 
 all of its foibles and frustrations, it makes some impressive leaps; it just doesn't nail the landing. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (87 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: pryst
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 16, 2009 11:54 am PT
Review:  The storyline wasn't anything special but the presentation (graphics, decor, theme, crisp sound, 
 finished product + glitches close to none) made up for it.
  The animation cut scenes and in game pov cinematics were balanced and smoothed the flow of the 
 narrative. This gave a cohesive body to the game, seamlessly moving between levels adding an element 
 of persistence driving you to continue playing to the end.
  This, in a way justifies the short story (4-6 hours) which played more like an interactive movie 
 rather than game.
  The combat made sense with what was going on in game. Playing the role of a traceur courier, its 
 understandable that Faith (main character) is more evasive rather than confrontational + lacking 
 training and tactics in armed assault justifying the stunted heavy weapons combat.
  However, that said, once the single player campaign is finished there's little reason to continue 
 playing. The speed run and time trial that come with the game can be fun, but racing through levels 
 played previously gets boring pretty quick if not straight away. Though if chasing after shadows 
 of your best time sounds good, it might interest you for a while longer. The map pack really made 
 up for a lot of lost potential. 
  A little more freedom of movement in single player, rather than the occasional short cut or alternate 
 access would have been nice.
  Good game but if you know ways of getting it cheap, its worth the buy. Retail price is a bit high 
 compared to the amount of time you'll actually be playing it for.
  On the other hand if your in to the way a game is presented (not just graphics wise) in terms of 
 design its an okay buy.
  
  peace 
::::::

::::::
UserName: keisuke1
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 15, 2009 7:39 am PT
Review:  Beautiful graphics and environments but crappy story that is so empty and shallow that it looks 
 like they just slapped this on the game and called it done.
  
  PC controls are great and easy to use, physics enabled aren't really noticeable when it's intended 
 to be a fast pace game.
  
  But the story is no more then an episode in show, at least if it was longer because once you beat 
 this game once, you may have a hard time playing through again, considering the game is over 7GB.
 
  
  Rent it first because it is may get repetitive for some but may still be a great experience for 
 others. With such a great unique game it's a shame they couldn't use it's realistic environment 
 and apply it to a story that consisted of strong characters that brings intimacy to the player 
 when the game comes to an end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: azureslayer
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 12, 2009 3:00 pm PT
Review:  Bought the game few days ago and just finished it, i would have tried it sooner but from the review 
 I've read before i thought this was a mediocre game, a classical good idea bad implementation scenario, 
 which is not the case.
  
  What makes Mirror's Edge a great game:
  
  First person: Shakes the cliche fps definition, which is you kill and/or blow up everything that 
 moves. If you're willing yo put the effort needed into it you can actually feel you're the one 
 jumping from roof to roof, which is why classify this game as a first person rpg. This is also 
 the strongest element of the game imo.
  
  The Story: While not completely new, it captures your attention, doesn't bore you and most importantly 
 doesn't interrupt the game play. Story is solid though, it can be turned into a good movie script 
 with little or no effort.
  
  Graphics: Graphics are amazing, the colors, the minimalism everything, once again this game shakes 
 an another cliche; great graphics = crytek engine. Even though im not a fan of the particular graphic 
 style i loved it, they just fit the game. Art department did a great job.
  
  Sound&Music: Once again great, you're not actually aware of the sound and music when you're playing, 
 but it enhances the game play which is how it should be.
  
  Game play: Fast paced, fun and when combined with the rpg style first person it guarantees a great 
 experience. Game doesn't repeat itself and become monotonous as you play it (which was my biggest 
 concern) . You can actually reach you goal by following different paths, even different play styles. 
 Nothing to bother you on screen (no hud) when you're playing, well transgression from game to story 
 videos. Game can actually be replayed, in fact imo you will enjoy the game more when you're playing 
 it the second time. Race mode can satisfy the competitive players out there, it also works as a 
 great small game if you're just looking for a quick action during your 15 minute brake :)
  
  
  There are a few cons, first and most important one is trial and error deaths, there were 
 3-4 times where i died like 20 times under 10 minutes, which is not only frustrating but it also 
 breaks the rpg element of the game, you obviously disassociate yourself from the character in these 
 cases which can cause you to quit the game and never return unless you're interested in the story. 
 Another con is story mode doesn't last long (you can finish it in 1 day, even though if you're you're 
 playing for the first time)
  
  Verdict: 9/10 
  If it wasn't for those trial and error death moments it would have been a 10. Whoever you are whatever 
 your favorite genre is you should try this game, if you happen to be a minimalistic guy who likes 
 puzzles and rpg's and fast paced action games and parkour this game will definitely be in your 
 top 5.
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BoomWav
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 3, 2009 11:00 am PT
Review:  Mirror's Edge is really alone of its genre. As it was stated in many reviews, this game is a parkour 
 game. It's way more than that however.
  
  The designers really broke the boundaries by making an adventure game in first person. They could 
 have stayed with the trend of the Prince of Persia titles but they did not. Instead, they bet on 
 the immersion.
  
  The immersion
  They push the immersion to the limits of what has been done in the recent years. When you play 
 this game, you are Fayth. You forget about your own body. You breath with her, with each leap between 
 two building, your muscle will tense. I'm not even talking of the times where you fail and actually 
 fell off the 19 story high building. You'll feel worst for dieing in this game than any other game 
 out there. However, after some time, when all you want is beat your fastest time, you get insensible, 
 but.. it's still serious stuff. I think only to feel the immersion of this game, it's worth trying.
 
  
  The game itself
  The story is clich and short. When you replay you feel like it's dragging too. However, the time-trial 
 and speed-run mode add tons of gameplay time. Time-trial let you play in various environment you 
 went to in the story mode. There's various checkpoints you must do in order. The goal is to make 
 the run as fast as you can. You can download ghosts from top players and friends. It's really addictive 
 too and you won't do it in your first run. You can easily trial and error for 1 hour on a 3minutes 
 run. However, when you do get a good speed and the best jumps, it's really awesome and rewarding. 
 The speed runs let you replay the chapters of the story mode but this time, you are timed so you 
 must do it as fast as you can. It can really add a lot of gameplay if you plan of mastering it.
 
  
  Mastering the game
  Mastering Fayth every move can be really tricky. It's more than only jumping around pipes and building. 
 You need the BEST speed. You don't want to loose precious seconds because you jumped too short 
 and had to hang on the side of the building. To be successful, you'll usually need some serious 
 timing and rely on advanced technique. Double jump for example isn't described everywhere. If you 
 run fast enough, you can do another jump right after you landed one, even if you landed on a pipe! 
 There's also various drops that are faster if you just drop forward instead of jumping and rolling. 
 You can also do the entire game without jump-coiling. However, once you get it right, you can save 
 some precious seconds. No, techniques in Mirror's Edge are numerous. These advanced technique are 
 optional for the story but if you want 3 stars on every maps, you'll absolutely need them. The 
 office is a good example. While you ran random until you were on top in story mode, you have to 
 do it in less than 28 seconds to get 3 stars and you know what? I've seen ghosts of people finding 
 ways to do it in around 15 seconds. Yes, climb 6 stories in 15 seconds.
  
  I hope other game companies use the immersion concept of this game to create more innovative game.
 
  
  Mirror's Edge was successful for me and I think every gamer that'd like a new gameplay experience 
 should try it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: diablo4xp
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 3, 2009 8:10 am PT
Review:  the game takes new prespective that gives you the looks and feel of realistic action and stunts 
 i and you and anyone in the wide world would ever dream of doing it ,, really amazing game.
  
  new graphic i really enjoy looking at every detail in the game ,, literally every thing,,
 
  
  as for me sometimes i felt like when the character you are playing falls from a high place,, was 
 so real that toke my breath out coz the sound is really great too, will make you hear the sound 
 of the breathing of the character you are playing with, and you will sympathy with it, so you won't 
 fail in the game and let your heart lead her way.. really somthing i won't forget.
  
  the game worth playing in all times of the world,, you going to enjoy every inch , corner , stunt 
 in this new in prespective game,, 
  
  in the end .. i really salute the Mirror's edge team and say many many thanks on this great work 
 of art
  
  and waiting for more games such as beauty like this more to come...
  
  diablo4xp 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nomailx
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 23, 2009 6:35 pm PT
Review:  first, imagine how this game would be great if they added a shooting sequence as in Rainbow six 
 Vegas. (first person when running, semi 3rd person when shooting) . wow. they missed this one out.
 
  
  The good: 
  
  -Prince of Persia in First Person.
  
  The Bad: 
  
  - Obvious Platforms just put in rooftops so we can jump? Who put them there? Huge lack of credibility. 
 How many of you leave in a building with boards for runners?
  
  - Too much Indoor gameplay, while "parcours" is an outdoor activity. (french and original name of 
 what this sport is. It has been invented by french immigrants) .
  
  - The Game doesn't look great as said in the original review. It looks like a 6 years old painted 
 all the buldings with the only color he knew. White. Everything is white in the game, with some 
 blue, red, and yellow here and there.
  
  - The sound is also very bad. Except for the girl exhaling while running, the shooting sound really 
 a mess, and.. wait. there are no other sound in the game!
  
  - Errors, crashes, and bugs everywhere. Patch your game.
  
  that will be it.
  
  ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djalmax
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 23, 2009 5:53 am PT
Review:  When it comes to speed, many think of racing or general sports games, even some fps like Unreal 
 are relevant in this topic. But when you're looking for speed and a really fast paced game, then 
 Mirror's Edge comes out and reveal itself. For a brief introduction, Mirror's Edge is a first person 
 action game based on the well know Le Parkour physical activity established by the French David 
 Belle. For those who don't know, Le Parkour is an amazing physical activity that wraps every little 
 aspect of the physical human body, it likens to martial arts, but it's more like a running and 
 escape art.
  ***
  Mirror's edge is a great representant of it's own genre, it's a great mix of the Parkout itself, 
 some minor shooting parts and it's pretty much close to reality. Yeah, of course it's almost impossible 
 for a human being to do all that stuff in the game, but it's still one of the most realistic games 
 of the new generation of gaming. So, what's the game after all? Run, shoot, run, run just once 
 more and solve the conspiracy of an unfortunately clich story.
  ***
  When the city becomes a place where the population has no voice and politics and security have 
 taken the place of the democracy, runners come out to do the work that it isn't possible anymore, 
 to take and bring information. You are one of the information angels, the rooftops are your playground 
 and running is just a part of your job. You play the game as Faith, an asian look girl who is quite 
 strong, fast and independent. You are guided by Mercury a runner that has taught Faith everything 
 she knows and you still have the support and friendship of Celeste a runner as well.
  ***
  As the game starts you'll see yourself in a kind of training area that is just a random rooftop 
 for you to get familiar with the game, of course you can skip this tutorial whenever you want, 
 although it's pretty important. This tutorial is like a quick preview of the game, it basically 
 shows you what's the game like in the calm parts of it. Here you'll learn how to do wall run, jump 
 over fences, slide under pipes and a lot more. Love it or hate, if you think the tutorial sucks, 
 unfortunately you've wasted your money, because the rest of the game won't change your opinion 
 for sure. 
  ***
  You will quickly notice that although you can do many things you aren't any god, you have your 
 limits, you can't reach some high places, you can't fall from a long height, etc. But there's no 
 need to worry because it's quite cool to just play for fun. You can't judge the game only thinking 
 in the Le Parkour, you have to judge it considering that Mirror's Edge is just a game, a humble 
 simulation and in fact the producers did their job quite well.
  ***
  Let's head to the main topics of a game, Gameplay and Single Player mode. The gameplay is very 
 good and I'll try to describe it just in the way it is. As a first person game, in the beginning 
 you find the gameplay a little awkward, but at the end of the prologue stage you'll already got 
 familiar with the controls. The controls are just fine, for sure it won't be any trouble for anyone, 
 they are sharp, responsive and very easy to learn. Everybody that play FPS games won't have any 
 problem here, W, S, A, D, SPACE, SHIFT, MOUSE 1, MOUSE 2, that's pretty much the basics of the 
 controls here. 
  ***
  (I will open a paragraph here just to explain how I was playing just when I bought the game, when 
 I was a newbie! Seriously, I stopped every time to look at the beautiful landscapes and the high 
 detailed world, I couldn't help myself, the game is beautiful. Then I realized I was dying to much 
 and I started to play the game to the reverse side of paying attention to the details. Was there 
 that I really started enjoying the game, because the game is not about you stopping every time 
 to take a look at the graphics or anything, the game is all about speed, it's a really fast paced 
 game, speed is everything.)
  ***
  So, anyway, you jump over fences, run across the walls, slide under pipes, etc. That's basically 
 the obstacles of the game but of course when you have to run really fast, even the easiest thing 
 becomes difficult. Not only non-living obstacles are present, of course you have human enemies, 
 from a simple cop to a high armed and armored swat soldier. This takes us to the combat system. 
 The combat system is kind of ok but it could be so much better that after a while you'll get tired 
 of it. When you have an encounter you can fight with your bare hands with your enemy or you can 
 disarm them. Most of the times the best option is to disarm them, to do that you have to press 
 the button at the right time, then you get your enemy's weapon and you can use it until the ammo 
 is over. The shooting is very good it isn't as realistic as games focused on FPS but it's rather 
 nice. But back to the combat system, the real big problem is the disarmed combat. It should be 
 and it could be a lot better, because it lacks in almost every aspect a good disarmed combat should 
 present. You have such a few moves, practically one combo and some other boring moves. There is 
 still some useful moves like the wall kick that turn your opponent 180 leaving him vulnerable 
 for you to disarm him, but overall it's so boring and limited that you won't bother yourself fighting 
 in any occasion, you'll just run to avoid all the combat you can. 
  ***
  The single player campaign is very nice although after a while it will appear to be repetitive. 
 You have a lot of different levels to play, like in the streets, rooftops, inside buildings, a 
 dock and a lot more. Many may think that every level would be the same thing because all you have 
 to do is run to the end of it, but that's wrong. Although you indeed do almost the same things 
 in each level, they change a lot from one to another, some of them need speed while others you 
 have to sneak and use strategies to fool your enemy. The real truth is, if you think the game is 
 cool while playing the prologue, you'll love it to the very end and most players will probably 
 check the game again in hard mode.
  ***
  To finish the gameplay review, let's just say that it's overall very good!
  ***
  One thing 
 that for sure would call everyone attention is the sound. The sound effects are great, you can 
 easy notice it just in the tutorial level, when you hear Faith's footsteps, when she grab in something, 
 when she breaths or when she expires a strong breath/voice while jumping. Everything seems to be 
 in order when talking about the sound effects, it's really something they put some effort into. 
 The music is nice, but it won't call your attention as the sound effects, although there are some 
 great hits full of energy, most of the time there won't be any music and it will be up to your 
 imagination to do the work. It grants you with a good atmosphere, but it could be better.
  ***
  Graphics! Now that's something that is relevant to everyone's interests. The ultimate gaming 
 generation requires games with good graphics, because unfortunately it's good graphics that catch 
 most of the players nowadays. Mirror's Edge is not the best example of the ultimate graphics out 
 there, but graphics here are great, not perfect and it's not deign of the brand new graphics engines 
 but it's still great! Most of gamers are familiar with the Unreal 3 Engine (sorry for the informality, 
 but for me Unreal 3 is the best engine out there, like miles away from any other. It presents player 
 with smooth graphics and the ULTIMATE terrific gameplay, without the need of great computers, just 
 an average pc can run Unreal 3 engines at it's best shape) and that's what Mirror's Edge all about, 
 the good graphics and the gameplay that unreal 3 engine offers you. The PC version of Mirror's 
 Edge has some great graphics, because you can change the resolution and add some great anti-aliasing 
 effects. If I'm not mistaken, Mirror's Edge is the first game to offers player with the Physx effects 
 of Nvidia, which shows player, effects like the real physics in real life. It's such a nice effect 
 that no ordinary pc would handle it, you must have a great pc to run it. My pc for example can't 
 handle the Physx, so I checked it on my friend's house. Anyway, Mirror's Edge presents player with 
 great colorful graphics, high detailed world and beautiful effects, but it can't be considered 
 a good example of the ultimate graphic out there.
  ***
  Everything sounds great, but unfortunately it isn't. Mirror's Edge is a high level game, but it's 
 defects can easily overwhelm it's cost and it's purpose. What is this purpose? To surprise and 
 make an impact! Mirror's Edge came out as a dangerous project with a high chance to risk, it was 
 beyond anything players have ever seen. The producers all knew that it was good idea, but a love 
 or hate idea. Maybe the game was capable of doing it's job, it surprised many with it's great graphics 
 and gameplay, but it has no excuse for being a top game that has so many flaws. If they spent so 
 much time producing this great game, they could have time to fix some bugs, time to do some upgrades 
 and time to add more stuff to the game. Nobody wants to pay US$ 49,99 for a short single player 
 campaign, a weak plot and no multiplayer option. Maybe I'm being a little too hard now, but the 
 lifetime of this game is the shortest one I've seen in years, don't expect to play it more than 
 two weeks, because that ain't gonna happen!
  ***
  In conclusion, Mirror's Edge is a great game that unfortunately could have been much better. But 
 this is common, many games out there came out and you feel like it is incomplete, that's the Mirror' 
 Edge case. Sadly if there one thing that must be said is that this game is not worth the price. 
 It's not worthy, but is a must 'check' game for everyone, I seriously mean that, everyone should 
 play this game at least once, buy it (if you have don't have problem with money) , rent it, play 
 on a friend's house, everything counts, just be fair and give it a try. 
  ***
  If you can pay for the game, you'll enjoy a fast and great ride in the parkour world! 
  ***
 
  *Please, sorry for my bad english*
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: codename_halo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 16, 2009 3:47 am PT
Review:  Well this game is innovative, in a very good and exciting way innovative, despite of being a little 
 bit too short, this game delivers a very exciting and refreshing gameplay, embedded in a very well 
 done and realistic environment, for instance the lighting effects are innovation on their own and 
 I've actually heard that they upgraded the unreal engine's lighting system because of this game, 
 the other thing about this game is the physical effects that are also very realistic and believable, 
 this game is designed in a way that you actually feel you are in the game since you can actually 
 feel a rush of adrenalin in your blood and you are also made to think and act very faster than 
 usual, because all you have in this game is your speed, that's why your called a "Runner".
  
  Why "Runner", And what does a runner do? Well you are called that because you run and jump 
 from one rooftop to another and from one building to another very, very rapidly, and what you initially 
 do is delivering important packages and messages to important clients and that's due to the very 
 strict monitoring system of the standard communication methods of that time, but that sort of extends 
 into also running for your own life going deeper through the story.
  
  Well the story itself isn't that bad and has its own turns and twists, basically you are part of 
 a secret, pursued and wanted by the government group called runners trained in parkour (moving as 
 fast as you can in any type of environment) that are helping particular wings of the government 
 and also individual clients for the sake of freedom from the governments dictatorship, but the mysterious 
 and controversial death of one of the mayoral candidates for the upcoming mayoral election puts 
 Runners and particularly one of them,"Faith" (the protagonist aka you) in the center of the controversy 
 and accused of murdering the mayor elect, and that's where you start to run for your life, really 
 fast! the characters, their personality and their characteristics are unique and thought through, and 
 also the cinematic scenes although done in 2D animation (or at least rendered as 2d) are very well 
 done.
  The game itself is technically a First Person Shooter and you can actually grab a gun from the 
 special forces that are pursuing you (being able to beat them down first of course!) , but it's not 
 very practical considering the fact that you aren't meant to be a shooter, and besides, it won't 
 be your best fps experience, but it's out there and you actually have the choice to advance in 
 the game through shooting your enemies down and although it is sometimes necessary to do so, most 
 of the time you can simply and beautifully use your true skill which is leaving them behind in 
 a blink of an eye. 
  
  Another issue that bugged me a little beside it's shortness, was that it's a very resource hungry 
 game, although considering it being happen in a very wide open world most of the time, with a lot 
 of lighting effects, I guess you can't blame it, but I managed to play it somewhat smoothly on 
 a medium graphics level on 1024 * 768 with a geforce 8600 and 2 gigs of ram, so all and all it's 
 a very fun, refreshing, exciting and fast game, and if you enjoy jumping around in prince of Persia 
 and tomb raider then you'll probably enjoy Mirror's Edge a lot.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LGTX
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 9, 2009 7:43 am PT
Review:  When Mirror's Edge was first announced along with a couple of amazing screenshots, every single 
 gamer in the world decided that the future was here: First person platforming, along with breathtaking 
 tricks, optional gunplay and an amazing futuristic design. What else did we need? As it appeared, 
 a little more.
  
  The first thing that must be said about the story is that it doesn't quite deliver the promised 
 intrigue of the totalitarian governments of the future, it merely exists to make the otherwise 
 unexplainable rooftop runs genuine. The main heroine, Faith, is a Runner, a courier who operates 
 via rooftops to deliver critical information to her clients, who can't get it otherwise because 
 every single type of communications are strictly monitored. The story takes off with one of the 
 Mayor candidates being murdered - and Faith's sister, Kate, made the prime suspect. After a tricky 
 set-up Faith becomes the main target, and is forced to use her abilities to sort out the conspiracy 
 and save her sister. There are no deliveries, as mentioned above (except for a brief prologue) , 
 and the story mainly makes us pursue/escape a target.
  
  The real deal here is the innovative gameplay. We have all got used to seeing a gun in the player's 
 hand if the perspective is first-person - But Faith is a Runner, and with her main weapon being 
 speed, she can't afford carrying anything that can slow her down. You can pick up guns if you want 
 to- but almost every single one of them makes doing tricks impossible, and Faith automatically 
 throws them away after spending one clip. The gunplay mechanics themselves are not as polished 
 as they should be, either.
  
  Now, the platforming. The mechanics are a little hard to get used to - This is a rare game, where 
 speed, momentum and inertia play actual physical roles. But after a brief tutorial you become a 
 pro in no time. The controls are cleverly basic - movement, interaction, quick-turn, disarm and 
 two more buttons we can call "jump" and "duck", but they actually are context-dependent. If you 
 are running at full speed, duck becomes slide. In mid-air, it becomes roll and etc. These simplified 
 controls guarantee that you will be running across the level like wind on your second hour of playing, 
 and that's a maximum.
  
  And the levels themselves are interesting. The rooftops provide some genuine height feelings (jumping 
 from one skyscraper to another the first time took my breath away) , and the brief speedruns through 
 buildings are perfect for practicing hand-to-hand combat. Which is, by the way, complex and simple 
 at the same time. You just have to let the enemy hit you, and just before he hits you have to push 
 the disarm button. On lesser difficulties it is assisted by highlighting, but it's still hard on 
 tougher cops. That's where Reaction Time kicks in. The alternative to bullet-time, it slows down 
 the world and lets you react faster than you normally would. Successful disarms result in instant 
 takedowns. Of course, it's an option NOT to wait for the cops to build up the punch and pummel 
 them to death.
  
  I would like to talk a little more about momentum. We have a main rule in the game, which advises 
 us to "keep to the flow". The Flow is, in fact, the maximum speed Faith can gain, where the screen 
 starts to distort and you manage to do basic tricks almost without slowing down. Stopping, taking 
 hard turns or bumping in a wall breaks the Flow, and you'll have to build up the momentum from 
 the beginning.
  
  To sum it up, the gameplay is great, with small flaws and a steep learning curve. But if it wasn't 
 for the ingenious design, the game would be worthless.
  Every single centimeter is soaked in futuristic atmosphere. Buildings, streets, interiors - are 
 all pristine, clean, with the dominant color being white. The marvelous minimalistic design of 
 the interiors provide an effect no less. The textures are sharp, clear - All in all, the game pretty 
 much stands out from the other First-person games as being one the most bright, futuristically 
 looking pieces of software up-to date. 
  
  The sound, too, has no misses. Excellent soundtrack, great voice talent (Even the panting and coughing 
 as you run, climb and get hit are recorded with impressive attention) and generally good audio 
 content.
  
  But it must be said that the game has it's flaws. The gameplay is fast-paced, but the constant 
 checkpoints simplify it a little bit, and at the last hours the level-design starts to flatter 
 as you're faced with more and more impossible feats. The PC-port, minus the high-res textures and 
 PhysX Support, isn't as optimized as some would prefer, and the developers even had to release 
 a patch to fix a potential freezing issue.
  
  But whatever the cost, the developers delivered their promise, and free-running has never been 
 so satisfying and impressive. The game is planned as a trilogy, so let's hope the formula will 
 be polished to perfection by the time the second part comes out. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: me4656
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 1, 2009 1:48 pm PT
Review:  I have to admit... I was kind of careful about this game before since I thought that I wouldnt like 
 it too much but now that I have tried it (and completed it) I see how wrong I was! As I said... The 
 one and only flaw of this game is that its way too short... But otherwise... Its the one of the best 
 games I have played in three years!
  I love the gameplay, the "blues" (baddies of the game) really crack up the tension (especially 
 the "running" ones...) and its great to do those crazy stunts in first person view. The soundtrack 
 is also amazing! (although sometimes somewhat bizarre since you a r e running on rooftops and the 
 music is calm?) The visuals are great too. I love the use of strong colors. I dont know what else 
 to say... There just isnt much more t o say!
  I strongly recommend it to... well... any gamer out looking for a great new gaming experience!
 
  
  
  Thank you for reading this review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gggames_se
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 26, 2009 1:38 pm PT
Review:  The protagonist Faith is part of an underground group of people called Runners who operate in an 
 Orwellian society. Due to the city being overwhelmed with security the Runners serve the purpose 
 of delivering messages physically between different parties by exercising parkour. One day Faith 
 receives a distress call from her sister Kate who works as a police officer. This turns out to 
 be far worse than Faith could have imagined as a candidate for the mayoral election has been assassinated 
 in the same room where Kate is present - thus making her a prime suspect. With her sister being 
 framed and a mayor candidate assassinated, Faith sets out to find the truth and to save her sister.
 
  
  Unlike many first-person shooters, Mirror's Edge focuses on melee combat and movement. At first 
 the controls feel a bit awkward but they become almost natural after only minutes of playing, so 
 the learning curve of this game is close to none. This is simply so because the game is too forgiving, 
 making it too easy as it almost requires no effort from the player. It is still quite an experience 
 to leap between buildings and other various obstacles as you are dodging bullets and being chased. 
 The first person view point really makes you feel the presence in this game. The game is heavy 
 on showing you your own body, arms and legs interacting with the game world.
  While the game isn't technically a shooter type game, it still features firearms that you can indeed 
 pick up and use, but the game does remind you in different ways why combat should be avoided and 
 thus making the weapons useless - most of time anyways.
  
  Mirror's Edge is a game where running is the key, and doing so without stopping increases your 
 momentum which allows you to overcome obstacles. While you can still most of the time take your 
 time and plan your jumps it is still recommended that you keep a constant speed. The game helps 
 you in your journey through what is known as Color Coding, meaning that various usable key objects 
 will completely be colored red and that way aid the player. It gives you a clear indication on 
 what you should do and where you should go. At first you may consider this ridiculous and a sort 
 of lame "easy mode", but it's highly useful and you still need to use your reflexes to successfully 
 make the jumps or whatever action you need to perform.
  
  The main focus of the game is to allow the player to move as swiftly through the levels as possible 
 and make it as realistic as possible. So naturally you have plenty of tricks and moves you can 
 perform such as wall running but not only can you run on walls for a short period of time but you 
 can also jump from a wall to a ledge and so on.
  
  The secondary focus of this game is the combat system and it is not satisfying at all - but it 
 does allow you to take down enemies in a matter of seconds if your timing is right. The combat 
 allows you to not only punch and kick but also disarm enemies which instantly knocks them out. 
 The regular attacks that Faith has are rather weak and overall not useful but that is how it was 
 intended as the game encourages you to avoid combat all together.
  So you are left with one option that is both useful and rather easy to use and that is to disarm 
 your opponents. This can only be done when you are right in front of your target. As the enemy 
 takes a swing at you their gun will turn red for a brief moment and when that happens you must 
 quickly press a button leading to a fancy looking disarmament of the opponent. While it's incredibly 
 hard to time it right you are given the ability to slow down the entire game making it a lot easier. 
 This can be done at any point in the game but it only lasts for a couple of seconds. In order to 
 be able to use this ability again you need to traverse a specified amount of distance but it's 
 all done in the background, invisible to the player which is great as it doesn't steal away anything 
 from the game.
  
  As mentioned above the weapons in this game are rather useless but in rare occasions they can be 
 extremely useful. It is important to remember that you only get one clip of ammo and you cannot 
 find additional ammunition. Neither can you perform any acrobatic movements while carrying a gun 
 but this only applies to the heavier weapons. The game features a decent amount of weapons such 
 as handguns, submachine guns, assault rifles, shotguns and sniper rifles.
  
  The game has an excellent Story Mode in which you discover the truth behind the matter and it is 
 rather deep in its development. It is however short and only offers you a couple of hours of gameplay. 
 It is short and sweet in other words. There are two other game modes for those who aren't satisfied 
 with just the Story Mode, and these are the Time Trial Mode and Speed Run Mode. The Time Trial 
 Mode lets you play against a ghost runner and allows you to set time records on 24 different short 
 maps (once you have unlocked them all) . Records can also be posted online so you can share your 
 times and compete with other peoples best runs.
  The Speed Run Mode allows you to choose any level from the game and you must then try to finish 
 it as quickly as possible - nothing complex but extremely difficult and challenging.
  
  Whilst playing you will stumble upon Runner Bags which are often very hidden. These will unlock 
 extra features such as concept art, music and videos for those willing to go through the levels 
 over and over again. Unfortunately this does make you wish that you could unlock something of more 
 value like new levels to play.
  
  The graphics are new and refreshing. It's very bright and the colors are vivid and vibrant. It 
 makes the atmosphere very believable and it increases the feeling that "everything is all right" 
 while underneath the shiny surface things are very corrupt and rotten. The visual style blends 
 a sterile look with glaring colors. It is extremely well done and it makes the game stand out. 
 The levels are full with neat little details, and it's just a treat to move around in the game 
 world.
  The game features cut scenes where rather than using the graphics from the game they decided to 
 make something entirely different which is both bold and divergent  these cut scenes resemble 
 a stylish cartoon, almost like an anime. It fits the game and story perfectly.
  
  The soundtrack is also absolutely amazing. It goes incredibly well with the premise and setting 
 of the game. It seems like the they made the perfect choice when it came to picking background 
 music which is a intense mixture of electronic songs. The music really takes you into the game, 
 and uplifts the atmosphere. The game does feature voice acting and a great deal of it actually 
 but don't expect anything out of the ordinary. However, it is there and it does its job.
  
  Despite the fact that the game is extremely short and easy it does have its values. It does undoubtedly 
 contain some very exciting moments but sadly it's not long lasting. The game does get boring rather 
 quickly because the Story Mode is the only reasonable thing to play here. The other game modes 
 feel unnecessary and almost tucked on there as empty filling. Mirror's Edge is entertaining for 
 the short time it lasts and it is one of those games that shows that creativity isn't dead just 
 yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameObserver
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 25, 2009 9:08 am PT
Review:  Mirror's Edge is something to keep your tattooed eye on. The game is not quite ready to be a masterpiece 
 but it might eventually get there if EA actually listens to critics. It's a slick journey through 
 a vivid world, but it is also encumbered with painfully frustrating hurdles and precarious gameplay. 
 Players beware: you will curse. 
  
  The main problem with Electronic Art's new baby is the pacing. We have a game based around freestyling 
 ("parkouring", for all you Euro-types) , which translates to large dozes of running and jumping 
 over urban trappings. And though the running part is decently executed the game also gives players 
 a healthy serving of "figure out what the designers were thinking". I personally hate figuring 
 out what designers were thinking, because it usually ends with me being scraped off the sidewalk 
 and being forced to watch the same level reload a hundred times. Mirror's Edge has a lot of "reloading", 
 mainly because pressure put on the player makes it hard to discern where you have to go and how 
 to get there. If you are expecting a fast-paced ballet of action, get ready to put in more hours 
 getting used to the levels than actually enjoying the game. A single playthrough isn't enough, 
 simply because Mirror's Edge is best played once you know what to do. 
  
  
  REFLECTIONS OF A NOT-SO-DISTANT FUTURE
  
  Electronic Arts does a great job staging a futuristic 
 world where dissident couriers called Runners are the last bastion of free speech in a perfectly 
 sterile society that controls all means of communication. The world is clean and comfortable for 
 those who abide by its Orwellian rules. Those who reject it are cast out. We never see the outcasts 
 but we know they are a happy lot. Runners are their lifeblood because unrepressed communication 
 means their freedom. Ironically, Runners live above both societies under the clean, blue sky, dashing 
 from building to building on the edge, leaving behind them but a reflection on the mirrored windows 
 of corporate sky rises. Hence the name: Mirror's Edge. 
  
  The story revolves around a nimble Runner, Faith, embroiled in a conspiracy that involves her sister, 
 a cop, who was framed for murder. As conspiracies go this one is your typical yarn with the expected 
 betrayals and twists -- in short, nothing extraordinary. But the plot is told through exquisitely 
 animated cutscenes worthy of a good anime. Electronic Arts does a wonderful job with colors like 
 few games before it, accentuating the sterile nature of the city in contrasting shades of white, 
 blue and red.
  
  Mirror's Edge offers an interesting feature called Runner Vision, which shows us the world through 
 the eyes of a Runner by painting objects of interest in red, like doors, pipes, beam and ramps 
 that can be used to parkour through. It helps. What doesn't help is constant pressure put on players 
 and tenacious first-perspective. 
  
  
  BETWEEN THE GLOSS AND THE REALITY
  
  Like its closest rival, Prince of Persia, Faith can climb, wall-run, swing on poles and bounce 
 off walls. But that's where the similarities end. Faith can also slide, zip-line, jump over objects 
 and bounce off specific items. Players can roll into a ball while landing from high up and spin 
 around 180 at a whim. Levels are cleverly designed around the game's running mechanics. You don't 
 simply jump over objects, you freestyle though them in sprint. We see Faith's arms, legs and body 
 as she flows through the levels. 
  
  All this running around in first-perspective without a HUD or life meter can be a bit dizzying 
 at times but it makes parkouring that much more fun and realistic. The game could have really benefited 
 from some third-perspective action, though, especially while wall-running and performing other 
 precise maneuvering. It almost feels like Electronic Arts refused to add a third-perspective feature 
 out of fear that Mirror's Edge would be labeled a Prince of Persia clone. Some advice: don't play 
 this game with your parents around. They'll be astonished at how many swear words you can string 
 together when you careen to your death for the X'ed time because you didn't give Faith the right 
 amount of time to properly pivot before bouncing off a wall, or because you didn't quite connect 
 with a wall before wall-running or walking a narrow ledge. 
  
  There were parts in Mirror's Edge were I stopped expecting to reach my objective and started counting 
 the new ways I would die. That's a not a good thing for a game that prides itself for being fast-paced; 
 dying sort of puts a halt on things. It's one of those games that requires you to die until you 
 figure out how to approach certain parts, or better, how not to approach them. This is clearly 
 the biggest flaw. Pressing the "Alt" button focuses Faith's vision at an objective, but that feature 
 still needs work. Your Runner will often aim at the final goal, ignoring the ones in between, giving 
 players the wrong idea how to tackle a level. 
  
  The environment is killer. One false step and the white settings below get a new shade of red. 
 But if falling to your death because of awkward controls wasn't enough, EA added rabid cops trying 
 to mow you down with everything but heavy artillery (actually they have that too in the form of 
 military choppers) . The result is Faith running for her life like a gazelle just about anywhere 
 she goes, crashing through doors to always escape in the nick of time. Again, it's exciting when 
 you don't die. And die you will. 
  
  
  "RUN FAITH RUN" 
  
  Electronic Arts has a good concept on their hands. The ultimate effect resembles the cult movie 
 "Run Lola Run", where a slim female character always manages to hit the elevator button before 
 the bad guys get to her. At times your heart will pump as fast as Faith's. Things unfortunately 
 often go wrong when you have bullets whistling past your ear. Jumping over structures like fences 
 and pipes is a pleasure in itself. Had the game omitted much the bullet action in favor of more 
 parkouring, things would have felt less tedious. Players will often find themselves looking for 
 a vent shaft or the next plank to jump on while gunners are practicing their aim on you. 
  
  Combat is designed around Faith's physical ability, not her skill with firearms. The latter 
 doesn't even let her reload. When a gun is empty she has to drop it and find another. Theoretically 
 Faith has all the skills needed to take on any adversary in hand-to-hand combat. In practice, though, 
 players will prefer blasting someone away -- much easier. In theory, our Runner can grab and disarm 
 an opponent at an opportune moment (when the weapon turns red) . In practice, your opponent always 
 has three or four mates watching his back. In theory Faith can wall-run and kick her opponents 
 into the ground. In practice, your opponents rarely stand next to a wall long enough for you to 
 perform any acrobatics. A time slow-down feature helps players perform the aforementioned moves, 
 though results may vary depending on the surroundings and opponents -- some enemies are harder 
 to time your grabs against. 
  
  EA should have changed the premise of most scenes. Most of the time odds are stacked a bit too 
 high against us. Having played through the entire single player mode I never had a chance to unexpectedly 
 disarm an opponent, even though according to the tutorial it is possible. 
  
  Ultimately, Mirror's Edge starts too quickly, especially with so much potential. How do Runners 
 perform jobs? How do regular citizens react to them? How do their employers live? How do cops behave 
 under "normal" circumstances? What does Faith do in her spare time? We don't know because the game 
 begins in "fugitive" mode. A few normal Runner missions and street-level stages would have set 
 the tone and deepened the world our heroine lives in. Not always having a target on her back would 
 have also allowed Faith to fully use her skills. 
  
  But despite the shortcomings, Electronic Arts still does a great job conveying this new playground. 
 Complimenting the clean graphics is an amazing futuristic ambient score. Voice acting is also superb, 
 though your guide, Merc, could have been more helpful and cops have a stupid habit of shooting 
 first then yelling "stop or we'll shoot!" Sound effects are detailed and plentiful. Faith sometimes 
 groans a bit too much, even while doing the smallest of things, but her presence is well established, 
 both visually and audibly. 
  
  The game is rather short, clocking in between 5 and 10 hours, however a second playthrough is recommended 
 to fully enjoy the experience. Speed Run mode is nothing more than rehashed solo missions with 
 a timer. Time Trial is where the fun is at. It allows players to run through checkmarks without 
 the cop presence. Too bad EA didn't expand on it, like adding NPC Runners to square off against 
 and creating open-ended "freestlye" races. One has to wonder if the game would have been better 
 off focusing more on Time Trial missions similar to Need for Speed or Midnight Club rather than 
 plain old Story mode. The latter almost seems inadequate. Multiplayer is reserved for the most 
 fanatic of fans. I wouldn't attempt any of the multiplayer modes before having mastered all the 
 levels; it's required to even have the slightest chance against all the young Runners out there. 
 
  
  
  SUMMARY
  
  Mirror's Edge delivers a solid performance for its first attempt but it wobbles in some parts. 
 The game can be infuriating at times due to trial and error. Too much is asked of Faith. She's 
 a Runner but the game treats her like an 80's action hero. Levels are well designed, unfortunately 
 there is always someone trying to kill you, and they usually have friends, which limits the player's 
 choices and reaction time. The concept would have been more interesting had it shown us more of 
 this futuristic world and less of the whole "conspiracy". It's recommended to hardcore gamers. 
 
  
  
  GRAPHICS 85
  Excellent levels with beautiful colors. The future never looked cleaner. Lack of HUD and seeing 
 parts of Faith's body adds to realism. Not enough street missions.
  
  GAMEPLAY 70
  1st-perspective can be frustrating. Cop pressure limits player choices resulting in needless trial 
 and error. Good controls and speed mechanics.
  
  PRODUCTION 72
  Great animated scenes. Future conveyed well but more could have been done. Missed chances to elaborate 
 the Runner lifestyle. Extra modes lack creativity.
  
  SOUND 80
  Nice ambient music and plenty of cool sound effects, especially when running. A few miscued voice 
 effects and missed chances to improve gameplay with Merc.
  
  LASTING APPEAL 75
  Solo lasts 5-10 hours but replaying the game can be fun, especially in Time Trial. Lackluster extras. 
 Online modes reserved for the best players.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Absinthe-abuser
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 22, 2009 6:41 am PT
Review:  I usually give a sh*t about Stories, if the Gameplay, Graphics and Sounds are great... But this 
 Game got a really exciting one and i had to play through it in one rush, just to see where it is 
 going to.
  
  The Gameplay itself is something different: Plays almost like Tomb-Raider in 1st Person-View and 
 Time-Pressure that is simulated by Cops, which shoot at you and if you dont act fast, youre dead. 
 
  
  Something that Gamespot mentioned was: "weak Gunplay" I definitely cant agree with that, the Weapons 
 Sound is good and they are fun to shoot, also with PhysX there are some nice Particle-Effects at 
 the Debris and Foliage around the Levels. And the Gun-Less combat was fun too. I rember a part 
 when you had to catch a "evil" Runner and you had to fight her with bare Hands. I hoped there where 
 more Parts like this in the Game, but there wherent.
  
                                    
  Some weak Aspects are the 
 Object-Physics this Game looks like the PhysX Support is only limited to Foliage, Particles and 
 Ragdolls. Beside these there are no physical Objects to move around.
  
  The Graphics are good, but could have been better. Levels are low on Objects and the Polycount 
 seems to be optimized for Consoles... 
  Also, the only available Aspect-Ratio is 16:9 (and i love my good old 100Hz 19" CRT ^^)
  
  
 The Major-Issue why i not rated this Game higher is the short playing Time. I completed it in 5 
 1/2 hours and i didnt run too fast through the levels and the Ending-Cutscene was short and pointless...
 
  So 7.0 is a little underrated, i think. I hope to see a Mirrors Edge 2 with longer playing time 
 and nice Ending! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheProdigy333
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 21, 2009 2:39 am PT
Review:  Mirror's Edge is a breath of fresh air compared to some games nowadays that only bring disappointment 
 and frustration. Actually, EA created a whole new genre with this title so the innovativeness is 
 huge. You don't see every day a First-Person Action, do you? The idea of running across rooftops 
 and impossible terrain might not be appealing at first but when you start playing you will surely 
 love it. The reason I am writing this review is because of the unfair rating GS gave. I mean, come 
 on, what so bad about this game? Trial and error? Well that's a huge disadvantage. Let's make games 
 easier so Gamespot can rate them higher. They should think of how much time and resources the company 
 spent for creating this game and not how hard it is to play it. EA and Dice created a truly epic 
 game and we should pay some respect.
  
  Gameplay: First-Person perspective is widely used in shooters. Well not this time. Even though 
 there are shooting sequences in this title, they are not necessary and thus the game cannot be 
 called a shooter, because it is not. More likely "First-Person Parkour". The gameplay mechanics 
 are great, and they make you feel like you are in the game world running across buildings and performing 
 insane stunts in order to escape you pursuers. At first it may seem uncomfortable but after a while 
 you will get used to this perspective. Trust me. You may recognize some of the moves from other 
 titles like Assassin's Creed or Prince of Persia only this time you get to see them in a different 
 way. And this is the innovativeness that Mirror's Edge delivers. In short, I've never played a 
 game like this one before. Now, about the difficulty. If you set it on easy then you will see everywhere 
 red objects. They represent the path you must follow, thus making the game much easier and less 
 time consuming. If you set it on hard though then NO red objects will be shown and you will have 
 to search on your own to find your way around. See? Everybody is satisfied... 
  
  Graphics: Top notch. Absolutely stunning. They may be too shiny and colorful for some but that's 
 another story. The cutscenes in between each chapter are cartoon-like and don't have much to offer 
 compared to the game's look. The good thing here is that you don't need a Super Mega Ultra Crysis-like 
 Rig to play this game on high and with AA. This means that if a game company takes the time to 
 optimize their title much more people will be able to play them and so everybody would be happy.
 
  
  Story: Very interesting, though I must say that it wasn't anything special. The idea of "future 
 messengers" I liked. But everything else waspredictable. Of course you may have a different opinion 
 so don't judge harshly. In short, Mirror's Edge story is nothing special but it does its job. 
 
  
  Sound: The best part of this title in my opinion, the musical score of Mirror' Edge is awesome 
 and it perfectly fits the game. This guys (EA) even hired a singer for their soundtrack and that 
 is admirable. I usually never pay much attention to the sound of a game but sometimes you just 
 can't ignore it (Half-Life) . And let me tell you. If it wasn't for the music I wouldn't feel the 
 same about this game and its atmosphere.
  
  Gameplay: 10
  Graphics: 9
  Story: 8
  Sound: 10
  Overall: 9,25
  
  Bottom Line: BUY THIS GAME. NOW!!! You won't regret it!!!
  
 
  PS: I'm sorry for any grammar errors and/or wrong usage of words but my English is not the best 
 there is so be forgiving :) 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pjrod7
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 17, 2009 7:51 am PT
Review:  What a lame review, i cant believe this score with a game that actually show something new (or 
 old but with a whole different feeling) . I feel like its being bashed for the wrong reasons, hes 
 even critizicing for having a 1 minute long puzzle!! how can That "eschews the sense of speed entirely" 
 ??? I really dont understand it, For me it was fast-paced all the time, or at least 95% the time. 
 Of course i died sometimes, but so what?? the game is FULL of checkpoints to make u just repeat 
 a very small part, and if u get stuck too much like the reviewer u are not very good at this, i 
 mean, common, its not a difficult game at all.
  I tried to play this game with a gamepad and it was really frustrating, but after reading some 
 comments i tried the old keyboard and mouse and it was a completely different, pure joy! the history 
 is not all that good, but who cares?, its just an excuse to run. And of couse the combat is awkward, 
 but its because u are not playing rambo here, u are suppossed to run and avoid combat, whats the 
 point of running away if u can just kick everybodys ass? Thats a factor that just adds fun to 
 the game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MajinBuXL
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 16, 2009 3:55 pm PT
Review:  Once again gamespot dissed a completely respectable game. Why are we even surprised anymore?
  This one is utterly amazing. The soundtrack, level design, story, everything down right to the 
 basic concept score high in my book. 
  
  But first of all, lets look at the basics. 
  
  Its a first person platformer like we haven't seen in a long time. The running, jumping and sliding 
 along rooftops feel incredibly realistic and intense. The sound and graphics really help achieve 
 that without being too overbearing. Textures are polished and crisp. It's a pleasure to just sit 
 and watch.
  
  The level design is right on. It's at times complex and at times simple, without ever jumping to 
 either extreme. Sometimes you'll have to stop and think about what to do next, while other times 
 you'll run through multiple paths without even realizing you haven't stopped.
  
  The sound editing shows extensive work. The city feels incredibly alive even if you don't see anyone. 
 Everything, from the cars honking to the airliners flighing above you, from Faith's breathing to 
 the air blowing by you, everything has its own place and fits perfectly within the scheme of things.
 
  
  The story is fairly unique. Finally a realistic plot that doesn't involve aliens, monsters and 
 mad scientists, rather a girl trying to get back at what happened to her and her family. I'll let 
 you uncover the rest.
  
  Overall its an amazing game, I recommend it to anyone who thinks they can handle the heights and 
 the motion sickness.
  
  Enjoy!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: onlyforthetrnty
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 13, 2009 11:17 pm PT
Review:  If you read Gamespot's review, completely forget about it. Seriously. I read gamespot's review, 
 and sadly decided not to buy it. Now however, time has passed and i wanted to see if the commercials 
 lived up to its playability, and my expectations have been blown away! 
  
  As the main character, Faith, you run as a messenger. Ironically though, throughout the whole game 
 you don't deliver a single message. (As a side note, this game isn't heavy on plot) . You run from 
 building to building, solving small fast-paced puzzles (Puzzles means figuring out ways to get 
 from Point A to Point B) and EA does a terrific job to make this task enjoyable and exciting. Only 
 about twice out of fifty times have i really been stuck on a puzzle, and death is barely an issue 
 in this game. I have no idea why gamespot complains about the difficulty, because EA really makes 
 the runs flow seamlessly. 
  
  Graphics are amazing.... When i first played the games, i was awed by the vivid usage of just three 
 basic colors, red being the most used. The whole city is white, making a beautiful contrast with 
 red, green, and orange. I do have a somewhat decent graphic card though, so make sure that your 
 graphic card is up to date.
  
  The game is moderately sized, but i do wish that it was longer. Overall, though this might sound 
 cheesy, Mirror's Edge really allows you to feel as though your swiftly jumping from building to 
 building and defying gravity. Overall, Awesome Game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bugsy007
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 13, 2009 9:48 am PT
Review:  Never have I been captured by a game so vibrant like this one. 
  
  I'm pretty much an action & adventure type but this game surprisingly fell off my radar. It was 
 not until about 2 days ago when I first found out about it that I knew I had to get it.
  
  At first I was amazed by the environments, seeing the trailers and vids I saw on youtube. Then 
 came the "Crane Jump" which was unthinkable. The Makers are really creative. So much so that they 
 even included a music CD in the packages. The song "Still Alive" was a match made in heaven for 
 this game.
  
  But what got me out of my home to go and get was because of this...
  
  Apart from what the eye can see, be it the "Colours of the Rainbow" or the well planned and constructed, 
 jaw dropping environments or jumps, I could feel a sense of "Beliefflowing through my mind and 
 body (and what better way to connect with the game when the protagonist is a Lady called "Faith") .
 
  
  Based on the dangerous but up and coming sport of "Free Running", in which confidence and believe 
 (Faith) fuel the very intentions of the runner's actions. I gotta admit, this game is too over 
 the top in that sense.
  
  However, it never failed to mesmerize. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingssorrel
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 12, 2009 2:52 pm PT
Review:  Amazing game. you gonna love it!!! but you gonna need fellas a very good graphic card to play it! one 
 of the best games of the year!
  amazing!!! so great!!! one of the best games of the year! but you gonna need fellas a very good graphic 
 card to play it!
  amazing!!! so great!!! one of the best games of the year! but you gonna need fellas a very good graphic 
 card to play it!
  amazing!!! so great!!! one of the best games of the year! but you gonna need fellas a very good graphic 
 card to play it!
  amazing!!! so great!!! one of the best games of the year! but you gonna need fellas a very good graphic 
 card to play it!
  amazing!!! so great!!! one of the best games of the year! but you gonna need fellas a very good graphic 
 card to play it!
  amazing!!! so great!!! one of the best games of the year! but you gonna need fellas a very good graphic 
 card to play it!
  amazing!!! so great!!! one of the best games of the year! but you gonna need fellas a very good graphic 
 card to play it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skillroy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 10, 2009 2:05 pm PT
Review:  describe mirrors edge in 1 word: "fantastic"
  
  This game is just super fun, beautiful, innovative and cool.
  
  graphics: This game looks so 
 cool, with just so many totally white buildings, and everything else is very strong colors, and 
 it does really feel cold, with cameras everywhere, and keypad's locks on the doors. 
  
  you will be thrown into many varied environments, like malls, factory's even a ship!
  
  gameplay: 
 also great fun, you feel satisfied when running trough a level full speed, without falling off 
 and edge or something.
  combat looks awesome, and will feel fantastic after a little training
  gunplay is weak, but on 
 the positive side, that will make you drop your gun more, which is what ME is all about!
  
  the story is okay, but you can kind a figure out what happens, the sound is super cool, you will 
 hear faith breathe, and run, and her clothes moving, and just everything. just the first person 
 part, fits it perfect.
  
  i disagree with gamespots review. i think the amount of deaths or failures is not annoying, and 
 there are checkpoints everywhere so its no problem.
  
  if you got the money, you should really go buy this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Knoflook
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 10, 2009 6:52 am PT
Review:  I have been playing mirror's edge for about 20 hours. I don't want to be a Mirror's Edge fanboy, 
 but the game was good. Actually great. It was a totally new experience. The graphics were beautiful. 
 Everything was bright and it looked slick. 
  
  The gameplay was new. A first person platform game. It was a bit strange when i first played it, 
 but when i got used to it, it felt good. It gave you good realism. 
  
  So where does gamespot go wrong? 
  
  First of all, Trail and Error? Gamespot must have sucked 
 at playing this game. Cause people that are complaining they fall every time from the skyscrapers 
 and then die, suck at the game. Or well suck at playing games. I am not a pro gamer or anything, 
 but i didn't fall of buildings every 10 seconds. If you just sometimes take your time, instead 
 of rushing through the game, you wouldn't fall every time. And i know there are blue's everywhere, 
 chasing you. Still, don't go jumping of buildings.
  
  Second, this game tries something new. Not like GTA 4, which was a good game. But giving it a 10 
 out of 10, come on! It's just the same as GTA San Andreas, only it looks better. Some controls 
 have been changed. Back to the fact that Mirror's Edge tries something new. They tried it, and 
 the got a good game out of it. The story mode is maybe a bit short, but it feels fresh. When you 
 play the game, you get moments thinking of, hey this is new, i have never done this before. Because 
 of that, it kept me playing the game.
  
  The game has it weaknesses, i know. Short story, minor bugs and control issues. But these weaknesses 
 are overruled by solid new gameplay, flashy graphics and nice action.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: crimson_axe
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 7, 2009 7:35 pm PT
Review:  Alright, so I'll try to make this brief, but it's hard to do because every aspect of the game has 
 a serious love/hate relationship going on with the player.
  
  
  
  Graphics - 8
  
  So, the game looks nice. I mean, the whole design is pretty cool, and the way they use color (or 
 the lack thereof) is incpiring. The problem comes in when you look at the game world as a whole. 
 There is absolutely no life to the game other than Faith (the protagonist) and the two or three 
 people she runs into. Outside of these characters, there is no one... nothing... nada... zilch. 
 Technically, this wouldn't be categorized as "Graphics", but it belongs in the sense that there 
 is simply no life in the game.
  
  Don't get me wrong, the building tops and the overall architecture of the game is pretty good. 
 But you really start to feel that you've seen everything there is to see in the game by the second 
 or third level. The world is static, and with zero dynamic - thus, it would look good.
  
  Animation is... well... there isn't a whole lot going on here either. I mean, there is animation, 
 and it is solid.. but there is no variety. Pretty much, what you see in the first level (the tutorial) 
 is what the game is like the whole way through.
  
  Sound - 8
  
  So, again, the music is alright - if you notice it. The problem is, you hardly ever notice it. 
 Maybe that's not such a bad thing - I don't know. It doesn't get int he way, but it doesn't even 
 try to inspire you, either.
  
  Voice Acting is nice I guess, but this realy sort of loses it's luster because the story is so 
 weak (I still don't know what the hell is going on in the game other than some standard plot devices.) 
 On top of that, because so much of th erest of the game is so bland, the VA is sort of funneled 
 into a game deivce that is in the game because modern games have to have it.
  
  Gameplay - 7
  
  So, again as with graphics. Everything Faith can do is put right into the tutorial 
 - as well it should be. Still, everything she does (again) feels uninspired.
  
  On top of this, you'll immediately wish Faith could do some stuff she can't do at all. For instance, 
 the gun-play is EXTREMELY lacking. I realise that she isn't a trained soldier (like in so many 
 other games) , but it seems to me that she would encounter the need for a weapon often enough to 
 justify that she would know how to use one properly - thus justifying a deeper gun-combat system.
 
  
  Not only this, but her overall melee attacks are somewhat limiting as well. The whole way through 
 the game, I had the itching frustration that what I was doing, was good... but you do the same 
 stuff throughout the whole game. Because of this, you really notice how much better the game could 
 have been for the "fun" aspect, had they just went a little deeper.
  
  The parts of the game that really shine, however, are the segments where oyu are being chased by 
 the Ninja Police (special officers trained in Runner acrobatics - I call them Ninja Police) . They 
 group up, they are hard to kill in melee, and the level design usually gives you enough freedom 
 to run and jump about to your heart's desire. Really and truely, this isn't just the best part 
 of the game. It's really what makes the game standout. These segments don't really occur until 
 later in the game, and don't happen often enough or last long enough to really appreciate them. 
 DICE should have put more emphasis on this in my opinion.
  
  An interesting note, the gameplay is somewhat frustrating, but during these segments, I find that 
 I actually play better and much smoother. It's a total rush.
  
  Value - 5
  
  My beef with this is the game is so content-lite, and was more or less a montage of "Things that 
 are possible by modern game standards..." that I felt like I was playing one huge advertisement 
 for video-games. I mean, seriously. I didn't feel like I was playing a real fully produced AAA 
 game at all. I felt like I was playing one of those cheesey Flash-Media games that make up for 
 their lack of interesting and deep gameplay by using highly stylized art (that looks good.)
  
  Tilt - 7
  
  So, I guess this is the part that demonstrates my overall feeling of the game, 
 where I have a chance to grade the game as a whole. I didn't love this game. I didn't hate it. 
 I liked some parts because of how fluid and well it played. I disliked it because it was the same 
 thing over and over again, and was neither involving or attention grabbing.
  
  Overall - 7 (Average) For once, I agree with Gamespot.
  
  So, really, the game wasn't worth 
 $50. I would have paid for it, for sure, but there is jst nothing here. I beat the game in a solid 
 5 hours of play. I have no desire to play it again. And really, while it was crisp and clean... 
 I presume it was, because there was just nothing there. Basically, you could do a lot worse with 
 this game, but you could do a lot better too.
  
  By the way, this game isn't very inspirational and/or innovative. It's basically a modern day Assassin's 
 Creed, put it in a First Person Perspective, and then took away the combat. I don't understand 
 why people are saying it's "New and refreshing..." All this game did was make me wish I was playing 
 something else that had a better story and deeper gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mordaren60
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 7, 2009 3:35 am PT
Review:  As I said I enjoyed Mirror's Edge to the fullest. The story, the feel of everything and the cool 
 cityscape design and the wonderful music just makes this a masterpiece. The only thing I can complain 
 on is that it was to short, and without any good multi-player it might be alot of money for some 
 people. But if you are like me and can play good single-player games over and over you will not 
 be dissapointed. And you do have the time-trial stuff to try and beat the best.
  
  And what the reviewer here at Gamespot said that it was a lot of trial and error I just don't agree. 
 Yeah sure if you aren't used to these kind of games and you don't keep your eyes out for possible 
 routes well yeah then it might be some trial and error. But not that much that it gets frustrating.
 
  
  I just hope that all of you who buy this wonderful game will enjoy it as much as myself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: omega11
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 6, 2009 11:28 am PT
Review:  They should have called this the "Jumper" demo. This game could have been much better with a stronger 
 story and plot. It reminds me of a first person version of Tomb Raider. Jumps. Lots of jumping. 
 Of course, you also have to deal with the annoying trial and error associated with a game that 
 requires perfect timing of jumps. So, those who venture to play this game should be prepared to 
 restart certain levels over and over again until you get each jump perfect. Luckily, most of the 
 levels have various automatic save points that allow you to retry certain points after you die. 
 It would have been better to just add a save game aspect, but what do you expect from a console 
 port....
  
  The graphics are great and worth the price of admission. However, don't try to run the Physx component 
 unless you have a hell of a rig. It slowed the crap out of my box and I have a GTX 260 with Core 
 2 Quad running at 1600x1200. Other than that, the game ran fine, looked awesome, and I didn't experience 
 any major crashes. 
  
  It's a short game and definitely worth playing, but it could have been much better.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lobotomist
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 2, 2009 11:21 pm PT
Review:  It often happens that reviewers play first two levels (one of them is tutorial) , they dont even 
 bother to play the whole game.
  
  It also happens that if the game is something new , and in anyway different than the rest , its 
 automatically "to weird" for them.
  
  It also happens that if the game does not have EEZY mode and they god forbid die more than 2 times 
 - the game is to hard for them.
  
  All of these three things happened to reviewer of Mirrors Edge.
  
  
  Let me give it to you 
 shortly.
  
  If you seen the videos and stared at them with your mouth gaping.
  
  The game is exactly that. Its exactly what was promised. 
  It plays great , its revolutionary, 
 its not to hard or to easy. Checkpoints are set every 1 minute (god forbid you are set back 1 minute.. oh 
 oh)
  
  Did I say that the game looks stunningly beautiful ? 
  
  
  All in all - disregard the gamespot review 
  
  If you planned to get the game based on preview's 
 and videos.
  
  Get it because its all that good !
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dgsag
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 1, 2009 5:56 pm PT
Review:  For full review and score breakdown:
  http://www. poland. us/strona,33,3569,0. html
  
  DICE is known for its insanely popular multiplayer shooter series, Battlefield. Battlefield is 
 known for its wide open environments and high player counts, an experience that other shooters 
 often find hard to replicate successfully. Although DICE has continued to make new forays in the 
 Battlefield franchise through Bad Company and Heroes, many were surprised when they announced that 
 they were working on a completely new IP that attempted the idea of first person platforming. Many 
 doubted DICE could pull off what nobody else has managed to do before, but the game ended up being 
 released anyway. So, does DICE's experimental foray succeed in doing what many thought impossible?
 
  
  From the start, Mirror's Edge (ME) leaves quite an impression of uniqueness. Set in a pristine, 
 near-future metropolis, ME presents a world that stands in sharp contrast the dull, dark and brown 
 settings that developers seem addicted to. It's a breath of fresh air, and it helps sustain an 
 experience that some might have found to be not worth their time. You play as Faith, a messenger 
 of sorts, whose daily hijinks consist of carrying messages between rebelling elements in what seems 
 to be an area under oppressive rule. Your daily adventures are interrupted by the assassination 
 of a sympathetic candidate for mayor. It just so happens that your sister (who works for the same 
 security forces that chase you) was framed in the assassination. The plot builds from there. Unfortunately, 
 the narrative is not one of Mirror Edge's strengths. Characters have little to no personality, 
 important plot points are communicated through mediocre animated cutscenes (looking like low-budget 
 E-surance commercials) , and the campaign has no solid, satisfying ending.
  
  It's a shame, because the actual gameplay that this below-average plot surrounds is usually quite 
 good. Each level throws you into varying environments within the city that have Faith using some 
 serious acrobatic skills. As you run, you pick up speed and become able to string moves together. 
 Everything from wallruns to pipeclimbing is used by Faith to zip across levels. All of these moves 
 are quite easy to pull off no matter what control scheme you're using, although the mouse and keyboard 
 combo does make it slightly easier to aim Faith in the right direction.
  
  At its peak, Mirror's Edge is a pure joy to play. Running, jumping, and sliding over environments 
 without pause is truly exhilirating as DICE has captured the sense of movement quite effectively, 
 with Faith's hands swinging appropriately and the camera bobbing as if it was attached to an actual 
 head. To help players, DICE gave Faith "runner vision" (disabled on higher difficulties) which 
 highlights interactive objects with a bright shade of red. While it seems like a feature that hardcore 
 gamers would regard with disdain, it is not obnoxious enough to make the game feel like its holding 
 your hand. It's only helpful enough to ensure that you won't make frequent pauses that break your 
 momentum. Unfortunately, things do get bogged down a bit too often by a variety of other factors.
 
  
  The chief of these is the game's liberal use of armed enemies, that take potshots at you as you 
 try to navigate the environment. Usually, you can try to avoid and go around them, which further 
 boosts your adrenaline, but you'll often find yourself running into them. The combat mechanics 
 should be as smooth as the actual movement, but they're not. Stopping an enemy involves either 
 pounding him dead with your fists (by which time you'll be dead yourself) or disarming them during 
 the split second their gun is highlighted red. This is often difficult to pull of and will leave 
 you with the gun in your hand. While players might be encouraged to empty it into the enemy's friends, 
 they're going to run into Mirror Edge's questionable gunplay. DICE are one of the masters of multiplayer 
 combat, so why weren't they able to preserve the solid gunplay from the last few Battlefield games 
 is beyond us. Guns are inaccurate, floaty, and just don't feel satisfying to use. You can throw 
 one away, but as said before, this ruins the flow of the gameplay.
  
  Mirror's Edge is also quite unforgiving when compared to other recent platformers, most notably 
 ones like Prince of Persia. Whereas you pretty much didn't have to watch where you were jumping 
 in POP, be prepared to die and restart sections A LOT in ME. The game awards those who make precise 
 movements but punishes those who are even a degree off from grabbing a ledge. It can become very 
 frustrating for impatient players. If you want to play Mirror's Edge, then prepare to have your 
 ego hurt a bit.
  
  Beyond the story mode, there are several modes to play around with: record-beating races and speed 
 runs. There are leaderboards for those interested, so the game may or may not be worth the price 
 depending on your interests in such features.
  
  Mirror's Edge is simply a beautiful game. Its world is one of sharp contrasts, containing stunningly 
 clean white environments sporadically highlighted by bright colors. While it may not break any 
 technical ground, it contains an ambitiously unique design that's a breath of fresh air after coming 
 from this generation's bevy of dark and slimy corridors. It looks great on PS3 and 360, but be 
 sure to play it on a PC if you're looking for some serious eye candy. For the PC version, DICE 
 added Physx support, which helps liven up the environment with things and materials like plastics 
 and ripping cloth. It's not a huge difference, but when added with higher resolution and AA support, 
 it gives the PC version a real edge.
  
  Sound design is great, with ambient effects like Faith's breathing and footsteps further immersing 
 you in her adventures. Voice acting is above the bar most games set, and the soundtrack is hypnotically 
 rhythmic at the right times.
  
  While not for everybody, Mirror's Edge is a breath of fresh air for the first person genre. Unforgiving 
 and badly written, it will turn off a lot of players. But it is bold, beautiful, and ambitious 
 enough to be considered, especially if you're a fan of the whole free-running thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: heatcliff20
Rating: 2.5
Date: Feb 1, 2009 5:18 pm PT
Review:  This game is really really boring and easy, the ambiance its really cold, its more like a simulator 
 of parkour than a game with real sustance, the simple and awful plot its just to justify the nice 
 gameplay, thats all. 
  
  -The music in mirrors edge its by far one of the worst OST ive ever heard before in a videogame, 
 its really amateur, i was expecting something like the "Run Lola Run" (movie) soundtrack, but no, 
 its sounds like a home made low budget stuff. 
  
  -The graphics are Ok, but this great feature doesnt works when a game becomes extremely linear 
 and monotonous.
  
  -The pc versions is full of Bugs.
  
  I was expecting something fresh and revolutionary, but no , its just a fraud, the good publicity 
 about this "new and innovative" engine, mades me biting the hook like some other people, If this 
 had been calledParkour Runner Simulator 2009" perhaps the decepcion had not been so much
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Onsfan
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 1, 2009 11:15 am PT
Review:  First and formost, 7.0 is grossly under-rated. 
  That being said, this is nowhere near a classis either.
  
  The good: quite asonishing production 
 value; good overall mechanic design, at least theoretically; amazing video/audio presentation; 
 unique.
  
  The bad: quite short in length; numerous stage design flaws; frustrating combat; pretty poor pacing.
 
  
  Ok, now here's what I think: 
  Watching (well, playing, really) this game makes me feel pretty sad. With an amazing style and 
 visual design, adding up with a more than solid production value, this game has an amazing potential 
 to be great. The main flaw here lies on the game's machenic. 
  
  The game incorporates three elements: running, puzzles, and combats. 
  Running is a blast, but 
 you are often left wondering where exactly to go, even with the "red-hint" system. 
  Puzzles are paces too slow, and there are some minor design flaws with the interior climbing sequence, 
 especially since this is a first-person game. 
  Combat, on the other hand, is great in theory, but really not satisfying. The enemies are placed 
 so that it is impossible to fight them without stopping and taking cover. They gun you down quickly, 
 and at the last few stages you will be coursing when you see the must-fight red enemies. 
  
  Overall, I consider this game an opportunity missed for making a classic. That being said, 
 it is definately a game worth checking out. Since it's short, rent the game would satisfy most 
 people. Honestly, tho, when I see this game, I see a wasted porduction value being tripped up by 
 minor flaws. It's sad, really 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rishi_storm
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 1, 2009 2:56 am PT
Review:  Well, frankly i don't know where to start. i don't want this to be draggy so all i will say is 
 this has been an amazing experience. 
  
  From the beginning Mirror's Edge has amazed me with its graphics, sound, and the best of all the 
 gameplay. Absolutely revolutionary game which everyone should play.
  
  I guess many readers would have already played the game so i'll keep it short.
  
  The plus 
 Points:
  Amazing Graphics.
  Great Sound.
  Superb sense of realism.
  Outstanding gameplay.
  
  The negatives:
  Not a good job in the 2-d animations department 
 by 'Chase Animations'.
  Gun-fight could have been made more realistic (at least the large ones took me some time) .
  Story 
 is not bad but many loose ends (hopefully disclosed in Mirrors edge 2! :D) .
  
  
  Even after finishing the game i can still hear the music in my head. I'm off to complete the remaining 
 races. Maybe even give some competition online. 
  
  Cheers!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arauder
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 30, 2009 10:55 pm PT
Review:  When I first took notice of Mirror's Edge before it released, I honestly thought that there was 
 not much it can offer besides the parkour and first-person fusion action. However, when I finally 
 decided to purchase a copy and gave it a whirl, I couldn't have been more surprised (in a good 
 way) .
  
  The game is of course, a first-person action/adventure game that integrates the very realism of 
 body-movement and sense of danger. You can grasp ledges, sprint to your destination at high-speeds, 
 vault over obstacles, slide under obstruction, and many other stunts that just feels fulfilling 
 as you seamlessly link all of these factors into a fast-paced roof-jumping adrenaline ride. 
  
  After I read the Gamespot review of this game, I realized that maybe the "frustrating amount 
 of trial a error" would cause me to well get frustrated. But honestly, unless you just fail as 
 an adept gamer (which is the demographic this game is most likely aiming toward) , this game is 
 easy to navigate through, and you need not to worry at all about being stuck for a whole hour just 
 because you can't find the next red-highlighted object in your environment. I admit, you might 
 eventually find a specific area in the game where you're stuck trying to move on to the next one, 
 you're probably trying to solve the puzzle the wrong way. When you finally find the correct way 
 to your problem, it doesn't take a frustrating amount of deaths to move on.
  
  But onto the actual game play
  
  This game is great. Even if you don't appreciate this innovative 
 style of game play, the whole city, inside and out, is a canvas full of pleasant color-schemes 
 and provides a sterile-like environment (which the plot itself supports) . 
  
  Faith, the main protagonist and runner you control, is given a lot of thought to. You'll hear her 
 foot-steps, her hands grasping onto whatever solid ground she can get to, her gasps of air, and 
 struggling grunts as you engage in close-quarters combat with the enemy.
  
  At some points in the game, when there isn't any bullets zipping and contacting and all that good 
 stuff, there's ENEMY NINJAS. 
  
  Eventually, you'll get to the point in the game where the feds begin to take notice of your feats 
 and send parkour-trained officers who have the same speed and agility as you do. Where you can 
 go, they can go, meaning that escape is no longer an option, but fear, terror, and sense of danger 
 certainly is. And while running away from them is scary in itself, its not even close to the terrifying 
 (but amusing) moment where they catch you and karate-chop you to death .
  
  Ahh~ memories. Anyway, this here's a very great game that will draw you into the many pros it contains, 
 which can certainly trump the cons (short, weak combat, weird non-conclusive ending) by ten-fold. 
 There are no glitches (through my first play-through) and I have the 1.00.0.0.0.00.0.0.000.0.0.0.00 
 version, not patched. The music matches perfectly with the story and action it presents, and should 
 not be overlooked. Buy this game.
  
  
  GAME PLAY: 9/10
  
  SOUND: 9/10
  
  VISUALS: 9/10
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mizo_online
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 28, 2009 12:19 pm PT
Review:  when i saw the 1st trailer it was like HUH?!! is this really a game?
  can't wait for it am gonna get it & play it and feel this extreme rush!
  i completed all the 
 story mode and all i can say the game is simply perfect, i think it's gonna be one of the best games 
 in history
  never seen such game experience like this one.
  mirror's edge can't be compared to any game that's because this is the first game of it's kind 
 ,so don't try to compare it to any game!
  the first thing that you will notice while playing is the sound effects and music, actually the 
 first day i played mirror's edge i downloaded the soundtrack too, the music is really into the game 
 and you would feel the music while you are playing like a thing that tells you keep running, running 
 and running!
  Also the graphics is very good and the city from above is really amazing and makes you wanna jump 
 to every building you see!
  Mirror's edge makes you think in a different way ... see things in different directions.. the world 
 for you is like a big maze to explore by running and the art of evading the obstacles you may face 
 is the your gift that makes you special.
  finally, i hope they make a second part for mirror's edge so i guess i will be waiting for Mirror's 
 Edge 2.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: goreaffection_i
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 27, 2009 11:56 pm PT
Review:  Just when u thought that FPSs couldnot be any more innovative, incomes Mirror's Edge. I would have 
 given this game a full 10 hadnt it been for the very short single player. The game looks and plays 
 beautifully, and after you master the moves, which takes a little time, you are going to love the 
 game. Time trial is excellent fun, which makes the game almost like a 2 in 1 package. You can always 
 try to beat ur own personal best by discovering shorter routes. Weapons are not exactly the games 
 plus point, so dont expect a Call of Duty 4 in this game. Nevertheless you will find disarming 
 dumb police officers and shooting their partners very enjoyable. I wish they bring out the sequel 
 as soon as possible, and as we all know, Mirror's Edge is going to be a trilogy, just cant wait. 
 So go ahead, take the leap of your lifetime. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MetalHed187
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 27, 2009 9:07 pm PT
Review:  Do not let average ratings fool you, this game is for anyone who has dreamed of how it would feel 
 to run from the cops, kick their asses, jump across skyscrapers, and basically play a game that 
 begs them to return to their console or keyboard for more. Albeit short, Mirror's edge offers plenty 
 of first-person, beautifully minimalistic, kinetic thrills to offset the campaign's semi-short 
 playtime. The downside of this game is that although the story is great, the cutscenes suck (After 
 the first I never really watched them) and the AI is lacking although this is fun at times (cops 
 shooting repeatedly at objects rather than you) which allows you to try off advanced combat moves.
 
  
  I view this game as the first of a new genre of action style gaming in which the motion of the 
 human body creates a more immersive gaming experience. I paid $50 USD for this game, got every 
 penny's worth out of it, and am so excited for the next. Just play the damn game to see what I'm 
 talking about! On my list, it's definitely up there with Half Life and Age of Empires! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Danimita
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 27, 2009 7:55 am PT
Review:  Mirror's Edge was a game I'd been waiting for ever since it was announced. It was ambitious, new, 
 it looked good, and now that I've played it, i can say it plays and feels great. I wasn't let down 
 a bit.
  
  GAMEPLAY: 
  Obviously the best part of the game is the parkour, or free-running style the game is based on. 
 Jumping, running, hanging, gliding, shooting, rolling... Faith's abilities are only limited by 
 physics. 
  The story is good enough to make you want to get to the end and, imitating many of the most recent 
 games, a cliffhanger ending ready for a sequel. This kind of makes the game seem shorter than what 
 it already is (about 5 hours of gameplay) compensated with the addictive online races, which'll 
 keep you playing for another 5 to 6 hours, or until you get bored of trying to get on the top 50. 
 The problem I've seen is that somehow somebody managed to hack the game and fly around the level, 
 cheating.
  Then there's the combat (shooting and unarming enemies) . It is pretty bad. Many times you won't 
 be able to unarm an enemy and end up dying. Which is pretty realistic, anyway, so no complaints 
 there. Still the game gives you the option to not have to fight enemies, even though you will have 
 to fight in various occasions.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  Beautiful. The sterile environment the game is really well done, although some people say the game's 
 a bit repetetive with its buildings. I didn't really notice that much, though, as I was busy running 
 around all the time.
  
  SOUND:
  "Lisa Miskovsky - Still Alive" enough said.
  The sound effects are really cool, although sometimes the ambient sound is so loud you can't hear 
 what people are telling you.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dbam987
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 26, 2009 9:14 am PT
Review:  I have to say that this game is quite interesting compared to other first person shooters. You'll 
 be running around and doing acrobatics on roof-tops, falling quite often to your doom on the streets 
 below until you master the controls and find the best routes through the levels.
  
  I find the story mode quite good. Usually I play games that have well-written story-lines, and 
 this is one of them. The acting is done quite good in the cut-scenes, which is a major plus compared 
 to other games, and they don't over-do it either.
  
  The graphics are crisp and clean, and I can run the game on reasonably high settings except with 
 the NVidia PhysX engine thing, as that tends to bring the game's frame-rate to an abysmal 5 frames 
 a second when you're in an area with breaking glass. Other than that, you'll enjoy the very bright 
 levels and smooth animations.
  
  The difficulty of the game is mastering the controls. Once you got that down, then it changes to 
 how well you can time your jumps, attacks, and finding the route to your goal. In my limited experience 
 so far with the game, it is kind of frustrating but not the kind that makes you want to quit entirely. 
 If you have an XBox controller, you'll have better success with the game over the keyboard and 
 mouse.
  
  All-in-all, it is a solid game experience in my books, one that I'll come back to play again after 
 I've beaten the story mode so I can try to beat the clock in time trials. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pecone_Penev
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 26, 2009 8:16 am PT
Review:  When I first saw the preview for Mirror's edge I was really impressed. I was-WOW finaly something 
 different, and I was right...
  The game is really first of its kind (at least first to me) and it is interesting. Everything was 
 done with nice detail and the moves and climbing, the jumping, the kicking-were amazing!!!
  I recommend the game to everyone out there, it is really fun, it is also really hard on certain areas, but 
 once you figure it out-it deffinately gives you satisfaction.
  The sound is really good-all the tracks are very well selected based on on what is hapenning in 
 the game, wich makes the experience totaly worth it.
  I am not sure though how many time I will replay the game since once you have figured out all the 
 perks it may become kind of boring.
  Either way-it is a good game, if you have the chance-PLAY IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MagicTestacle
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 25, 2009 11:29 pm PT
Review:  I never liked platform games, but this is something else. This game gives you great control over 
 that crazy little girl with a set of controls that worked exactly for me, and I'm sure others will 
 agree that this game sure is innovative, it's just exactly what it's supposed to be - A first person 
 platformer, a genre that I have never heard of before, and I'm sure that even if there were games 
 in this genre, they would never have been THAT good.
  
  You control Faith with the WASD control scheme, and on normal difficulty you can just follow the 
 red highlighted objects to move forward towards your destination in the chapter. To get to some 
 of those objects you will have to jump between roofs, run on walls, jump from walls, shimmy on 
 ledges, swing on bars and whatnot. Those tricks are extremely easy to perform smoothly and to chain 
 them is easy as well. I say that since I suck at those games and it got me exactly 10 seconds to 
 get used to flowing through the maps.
  
  As a guy who never liked platformers, when I first read the GS review and touched this game I thought 
 I was going to quit after 2 minutes, but I discovered that this game is mainly SO EASY, that it 
 makes you feel so good about your computer gaming skills. However, easy is not bad in this game, 
 as at some points of the game, when you have to deal with like 4 or 5 enemies which are pretty 
 close together or run away from enemies, this game could get frustrating for about 10 seconds since 
 combat is the hardest thing to do in this easy game. Standard cops are really easy because two 
 punches and they're on the floor, but the SWAT guys and up are pretty fast, they have good weapons 
 that kill you almost instantly on hard difficulty and they usually don't follow you to isolation. 
 When you get a gun you get pretty powerful even though you have limited ammo which is enough to 
 kill only two or three enemies with proper aiming and the right weapon, so once you get used to 
 combat and get a weapon by disarming (timing a right click when facing an enemy) quickly, you figured 
 out most of the combat in the game...
  
  Graphics are great! Even on my "outdated" 8600GTS the game flows great and looks really good, I 
 had no glitches or whatever.
  The colourful city just grows up on you and makes you feel weird in a good way. Even characters 
 look good and move like humans.
  
  Sound actually is pretty bad in my opinion, but I guess it's only my sound driver that's been acting 
 strange, since the city sounds were too strong compared to the voices, and the volume leaped when 
 I went from a cinematic (low volume) to the city's "static" sounds. I found out that on the XBox 
 it's almost the same though...
  
  Story is pretty fine, compared to other stories that show up on video games and movies lately, 
 nothing special or new, but it really didn't matter to me as I got to leap from a wall straight 
 into a kick to an enemy's face with no particular difficulty and disarm him. :P
  My only real concern was that it's god damn SHORT!!! finished the game in Normal and Hard at about 
 10 hours of play... That's pretty lame, because I know I'm not that good :)
  
  To sum up: Great game, great style, graphics, controls, flow that makes you forget the weird sounds 
 and short story.
  
  A must play in my opinion, just to realize how a game should be done. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: igna17
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 24, 2009 9:01 pm PT
Review:  Topic: unique style, has this new first-person shooting in which a weapon is what we should use 
 less, but more, you have to "fly" or running with some grace for roofs, walls, and huge jumps around 
 this as soon as possible to save your life. 
  
  Image: Amazingly new and clean graphics, pleasing to the eye, thanks to the unreal engine (Unreal 
 Tournament 3, Gears of War 2, etc.) , gives us a new rendering of the shadows and joined obviously 
 as it is known for the last DirectX9, the antialising, image distortion, and the beautiful bright 
 fresnel. strikingly simple and colorful. 
  
  The downside: its short duration, no more than 4 or 5 hours of play, so if we bring an addictive 
 (I say personally) timetrial where run and take less time from one point to another is the main 
 thing, where you should know hold and display your skills using the best Feith'techniques (main 
 character) and the best places where to run to achieve new records.
  
  Sorry my english. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halfassassin
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 24, 2009 11:28 am PT
Review:  The premise of the game is extremely original, and the storyline is awesome, but the gameplay is 
 very easy once you get used to the controls. It'd definitely NOT a real PC game, because the programmers 
 didn't take the time to change the menus from "Press A to Continue" to "Press Enter" It's completely 
 sloppy! By doing this, they assume that everyone playing this has an Xbox controller hooked up. 
 I can't decide if it's just lazy programming, or a stupid way to force people to buy controllers 
 so they can play these crappy Xbox ports without feeling like they need a translator. When you 
 turn in a report in the 4th grade and some parts of it are written in Spanish, your teacher will 
 either give it back to you and tell you to fix your mistakes, or just give you an F. I wish I could 
 send this game back to DICE for a second chance at NOT completely screwing up, but for now I'll 
 just have to settle with giving it an F. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: klanora
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 24, 2009 1:33 am PT
Review:  This game all in all is just something different. EA Dice has jumped into trying to create something 
 beyond the ordinary first person game and I must say they did a pretty. I appreciate the fact that 
 immersion in Mirrors Edge does not come from the ability to carry an unbelievable number of guns 
 you can pull out from nowhere or to be horded by soldiers or monsters or whatnot but moreover the 
 fact that the game has gives a feel to the realm of the runners. An agile race which was expressed 
 through the facets in the game. It is a down to earth game, realistic and able to make the players 
 put themselves in the shoes of the a runner, namely Faith. Sure the game is not 100% perfect but 
 plenty of games rarely are and I think that Mirror's Edge has truly achieved the objective of being 
 revolutionary both in terms of graphics and game play. Definitely this game deserves more than 
 a 7.0 as it risks diving into something new and something different and if you ask me it did so 
 with quite success. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: antipunt1
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 24, 2009 1:00 am PT
Review:  Mirror's Edge was quite a surprise; it gets extra brownie points for doing something respectable: 
 trying something completely new. Pretty soon into the game, I found MIrror's Edge on the 'edge' 
 of an instant classic.
  
  Let's shelve off the major kudos first: the porting. Oh my wow, the porting job was really fantastic. 
 Granted they did have a couple of months, but still. Instant checkpoint reload. Great graphics. 
 Intuitive controls that are debatably better than a gamepad. And just a great presentation overall. 
 Standing out amongst a midst of recent ported-games, Mirror's Edge lifts its head up high for doing 
 a great job (though I'll just throw in a little nitpick about the PhysX.... never really got that 
 working but oh well) .
  
  There's really two meaties to this game: 1) time trials and 2) story mode. The story mode, though 
 rather short, has some impressive events (ex: literal train ride, jumping from buildings, insane 
 adrenaline-pumped action sequences, and some 'oh sweet' moments) . Problems with the story include 
 the dreaded 'rejected-e-surance commercial cut scenes' and the lackluster story. I would have preferred 
 a more fleshed-out story with believable characters, though noted, 'story' isn't what ME is necessarily 
 all about.
  
  What it DOES do well is effectively create the 'first' first-person-platformer. I dare say they 
 did a fantastic job. A game style NEVER done before. Something completely new. I am, in this regard, 
 thoroughly impressed.
  
  Run, press shift to roll, hold space to wall run, q to quick turn, and space again, action continues. 
 The 'control-scheme' and setup overall is a sure winner. Granted, the combat is kind of a mess. 
 My brother and I found ways to kind of jip the combat to your advantage, but overall it wasn't 
 really that well done, and it's probably ME's biggest weakness.
  
  Speaking of weaknesses, let's mention ME's greatest strength: the time trials. Oh wow, how annoying 
 it gets to try to shave off that 1/2 second. How annoying it is that my brother is naturally gifted 
 at this game and it took me literally 5 hours to beat his score on Playground 2. Oh yea, and how 
 sweet it was WHEN I beat him. Enough said.
  
  But yes, this game is far from perfect. Despite doing so well in 'an attempt for innovation', we 
 can't really say there's a perfect game until Mirror's Edge 2. They need to fix the combat, spice 
 up the story, and streamline the 'frustratingly-slow paced' puzzles that occasionally appear in 
 the storymode. 
  
  Oh yea, and also. You die a lot. A lot a lot a lot (x100) . It's amazing, you don't think the 'rumors' 
 are true but just try the game. You will die in such 'fascinating ways'. Getting crushed by a train, 
 falling from a skyscrapper, being shot to pieces, rammed with gun-butts, did I mention falling? 
 You will die, die, and then die some more. ME could greatly benefit by reducing its frustration 
 a little bit.
  
  Long story short is this: ME is a GREAT game that takes a huge step in the right direction. I wholly 
 admire EA's attempt at something new. I am sad that their sales weren't as good as they hoped, 
 but I dunno, kudos for you? This game really pulled it off in the 'innovation' category. Almost 
 solid-platforming, great character (Faith) , great soundtrack, and beautiful environments that do 
 quite a neat job with respect to immersion (though granted the immersion is somewhat butchered 
 overall by your dying 1000x) . Still, overall, ME is a game that I grew to love. I dare say it's 
 almost a little addictive. I have no doubt in my mind that ME2 is going to be an amazing game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Avatar_RAQ
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 23, 2009 1:50 am PT
Review:  I don't know what others might say but this game is different from any other game I played in years. 
 The gameplay is fantastic, given you understand the developers' decisions. Having a choice not 
 to grab a single weapon and to complete the game in a true "runner" style is fascinating! Yet if 
 you find yourself stuck with enemies nesrby you'll have the choice of disarming one or two of them 
 and killing the others with their weapons or strategically picking one enemy at a time and killing 
 him by cool melee moves!
  Trial and error? Yes. Simply because we came to this game pre-occupied with the way other platforming 
 games (as POP amd TR) handle jumps and moves.. I tell you one thing: this game has its own way of 
 combining wallruns, jumps and other moves. It can be considered "analog" in world of "digital" 
 platformers!. Once you understrand it, the time you spend in each chapter will significantly be 
 reduced. That said, it indeed has a slow learning curve. But it wothes all your time.. Never in 
 a game before that I had this same sensation of movement.. Never I believed I AM inside the head 
 of the character I play as.
  The graphics are a wonder.. I did't believe the unreal engine can give such vivid and crisp colours. 
 Physix, on the other hand, is a downfall.. At least to my modest machine with 8800 GT.. It slows 
 down the performance especially in scenes where bullets are flying around and glass is shattered. 
 Disabling it however made the game perfectly smooth all the time with 60+ FPS @ 1280x1024, 16x 
 AA and everything maxed out! And I didn't lose a big deal! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: byzantine
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 22, 2009 10:18 pm PT
Review:  From the bold colour contrasts and beautiful urban landscapes to the intense acrobatic matrix-esque 
 martial arts, Mirror's Edge delivers.
  
  However, unlike most modern games, it requires a lot of skill and precision. Without a mouse I 
 think I would have walked away frustrated, but the accuracy needed to pull off the moves in this 
 game are perfectly suited to the PC. 
  
  The music sets the tone very well and has an ambient track, puzzle track and action track for nearly 
 every level. The cutscenes are very well done and remind me of Thief cutscenes (very distinct style) 
 but in place of shadows and darkness are bright lights and vibrant colours.
  
  The environment is breathtaking. As has been said before, with all the grimy realistic looking 
 games coming out, Mirror's Edge goes the opposite direction. An extremely bright world with sun 
 bouncing off the side of skyscrapers. Yet the entire time the squeeky clean streets give off a 
 feeling of oppression and that something isn't quite right. Which leads into the story.
  
  The story has two parts. Plot and characters. The plot does the job but doesn't quite live up to 
 its potential. A few interesting bits keep it a little spicy, but without giving away too much, 
 Dice fails to take a very interesting concept (frankly the runners and the resistance they provide 
 messages for) and expand on it. Instead it is just an afterthought and that is probably the most 
 dissapointing part of the game.
  
  The characters appear well developed, but it seems like although the devs have a bunch of backstory 
 on each one, none of that backstory is even remotely explained in the game (the only exception 
 is faith, the protagonist) . The decisions made by some supporting characters could really use some 
 explaining, but sadly very little is present. Like the plot, the characters really have tonnes 
 of potential.
  
  Overall this game caught me completely by surprise. After reading the GS review I didn't think 
 i'd give this game a chance, however it has impressed me. Alot. 
  
  Give it a shot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: christianrrf
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 22, 2009 10:07 pm PT
Review:  Dreaming. At first I was so excited to see what was this game about. I had seen the screenshots 
 since the release and I knew what I finally found here. Beautiful. Playing a Dream of a game. It 
 was like that. That was like my most emotional thoughts about what could possibly be a world like 
 this in my life.
  
  Disconnected. It was so amazing this game nothing can seem to stop my most lovely illusions. It 
 thought I could fall in love with the game until it broke my heart when the game CRASH!.
  
  My soul was crushed into broken autumm leafs of crystal. My game my most beautiful game. I can't 
 stop dreaming about this incredible piece of art.
  
  My life have changed since I played this game. Mirror's Edge looks like a Dhalis painting, like 
 pure water, like a baby born. Like a helping hand, like a soft breeze.
  
  You can't pass this game. Just buy it and play or dream. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: diioz
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 22, 2009 3:54 pm PT
Review:  Let's start with the good point that I believe that game has. Graphics are nice, if you get to 
 know how to really use the engine you can make those buildings roof look extremely real. The point 
 of the game was original, a somewhat air-walk game, just like those kids we saw on internet doing 
 crazy jumps on walls, was pretty cool to see. But I got extremely angry when it was time to execute 
 them. Controls are somehow stupid, the girl doesn't do what you though she would have done when 
 you pressed that button. She falls too often. Parts of the world are not accessible like you though 
 they would. Sometimes she's doing impossible moves, like jumping from an edge to an other only 
 by pushing with her forearm, who is able to do that ? not a girl shaped like 13... But the point 
 of the game isnt much the realistic aspect but the gameplay. I didnt like it at all, frustrating 
 views, going around inside buildings was ridiculous. No stress at all when police or other enemies 
 comes in sight, it remains the same; you run or try to. The story is a failure for my part, it 
 makes no sens at all... I couldnt see how you could believe in that... Video sequences were good, 
 but I would have appreciated them not to be in cartoon motion but in the game graphics. Still I 
 kept playing to beat the game, but I was too often frustrated then I enjoyed it. I wouldn't have 
 bought it, doesn't worth it, but nice try anyway. It could have been worse I guess. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Dragon_Wolf
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 22, 2009 3:21 pm PT
Review:  A very thrilling and well made game ( and excellent port if you are playing on PC ) , it takes the 
 traditional FPS formula and throws it out of the window then replaces it with innovative ideas 
 and smart presentation.
  
  The Good things:
  -----------------------
  -Frantic acrobatic maneuvers and free running ( it feels so good when you overcome a number of 
 obstacles in a row and doing it from the first person perspective makes it even more exciting )
 
  
  -Game Mechanics ( Runner vision, slow-mo and Disarming moves all add to the game and integrate 
 seamlessly into the experience enhancing it ) 
  
  -Graphics ( Top notch, it feels very unique specially with the smart use of bold basic colors, 
 and being able to see your feet and body while running and jumping does make it feel more immersive, 
 also the cut scenes while done in a different style are nice and stylish ) 
  
  The Bad:
  ------------
  -Weapons ( handling the guns is a little cranky but it is forgivable since you 
 rarely have to use guns and of course Faith isn't trained on using them ) 
  
  -It's quite short .. damn it .. i want more XD
  
  
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  A must buy ^_^ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jomicbro
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 22, 2009 6:00 am PT
Review:  Given EA's track record lately I wasn't really expecting that much, especially after reading reviews 
 for the console versions. But, it looked different so I put it on my list of games to play. A month 
 later (thank God they put the extra time into polishing the PC version) I install and start to 
 play this game, and I have to say... it's frickin' great, by any standards.
  
  The levels are really well thought-out and vibrantly colored. The whole city is colorful and sterile 
 at the same time and it actually feels like a city. Planes go by overhead, people walk the streets, 
 and the sounds give the game world a real lifelike quality that is difficult to get right.
  
  But the meat of this game is the action and it's phenomenal. I actually cringe when Faith (your 
 character) gets hit by a subway or falls to her death because I misjudged a jump (happens to me 
 a lot) . The hand-to-hand stuff isn't great nor are the shooting bits, but then this game isn't 
 a shooter or a brawler. When you are faced with combat, it's over quickly and it's back to the 
 running, which is what Mirror's Edge is all about. And I think this is where the PC version surpasses 
 the consoles versions. The controls are tight and not at all console-esque. The mouse and kb are 
 better suited for this type of game, and DICE got it right when they re-tooled the controls for 
 the PC. So often ports don't account for the increased accuracy of a mouse and keyboard, but this 
 game gets it just right. Couple that with the improved textures and the ability to play the game 
 at high resolutions (with Physx!) and the PC version comes out the clear winner. Every other game 
 developer should take notes (that's aimed at you bast*rds are Rockstar) , this is how you port a 
 game.
  
  I haven't been this surprised with a game for a long time. It came in under the radar (on the PC) 
 by missing the holiday season, nor was it highly publicized. DICE is just full of surprises and 
 I hope that they continue to diversify themselves from the Battlefield series and develop some 
 other IP's because they are clearly a talented lot. Also, I have to say well-done EA (man, I almost 
 choke on that) . For once, you got one right. Really right. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danlinenberg10
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 22, 2009 3:09 am PT
Review:  Had they did, they would have discovered possibly one of the best PC ports of all time, and it's 
 hard to do with PS3 and XBOX360 around.
  
  Mirror's edge is a thrill at worse, revolutionary at best. 
  It offers something no other game 
 has yet to offer on a scale so grand - 1st person platform. 
  When I saw the previews to this game I was thrilled, and couldn't believe when I read the review 
 to the console version (and the PC one for that matter) , I couldn't believe something so beautiful 
 is so bad. But It isn't !
  
  It is far better than the console version, and if you can let go of the of the awkward controls 
 for 3rd party controllers, it's nearly flawless.
  
  Gamespot should either hire more reviewers, or let go of their sponsors for 5 minutes to actually 
 test games before they copy paste reviews for them.
  
  BUY THIS GAME ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jemmy_skywalker
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 21, 2009 6:35 pm PT
Review:  mirrors edge is an amazing game with a new innovation about the gameplay. It is first person shooting 
 game but not concern on the shooting but it is about run... run... and jump !
  it has a fast gameplay that needs a good reflexs and it fast gameplay make our adrenaline pumped 
 when we played it.
  but the game timeline is too short, it can be longer gameplay with more story added. and it would 
 be nice.
  
  about the graphic, i am very excited because the graphic is very nice but doesnt need a killer 
 computer specs. i love it.
  nice game framerate with middle-class computer specs.
  i love the view of the city.
  
  about the sounds, sometimes the environment sounds is louder 
 than the vocal itself. it is very disturbing when we try to listen the dialog.
  
  overall.. this game is very nice
  a new game play.... with a great graphic..
  try this game...
 
  no regret.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dun
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 21, 2009 2:18 pm PT
Review:  mirror's edge starts kinda fuzzy with the controls however after a couple of tries one will be 
 able to master it efficiently. the hassle about the trial and error parts are simply part of games 
 such as Prince of Persia or Assassin's creed, where miscalculation is just part of the game. Mirror's 
 edge has great music and brilliant timing that gives you that extra kick to blast some mother's 
 head wide open.. either with a kick or with some nice sounding SAW ... :) .
  People who said that got bored... i say.. when the hell did you?: D no offense but throughout the 
 game i became a slick-sh*t killer. there was no actual repetition such as going clearing out some 
 place just walking in, shooting and get out. you have to use a little brain for it. :)
  
  overall... a really cool idea to introduce to the 1st person view... i personally put this game 
 in my top 10 for originality and fast-paced action. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gilanor
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 21, 2009 11:22 am PT
Review:  Summary: There are lots of things to like about this game. It provides some tense moments and it 
 is truly enjoyable when everything falls into place on a run. However, somehow the game feels a 
 little too much like a good concept that deserved a better treatment.
  
  Plot: Another plotline which aims to be rather too deep for the capabilities of both the writers 
 and the game itself. At times the plot felt both disjointed and badly developed so although there 
 was a vaguely interesting storyline hidden beneath it was let down by the attempt to force it into 
 some poor dialogue and a few cutscenes. That said, I am a little picky with computer game plots. 
 Other than 'The Witcher', which I found to be excellent, I have not really been impressed with 
 any plotline for a game. I also happen to think that it isn't really that important.
  
  Music/Sound: Despite the aforementioned uninteresting plot the game managed successfully to get 
 me incredibly tense and that was almost all due to the quality of the sound effects. It is the 
 music which brings the atmosphere to this game and makes it all the more satisfying when you complete 
 a difficult section.
  
  Difficulty: I played through the game once on normal and had to repeat no sequence more than a 
 couple of times before I worked it out. Really the difficulty in this game comes from attempting 
 to complete levels in the fastest possible time or in trying to complete a chapter without firing 
 any rounds.
  
  Combat: Mirror's edge should probably have been reworked so that it didn't involve any combat at 
 all. At best combat is unsatisfying and at worst it is downright annoying. Essentially it is very 
 easy to disarm an opponent and then use their gun to hose down the nearest enemy but it just isn't 
 very fun. I found that I enjoyed levels a lot more when I tried to avoid the enemy altogether rather 
 than confront them.
  
  Gameplay: The actual gameplay should be where Mirror's Edge really shines. The method of moving 
 around the game is novel (as far as I'm aware) and when you are running around trying to keep your 
 speed up to make the fastest run over a particular section it is incredibly satisfying. There are 
 fortunately very few moments where you have to make sure that you do something to within a silly 
 degree of accuracy. One or two that I remember involve jumping from long distance onto pipes. It 
 simply isn't a fun way to increase the difficulty of the game when if you miss by the smallest 
 margin you have to go back.
  
  Overview: I enjoyed playing the game through and will keep an eye out for similiar games to see 
 what other companies do with the concept. That said, it had far too many shortcomings to really 
 recommend it as a stand out game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Marxxus
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 21, 2009 4:28 am PT
Review:  I usually agree with gamespot on most games. I have to say, this is not one of them. I am really 
 enjoying the first person "lara croft'ish" gameplay. Not much gunplay for sure, but the rush of 
 jumping off a building to avoid sniper fire, or "barely" making that jump is a blast in itself. 
 
  
  I absolutely love the first person aspect, it adds full immersion and the challenge of not being 
 able to take advantage of a wider 3rd person view. No map to tell you where you are going.... is 
 a GREAT thing! This is truly a game... not a playable movie. 
  
  Great storyline, great graphics (that run very smooth) , is just the icing on the cake. I have let 
 a couple of friends try it out, and they went out and bought it. 
  
  If you like what I call "jumpy" games, this is a nice one to add to your collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Metaltude
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 21, 2009 2:10 am PT
Review:  Ok, so the game is new, is something we have not seen before and therefore should be astonishing? 
 No, I don't think so!
  
  Ok it's nice to play the first couple of levels, see how they built the levels, and jump, roll and 
 kick your way through a level. But that's it! constantly repeating itself, the rooms aren't the 
 same, but all actions are limited. You don't really can find your own path, it is all set out for 
 you..
  
  I find it a dodge, duck, jump and run game. the only yhing it ads is that you'll have to go look 
 for the red surfaces that will help you to get to the other side.
  
  This game is about running, cool, could be done better, but why the **** did they add a story line? 
 I mean, when the essence of the game is a sport, you should make the gameplay and all perfect, 
 and don't bother about a story. When I think about it, I don't really see why there should be any 
 fighting in this game. for me, it doesn't add anything...
  
  ~ regards~ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: noobEmata
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 21, 2009 1:32 am PT
Review:  Well what can i say, i believe mirror's edge is a cheap copy of assassin's creed, jumping from 
 one rooftop to another in fast pace mode, running from enemies with moves that would make even 
 Lara Croft jealous. The action of the game goes from rooftop to rooftop hardly being any fighting 
 at all, much of the game resumes to chasing, being chased or the or just jumping around on buildings 
 and pipes like a little japan-ese monkey. Going from one thing to another the game has an interesting 
 feature that let's you play a certain level saves your time on the level and then posts it on the 
 Internet so everyone sees. You can also race someone or just look at their go at the level by looking 
 at their shadow of the run that they have done. The graphics of the game look like you are playing 
 a cartoon instead of a 2009 game that requires a more than average video card. In the end i thing 
 Mirror's edge is a game to play if you do not have anything else on your pc, that will eat about 
 10-20 hours of your time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ping5000
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 21, 2009 12:55 am PT
Review:  Or you can just watch my video review: http://www. youtube. com/watch? v=aBdR-X3dj18 -- Shameless 
 plug to score hits, I know.
  
  Mirror's Edge is first and foremost, a platformer. Sure, you can shoot a gun, but for the most 
 part, it's all about jumping over and across stuff, hoping you don't miss your mark and die. That 
 pretty much describes what a platformer generally is, but DICE attempts to do it all in the first-person 
 perspective. That is not an ideal viewpoint to do any kind of jumping, but for the most part, DICE 
 pulls it off with a great deal of success. There are potential advantages in using this perspective 
 in this genre and DICE fully realizes and utilizes said potential. There are a myriad of issues 
 that could've definitely been given some fine-tuning, but for the most part, Mirror's Edge is absolutely 
 worth a try.
  
  To give all the platforming and free-running some context, the game's set in a totalitarian society, 
 where information is controlled and sterility is an idealistic and aesthetic preference. The government 
 is oppressive and the people conform. There isn't much leeway for going against the grain. So, 
 to circumvent Big Brother's watchful eye, runners are tasked with transporting sensitive information 
 by vaulting over rooftop over rooftop, sending information when needed. You're one of them and 
 you take up the role of Faith. 
  
  There's a lot of potential with a setting like this, but it's squandered. The game's plot is largely 
 concerned with a murder mystery involving Faith's sister, Kate, as she is framed for a murder she 
 didn't commit. One uninteresting lead leads to another just as uninteresting, all culminating into 
 an ending that doesn't tie up any loose ends. A bigger, grander story arc does arise around the 
 half-way point, but it's just as uninteresting. Plot twists are easy to identify, the characters 
 are flat and even calling them one-dimensional is a stretch. Even worse is how the story is presented; 
 most of the game's cut-scenes use what seems to be Flash. There are clear limitations when using 
 Flash as a visual medium, like animation and Mirror's Edge's cut-scenes suffer from this. If this 
 was a stylistic choice, then I think this was a mistake. On the bright side, the in-game cut-scenes 
 are a lot better. Ultimately, the game's story acts a vehicle to get you to the next level, but 
 lacks the motivation to make you want learn more about the game's character and story.
  
  But you know, we play games to, well, play them and Mirror's Edge is truly unique. In the most 
 simplest and general terms, it's like Prince of Persia, except it's less automated, a little more 
 plausible as far as laws of physics goes and entirely in first-person. Wall-running, pole vaulting 
 and even a tumble or a roll will be seen exclusively through Faith's eyes. Surprisingly, I didn't 
 find any of it be disorienting. It just felt right.
  
  And that's the greatest pro first-person brings to Mirror's Edge. I felt every motion, jump, fall, 
 maneuver and every face-first death. The sensation is slightly euphoric, extremely exciting and 
 immeasurably entertaining. That's Mirror's Edge at its best: When you're jumping from rooftop to 
 rooftop and cheating death with every leap as bullets wing and zing past you; the perspective makes 
 it work; it makes Mirror's Edge unique.
  
  There are huge drawbacks with using first-person for a platformer, too and DICE unfortunately does 
 nothing to alleviate those issues. Seeing everything through Faith's eyes is severely limiting; 
 there are times when you have rebound off a wall and you're going to be jumping blind doing it. 
 Trial and error becomes an issue and there's a lot of guesswork involved with some of the more 
 dangerous and daring sections of the game. It's not really a matter of timing; without the situational 
 awareness a third-person platformer provides, it's kind of impossible. Just hope you guessed the 
 timing of your jump correctly the first time or expect to do it over and over again.
  
  Level design also presents an issue. For every open and rooftop escapade, a cramped interior level 
 shows up. There's nothing wrong with these levels, but they are not nearly as fun as the exterior 
 ones. They're a lot more methodical and you have to really look for stuff you can grab onto. Faith's 
 runner vision  platforming objects turn red  does keep these areas from being a complete 180 
 to the game's pacing, but it just seems to spit in the face of what Mirror's Edge does best. Again, 
 these corridors are still fun, but the game would've benefited from more outdoor spaces. 
  
  What is undoubtedly the weakest element of the gameplay is the combat. Disarming the fuzz is 
 satisfying enough; right-click when their gun glows red and Faith will follow that up with a sweet 
 disarm. Once I actually fired the gun, it felt really clunky and extremely unsatisfying, which 
 is just confounding, considering DICE has been making Battlefied games for over half a decade. 
 There's also hand-to-hand, which is incredibly basic and completely useless when you're outnumbered. 
 Generally, most of the combat can be skipped by simply running past all the boys in the blue, but 
 the later sections of the game do force gunplay on you. So, to reiterate: The combat is not good.
 
  
  Graphically, it's basically impossible to tell that Mirror's Edge uses Unreal 3.0 to render the 
 game's world. Maybe it's the lack of brown and grays. Whatever the case, Mirror's Edge has a great 
 art style. Its minimalist, simple color scheme and the clean, sterile look makes for areas that 
 look oddly attractive, kind of like Portal. A lot of visual effects, like depth of field and how 
 everything on the edges of the screen blurs put me in Faith's shoes that much more. The game has 
 a tendency to get crazy bright, blindingly bright even, with excessive and overdone use of lighting, 
 but the game has a great look.
  
  Mirror's Edge also implements PhysX, which as the capital "X" implies, provides some extreme physics. 
 Banners tear and rip from bullets, glass shards remain in the game world, and smoke and steam move 
 and sway when you run past it. They do nothing to add to the gameplay, but they sure are distracting, 
 because of how impressive it looks in action. The game can seize up when a lot of extreme physics 
 go on at any given time, but if you've got the horsepower, then definitely go for it. Don't forget 
 to install the latest patch for the game and PhysX drivers. They'll definitely give you a boost 
 in performance and stability. They did for me.
  
  Audio is, well, I found the audio to be flawless. Perhaps it's because I have a major bias toward 
 electronic music, but Mirror's Edge delightfully tickled my auditory senses. The music is simply 
 awesome. If you like ambient electronica, if you like Aphex Twin, if you like Amon Tobin and Kelly 
 Bailey (okay, last one might be a bit of stretch) you're going to love the music in Mirror's Edge. 
 Guaranteed. Sound effects are fantastic. The wind rushing past Faith, her breath getting heavier 
 with each successive step and all the little things, like the rustling sound of her clothes do 
 a lot add to the intrinsic entertainment of running and jumping. Just fantastic audio work.
  
  Mirror's Edge is short. 5 hours short. It's brief, but it's packed with a ton of exhilarating 
 moments with the odd combat or lull in pacing to put things out of joint for a short while. There's 
 some nice artwork you can unlock, as well time trials. Pick a level, try your best and then put 
 your times up on leaderboards. You can even get ghosts of people better than you, so you can hopefully 
 get better than them. While not a substitute for a full-on multi-player mode that has you racing 
 against other players in open-ended levels (NOT SO SUBTLE HINT TO DICE) , it did make me spend a 
 couple hours trying to better myself. Also, new DLC levels are planned for the end of this month, 
 so Mirror's Edge has some legs.
  
  Mirror's Edge is supposedly the first of a trilogy and as much I don't like how developers segment 
 their games like this, I want a sequel. DICE has laid out a solid foundation for their new franchise. 
 Spruce up the platforming mechanics, keep with the first-person perspective, either get rid of 
 the combat or improve it and hire a good writer. But what we get right here and now is absolutely 
 worth playing.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: windfish113
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 20, 2009 9:46 pm PT
Review:  Looks really good, runs smooth, sucks you in immediately and doesn't let go. I played through the 
 single player campaign in one day, and really wished it was a bit longer. 
  
  Some of the little things really come together to make this game great - the voice acting is amazing, 
 the sounds of the guns are loud and shocking, and the controls (at least for me) were intuitive 
 and simple. There is one button for "up" (jump, climb, etc) and one for down (roll, crouch, drop, 
 you get the idea.) I used a 360 controller and found it really added to the experience. The game 
 is challenging but not frustratingly so, and unlike a lot of platformers the environments don't 
 get repetitive. 
  
  The story is a little limited but what there is works to draw you in and makes you care about the 
 main character. I wish there was a little more backstory into the city, the other characters, etc.
 
  
  Maybe i am just happy to see a decent PC port after a year of disappointment, but this game is 
 truly solid, and i would love to see a sequel or expansion in the near future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alex41790
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 20, 2009 8:40 pm PT
Review:  When many people look at mirrors edge, they see a new idea of a game that allows the player to 
 participate in "parkour" or free running. Where they are given a city and even though there are 
 tall buildings and high fences, these boundaries cannot stop them because the nature of a free 
 runner is to find a way to the top. For many gamers, this was looking to be a very exciting and 
 enjoyable game.
  As an owner of all of the new gen consoles along with a PC, I downloaded the demo on the PS3, and 
 I must admit that the demo gave me high hopes for the game. The graphics were top notch along with 
 the fluidity of the game if you have the true runner touch. So after playing the demo a couple 
 of times, I decided to get the game for the PC (I'm more of a PC gamer than a console gamer.) I 
 played through the first chapter which was familiar due to the demo with ease and continued my 
 journey through Faith's story. However as I continued to play, all those images of gaming grandeur 
 began to fade, and instead, a feeling of dj vu set in. All the following levels seemed to have 
 the exact same game play contained within them. I mean granted there are only so many ways you 
 can climb a building or jump through a window but it seemed like the game designers just didn't 
 put enough variation into it.
  And even though some may think that this game is bringing something new to the gaming table, in 
 reality it is not. One of the main components of the Prince of Persia games was essentially free 
 running, having to climb tall buildings or wall run across huge open gaps of a city. And if people 
 believe that PoP wasn't really a free runner game I'd like to bring up Assassins Creed which was 
 very much a free running game with an assassination component added to it (even though the game 
 play in that wasn't all that elaborate either.)
  So all in all I don't feel that this game is worth the $50 dollars that it charges you to play. 
 It can keep you entertained with time trials but as far as the main storyline goes, it took me 
 at max 5-6 hours to beat. And with news of Mirror's Edge becoming a trilogy, I wonder if it is 
 possible for them to redeem themselves and make a game that does give us something new and exciting
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kro_429
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 20, 2009 2:55 pm PT
Review:  This game is revolutionary in almost every way, from artistic style to gameplay it introduces a 
 new way to look at first person gaming. As I first began to play I had many complaints, however, 
 as I progressed further and further all those melted away into a wonderful experience until it 
 was abruptly ended by the credits.
  
  The single player was painfully short, however, the time trials easily make up for it and allow 
 it to reasonably keep its $49.95 price tag. The only thing necessary to make this game perfect 
 would have been to create an open world environment similar to Far Cry 2 or Assassin's Creed. While 
 both these games had their flaws (too much driving in Far Cry 2 and gameplay flaws in Assassin's 
 Creed) , the general mission layout and method of objective distribution would be perfect for such 
 an environment. The creation of a city where you could literally go anywhere and do anything, a 
 city where you can actually do normal running mission, one that dynamically changes as it gets 
 harder would be the epitome of perfection for a game like this. I would love nothing more than 
 to spend hours running through such an artistically perfect city transporting bags and following 
 main missions. If such an environment could truly be made with today's hardware capabilities and 
 within the limits of the engine, that would be the perfect Mirror's Edge experience.
  
  However, as it is it is an excellent start to a wonderful new experience in gaming, one shouldn't 
 expect so much at the start. (Get to work Dice ;) ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rombie1234
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 20, 2009 1:00 pm PT
Review:  I was kinda of hesitant at first to get this, as of lately I haven't seen anything impressive by 
 EA in a long time and the Securom only further deterred me. But Im glad to say this one is actually 
 a great title coming from them.
  
  The gameplay oozes creativity and its the first to my knowledge to come up with such a game. The 
 only thing that I can think of that comes close to the climbing is Assassin's Creed which doesn't 
 come close in that respect. The story is a bit weak and cliche with some almost too obvious plot 
 twist, but its not so boring as to skip them altogether. The style of cut scenes is unique to say 
 the least, whether thats good or bad is anybodys preference. the climbing is creatively done and 
 it has acrobatic style with a first person angle to make it feel realistic. while running and climbing 
 are great, being chased while doing so can really get your adrenaline going, if you do it right 
 you can impress yourself with how fast you move and how things come together. Solving a problem 
 of how to get from point A to point B is almost never as obvious as it looks and its a lot of fun 
 trying to figure out how to complete the mission. However with experimentation comes trial and 
 error and there is A LOT of error. Depending on your skill you might end up getting more frustrated 
 with the game then having fun. Saving is done in the form of checkpoints no player based saving 
 so if you died during a jump right before a checkpoint you have to restart at the beginning of 
 the last which is pretty lame especially if you just got past the hardest part of that checkpoint 
 and fell off right after. 
  
  When it comes to combat it's interesting but lacking, theres a lot of things they could improve 
 on like the control of moves and the variety of actions to subdue your enemies. Overall its not 
 bad but its not the highlight of the game. Graphic-wise the city and textures are very crisp the 
 colors stand out and the shadows look good and make sense. theres not that much in terms of detail, 
 everything is neat not alot of clutter in the future I suppose. The music also matches the environment, 
 I found it to be good chase music when being chased, good BG music when merely climbing everything 
 seemed to match its corresponding actions. 
  
  This title is great however its short, too short, if you were good at the game and persistent you 
 might be able to finish this in 5-6 hours maybe less. That doesn't really justify its $50 price 
 tag right now. I would wait until the price drops to get a good price: entertainment ratio before 
 picking it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: colt_tudor
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 20, 2009 1:29 am PT
Review:  Hello!
  Hmmm... I first found out about this game last week in gamespot. I've watched the trailers and 
 I've said to myself: "parkour?"... But the word didn't appear in any descriptions. The thing is 
 that I've seen few movies about parkour and I've always wanted to do that. But my average physical 
 condition stopped me. Yes, if you could make parkour within the comfort of may office-chair or 
 in my car-chair, yes, I would try it... But my beer-belly stops me... 10 push-ups is the average 
 for every computer-geek like me... but not enough for parkour. So, 6 month ago, I've seen another 
 French movie with guys jumping off roofs and I've said to myself: "how could you make an parkour 
 game? how would it look like?" Now I know how it LOOKS like, how it FEELS.
  When installing the game, I was wondering how many keys were necessary to play this game... W-S-A-D 
 were not enough... But after installing I've got a big surprise: not so many keys... By default 
 the keys are W-S-A-D, SPACE+SHIFT. At first it seemed difficult to play with those keys but after 
 the tutorial those keys were just right... Do not attempt to use these keys with a futuristic-shaped 
 keyboard. It will not work, unless you play it upside-down... Some research must have been made 
 because the thumb goes naturally on the SPACE and the little finger goes on SHIFT. Just right. 
 So... to the game... The game loads very quick, which is a plus... The first big minus I've found 
 is that the game would crash really quick unless you disable the PhysX (unless you really have 
 such a card) . After that, everything worked just fine... The game also has some issues and crashes 
 if you use DivX in background (my computer runs also as a media player for my wife) .
  So... she came along and... surprise... she wanted to try the game... And she's like a  
 kind-of-player... And she got the game right... Which is also a plus for the game...
  The game gives you a nice feeling when jumping off a roof without knowing if you were supposed 
 to jump in that direction... It's the most daring thing someone like me (married with children, 
 33 years old, office work, computer geek) could do.
  After 3-4 hours spent playing the missions, I've looked after a "replay" button, a 3rd person or 
 different camera view of the jumps... This is why I've gave the game only 8... You could see in 
 different angles car-crashes at high-octane games but the first parkour game didn't gave you the 
 rights to see what you have done...
  During the gameplay I've wanted to replay a scenario to see if I can get it right and flowing, 
 like those magnificent real-life jumpers... And this is called time-trial. I haven't tried yet 
 the online activity.
  It could seem annoying to someone that you die several times during a 50-meter run, but it's trial-and-error 
 game... Also, it's a nice to watch game... I've looked at the computer screen for 2 hours while 
 my wife played the missions I've played before. Not boring!
  In time, you get the moves timed right and everything goes smoothly. For example, do not try to 
 use the stairs as in a normal 1st person shooter. Just jump and turn at the end of stairs.. Cool 
 and fast... At least you have to try this game.
  Yes, it's a cool game! Yes, it's addictive! Yes, it's innovative! I'm pretty sure someone will 
 make another parkour game, even better. Soon, I hope. Mirror's Edge 2 or another title, I sure 
 want to try it... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skeuri
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 19, 2009 10:03 am PT
Review:  Having also played Prince of Persia '08 recently I was glad to see that the control-scheme and 
 overall difficulty of Mirror's Edge ups the ante. No automatic gameplay here. Yes, you'll die a 
 lot trying to pull something off but finally nailing an ace move now actually give a great sense 
 of achievement. 
  
  Comparing this game to Fallout 3 it would be easy to complain about the length of the campaign. 
 I finished the campaign in about a day and a half; probably 10hrs in all. But it was intense all 
 the way and didn't feel rushed at any point.
  
  After the campaign is over there is more than enough to keep you busy for some time to come. Normally 
 I never enjoy timetrials in any kind of racing game but this time round it's different. Because 
 there are more ways than one to reach your goal in any level, trying to figure out the route to 
 a top time adds a new dimension.
  
  There are issues as well however. First off: system performance isn't great. On my Phenom X4 2.6 
 I had to tone down the resolution and anti-aliasing to get it running smoothly all the time.
  
  Second, for some reason the developers thought it would be nice to mix two types of cutscenes: 
 some of the cutscenes are made with the ingame engine while others are made in a 2D comic style 
 animation. They're not bad but the reason for the mix eludes me.
  
  Anyway, this is a great title. It's original gameplay, beautiful design en sense of achievement 
 means that this is worth every cent of it's price.
  
  8.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zigmars_r
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 19, 2009 4:40 am PT
Review:  Main character in most fps games is only able to run jump and shoot. This game is an example for 
 all fps games how the player must be able to move. Like GTA IV is an example how every game must 
 use physics engines (I hope Rockstar finishes the game) . I am mostly racing games fan but this 
 partly is a racing game only on foot. I can't believe g-spot gave only 7 points (they gave 9 to 
 game witch they call unfinished lazy port) . The Mirrors Edge looks perfect on medium gaming PC 
 and requirements is as the box says no lies. This game doesn't need a demo. It looks much better 
 than in videos, because PC has better resolution. I was afraid that controls will be difficult, 
 but they are better than I expected. I like the slow motion feature. I enable it when jumping huge 
 leaps and I look down at streets... amazing feeling. Have fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ady_1102
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 18, 2009 9:31 pm PT
Review:  What more can i say? @ first i was skeptical about this game, i mean, could it really rise up to 
 our expectations? Well, in my opinion it has done that and much more..... The main character, Faith 
 is well constructed, the gameplay is innovative and immersive, the story is pretty good in my opinion, 
 coming from EA i though : "o my god, not another stupid storyline", but since Dead Space EA has 
 showed us that good stuff can be made, and Mirror's Edge is just another example..... oh and the 
 soundtrack, oh my god, it's awesome.
  The only minus in my opinion that this game has is that is TOOO short, damn i loved it if it was 
 a little longer, and maybe the introduction of the PhysiX tehnology through the game, my opinion 
 is that it had a few glitches, fixed of course with the 1.01 patch.... i have a Nvidia GForce 8800GT 
 alpha dog edition from XfX, and a amd athlon x2 x64 5200+ and the game work without a single frame 
 drop, from what i have heard from my friends that still have old PC's. the game worked fine on 
 their rigs also, so it's very well optimized.....
  I really hope that EA & DICE will make a sequel 2 this, and maybe who knows, a movie, because the 
 story fits the big screen very well.
  All in all, an extraordinary game, i thing i'm gonna try it on hard mode :p 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarcioNeves
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 18, 2009 6:06 pm PT
Review:  Overview:
  Are you looking for a game that doesn't leave you with the feeling that you have played something 
 very similar?
  Do you want to play a new genre?
  Well, this is it... 
  
  I've just walked through the story, and here is my short review:
  + A mixture of 1st person shooter 
 (almost with no shooting ) , with a racing game where you dont have to steer, accelerate, brake, 
 etc.
  + The "runners" go with the flow, and you can really feel this flow!!!
  + The story is pretty cool
  + The soundtrack is very immersive
  - Too short
  (+/-) Sometimes 
 you repeat a sequence a lot to get pass some obstacles, but I never got frustrated. The checkpoints 
 are well placed.
  
  Graphics: 9
  Gameplay: 8.5
  Soundtrack: 8.5
  
  Stability/ Performance:
  I've only found one or two bugs, and the game never crashed. I haven't 
 a top notch rig, and the game's fps maintained above the acceptable levels.
  Dice made a great job about level's loading... you almost don't feel them... (the loading's happen 
 in elevators, or in small compartments)
  
  Conclusion:
  Dont pass this title. If you want 10 hours of great gameplay, just play Mirror's Edge. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: n0madc0re
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 18, 2009 2:59 pm PT
Review:  Mirror's Edge is a huge step in gaming for me (I've been playing VGames for 21 years, on all platforms) , 
 for one simple reason : This game reached the unique point where you ARE the mirror of its quality.
 
  
  Front side of the mirror : If you fail at connecting jumps, timing disarms, or constant running, 
 then you will feel it clunky, boring, and repetitive.
  
  Back side of the mirror : Succeed in all what's above, and you will create a constantly running, 
 invincible, irresistible force. Yes, you will CREATE the perfect motion, while the scenario will 
 add great audiovisuals at YOUR service.
  
  That's it, all the bad reviews are simply bad players.
  Because when you're becoming good at 
 it, everything starts to connect.
  
  And on a side note : Mister pro-reviewers, you can't say that "combats are bad", because the main 
 weapon of the game is not combat ... Haven't you realized it in all those videos and tutorials, 
 seeing Faith constantly disarming her opponents ?
  
  
  
  I really, really hope everybody will buy this game, just to say "Thank you" to DICE. We need more 
 games like that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ky9
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 18, 2009 11:50 am PT
Review:  In a lot of ways this game is just like Kill Bill, and if you think of it that way I think you 
 appreciate this game a whole lot more. It's highly stylized like Kill Bill with bright, pure colors 
 and a clean, refined look and slightly over-the-top characters. It has a kickass heroine with pretty 
 much a whole army after her. It's intercut with animated sequences. It even has a wise old mentor 
 who calls her "Kiddo". And just like Kill Bill, it has people split down the middle where you either 
 love it or hate it. 
  
  WHY YOU SHOULD GET THIS GAME:
  This game has pretty much a little bit of every game that I've enjoyed in it. A lot of the time 
 it has a level of immersion I've only seen in Half Life 2 where you really feel like you are the 
 protagonist. The setting and the storyline remind me somewhat of Perfect Dark (N64) . There is of 
 course a feeling of (the old) Prince of Persia with how smooth and graceful the movement is and 
 how to strategically handle a mob of enemies. And there's a little bit of Tomb Raider too where 
 you need to look around and gauge your abilities with the environment (and also find secret items) . 
 In fact it's everything I'd want in one game.
  
  This is also definitely a maddening game where you'll die a lot. A LOT. Personally I didn't mind 
 this at all. I didn't die because I didn't know what I was doing, but because I had to get my timing 
 figured out just right. And this makes sense -- parkour isn't supposed to be easy! It's all about 
 precision! If they dumbed it down to just "press jump" all the time you'd just end up with the 
 new Prince of Persia. 
  
  The graphics in this game are BEAUTIFUL. It's a completely new and refreshing place to be in but 
 it's also eerily familiar to our world. And the audio is stunning, from Faith's extremely realistic 
 breathing (you can hear her breathing become more or less frantic as she runs or slows down) to 
 the sound of the wind rushing by your ears as you sprint on a rooftop. What? Ears? Yes that's how 
 realistic it is. Plus this game might possibly have the best soundtrack I've ever heard for a video 
 game. 
  
  But the gameplay itself is the real winner. I don't know who said that you can't master the wall-run 
 right away, but they're wrong. Or maybe just playing with a console. It's simple and surprisingly 
 intuitive, not too easy and not too hard. It goes something like: sprint -- build up speed -- more 
 speed! - panting like a marathon runner, wind rushing by your ears, whoooooom!! you just leapt 
 from a crane hundreds of feet from the ground below. Yes that is called adrenaline rush, and the 
 game is like that start to finish. It moves so fast that you barely have time to think, and by 
 the end you'll be thinking like a runner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tarantyno
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 18, 2009 5:09 am PT
Review:  I am playing this game since yesterday morning, and currently I am around 6 hours of playing it, allthough 
 its difficult to know how much you played exactly. 
  
  Mirrors Edge isnt a FPS, its more like the anti-shooter first person experience. If you are familliar 
 with "parkour", then this is Parkour-The Game. 
  You are Faith, a hot asian chick with skills, you see things from her eyes. Its so unique to be 
 so agile and quick, it really putts your mind and reflexes to the test. For me it didnt took long 
 to get used to the controls. And then whenever you have to run like hell and make all the jumps, slides 
 and climbings right, its adrennaline rush to the max. Allmost makes you wanna run out and try it 
 for real.
  
  The graphycs are really amasing and even mind-blowing at times. The sound effects-also spectacular.
 
  There is one major element of the game that might be a turn-off to some gamers: the difficulty. 
 You die a lot, at certain places, untill you figure out the trick or just get it right. For me, in 
 this game, that didnt bother me at all. 
  If you get past the first few levels, you will notice the similarity between places. Some are bothered 
 by it and say its repetitive. I disagree.
  
  And I repeat: this is not a First Person Shooter, not even close. It was never meant to be one.
 
  
  
  
  ... and as a final note: Hey GameSpot , you gave FarCry2 an 8,5 and couldnt give Mirrors Edge at 
 least an 8? Shame on you 
::::::

::::::
UserName: koteishe
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 18, 2009 4:50 am PT
Review:  Well i was very intrigued from the first moment i read about "Mirror's Edge" from the magazine. 
 My main doubt was how DICE is going to deliver first person free running. Because unlike "Assassin's 
 Creed" when you are in first person you do not have a 360 view of your character. However DICE 
 managed to deliver a thrilling experience and breath taking setting. It's been a while since I've 
 been so submerged into the game. When you yourself experience a thrill and anxiety while fleeing 
 from enemies or when you start to guess if you are going to make it to the ledge while your in 
 free fall to the next building.
  Overall Mirror's Edge is and amassing title and for sure is a breakthrough in terms of 3rd person 
 game play. Even the cut scenes give just the right mood to the game with its animated style. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BDL91
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 18, 2009 12:20 am PT
Review:  The Good
  
  Graphics - Textures are perfect , with solid coulurs it makes this game look fututristic and an 
 amazing environment to explore through out the game
  
  Performance - Mirror's Edge came to as a suprise to me when i played it, i was expecting something 
 a little more buggy , but having finished the game without 1 bug or glitch show thats this game 
 was very well constructed and runs at a sloid FPS . I tested it , on a 6600gt (minnimum card) And 
 it runs very well on lowest setting and still looks better than it should.
  
  Gameplay - Great Gameplay, easy to use controls it pretty much run, jump ,shoot, duck which make 
 its easy to move faster and do some cool moves
  
  Storyline - 'Short and Sweet' It doesn take much to finish the game but atleast it doesnt go forever! 
 with an easy to follow , movie like storyline
  
  The Bad
  
  No Controller support - Tested out a pc controller and had no luck getting it to work , but that 
 all comes with owning a PC so not to worry.
  
  Audio - The Audio can be a bit annoying sometimes especially when the surrounding enivronmnet .. eg. 
 Constuction sites, police sirens , become louder than character voices and radio messages causing 
 you to be unable to hear your objectives/storyline
  
  Can be Frustrating at times - The difficulty with enemy fighting is ok , having easy , Med , hard 
 etc but there is still some tricky spots and moves you have to pull through out the game , i found 
 finishing it on easy was a bit better because the it give you a chance to learn how to move swifly 
 and faster then trying Medium or hard
  
  This game definately deseverves to be bought , i wouldnt regret buying it for a second
  
  9/10 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stefan1331
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 17, 2009 3:06 pm PT
Review:  It's a pretty good game. Not to long to get boring, not to short to be ... too short. Too bad it's 
 more of an arcade game then a simulation of free running. Also I hoped that after finishing the 
 game it would let me run free through all the city without limits, being able to get from one side 
 of the city to the other on any path I choose ... but it didn't happen - only some areas unlocked 
 for races.
  The story it's not a big deal but the action is pretty good. Could've been better with little improvements.
 
  The realism of the main character's abilities is kept well in bounds. While some actions could 
 be done better by real humans (like maximum speed when running, crossing a beam, climbing a tall 
 wall) Faith also has her extra-human abilites (jumping over long distances, running on walls) .
 
  
  The great part is that it's a game that keeps you coming back for more even when the story is finished. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JustRen
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 17, 2009 1:42 pm PT
Review:  Although I have played lots of FPS games on both my PC and PS3/2, I have never played on that has 
 the level of originality that Mirror's Edge delivers. The vibrant colors on the buildings and environments, 
 that immersive first person view, the sense of speed and adrenaline, they all blend in very well. 
 Some might ask, what would be so interesting in a game that focuses on running instead of combat, 
 isn't combat what fps games are all about?
  
  Well, first of all, Mirror's edge is not a first person shooter, nor is it really an existing genre. 
 It's more likely to be the start of a new genre, namely a first person speed platformer. Because 
 that's very plainly put, what it really is.
  
  You play as Faith, a runner for some kind of organization that delivers packages for other organizations; 
 packages that cannot end up in the hands of the totalitaristic government that runs the world in 
 Mirror's Edge. The runners don't really mind the police, and the police leave the runners alone. 
 However, once you find out your sister has been blamed for the murder on a police chief, you quickly 
 come to the conclusion that this world is more corrupt than you might think. 
  
  As the story emerges, the dificulty of the environments and puzzles also evolve. Personally I think 
 that that gives you a very good sense of your progress, and also makes you want to practice in 
 the extra game mode Time Trial. After you beat the game, you unlock another extra game mode, namely 
 Speedrun, which is basicly you trying to complete a given chapter in the fastest possible time. 
 There are online leaderboards, so the competition is fairly heavy. 
  
  Now, on to the actual gameplay. The game begins with you getting a quick tutorial from one of your 
 runner mates, Celeste. She teaches you how to jump over obstacles, slide under them, shimmey allong 
 edges, wallrun, and jump from pole to pole, prince of persia style. She also teaches you the basics 
 of combat in game, which is really pretty basic, but then again, that's not what this game is about. 
 The gameplay mechanic works out really great, with pretty much only a few buttons: jump, duck and 
 attack. Jump being moving over obstacles, jumping accross ledges, and jumping on to higher platforms. 
 Duck is for slides under obstacles, hiding under them, or walking through ventilator shafts. And 
 ofcourse attacking, which is exactly what it is, based on if you jump, slide, wallrun, spin or 
 just fly straight at your enemy. 
  
  As you move over the rooftops, you'll notice that alot of it, is 'conveniently placed', or with 
 other words, there's always a perfect route to your end goal. However, you are free to go and choose 
 you own route, so you'll never have to stop every few seconds to look around and find the perfect 
 route, but just keep running and jumping all you want. There isnt really a set speed for when you 
 run, but rather it's based on your momentum and dynamic movement, which means that you need to 
 keep on running to go faster and move swiftly, instead of stopping for sightseeing. Although sightseeing 
 isn't really punished, as you get up to speed fairly quicly. 
  
  Though, as I stated before, most of the objects look conveniently placed, the whole environment 
 looks really alive, and the vibrant colors and 'white' whites make the buildings look detailed 
 and really add to the feeling that you are high up in the sky. Although there are moments that 
 you need to move to ground level, you'll very likely be prompted to get up as fast as you can, 
 just so you can enjoy the view. Mirror's Edge does a great job in delivering a sense of hugeness, 
 with buildings rising impressively high into the sky and huge silo's being used as training grounds. 
 
  
  Although the game and story are very entertaining, it also has a few minor faults. For instance, 
 the combat is sometimes frustrating, because be it as it may that this game is not about combat, 
 you'll still have lots of situations where you are simply forced into taking out your opponents. 
 Although it is said that that ME can be beaten without ever having to fire a weapon, it is extremely 
 hard to do, and it's often very tempting to just disarm an opponent, pick up his weapon, and shoot 
 the remaining baddies from behind cover, completely killing the flow of this game. 
  
  Another bad aspect of ME is that, although it delivers really well, and keeps you on the 'edge' 
 of your seat at all times, it's really short in terms of beating the main story. Most gamers will 
 probably be able to beat it in a day or two, giving you only about roughly 5 hours of story, not 
 counting the sightseeing. It partially makes up for that by providing you with two extra game modes 
 which I mentioned earlier, Speedrun and Time Trial, but what it really lack (in my honest opinion) 
 is a solid multiplayer mode. Because what could possibly be more entertaining that freerunning 
 with your buddies, or racing them from ground level to the highest rooftop? 
  
  Still, Mirror's Edge is truly a great game and it was well worth the wait for us PC gamers, with 
 its low system requirements and it's mouse and keyboard controls. I can definitely recommend this 
 game to anyone who likes a good rush, and ALOT of fun. I can't wait for the next two parts in this 
 trilogy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: invincibler
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 19, 2009 3:57 am PT
Review:  Well, this game is really every thing is was advertised to be. The gameplay is great. I never knew 
 being a acrobatic asian chick could be so much fun. I haven't found a single glitch/bug from my 
 1st playthrough, or any imperfections, like many games released recently. BIG thumbs up.
  Gameplay: 9
  The storyline is good, not great, but good and solid. Your sister who's a cop got 
 framed, and you set out to protect her only to find out you're protecting all runners. I've seen 
 similar stories in many games. It's a solid plot. However, I'd love to have a sexier sister: P.
 
  Storyline: 8
  This game rocks performance-wise. With my 1-year-old PC, which has 1GB RAM DDR2 667, 8500GT, Core 
 2 Duo E6420 2.13GHz, it simply looks AMAZING! Even though my graphics card, according to yougamers. com, 
 just barely matches performance of the minimum system requirements, I played through the whole 
 game on 1024x768, med, med, physX on and it was super smooth.
  Performance: 10!
  This is where there is a bit of a let down. The sounds. The voice acting was good, the music was 
 great, BUT I'd like to have an option to tune down the background noises. It was really hard to 
 hear the dialogues almost 90% of the time. I had to turn on subtitles, which really sucked.
  Sound: 7
  
  Overall, this game is great, and I was really pleased at how smooth it ran. This 
 is a must buy!!!
  
  And to the people that thinks this is a FPS game, its not! I know of only 1 level in this game 
 where you HAVE to use a gun, and that's where you rescue your sister from a flaming police car. 
 This is more like a first person action game. And the FPS elements in this game are very well done. 
 If there is no reload button, you should know that using a gun is not the main point of this game. 
 It helps, but most of the time it isn't necessary 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Daword
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 17, 2009 5:13 am PT
Review:  im played more than 200pc games. so i know what games are realy good and what game are boring or 
 just realy bad
  i allways buy those new pc games and try them 
  im almost played every new pc game.. so if i give 9-10 points its have to be a REALY good game 
 and u shoul buy it or even try it =)
  someone give games 9-10 points just to easyly, i give those points only for masterpieces..
  and 
 i dont write big review i give now only points and thats because my main language is not enghlis 
 so its brety hard to write.
  so my enghlis is not so good that i can tell every nice or bad things in games.. so i use only 
 points =)
  i hope everyone understand that and if not dont take it personaly i just try to give my own opinion 
 those games whitout words.. 
  i think brety many just look those numbers? ;) thx to undertanding
  
  Graphic 7/10
  
  Sounds 
 5/10
  
  Gameplay 7/10
  
  Overall 6.5/10
  
  sometimes very frustrating game... i didint like game idea. its new idea but not so good 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darwin356
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 17, 2009 5:07 am PT
Review:  Man this game rocks! can't believe they just gave a 7.0 hope they come up with a sequel though 
 i've just began playing it : )
  
  Man the view really is amazing! if only they put on a jump-chute for her. hahaha! just like Just 
 Cause in this case she really needs it .
  
  and wish they could have made it an option to view the game in third person view though hehe
 
  but really a 7.0? why would you put a game rating like that for this kind of masterpiece? really!? 
 hehe i guess you just don't see it to be a cool game like others do huh? lol!
  
  but what the hell its a great game for all to try it out. thanks EA! you rock! LOL!
  
  i do 
 hope they are planing on making a sequel for this one though, man i just love playing games in 
 high places even more now that she can almost climb evrything like in assassin's creed does lol 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: emkone
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 17, 2009 3:10 am PT
Review:  This game feels like a missed opportunity. There is something new and cool about it the first 20 
 minutes in the way it plays, but soon it just starts looking like a game made for manga-obsessed 
 teenage girls.. sorry DICE. This is not a game for hardcore PC FPS players. It's basically all 
 happy colors, cool interior design, touchy-feely dialogues and story line, ethereal/depressive 
 music, and you mostly run and hide rather than fight. While there might be some fun in that, it 
 just becomes boring after you jumped the n-th building and ran through that next nicely decorated 
 office, with a bunch of soldiers shooting at your back. It's just unsustainable in keeping the 
 interest of anybody who has played FPS in the last 5 years.
  I admit it could have been a quite fun game if you were given proper weapons and targets to shoot 
 at in between the jumps. It would have ruined the whole ethereal concept, but it would have satisfied 
 us, bloodthirsty gamers.
  In terms if the hand-to-hand combat it tries to do, for example Dark Messiah Might and Magic was 
 10 times better. Overall there is nothing in this game that makes you want to play it, if you already 
 have a decent, recent FPS on your computer.
  With proper weapons this game would have been a 8.5 score at least. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snowyjoe
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 16, 2009 8:34 pm PT
Review:  Tomb Raider, Prince of Perisa, Assasins Creed, have lots of things in common. Pretty much the only 
 thing that isn't common is that, Tomb Raider is a girl, and she uses guns
  Prince of Perisa can stop and rewind time
  Assasins Creed, is acturally a sci-fi minigame. 
 
  
  But Mirrors Edge can stand out from all these games.
  Why?
  Because it's in First Person.
  
  Up till now, Platform Games have all been in 3D. Mostly because... 
 it's eaiser. It's easier to see the puzzles, how to go around solving them, and watch your little 
 charater do special moves to defeat your enemy. 
  
  Mirrors Edge, has done a great job at introducing the First Person Platfrom genre. 
  The puzzles 
 are set out wonderfully, most of it being infront of you, so you don't have to keep on turning 
 and spinning just so you can find that one ledge you have to jump to inorder to finnish the level.
 
  
  It's combat system is really unique, in most platform, and even First Persons Shooters don't have 
 this combat system.
  It's either, slow down the enemy, or run!
  When ever you enconter an enemy in other platfrom games, like Tomb Raider, you are mostly forced 
 to acturally kill them all by spinning around all over the place and shooting the enemy. 
  But in Mirror's Edge you are given the option to either fight... or run!
  Runing being the best 
 option most of the time. It's not wise to run into 5 police cops with guns aiming at you, so you 
 run. But if you see a cop by himself, you take him on, steal his gun, and knock him out good night. 
 
  
  This game is all about the flow of the city, and timing.
  
  As long as you don't screw up and press the wrong button, or jump on the wrong place, you can keep 
 on going. 
  For some people, it may feel a bit boring, just runnning around a city, but for people that love 
 platfrom games, and MGS type series, where killing the enemy isn't always the right choice, this 
 is the game for you.
  
  
  If you're still unsure, give the demo a try. It's sure to open you up to a bigger and better idea 
 of this great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ericscicluna
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 16, 2009 4:07 pm PT
Review:  WAITING FOR MIRROR'S EDGE 2 !!!
  
  This is one of the best games i ever played. I am a very restricted gamer and I only rate games 
 which meet my wonders. This is one of them with perfect physics and also perfect graphics. I can 
 say that finally EA Games have spent time on a good game. This is currently my favourite game in 
 the market.
  
  Mirror's edge IS A HIT, And will always be a CLASSIC.
  EA are the very first to produce such a PROFESSIONAL free running game on PC, after the mini game 
 called free running on "PSP" which was not that good.
  
  I think this game need a 9.5/10 game rating, and it's 9.5 not 10 because sometimes the physx mode 
 bugs up and the game freezes, a patch was released though.
  
  Hope you all play this game and rate it to the full... PLEASE EA GAMES CONTINUE THIS SERIES !! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sandrockcstm88
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 16, 2009 11:50 am PT
Review:  What people seem to have forgotten about video games is that in the old days, games were "gouge-your-eyes-out" 
 hard at times. To beat a game was to have accomplished something, and Mirror's Edge takes this 
 formula and packages it in an original, well executed free-running game. To call this a "platformer" 
 would be a misnomer, because you aren't jumping across platforms... you're jumping across buildings. 
 And climbing up them. And swinging over them. And occasionally running across their walls. In a 
 word: Free-running. And the thing about free running is that you never quite get it right the first 
 time. It takes some practice. And a lot of times people get frustrated by having to repeat something 
 a few (or at some parts of the game, several) times to get it right. I know I did. But that's the 
 point: when you finally get the puzzle down, it's a rush. That's what free-running is about.
  
  The upside of this game: the rush and exhilaration of pulling off a stunt/run correctly and 
 making it across what should be an impossible obstacle. No other game has really replicated this 
 feeling, especially from the first-person perspective. And that's what makes this game so strong.
 
  
  The downside: open fields. Whenever the game goes into the open, the game seems to stagger, because 
 it's not quite clear sometimes where you're supposed to go. The game starts off by making you think 
 it'll give you hints by tinting certain objects red, and it does. What it doesn't tell you is that 
 sometimes those objects are hard to see because they aren't immediately visible, or because they're 
 very small. Also, the combat near the end of the game gets, to be honest, a bit ridiculous. Especially 
 since this game isn't supposed to be a shooter but a free-runner game, and it doesn't even show 
 you smallest detail about your gun, like say, ammo. You point and shoot and before you know it 
 you're out of ammo. But near the end of the game the enemies get bigger guns... MUCH bigger guns. 
 And you can find yourself quickly outnumbered, outgunned, and outclassed as you fall down on the 
 floor dead for the umpteenth time in a row. Also, the story could have wrapped up a bit nicer with 
 more of a climax, but it suited the purpose of the game just fine.
  
  However, these downsides aside, this game is still worth playing. It may frustrate you to no end 
 sometimes, and you may have to take breaks just to calm down... but in the end you'll end up coming 
 back to it because when it comes down to it, it's still just too much fun to leave alone. Whether 
 you rent or buy, this is a game worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thesaintdogg
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 16, 2009 11:12 am PT
Review:  Wonderful Immersion. I wasn't sure if I should buy this game or not, was still a toss even after 
 all the screens and vids and such. But I gotta say, I am extremely pleased.
  
  FPS AC/POP with good physics. Acrobatics are always fun, and they did them well here. Would recommend 
 for almost anyone. It's a great game to immerse and flow with. Can use weapons, but they slow you 
 down and make you less agile. and it's perfectly fun to play without using the weapons. The trial 
 and error makes it good. I don't like starting at the beginning of a level, but I like being able 
 to try it different ways - even if I finished it once. It's fun.
  
  I have heard of people getting sick, but I've been fine. Was Freezing whenever a lot of glass broke 
 - with my 4870 on my 22" monitor and 42" kcd hdtv. Upped to the 2nd day patch 1.0.1 which was to 
 fix physx - but also disabled physx in the menu. not really noticing it, other than the fact that 
 the game doesn't freeze anymore - on 22 or 42. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bogdn
Rating: 2.5
Date: Jan 16, 2009 8:05 am PT
Review:  Good textures graphics but the gameplay booring and same missions end as a bad game and stupid 
 if you activate the physics the game the menu its not appearing and its stuck on a white screen 
 not responding this is because the game graphics settings are bad made . I uninnstaled when i see 
 this a bad game should be free for download not deserve to pay money for it . I tried to play this 
 game and like it but cant play more because its boring a weak game like red alert 3 undercover 
 and other from ea games. Graphics 8 Gameplay 2 those are the most important in a game a good visual 
 game but fail on gameplay side to bad . Its another bad game from ea like red alert ea is releasing 
 fast new titles but all the releases are bad on gameplay and booring games . Only bad games has 
 been released this year none is good all companies forget how to do a good game . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nuke_meltdown
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 15, 2009 8:28 pm PT
Review:  No COOP, no Multiplayer, one of the things most PC players want to see, cuz you gonna play these 
 games for months and having fun with friends while chatting. This game offer only a single player 
 mode but its really been a while since i saw a so immersive (single player) game like this one.
 
  
  The concept is so fresh i can't really describe it, its a some sort of manga, futuristic, disturb 
 society game.... The story is good, gameplay is good even with your mouse and keyboard.
  
  Its a well ported game, i'm not sure what platform its been design for (PC, PS3, XBOX360) at least 
 on PC it doesn't seems console optimized..... And if we're talking about PhysX, than WOW! The PHYSX 
 make it so immersive than you just wanna go further.
  
  That game worth a 10 for sure, DICE has made an awesome job...... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asafs16
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 15, 2009 2:16 pm PT
Review:  this is my review for MIRRORS EDGE game in PC version.
  so i have to say that the game is fantastic!! really one of the best games i ever played and i 
 played in alot of games in my life.
  
  the graphics is sharp, great, amazing visual effects, great lightning and shadows, the graphics 
 isnt realistic like other games, the graphics is a little bit cartoon with art design, but its 
 perfect!, no one can say that the graphics isnt good, its freaking awesome and add the game life.
 
  
  the sound effects and everything that belong to the sounds in this game is perfect, from music 
 to the effects, also great and add the game some life.
  
  gameplay.. here is the main problem that made me give this game 9.5 insted of 10, the gameplay 
 is amazing, fun, easy, it has a chellenge, and all of that is great but i think that if the game 
 had some more action he would be way better, sure you have some punches and kicks and guns but 
 in this game its not enough, most of the time you will only run from the police and thats all the 
 action you will get.
  
  let me finish this game by saying that even that there isnt much of action the game is still great 
 and worth playing i really think you should buy it or at least rent it if you can 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cathad
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 15, 2009 11:33 am PT
Review:  great game... nice graphics... very nice idea... but repetitive and to short (singleplayer, it has 
 not a multiplayer but who knows, online running competitions could be great)
  thow a forum review on a site compared it to assasins creed, I don't thing the game is the same 
 or comes near the level of assasins creed, it's more complex, more moves and let's say less borring 
 than assasins creed (thow the game it self has a great point to, worth playing)
  never the less I love the idea of a female main character, especialy when I can't see a 100 kg 
 men doing the same thing as FAITH who I think weights about 10 kg :) ) ....
  it's a must have and a must play, but it's not an addictive game... why I dunno mabye the same reason 
 as assasins creed, the same map layout only that u have a different mission to accoplish, same 
 moves... dunno... but still great games both mirror's edge and assasins creed 
::::::

::::::
UserName: juztrax
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 15, 2009 7:00 am PT
Review:  Nice game that is engaging and interesting to play. Surounded by a Sharp contrast of brilliant 
 whites and shades with the occasional touch of stark red color, you find a fast thilling game that 
 pushes you to think and react quickly to the changing landscape as you careen across a cityscape.
 
  It is interesting and captivating but also repetative but anyone who likes puzzles will find this 
 a thrilling game. Inovative in the First person perspective is enjoyable and entertaining. I find 
 the more realistic games are from this view point the better the feel one gets of being immersed 
 into the role. So a big thumbs up for bringing this a step closer.
  But is definately Oxymoron in a lot of area's. In being unique but familiar; visually exiting but 
 plain; thrilling but boring, repetative.
  To wrap up, I think it is an enjoyable, thrilling game with great visuals! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Night_hooligan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 14, 2009 11:28 am PT
Review:  Congratulations GameSpot. You did it again! Another bad review that adds to an endless list. Good 
 luck in the future tough.
  
  
  Mirror's Edge is a revolutionary product that has the courage to step into unknown territory knowing 
 that some people are not smart enough to understand what this game is about...
  
  As a Parkour-Freerunning performer I can tell you this game offers you a huge amount of possibilities 
 in the way you interact with the surroundings, just like Portal did in other ways a year before. Just 
 turn off the red hints and you will see what I mean.
  
  Graphics 10
  Sound 10
  Gameplay 9
  (the A. I. is sometimes weak, but this game is not about A. I.)
  Storyline 8
  Feeling 
 10
  
  By the way Gamespot, trial and error is for beginners that are too lazy to use their brains and 
 to dependent on experience. This game is not for you, go back to reviewing Crysys, Gears of War2 
 or Far Cry2. Enough said. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chimeray
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 14, 2009 4:33 am PT
Review:  How is Trial and Error a bad thing in a game?
  Geez, the gamespot review really... $%#!.
  Ninja gaiden anyone? That game was fun because it was SO hard.
  The first prince of persia's 
 were good agility games, the new one is way too easy. There's no real fun in climbing in Assassins 
 Creed as well. 
  And FINALLY when they make something good and hard with trial and error like Mirrors Edge it is 
 being bashed as a negative point?
  
  Make up your mind... I like the trial and error, who wants to play it through like a movie right? 
 It's a game... you play it.
  
  It's got its flaws alright, but it's still refreshing and enjoyable.
  I guess it's hard to review 
 a game like this, it's like most of these games lately, you get mixed feelings. You like one part, 
 you hate the other. There will be people that gonna keep this one close to their heart and some 
 will just wish they had only rented it.
  
  (btw I gave it a 'hard' difficulty rating, but for me this actually feels 'just right', see where 
 I'm going with this? Some games just work with a hard difficulty.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lukemaneiro
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 13, 2009 8:00 pm PT
Review:  Don't believe Gamespot. Mirror's Edge is a great game and an unique experience that should not 
 be missed. Did you ever think about Assassin's Creed rooftop jumping in first person ? Yeah, it's 
 something like that.
  
  The game overall really makes you feel like a runner. Controls are pretty good, and there are plenty 
 of different moves available. But this game requires practice to be played smoothly. Don't expect 
 to jump in the computer for the first time and start nailing those wall jumps. It can be a little 
 frustrating at first, but that's all a matter of skill. Once you get the hang of the game, it becomes 
 a lot more fun.
  
  The campaign lasts about 8 hours long. While it's a little bit short, the game contains a lot of 
 replayability. The multiplayer ... well, it's very limited. But you shouldn't really be expecting 
 this to be a multiplayer game (Though we all can imagine how awesome CAPTURE THE FLAG would be 
 in Mirror's Edge) .
  
  Graphics look really good, as the overall art design. But sometimes, you just feel like you've 
 been already to same places ... but now it's yellow. Or red. Or blue. The inside of buildings get 
 a little repetitive on visual terms, but when on rooftops, the game looks stunning. And PhysX is 
 a very nice feature as well.
  
  Combat is limited, there are very few moves you can perform. The AI is HORRIBLE, they will just 
 stand and shoot at you. No taking cover, no nothing . Maybe it's because Guards moving around and 
 taking cover would make the combat system a lot harder, but either way, AI was a total letdown. 
 But remember, not even close to ruin the experience of the game.
  
  Many of us gamers try to find something unique to play. And Mirror's Edge is just the perfect example 
 of it. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
