-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Missing: Since January
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/missing/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 30, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.1
Critic Score: 7.4, 24 Review (s)
User Score: 7.4, 160 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: The Adventure Company
Developer: Lexis Numerique
Genre: Adventure
Date:     Jun 25, 2004 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
If you fancy yourself a skilled Internet sleuth, Missing may prove to be an engrossing and unique 
 experience. 

  If Missing: Since January weren't chock-full of video clips detailing its story of an occult serial 
 killer, two stalwart investigators, and a decades-old murder, you could probably play the entirety 
 of this Macromedia Flash-style game in your Web browser. At its heart, Missing is composed of a 
 fairly lengthy series of puzzles and minigames -- some based on logic and some on manual dexterity -- that 
 will help you unravel the mystery of a vanished couple who have been trailing a depraved murderer 
 called the Phoenix. It's a decidedly unusual game, if nothing else.  

          Missing demands both puzzle-solving and Googling skills if you plan to discover Jack and 
 Karen's fate.     

  Like EA's late, serialized adventure game Majestic, Missing tries to involve you in its storyline 
 by interacting with you outside of the game proper, in the real world -- namely, by sending you hint-filled 
 e-mails from various characters and by requiring you to scour the Web for sites set up like a trail 
 of bread crumbs by the game's developer, Lexis Numrique. This gimmick sometimes walks the 
 line between being immersive and just hokey, but ultimately it does add a cohering element to what 
 would otherwise be a disjointed, if mostly entertaining, set of puzzles and minigames.  

  Let's back up for a second: Your role in Missing is as an investigator trying to crack a mysterious 
 CD-ROM sent to the employer of Jack Korski. Jack and Karen Gijman have been obsessively investigating 
 a murder that occurred in 1975, Jack because he stumbled upon an old film reel of the killing and 
 Karen because, well, her father was subsequently killed for filming it. This investigation leads 
 the pair to many exotic locales throughout Europe, and eventually they stumble into the clutches 
 of the Phoenix and are abducted. Once he's gotten his prey, the Phoenix's most sensible course 
 of action is apparently to craft an elaborate CD-ROM program full of puzzles that, once solved, 
 will reveal snippets of video that show Jack and Karen's investigation and will ultimately provide 
 the location of the Phoenix and his kidnapped couple. This is, of course, where you come in.  

 
  Missing is broken up into a series of sections that each contain several puzzles for you to solve. 
 After every one or two puzzles, you'll get a new video clip, as well as constant textual commentary 
 from the Phoenix. Finish the five sections in the game, which will take you a good number of hours 
 if you hunt down all the clues yourself (or naturally far fewer if you use an online walk-through) , 
 and you're treated to the slightly anticlimactic ending to the mystery, though the endgame does 
 have a couple of interesting twists. The game is pretty linear and almost nothing changes between 
 your first play-through and your hundredth, so there's not a lot of incentive to solve the case 
 more than once, but at least it's pretty entertaining while it lasts.  

  As mentioned, the puzzles and minigames form the heart of Missing's gameplay. There's a surprising 
 amount of variety and imagination in these, although they can be separated into just a few categories. 
 Many of them provide you with clues that you can essentially punch into an Internet search engine 
 in order to reveal one of the many Web sites associated with the game, which you can then plumb 
 for whatever keyword or number you need to progress. Other puzzles are based more on logic and 
 require you to interact with whatever objects or information are presented to you within the game 
 itself. Finally, there's a smattering of minigames spread throughout that simply test your skill 
 at precision control using the mouse or keyboard. The various puzzles are spread around evenly 
 enough that you're never doing too much of any one thing, which helps keep things moving smoothly. 

  Things will keep moving smoothly, that is, if you happen to be uncannily skilled at tracking down 
 the solutions to some of Missing's extremely esoteric puzzles via a Web search and with the occasional 
 e-mails that come from characters, whom you almost never meet in the game. Sometimes the information 
 you'll need can be found easily by simply searching for a key character's name on the Internet 
 and checking out the most relevant site that pops up. Often, however, the information you need 
 is hidden layers into a site and won't be obvious even when you reach the right page. It's fair 
 to say that many of the puzzles in Missing fall far onto the mentally taxing side. Thankfully, 
 the game has been out in Europe for some time now (under a different name: In Memoriam) and so 
 a wealth of walk-through information is available should you need help. On a side note, you may 
 want to disable e-mail spam filtering -- we ran into problems receiving the game's e-mails at an 
 address that uses aggressive spam-blocking software, but we had no trouble at all getting these 
 e-mails with a free Web mail account.  

          For the most part, Missing's video sequences are better-acted and produced than you'd probably 
 expect from this sort of game.     

  Missing is put together using software from Macromedia and also using Apple's QuickTime, so the 
 presentation and interface are on par with some of the best Flash games and sites you may have 
 seen on the Web. The graphics are strictly 2D, but some puzzles feature appealing and unique animation 
 techniques that add up to give the game a certain visual flair. The game is aesthetically dark 
 and sinister, with occult imagery and other disturbing elements scattered liberally throughout -- and 
 apparently, someone on the art staff is a big fan of  Se7en , since the styles are quite similar 
 between that film and this game. The live-action sequences are generally well done -- at least, much 
 more so than you'd expect if you've played a lot of past PC games with integrated video. For the 
 most part, the acting and narration are reasonably good, with only the occasional cheesy performance 
 or silly-looking murder victim to mar the presentation. There's not a wealth of music in the game, 
 but what  is  here does a good job of creating an ominous atmosphere.  

  If you fancy yourself a skilled Internet sleuth, Missing may prove to be an engrossing and unique 
 experience. It's a pretty short game with little replay value, but at only $20 and with its unique 
 use of e-mail and the Web, this could be a breath of fresh air to adventure fans dissatisfied with 
 a sadly stagnant genre. Admittedly, the game is definitely not for everyone, what with its simple 
 2D presentation and mind-bendingly difficult puzzles, but those dyed-in-the-wool gamers who are 
 into this sort of thing should find Missing: Since January original and rewarding.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (5 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Azghouls
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 23, 2007 3:18 am PT
Review:  Gameplay 8
  Graphics 6
  Sounds 7
  Value 7
  Tilt 8
  
  The Good
  * A different take of adventure gaming (e. g. reliance of the internet and emails as apposed to 
 'point-and-click')
  * Great acting, FMV and a well-written plot
  * A decent ending
  
  The Bad
  * Some puzzles are extremely vague and challenging
  * The reliance of 3rd party programs 
 can cause major issues
  * The game play style ages very quickly due the dynamic changes of the internet
  
  Adventure 
 games have gone through some substantial changes since the early days of PC gaming. From the legendary 
 saga of Zork to somewhat true 3D mega hit of Myst to the Longest Journey, each of these games proved 
 that adventure games, even though they're the 'poor cousins' of PC gaming, can still thrill many 
 players.
  
  The key element for any successful game is the development of the main character which for adventure 
 games it's a necessity. Loose this is like loosing the action in FPS or 'experience points' for 
 RPGs. The good news is that the vast majority of adventure games do have good character development 
 hence attracted me to this genre.
  
  Missing: Since January is an adventure game that provides a new innovative twist. Since most adventure 
 games are either 'point-and-click' or 'action', Missing: Since January is, in somewhat a 'point-and-click' 
 adventure however more on a 'personal' level. That said, the entire game play revolves around a 
 'publicised Black CD' produced by the famed serial killer 'The Phoenix' and distrubuted by SKL 
 Network in order to free two people, Jack Lorski (a journalist for SKL Networks) and Karen Gijman; 
 who are deemed kidnapped by The Phoenix himself. Your goal is to locate Jack and Karen hopefully 
 alive.
  
  To those who remember the 80s game 'Hacker', Missing Since January has a similar gaming style. 
 There are neither instructions nor rules as the entire game play is like an alternate reality. 
 Armed with the Black CD, the first screen you'll be viewing is from the agency asking for a real 
 email account as this plays an integral part of your investigation. Once submitted, from here on 
 in, it's a journey through the mind of a serial killer.
  
  The early parts of the game seems a little too monotonous. Viewing 'alternative-gothic' screens 
 with some lovely 'background' music trying to hunt for a password to unlock the next screen by 
 passing a series of tests. Once a password has been submitted, you either be rewarded a film clip 
 to narrate the demise of Jack and Karen or onto the next screen. Occasionally this breaks up and 
 instead of solving a puzzle you play a little macabre game instead (e. g. dragging a knife through 
 an intestine to cut the piece of string at the anus without touching its sides) . I imagine this 
 is to humour The Phoenix.
  
  Yet, as the game progresses and the emails starts to flood in, the profile of The Phoenix starts 
 to piece together like a jigsaw puzzle. This is where it's gets very interesting and because of 
 the well-written emails, websites and FMV, this grabbed my attention as to continue the game to 
 the very end. Speaking of which, the ending is one of the best I have encountered and actually 
 made sense!
  
  The puzzles themselves are a mixed-bag. Considering the game play is in the style of The Phoenix 
 'testing' the player (The Phoenix calls this the 'initiation' process) , you either get some really 
 easy puzzles or painfully hard. There is no in-between. To those who followed my Game spot profile 
 and noticed how long this game was in the 'now playing' list, will get the idea of how long I have 
 been playing this game. Some puzzles are so damn ambiguous that once I solved it, I need a couple 
 of days rest. However the good news is that if you are unable to solve a puzzle within a 'reasonable' 
 timeframe, your 'colleges' will email you for 'suggestions'.
  
  Since I have played this game four years after the release date, when searching on the internet 
 for that certain answer, you'll come across many, many walkthrough pages instead of the actual 
 'approved' page. Here I discovered, unwilling spoilers of the puzzle I tried to solve and changing 
 the 'Google' search options not to include 'walkthroughs' is at times not a good idea. This can 
 really spoil the fun of this game however it's neither the fault of the developers nor the creators 
 of the walkthrough. It's just the nature of the beast.
  
  The game does not have a build-in graphics engine. The entire setup relies on other 3rd party software. 
 The must-haves are Macromedia and QuickTime so you are in the mercy of these programs. Why I said 
 this is that there was a few times the game crashed as I'm unable to view the next puzzle. The 
 error was in relation to some 'projector' error. At first I thought it was my QuickTime however 
 upon investigations it was my graphics card (NVIDIA) that couldn't render the next screen. What 
 made matters worse was this projector was embedded on the game's exe file hence it's technically 
 'game over'. In desperation, I booted up my other PC which has an ATI card and luckily the game 
 purred. So players with NVIDIA cards you have been warned.
  
  There is not much to say about the sounds of this game. When the music actually plays, it's quite 
 pleasant to hear and will sooth the soul. A little hint as well, the background music can also 
 play as a clue to that very same puzzle. On the other hand, the actors are quite good and very 
 convincing. I'm not sure if they are professionals however it was nice to see that there were neither 
 college students nor wannabes.
  
  The entire game can last around less than an hour (if you cheat and not viewing any of the videos) 
 however, according to the developers, the target is around 10 - 20 hours of game play. As a matter 
 of interest, I think there's around 45 minutes of video footage. I clocked the game in about 16 
 hours and I'll be honest I'm no genius and proud to say knocked this game off without any assistance 
 (other than the accidental ones as mentioned above) .
  
  The overall software package is presented quite adequately. Even though there is very little instructions, 
 the entire game play is about self discovery. I was fortuanate enough to purchase the 'Game of 
 the Year' edition which includes the '13th victim' expansion pack and the 'making of'. You can 
 find this at a reasonable price through our good friends at eBay.
  
  Missing: Since January provides a refreshing new way of game play for a disappearing genre. I always 
 enjoyed a good adventure game as I enjoy a good novel. The main driving force for an adventure 
 game is in its story. Like a FPS shooter is for action, RPG is for 'experience points', adventure 
 games is about getting to know the main character. Considering I am some-what a veteran adventure 
 gamer I wouldn't recommend this game to any newcomers of this genre or the impatient ones. Some 
 of the puzzles can be incredibly challenging and off-putting at times however to those who have 
 patience, understand what adventure games are about and a little time to spare, give this a go. 
 For me, I wished I played this game back in 2003. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vinnie222
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 17, 2006 4:47 pm PT
Review:  When I first stumbled apon this game I was intruiged, a game where you are the actually using the 
 internet to solve the dissiperance of two people. THis game may come off alittle chezy when it 
 comes to some of the minigames but the acting is suprisingly good and the ambiance of the game 
 sends chills down your spine. The Adventure Co. went through a lot of trouble making the fake sites 
 that your searches bring you to. The sites make second guess the fictional story that is layed 
 down in the game, the sites include e-mail addresses and message boards that are convincing at 
 best. The site about the Collage girl feaked me out a little because of the reallisam. All in all 
 youll break mice and keyboards trying to figure out this game and if you are a smoker make sure 
 you have a carton to not have a break down while trying to figure out some of the painstaking clues. 
 
  
  P. S there are really no graphics in this game so the graphic section in my review will be bases 
 on visuial presentation (movies, pictures, ect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Guib
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 15, 2006 10:02 am PT
Review:  Missing is a unique game for puzzle lovers. I have to say I really enjoyed this one!
  
  First of all, the story is very well written and the production of the movie excerpts is quite 
 surprisingly good. The actors are very convincing and the way the story unfolds in front of the 
 player is way better than most "crime story dramatization" you can find on TLC or the Discovery 
 Channel. This does help a lot in motivating the player to unlock more and more movies and really 
 does a good job of involving the player in the game. Sometimes, you will have to watch some movies 
 again in order to find vital clues to a puzzle, as the movies, most of the time, retrace the steps 
 of the two individuals you are trying to find, Jack Lorski and Karen Gijman.
  
  Secondly, most of the puzzles are very clever and will have you search through the WWW for logical 
 clues, for example, having you find user names and passwords of characters involved in the story 
 in order to hack into their email server. You will also be receiving clues right into your inbox 
 from various characters, but they will come in just after you solved the puzzles in most cases...
 
  
  Also, the puzzles are very inspired, not repetitive at all and will keep you interested in solving 
 them throughout the whole game. Some critics about Missing will say that the puzzles are too esoterical 
 or something, but really, you shouldn't have to look at a walkthrough except maybe in two or three 
 cases where the website you are looking for will not come up in the first results on your search 
 motor.
  
  I played Missing with my girlfriend and tried to get her involved (she isn't into gaming) and she 
 just went straight for it. In order to appreciate this game, you just need to like detective stories 
 and puzzle solving. Anybody's who's into Sudoku or whatever logic games there can be will enjoy 
 Missing.
  
  I can't wait for the sequel (Evidence: The Last Ritual) which is coming out soon (but not soon 
 enough!) as it looks even more morbid than Missing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Muscler
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 14, 2005 9:34 pm PT
Review:  In my 26 years of gaming i have never seen such a marvelous, innovative new approach to gaming. 
 A sure winner! With great graphics (who can beat photo?) and real sounds i got totally lost in 
 the world. The ease of play and the length, or should i say the short period of time it took me 
 to learn made it all the better. The only down side i came acrose was the fact that it was all 
 puzle solving and hardly any action so after 12 hrs of playing it got pretty much redundant. Other 
 than that, i'm sure yu will not play 100+ hrs in a year on this one like me, a great game; i say 
 have fun with this one and every one should add it to their wish list is they have not done so 
 yet! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkSword1986
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 25, 2004 1:54 pm PT
Review:  Missing: Since January is a unique appraoch at the classic adventure genre. While most adventure 
 games have you pointing and clicking through detailed, pre-renderd backgrounds, Missing takes you 
 out of the game world and actually has you searching the net and reading e-mails for your clues. 
 While some people may see that as smiply a gimmick, it really immerses you in the game by mixing 
 it with real life.
  
  The basic premise is two people end up missing while investigating a murder and it's up to you 
 to find them. The CD that comes in the game box is actually a CD that the alleged kidnapper has 
 created, and you have the task of deciphering his number of arcane clues and abstract puzzles. 
 While some puzzles are a great deal easier than others, they're all unique in some sense and are 
 fairly creative. Once these puzzles are solved, the kidnapper will reward you with a short video 
 clip of the missing couple, giving you further insight into what may have happened.
  
  The graphics in Missing aren't anything spectacular but they fit with the game. Most of the visuals 
 are macabre, abstract images that usually realte to the puzzle you're on. The images really help 
 to portray the cryptic and mysterious atmosphere that the game relies so heavily on. Between these 
 puzzles, full motion video is used to show the two characters you're looking for. These videos 
 are often clear (except when intentionally distorted) and help move the story along nicely. Matching 
 the dark, mysterious visuals is the equally atmospheric music. While fairly simple it gives off 
 some creepy, uneasy vibes and helps keep the player immersed in this dark world crafted by the 
 strange kidnapper they're trying to find.
  
  While Missing won't appeal to everyone, fans of adventuers games should definately give it a try. 
 Fans of CSI, FBI Files, Cold Case, or similar shows might also enjoy this game since it is essentially 
 an investigation to solve a murder and a kidnapping. So if your looking for a unique adventure 
 game to add to your collection, go pick up Missing: Since January. It's a unique and fun game and 
 you can't go wring with its $19.99 price tag. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
