-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: MLB Front Office Manager
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sports/mlbfrontofficemanager/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Impressive depth for a console-centric sports management sim.
 Good presentation values.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Absolutely abysmal interface.
 Complete lack of personality when dealing with player transactions.
 AI managers regularly make bizarre decisions.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb  3, 2009
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4.5
Critic Score: 4.9, 3 Review (s)
User Score: 4.5, 35 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: 2K Sports
Developer: Blue Castle Games
Genre: Baseball Management
Date:     Jan 26, 2009
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
An obtuse interface makes MLB Front Office Manager bewildering even to baseball-sim veterans.

  Sports management simulations have finally hit the big time. After years of indie obscurity, at 
 least in North America, the genre has finally been hauled into the mainstream by EA Sports and 
 2K Sports. But don't schedule a parade just yet. EA's NFL Head Coach series has gone through some 
 growing pains over the past couple of years, and now 2K Sports' MLB Front Office Manager is off 
 to a shaky start. The biggest problem with this latest attempt at taking management sims to the 
 masses is a gamepad-oriented interface that makes even the most routine tasks about as irritating 
 as trying to throw a curve ball while wearing oven mitts. Clunky controls and a near-total lack 
 of feedback make it hard to feel like you're in control of anything, let alone a $150-million big-league 
 ballclub stocked with equally extravagant egos.  

           Everything looks good on the surface, but good luck digging into the nitty-gritty of the 
 player database.      

  The basic approach on display here, however, is time-tested. The game follows in the footsteps 
 of independently developed baseball management sims like Out of the Park Baseball and Baseball 
 Mogul by putting you in the shoes of a Major League general manager. You start off by naming your 
 virtual head honcho, selecting from a few face and clothing options (are you Joe Suit or Johnny 
 Polo Shirt?) , and picking a personal background that determines your skill at specific duties. 
 If you set yourself up as an ex-manager, for instance, teams on the field get a leadership boost. 
 If you take the low road and choose the legal profession, you receive a helping hand when it comes 
 to contract negotiations. As time goes by and you chalk up wins in the Majors, you gain experience 
 points that can be spent on bulking up other skills.  

  There is no option to work your way up to the Show from the minors, so following this brief character 
 creation you simply pick a Major League team and grab the reins. You have pretty much total control 
 over your club from this point on. Budgets, lineups, pitching rotations, allocation of scouting 
 dollars, trades, and so forth are all under your watch, although you can flip over to automatic 
 and let the CPU take care of the more mundane jobs. The team owner sets a player budget that serves 
 as a de facto salary cap, but beyond that you're free to do whatever you want. If you have a bad 
 run, though, you can find yourself bounced to the curb and awaiting job offers from other clubs. 
 Virtually all of the hardcore stuff serious baseball fans expect is present here, including the 
 Rule 5 draft, player arbitration, and bidding on Japanese prospects.  

  Careers can be played as straight single-player campaigns, as a fantasy variation that employs 
 a rotisserie-style scoring system, or in online leagues with up to 30 players. Just about nobody 
 seems to be playing the game online, however, and we couldn't scrounge up a single open league. 
 It's still only the start of February, but the lack of players isn't good news considering that 
 real pitchers and catchers are reporting to MLB training camps in just a couple of weeks. This 
 is also the first baseball game to hit stores in 2009, so you would expect a little more online 
 excitement around it.  

           One of the few things that MLB Front Office Manager has going for it is its good-looking 
 manager screen.      

  At any rate, the foundation of MLB Front Office Manager is solid. It looks very good, as well. 
 Because the game was designed with the Xbox 360 and PS3 in mind, the PC version has larger-than-necessary 
 menus that give the game something of a glitzy arcade sheen. Big, bold letters and numbers splashed 
 on the screen have a strong visual impact. This is a real plus in a genre where most of the competition 
 comes from indie developers and looks more like spreadsheet programs for the office than something 
 you would want to relax with at home. 2K Sports makes great use of its MLB license, loading the 
 game up with a wealth of player photos and an attractive manager's screen where you can watch the 
 action unfold on the diamond and make calls from the dugout.  

  Implementation is where everything falls apart. A good sports management sim needs to have a database 
 at its heart. This sounds like a dreadfully dull way to present a game, but it is an absolute necessity 
 in this genre since you need to be able to easily sift through stats and sort players by the numbers. 
 Yet here you're working with screens almost entirely taken up by visual chrome and player photos, 
 save for a relatively small area filled with a couple of columns of players and the barest minimum 
 of stats. Player lists are abbreviated so that you can see only eight names on the screen at once, 
 forcing you to tediously scroll through multiple menus. Information is presented in an almost nonsensical 
 manner. The player negotiation screen, for instance, covers just six core stats for batters and 
 pitchers, like AVG and W-L. So you're forced to go rummaging around elsewhere in the rosters to 
 dig up thorough information regarding essential data, like at-bats and hits allowed.     

  Vital data, such as overall player ratings and potential ratings, is often tucked away in layered 
 information screens, necessitating a ridiculous amount of searching whenever you take on even the 
 most rudimentary task. It's tough just gathering the information needed when setting up pitching 
 rotations. And it gets even worse when it's time to sort through the dozens of players who need 
 the protection of a 40-man roster prior to the Rule 5 draft every winter. The menu screens aren't 
 linked to one another either, meaning that you can't zip from one screen to another. When you're 
 trying to re-sign a player, for instance, and he tells you he wants more years on his contract, 
 you can't move directly from the e-mail telling you about this demand to his negotiation screen. 
 Instead, you have to scroll down the main menu to Transactions, open its submenu list, scroll down 
 to Payroll, open it up, and then scroll down that list to the player's name to pull up his contract 
 offer page. It's the same deal with CPU-offered trades. They are a bit more user-friendly in that 
 you at least have the ability to instantly go to a comparison screen where you can check out the 
 players on the block. But leaving this screen strands you back at the main menu, and you have to 
 access your e-mail again to accept or reject the deal (which, incidentally, cannot be altered) . 
 Even the simplest roster-management tasks require five or six steps when they should necessitate 
 just one. You spend more time chasing your tail than making baseball decisions.  

           What, again?!      

  A lack of feedback makes MLB Front Office Manager even more confusing. 
 Although you have Oakland A's GM Billy Beane on tap providing tips about contracts, along with 
 memos that keep important dates on the top of the screen so you don't forget about something like 
 the arbitration, much of what you do takes place in a vacuum. This is a particularly huge problem 
 when it comes to handling players. While you're kept well informed about looming deadlines, offers 
 to free agents, to pending free agents, and to other teams during trade talks are dealt with through 
 pretty much absolute silence. There is no back and forth with player agents or rival GMs, or any 
 chance to counter an offer from another team. All you get is a flat acceptance or denial with an 
 occasional personal observation, such as that the money being offered is "laughable."  

  Signings aren't even properly noted in the e-mail screen that covers all league communications. 
 You would think that losing Manny Ramirez to free agency would be enough of a big deal to the Dodgers 
 to warrant more than an e-mail buried among all the other league news of the day. A successful 
 signing never gets much press, either. If you ink somebody like K-Rod, you don't even receive so 
 much as a cheesy "I'm looking forward to playing for you this year!" blurb. The only indications 
 that your bid has been accepted are a one-line e-mail, maybe a follow-up note saying that the fans 
 are excited, and notice that the player in question has been added to the Pending Transactions 
 list and must be assigned within 10 days or released.  

           Most other sports sims would let you click through on all of these players to access their 
 main stat screens.      

  Finally, some of the decisions made by computer GMs are beyond bizarre. Every team in the game 
 seems to be working under the same management philosophy. Each offseason, everybody appears to 
 go after the same big-name free agents no matter what sort of budgetary restrictions they may be 
 operating under. So this leads to ridiculous scenarios where poorer clubs like the Kansas City 
 Royals waste $16 million a year on a washout like Jason Giambi, or the Cincinnati Reds dish off 
 $21 million a year on Mark Teixeira. Sometimes these single big-name signings fill up nearly a 
 third of a team's overall payroll. Team budgets are also all over the place. The LA Dodgers start 
 off with a budget of $111.6 million, while the cheapskate Toronto Blue Jays begin 2009 with a whopping 
 $139.2 million. Somebody either hasn't checked the lowly value of the Canadian dollar lately or 
 has a hate on for Dodger blue. Some trades come from the dark side of the moon. While most are 
 nondescript affairs shuffling minor leaguers around, the game hits you with a Bizarro World blockbuster 
 on a regular basis, like when the Red Sox trade away Jonathan Papelbon during spring training for 
 some guy named Nate McLouth. There may be some kind of bug in the game with Papelbon though, since 
 the Sox seem to ditch him for a lower-rated nobody in the first spring training every time you 
 start a career.  

  MLB Front Office Manager needs a lot of work to be ready for the big leagues. The game offers an 
 impressive amount of depth and great support for online leagues, especially for management-sim-deprived 
 consolers. But playing it is such a chore that anyone seriously interested in such simulations 
 will quickly move on to a more serious, if PC-only, effort like Out of the Park Baseball.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (3 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Prather32
Rating: 3.5
Date: Mar 15, 2009 10:11 am PT
Review:  This was a game I was waiting to play. I'm still waiting to play the game that was advertised because 
 what I got was nothing more than waste of effort and time. 
  Can't use custom rosters, glitchy graphics (yes, drivers all updated) , slow loads, and a lack of 
 real content make this game nothing more than something to remove to free up space. 
  There is no real 'negotiation' for contracts, minor league rosters are generic, and if you start 
 to lose everything on your team goes to heck in a hand basket.
  In the off-season you can attempt sign / trade / re-sign people based on their current rating, 
 and then once spring comes around all the ratings can change very dramatically, but I guess your 
 talent appraisers and scouts are all too stupid to notice or let you know. 
  I'm not so sure that most major leagues have accurate contracts either.
  
  Don't bother buy 
 this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Silverbullet
Rating: 4
Date: Feb 4, 2009 10:14 am PT
Review:  The GameSpot reviewer is absolutely right on, in his assessment of this game.
  Every statement is absolutely correct.
  He actually played this game, which does not appear to 
 be the case of the programmers or the Beta test team if there was any.
  With every thing that is wrong here 2k should have never released the game in this condition.
 
  The hype and expectations for this game for true sim fans was that this would be OOTP, Baseball 
 Mogul, Pure Sim, and MVP Baseball all rolled into one great Baseball Simulation.
  We were all terribly disappointed. 
  I have played every Baseball sim since Earl Weaver. I put 
 up to 100 hours in on this one, and it is unplayable. 2K should look at OOTP, and the other above 
 mentioned Baseball sims, and work on patches to fix this fiasco. This could be a great game if 
 and when it is repaired.
  But it should be done on this version and not on next years. Because I for one will not bother 
 to even look at a future version if this one is not fixed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bimper
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 29, 2009 7:35 am PT
Review:  I always wondered why Baseball sims and arcade sims could not merge. In other words, have the results 
 of real statisical games like Stat-o-matic, Baseball Mogul, OOTP, actually show the outcome with 
 real graphical deisplay to make the game more fun.
  
  Well, MLB: Font Office Manager tries to accomplish this. I say try because the interface is just 
 so cumbersome that it makes the process of Managing a ML franchise so utterly tedious that it really 
 removes any real fun factor.
  
  You can play a career mode, on-line, or a Fantasy league. I have only tried the career mode thus 
 far.
  
  You can play the games and manage most decisions on the field and the graphics are pretty good. 
 This has been a missking link in this type of game.
  
  It is challenging and deep but really misses the mark with an interface that was designed for consoles.
 
  
  
  
  A real shame. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
