-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Mobile Forces
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/mobileforces/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep  3, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.3
Critic Score: 6.7, 13 Review (s)
User Score: 7.8, 94 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Majesco Games
Developer: Rage Software
Genre: Car Combat
Date:     Aug 16, 2002 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The vehicles work well, they're fun to drive, and they end up overshadowing the game's weapon balancing 
 issues. 

 Pretty much everyone agrees that adding drivable vehicles to the on-foot gameplay of a traditional 
 shooter is a cool idea. But other than a few attempts -- the initially buggy and relatively little-known 
 Codename: Eagle being the most notable -- not many developers have tried it, much less pulled it 
 off. Mobile Forces is the most recent of these rare attempts to meaningfully integrate vehicles 
 and pedestrians. Though it could have used some more polishing, balancing, and improved network 
 code, it generally succeeds on its own terms and is arguably one of the most successful games of 
 this type to date.           The game's weapons aren't terribly original.    

  The game's handheld weapons aren't especially original. There's a pistol, a shotgun, a machine 
 gun, a sniper rifle, grenades, trip mines, rocket launchers, and a slightly exotic mounted Gatling 
 gun. These are all secondary to Mobile Forces' real draw, its four vehicles. The dune buggy is 
 fast and lightly armored, and it includes a driver position and a rear-mounted platform for a single 
 gunner. Slightly slower but more resistant to damage, the Humvee can fit a driver and a passenger 
 in the cab and has two gunner nests mounted on top. The troop transport features driver and passenger 
 positions, plus room for four people in back. Finally, the armored car is slow and tough and can 
 fit only a driver and one gunner.   

  Mobile Forces has a number of different game types: deathmatch, team deathmatch, a version of team 
 deathmatch in which you only score points for killing the opposing team's captain, capture and 
 hold, and four capture-the-flag variants. Notably absent is any sort of combat racing mode, though 
 Mobile Forces' best game type, a capture-the-flag variant called "trailer," almost makes up for 
 that. In trailer, a giant bomb sitting in the eponymous trailer is attached to a Humvee parked 
 somewhere on the level. To score, either team must capture the Humvee and then drive it into the 
 opposing team's base. It's the only game mode in which the goal is specifically vehicle-based, 
 and it sets up some wild chases as one convoy of armed vehicles protects the captured trailer while 
 another group attempts to stop it.   

  Each of the game's 11 levels supports all eight game types. For the most part, the levels are huge. 
 They all tend to follow a similar design theme: two bases and a central hub area connected by a 
 long, twisty landscape designed to be navigated by vehicles, plus a shorter path that cuts across 
 the folds but can only be traversed on foot. Mobile Forces uses the Unreal Tournament-era Unreal 
 engine, and, despite the large size of the environments, the texture work is surprisingly detailed. 
 The levels take place in a wide variety of unrelated but nicely rendered settings. An urban ghetto, 
 a polar outpost with an ice-bound submarine in the middle, and a pair of violently opposed logging 
 camps are the standouts. The weapon models, on the other hand, are uniformly awful. The car models 
 are fine, but unfortunately, the damage modeling on them isn't. Black smoke is the only real indication 
 that a vehicle is taking damage. It's a glaring omission in a game that relies so heavily on the 
 thrill of smashing cars into each other.   

  Damage modeling aside, Mobile Forces' vehicles have a lot of nice touches. The unrealistic, arcadelike 
 feel of the physics engine complements the fast-paced nature of the game. The cars feature independent 
 suspension, and a well-placed shot can take out an individual tire, causing the vehicle to spin 
 out. If a car is moving slowly enough, you can hop into the passenger seat and shoot the driver. 
 You can even destroy a vehicle in one shot if you hit its gas cap using the sniper rifle. But that's 
 not likely to happen, because the game's weapons are so unbalanced that you'll probably never even 
 carry a sniper rifle. The only really viable weapon is the rocket launcher. It does splash damage, 
 can home in on a target, and even features a sniper scope in secondary fire mode. It's the only 
 effective weapon against vehicles, and it works well on soft targets too. Since there's no suicide 
 key and since the goal of several of the CTF modes (including trailer) is to penetrate the enemy's 
 base, the rocket launcher is also the best way to kill yourself if you get stuck out in the middle 
 of nowhere without a ride while an opponent drives toward your base -- which conveniently also happens 
 to be your respawn spot.           But driving around in Mobile Forces' vehicles is actually pretty 
 fun.    

  Mobile Forces' single-player game is just a series of bot matches. The bot AI is pretty good, however. 
 The bots know how to drive and ride in vehicles, and rather than simply getting more accurate, 
 they actually appear to make more intelligent choices at higher levels. Still, they have some exploitable 
 gaps in their behavior, such as not realizing that they shouldn't walk through trip mines. They 
 also don't understand that they shouldn't take any weapon other than the rocket launcher, which 
 means you'll end up with half-useless teammates carrying Gatling guns and sniper rifles. The bot 
 matches are challenging, but not for very long.   

  If you can find a decent server, a stable connection, and enough people to play with, multiplayer 
 is where Mobile Forces shines. There's a built-in server browser, but there aren't many servers 
 to browse at this point. It's always tough to predict whether a game will catch on or not, but 
 in this case there's at least one good indicator: After being out in Europe for over a month, there 
 still aren't more than 10 or 15 active servers on average, and these are generally empty. It's 
 also difficult to accurately judge the game's network code with such a limited sampling of servers, 
 but so far it's been pretty spotty, even on servers that show a low ping.   

  Whether it ever attracts an audience, Mobile Forces is solid and unique enough to deserve one. 
 The vehicles work well, they're fun to drive, and they end up overshadowing the game's weapon-balancing 
 issues. It's very similar to the popular Rocket Arena modification for Quake, but with cars. A 
 good round of trailer is the closest that any game has come to re-creating the final chase scene 
 of  The Road Warrior .    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (5 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Master_Cheif82
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 14, 2006 12:30 am PT
Review:  Mobile forces is an exelent game, i enjoyed it alot, the thing i enjoy most about this game is 
 the bots are fairly challenging the veichles are well balanced and the weapon selection is fair. 
 When i first played Mobile Forces it was at my dad's house at christmas 2004, i liked it so much 
 i asked if i could have it for christmas, luckily he said yes. Even though there were so much more 
 better games out at that time Such as Far Cry i still wanted this one. my friend had played it 
 and told me that the game was great although there arent many australian servers that don't lag. 
 so i made up my mind and got it. i don't regret asking for iteven though i could have probably 
 gotten a better game for that christmas. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tojwonkle
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 13, 2006 3:56 pm PT
Review:  I find mobile forces very fun to play. The maps stand out as very well designed and the vehicles 
 are great fun to drive. The use of the unreal engine ensures that the physics are good and the 
 AI is exceptional. There are a few reasons why I only awarded it a 7.1 though. The first thing 
 that annoys me is the weapons. They're quite crude and unrealistic and don't feel as satisfying 
 as they could. The most useful weapon is the M4 style assault rifle which seems to have some weird 
 blob on it as its owner's hand. I also get really annoyed with the bots' voices. Their twangy american 
 taunts are really corny and make the game seem a bit cheesy. Although the AI is very good in the 
 game, the maps all seem to have the same problem with the bots. The route pathed out for them to 
 take the enemy flag is exactly the same in either direction. This would not be a problem with a 
 normal fps, but with vehicles this means that bots driving in opposite directions look like they 
 drive over each other when they meet. All of these problems don't matter too much really though 
 as the maps and vehicles are excellent and the game is still so much fun to play. A really nice 
 touch is that if you hit a vehicle's fuel cap with a sniper rifle round it instantly blows up. 
 Awesome! Mobile Forces would be an outstanding game to play online but whenever I've tried there 
 haven't been any servers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Griff767
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 19, 2006 7:58 pm PT
Review:  Mobile forces is really fun. The mp isnt the greatest but the sp is fun. The vehicles are funs 
 to drive around with. The modes are fun CTF and demolition and just plain out team deathmatch. 
 Theres slight customization but it doesnt matter that much. Weapons are fun to shoot and the guns 
 are pretty cool. Very great lan game if you know anyone that owns this great game. I gave mobile 
 forces a mobile force of 8.9 soldiers! But wait dont buy it if you want a half life 2 graphics 
 game. The graphics are normal for a game thats pretty old.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: odd_bloke
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 12, 2006 6:42 am PT
Review:  I'm not claiming that this game can live up to any of the newer FPS game, but it is still as fun 
 as the day it was released. The game plays smoothly and while the graphics are very dated by now, 
 at least it means that it's playable on just about any computer out there. The sound is convincing, 
 though nothing special. There are enough different levels of gameplay that it can cater to just 
 about any level of gamer. The multiplayer options are varied, the different modes available being 
 one of the strengths of the game.
  
  I enjoyed it a lot (and it is still played regularly) , and it's old enough that you can pick it 
 up cheaply when you can find it. It is certainly worth the 5 it will cost you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonbob_05
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 3, 2005 11:23 am PT
Review:  This game should be brought for those who enjoy multiplayer, it is the only reason for actually 
 buying the game, mainly because there is no sotory in the single player. there are differnet game 
 types to play with all the basics like capture the flag and deathmatch. the guns are o. k but there 
 arent too many. Graphics are good considering when it was first released. Mobile forces offers explosive 
 vechile combat combined with traditional first person action. the Ai is also pretty good, the enemys 
 and your teamates, and in the vechiles you dont have to drive, you can just ride shotgun, blasting 
 that mutha f***ers to death! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
