-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Mobil 1 Rally Championship
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/driving/mobil1rallychampionship/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb 28, 2000
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.9
Critic Score: 8.5, 15 Review (s)
User Score: 8.6, 136 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Electronic Arts
Developer: Magnetic Fields
Genre: Rally / Offroad Racing
Date:     Jan 31, 2000 &raquo;  
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Mobil 1 Rally Championship puts you as close to the action as you could ever hope to get. 

 So you've finally clambered up the near-vertical learning curve of Grand Prix Legends, and you've 
 moved to the head of the pack in NASCAR Racing 3. You've even found time to master the bump-and-grind 
 action of touring-car racing in TOCA 2. Feeling pretty proud of your racing-sim expertise? Well 
 don't get cocky just yet, because Mobil 1 Rally Championship takes all the skills you've mastered 
 for those games and tosses a bunch of them right out the window. Mobil 1 Rally Championship is 
 minimalist, simple, and brutally challenging. Rally racing is quite possibly the most complete 
 test of driving skills ever devised - and Mobil 1 Rally Championship puts you as close to the action 
 as you could ever hope to get. Once you become accustomed to some of the game's quirky control 
 issues, you'll find yourself drawn to it time and time again.  

 In real-life British rallying, each rally championship (of which there are several in addition to 
 the one simulated in Mobil 1) comprises a series of individual rallies. A single rally consists 
 of a course divided into several stages, some of which have service areas where damage that a car's 
 taken can be repaired. But these stations aren't like pit stops in a Formula 1 or NASCAR race, 
 where a pit crew's sheer speed can give the driver an advantage; instead, each car is allotted 
 the same amount of time to fix everything that's been damaged over the previous stage or two.  
 

 As such, strategy plays a pivotal role: You may have four, five, or more items in need of repair 
 but only enough time allotted to work on only two or three, so your decisions at a service area 
 can have a drastic effect on whether you'll finish the next stage, not to mention the rest of the 
 race. And when you see the types of roads that make up the 36 stages of the Mobil 1 British Rally 
 Championship - imagine the back roads you'd expect a Tennessee moonshiner to use in trying get 
 his weekly load to Knoxville, then add rain, snow, and ice - you'll get a real appreciation for 
 just how much damage your car is liable to take.  

 The slate of cars in Mobile 1 Rally Championship is both accurate and exhaustive. Not counting the 
 "secret cars" promised in the latest patch, you'll find more than 20 autos divided into four classes 
 based on engine size, and all of the cars have taken part in various British Rallies. Cars from 
 Ford, Nissan, Honda, Skoda, Peugeot, Citro&amp; euml; n, Renault, Proton, Vauxhall, Hyundai, VW, 
 Mitsubishi, Seat, and Subaru are available, though the cream of the crop, the 4WD vehicles, can't 
 be accessed until you win the Mobil 1 Championship and move on to the A8 series.  

 Because rally cars are all basically production cars souped up for rallying, you won't find the 
 sort of mind-numbing array of setup options in the game as you would in sims like NASCAR Racing 
 3 or Grand Prix Legends. In Mobil 1, you have a choice of tire types, suspension height and stiffness, 
 rudimentary gear differential settings, transmissions (auto, semiauto, and manual) , brake balance, 
 and steering sensitivity. Although it might take a few races for you to fully appreciate the differences 
 between the handling and performance of vehicles in the same class, rest assured that these vehicles 
 do indeed have distinct characteristics. I shaved nearly a full minute off my time on the rugged 
 first stage at Vauxhall just by switching from a Nissan Almera to a Renault Megane.  

 While the game's handful of setup options might leave some motorheads aching for more to do before 
 hitting the course, the truth is that such micro-tinkering isn't part of the real deal. And the 
 adjustments in all the available categories do have a forceful impact on how your car responds, 
 even though you might not realize it at first as you bounce down a rocky gully frantically trying 
 to stay as close to the middle of the path as possible. Many roads are bounded by banks, which 
 are essentially launching ramps for drivers unlucky enough to hit them at high speeds, and by a 
 slew of hairpin curves, 90-degree turns, and wicked chicanes. And obstacles, like the hay bales 
 and logs that litter the road, make things even more difficult. Thankfully, the game's damage model 
 is toned down a bit from what you'd expect in real life, so slamming sideways into a pine at 60mph 
 doesn't automatically result in a DNF; in fact, you'll have to beat up your car really badly before 
 it'll finally give up the ghost. But you won't notice such details right away because you'll be 
 too busy pinching yourself to make sure you aren't dreaming once you get an eyeful of the brilliant 
 terrain and scenery that developer Magnetic Fields created for the game. Some of the forests farther 
 from the track are rendered in 2D, but the trees near the course are actual 3D models, complete 
 with limbs hanging low enough for your car to brush against as you careen down the road. It's true 
 that the spectators along the track are rather few in number, quite unlike the rallies I've seen 
 on Speedvision where bystanders line entire stretches of each stage.  

 Still, your eyes will bug out when you see the photo-realistic quality of everything from the dirt 
 and rocks to the fences, boulders, sheep, cattle, grass, clouds, and mountains. You name it, and 
 it's probably on one of these courses. What qualifies as photo-realistic may be subject to change 
 over the years, but until further notice, the terrain, the scenery, and the car graphics in Mobil 
 1 Rally Championship come closer to reality than those in any other driving game.  

 Although the heart and soul of Mobil 1 is the championship mode, which consists of all six rallies 
 in the Mobil 1 Championship, you can also race on a single stage, advance through an arcade mode, 
 and run time trials on single stages. Unfortunately, the arcade and single-rally modes offer little 
 in the way of interest or excitement. You'd think the single-rally mode would be a great way to 
 practice an entire rally before signing up for the season, but the lack of car setup options means 
 that about all it's good for is memorizing the pretzel-like courses that make up each stage. You 
 can memorize them just as easily in the time-trial mode, where you also have the advantage of being 
 able to set up your car the way you like it.  

 Then there's the arcade mode, which at first seems to be a good way to relax from the rigors of 
 the championship mode, but actually falls short of delivering any sort of enjoyment. It's the only 
 mode where other cars are on the track, which could have made for some nice bumping and tapping 
 to gain an advantage, and also for a fun multiplayer game. Too bad that a multiplayer option isn't 
 even available for the arcade mode, probably because the game's frame rate drops by nearly 50 percent 
 compared with the relatively smooth animation of the other modes, where you're the only vehicle 
 on the road.  

 Mobil 1 has a few other problems. The game has fairly steep system requirements and awkward default 
 controls. In addition, more than a few racing-sim fans have complained that the physics and handling 
 in Mobil 1 are flawed, and after my first few wretched runs, I felt the same way. Yet by adjusting 
 the steering sensitivity and setting up the dead zones to accommodate my driving style, I soon 
 found myself logging respectable if not great times. Even if you still don't like the handling 
 after a lot of practice, you can opt to create a configuration file that affects all sorts of things, 
 such as gravity, the "stickiness" of gravel, tarmac, grass, braking distances, and so forth. With 
 just a little work, I not only wound up making the driving seem a bit more realistic but also a 
 lot more fun.  

 Mobil 1 has options for multiplayer support over Mplayer and HEAT. net. Although you never race directly 
 against opponents in rallies, it'd still be a blast if there were an option to start a rally that 
 competing drivers could join all day long. But until such a matchmaking service is created, the 
 rabid fan base that the game will surely garner will certainly come up with its own multiplayer 
 events. Make no mistake: If you're into racing sims and have the patience to get used to this wild 
 motorsport, then you can't do any better than Mobil 1 Rally Championship.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: KaotixGTX
Rating: 2.1
Date: Apr 29, 2007 12:37 pm PT
Review:  Finding this game at a flea market wasn't such a plus. When I got it home, it seemed like an okay 
 Rally game. After playing it, getting incredibly frustrated with it, uninstalling, replaying and 
 finally destroying the cd, I can safely say: This has got to be the worst game I have ever had 
 the misfortune of playing.
  
  The gameplay starts out with you believing it's a rally arcade game. Once you figure out the moves, 
 and possibly read the update FAQs, you find out this is more of a sim game. Actually it's a sim-game-wanna-be. 
 The game is so bugged with problems that you can't even believe that it's YOU driving that terribly. 
 From the start of your first race you most likely jump the gun and have to restart the clock with 
 +10 seconds. You have complete control of your car and you can go wherever you want to in the arcade 
 mode. Problem with that is there's nothing interesting. The levels are too bland and boring even 
 for the era in which this game came out in. And the night levels are so dark that you can only 
 see with your headlights, and not far for that matter. The physics are just screwed to hell and 
 back. In the update FAQ it addresses this problem and says how people can fix it. Well if they 
 fixed it, the game becomes TOO easy and even less interesting. You COULD choose your tire types 
 for each race, but what does it matter? You can only finish the race and probably only stay on 
 the road 80% of the time. The rest is just hard lefts and rights that appear out of nowhere. AND 
 WHERE IS MY PIT STOP? Why can't I fix my car? It's breaking down in the middle of the first race 
 and I suddenly have 3 stages left until I can pit?
  I didn't even wreck this much in the Colin McRae series! I DON'T EVEN WRECK THIS MUCH IN THE FLATOUT 
 SERIES!! I DON'T WRECK THIS MUCH PLAYING TWISTED METAL!!!
  in fact, wrecking the car just might be the only good thing about this game. You can hit 90 easy 
 and flip over a small bump just as easily. When you hit a rock or a tree going only 10, you suddenly 
 veer toward that object and get stuck. The stages can take up to 10 minutes to complete. My attention 
 span can't last that long. That's almost 10 minutes of wrecking, getting straight, and wrecking 
 again. This isn't rally racing. This is destruction derby on the backroads of England.
  
  The graphics are possibly the ONLY reason this game might stay afloat. But alas, it doesn't. The 
 cars fall apart so often that it's impossible to believe they were even held together in the first 
 place. The levels, as I mentioned before, are so bland that you don't even care where you're racing 
 after the third time you race. It's all in England or in Ireland or some European country. It just 
 feels like you're in the same stage over and over again.
  
  I haven't even bothered to play with the sound on. I never have. I just turned on the music and 
 listened to it. I can figure out the hard lefts and hard rights by myself. Problem is: this game 
 interferes with Windows Media Player. While playing it, I suffered from so much music and game 
 lag and times that I just thought about shutting Media Player down. I even changed the processing 
 of the game down from High to Normal. AND IT STILL LAGGED.
  
  To quote the famous Video Game Nerd: This game sucks monkey f**k. 
  The last dealings I'm ever 
 going to have with this game is destroying it.
  After playing it just 20 minutes ago, I promptly ejected it out of anger to play something else. 
 It kept giving me a warning message Insert game disc. So I did. It just kept spinning the disc. 
 It lagged my computer so I just threw the disc out the door, along with the case. Shut down my 
 computer and restarted. Time to uninstall this thing. Guess what? Need the CD. Go outside, get 
 the contents and insert the disc. Spinning and spinning and spinning. Nothing. Eventually the uninstall 
 came up: Uninstall everything. Proceeding.
  THE UNINSTALL SHUTS DOWN ON ME. I manually delete everything, scratch the disc until it's unrecognizable 
 and throw it away. It's no longer in my collection, thank God. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ajCham
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 6, 2006 2:37 am PT
Review:  It's unusual to see any sports or racing title that doesn't become stale very quickly. When you 
 buy a racer, you can expect that it will be obsolete, surpassed by competitive titles (or it's 
 own sequel) , within as little as a few months.
  
  So imagine my surprise when I find this little beauty sitting in the game store - for a bargain 
 price. This is a breath of fresh air and no rally game I've played is quite like it.
  
  Mobil1 is the fifth in the Rally Championship series of games, developed by Magnetic Fields. It 
 accurately recreates the six rallies of the British Rally Championship. You begin with a choice 
 of 16 cars (in three classifications) , and are rewarded with a further six (in the fourth class) 
 upon winning the Championship.
  
  But it's not that easy. The game is not designed with the Arcade racer in mind. Unlike the McRae 
 games, you'll not be drifting gracefully around the hairpins within five minutes. Give it time, 
 and a little effort, however, and you'll soon have worked up to an awkward slide around a 3 right!
 
  
  As you may have guessed the handling is a little rough. But that is such a good thing! Handling 
 a real rally car IS rough. A fact often overlooked in this kind of game. As a result the game holds 
 your concentration better than any I've known. You won't (or rather, daren't) take your eyes off 
 the screen for the duration of the stage, which can last anywhere from six to about 40 minutes.
 
  
  As well as competing in the Championship, M1RC also offers you a time trial mode, single rally 
 mode or Arcade. It can also be played by multiple players, either split screen, sequentially or 
 over a network.
  
  Arcade mode, as it happens, was a little disappointing. Simply put it involves the same six rallies 
 as simulation mode, except the stages are raced back-to-front. In typical arcade fashion you have 
 myriad opponents to overtake (very difficult on the narrow courses) and a countdown which extends 
 at each checkpoint. Although I loved this game for it's sim element, if the designers wanted to 
 include an arcade version, it should at least play a little differently. For example: shorter stages, 
 wider courses (to facilitate overtaking) and maybe simplified handling.
  
  After the race is over, M1RC has a pretty nifty replay feature. Not only can you watch your race 
 from a large variety of camera angles, but you can also edit the footage - slow motion, action 
 replays, or you could just cut out the boring bits to create a film of your rally's highlights.
 
  
  Another thing I loved about this game is the ability to customise. Although not strictly part of 
 the game, a little digging through the game's folders and you'll find numerous files that you can 
 edit, be they graphics, sounds or text files. It takes a little patience, and some decent software, 
 but edit a few texture files and, voila! Custom paint jobs on your rally car! (Done this.) If you 
 were feeling adventurous, you could even record your own co-driver! (This I haven't done.)
  
  Well now to the nitty-gritty.
  
  GAMEPLAY: As already established the gameplay is top notch. 
 In spite of not having a decent arcade mode, this has all you need for a great sim.
  
  GRAPHICS: As should be expected the graphics have aged somewhat. However taking into account when 
 the game was released, and the fact that this is one of the best looking games I've had running 
 smoothly on my old laptop, the game doesn't score too badly here either. (Although, personally, 
 I've never regarded Graphics as being too important anyway.
  
  SOUND: The cars sound good, a choice of two real-life co-drivers, realistic clunks and clashes 
 plus plenty of ambient noise; great. You'll definitely want to switch off the music though!
  
  VALUE: It cost me 2.50 (about $4) a week ago. Can't say fairer than that.
  
  OVERALL: 
 Although I've raved about how great this game is, and IT IS, I imagine it's appeal wouldn't be 
 that wide. This is not a pick-up-and-play game. It's the kind of game that you will want to take 
 more seriously than that. It's the kind of game that will immerse you to such an extent that you'll 
 begin leaning into corners (seriously, I can't help it) . It's the kind of game that serious rally 
 enthusiasts will love, and that arcade ralliers will hate. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mort2fire
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 8, 2006 11:50 am PT
Review:  Both perfect rally simulation and eye-popping fast arcade action, the most realistic game seen 
 of todays standards.
  Fast pacing game, in rally championship and it sets the pace for a completely new generation of 
 racing games.
  
  Mastering the track with thrilling sharp u bends and obsticals in the road to judge.
  
  Real 
 time damage on the cars.
  Mide you dont blow your enegin, else the game stops, and if your driving in the dark, try not to 
 damage or brake your headlights, you will need them in the dark, lose them and you will be driving 
 in gear one to the finishing flag.
  
  Driving on the ICE, can be slippy, so be-careful how you drive, else your car will roll, and roll, 
 over the edge of the road, down into the water stream.
  
  Get stuck, and you can be introuble.
  
  Great game still today, 2006.
  Not another game like 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mithu1234
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 4, 2005 1:08 pm PT
Review:  THE GAME IS GOOD BUT AN OVERAPPRECIATED GAME. COLLIN RALLY 2 IS A MUCH BETTER GAME THAN THIS. THE 
 GRAPHICS ARE FREAK AND CARTOON LIKE, SO U DONT GET THE FEEL OF REAL RACING EXCEPT WHEN U ARE IN 
 THE COCKPIT OF THE CAR. BUT THE SETTING IS DETAILED AND EVERY POSSIBLE ITEM WHICH CAN BE VISUALISED 
 IN A RALLY SETTING IS IN THERE FOR WHICH THE MAKERS OF THE GAME NEED TO BE APPRECIATED. THE SOUND 
 OF ENGINE IS GOOD AND THE SCENERY ALTHOUGH AS I SAID NOT REAL IS ATTRACTIVE AND APPEALING IN ITS 
 BEAUTY. I LIKE THE ARCADE MODE WHICH REMINDS ME OF NEED FOR SPEED: PORSCHE UNLEASHED. RALLY IS A BORING 
 AFFAIR AS U SIT FOR ABOUT ONE HOUR WAITING FOR THE LONG JOURNEY TO END. U ARE DIRECTED EVERY NOW 
 AND THEN WHICH HELPS U TO BE AWARE BEFOREHAND OF THE LIKELY TURNS AND OBSTACLES COMING UR WAY.
 
  
  GRAPHICS: 8/10
  
  SOUND: 8/10
  
  GAMEPLAY:7/10
  
  OVERALL: BUY IT IF U ARE WILLING TO DEVOTE A LOT OF TIME AND PAY THE BUCKS BUT IT SHALL DEFINITELY 
 BE A GOOD ADDITION TO UR COLLECTION.
  ASHIRVAD PARIDA. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
