-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Mob Rule
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/mobrule/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 26, 1999
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6
Critic Score: 6.0, 8 Review (s)
User Score: 7.1, 141 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Simon & Schuster
Developer: Studio 3
Genre: Strategy
Date:     Sep 30, 1999 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Mob Rule fails dismally at comfortably acclimating you to its complex set of rules. 

 Mob Rule is Studio 3's follow-up to its city-management sim, Constructor. Released in 1997, Constructor 
 was a game crippled by a poor interface and inadequate documentation. This time around, the developers 
 have addressed many of the interface complaints, added a tutorial, focused exclusively on the organized 
 crime theme that made a guest appearance in the original, and replaced many of Constructor's more 
 hard-core sim elements with a frantic unit-based real-time-strategy style of play. However, while 
 it fixes some of Constructor's problems, Mob Rule introduces a whole new gang of disappointments. 

 Mob Rule's box cover depicts a grim-faced, realistic gangster pointing a gun directly at you. It's 
 a strange choice, since it's the first and last serious image in the game. Although the game is 
 about mobsters beating on each other, the in-game graphics are all humorous, and the characters 
 look and act as if they stumbled out of an episode of Wallace and Gromit. You play an aspiring 
 mob boss in some cartoon version of Prohibition-era America, attempting to build a crime empire 
 by managing both illicit and legitimate businesses as you try to keep the peace with the local 
 government and wage war against competing "families."  

 Like most building sims, the action is viewed from an elevated, isometric perspective. You control 
 the construction, upgrades, and ongoing maintenance of your growing territory. Mob Rule's conceit 
 is that each of your henchmen is represented by an actual unit that must be guided around the city 
 and assigned tasks that range from such mundane fare as staffing and repairing your businesses 
 to acting as muscle when relations with your neighbors turn sour. You must also tend to meta-level 
 management chores typical to the building genre - you must pay taxes, bribe officials, and generally 
 monitor the bottom line and maintain infrastructure. But the unit-level control and hectic combat 
 elements give Mob Rule the distinct feel of a real-time strategy game like Command &amp; Conquer. 

 A poorly designed interface could have turned Mob Rule's mixture of two already-complex genres into 
 an unplayable mess. Fortunately, controlling the game is not a problem. Studio 3 obviously expended 
 some effort to ensure that almost every necessary option is available and easily accessible in 
 the heat of play. The screen is densely packed with information, blinking lights, contextual animations, 
 and audible cues, making the game sometimes look and sound like a strategic pinball machine. But 
 for the most part it all works well. You won't be frustrated by an inability to control the action. 

 Which isn't to say you won't be frustrated. Mob Rule includes a tutorial that provides little in 
 the way of actual instruction. It is essentially just the first level of the game - a series of 
 ten missions each having a set of several subgoals that must be accomplished before moving on to 
 the next scenario. The tasks that must be completed are described briefly, but very little information 
 regarding the mechanics of actually carrying them out is disclosed. In a few key instances, such 
 as when you are asked to take over an enemy's building, the necessary information is not even contained 
 in the poorly laid-out manual. In other cases, it's obvious how to execute a particular action 
 but not obvious why you'd ever want to, other than the fact that it's a requirement for completing 
 the current level. Given Mob Rule's complexity, you'd expect a tutorial that clearly places actions 
 within the context of the game, detailing their cause-and-effect relationship to the simulated 
 world. Instead, Mob Rule fails dismally at comfortably acclimating you to its complex set of rules. 

 Once you've muddled your way through the instructional boards, you'll enter the game's four main 
 levels and discover they're structured exactly like the tutorial. Instead of opening up and becoming 
 the evil empire-building game detailed on the box, Mob Rule reveals itself to be a series of specific 
 puzzle-like tasks that must be accomplished sequentially for you to proceed. It discards the appeal 
 of city-simulation games, allowing for very little creativity in your navigation of the task list. 
 In some cases, attempting to strengthen your position through force when not specifically told 
 to will cause you to lose immediately. In addition, the real-time combat elements, the constant 
 niggling harassment from enemies and government forces, and the very frequent calamities that befall 
 your properties remove another of the genre's pleasures: occasionally sitting back and enjoying 
 your handiwork. There's never a quiet moment in Mob Rule - it's like playing SimCity with the disaster 
 setting ratcheted up to an insane level.  

 What's even more frustrating is that Studio 3 decided to include a multiplayer option that only 
 supports IPX, effectively eliminating Internet play unless you're prepared to take extreme outside 
 measures, such as installing Kali. There isn't even a skirmish mode for you to play against a computer 
 opponent. These two significant oversights create the real possibility that you'll never experience 
 the open-ended building and combat modes contained in the game and will merely play through its 
 five puzzle levels and be done.  

 It's difficult to completely dismiss Mob Rule. The graphics are clean and clever, and the interface 
 is almost perfectly suited to the completion of the tasks presented. It's the game itself that 
 never really gels. In the end, Mob Rule is an underdocumented, incomplete near miss that manages 
 to simultaneously drain the best elements out of both the empire-building and real-time-strategy 
 genres.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Hermitkermit
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 5, 2007 10:20 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: You are a close friend of the Don and have to construct your gang/mob empire, you build 
 houses, rent them, attack some rival gang, or send a bribe to the police, all in all it's a very 
 addicting game!!
  
  Graphics: Very old game but the animation still looks great and funny! I like how the people are 
 designed and move around....
  
  Sound: Kinda meh, like the gun shots all sound the same almost, music and voice acting is very 
 over the top, but kinda again med. Still has god explosion sounds!!!
  
  Replay Value: No multiplayer, that I know of.... so pretty low, but for me I always play this game 
 again and again! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Heystaw
Rating: 6.2
Date: Nov 13, 2005 3:52 pm PT
Review:  Here is a review from IGN staff member from IGN. com that I very closely related to in reguards 
 to this game... enjoy:
  
  September 16, 1999 - When the beta of this game hit our offices several months ago, we began the 
 same sort of preparations we would have for a big camping trip. We gathered a bunch of beer, some 
 sleeping bags and other basic necessities, warned our significant others about the impending release 
 of the game and prepared for what was sure to be a knockdown drag-out play-fest that would keep 
 us up for at least a week. Boy, were we wrong. Mob Rule is an almost perfect example of how a great 
 idea can turn into a bad (at best) game. I'm going to take the next few minutes of your life to 
 try and tell you what went wrong. 
  
  If you haven't been following the game, Mob Rule is a building/strategy game that put you in the 
 shoes of a Prohibition Era gangster trying to take over progressively more populous towns. To do 
 this, you've got to buy land, build businesses on that land, and then use those businesses to generate 
 the manpower and cash that you'll need to further expand. Now just to keep thing interesting, there's 
 another (at least another, there may be several) mob boss trying to expand his stake in the city 
 at the same time. If you want to win, you'll need to be savvy enough to build up your empire and 
 kill off (or otherwise pacify) the opposition while staying out of trouble with the law. Sound 
 like fun? We thought so too... 
  The first tip we had that Mob Rule wasn't going to be all it was cracked up to be is when we each 
 started up the tutorial. Normally when a game comes in, one of us plows through the tutorial and 
 then explains the basics to everyone else, but that wasn't an option here. You see, Mob Rule forces 
 you to play all the way through the tutorial to get access to the rest of the game. I really, really 
 hate having my access limited to a game that I purchased, but that's not really the biggest problem 
 here. You see, Mob Rule's tutorial doesn't work all the time. It took me three days to actually 
 get through all of the tutorial missions and gain access to the regular game (and multiplayer, 
 did I mention that you can't even play multiplayer without finishing the tutorial?) because of 
 the game's occasional failure to notice that I had completed all of the tasks it had set before 
 me. By the time I finished loading up a saved game, playing through a tutorial mission, having 
 it crap out on me, loading it up again, having it crap out on me again, and so on, I didn't want 
 to play the damn game anyway. Unfortunately, that's my job, and so I plowed on heroically (feeling 
 sorry for me yet?) hoping to find some joy after my frustrating introduction to the game. 
  
  It's not that I don't understand why the developers wanted to make you play through the whole 
 tutorial though, Mob Rule is a pretty complex game with lots of different characters and strategies 
 to figure out. When the game opens, you'll have access to only one type of unit -? the basic Worker. 
 Workers can be used to build new structures, work in factories and to carry heavy things. While 
 they can be used to fight if you're in a pinch, odds are that they're going to get their butts 
 kicked by just about anyone who tangles with them. New Workers can be bred in several of the buildings 
 you can construct in the game, as can the Tenants who are necessary to run those buildings. From 
 your HQ, you can convert your Workers into Fixers, your first specialty unit. Fixers are really, 
 really useful ?- they can fight pretty well (okay, not that well, but a hell of a lot better than 
 Workers) , they can repair damage to your buildings (which is very expensive to hire out for) , and 
 they can take over enemy properties. Once you're ready to expand a little bit, you'll need muscle 
 in the form of the Gangster. Gangsters are the real heavy hitters of the game and take an increasing 
 number of worker to build each time you create one. These murderous henchmen start the game armed 
 with a knife and get access to weapons upgrades as they gain experience. Using these three unit 
 types, you proceed with the game, building new structures, taking over enemy structures and rubbing 
 out anyone who tries to stop you. 
  
  While this might have been quite enough, Studio 3, the game's developers, have also added a great 
 number of background problems for you to deal with as well. In addition to dealing with enemies, 
 you'll also have to watch out for the police, who will raid your buildings (which shuts them down 
 for a short time) and arrest anyone they see committing a blatant crime. Those who are caught will 
 remain in the town jail for the rest of their sentence, which can be brutal, if you don't have 
 the resources to create a replacement. Other threats include Hookers, who can distract the people 
 in your neighborhood, Ghosts, who can scare your residents or cloak the movement of your enemies, 
 Saboteurs, who can make bomb that will level your buildings and Bruto, a psycho who destroys anything 
 that gets in his way. If you're careful in your dealings with this crew though, you may get access 
 to their help, which will give you an edge in any assault on your enemies. 
  
  In addition to keeping up with all of these different personalities, you'll also need to keep track 
 of a whole bunch of different objects, which you manufacture in order to improve the quality of 
 your different businesses. There's a whole bunch of these things, so I'm going to just mention 
 a couple here. First off, you've got trees, which you manufacture in your Gadget Factory. While 
 trees may not seem all that important to a gangster game, they actually cover up what's going on 
 in your businesses which in turn keeps the police from being as interested in what's going on there. 
 Next up are Subway Stations, which not only keep local Tenants happy, but also allow your henchmen 
 to move around the city faster. Telephones are also a big plus, as they automatically inform your 
 henchmen when anyone is attacking a building. Other items like Ovens (which are used to upgrade 
 your Soup Kitchens to Restaurants) and Stills (which are used to upgrade your Drinking Dens to 
 Breweries) are used to upgrade your current properties into better quality establishments that 
 can command higher rents. 
  
  Okay, all of this complexity would be fine if it actually led to a better gameplay experience, 
 but it just doesn't. For the most part, Mob Rule plays like a low quality SimCity (less buildings, 
 no traffic, and so on) but one in which your buildings are constantly threatened by destruction. 
 While I would be all for this, the actions you take in the game are actually ridiculously repetitive 
 with small changes in the pattern occurring only when you have to stop one of the aforementioned 
 other threats. Basically it goes like this ? you build new buildings until you get low on cash, 
 when you do, you go and capture enemy buildings until you have some more cash. Anytime anyone screws 
 with you, you send a gangster after them. With all of the possibilities presented by the business 
 of making, protecting and distributing illegal booze, it surprises me a great deal that this game 
 never really advances far beyond generating three different types of sims to beat the hell out 
 of each other. This simplicity of concept also bleeds into the game's multiplayer game which, despite 
 being very excited about it in advance, turned out to bore the crap out of all four of us. 
  
  There's other things wrong here as well. While Mob Rule has some fairly nice graphics, the 
 game's sound is simply horrible. Every time I played (yes, I have a Soundblaster compatible card) 
 I got horrible MIDI screwups in which the game's already awful soundtrack would be played out by 
 the wrong sound effect. Sometimes I got horns, sometimes I got organs, and sometimes I got something 
 that sounded like steam ejecting from the ground. I also had a sound error that would pop up every 
 few plays in which a single note would play and then persist until I turned off my computer. This 
 is really irritating, not just to me, but to my deskmate Steve, who threatened bodily harm to both 
 me and certain developers if I didn't turn my speakers off. 
  
  Mob Rule is a really good idea. I love SimCity and other building games, and I love the idea of 
 trying to incorporate more gameplay options into the genre. Unfortunately, the game just never 
 lives up to what I, and the rest of the crew, expected of it. At best it's redundant, at worst 
 it's frustrating and pointless. That's not what I'm looking for in my gameplay experience. Maybe 
 I'll just go camping instead... 
  
  -- Trent C. Ward
  IGN Staff
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bailey1987
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 3, 2005 7:16 pm PT
Review:  ARR, were did games like this go it's simplicity at its best i loved constructor and this adds 
 so muh more to it. i would love for there to be a revamp of this and many other games such as "Theme 
 Hospital" and "Dungeon Keeper"
  
  the graphics in it's day were ok and very dated now but its pick up and go stuff it delivers what 
 it say and does it well.
  
  the sounds are basic and the gameplay can get a little repetative at times but i can't elp but 
 have fun whilst playing it and the price you can find it for today is great value wise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Everclearules
Rating: 5.7
Date: Apr 14, 2005 5:43 pm PT
Review:  Mob rule is a game where you try to build up a Gang empire through the construction of businesses 
 and the creation of gang members to go beat up the other gangs. The whole while attention must 
 be paid to not angering the government.
  
  Very childlike graphics, which really doesn't give the feel of a 'mob' game as is implied on the 
 cover of the box. Most of the graphics try to be humorous over grim, and all and all come out to 
 be rather plain. While they certainly arer not the worst graphics, they certainly don't fit what 
 the box implies and are not the greatest I've seen, either.
  
  The gameplay is extremely simplistic and not fun, not to mention way too short. There's only about 
 10 missions in all. All of which have very little information provided as tho how to complete those 
 goals. I would not recommend this game to anyone no matter what. The game is just not fun and way 
 too short to even start being fun. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
