-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Monopoly Tycoon
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/monopolytycoon/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 25, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 8.2, 19 Review (s)
User Score: 7.8, 620 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Atari
Developer: Deep Red
Genre: Business Strategy
Date:     Sep 24, 2001
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Monopoly Tycoon uses the popular board game as the base on which to build a strong and innovative, 
 and great-looking, real-time game of business management and city building. 

 Most previous PC games based on Monopoly have gone in one of two directions: They either combine 
 the classic property-trading game with another popular license, as in Monopoly Star Wars Edition, 
 or they use the strong Monopoly brand and distinctive graphics to spruce up another type of game, 
 as in Monopoly Casino. Fortunately, Monopoly Tycoon breaks the mold by using the popular board 
 game as the base on which to build a strong and innovative, and great-looking, real-time game of 
 business management and city building.           It's a completely new approach to the classic 
 board game.    

  Monopoly Tycoon is the kind of game you might have imagined as a kid while you played the real 
 board game. The game includes all the familiar Monopoly elements, such as buying and selling properties 
 and utilities, collecting rent, and managing your money, but it expands on the idea by letting 
 you build a variety of retail and residential buildings and then manage your businesses by setting 
 stock amounts, prices, and rent. If you've ever wanted to see what an expensive Boardwalk hotel 
 would look like up close, this is your chance. While Monopoly purists may be wary of the numerous 
 changes and additions that have been made to the classic game, the end result is a pleasing and 
 challenging blend of city building and economic management, all created in the familiar, lighthearted 
 style of Monopoly.   

  You begin the game with a set amount of money in 1930, at which point the game's virtual city is 
 only sparsely built. You can proceed to invest in property, utilities, and railroads, as well as 
 build businesses. The game's easy-to-use research and analysis functions help you choose where 
 to build different types of structures -- for instance, a poll conducted on a specific city block 
 may reveal that the various inhabitants want more bread and meat, indicating that a butcher shop 
 or bakery would do well at that location. It's important to do some research before building, since 
 there are more than 40 types of potential businesses, and some will be more profitable than others. 
 The game also provides statistics on what types of people live in or commute to the city, which 
 helps you figure out what kind of residential structures to build.           You can auction off 
 and bid on various properties.     

  The property-management portion of Monopoly Tycoon comes into play when you want to lease an entire 
 city block. You compete against up to five other business owners during the game, and at any point, 
 one of you can flag a city block for auction, and all the others then have a chance to bid for 
 that property. Once you've leased a block, you become the landlord and collect the rent from the 
 businesses on that block for a period of time. If you lease all of the blocks in a color group 
 (which represents a district or neighborhood, as in the board game) , you gain the right to build 
 hotels, along with other advantages such as lower buyout costs. As the years pass in the virtual 
 city, new businesses become available, such as ice cream parlors, bowling alleys, and nightclubs, 
 and eventually supermarkets, video stores, and computer stores.   

  Monopoly Tycoon has a wide variety of single-player scenarios with goals that range from building 
 the largest empire by a certain year, to gaining the most popular votes to become mayor of the 
 city. There's even a Survivor-style last-man-standing scenario, where the city inhabitants vote 
 players out of the game one by one. The game runs in real time through day/night cycles, each of 
 which represents five years of game time, and time can also be accelerated to speed through the 
 occasional slow period. Most scenarios last between 30 minutes and an hour or so as the game progresses 
 from the 1930s up through the 1990s. The game includes three difficulty levels, which adjust the 
 strength of the opponents' artificial intelligence as well as your starting funds, and even the 
 easiest level should provide plenty of challenge and entertainment for most players.    

 Regardless of difficulty level, you'll have to tackle the single-player scenarios in order -- after 
 completing one successfully, the next scenario in the list is unlocked. The game also supports 
 multiplayer games for up to six players over a LAN or Internet connection, and you should be readily 
 able to find live online opponents using the provided GameSpy Arcade software. You can even opt 
 to play multiplayer against only computer-controlled opponents and set up your own scenarios rather 
 than having to unlock them. Six different customizable multiplayer modes of play are available, 
 which roughly correspond to the single-player scenarios. In addition, the game has a helpful series 
 of interactive tutorials that introduce new players to most of the game's features.           New 
 technologies and businesses are introduced over time.    

  Perhaps the most striking part of the game is its simple but powerful 3D engine. The game's three 
 main views -- the city view from overhead, the 3D block view, and the 3D business view -- are easily 
 accessible through either onscreen navigation or hotkeys, and in any of the 3D views it is simple 
 to rotate and tilt the camera to get the desired perspective. The 3D engine is clean and fast; 
 switching from one view to another is smooth and visually pleasing. The virtual city built in the 
 game is colorful and lively, with automobiles, pedestrians, and even boat traffic. As the game 
 progresses, it's fun to see how the city grows and changes as buildings are built, remodeled, and 
 demolished. The game's 3D computer-controlled opponents are also entertaining -- it's a shame that 
 the only time you'll see them in action is during property auctions. The opponents -- each inspired 
 by a Monopoly game piece such as the shoe, the top hat, or the iron -- each have distinct personalities 
 that are apparent both in their animations and in their style of play.   

  The game's music works well with the lighthearted theme of the game. As the game progresses through 
 the decades, the music actually adjusts to different soundtracks appropriate to that period in 
 time, and it's amusing to see how the simple instrumentals convey the general sense of that period's 
 music. The sound effects used in the game add a little bit of flavor and humor -- the sound of coins 
 lets you know when people make purchases at your businesses, and the ambient sounds of the city, 
 such as cars, wind, and pedestrians, give an aural indication of what time of day it is and how 
 active people are.           The game is clean, colorful, and easy to get into.    

  Those who relish the classic Monopoly game's blend of chance and strategy may find Monopoly Tycoon 
 to weigh too heavily on the strategy side -- there's no dice rolling, and the "chance" and "community 
 chest" cards have been turned into an optional element. Some may also find the game's real-time 
 gameplay too hectic; while the game does have a pause feature, you can't make adjustments to your 
 businesses and properties while the game is paused. This can be somewhat frustrating as you try 
 to research your competitor's businesses and adjust the prices of your own products. At some stages 
 in the game, the pace does slow down (usually between the hours of midnight and six in the morning) , 
 which gives you a little bit of breathing room to fine-tune your businesses. Another classic Monopoly 
 element that is missing is the sense of dread when you land on Boardwalk -- in Monopoly Tycoon, the 
 dread you will feel will be caused by Mr. Shoe's hardware store across the street undercutting 
 your prices, or the fear that you've mismanaged your money and might be eliminated from the game 
 due to bankruptcy.   

  Monopoly Tycoon is a fun game about buying and selling property, building businesses, and managing 
 money. While the game includes a great deal of depth and a significant number of options, some 
 of that complexity is optional, which leaves a basic game that's straightforward enough for almost 
 anyone to play. Fans of Monopoly will appreciate the way Monopoly Tycoon extends the board game 
 into a new and interesting direction, and the game's few minor faults are far outweighed by its 
 strong combination of crisp graphics, involved and varied gameplay, and entertaining premise.  
   
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (11 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: ACbomber
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 22, 2008 3:54 pm PT
Review:  just try it, legally or illegally. i got this one out of a cerial box
  
  try it
  and adore it
  
  i didnt touch the campain though... i played lan against my brother a countless 
 number of times... against the PC on a multiplayer game is tons of fun too... its kinda like civilization 
 in the sence that you start playing and you dont see time go by.
  
  we are 2008.... that makes that game 7 years old... and it doesnt show. the graphics were great 
 for it's time, the whole concept works excellent. if this were to come out for XBOX 360 as a downloadable 
 i would DEFINETLY strongly recommend it.... except for the fact that it really requires a mouse..... 
 would be great for Wii actually, with the IR (you dont need a keyboard)
  
  in any case.... if your bored, or are looking for an excellent LAN game... this is worth the try 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sapwood2
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 3, 2008 11:42 am PT
Review:  It's a game that seems only worthy of the bargain bin/shelf. I picked up a copy for around $20. 
 It seems overpriced, but it's quite fun for a while. It's a small game (by today's standards) . 
 It seemed somewhat short to me.
  
  Well, it tries to pass itself off as a tycoon game, when it's really just a 3D Monopoly board with 
 spaces in the middle. If you like SimCity 3000 or 4, City Life, or Rollercoaster Tycoon's design 
 aspects, while then you're in for disappointment. The building is not customizable, there are just 
 a few eras that open up new types of buildings. Everything is very automated. All you really do 
 is buy land up and set rent. The AI is not extremely aggressive, it is rather passive and frugal 
 with money.
  
  The game just isn't satisfying to a person into all the little details. It's great for a quick 
 bit of fun, though. If you want to just build a city really fast and not spend a lot of arduous 
 hours getting things right, this game is for you. It's a rather shallow game in my opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikylin
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 1, 2006 6:03 pm PT
Review:  That is the best description for this game. For all you realistic tycoon players it might be a 
 bit disappointing, but the game strikes me with it&acute; s originality.
  
  The game, the game-play and the way it works has been well done indeed, and even the music has 
 been rightly chosen to make you get the monopoly feeling.
  
  But not all is pretty about this.
  
  It IS quite a short game, also, it did not take me more 
 than 12 hours to have exhausted it. Of course you could play it REALLY difficult, but hey, if I 
 have finished it already in middle level (which is the difficulty I play most games in, cause the 
 games are made to be started that way I think) I just move on to the next game. Even so, surprisingly 
 good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SgtJcoo
Rating: 8.1
Date: Aug 9, 2006 9:43 am PT
Review:  Monopoly Tycoon, the tycoon game based on the real estate board game that uncountable people have 
 enjoyed for many many years has big shoes to fill to say the least! And it does. Though fans of 
 the classic board game looking for the same game with an updated look will not be satisfied with 
 Monopoly Tycoon, because it is a totally different game. The only similarities are the blocks' 
 names
  
  Gameplay: Like any other Tycoon game, you start with meagre investments, and must manage your small 
 empire to make it grow. MT gives you many management options, including suveying your customers 
 to see what they need, building hotels for more buisiness, attending auctions for the lease of 
 an entire block, and much much more! You can customize each building you build to an extent, including 
 size, style, floors, etc. The gameplay is as good as any other Tycoon game out there to date!
 
  
  Graphics: graphics are alright, but by today's standards, they could be better. The cars are blocky 
 and square, and the people walking around have very little detail.
  
  Sound: The sound of money exchagning hands is perfectly captured, and the music is catchy, if not 
 good. Otherwise, not much sound is needed to play a tycoon game! Nothing is truly bad quality mind 
 you.
  
  Value: I got this game out of a cereal box. This makes the value of it worth every penny, because, 
 I would have bought those Cheerios anyway!
  
  Overall, it is a good game, worth buying even if it wasn't in a cereal box! A Tycoon game to add 
 to the shelves of other good Tycoon games! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: webmessia
Rating: 7.3
Date: May 16, 2006 11:11 am PT
Review:  When i first git monopoly tycoon, i thought it was great. It was 2004 and i hadn't played many 
 new games. So all these 3d graphics seemed like the next gen, but once i got into gameplay i enjoyed 
 it for about 1, 2 weeks which is longer than most games i get at a low price. after that it just 
 lost its buzz. somthing that really wants to make you play it. I like the relation to monopoly 
 and it doesnt lose most of it similarites. you have chance cards which can be good or bad. But 
 its not a borad game, its a tycoon game. Several features and ocnditions in scenarios, let you 
 use stratagey to gain an edge on your computer or human opponents. now ive played other games, 
 the graphics look nowhere as good. but i rate games compared to what was around then. 
  value for money new 8.00 and old 3.00 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigpimpfattony
Rating: 5.3
Date: Mar 28, 2006 12:21 am PT
Review:  Mkay, monopoly tycoon is a decent game, and grows up to it's title, ALTHOUGH it is a total piece 
 of.... strategy if you ask me. 
  
  Boy, thank god i didn't buy this game? Thank god? Thank god for making infogrames create such a 
 piece...?
  
  Okay i know monopoly tycoon is a solid game, and i am too critical about it, but i really didnt 
 enjoy the gameplay, nor the visuals. The only thing i can give this game is the style, or the "tilt" 
 as gamespot identifies it.
  
  The good: ..... Solid game, and it IS monopoly, nothing more said.
  
  The bad: Oh where to begin, 
 the graphics. 
  
  The graphics: horrible, terrible, childish, cartoony, simply abysmal in all the ways thought. I 
 UNDERSTAND that this game was made back in ... 2001? But even then they had awesome games, with 
 AMAZING graphics for the time. Example? Unreal Tournament... reminds me i should write a review 
 for that. (Don't mind me) Back to the graphics. They were too cartoony, and i don't think kids 
 will want to play a game where you have to keep track of businesses, and keeping a cash balance. 
 To be honest these graphics make pokemon look like the most artistic thing to hit the earth. You 
 should just look at the characters in this game, they are block-headed, poorly animated, very few 
 animations actually. Poorly designed, fashioned, and presented. The idea is original, yes, but 
 original ideas usually tend to make great quality products, unlike this one. The cities look decent, 
 but still blocky even at 1280 x 1024. The menu, the selection bars, the, everything that isn't 
 the enviroment, just plain sucks, graphics-wise.
  
  The gameplay: The gameplay wasn't really bad overall, but did have many flaws and few pros. Surprisingly 
 *cough cough* The camera is probably the worst part, hard to control, makes you miss important 
 moments, very hard to get used to, and really badly done overall. Other than that the gameplay 
 is very nicely timed, very well put together, organized, and presented, but then again when you 
 had to deal with those cartoony, childish, characters from the game, such as at auctions, that 
 was painful.
  
  The sound: Very shabby, horrible sound effects, annoying repetitive music, can't get it out of 
 my head. Again with the characters (what is it with them that i make fun of, in each section of 
 my review? I dont know, let's try, everything.)
  The characters sound like dying birds, mostly at auctions. (thank god that is the only place you 
 see them animated) The music, i don't get it? But okay, it's original. I'll give it the marks for 
 that.
  
  Bottom line: Again, monopoly was a great board game, if i could rate that i would nearly give it 
 a perfect score. The monopoly game does include many of the monopoly moments, but fails to demonstrate 
 all of the game's fun capabilities, it could've just been a LOT more.
  
  Bottom line #2: Well, buying this game would be as idiotic as drinking brake fluid, and it's not 
 even worth the 5-10 bucks that it sells for. Easy to download, very small file size. 200-400 megs 
 i think. 
  
  Final bottom line: (3 bottom lines?) Don't buy it, if you can get your hands on this game for free, 
 then try it, you might not be taken in by the silly graphics or the gameplay at first, but the 
 game grows on you, as you play along. Monopoly fans will definately enjoy this one, and unlike 
 the board game, you can play this one with the computer :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PistonsFanatic
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 13, 2006 8:22 pm PT
Review:  If you've ever played the classic Monopoly board game and wished, "Man, I wish there was a way 
 to update Monopoly", then you need to give Monopoly Tycoon a try. Infogrames and Deep Red hit the 
 nail on the head with this near-masterpiece. It's a combination of the classic Monopoly board and 
 a money-based simulation game where you build businesses on the city "blocks" (which are the properties 
 from the Monopoly board plus a few new additions) , adjust prices and stock quantity to match demand, 
 and use your profits to expand your business empire. Over time, new businesses become available, 
 and it's up to you to keep up with the citizens' demand for the new businesses. Also you can build 
 apartments, which give citizens a place to live and can improve your customer base. The city blocks 
 themselves can be "leased" via auction, and the winner of the auction becomes the "landlord" and 
 holds the block's lease for 25 game years, which is approximately 50 minutes of real time. During 
 that span, the "landlord" collects the rent from all opponents' businesses on that block and if 
 s/he owns business there, they pay no rent. That's one element of the game I love ----the status 
 quo is always changing since blocks aren't owned forever. There are many different ways to win, 
 and with 17 different scenarios playable on three difficulty levels, the replayability is VERY 
 high. Another thing I enjoy about this game is the music, which changes to keep up with the times ----from 
 swing music in the 40's to disco in the 70's to techno in the 90's. Another interesting feature 
 is the selection of characters: When playing, you play as one of the 10 characters from the classic 
 Monopoly game, but in this game, they are personified, and each AI player plays with a different 
 style and personality, depending on the character. All in all, this is one of my favorite games 
 of any kind on any platform, and if Monopoly and making money is your name, then Monopoly Tycoon 
 is your game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joeyp7711
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 25, 2006 6:17 am PT
Review:  I mean yeah this game is pretty good, and it ran really well. But I don't know if I only like the 
 game because I was going through a Monopoly fanboy phase..
  
  I really enjoyed playing this game online, and I think it was probably the game that made me join 
 in with the whole online gameplay hype..
  
  There are a few modes such as "Make the most profit" and "Highest Empire Value", and they are cool 
 to play online, and it's even better because you can work out certain techniques to get there faster. 
 Although this can be annoying when you're new, and you have no idea what you're doing because of 
 the better players are doing this. But then again, this is a great way to learn.
  
  You can change the settings in the game to make it run faster or slower, which is determining whether 
 the computer you're running on it can handle the better quality settings. You can also change the 
 board settings, as in you can make it so that the board has all of the British names, or the US 
 names, or any other version for that matter. I just remember there being big list :P
  
  I'd also recommend this game ;) 7 Thumbs up ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eriktirto
Rating: 6.8
Date: Oct 31, 2005 7:27 pm PT
Review:  I really love this game.. good but not the greatest !!!! well of course, it is good to be played 
 for just plain boredom eraser. But on top of that, this game is just an ordinary type of game and 
 nothing really good for it.. TO be honest, i finished this game for just only 3 days... and it's 
 not 24/7 play... isn; t too easy ?? NO, it's quite hard too.. but guess what, there are no story 
 in it.. it's just too short in hard way !!! really !!!! For now, i would love to recommend this 
 game to you but actually this game is not a must for you to have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StormRaider31
Rating: 7.4
Date: May 5, 2005 10:56 pm PT
Review:  I enjoyed the graphics the most. It's been a while since I played (I bought & played it when it 
 first came out) . But I remember really liking the way the game looked especially the night to day 
 and the dispersion of sim-citizens off to school or work then shopping, then nightlife. It made 
 it feel like a real city. The sound and music was nice. I enjoyed the music but it did become repetitive 
 after a point. The game was short but in a sense that was good because no matter what the scenario 
 or who your AI competition was you could pretty much use the same strategy and win. I finished 
 the game and was satisfied; but since the "harder" levels did not offer any new scenarios but pretty 
 much just reduced the amount of money you started out with (like SIMCITY) I did not feel compelled 
 to replay through the silver and gold levels. Bottom line, It was fun while it lasted but once 
 I played through and beat it had no replay incentive for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zaethro
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 16, 2005 2:29 am PT
Review:  Just for the record, this game is NOT Monopoly. It may use every single antic from Monopoly you 
 can think of, from the characters to Chance cards to properties to utilities, but the game manages 
 to implement all of the stuff that is Monopoly without putting a lick of the board game in it. 
 The only real gameplay-affecting concept taken from the Parker Brothers title is the benefits of 
 taking all the properties of a single color over, but even THAT is questionable.
  
  This is not a bad thing.
  
  It is an excellent business strategy game and one of the only to 
 date that I have felt satisfied with the competitive feel of the game. Gameplay rarely gets dull 
 as you always must be on alert for price changes, new fads, and absence of old fads (it'll sneak 
 up on you very quickly) whilst attempting to outdo your opponents. The AI is sometimes quirky, 
 but overall is pretty smart and sometimes a bit underhanded (they switch their prices all the time 
 and they do it with respectable efficiency) . The graphics, despite being a bit plain, are smooth 
 as silk and the 3D controls and interface are very well engineered. The music is very fitting for 
 each time period (In the 1950s, a saxophone soloist plays a slow jazz tune which is very well done 
 might I add) and each track is only repeated 2 or 3 times at most before changing to the next time 
 period. The gameplay is well varied between the modes and few extra scenarios could have been asked 
 for. The biggest thing that frustrates me about this game (it is not even too much of a fault) 
 is the speed at the very beginning. It moves too quickly to get your businesses running on the 
 first day and you consequently miss a day of sales.
  
  This game is ideal for fans of:
  -Rollercoaster Tycoon
  -SimCity (any pretty much)
  -Indirect combat games 
  
  Ideal gameplay 
 circumstances:
  -Having only one or two hours to burn
  -Dusk (5 to 8 PM)
  -Don't want to get frustrated
  -Already are frustrated 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
