-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Monopoly (1995)
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/puzzle/monopoly95/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 24, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.1
Critic Score: 7.1, 7.3 Review (s)
User Score: 7.3, 261 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Hasbro Interactive
Developer: Westwood Studios
Genre: Board
Date:     Sep 30, 1995

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Even in single-player mode, Monopoly shines as a brilliant example of what programmers can do with 
 a simple concept if they set their minds to it. 

 I know what you're thinking: "It's Monopoly; how hi-tech can it be?" As unlikely as it may sound, 
 Westwood has transformed Parker Brothers' classic board game into a box full of highly rendered, 
 smoothly animated, multiplayer goodness.  

 Even in single-player mode, Monopoly shines as a brilliant example of what programmers can do with 
 a simple concept if they set their minds to it. Attached to all game pieces, board locations and 
 events are beautifully rendered 3-D animationsover 800 in allthat faithfully recreate 
 the game's early 1930s appeal. The soundtrack is pleasant, though it can get annoying over the 
 duration of what are often lengthy competitions. Besides the window dressing, Monopoly also offers 
 everything you'd expect from the board game: money, extensive trading options that allow players 
 to wheel and deal properties, and even "Get Out of Jail Free" cards.  

 Monopoly's greatest feature is its carefully designed multiplayer support. You can challenge up to 
 five other players in either network or Internet mode. If none of your friends are ready to play, 
 check out Westwood's Internet waiting room, where you'll find other players from all over the world 
 who are looking for a game. (Yes, the game will even sort out differences in language and currency 
 types.) .  

 In the end, even with all the bells and whistles, Monopoly is Monopoly, and if you don't like the 
 board game, you won't like the computer adaptation. But if you're a fan, Westwood's take on the 
 venerable classic is a great way to compete with players all over the world from the comfort of 
 your own home.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (10 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: koopatroopa1015
Rating: 2.5
Date: Dec 14, 2007 5:53 pm PT
Review:  Monopoly, the most loved board game, is on PC! Now you can be a tycoon on your computer! But you 
 won't want to with this. It's awful. It's too much like the plain game and there are no extra fun 
 things to it. It's a wonderful board game filled with lots of fun, so it makes me sad to see such 
 a game be turned into this atrocious piece of garbage. Do they call this Monopoly or what?
  
  You won't have fun at all, right off the start. It's instantly boring and repetitive. There 
 is no feel of Monopoly in this game at all. It's just plain old move a piece around a board game 
 and play alone against a stupid CPU. To make matters worse, the graphics are awful. They're dull 
 and poor. The SFX? Not much better. And there's really no music.
  
  This is an absolute waste of time and money. If you are in the mood for some monopoly, grab a friend 
 or more and play the actual board game. I definitely do not recommend this to anyone.
  
  Monopoly is an awesome board game. But this PC title is trash. Play it on the board - that's the 
 best way to enjoy the great game of Monopoly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Humikimi
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 14, 2007 9:34 pm PT
Review:  I'll tell you right now, I am a huge fan of Monopoly and have at least three different versions 
 of the board game lying around the house. That being said, this PC version of the game is Monopoly 
 right down to the core. First and foremost, the rules are not only retained, but you can modify 
 the rules here and there to suit your fancy, just in case you don't like the official rules as 
 they are. That is a definate plus. There are also different AI personalities you can play against, 
 that play differently and are different difficulties. Sometimes they seem impossible but overall 
 they are fairly well made for the time. The truth is that this game is really fun, like always, 
 when you play against other humans. You can do it on the same computer or online, or both. That 
 is really the shining feature of this, making you able to play against people that you can't always 
 get together with.
  
  As for the looks, well it looks sharp and the cutscenes are fun to watch. The cutscenes do get 
 annoying sometimes when you want to play quickly, and luckily they can be turned off if you wish. 
 The music is actually very catchy and good, and the soundtrack is varied enough to keep you entertained. 
 By the way, the sounds are mostly annoying.
  
  The game sounds wonderful right? Well it's main drawback is that it does nothing to distinguish 
 itself from the board game, and nothing beats gathering around with a bunch of friends and playing 
 the actual board game. This is pure Monopoly unchanged, and in that aspect, it delivers exactly 
 as it should. It is also a nice distraction when you need a break, due to the ability to save the 
 game whenever you want. Overall it is fun, but don't expect a Half-Life quality game out of this, 
 just expect a casually fun board game and you will likely be satisfied. Enjoy.
  
  Gameplay: 8/10
  Graphics: 8/10
  Music: 7/10
  Value: 6/10
  
  OVERALL: 7.5/10 (7.25/10.0) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frogsoblivion21
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jul 27, 2006 10:06 am PT
Review:  Monopoly (1995) is just like the boardgame Monopoly with less thinking and more clicking. The good 
 thing about this version of Monopoly is that the creators did not change anything about the classic. 
 They did not take any huge chances, which is good. Just like the boardgame, they made more boards 
 available to play on, such as New York, Washington, and other major cities. 
  
  Monopoly (1995) does not do anything graphically impressive. There are random lights that go across 
 the board and follow your piece as it moves. The pieces also dance around the board when they are 
 moving, which is the only movement you should plan on seeing. besides the dice. 
  
  Aside from collecting and losing money, there is an interesting auction system. If you think you 
 could get a better deal on the property being sold, or just cant afford it, use the auction system. 
 All the players participate in the auction. The auction is simple, simply put out the desired amount 
 of money to keep out-bidding the other players, or just let the other players fight for it. 
  
  As far as the sound goes, it is good quality, but there is not much selection as to what the 
 NPC's say. All together they probably have around 5 lines total, and they are all cheesy. Mr. Monopoly 
 has the most lines, but he only says the obvious. If you are playing this game, you are better 
 off playing it with the sound turned off. 
  
  Overall this is a pretty good game that is well done. This is a good way to pass the time by and 
 have fun while doing it. But if you have to choose between the PC version and the boardgame, play 
 the boardgame and be social! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sony931
Rating: 6
Date: May 20, 2006 12:43 pm PT
Review:  Monopoly is simply noticed to be the greatest board game in history but this PC version of the 
 popular game simply is kinda enjoyable but yet when I play this , it seems that the fun is strucked 
 by gameplay money and I was so mad that day when I just lost it thanks to the waste of all it. 
 However , this does introduce good graphics but like I said , the gameplay is hammered on the review. 
 Now for the sound it's okay if you basically take your eyes upon the Sound score for a second and 
 that simply ends it. The value isn't really in there or at least it is due to not really looking 
 at this but overall , this game is hard but with graphics and sound better then what it should 
 me , you could even buy it for a cheap price or even stay away as possible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ApeOverlord
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 22, 2006 5:34 pm PT
Review:  Do you realize how long it takes to set up Monopoly? Playing the board game, it took a little while 
 to give everyone the right amount of money and to set up all the properties. This game does it 
 all for me and it truly is beautiful. If I were to give this game a nickname, it would be High-Tech 
 Monopoly. This is a great classic that shouldn't be avoided.
  
  Do I have to give an explanation to this game? If you've already played Monopoly the board game, 
 then you'll know it here; which is technically the same. I also want to say something to those 
 naysayers, "THIS GAME ISN'T BORING!!!!" One of the best board games I've ever played. Too lazy 
 to set up the game? This game already takes care of that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSBMFighter
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 9, 2006 9:02 am PT
Review:  A few years back I was at a flea market and I got it for five dollars and it was spent great. I 
 have played this game for a long long time.
  The gameplay is traditional Monopoly, which I really liked. The most impressive of the gameplay 
 wasn't the interaction but was the super hard A. I. It is still super hard to when a match of monopoly 
 on this game plus the hours of time it takes up is fun and will make sure you get your moneys worth 
 on the game.
  The graphics are better than you would think and actually looks good against some of todays games. 
 The cards and peices look good and the enviroments on the cards that it shows you look great. 
 
  The sound has a fun beat and the theme is fun. It isn't the best game sound wise but it is great 
 on older computers like the '98 and the MEs.
  If you are looking for a cheap monopoly game this is one to get because of the price and the value 
 of the game. This s a game all board game fans will want in their collections. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Achilles438
Rating: 2.5
Date: Mar 24, 2006 2:31 pm PT
Review:  This game just doesnt; do the board game justice. The music is terrible and annoying and it treats 
 you like you are two years old. I really dont know why I even bought this game, maybe because 
 I am a big fan of the board game and I wanted to see if the comp could be challenging. Turned out 
 I was wrong. The graphics are not good either, It was just annoying watching the pieces move from 
 tile to tile and you would hear that annoying characters voice asking if you wanted to buy the 
 property or not. I dont recommend this game to anyone who expects this to be like the board game. 
 Dont get me wrong, Monopoly is a great game, but not on the pc. By the way, dont buy the alternate 
 versions of monopoly either, stick to the original.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: terryprior
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 22, 2006 7:45 am PT
Review:  This fast-paced version of the classic real-estate-mogul game seems even more addictive than we 
 remember. Monopoly lets you play against up to three computerized or human opponents on your Palm 
 device. Available customization options are not plentiful, but you can at least choose your playing 
 piece and which AI opponents you face off with. Monopoly's colorful board is laid out just like 
 its real-world counterpart, and gameplay proceeds in the same manner with one exception. Although 
 you'll be able to reject or accept trade offers from other players, we could never figure out how 
 to initiate a trade ourselves. That said, the built-in opponents can be quite clever, and it took 
 us a few tries for us to bankrupt them. We would prefer a longer trial period, particularly since 
 the game is so entertaining, but you should still be able to get a clear enough picture whether 
 it's worth purchasing. If you love Monopoly and carry a Palm, we see no reason why this one would 
 disappoint you. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: joeyp7711
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 19, 2006 4:00 am PT
Review:  Okay i admit, I am a bit of a complete Monopoly freak, but this game is one great classic. If you're 
 a fan of the board game, then simply buy this. We all know how no-one likes to play Monopoly, and 
 we all get the same excuses over and over again such as "I always lose", or "The game takes too 
 long!", but with this game you can play it over and over again, get better at it and play against 
 AI computer opponents! So if you really are a fan, then this would be a great game to try!
  
  I learnt a few rules about the board game whilst playing it on the computer, such as if you 
 land on "GO", then you apparently recieve 400! Didn't know that! And I still don't really understand 
 the random rewards for landing on "Free Parking", but then again, that's something else I'm yet 
 to learn from playing this game :)
  
  I'm going to rate this game high, because I'm so bias towards it :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: opima
Rating: 5.3
Date: Dec 5, 2005 6:26 am PT
Review:  Monopoly is a much better game, and a lot more fun when played like it was meant: as a board game. 
 When transferred to a PC game, it just looses so much of games fun -- playing with real people. The 
 AI in some games is almost impossible to deal with, trades are nearly never accepted and stalemates 
 in the game come often. This makes the game tedious. At least with your friends you know a stalemate 
 isn't any fun and trades are easy. In other games the AI just roles over and plays dead and the 
 game is over before you know it. These two extremes also make this game tedious. I think I only 
 played for short while before it was sold on ebay.
  
  The gameplay is decent enough, and the graphics are pretty cool. However, after a while the whole 
 "newness" wears off fast and some of the things in the gameplay get annoying. The sould could use 
 a little work, it becomes really lame. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
