-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Monster Garage
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/driving/monstergarage/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb 23, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 3.3
Critic Score: 3.1, 3 Review (s)
User Score: 6.1, 192 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision Value
Developer: Invictus
Genre: Strategy
Date:     Jan 21, 2004
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The lack of any strategy to the gameplay, a generally poor design, and an endless number of stability 
 problems turn Monster Garage into a real monster, all right. 

  Those who regularly watch the Discovery Channel will undoubtedly know the name  Monster Garage 
 . It's the show where motorcycle guru Jesse James and his team transform a vehicle into a functional 
 machine with a purpose. It's no surprise that the fun, dynamic show would branch into computer 
 gaming. Unfortunately, though, the developers of the Monster Garage couldn't transform the concept 
 into a functional game. The lack of any strategy to the gameplay, a generally poor design, and 
 an endless number of stability problems turn Monster Garage into a real monster, all right.  

 
           Jesse James and crew take seven days to create life, but this isn't a Bible story.   
   

  The  Monster Garage  TV show works like this: Jesse James and a group of specialists are given 
 a task. For example, they may have to convert an RV into a mobile skate ramp, or they may have 
 to convert a Porsche into a golf ball retriever. It's not that easy, though, because the team has 
 to complete the project in seven days and is only given a budget of $3,000. The team  is  allowed 
 to sell unused parts that have been stripped from the work-in-progress vehicle to earn extra cash, 
 though. The computer game version gives you seven challenges that follow these show-specific rules. 
 However, fans of the series who are expecting something new will be disappointed to learn that 
 the game uses challenges that have been lifted straight from the TV show.  

  Each challenge in the game is split into four phases: design, construction, decoration, and trial. 
 Day one is solely devoted to picking a design. The first couple of challenges only let you choose 
 one design, but the latter challenges allow you to pick one of three designs. Days two through 
 six are spent chopping up the vehicle, ordering materials, creating custom parts, and attaching 
 parts to the "monster." If you click on a team member, you'll see a list of tasks that he or she 
 can perform. Each task takes a certain amount of time, and adding or subtracting parts from the 
 vehicle also eats up the clock. On day seven, you are allowed to customize your monster with paint 
 jobs and decals. When finished, you'll actually get to drive your monster in a contest that's specific 
 to that vehicle. For example, the rock climbing vehicle has to reach three checkpoints before the 
 timer runs out, while the limo-fire truck has to put out a fire.  

  And that's all Monster Garage has to offer. It truly is as straightforward as the above paragraph 
 describes. This is because each challenge has a paint-by-numbers approach. There is only one way 
 to build the monster. You can't cut any corners. You can't construct anything cool on your own. 
 Nope, Jesse is going to build a roll cage the same way every time. If you get stumped, a video 
 will give you a part-by-part installation blueprint on how to build the monster, so there's no 
 mystery about what you need. There's a little guessing involved in how to build some of the parts, 
 but all you need to do is buy one of each raw material. The "team" members will then reveal what 
 they need to fabricate custom parts.  

          A child can find a paint-by-numbers coloring book to be more difficult than this.     

 
  We put "team" in quotation marks because this is another huge disappointment in the Monster Garage 
 game. Most of the TV show's excitement comes from the team's interaction. They talk and hang out, 
 but more importantly, they get intense when there is tension after a setback. You'll find none 
 of this interaction in the game. In fact, you never even know who your team is  because no one 
 is introduced. All you ever see are four portraits in the top right corner of the screen. That's 
 right, only four team members are in the game version, one of whom is always Jesse James. What's 
 even more incredulous is that each team member has the exact same skills. Jesse will take just 
 as long to weld a custom axle as any of the other three team members. It would have been interesting 
 if the team members had strengths and weaknesses, like they do in real life. You would then be 
 forced to plan out your part schedule to make sure that you could finish in time. But alas, the 
 game results in a simple "click-fest" when handing out assignments.  

  Attaching or removing parts isn't any better. For example, say you want to remove a wheel. You 
 first click on the wheel to bring up a close-up view of it, along with five lug nuts. You simply 
 click the mouse on each lug nut to loosen it -- and voil! The wheel is removed. Welding is 
 even worse. You'll trace a line with a torch to magically attach parts to the vehicle. These tasks 
 actually aren't so bad in themselves. In fact, it's quite exciting to start a new challenge to 
 find what you can tinker with -- but it gets old quickly. You can't skip these mundane activities, 
 so you'll have to loosen five lug nuts on all four tires to remove the wheels every time. You'd 
 wish you could skip them if you needed to restart the challenge -- like if the game crashed on you. 
     

  Monster Garage had some monster stability issues on our machines. It's been reported that the game 
 is most unstable on Windows XP machines, but there are still numerous other bugs unrelated to operating 
 systems. Simple things like clicking on an arrow too quickly may cause the game to crash to the 
 desktop. Sometimes the game will freeze up. On our sixth mission, one of the designs for the golf 
 ball retriever actually caused the vehicle to fall through the gameworld. Monster Garage also suffers 
 from some terrible interface design. Once you start a game, you can't get back to the main menu 
 without saving the game. The only way you can get back to the menu is by selecting the "save and 
 exit to menu" option. In fact, this is the only way you can save a game. Due to its frequent crashes, 
 the game would be better if there was some easier way to quickly save it. If you don't want to 
 save and would rather load another game (or if you'd like to quit) , you have to press Alt-F4 to 
 relaunch Monster Garage.  

          Testing the design in the garage isn't nearly as problematic as attempting to run the game. 
     

  The activity timing could have also been tweaked. When you add or remove parts, the times seem 
 to be arbitrary. For example, according to the game, it takes the team 20 minutes to remove one 
 tire. Aren't these guys supposed to be experts? If you make it past day seven, congratulations! 
 Now you get to test your monster in a driving simulation. For example, the lawn mower needs to 
 cut a certain percentage of a field while driving up and down the grass. Sometimes it can be fun 
 to finally get out of the shop, but this desire fades quickly because of the rudimentary execution 
 of driving in the game. In the TV show, the monster must defeat a standard machine at its own game. 
 Jesse would have to cut grass with the Ford Mustang lawn mower faster than a real lawn mower. But 
 alas, you'll be driving in the fields all alone in the game version, which is just as well because 
 the physics are rather absurd, particularly in the first three missions. You'll skid, slide, and 
 flip over countless times before you can finesse the system.  

  The driving portion puts you in a small, controlled environment with bland textures. You'll notice 
 clipping in some parts, especially when the water is inside the supposedly waterproof swamp buggy. 
 Car models look fairly similar to their origins, though parts do tend to be blocky and have low-resolution 
 textures. The game has a radio function that plays fitting heavy metal music, but the track selection 
 is limited. The shop sounds, like torches and power tools, are appropriate and are perhaps the 
 only portion of the game that can say this.  

          We have a perfectly good monster, but no one wants to race us.     

  There really isn't 
 much to keep you playing Monster Garage. Even if you brave all the crashing, the game will take 
 you only a few hours to complete. The challenges are all easy, except for the final one. This is 
 unfortunate because the last challenge is actually enjoyable and is significantly harder than the 
 others -- and  it requires you to make some sort of plan. Additionally, you can't fault the linear 
 approach to building the monster. Let's face it -- you  do  need to install parts in a given order 
 in construction. However, you  can  fault the game for being so inflexible with the parts themselves. 
 Why can't we build a roll cage with fewer cross beams in order to save money? If the in-game engine 
 was more complex, to allow for damage modeling, you could have had this trade-off. Was saving a 
 few bucks really worth the risk of damaging the vehicle in the trial? You should be able to ask 
 yourself this same question in regard to the game. Is it worth saving a few bucks to avoid a frustrating 
 and empty game? We think so.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: blacktigern
Rating: 2.8
Date: Jul 14, 2006 7:59 am PT
Review:  but with a very bad design so i suggest that someone how can make this crap a worthy game , the 
 game have something different from the other games but needs a major modifications like all of 
 these videos that doesn't worth anything , and making the modifications to the car they should 
 work on this part too much with removing the limit to the cash to be more funny.
  
  the graphics is too much bad because of video problems appears in mission two the car is getting 
 higher and higher with the patch v 1.03 installed which means that the original game is a fatal 
 mistake means its a piece of garbage or something like that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: burnoutx1985
Rating: 3.6
Date: Jan 7, 2006 1:10 pm PT
Review:  - It's as if Hollywood wasn't doing enough to ruin our favorite TV shows. That's the only rationale 
 behind Activision Value's latest game, Monster Garage. Now, I've been a fan of the show since it 
 first aired two years ago. The reality-TV concept married to a high pressure automotive engineering 
 challenge is damned exciting to me, not just because of the open-ended mechanical problem-solving 
 but also because of the incendiary personalities. Sadly, neither quality has managed to find its 
 way into the game. What we're left with instead is a puzzle game that inexplicably straddles the 
 line between Byzantine complexity and generic simplicity. THis game is pretty much a waste of disc
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: carnalshadow
Rating: 3.5
Date: Oct 17, 2005 10:32 pm PT
Review:  If you really want it try the trial or wait till its bargin bin.
  
  What a waste.
  Gameplay
  Lacking... Big... Mouse clicks remove and add parts and the only other real interaction 
 you'll get here is in screwing and unscrewing bolts and either cutting or welding pieces of metal. 
 :p
  Graphics
  Not terrible but not any good either. Small glitches heighten the lack of reality.
  Sound
  
 The best thing probably in the game. Metal music... Lets rock.... Car and tool sounds.
  
  If you really want it try the trial or wait till its bargin bin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: C0deZer0
Rating: 3.2
Date: Apr 2, 2005 9:22 pm PT
Review:  This is going to be a short and sweet review. I have been a big fan of Monster Garage since it 
 came out. To put the show simply, a build team is brought in to take a normal (or not so normal) 
 vehicle and turn it into something is wasn't intended to be or do. The build team has 7 days to 
 plan out their monster and have $3000 to spend on parts. The build team works together, or most 
 of the time against each other to race the clock to get this done. The Garage has produced a Mini 
 Cooper that is a snow mobile, an ambulance turned into a fire truck, and a school bus turned into 
 a party boat. Sounds like a good premise for a game right? Wrong.
  
  Simply enough, everything is bad in this game. You start out on day 1, which is the planning day. 
 You would think that you could tweak the vehicles any way you wanted, but this was the first flaw 
 I saw... You can't do anything to the vehicles, since they took vehicles from previous shows, You 
 can build those. Once you are on the building days, you will have to weld, cut, and replace parts 
 of the vehicle by simplistic actions with your mouse. To weld, you follow a previously made line, 
 to remove bolts you hold down a mouse button until it comes off, and to fabricate any part for 
 the vehicles you buy the parts or use parts from the vehicle and give them to a screen shot of 
 a builder and they "work" on it. The only challenge to this is when you get off of the first vehicle 
 and you have to buy different types of tubes and metal to combine, but that in itself is not very 
 challenging. After you are done building your "monster" you will have to complete a challenge with 
 it. Like with the rock crawler, you will have to climb a mountain to get to three checkpoints, 
 and that's it. Trust me, this is just not fun. If all of this was bad enough, the game is well 
 known for crashing, and I mean a lot. Even with existing patches, it still doesn't fix the problem.
 
  
  The bottom line is this... If you are a fan of Monster Garage, continue to watch the show, because 
 honestly, this is not worth the price tag and you will have more fun watching an episode of it 
 for an hour than playing it. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
