-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Monster Madness: Battle for Suburbia
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/monstermadness/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 A lengthy campaign with four-player cooperative play.
 lots of weapon and vehicle variety.
 online multiplayer has its moments.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Combat controls are sluggish and imprecise.
 clumsy jumping and dodging mechanics.
 campaign can't be played in co-op online.
 graphics and audio are unremarkable.
 camera nearly wrecks cooperative play.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 13, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.1
Critic Score: 5.9, 9 Review (s)
User Score: 6.3, 132 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: SouthPeak Games
Developer: Artificial Studios
Genre: Shoot-'Em-Up
Date:     Jun 12, 2007 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Monster Madness is a monster mess. 

  Monster Madness: Battle for Suburbia really wishes it was born in the '80s. It's got its heart 
 in the right place, aiming to capture the kitschy vibe of such zombie-murdering classics as Zombies 
 Ate My Neighbors and creating a gameplay design that feels like a 3D mash-up of Gauntlet or Ikari 
 Warriors. When you throw in four-player co-op play, a bunch of goofy competitive multiplayer modes, 
 a lengthy campaign, and a ridiculous number of monsters to kill, the recipe for some good old-fashioned 
 fun would seem to be in place. But Monster Madness botches the execution. This includes a counterintuitive 
 control scheme, oddly balanced difficulty, obnoxiously repetitive combat, and a nearly useless 
 camera in co-op mode. Eventually such problems become too numerous and too annoying to tolerate, 
 turning what could have been a simple monster-killing romp into a scattered, clumsy mess.  

          There are monsters. There is madness. That much is true.     

  Monster Madness revolves 
 around a quartet of teenage stereotypes (the geek, the bro, the goth chick, the cheerleader) who 
 find themselves in the midst of an invasion from a greatest-hits collection of the monster world. 
 For some reason, ghouls, ghosts, goblins, skeletons, mummies, werewolves, gremlins, vampires, martians, 
 UFOs, harpies, banshees, leprechauns, jack-o-lanterns, chupacabras, evil trees, demons, medusas, 
 imps, evil clowns, spiders, gargoyles, swamp monsters, the grim reaper, zombies, zombie dogs, zombie 
 pirates, zombie samurais, zombie Indians, zombie grannies, zombie tanks, and exploding zombies, 
 among others, are attacking suburbia. And the four hapless kids are the only ones around to do 
 anything about it. Armed with melee weapons, such as axes or plungers, they dive headfirst into 
 this monster-killing adventure, cracking bad jokes and pining for one another all along the way. 

  The story is more of an excuse to get you killing monsters than anything else, though it's also 
 an excuse to insert as much awful comedy as possible into the proceedings. Occasionally, the game 
 elicits a chuckle or snicker, but for the most part, the script isn't all that funny. Part of this 
 has to do with the jokes, which often rely too heavily on slightly obscure and rather lame pop- 
 and nerd-culture references. The other part has to do with the voice acting, which is largely flat 
 and unremarkable. Even in the rare instances where enthusiasm is mustered for a line or two, none 
 of the actors seem to have much in the way of comic timing. The game often has characters repeating 
 the same tired lines again and again, as well.  

  Monster Madness comes encumbered with a gameplay design that is best described as cluttered. You 
 begin the game with just a simple melee weapon, but over time, you can buy and build a whole mess 
 of new weapons with the help of a friendly mechanic named Larry Tools, who pops up in various level 
 areas. Your weapons include everything from nail guns, shot guns, and tazers to rocket launchers, 
 CD launchers, and laser cannons. As nice as the weapon variety is, you actually need very few of 
 the weapons, save for very specific situations. You'll often find that it's more useful to upgrade 
 a few key weapons as opposed to buying everything that comes your way, especially because you'll 
 often need to switch between certain weapons quickly. If you've got a bunch of useless junk cluttering 
 up your inventory, it makes the scrolling process much more difficult. Fortunately, you can hotkey 
 a few weapons if necessary.  

  Combat might have been enjoyable if the controls were not so wonky. The control scheme on the PC 
 is manageable only because you can configure it as needed. On the Xbox 360, you have no such luck. 
 Attack buttons are mapped to the triggers, weapon scrolling is mapped to the bumpers, and to jump -- of 
 all things -- you have to click in the right stick. Considering how much time you spend with your 
 thumb on the right stick, that might sound like a good idea, but the stick button often seems unresponsive. 
 That becomes a spectacular frustration during the few bouts of platforming the game tosses at you, 
 which is made even more insane by the fact that the A and B buttons are just redundant weapon scrolling 
 options. Melee attacks are easy enough because all you have to do is hammer on the attack button 
 while enemies happen to be near you, but if you're still using melee attacks past the third or 
 fourth stage, you're doing something wrong. Weapons combat is OK, except that aiming tends to be 
 a bit of a chore. There's no target-locking feature, and moving the aiming reticle seems a bit 
 slow (and there's no mouse sensitivity adjuster in the PC version) . It's not that big of a deal 
 when you're just blasting away at big groupings of larger baddies, but any time you've got quick, 
 nimble enemies in front of you, hitting them is a severe pain.  

          Four-player co-op play sounds a lot more fun on paper than it is in execution. Blame the 
 camera.     

  Scratch that; the whole game is just a severe pain, especially if you're one of the unlucky folk 
 who happens to play the game all by your lonesome. This is one of those games that thinks being 
 really hard equates to being really fun. On the default difficulty level, the game becomes frustrating 
 only a few stages in because the number of enemies you're fending off happens to be massive and 
 because the game's checkpoint system is abysmal. You'll have to do multiple sequences all in one 
 line without getting killed, or you'll have to do them all over again. These are five-to-10-minute 
 chunks of the game too, and you'll be doing them several times each because of one crazy onslaught 
 of enemies or another. Boss fights are even more infuriating. If you set the game to the easiest 
 difficulty, it's more playable. It might be a little too easy, but you can get through it without 
 wanting to take a sledgehammer to the game.  

  What makes that aspect even more frustrating is that the game encourages you to explore the levels 
 as much as possible to find hidden parts for weapons. Larry uses these parts to build your upgraded 
 weapons, and there are tons of them scattered throughout the game. That's all well and good in 
 theory, but if you're being forced to replay big chunks of each level again and again because of 
 the stupid checkpoint system, why would you want to waste your time going back to explore the same 
 areas again only to lose all the items you just picked up? After a while, you'll stop picking up 
 any items you can't just grab easily along your normal path.     

  Of course, all of this more than likely has to do with the fact that this game feels like it was 
 designed to be played cooperatively with multiple people -- not by yourself. If you don't have a 
 group of friends you can bring to your house (the campaign isn't available to play cooperatively 
 online) , you're hosed, and you shouldn't play this game at all. If you can get some friends, you 
 might find Monster Madness a more amusing experience, albeit only slightly. The difficulty balance 
 is far better when playing with friends, though combat becomes infinitely clumsier when you've 
 got a bunch of people playing at once. If you're playing with three or four players, the camera 
 zooms back so far that you can barely tell what you're shooting at in most cases. The icons that 
 denote which player is which don't stand out enough amid the chaos, so you tend to lose sight of 
 your character as well. The sweet spot can be found by playing with two players, provided the two 
 of you can stay in the same general vicinity while fighting, but even then, the slow aiming and 
 chaotic battles still present an issue.  

          At least the monster designs are occasionally amusing.     

  The game attempts to break 
 up the long grind of combat with periodic vehicle sequences, and these are far better than any 
 of the standard fighting. You'll pilot ATVs, buggies, tanks, hovercraft, and even the occasional 
 giant mech suit. They're fun to play with, though the steering on most of the vehicles is awful. 
 In co-op mode, things get even crazier and are harder to keep track of if you and your friends 
 end up in vehicles that require you to drive separately.  

  All of this plays out over a roughly dozen-hour campaign. While longer games are generally welcome 
 in this day and age, this is one that could have used some trimming. Monster Madness has a really 
 poor sense of pacing. It forces you to sit through long bouts of seemingly endless combat, only 
 to then set you forth on an annoying fetch quest, which happens to be peppered with even more combat 
 sequences. Toward the end of the game, it's as if the developers just gave up on any concept of 
 structure and tried to stack as many boss fights or chase sequences as they possibly could without 
 the whole thing toppling over. The final boss goes through more forms than you could possibly ever 
 want to deal with, and before you even get to him, you'll have to go through a painful bout of 
 having to fight nearly every enemy type you've encountered in the game, in groups, in a row. If 
 you were to trim the fat off all the laborious sequences that go on for too long, you'd probably 
 cut a few hours off the game.  

  Apart from offline co-op play, the game does include competitive multiplayer options. You can play 
 the modes offline, via system link, or online. Online is the best bet because there are maps in 
 the online game that go up to 16 players. On Xbox Live, the multiplayer is an easy, breezy process. 
 If you jump into a ranked match or a player match, you can engage in deathmatch, king of the hill, 
 and capture the flag variants, either in free-for-all or team-based play. There's even a co-op 
 online mode, though it's just a series of monster fights that keeps going until someone dies. Some 
 of the maps are rather cramped, giving off a second-rate Power Stone vibe, but the larger maps 
 are more enjoyable, especially when you actually have a bunch of people playing. Aiming is still 
 a pain, but the camera issues are largely absent. It's not exactly the kind of multiplayer mode 
 that makes the game worth picking up all by itself, but it's a decent distraction. If you happen 
 to end up with the PC version, you're not going to have quite as much fun with it, mind you. There's 
 no server browser, so you'll have to know a host's IP address in order to play. It does have offline 
 play, but the player limit makes that less enjoyable.  

  Graphically, Monster Madness is kind of strange. You can't call the in-game visuals all that impressive 
 because the character animation and environment designs aren't much to look at, but the game does 
 toss a whole lot of enemies at you at once. Big chunks of the environment are also destructible -- or 
 at least moveable. So while you're blowing up zombie hordes, there are tables, chairs, and other 
 bric-a-brac scattered throughout the level that are also blowing all over the place. The frame 
 rate generally handles this OK when you're playing on your own, but as you add more players to 
 the mix, it tends to chug up badly. These issues plague both versions of the game, which look nearly 
 identical across the board. The saving grace is the game's art style, which mixes comic book-styled 
 cutscenes with some bizarre and occasionally amusing interpretations of all the various monster 
 bad guys. Some of them are lame, but there are a few amusing twists on some old favorites here. 

          The comic art cutscenes look nice -- too bad the characters have less personality than the 
 zombies they're killing.     

  Apart from the shoddy voice acting, the audio is hit and miss. The soundtrack mixes enough pipe 
 organs into the usual orchestral soundtracks to let you know that, yes, this game is creepy, kooky, 
 spooky, and altogether ooky. Most of the sound effects involve a lot of repeated monster moans 
 and explosion sounds, most of which at least partially drown out the bad dialogue. However, some 
 of it is mixed so ridiculously high that you couldn't drown it out if your life depended on it. 

  All told, Monster Madness: Battle for Suburbia feels like a wasted opportunity. The premise is 
 cool, and the combat seems like it has potential. However, the controls and lousy co-op camera 
 muck the whole thing up so that nearly all the fun is sucked out of it, regardless of how many 
 people play. Plus, as mildly amusing as the online multiplayer can be, it's absolutely criminal 
 that this game doesn't include some form of online campaign mode. Though considering how unwieldy 
 and awkward everything else in the game is, maybe that wouldn't have helped all that much.     
 
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (6 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: spectralmerc
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jul 21, 2007 6:37 am PT
Review:  After seeing this game at a game convention a couple of years ago, I started to forge some good 
 expectatives for it. The art direction was great, the premise was fun and the game had that old 
 skool feeling all over it.
  
  So, now that those 2 years have passed, it seems the game was released just as it was at that stage.
 
  
  Very well, since Im reviewing the PC version, I have to start with all the glitches that plagued 
 the installation. Not only the game doesn't create the folder in which it saves the game (meaning 
 you must create it manually if you want your progress to be remembered) but also the launcher is 
 non-functional in many PCs (for a fix, go to  After 
 you fix up this glaring omissions you find that the instructions have remained intact from the 
 X360. Yes, we find ON PC VERSION, that we need to push A to continue and B to go back. Even the 
 voiced game instructions talk about game sticks and triggers, with a written instruction that states 
 the real controls for the game.
  
  However, once those things are accounted for, you find a nice, fun game. Maybe the Unreal Engine 
 3 wasn't the best choice for a game where detail is very, very far away from the view, but the 
 lighting and shadows, as well as post processing and most textures are rightfully done, and are 
 pleasant to the eye. Major kudos go to the Art Direction team, who managed to give all the monsters 
 and characters a charming comic feel, as well as making a very cool comic form cinematics.
  
  But thats the first impression. When you start playing, you find yourself trapped in a terribly 
 limiting camera. There is no zoom other than the zoom the game wants to apply, and if you change 
 to the other camera, youll find yourself lost in a matter of seconds. You can drive vehicles too, 
 and they are fun to drive... if the camera wouldnt ruin it. You see, most vehicles are introduced 
 in a special sequence and the camera is so awkward in those sequences that there will be moments 
 youll be yelling at the screen NOT THAT WAY IDIOT! . But then youll get over it and everything 
 will be fine.
  
  Because the core of the game (wasting zombies and other creepy crawlies) is blasting fun, with 
 Nx PhysX so that everything blows up as it should. There are guns a plenty and the hunt for pieces 
 to build them, while a bit tedious at times, never becomes a chore.
  
  Which lead us to the platforming part. Good thing you can remap key bindings because otherwise 
 those parts would be impossible. However, there is no sensitivity slider, so, unless you got a 
 Logitech G5 or a Razer Copperhead, you are trapped with the game's sensitivity. However, it isnt 
 that wild. The jumping sections arent as common as they could have been, though, and I thank the 
 designers for that.
  
  What I don't thank are the terribly difficult settings. In other than the lowest difficulty, the 
 game is indeed a monster madness. Youll get overwhelmed in seconds, and because there are monsters 
 fast and slow at the screen, your skillz will be put to test. But if you feel up to the task, then 
 it can be good fun.
  
  One last quirk: The game wont save your progress mid-game. Not only are you restricted to checkpoints 
 during the game, but if you need to stop playing for a while, you are going to have to restart 
 the level. Wouldnt be a problem if the levels werent so large, but they are and sometimes can be 
 a pain.
  
  As bottomline, I woulndt recommend this game to buy right now. When is on the bargain bin, maybe. 
 Until then, you can skip it off. However, if you enjoy turn-your-head-off zombie blasting fun, 
 this game MIGHT do it for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: musicaz70
Rating: 2.4
Date: Jul 4, 2007 9:45 pm PT
Review:  yep, its just one of those stupid games. you've probably played this already if you were between 
 the age of 7-12 between the era of the ps1, n64 and early xbox games =P. i remember renting this 
 kind of crap every weekend with 2 or 3 of my friends for a sleepover and going through the co-op 
 and beating it in a night.. it was cute then, but seriously, games are $60 now -.- now isn't the 
 time to be wasting money. and if you cn't get M games this is still no excuse to buy it.. overall 
 just junk, this is a HD version of those games you see in the WOW $5 bin at your wallmart
  
  [btw where i played this was at my little cousins] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: huannguyen_105
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jun 21, 2007 1:08 pm PT
Review:  Well ... 5.1 might be a little too low for the game, I would say 6.3
  It is a fun game, you got everything you need to kill a bore night at home, colorful stuffs and 
 bunch of battles make you stick your eyes on the screen for at least few hours. But, the game is 
 not quite a good game to look for. It got a good story line but game play is not cool. You are 
 stuck in levels, trying to beat all the zombies in the level, get all the tools (such as tapes, 
 nails, etc.) for the weapons you desire, solve some puzzle and then go on to the next level. Basically, 
 that's what you do in the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rj5958
Rating: 4.7
Date: Jun 18, 2007 4:44 pm PT
Review:  I've been a long time fan of Hunter: The Reckoning (series) on XBOX and I loved Smash TV but when 
 I played this game on the PC I was shocked to find how bad it was. Why is it bad? Here's the list:
 
  
  Controls are really buggy. Sometimes you throw a grenade a couple seconds later the character suddenly 
 throws a grenade on their own. This can be very annoying since if you're in an enclosed space you 
 can blow yourself up because of this control issue. I'm not sure this is a widespread issue but 
 as I've been playing it, I just had to do without grenades (or molotovs) .
  
  Like the gamespot review said, the checkpoint system is very frustrating. The premise of getting 
 weapons is to collect a certain amount of parts and then get it to Larry Tools. If somehow you 
 get mobbed by a bunch of monsters or get killed by the grenade glitch (while you've just collected 
 every ingredient) you're screwed.
  
  The PC version doesn't have co-op online play, which just killed it for me.
  
  If it weren't 
 for the terrible buggy controls I'd give it a 7. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ProgZmax
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jun 17, 2007 7:53 am PT
Review:  I will begin by stating quite clearly that I enjoy top-down action/adventure games. My favorite 
 levels in the SNES version of Contra were the overhead levels. I will also state that I absolutely 
 love horror films and horror themes in games -- if they are properly executed. Does this game measure 
 up to my exacting standards?
  
  Yes and no. I've never been a graphics-crazy person (I value substance above style) but this game 
 certainly doesn't stretch the Unreal 3 engine's muscles; this makes me wonder exactly why the game 
 runs so poorly compared to more recent (and much more visually compelling) games like Oblivion. 
 Monster Madness tries to take an old school concept and bring it to 3D, but the result is something 
 of a mixed bag.
  
  Story: It's your standard kids vs. the forces of evil scenario; we've seen it in movies like Monster 
 Squad and The Faculty, we've even played it in games like Zombies Ate My Neighbors -- a game Monster 
 Madness borrows extremely liberally from, but not without admitting it. One of the main problems 
 with the story is that they couldn't seem to focus on one concept and decided to throw every kind 
 of monster ever conceived into one game and the result makes you feel like they were trying too 
 hard. The four characters: Zack, Carrie, Andy, and Jennifer are extreme stereotypes of the nerd, 
 the wacko goth chick, the cool skater dude and the preppy stuck up babe. Aside from their random 
 quips, however, they all play alike.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are suitable with a top-down approach to gameplay. You can opt for bloom 
 and post-processing effects, though they only seem to make everything fuzzy whether there's sunlight 
 or not.
  
  Gameplay: The objective of each level is basically to make your way through it, collecting a multitude 
 of parts for Larry Tools to make better weaponry and fighting weird bosses, like a group of pirate 
 ships or a grandma with killer cats. Jumping is a real chore because you really can't jump high 
 enough for it to feel useful and you instead spend time stacking up boxes and other items to get 
 parts -- or else you just leave them there and move on. At any point (other than monster madness 
 mode) you can press a key to switch the camera to fixed mode so you can rotate your character around 
 to attack enemies coming from all sides. While this feature is nice at times it is also a pain 
 since the game tends to slow down when large number of zombies are on screen and it affects your 
 ability to rotate. Aiming is also a bit more difficult in this mode. The four characters play exactly 
 the same, so don't expect Andy to be able to jump higher or Jennifer to run faster. Some variation 
 here aside from their looks would have made sense. Later on you can drive vehicles, though for 
 the most part they are only useful if you co-op play.
  
  Sound: The music is campy and appropriate and the theme tune is catchy without being annoying. 
 The character voices are appropriate and their comments are sometimes amusing depending on who 
 you use.
  
  Overall: Monster Madness borrows liberally from Zombies Ate My Neighbors as well as from horror 
 culture, and its not without flaws. The graphics aren't quite up to current gaming standards (and 
 I mention this for the simple fact that the performance is somewhat poor compared to much better 
 looking games) , the story is hackneyed and the characters are wholly unoriginal. There is an enjoyable 
 game here, however, especially for die hard horror/comedy fans or fans of games like Zombies Ate 
 My Neighbors as long as you don't expect too much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zigmars_r
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 14, 2007 6:04 am PT
Review:  Graphics are from Unreal technology ... must be some 2 or 3 years old engine because I expected 
 more from Unreal. There are some rag doll physics - I noticed it mostly on dead bodies. There are 
 missions where you have to use vehicle with 4 seats and driver can not use weapons so you change 
 seats (takes a couple of seconds) to kill monsters and then go back to the wheel. You can not use 
 any shortcuts because game is full of invisible walls (even on roofs) . Jumping is clumsy and getting 
 on roofs and other places takes time. If you want good weapons you have to collect various stuff 
 scattered all around which takes most of the playing time. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
