-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Monster Truck Madness 2
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/driving/monstertruckmadness2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May 20, 1998
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.4
Critic Score: 7.6, 2 Review (s)
User Score: 7.6, 210 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Microsoft Game Studios
Developer: Terminal Reality
Genre: Rally / Offroad Racing
Date:     Apr 30, 1998

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The designers wisely recognized that the subtlety of monster truck racing cried out for the added 
 nuance that only a professional wrestling tie-in could bestow. 

 Sure, it's the Beverly Hillbillies equivalent of sports, but face it, getting into a truck cab perched 
 atop four ludicrously gigantic tires to skid, plow, and roll through sand, mud, and other slop 
 is not without its appeal. Microsoft's Monster Truck Madness was an improbable success and its 
 sequel, Monster Truck Madness 2, is just as likely to get gamers to listen to their inner Bubba 
 and take those garish big rigs out for a spin.  

 Monster Truck Madness 2 improves upon the original by throwing in nine new trucks, eleven new tracks, 
 and an honest-to-goodness sports license. The designers wisely recognized that the subtlety of 
 monster truck racing cried out for the added nuance that only a professional wrestling tie-in could 
 bestow. The resulting WCW and NWO license means gamers can drive rigs based on the likes of Stinger 
 and the Outlaws as well as receive a hearty FMV victory salute from Hulk Hogan himself. This time 
 around the trucks also sport deformable bodies to reflect the pounding they take during races. 

 While Monster Truck Madness 2 does have a limited garage feature to modify your truck, nobody's 
 going to confuse this with Grand Prix II - the focus here is squarely on straightforward, arcade-type 
 action. Monster trucks aren't exactly precision machines, so while you might not experience the 
 adrenaline rush of high-speed racing, you'll be busy struggling to keep at least two wheels on 
 the ground as you slide, skid, and spin through every race. Owners of force feedback joysticks 
 will face a happy extra obstacle in their fight to control these unwieldy mechanized beasts. Monster 
 Truck Madness 2 considerately provides three skill levels and an option for automatic gear shifting, 
 allowing you to take your time getting used to the slippery bouncing mayhem that dominates races. 

 Monster Truck Madness 2 has a good mix of both rally and circuit tracks, including the obligatory 
 romp through oil derricks, a tropical island laced with water hazards, and a happy jaunt through 
 a lightning-torn graveyard, complete with caskets. Most tracks feature harrowing jumps and encourage 
 a healthy dose of cheating. As long as you hit your checkpoints, feel free to ignore the track 
 and set your own path. Races can be customized with variable weather conditions - including rain, 
 snow, dense fog, and more - for an extra challenge. And while you can challenge the computer in 
 a race setting, you can't try to beat it in the new multiplayer-only Summit Rumble, a monster truck 
 version of King of the Hill. Too bad, because the Rumble is a gas.  

 While 3D acceleration isn't required to run the game, playing it on the minimum machine will force 
 you to shut off features to get it to run at an acceptable rate. That said, 3D acceleration is 
 a must if you really want to enjoy Monster Truck Madness 2. A Direct3D-compatible card will get 
 you a great frame rate as well as a bucketload of eye candy including reflective water, beautiful 
 sky effects, and the lovingly detailed truck textures. To really enjoy Monster Truck Madness 2's 
 cool graphics, set a race for "pitch black" and ogle at the graceful sweep of headlights careening 
 through the track.   

 Monster Truck Madness 2 isn't perfect, even as an arcade racer. While it logs best race and lap 
 times for every track, a career or simple season mode would have been a welcome addition. But if 
 you've an itch for wild, fender-busting racing action, Monster Truck Madness 2 might be just the 
 thing to scratch it.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: speed_ballz
Rating: 6
Date: May 8, 2008 6:58 am PT
Review:  As with many movies and video games, MTM2 sufferred from the sophomore slump syndrome, or 'SLS'. 
 In May 1998, two years after the release of Monster Truck Madness, the second version, Monster 
 Truck Madness 2, appeared to offer huge improvements. The same developer of the first MTM (Terminal 
 Velocity) was again behind the wheel for this new version. However, those improvements were merely 
 artificial, imo.
  
  Where MTM2 went wrong was mostly all related to its gameplay, notably the physics. It was the physics, 
 or the semblance of actually driving a monster truck, that made the first MTM shine. That version's 
 graphics were also apparently good for the time, along with a decent difficulty level (at least 
 if the singleplayer mode were set to 'Professional') . But with MTM2, I feel that the developers 
 got it all wrong. Rather than keeping or improving upon the original physics engine, they completely 
 changed it somehow for the worse. Rather than feeling like I was driving a huge, fat-tired behemoth 
 on nitro, I got the impression that I was piloting a lumbering Lazyboy reclining chair. The feeling 
 was just not there. Also, for some inexplicable reason, they mucked up the racer's perspective, 
 i. e., the race cam. I found the cab of the truck (set to the default chase setting) to interfere 
 with my ability to see the track properly. Ultimately, I fiddled with the different views and found 
 none of them to be satisfactory. 
  
  Where MTM2 got it right was in the vastly improved graphics and additional trucks and racetracks. 
 The sound was another big improvement; the revving engines sound spot on to me. And with the second 
 version, we're treated to damage modeling effects, which were nicely done for the time. But these 
 things alone don't make for a great game. Something the original MTM was and still is. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maester-Slayer
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 13, 2006 9:41 am PT
Review:  This game is extremely addicting. From hard core online races to hard core online rumbles. But 
 its not all about online. Even offline it can be fun too, but stock tracks and comptuer trucks 
 don't offer much challenge to a skilled racer.
  And I mean stock tracks because this is one of the few games that allows you to make your own tracks. 
 now of course you can use microsofts Tracked2. exe program to do it, but there is also many fan 
 made programs that can perform the job better. you can also make custom trucks. At present there 
 is 4067 known tracks and 4943 known trucks. And this number is always growing. Even today this 
 game continues to live. visit cownap (mtm2. com) for most of you addon and community needs. The 
 community is so deep and dedicated, there is even tournaments. And even though MSN gaming shut 
 down its support for CD rom games. You can still play MTM2 at world gaming center and battleHQ, 
 game spy, and many other places were this game continues to live.
  
  Lag is also an issue in this game like all others. But the term lag often is used in place of a 
 different word (s) . Bad physics. This game has horrible physics. You can lightly bump a person and 
 have yourself shot off the map! In a rumble, two trucks can get inside of eachother. Of course 
 resulting in a hue crash sending one or both trucks hurling around the world a few times.
  
  It seems they played with the game engine. So in order to adjust weight transfer, it depends 
 on if you are hitting gas or brakes. but its opposite of what you might think.
  
  Example, to perform a wheelie. When landing on yoru rear wheels and you are almost standing straight 
 up. land with your brakes on, you will wheelie for a long time. Hit the gas to stop your wheelie. 
 if you land face first into something, dont hit your gas, hit your brakes, this will lower your 
 back end.
  
  Basically, brakes lowers your back end and gas lowers you front end.
  
  The other thing, you can almost climb a 90 degree hill ha-ha. Unlike the original, the helicopter 
 can now release you where you want (this could be done in the original by mashing the H key) but 
 the helicopter will only pick you up if you are on your wheels. Which is usually when you don't 
 need it. The result, you fall into a hole to small for your truck and continuously keep rolling 
 over in hit, and you cant hit the H key because you aren't on your wheels. You just keep mashing 
 it until it auto resets you and for a brief instant you are upright.
  
  Despite is flaws, this game is wicked fun and I recommend any racing or offroading fan to try it. 
 And of course drag racing fans can join drag racing leagues and there is plent of drag racing tracks 
 to choose from.
  
  Gameplay - Very good, except for the odd physics
  Graphics - above average for the time
  Soun - Decent, but sound options lead you to believe that 
 the sound is a higher quality than it actually is. All music is recorded in 8 bit mono even though 
 you can set the game music to play at 16 bit stereo or even suround sound.
  Value - Great, endless tracks and trucks. Endless places to explore. Great community to be a part 
 of.
  Reviwer's Tilt - I love monster trucks!!!!!!! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
