-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Mortyr 2093 - 1944
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/mortyr20931944/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan 26, 2000
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 3
Critic Score: 4.5, 23 Review (s)
User Score: 5.2, 126 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Interplay
Developer: Mirage Interactive
Genre: Action
Date:     Dec 31, 1999
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It's boring, it's unoriginal, and it doesn't even live up to the eight-year-old game it's attempting 
 to copy. 

 Few concepts are as inseparable as time travel and the Third Reich. No matter what the ultimate 
 destination, your average time traveler will at least consider stopping off to kill Hitler. Mortyr, 
 by Polish developer Mirage Media, is a first-person shooter about traveling through time to kill 
 Nazis. You'd think it's a can't-miss idea; Nazis are second only to vicious alien bugs as an enemy 
 everyone can agree to hate, and the time travel element means, if nothing else, you should be able 
 to exact a sweet, punishing revenge with your futuristic superweapons. But Mortyr manages to get 
 almost everything wrong. It's a toss-up as to whether the game is terrible by design or just half-finished. 

 In Mortyr, you go back in time to change the results of World War II. Oddly, you're not trying to 
 alter the fact that the Nazis won the conflict and now control the world but instead are attempting 
 to fix the weather they inadvertently screwed up. It's as if the developers thought a future ruled 
 by the Third Reich wasn't reason enough to revise the past. The story is disposable though. Other 
 than a few paragraphs in the manual and some in-game book items that provide several sentences 
 of extra plot, you'll have no sense that anything resembling a story is progressing over the course 
 of the game.  

 Mortyr follows the exact structure put in place by id Software's seminal first-person shooter, Wolfenstein 
 3D: move forward, gather munitions and health, kill Nazis and their pet dogs, then collect a key 
 to unlock the next area where you'll do exactly the same thing. Unfortunately, Mortyr's similarity 
 to Wolfenstein runs no deeper than its structure. In its time, Wolfenstein was effective because 
 it was original, technologically innovative, and fun. Mortyr is none of these things.  

 Mirage created its own 3D engine for the game, and if you absolutely had to pick Mortyr's best feature, 
 that's it. Even Mortyr's detractors, which should include anyone who has ever played or will ever 
 play Mortyr, must grudgingly admit that the game sometimes looks good. A few of the levels have 
 some impressive visuals, such as a high-ceilinged cathedral with a reflective floor. The mood is 
 appropriately grim - there are lots of thick stone walls adorned with plenty of Nazi paraphernalia. 
 But the graphics lack enough variety to keep them interesting all the way, or even part of the 
 way, to the end. The switch from 1944 to 2093, which occurs about halfway through the game, fails 
 to enliven the proceedings. Mortyr's future looks amazingly like Mortyr's past with a few neon 
 swastikas. It's too bad the developers didn't extend Mortyr's graphical sameness to the game's 
 frame rate, which is erratic to say the least. It's as if every few steps you're mired up to your 
 neck in a thick, invisible fluid, then released for a moment, then submerged again. Regardless 
 of whether this problem is the fault of the engine or the level design, it makes Mortyr more tedious 
 to play.  

 The weapons are completely forgettable. The game's arsenal is a mix of pistols, rifles, automatic 
 weapons, and grenades. There are a few futuristic weapons. However, belying one of the main attractions 
 of going back in time, you don't get to use them against the World War II-era Nazis. It wouldn't 
 have been very satisfying even if you did, since the futuristic weapons are basically just the 
 traditional guns with blue bullets. Mortyr does boast one weapon-related innovation: You don't 
 actually shoot where your gun is pointed. Hitting even a stationary target often requires that 
 you aim your gun several inches to the left of it, which makes the game much more challenging. 
 Maybe it's a bug.  

 That brings us to Mortyr's worst feature, the enemy artificial intelligence. Rather than model your 
 opponents' behaviors on the smart Nazis who imperiled the world with their evil schemes, Mirage 
 chose to simulate the Nazis who didn't know Hogan escaped every night to blow up their bridges 
 and go to dinner parties. When they spot you, your enemies in Mortyr have a tendency to react by 
 running back and forth in a tight circuit until you shoot them. There's no polite way to put it: 
 It's embarrassing.  

 Mortyr supports up to 16 players in deathmatch, capture the flag, and cooperative play over the 
 Internet. The only thing that distinguishes its particular multiplayer mode from every other implementation 
 of exactly the same multiplayer features is that it's attached to a much, much worse game.  

 It's usually a reviewer's goal to present a balanced opinion, but in the case of a game like Mortyr, 
 there really isn't any point in trying to dredge up a few redeeming qualities. There's no reason 
 you should play Mortyr for free, much less have to purchase it. It's boring, it's unoriginal, and 
 it doesn't even live up to the eight-year-old game it's attempting to copy. At least it gives us 
 one more reason to hate Nazis: Without them, Mortyr might never have been made.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (3 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: JOE714
Rating: 4.8
Date: Nov 1, 2006 1:11 pm PT
Review:  As much as I love first-person shooters, Mortyr was (and definitely still is) a remarkably awful 
 game. When I first played Mortyr several years ago, I was beguiled by the amount of detail that 
 appeared in each levels architecture, particularly the futuristic cityscapes in the games flash-forward 
 segments set in 2093. Mirage Interactives homegrown engine sported some excellent and well-used 
 lighting effects and reflective surfaces. Panes of glass cracked and crumbled in an incomparably 
 realistic fashion. Cathedrals and factories alike were rendered with an appreciable attention to 
 detail, almost as though the engine was originally conceived as architectural CAD software rather 
 than a venue for gaming.
  
  Perhaps Mirage shouldve looked further into marketing Mortyr as a tool for designing virtual building 
 walkthroughs, because the games locales appear to be the only aspect of the game that was fully 
 realized. Mortyrs combat mechanics are deadly dull and astonishingly frustrating in equal measure. 
 Enemy soldiers wriggle and dash left and right, then stop and ping the player with a direct hit 
 with every single shot. To be fair, Mortyr wasnt the only game released in the late 90s and early 
 00s in which the enemy AI was so dumb its aim was perfect. Even big titles like Kingpin -- which 
 was released at around the same time as Mortyr -- failed to encode an essential touch of imperfection 
 in its computer opponents skill with a weapon; distance, motion, and the type of firearm used 
 made no differenceif the player was visible, that player got shot. In Mortyr, a handful of spastic 
 Nazis can reduce Sebastian to a bloody pulp across a wide field full of obstacles before the hero 
 can even draw a bead on them.
  
  Jiggly Germans aside, I was never quite clear on exactly what Sebastian was trying to accomplish 
 throughout the course of the game. Thinning the ranks of the Third Reich is usually enough of an 
 excuse to lay hands on a Schmeisser, but the smattering of diary entries and personal notes that 
 I occasionally found in conspicuous locations kept hinting at more of a story than was actually 
 presented. It wasnt long after Sebastian made his leap back to the future that I completely forgot 
 about the weather-controlling alien artifact; the move from 1944 to 2093 was, by that point in 
 the game, just an excuse to shoot some Nazi robots.
  
  I did enjoy the design and function of the futuristic weapons, even if most of them were simply 
 copies of the WWII-era guns. I also enjoyed the periodic snippets of written clues that I mentioned 
 earlier, even if they amounted to nothing. That zero-sum appeal even applies to Mortyrs beautiful 
 appearance versus its lack of proper function. Anyone who looks back on this old title with any 
 degree of fondness probably remembers it for its architecture and not for their distaste at trying 
 to gun down an elite soldier while he joggles around like a caffeinated ferret. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeus_gb
Rating: 3
Date: May 15, 2006 11:19 am PT
Review:  I hate to trash any game but this is awful!
  
  The graphics for the time were awful. At the time it was released we'd already had game like Unreal, 
 Unreal Tournament, Serious Sam, Quake II etc etc... what were the developers thinking??? I know 
 it was a budget game but there's budget and there's just don't bother releasing it to the world 
 budget. Now which one do you think this is?
  
  The levels were very dull with nothing out of the ordinary going on it them. 
  It was just one 
 level after the other, all the levels have little variety and are forgettable!
  
  The AI was so bad it was laughable. The AI of course would respond to sight and sounds but by running 
 backwards and forwards. Hmmmm
  
  The sound was below standard and the music when you first hear it makes you scream hysterically 
 and scramble to the sound options.
  
  Now to the bugs and the main bug was just unforgivable!
  The game would slow down to an absolute 
 crawl for no reason and the developer even admitted to it but did nothing to fix it.
  There was also problems with the copyright protection as well. LOL LOL LOL... copyright protection 
 on this game.... what was the point.
  Anyway it wouldn't install if you were using a DVD drive or a CD drive that wasn't the first CD/DVD 
 drive in the system.
  
  Avoid this game like the plague! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: twocars
Rating: 3.3
Date: May 12, 2006 9:08 am PT
Review:  Not so bad, or.....
  
  The first ime I played Mortyr, I found it different than many other FPS out there. Even to the 
 extent that I can say that I kind of liked it. 
  
  Looking back now, I think part of the reason was the difficulty, or to be frank, the lack of it. 
 Not being the best FPS player in the world, having almost no experience with the genre, it was 
 a dream to play through. No challenge what so ever. The A. I. in this game is so laughably bad, 
 conveying it properly, proves difficult. 
  I will give it a shot , though. Mortyr is to intelligence as water to electricity. Not a good combination.
 
  
  The graphics has always played a secondary role for me, gameplay is more important.. Yet, every 
 once in a while, even I can say stuff like: "Damn, this is one ugly game." I have to admit, when 
 I played through it, I didn't care much about the visuals, but when I decided to return, it was 
 quite clear that the graphics were dated. Some games age well, Mortyr didn't. And don't get me 
 started on all the glitches and bugs. 
  
  The sound was also below par, standard sounds and effects. Forgettable music. Enough.
  
  The 
 sad thing is that this game at first appears to be better than its individual parts, but in the 
 end, that was only an illusion. 
  
  Now I am just angry that it stole some hours from my life. Unforgivable! 
  
  Yes, Mortyr, RIP. 
 Rot In Purgatory!
  
  CCH
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
