-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Mortyr 2
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/mortyr2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Better than the original.
 Cheap.
 A few decent set-piece battles.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Still not that terrific.
 Terrible multiplayer.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 10, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.1
Critic Score: 5.6, 5 Review (s)
User Score: 5.5, 160 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Hip Games
Developer: Mirage Interactive
Genre: Sci-Fi First-Person...
Date:     Mar 4, 2005
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
For a game from the same people who brought you such memorable stinkpots as Mortyr and the transcendentally 
 lousy Sniper: Path of Vengeance, Mortyr 2 is actually a semi-competent piece of work. 

  It's hard to believe that five years have passed since the original Mortyr came out. It's even 
 harder to believe that after the chilly reception the awful original received half a decade ago, 
 somebody decided to fund, design, program, and release a sequel. Now brace yourself for the  really 
  hard to believe part: The result isn't all bad. Let's qualify that. For a game from the same people 
 who brought you such memorable stinkpots as Mortyr and the transcendentally lousy Sniper: Path 
 of Vengeance, Mortyr 2 is actually a semi-competent piece of work. As far as budget-priced shooters 
 go, you could do a lot worse... like choosing any of Mirage Interactive's previous games, for instance. 

          A rare shot of the Nazi death chopper not spontaneously exploding.     

  The one area of the game where you couldn't possibly do any worse, however, is its multiplayer. 
 Mortyr wasn't exactly a powerhouse in this respect, yet the sequel doesn't even live up to its 
 predecessor's meager standard. All  one  of the multiplayer modes are accessed through a separate 
 desktop launch screen. This brings you to a drab, sad-looking little dialog box where you can choose 
 to host any of the game's measly four deathmatch maps or join a LAN game in progress. You can also 
 connect to an Internet server, assuming you know its IP, that is. In one of the game's rare returns 
 to classic Mortyr "D'oh!" form, there's no built-in server browser, a feature that was pretty standard 
 in even crappy low-budget shooters from the Mortyr 1 era.  

  Once you discount the feeble attempt at multiplayer, it's all more or less uphill. The original's 
 single-player campaign featured time travel and took place half in 1943 and half in 2093. The sequel 
 abandons this science-fictional element in favor of a more straightforward World War II theme. 
 You play Sven Mortyr, evidently a distant relative of the first game's time-hopping Sebastian Mortyr. 
 This time around, instead of inventing a temporal vortex to steal weather-controlling mystical 
 artifacts from the future, the Nazis are merely building a honking big rocket. Though the devious 
 plan has gotten a whole lot less ambitious, they're still Nazis, so it's still your job to stop 
 them.  

  The game's 11 levels take place in a standard variety of World War II environments. Among other 
 familiar sites, there's a cathedral, a train station, some nondescript (though effectively foliaged) 
 European countryside, a well-defended mansion, a bridge, and a supersecret Nazi base. None of it's 
 very surprising, but it doesn't look half bad. The engine does a decent enough job of rendering 
 both big outdoor environments and reasonably cluttered and atmospherically lighted interiors. It's 
 no Half-Life 2, but there are enough little visual details to save the game from that cheap, threadbare 
 look common to budget shooters.  

  Some welcome variety in level design and generally intense firefights also help keep the game from 
 sinking into total mediocrity. Taking a lesson from more-recent WWII shooters, the developer has 
 tossed in some on-rails levels, some defense-of-an-area tasks, and even a few controllable vehicles. 
 These vehicles inspire one of the best levels, during which you must drive a small train through 
 a Nazi-infested stretch of Yugoslavia, occasionally jumping out to clear an area on foot.  

  Unfortunately, the vehicles also prompt the game's worst moment. At one point, you pilot an ultralight 
 helicopter-ish thing, which would be terrific except that it's absurdly touchy to control and tends 
 to explode without any provocation. It's beyond aggravating. Luckily, even though by all appearances 
 the game requires you to use the rickety death trap to advance, you can actually ignore it and 
 simply walk to your final destination. Scripting error? Who knows? If it's an unintended bypass, 
 Mortyr 2 even has better bugs than the original.  

          One of the game's surprisingly well-done firefights.     

  Speaking of which, Mortyr's 
 legendarily broken enemy artificial intelligence has been mended to the point where, like most 
 things in the sequel, it's more or less worthy of being included in a professional game. The Nazis 
 aren't supergeniuses, but they'll at least duck behind cover, occasionally retreat, hold their 
 positions while chucking well-aimed grenades at you, and generally make themselves credible nuisances. 
 The sheer number of them that you're often confronted with adds an extra layer of intensity to 
 many firefights as well.  

  So except for the pathetic multiplayer (and a clangorous orchestral soundtrack that won't shut 
 up) , Mortyr 2 is a qualified success. For a budget shooter, it's a slightly above average eight-hour 
 ride. For a Mortyr sequel, it's an improbable Colossus of Rhodes-style feat of engineering.    
  
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (3 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: ng2006
Rating: 4.2
Date: Aug 14, 2007 6:21 am PT
Review:  This game is a real bu11$hit. I've not any thing more stupid than this. Everything was terrible. 
 Graphics, Storyline, character and model and weapon design, gameplay ...
  It demands high graphic device but there's nothing in it. You feel really stupid when you draw 
 a weapon. For example when you draw your knife you don't really know if it's an axe or a piece 
 of wood or a knife. Other weapons are more stupid and worse in design than this.
  Models and AIs are terrible. Other objects are the same. Another terrible thing about this software 
 is it's sound. It WAS terrible. I couldn't hear any qualified sound out of that even after having 
 a fight with my speakers!!!
  I do NOT recommend you to buy it @ all. It'd be the most horrible FPS ever made in the world. I 
 want my money back quickly! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JOE714
Rating: 7.2
Date: Nov 2, 2006 1:26 pm PT
Review:  Back when it was released in 1999, the original Mortyr was full of broad good/bad contrasts. Foremost 
 among the problems found in Mirage Interactives freshman FPS title was the fact that even though 
 the games combination of historical and futuristic city environments looked great on my old Pentium 
 2, the effort of negotiating each area was tricky due to some uniquely bizarre movement issues: 
 the  slowdowns that many other players noted, as well. Even though 
 the game provided plenty of arms and ammo for laying waste to all opposition, enemy soldiers moved 
 twice as fast as any human should, and in a ridiculous jerky pattern that made drawing a proper 
 bead on them more frustrating than fun. The 149-year time shift that occurred about two-thirds 
 of the way through Mortyr was represented well visually, but I was never once entirely certain 
 of just why it happened or what I was supposed to do while visiting Sebastians past-altered present. 
 That last contradiction is only a minor quibble, however; back in the late 90s, the story-driven 
 model perfected in Half-Life was still somewhat anomalous among games that simply dropped the player 
 into a large level and left him to find his own color-coded key to the exit.
  
  Mortyr 2 reflects a marked improvement over the earlier title, with a less convoluted storyline 
 and a more satisfying combat model. The graphics engine can render both massive landscapes and 
 proximate details very well, with only a few framerate drops on my mid-range rig. I especially 
 enjoyed the snowy, aurora-tinged fields of northern Europe and the idyllic, vibrant meadows of 
 Yugoslavia for the scenery, and the uphill battle outside of the monastery for its tricky and bloody 
 firefights. One major gripe I discovered in M2s combat mechanics had to do with its grenades, 
 which produced an astonishingly high degree of damage within a huge blast radius. The grenades 
 were difficult to both see and hear  the only sure way to prepare for the heavy-duty impairment 
 they promised was to actually witness a German soldier in the act of throwing one, or to simply 
 keep moving in an erratic pattern  so I repeatedly found myself blown skyward without any warning. 
 The grenade issue was a double-edged sword, however; my opponents were just as susceptible to their 
 concussive charms, so I used the potato-mashers more in Mortyr 2 than in any other WWII-style game 
 and never found myself wanting for supplies.
  
  M2s rail-based segments were a mixed bag. Although Svens improbable laps around some German barracks 
 in the back of a stolen Volkswagen rigged with an MG-34 were a lot of destructive fun, the (thankfully 
 optional) ride aboard an incredibly fragile ultralight whirlybird was a poorly-realized joke. Other 
 scenarios like Svens scramble through enemy trenches in the midst of a deafening standoff on the 
 eastern front and the close-quarters exchange of lead in the otherwise mellow candlelit monastery 
 were a lot of fun and a far, far cry from the wretched, blind luck-fueled clashes that tainted 
 the original Mortyr.
  
  I dont recall Mortyr 2s initial MSRP, but I nabbed it from the bargain bin for $15 shortly after 
 its release last year. Although the game is appropriately sized for its low-end cost with only 
 11 levels, almost every area is huge and requires roughly forty-five minutes to an hour to cover 
 thoroughly (more if you dont watch out for the stealthy and catastrophic grenades) . This title 
 is recommended for anyone who truly loves shooters whatever their milieu, particularly for any 
 players who scorched their central nervous system while stumbling unhappily through the original 
 in 1999, as Svens exploits do much to restore honor to the Mortyr family name. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ufopuller
Rating: 5.2
Date: Sep 17, 2005 2:48 pm PT
Review:  The author was basing his decision to purchase this game on the fact that the original Mortyr was 
 an acceptable FPS. This game leaves too much to be desired. The game is by HIP, which the author 
 never heard of to begin with. Having installed the game next was customizing the controls to the 
 way the author plays all PC games. The video had to run at the lowest possible setting or the action 
 was worst than slow motion. However, for some unknown reason, mid-way through the second or third 
 mission, action sped up to an acceptable level regardless of the video setting.
  
  Weapons are typical of WWII. However, the use of them varies greatly. No matter where the enemy 
 is shot, it would still take a number of well placed hits to down anyone. Usually, one well placed 
 head shot should do, but it is as though the weaponry is not sighted-in. There are vehicles to 
 travel in and stationary guns to operate. This is surely trial and error as to how to operate these 
 additional goodies found along the way. As an example, helicopters fly, but not up (at least not 
 as far as the author can enable them to traverse)
  
  Objectives are not always clear. Vague objectives leave one wandering around the countryside waiting 
 for something to happen (now, is that fun?) . If one finally wanders into a position where the enemy 
 is firing, chances are that is the way the game wants the player to go.
  
  Saving the game can be done with the F5 key or from the main menu, but it would appear that not 
 all saves are at the position the gamer is actually at. This was quite the steep learning curve 
 (compared to other games) . Having recently been hospitalized may have "tilted" the author's opinion 
 of this game. With time off from responsibilities, this was the next new game to occupy the author's 
 time. The game was to fill that niche, but it seems to lack one key ingredient, which is fun. The 
 author was looking for amusement, but did not find it in Mortyr 2.
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
