-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: MotoGP 2
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/driving/motogp2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun  6, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.7
Critic Score: 8.2, 9 Review (s)
User Score: 8.1, 291 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: THQ
Developer: Climax Group
Genre: Motorcycle Racing
Date:     May 21, 2003 &raquo;  
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
MotoGP2 for the PC falls short of its potential. 

  In response to the runaway success of the original MotoGP for the Xbox, THQ decided to bring the 
 next game in the series to both the PC and the Xbox. The original game featured accurate and accessible 
 controls, stunning visuals, and a dynamic racing experience, and the Xbox version of the sequel 
 managed to improve on the outstanding original in every way. The PC version of MotoGP 2, on the 
 other hand, shows signs of being perhaps a little too closely related to its cousin, and in the 
 end, the developer should have spent more time making the PC version as cohesive as its console 
 counterpart. Fortunately, the game is at least available at retail at a budget price of $20.  

 
          The bikes and riders are modeled with a high level of detail.     

  The first thing you'll notice when comparing the versions side by side is that their menu systems 
 are nearly identical. Unfortunately, this means that the in-game menus don't have PC-specific options, 
 such as the ability to adjust your control setup and graphical configuration. These functions are 
 all handled by the game's launcher, so you have to exit the game and then relaunch to make any 
 changes. The game does all this with short load times and very little fanfare, but it's still a 
 pretty clumsy setup.  

  Otherwise, MotoGP 2 is a detailed re-creation of the 2002 MotoGP series, and with the changes it 
 makes to last year's title, the experience is a spot-on match. The roster has been updated to match 
 last year's series, with riders such as Valentino Rossi, Max Biaggi, Sete Gibernau, and Daijiro 
 Kato. The track count has gone up to 16, representing all of the series' courses, from Suzuka and 
 Sepang to Brno and Valencia. The 500cc two-stroke machines now share the starting grid with 1,000cc 
 four-stroke bikes such as the Yamaha M1, the Suzuki GSV-R, and the Honda RC211V. The single-player 
 mode provides a wide variety of modes to play in, such as the quick race mode, for those who want 
 to jump right into the action, and the stunt mode, which is an arcadelike game in which you pull 
 off high-speed stunts to score points and unlock new riders. Other modes include time trials to 
 polish your cornering lines on the tracks and a slew of multiplayer modes.  

  The heart of the single-player game is the career mode, in which you create a rider to compete 
 in the full MotoGP series. In addition to choosing a bike and leathers, you'll distribute attribute 
 points into skills such as cornering, braking, acceleration, and top speed. Additional points are 
 won by completing challenges and winning races, so if you're successful you'll have a pretty skilled 
 racer by the end of the season. Each circuit is run in a sequence and presented as a two-day race 
 event. The first day is for practice and qualification for grid placement, and the second is for 
 the race itself. True to life, races are held rain or shine, and the lines you chose on a sunny 
 practice day might be thrown out completely in the pouring rain of the actual race day. At the 
 end of each series, you can choose to go back and race on any of the previous tracks again or complete 
 any challenges you may have missed to improve your attributes, or you can move on to the next season. 

  The Xbox version of the game has a control scheme that creates a very compelling and accurate simulation 
 of the control of Grand Prix race bikes -- but this is another area in which the PC version falls 
 short. The operation of the game's motorcycles relies heavily on analog control, from gradually 
 increasing lean angle as the bike dives into a turn to the smooth application of throttle to speed 
 out of it. This translates very well to the Xbox controller, since nearly every function on that 
 controller is analog. But few such controllers exist for the PC, and digital control of your throttle 
 and brakes in particular can create some serious problems. If you've got a gamepad with analog 
 sticks, you can at least assign one of them to the throttle, but you'll have less control over 
 your bike overall, especially when it comes to pulling off advanced techniques, such as powerslides 
 and burnouts. When riding a motorcycle, going from nothing to wide-open throttle and locking your 
 brakes are good ways to compromise the traction of one or both of your tires, which in turn is 
 a good way to ensure that your rider spends a lot of time on the ground. While this problem can 
 be alleviated somewhat if you set the game's scaleable "simulation" setting at 0 percent, the game 
 is nearly unplayable at any other setting, especially in wet weather -- this can be particularly 
 frustrating, especially for beginners.  

  While the computer-controlled AI provides a lasting challenge for players, the most enjoyable competition 
 is another human. The PC version of MotoGP 2 features a multiplayer component, but it wasn't handled 
 very well. The game supports both LAN and online play, but you can use the in-game server browser 
 only for local network games. Online games require you to provide the IP address of the server 
 you're trying to connect to -- there's no internal server browser, so you'll most likely have to 
 turn to a third-party application. Beyond that, the multiplayer experience is functional, and servers 
 can take on up to 16 players. The game features a multitude of multiplayer modes, and a number 
 of them are quite fun. Championship and quick race are simply races for the checkered flag, while 
 the stunt mode forces you to compete for a high score by performing wheelies and burnouts and knocking 
 competitors off their bikes. The tag mode has players competing for ownership of sections of the 
 track by trying to complete those sections in the shortest time.  

          All 16 tracks of the 2002 MotoGP series are accurately represented.     

  At least 
 MotoGP 2 features some very good production values. All 16 tracks were impeccably re-created for 
 the game, and the weather effects, such sunlight glaring off the smooth track surface or rain spattering 
 on your visor as you dive into a corner behind a pack of other riders, are enjoyable no matter 
 how many times you see them. The bikes and riders are made of a large number of polygons, and they 
 closely resemble their real-world counterparts. The animations of riders leaning hard into corners, 
 tucking behind the windscreen, or glancing back as they pass are all well done, as are the subtler 
 animations such as throttle manipulation and shifting gears. The sound is pleasing as well, from 
 the nasal scream of the two-stroke bikes to the roar of the four-stroke bikes. The sounds of plastic 
 bodywork hitting and sliding against the tarmac and the wave of cheers as you pass through the 
 grandstands are very convincing. The soundtrack consists of rock tracks from artists such as V8 
 Pack, Third Girl, and Darrin Roggenkamp, but if this isn't to your liking, MotoGP 2 supports custom 
 soundtracks. For the most part, it seems that MotoGP 2's graphics and sound were ported over directly 
 from the Xbox version, but the game still looks and sounds quite good.  

  In the end, MotoGP 2 for the PC falls short of its potential. If the developer had spent more time 
 refining the control scheme and graphics to make better use of PC hardware and had added more functionality 
 to the game's menus and multiplayer options, the PC version of MotoGP 2 could have been as good 
 as the Xbox version. To its credit, the game is selling at a budget price, but as it stands, MotoGP 
 2 for the PC is a simple port that lacks good multiplayer and in-game options, and doesn't re-create 
 the highly functional and rewarding control scheme of the original console game.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (5 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: rautakanki
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 26, 2007 8:29 am PT
Review:  Graphics are good, detailed and suprisingly smooth even with my super low-end Radeon 9250. However, 
 the sense of speed was missing - can't tell the reason. Tracks are from real world, which is a 
 big deal. Some of the tracks were already featured in 1988 classic F1-game Grand Prix Circuit . 
 (I had to mention this, such a rare dej&aacute; v&ugrave;)
  
  In MotoGP 2, like in most of racing games, sounds were somewhat disappointing. It took only some 
 hours and I was fed up with that whine and turn on the soundtrack. There are 17 (?) songs, one 
 for each track - some sort of rock mostly. It took me a while to search, so I put them here in 
 case you're interested:
  
  Psynn2 (Menus) - Shawn Hargreaves
  Firebird (Suzuka) - V8 Pack
  Devil's Dice (Phakisa) - V8 Pack
  Oil (Jerez) - Third Girl
  
 5700 cc's (Le Mans) - V8 Pack
  Adrenalin (Mugello) - Darrin Roggenkamp
  Fastback Reptile Combo (Catalunya) - V8 Pack
  Gasoline Overlord (Assen) - V8 Pack
  Sabretooth 
 (Donington) - V8 Pack
  Sleazy Rider (Sachsenring) - Third Girl
  Chrome Rider (Brno) - V8 Pack
  Eat Dirt (Estoril) - Third Girl
  10-4 Rocker (Rio) - V8 Pack
 
  Metropolis (Motegi) - V8 Pack
  Needle (Sepang) - Darrin Roggenkamp
  Power Up (Phillip Island) - V8 Pack
  Doug McClure (Valencia) - V8 Pack
  Slipstream (Sheridan 
 Circuit) - Third Girl
  Cookin' on Electric (Credits) - Third Girl
  
  Most of these are crap, but you can add your own OGG-files to soundtrack folder. Just remember 
 to put them inside another folder - so that you can select that folder in game settings.
  
  Digital controls are the biggest fault of this game. If you don't have an analog stick, bikes are 
 damn hard to control. Hint: lean forward while exiting curves and your bike will not skid so easily. 
 I liked the following configuration:
  
  x=accelerate
  c=brake
  z=rear brake
  left shift = lean forward
  left control = lean back (and you'll be airborne in no time)
  
 
  FYI: Initially most of the tracks are locked. After I won every race at easiest level (full season) , 
 they were all unlocked but one.
  
  I think a 3rd person view is useless in any racing game, but there are a few to choose from, if 
 you like that kind of realism . Btw, the replay is good.
  
  This is one the games you'll never really master. You drive off the track easily, but at least 
 on the easiest level that won't necessarily take you out of the race. I recommend! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sridharjazz
Rating: 5.6
Date: Aug 12, 2006 1:56 am PT
Review:  I played Superbike developed by Sony. It was a good game but it was'nt so difficult for me when 
 compared to Moto GP2. It has good graphics but does'nt live up to expectations with regard to gameplay, enjoyment 
 and difficulty. For an amateur like me, It's really difficult to play a game like motogp 2 which 
 needs extreme skill and capability. 
  Another negative is that all the things including riders, tracks are locked. For example, If you 
 want to race in a track like Phakisa you have complete the Suzuka race first. 
  Positives:
  1) Player Editing features are excellent.
  2) Sound tracks are good
  3) Replay feature is mind 
 blowing.
  4) Graphics is good.
  And it is worth a try even if you're an amateur in gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: surfarious
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 13, 2003 2:10 pm PT
Review:  I would just say that after playing the demo I am pretty sure I"ll be buying this so called budget 
 title. Come on, this is no budget title at all, its a triple A game.
  
  I had to personalize my Rumble Pad controller, which took a few tries, and then the controls became 
 intuitive. I like to seperate my steering functions from my accelerator and brake, otherwise I'm 
 doing more then one function at a time.
  
  The Rookie setting was kind of slow but good for getting use to the game, however the Pro setting 
 is almost perfect. I'm still surprised I didn't get a frame rate slow down with all those Bikes 
 on the screen at the same time.
  
  The only complaint I can see so far is the slightly twitchy feel of the analogue steering on my 
 controller. This is partly due to the shape of the thumb stick itself so I"ll wait to see if I 
 dexterity improves as I learn the game.
  
  The great thing for me about racing games is how you can pick them up at any time for a quick rush, 
 and put them down and forget it about them. I am currently playing Rally Trophy a bit, which is 
 a hard but fun game. I like faily realistic simualations. I think MotoGP 2 is going to be similar 
 in class to RT in reguards to having next generation graphics, realistic physics, and great AI.
 
  
  Time for a trip to Gamestop!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DreamcastDC
Rating: 10
Date: May 31, 2003 1:38 pm PT
Review:  honestly, i give this game a ten in all of its categories. Gameplay is unmatched. i believe that 
 motogp2 has the best gameplay of not only all of the pc racers out there, but of all the console 
 racers as well. This is so because the game is ultra realistic. when ur making a huge turn, you 
 can feel your body touching the asphalt. in other words, you can see and feel your racer making 
 a turn because your racer's body nearly touches the asphalt, just the way real life motorcycle 
 racing is meant to be. I think this feature itself may had influenced me to giving the gameplay 
 a ten; however, there are other great things other than the ultra realism that influenced me in 
 giving it a ten. The graphics of motogp2 are tremondous as well. the graphics are so realistic 
 that one would think that they were watching a real motorcycle race on television. aside from the 
 graphics and the gameplay, one of the games best features has got to be the sound. the bikes sound 
 exactly as they are meant to be in real life, so therefore, you can actually feel the game metaphorically; 
 it brings the game to life. whats even more amazing is the music. the music is so intense that 
 it pumps me up, makes me play harder ,and play with more intensity. However, the music is not the 
 games best feature ,for it is in fact the value of the game. one can pay 20 dollars to get him/herself 
 a copy of motogp2. This is an incredible bargain considering the game's tremendous gameplay, graphics, and 
 sounds, as i mentioned before. there are some games that cost twice as much and yet they are not 
 as enjoyable as motogp2. One might say that the game is so cost efficient because it is a motorcycle 
 game; however, although it's genre (motorcycle racing) is not known by most , once people get their 
 hand on a copy motogp2, they will all become huge fans of the gaming genre. In fact, i was not 
 a very big fan of motorcycle racing games myself until i got my hand on a copy of motogp2. furthermore, 
 after playing motogp2, i no longer have the urge for a good pc racer. motogp2, although it is not 
 your normal racing game, satifies that urge . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Imhotepp
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 22, 2003 5:40 am PT
Review:  This game is the balls. The camera is great, the speed is great, graffics are great, but the music 
 left little to be desired. (thanks Mr. Gate for the HD) But all in all this game is a must have party 
 game. I waited on MotoGP2 and did not get the first game and am greatful. It took all I had to 
 not get MGP but well worth the wait on MGP2. Does the Sony game of MGP3 go online? Playing the 
 demo online, I felt left out but now I am complete. I have'nt played on Live yet because of the 
 new tracks and it just came out yesturday and had to get used to in only two hours of play. (I have 
 an 11 month old son who does not like to sleep at night) but will be there this weekend. Anyone 
 wanna game, get this game, you will not be diappointed. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
