-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: MotoGP 3: Ultimate Racing Technology
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/driving/motogp3/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 All of the official MotoGP tracks, riders, and bikes.
 Sharp graphics and excellent bike physics.
 All new extreme tracks provide a nice change of pace.
 Plenty of content for $20.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Online play is poorly integrated and there's no in-game server browser.
 Frame rate bogs down while you're racing.
 Controls aren't tight enough for precision racing.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 12, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.6
Critic Score: 7.7, 7 Review (s)
User Score: 8.1, 436 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: THQ
Developer: Climax Group
Genre: Motorcycle Racing
Date:     Aug 30, 2005
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Unfortunately, the PC version of the game doesn't have the same online support and tight control 
 that made the Xbox version so great, but at $20 it's an acceptable alternative for racing fans. 
 

  Riding a motorcycle at speeds approaching 200 miles per hour around hairpin turns on hot asphalt 
 is about as intense as motorsports get. MotoGP 3: Ultimate Racing Technology, the latest motorcycle 
 racing sim from THQ, comes complete with a full roster of riders and courses from around the world. 
 But it isn't a mere roster update. In the third installment in the series, developer Climax offers 
 a more arcade-style racing experience with the addition of extreme mode, which adds all-new fictional 
 tracks and riders to complement the licensed portion of the game. Diehard sim fans might object 
 to this slight departure from reality, but it feels perfectly valid within the context of the game, 
 and it's a lot of fun to boot. Unfortunately, the PC version doesn't have the same online support 
 and tight control that made the Xbox version so great, but at $20 it's an acceptable alternative 
 for racing fans.  

          MotoGP 3 on the PC doesn't have the same tight controls and online support as the Xbox 
 version of the game, but for $20 it's still a pretty good deal.     

  MotoGP 3 is split into two distinct but complementary racing modes: Grand Prix and extreme mode. 
 Grand Prix mode lets you take part in the 2004 MotoGP season, with fully licensed tracks, riders, 
 and bikes. You can race against the best riders in the world on the 16 real-world MotoGP tracks, 
 from the familiar Le Mans course in France to the new Gulf course in Qatar. All the riders, bikes, 
 and courses are represented with pinpoint accuracy here, but the 2004 season highlight movies that 
 were included in the Xbox version of the game have been cut from the PC version.  

  When you play career mode you can create a custom rider and race your way through all 16 races 
 in the 2004 MotoGP season. You can choose your bike and leathers, and even create a custom logo 
 to slap on the side of your racing machine. Once that's complete, you're ready to race. Before 
 each race, you have an opportunity to run practice laps to get a feel for the course. After that, 
 you can move on to the qualifying round, where you're given 10 minutes to run the fastest lap possible. 
 Your fastest lap determines which position you'll start in at the beginning of the race. You can't 
 always count on the weather being the same for the practice, qualifying, and racing rounds, so 
 you have to be ready to adapt if it's raining on race day.  

  After completing each race, you earn attribute points that can be applied to your rider to improve 
 cornering, braking, top speed, and acceleration. These points can be redistributed between races. 
 For example, if you think you'll need a few more points on the top end for an upcoming race, you 
 can pull some points from cornering and put them toward your top speed. In addition to modifying 
 your stats, you can tune your bike between races. The tuning component of the game is fairly shallow, 
 but you can adjust your bike where it counts most: tire compound for grip; gear-tuning for acceleration 
 and top speed; suspension for stability; and wheelbase for cornering. Depending on how you place 
 in each career race, you earn championship points, and the rider with the most points at the end 
 of the season is the champion. How well you do really depends on your familiarity with each turn 
 of every track, as well as the difficulty setting of the artificial intelligence-controlled racers. 
 The artificial competition is downright pathetic in rookie mode, and even inexperienced racers 
 will easily take at least a 30- to 40-second lead over the rest of the pack. Luckily, the pro, 
 champion, and legend difficulty modes are challenging enough to give seasoned riders a run for 
 their money.  

          This time around you can race on 16 all-new 'extreme' courses.     

  The biggest new 
 feature in MotoGP 3 is extreme mode, which lets you race in three different classes on 16 fictional 
 street courses. You can race 600cc 2-strokes, as well as 1000cc and 1200cc 4-strokes, for a total 
 of 16 new bikes. All of the bikes and riders are fictional, but they look and behave convincingly 
 enough. If you're playing in career mode, you'll earn money for each race you're in, which you 
 can spend on parts, tuning, or new bikes. There are five different categories to sink your earnings 
 into on your bike, and each category has three progressive stages. For example, if you want to 
 spend some money to tune your engine, you have to start off with fuel mapping for $100, then move 
 on to port polishing and engine blueprinting, with a $100 increase at each stage. It isn't especially 
 involved, but it provides all the more incentive to keep winning races. As in Grand Prix mode, 
 you can also tune your bike by adjusting things like gear ratios, suspension, and tire compound. 
 Again, the tuning isn't too involved, so even the mechanically inept can easily figure out how 
 to properly tune a bike.     

  The tracks in extreme mode are fictional, but they're set in real-world locations such as Tokyo, 
 Barcelona, and Prague. These are all street circuits, so you'll race through narrow alleyways, 
 city streets, or crooked country roads. Some of the races even take place at night. The courses 
 look great, especially when you're zooming by at 180 miles per hour. The extreme courses are not 
 only nice to look at, but they're also  fast . These courses have fewer sharp turns, so you can 
 keep the throttle open for most of the race. On the smaller bikes, you hardly need to use the brakes 
 at all. Overall, the extreme courses are much less demanding in terms of technical racing skills, 
 but they're still a lot of fun. And even if you're put off by the arcade-style feel of these races, 
 it doesn't detract from the Grand Prix part of the game in any way.  

          MotoGP 3 supports up to 16 players online, but for some reason there's no integrated server 
 browser.     

  Whether you play MotoGP 3 online or offline, you'll improve your seed, which is basically a skill 
 ranking. If you win a lot of difficult races, your seed will get lower and lower. You start out 
 at 100, and you can get all the way down to one if you're really dedicated. Your seed is used to 
 let others online know how you rank in terms of skill and experience. You can race any of the extreme 
 or Grand Prix courses online, with a full suite of options to adjust the weather effects, number 
 of laps, scoring, collisions, AI riders, and more. Up to 16 players can race in Grand Prix mode, 
 and up to 10 can race in extreme mode. Unfortunately, the online multiplayer in the PC version 
 isn't integrated very well. There is no server browser in the game, so unless you know the IP address 
 you want to connect to, you have to exit MotoGP 3 and launch a third-party program to find a game. 
 The game also supports LAN play, or you can run four-player, split-screen races if you have enough 
 USB ports and gamepads.  

  The controls are fully customizable, but steering with the keyboard is less than ideal. We found 
 the best option to be a gamepad with analog control, which the game does support. The bike physics 
 are accurately represented here, and there's a simple satisfaction to be found in gracefully righting 
 your bike after a perfectly navigated chicane or hairpin turn. You can really feel a difference 
 when the road surfaces change -- which they often do. You'll race on cobblestones, wooden bridges, 
 and rain-slicked pavement, and if you stray off the course there's always a dreaded gravel trap 
 waiting to swallow your wheels and slow you down. All of these effects can drastically alter the 
 outcome of a race. For example, when the track is wet, it really feels like your rear wheels are 
 about to slip out from under you at any moment. As a result, you have to modify your lines and 
 ride a bit more conservatively to stay on course. One thing to especially look out for is getting 
 too close to the computer-controlled riders. If you tangle with them, you'll most likely end up 
 eating asphalt while they ride on unfazed. Although the AI isn't overly aggressive, it's still 
 frustrating when you get knocked off your bike at the slightest contact with another racer.  

 
          The tracks, riders, and weather effects look nice, but unfortunately the frame rate often 
 gets choppy.     

  The production values are fairly high in MotoGP 3 on the PC, especially for a budget game. The 
 courses, bikes, and riders look great, but the frame rate often dips and snags as you're racing. 
 The engine noise sounds authentic, and while the music isn't particularly interesting, it isn't 
 intrusive either. MotoGP 3 on the PC feels like a stripped-down version of its Xbox counterpart. 
 The PC version features the same tracks and riders, but the online play, frame rate issues, and 
 awkward controls make it a much less-appealing game. Still, the licensed content and budget price 
 make MotoGP 3 a solid choice for racing fans.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (16 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: gumeh
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 24, 2008 10:05 am PT
Review:  =preview=
  
  u will enjoy to ride ur motocycle and defeat a familiar rider like rossi, capirossi. stoner, even 
 there are max biagi!! the speed will flying u to win the game or became the worst.
  
  =gameplay=
  
  there are similar with others motocycle game, you can choose quick race and playing 
 a most popular bikers in the world, or campaign with career mode which allow u to create ur team 
 choose ur bike, make a costum, team logo, even choose ur bikecycle color. u will front on 16 maps 
 which u must conquered to open others map. u will given money to buy any spare parts 4 ur bike 
 also to buy a new bike with good speed and acceleration. but i have difficulty controls in here, 
 to tight and i can't change my controls. i'm not recommended to play with multiplayer mode, very 
 annoying i guess.
  
  =graphics=
  
  details of the motorcycle is good, the environment standard like i have seen. but almost a few 
 bug in movements and graphics display. but doesn't matter about that. i recommended to play with 
 AMD cpu 1.8 or higher with compatible 9.0 sound card, and with radeon 9700 or higher, geforce 6600 
 or higher with 512 mb ram i guess enough to run this game with best performance.
  
  =All performance=
  
  i'm not saying alot about this game, moto gp 3 ultimate racing tech is 
 a one of best bikers game i have play. not better than others but is still good to play and feel 
 the speed!!. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wengistein
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 30, 2008 7:21 pm PT
Review:  I am a big fan of MotoGP and follow it intently every year, so I thought I'd dig this old game 
 up from my collection and give it another go.
  
  Reading the back of the CD box, it does provide a good selection of riders and tracks, though only 
 if you play through the whole game. Each time you complete a race, something is unlocked, meaning 
 you'll have to play through the whole game to get everything (of course, there are always cheats) . 
 The designs of the riders and the motorbikes are spot on. There's also an arcade-ish type game 
 as well, called the "Extreme" category, where there are plenty of custom created motorbikes from 
 the developer. For the PC version, there are obviously enhanced graphics and it doesn't require 
 a powerful computer to run it, either.
  
  At the end of each race, a replay is played everytime and you are free to watch it; if you are 
 serious about MotoGP and it's racing, it's great for spotting flaws in your racing, and it is just 
 useful for watching. The ability to save it allows you to watch it later is also a nifty feature.
 
  
  However, no game is perfect and these flaws are missing features that I feel are quite important 
 to have in the game. In the console version, the gamers have the gamepad, which has the analog 
 stick, which will allow players to control the lean angle of their turn. Unfortunately, the developer 
 decided to abandon gamepad support for the PC version. Followers of MotoGP know that there is a 
 race line, and for that race line to work, there are a variety of angles for turning, and MotoGP 
 does not exactly equate a simple, "turn left, turn right" type of turning. Now me, being slightly 
 obsessive compulsive, I find it difficult to play with just the keyboard's arrow keys. It's impossible 
 to follow the race line because getting the right angle is difficult, and the A. I. for the racers 
 are just unbelievably strange: if you don't follow the race line, they will crash into you as if 
 you were not there.
  
  Other irks I had with this game was how realistic it actually is. Options to fine tune your motorbike 
 is not as great as I thought it was. It's very basic and I wish there were more options for the 
 MotoGP enthusiast. Another irk is when I was racing, I realised that when I breaked hard during 
 a turn, I found that nothing would happen; I would just turn and slow down. Now, in real life, 
 anyone doing that would end up locking their wheels, and they would either be thrown off the bike 
 or lose their turn and straighten back up again.
  
  It seems to have a slight case of "consolitis", where the menu can only be navigated by the keyboard 
 and not the mouse. The ability to customise your motorbike is nice, but using only the keyboard, 
 it's a bit frustrating.
  
  While I do believe this is a good way to introduce yourself into MotoGP, it does have a difficult 
 learning curve. People who are new to MotoGP will have to learn about the race line and how the 
 racing actually works; it's not as simple as going faster and taking over, much like other arcade 
 races out there. Above all, it is an enjoyable game that will keep you hooked for a few days, though 
 I really recommend buying it from the bargain bin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gauravfox
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 9, 2008 11:39 pm PT
Review:  MotoGp 3: Ultimate Racing Technology
  The names seems to be pretty interesting for a MotoGP game.. isn't it ?!! well, it is not an ultimate 
 in racing technology, but it lives up to the expectations of all the MotoGp fans out there. The 
 graphics and the physics of the bikes along with the tracks are pretty awesome. The 1000 CC and 
 the 1200CC class is totally wicked and addictive !! the customizations of the bikes are not much, 
 but still is fair enough. The extreme bikes look funny, could have been better. The professional 
 racers are pretty cool too. the tracks and the difficulty level available are something which keeps 
 a player going. The AI of the racers in higher levels of difficulty are challenging, they definitely 
 mean business. The smooth movement and precision driving along with different camera angles are 
 amazing. The replays are something to look out for. The tracks in the other classes of races [1000 
 and 1200] are too good. they offer sheer pleasure of racing.
  
  Overall, this is one of the best MotoGp games out there. ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 483paul
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 2, 2008 11:41 am PT
Review:  You can pick this game up online for $10. Which in my opinion you can't go wrong with that purchase. 
 This is a great racing game.
  I'm going to talk about the flaws that made me give it only a 8.5. First i wish the AI of the racers 
 was smarter. It seems they have their set path on the track and will hit into you if you are in 
 that path. Rookie difficulty is way to easy. Online play needs some kind of interface or menu. 
 You have to know the IP address of the game you wish to connect to. Horrible way of online play. 
 They do offer some bike tweakings to let you customize your bikes riding. However they offer you 
 3 types of tires soft, medium, and hard. You will find that soft tires is the only way to go because 
 medium and hard feel like worn down washed out tires with no grip. 
  -----------
  Now for the good. You have pretty good control of the bike. You can use front and rear brakes independently. 
 You can balance the rider on the bike by either leaning forward or back on the bike. The thing 
 i like most about this game is its difficulty. As mentioned rookie is way to easy but if you play 
 on hard you will be fighting for 1st place each race. The game offers a pretty cool replay options 
 to rewatch your race. One cool feature is the option of time trials. You can lap around the track 
 as many times as you wish and each time you beat your current time it spawns a ghost bike of your 
 lap. So you race against yourself again and again trying to better your time against your ghost 
 bike.
  This game is a lot of fun and worth the purchase. If you are a Moto GP fan you won't be disappointed 
 with this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mobit76
Rating: 5.1
Date: Jul 9, 2007 12:42 pm PT
Review:  Vista users beware! MotoGP 3 does not support gamepad use. Keyboard only and you can't edit the 
 keyboard controls (arrow keys for steering / gas and breaking) .
  There is a workaround, if you have key-mapping software included with your gamepad (eg Logitech) , 
 but the analogue controls will only function as keys (ie on or off) .
  
  The scores that I gave to the game are specifically relevant to a Vista pc, on which system the 
 game is virtually unplayabe with the cursor-key controls. The game developer does not intend to 
 release a patch to rectify this problem.
  
  Leaving aside the Vista control issue, the game does look and sound stunning. The addition of three 
 extra roadbike classes, together with lots of road-circuits increases the long term playability 
 of this game over the original MotoGP, so long as you play it on XP or earlier systems. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmb34
Rating: 8.3
Date: Sep 23, 2006 8:33 am PT
Review:  I didnt know this game came out on the pc but have been playing the new version on the 360. I was 
 surprised at how close this game felt to the 360 version though it has slightly better graphics. 
 I have not been able to find this game locally and I dont ever recall seeing it sitting on any 
 shelves since it's release. I found it though at walmart. com for $ 20 and rightly purchased it. 
 One thing I would point out is definately get a game pad to play this game, it is possible to play 
 on the keyboard but much better with the pad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mosss4
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 26, 2006 11:57 am PT
Review:  This game has got what it takes to be the best Motorcycle racing sim on the PC at the moment. Not 
 since Superbike 2001 has realism and pure track adrenalin been put together as well as Motogp 3. 
 Bike fanatics like me will love it. Its as realistic as they come great graphics and speed to go. 
 The physics of the game match the real thing. Its as hard or easy as you want it with plenty of 
 extras like choosing everything on your bike and leathers. However it can't compete with the fun 
 of bigger racing sims like need for speed or driver, so my tip is to pick it up cheap this way 
 you can't be disapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wurn
Rating: 7.1
Date: Aug 15, 2006 8:18 am PT
Review:  Not that there are lots of new PC motorcycling games out there this one will have to do. I ride 
 a motorcycle everyday and i can tell you this game does not come close to it. The onboard view 
 is the one i select first in any racing game and its horrible in this one.
  
  Superbikes 2001 is 100 times beter. The game itsell looks great, nice graphics the way you can 
 custom make your own player is great. Its near impossible to keep a good line in a corner using 
 the keyboard. I use my Logitech joypad and that works much better.
  
  I only wish that the PS3 Tourist Trophy was made for PC asswell but alas not. Not since Superbikes 
 2001 has there been a motorcycle game for PC that inspired me.
  
  No matter how many tracks or bikes or whatever they cram into this game will make it any better 
 until they change the physics engine.
  
  It is still enjoyable enough to play a few hours at a time. Also to reach the Master class difficulty 
 was very easy. Download the demo first if you are thinking of buying it unless its really cheap 
 to buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fiskadoro73
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jul 16, 2006 10:31 am PT
Review:  After reading all the reviews about how terrible the control is on the PC, I still gave this game 
 a go anyway, and am glad I did! Analogue control with a RumblePad 2 is as good as playing on the 
 console format, so if you have one of those, don't worry so much about control issues. You will 
 need to make a few tweaks to the default set-up, but it shouldn't be too much of a problem.
  
  I like the inclusion of road tracks as well as the standard circuits, this helped the variety 
 a bit. The racing is still fast, fun, and looks excellent, running at a decent frame rate throughout. 
 I know the developers consider this a simulation, but actually, it's pure arcade racing really. 
 You get knocked off your bike, you get back on, and you might still keep your lead. The difference 
 between rookie level and pro is quite a shift, so it certainly keeps you challenged.
  
  By no means the greatest driving game in the world, I think MotoGP 3 has enough going for it to 
 make it a fun, pick up and play kind of game that doesn't get too intense, so long as you treat 
 it as more of an arcade racer than a true sim. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jlr2k8
Rating: 6
Date: May 30, 2006 1:58 pm PT
Review:  for a short period of time, i had motoGP 3 on ps2. the ps2 version was very good... especially graphics 
 wise. i recently got the pc version, and was very disappointed in the overall quality. the vehicles 
 are very hard to control, and it does not have a mouse function (for menus and stuff) which made 
 it somewhat difficult to manuver through different options.
  
  the graphics still maintained excellent quality. in fact, i would almost say that the pc version 
 was comparatively better graphics-wise. it lagged a bit, but thats probably just my computer.
 
  
  in terms of sound quality, it sounded pretty good. im not sure what to compare it to, since ive 
 never raced a motorcycle 200mph around a track :P .
  
  but overall, i would say the pc version of the game is kinda disappointing compared to the ps2 
 version. this game was definitely not designed for pc use. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iunder
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 17, 2006 10:27 pm PT
Review:  In response to two of the supposed cons mentioned in the GameSpot review:
  
  Handling: Do you own an Xbox? If so, buy a converter that allows you to use an Xbox gamepad on 
 your PC. If not, buy a converter AND an Xbox gamepad. I've played a demo of the Xbox version, and 
 I can't find any differences between the PC and Xbox versions control-wise. I think that the review 
 should have commended the PC version for including the possibility of analogue control. (Compare 
 something like Mashed on the PC, which, I think, didn't.) There's no excuse for complaining about 
 naff keyboard control when the game supports gamepads so well. Compared to the price of a PC that 
 can play this game adequately, the cost of an Xbox gamepad and converter is peanuts.
  
  Framerate: I don't have any framerate issues at 1280x1024 (the best my monitor can achieve) , with 
 the settings maxed out (apart from textures, which is probably because my card has only 128MB RAM) . 
 This is on a P4 3GHz, 1GB RAM, Nvidia 6600GT. The framerate seems to be capped at 60fps, and it 
 never dropped below that figure while I was testing it.
  
  All in all, if you have a decent PC, you might want to get this version for the improved graphics 
 over the Xbox version. The Gamespot review was right about one thing, however: the multiplayer 
 on the PC sucks. If you particularly want to play online, you should probably go for the Xbox version 
 instead. I'm glad I saved 10 and bought the PC version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: funnylama
Rating: 7.4
Date: Dec 2, 2005 3:13 am PT
Review:  The MotoGP 3 is a very good simulating game. Its graphic is good, and the way the bikes moves, 
 is very real. 
  
  And then, there isn't much more to say, cool sounds and nice graphics, and all the other things 
 to make it look real. But the further you get in the gameplay, the more boring it gets. That makes 
 me sad. If the men, or women, who made it, had made some more options or some missions or something, 
 it would have been real sweet. But on the other hand. It's a simulating game. So i understand them.
 
  
  Good game... Takes a 7,4
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dollar741
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 9, 2005 8:13 pm PT
Review:  it's a good game to play the graphics look great but there is still something about moto gp 2 to 
 you'll get used to the speed turn the corners good soon you gonna be good enough to pro just have 
 fun with it just kick back have fun with the game and let the game have fun with you peace the 
 sound is almost perfect the grass bike tyres air everthing looks good but it takes to long to get 
 up after a crash online game play seems good to the only thin i think is that u can't customize 
 some bikes 
::::::

::::::
UserName: legumo
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 4, 2005 4:54 am PT
Review:  I played MOTOGP 2 and been in a clan and still am in a clan from 3 years,
  won many tournaments (always 2nd or 3rd in rank) and enjoy playing MOTOGP 2 always and everyday 
 on GAMESPY.
  
  I expected MOTOGP 3 to be better, to be revolutionary, to bring more thrill and top the older game...... it 
 failed miserably.
  
  the Bikes are uncontrollable, they made the bike crash at anything,
  whereas in MOTOGP2 the bike reacted realistically, you double-tap the UP ARROW and you do a slide 
 etc, this time even by tweaking your heart out of the bike, the bike dont feel as a bike and you 
 fall no matter how much you practice.
  
  The graphics arent better than the MOTOGP2, in fact i feel they are exactly the same, thats not 
 bad..... but for a game calling itself ULTIMATE RACING TECHNOLOGY, you expect an engine upgrade 
 or something...
  truth be told, the engine of MOTOGP2 and 3 are excellent either ways,
  great lights, bump-maps, and so on.
  
  i can play it with my ATHLON64 and 7800GTX with full 
 details + AA and AF at 8x.
  
  If you're a fan of MOTOGP...... stay with MOTOGP 2 and forget MOTOGP3, not worth, in fact it's worser.... and 
 this time, experience dont matter, that sucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jfinaz2
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 3, 2005 9:44 pm PT
Review:  Game has great graphics if you run it at 1600x1200 resolution with the detail levels maxed out. 
 A large number of both racing tracks and city streets keep the game interesting. It isn't the easiest 
 to control at first, but once you play for awhile it's not to bad. The biggest flaw seems to be 
 the onboard / cockpit view, it is almost impossible to play while using this view and all the bikes 
 have the same look to the gauges and windshield which seems to represent a Ducati 999. I loved 
 playing Superbike 2001 on the cockpit view, it looked different on every bike, was easy to control 
 and if made the whole game seem more realistic. Unfortunately MotoGP 3 seemed to drop the ball 
 on that aspect. Otherwise it's a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kini62
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 18, 2005 6:00 pm PT
Review:  It's great. Hours and hours of play. Can race as any number of riders, bikes. All the real tracks. 
 No FPS can compare for longevity. Graphics are great.
  
  Wheelies, nosies, smoking doughnuts all great.
  
  I agree it is frustrating to go down so easliy 
 with contact with the AI. Sometimes it seems they take you out on purpose. When I feel that happens 
 I restart the race to make it fair.
  
  I need to get an analog controller, the all or nothing throttle on my game pad leads to long black 
 streaks and lost time and control coming out of corners.
  
  All and all one of the best games out and for the price can't be beat. It helps that I'm a big 
 MotoGP and Rossi/Hayden fan. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
