-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Motocross Madness 2
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/driving/motocrossmadness2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May 31, 2000
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.8
Critic Score: 8.7, 37 Review (s)
User Score: 8.4, 401 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Microsoft Game Studios
Developer: Rainbow Studios
Genre: Motocross Racing
Date:     May 26, 2000
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Motocross Madness 2 isn't the most realistic motorcycle simulation you can buy, but it's definitely 
 one of the most enjoyable. 

 When Motocross Madness hit shelves almost two years ago, gamers and critics alike were taken aback 
 at just how much fun the first racing simulation from Rainbow Studios turned out to be. "Simulation" 
 might not be the right word to describe a dirt-bike game with bare-bones setup options and a physics 
 model that lets you pull off jumps and stunts that would leave real-life riders and their bikes 
 piled up in a broken heap - but no matter how you define it, the fact remains that Motocross Madness 
 was one of the most exciting and addictive games of 1998.   

  The original set a high standard, but for the sequel, Rainbow and Microsoft have managed to deliver 
 a game that's even bigger, badder, bolder, and better in just about every way imaginable. From 
 its eye-popping scenery graphics and breathtaking crash and stunt animations to its impressive 
 array of indoor courses and fully realized outdoor environments, Motocross Madness 2 almost never 
 ceases to impress. Whether you opt for a hair-raising 15-minute session of stunts or a marathon 
 session of online racing against fellow Motocross maniacs, the game always leaves you eager to 
 give it one more go-round.   

  Some Motocross Madness 2 owners might feel slighted that the game doesn't ship with a course editor, 
 but there should be plenty of courses to keep them happy until Microsoft makes the utility available 
 for download: The game features more than 70 venues, from noisy indoor arenas to snow-capped mountains, 
 sun-scorched deserts, hilly forests, working farms, and more. Cyber-cyclists can choose from more 
 than 20 models of dirt bikes, starting with nimble, quick 125s and moving all the way up to 600cc 
 monsters that can easily prove to be too much to handle for beginners.   

  It's a bit disappointing that the game only has 12 models of bikes from three real-life manufacturers 
 (Honda, Yamaha, and KTM) , but it's probably just as well since you'd be hard-pressed to spot any 
 significant handling differences between comparably sized cycles. The game's garage feature is 
 equally slim: You can adjust front and rear suspension settings and tweak the power curve to deliver 
 more horsepower at various RPM settings, but at the end of the day most gamers will happily use 
 one of the preset configurations for each of the bikes. Besides, most of us would rather spend 
 our time designing custom rider skins (which can be uploaded for all to admire in a multiplayer 
 match) , rather than getting greasy in the garage.   

  The 70 tracks are divided among six single-player events, including the original game's Baja, Freestyle 
 Stunts, Nationals, and Supercross modes, in addition to Enduro (similar to Baja) and a career-based 
 Pro Circuit where your performance determines how soon you'll move up to new bikes and courses. 
 Both Baja and Enduro events are set in the great outdoors on tracks that consist of a series of 
 waypoints - but the path you take from gate to gate is entirely up to you. To finish at the front 
 of the pack, you'll need to log more than a few practice sessions to explore the area in search 
 of shortcuts, but even this is a blast because of all the goodies the developers have packed into 
 each area.   

  As you burn through the countryside, you'll marvel at low-flying planes, jump over speeding trains, 
 scream past (or slam into) cars and trucks, and dodge slow-moving farm machinery. Add lushly detailed 
 terrain and vegetation, and it's easy to see why you can spend hours just feeding your wanderlust. 
    

 Freestyle Stunts are incredibly fun whether you pull off a mind-blowing combo of moves or just kick 
 back and relish the spectacular crash animations. Watching your character fly through the air with 
 arms akimbo as the bike hurtles just behind him is a guilty but very satisfying pleasure. There's 
 definitely a bit of a learning curve involved if you want to start racking up big-time scores with 
 multiplier bonuses, but the feeling of satisfaction you get after ripping off two or even three 
 moves while airborne makes it more than worth the effort. The only shortcoming with the Freestyle 
 mode is the game's VCR feature: Although you can switch the view between all the riders and manipulate 
 a user-defined perspective, the lack of rewind or fast-forward capabilities means you can only 
 watch it from start to finish. But at least you can pause.   

  Probably the most challenging events are the Nationals and Supercross. The 17 Supercross tracks, 
 which are set inside huge coliseums, are just like the ones you see on ESPN or Speedvision - as 
 well they should be, since they were co-designed by professional motocross rider Stephane "Ron 
 Ron" Roncada. These M. C. Escher-like circuits will tax all your skills, from the use of suspension 
 spring (using the spring of the rear suspension to gain height and airtime) to the fine art of 
 feathering the brakes and gas through brutally tight curves. Nationals are set in expansive outdoor 
 environments, so there are more opportunities for jaw-dropping jumps and crowd-pleasing stunts. 
   

  The original Motocross Madness was one of the most popular games on Microsoft's Gaming Zone, so 
 it's no surprise the sequel is garnering the same enthusiasm. Finding opponents is no problem - 
 hundreds were playing within a day or two of the game's release - and for the most part the game 
 delivers smooth action without anomalies like disappearing or frozen drivers. Those things can 
 still happen occasionally, but the good news is that an opponent's poor connection has no bearing 
 on your performance. About the only time you can expect less-than-stellar multiplayer results is 
 when someone with a midrange system or mediocre Internet connection tries hosting an eight-player 
 game.   

  Motocross Madness 2 isn't without a few of its own problems. Some will find the sound effects for 
 the bikes - which, along with the smell of those two-stroke engines, is one of the most easily 
 identifiable aspects of real-life dirt-biking - aren't quite as loud and powerful as they were 
 in the first game. The game's first-person view is practically worthless because there's no graphic 
 for the front wheels or handlebars; without them, it's too difficult to correctly position the 
 bike for a smooth landing. And the penalty for going off the track in National and Supercross events 
 is definitely on the harsh side: If you don't turn around and reenter the course at the appropriate 
 spot within five seconds - which is considerably more troublesome than it sounds - you're thrown 
 back on the track where you left for a standing start. While there has to be some sort of penalty 
 for leaving the course, especially if you're trying to gain an unfair advantage, there also has 
 to be a better way of handling ticky-tack miscues.   

  In addition, more than one user has reported problems with video-card compatibility in Motocross 
 Madness 2, but the majority can be corrected with updated drivers. I experienced no graphic glitches 
 at all when playing with either a TNT2 or Voodoo2, but I did encounter one or two desktop crashes 
 after particularly long sessions in the Stunt Quarry. But on the whole, the game seems relatively 
 bug-free and stable.   

  Motocross Madness 2 isn't the most realistic motorcycle simulation you can buy, but it's definitely 
 one of the most enjoyable. The game's got a little something for everyone - and with a modest sticker 
 price of around $35, it's also one that just about anyone can afford. If your system can run it, 
 you'd do well to head out to grab a copy. You won't be sorry you did.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (6 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: rohitmitra5752
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 17, 2009 9:01 am PT
Review:  Hop onto a bike, rev up the engine, release the clutch and speed away to a relaxing 120 mph ride. 
 Motocross Madness 2 is one of those games that are meant for pure fun - no story, no plot, no massive 
 gameplay.
  
  1. Gameplay - As I've said before, no massive gameplay. It's a simple interface. Select your bike, 
 your track, your clothing and start racing. A speedometer is the only thing in your entire screen 
 other than you, your bike and the terrain.
  
  2. Sound - The bikes seem quite realistic. So do the rest of the environment. As for music, themes 
 and background scores, Motocross Madness 2 gives it a miss.
  
  3. Story - There was once a bike and it liked to race ... Are you seriously reading this? How could 
 you think that such games have a story?
  
  4. Graphics - The graphics for Motocross Madness 2 are bit jumpy. That's all that I will say, because 
 such a good game should deserve as little criticism as possible.
  
  My verdict is that Motocross Madness 2 is worth every penny for anyone - gamer or not. For gamers, 
 this should be considered as one that will take your mind off other serious games. For non-gamers, 
 it is a small step that you should take to step into the large world of gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: majesticcryx
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 1, 2007 3:23 am PT
Review:  While our console brethren are currently enjoying something of a motocross racing renaissance, 
 dirt-bike offerings on the PC have been scarce. Fortunately, Microsoft has returned with a white-knuckling 
 sequel to its two-year old Motocross Madness, and despite the obligatory minor quibbles, the game 
 exceeds its predecessor in every department
  
  You get to choose from one of seven indoor and outdoor events, including past favorites such as 
 the stadium-based Supercross, the open-ended Stunt Quarry, Baja racing (outdoors with waypoint 
 gates) , multiplayer Tag and, of course, Nationals, which is more controlled outdoor track racing.
 
  
  The two new modes - and arguably the meat and potatoes of Motocross Madness 2 - are the Enduro 
 and Pro-Circuit races. With the former, imagine the outdoor Baja race, only with dynamic traffic 
 to contend with in settings such as a trailer park, ski resort, jungle, or farmland. Pro-Circuit 
 is the single-player career mode, where you must successfully win races in all of the aforementioned 
 race types and earn prize and sponsorship money to pay for entry fees, bike repairs, new gear/bikes 
 and even medical bills (and once you see the new crash animations, you'll see why you may need 
 a doctor) .
  
  Graphically, the game is absolutely stunning, with highly detailed riders, environments and thousands 
 of 3D objects peppered throughout the landscapes. There are cars, spectators, buildings, low-flying 
 airplanes, ski lifts, trees, hay bales, and much more. Resolutions top 1600x1200, and though a 
 3D accelerator card is not required (as it was with the first game) , it's highly recommended. Even 
 more impressive is the fact the framerates don't take much of a hit.
  
  Speaking of hits, the animations are so lifelike you'll either cringe or laugh your ass off when 
 you see one of your opponents gets squashed by a bus or slammed by a freight train in the Enduro 
 mode.
  
  Regrettably, there are only a small handful of bikes to choose from, from manufacturers like Honda, 
 Yamaha, and KTM and a handful of fictional brands, sporting engines ranging from a modest 125cc 
 to the powerful 600cc. Worse still, I felt very little difference between the bikes, even when 
 I tweaked a few settings in the garage. Other beefs: with the handling, at times I wasn't sure 
 how much the designers were trying to make an arcade game or a simulation. Certainly, 500-foot 
 high jumps and 180-degree turns at more than 100 mph is hardly realistic, but at other times you'll 
 crash far too often by landing a tad off-center, or be thrown out of a Supercross track due to 
 a slight change in rhythm.
  
  Engine sounds are awesome, but the gameplay could use some music. I felt an emptiness while playing, 
 especially while outdoors enjoying the Stunt Quarry or Enduro modes. Microsoft could've at least 
 given us the option to play our own CDs or import MP3s or WMA file. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: petrolhead
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 14, 2007 11:27 pm PT
Review:  this is a freaking awsome game i love it so much. i got it through a thing at school ages ago but 
 ive only started playing heaps now. the graphics arent the best compared to other games today but 
 this is still an extremely fun game to play and the gameplay is awsome. i love the big open areas 
 and if u get to the very edge and up the sides you get flung back to the middle of the area. crazily 
 great game. AAA+++... cant say much else great game A A A A A A A + + + + + 
::::::

::::::
UserName: heaveyness
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 1, 2006 1:13 pm PT
Review:  The good: For it's time a great looking game, great gameplay great fun!
  
  The bad: The stunts are put off much to slow so you will have difficulties with landing them. You 
 fall of your motorcycle pretty easely.
  
  As a kid, my dad tried to make me a motorcross driver. I had fun but after a few years I got fat 
 up with it, to my fathers deepest regrets.. Nevertheless, it allways stayed a little part of me, 
 it's just a cool sport all together! :-) So, more then 7 years ago, I played Motorcross madness 
 at a friends place and I loved it. So, 7 years later, I decided it was time to pick up the good 
 ol&acute; days and got me the sequel to that game. ;-)
  
  I'm amazed about the fact that all those years ago, I found the game so difficult. It's really 
 easy when you get the feeling of it. The only thing that the game doesn't deliver well are the 
 tricks you can pull of. The tricks start really late after you pressed the trick button, and are 
 shown really slow, which causes you to fall very frequently. That's a real pain, because the stunt 
 courses are the most fun. Thow they have also some negative points; The most important is the small 
 variety of good jump places were you can actually pull of and land the tricks. Also, the terrain 
 is filled with trees which you hit really easy, thow you can put out the hit trees thingy in the 
 options section.
  
  The sound and graphics are decent. A little bit better then a regular Psx I guess. To bad the game 
 doesn't have a soundtrack with great rock music or such.
  
  To bad you can make your own track, thow when have you made a track that was easy and fun to ride 
 anyway? Fun game, just for goofing of pick a race real quick. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xtreme_Man1ak
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 28, 2005 4:31 am PT
Review:  Stunt Tag is without a doubt my fave gametype.. its just amazing and fun (especially playing with 
 all your friends on Zone. com) .. it can be competitive and fun all in one with tourneys and random 
 games. The small community really helps you make friends fast.
  
  I have not really played the other game types like Nats or anything very often, but they as well 
 are fun, im just not into racing games
  
  Overall, this is one of those technologically sub-par games but incredibly fun to play (kinda like 
 NHL 94 for Sega Genesis, which I still play everytime my step-bro is at the same house as me) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Epicsoldier
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 7, 2004 2:30 pm PT
Review:  Awesome Squel to an already awesome game, and lots of fun to play. Lots for tracks and HUGE tracks 
 at that, the stunt part of this game is awesome, and very fun just to drive around ramping everything. 
 There are plenty of bikes, alot of bikes really, and the actaul motocross racing is fun, the A. I 
 isn't stupid, and can be hard at times, the tracks are very creative, and the sounds of the bikes 
 and traffic (etc) are done good, the graphics have been bumped up (in a good way) . Overall this 
 game is very well done. I just wish they would have done a Motocross madness 3.... 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
