-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Moto Racer 3
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/driving/motoracer3/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar  4, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.2
Critic Score: 6.9, 13 Review (s)
User Score: 7.6, 163 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Atari
Developer: Delphine Soft.
Genre: Motocross Racing
Date:     Jan 31, 2002 &raquo;  
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
In attempting to be all things to all PC motorcycle enthusiasts, Moto Racer 3 isn't quite as enjoyable 
 or as polished as it could have been. 

 Released six years ago by Electronic Arts, the original Moto Racer capably blended the two distinct 
 disciplines of superbike and motocross into one explosive package and proved to be one of the first 
 truly satisfying PC motorcycle racing games ever produced. 1999's Moto Racer 2 offered numerous 
 new perks and even more options, yet it failed to deliver an appreciably better ride at a time 
 when motorcycle racing was really beginning to take off with the likes of Microsoft's Motocross 
 Madness. Now, with Moto Racer 3, returning developer Delphine Software and new publisher Infogrames 
 have upped the ante considerably by somehow squeezing almost every conceivable form of two-wheeled 
 competition on a single disc. From speed-drenched blacktop racing to dirt-encrusted supercross 
 and motocross, trick-crazy freestyle, painstaking trials, and even a certifiably suicidal "traffic" 
 mode, the game seemingly covers all the bases. Unfortunately, it also feels awkward and incomplete. 
 In attempting to be all things to all PC motorcycle enthusiasts, Moto Racer 3 isn't quite as enjoyable 
 or as polished as it could have been.           Blasting through the traffic of downtown Paris 
 is not part of a healthy lifestyle.    

  That's not to say it is not without its charms, the foremost of which is its stunningly diverse 
 selection of racing alternatives. In speed mode, you'll hurtle through long and accommodating paved 
 racecourses at breakneck speed, the wind buffeting your helmeted head as you negotiate wide straightaways 
 and huge sweeping corners. In supercross/motocross mode, you'll bounce and be bounced over a series 
 of sadistically undulating dirt tracks, thrilling to the inevitable air time you'll experience 
 yet struggling to keep your tires on the ground, where they can translate the power you so dearly 
 want to apply. As a freestyle rider, you'll use ramps, knolls, moguls, and whatever other launching 
 devices you'll find strewn about the vicinity to grab the biggest air and perform the most death-defying 
 stunts before the constantly ticking timer counts down to zero. In the trials mode, you'll slowly 
 and meticulously balance and maneuver your steed over an obstacle course designed to topple you 
 to the ground at just the slightest miscue, and in traffic mode you'll blitz through the virtual 
 streets of downtown Paris, trying to outride your single opponent to the finish line without first 
 being beaten into escargot by a frenzied Parisian rush-hour motorist.   

  If all this sounds like fun, that's because it often is. Moto Racer 3's physics model and track 
 designs are simplistic enough for absolute rookies yet not so primitive as to completely alienate 
 experienced players. Its racing parameters are extremely varied and downright exhilarating. Certainly 
 the raw sense of speed of its traffic mode and the raw sense of flight in supercross/motocross 
 are almost worth the price of admission. Almost. The sad truth is that from start to finish, Moto 
 Racer 3 gives the impression that it quite probably should have undergone extensive additional 
 tweaking before being pushed out the door.           Moto Racer 3's trial mode is an exacting discipline 
 that requires tons of patience.    

  Just loading the game is a chore. You'll sit through at least a half-dozen introductory animations 
 before the first in-game interface appears and then sift through two or three more interfaces to 
 get to the good stuff. Loading an actual event isn't quite so painful, yet exiting a completed 
 race is virtually impossible without first tolerating nearly a half-minute of postrace pageantry. 
 And should you decide to access user options, be prepared to endure one of the most unusual menu 
 systems in the business. For starters, most important universal preferences, such as display, audio, 
 and control setup, are accessible only through an external utility. Some basic preferences may 
 be adjusted via a series of hotkeys, yet the really important modifications must be enacted before 
 you launch the program. Worse still, all event, mode, and bike options are spread across an inconvenient 
 jumble of interfaces that force you to clumsily shuffle between them just to view rudimentary information. 
   

  Unlike its immediate predecessor, which featured a total of 32 circuits and a track construction 
 kit for pumping out even more, the game features just 15 -- three per mode -- and no track-creation 
 facility. Nor does it provide environmental, time-of-day, or reverse-track variables. When you 
 race outdoors in Moto Racer 3, the weather is always bright and dry and the days never end. The 
 lack of long-term championship or career modes is particularly bizarre. Each time you contest an 
 event, you do so individually and with just one motivation -- accumulating "points," which are then 
 used to unlock new tracks and faster machines. You can't even use those points to upgrade your 
 bike with a selection of fancy new parts, as no such parts exist.    

 The game's presentation is just as inconsistent. Its racing environments are clean and colorful 
 with generous decaling, signage, track textures, and offtrack periphery. Its bikes are believable 
 and nicely rounded where they should be, and the mounted riders move about in their seats to mimic 
 their real-life counterparts. Smoke and mud pour from tortured tires, airplanes and blimps roam 
 through the skies, and oddly out-of-place cheerleaders flaunt their pom-poms. Yet especially when 
 compared with recent graphical showpieces like EA Sports' Superbike 2001, Moto Racer 3 seems all 
 too average. Superbike's wonderfully realistic source-sensitive lighting is sorely missed, as is 
 its intricate level of motorcycle detail. Riders in Moto Racer 3 do not gun the throttle or offer 
 gloved fists to offending competitors, and machinery does not break apart or exhibit damage after 
 a crash. Granted, precious few motorcycle games have ever represented their machines in less-than-showroom 
 condition, yet the potential for carnage would definitely have been appreciated. In-game audio 
 is only fair, with the highlight being the loud and whiny whirr of your own motor. Competitor engines 
 do not scream with the anger they would on a real track, and mechanical and environmental effects 
 are virtually nonexistent.           The first-person perspective comes complete with a reflective 
 windscreen.    

  The most damaging graphical problem is the game's frame rate, which often chugged and sputtered 
 on our Athlon XP 1600+/GeForce 2 test computer. Reducing the resolution from the preferred 1024x768 
 to 800x600 and removing antialiasing markedly improved the situation, although by doing so, we 
 lost much of the clarity and graphic detail we would have otherwise enjoyed. And even then, the 
 game slowed noticeably at the slightest hint of tire smoke and exhibited clipping in the speed 
 mode.   

  Riding a Moto Racer 3 bike is, in a word, interesting. The only motorcycle game to offer such a 
 diversity of disciplines, it demands that you learn how to control your mount through dirt and 
 on pavement when entering and exiting jumps and while perched perilously on tiny obstacles. And 
 clearly, some modes are superior to others. Speed mode, for example, is a high-velocity blast speckled 
 with seemingly talented AI competitors who race smartly and go out of their way to avoid bumping 
 incidents. Learning your way around the game's surprisingly intricate and effective garage facility 
 is almost mandatory when you increase the difficulty level and opponent speed, yet there's no denying 
 that this mode is generally geared toward arcade simplicity rather than simulation complexity. 
 There's also no denying that a trio of tracks is far too few.   

  Wandering through the roadblocks and traffic of Paris is equally stimulating, although the streets 
 are frightfully thin and the hurried motorists frightfully dim-witted. As a result, you may end 
 up crashing so frequently that you may want to forever curb your city racing. Freestyle's big bag 
 of tricks is intriguing not only for its serious aerial potential but also because it demonstrates 
 just how realistically your bike's suspension system compresses and extends. Sadly, Delphine has 
 positioned the default trick-producing keyboard hotkeys in such a manner that the really high-scoring 
 stunts are inordinately difficult to perform without first growing 10-inch fingers. Thankfully, 
 tricks can also be initiated through the joystick, although you wouldn't know it by checking the 
 printed manual.           Moto Racer's supercross/motocross mode is a stomach-churning good time. 
    

  The trials segment, where you'll vainly attempt to balance and meticulously inch your bike over 
 various obstacles, will more than likely seem like a curious sideshow to anyone who can't control 
 their patience. Conversely, high-flying supercoss/motocross is a howl. Its assortment of venues 
 is once again limited to three, but there's a lot of variety here nonetheless and enough challenge 
 to force several additional trips to the game's exceedingly valuable garage. And certainly, you'd 
 better learn the particulars of front-to-rear weight shifting if you ever plan to succeed over 
 these wildly undulating circuits.   

  Moto Racer 3 successfully combines five extremely unique motorcycle disciplines into one convenient 
 package and delivers a substantial helping of thrills and spills. However, it is not nearly as 
 deep as it initially appears or as sophisticated as a third installment should be. Nor does it 
 offer an online matchmaking service or dedicated server for multiplayer competition, relying instead 
 on eight-player LAN and old-school Internet TCP/IP connections, whereby you must know your partner's 
 locations beforehand. For these reasons, Moto Racer 3 may hold more appeal for motorcycle newcomers 
 and younger audiences than seasoned veterans.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Gamerichard
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 15, 2005 10:33 am PT
Review:  I've never played a MotoRacer game before this one. MotoRacer 3 looked very promissing in the store. 
 And when I first started playing it, it really looked fantastic. But I was soon going to find out 
 it wasn't that much entertaining after all. 
  
  
  The graphics is okay. And lighting effects is there a large number of. The game has a little bit 
 to many graphical bugs, but is okay. 
  
  The tunes are good. Someone can be a little bit to intense, but that's just how the "motorcycle 
 music" is. 
  
  The gameplay is where the game really impresses and lacks. There are 5 different types of motorcycling 
 in the game and that's very cool. The traffic, SX/MX and speed is the only ones that really is 
 playable. Traffic is very entertaining indeed. Driving in the streets of Paris driving in 250 km/h 
 and just wooshing past the cars is fantastic. But the game is all to easy and I'll suppose you'll 
 finish it in about 2-3 hours and that's awfull. There are only three tracks in each motorcycle 
 mode and I must say the game could have been fantastic if it wasn't for the lack of tracks and 
 difficulty level. 
  
  + 
  Great entertaining in the traffic mode. Great speeding feeling in speed and traffic mode. 5 different 
 motorcycle types: SX/MX, Speed, Traffic, Freestyle and Trial. 
  
  - 
  The difficulty level is awfull. There are to few tracks to chouse from. To many graphical bugs. 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
