-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Motor City Online
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/driving/motorcityonline/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 21, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.6
Critic Score: 7.3, 8 Review (s)
User Score: 8.6, 136 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Games
Genre: GT / Street Racing
Date:     Oct 29, 2001
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Motor City Online delivers on its potential, but it's most definitely not for casual online gamers 
 or those whose patience is easily taxed. 

 When Electronic Arts first announced plans for Need for Speed: Motor City two years ago, it sounded 
 like a racing buff's dream -- and for good reason. Imagine a persistent-world gameworld such as Ultima 
 Online or EverQuest, blended with the high-powered action of the Need for Speed series and soaked 
 in the atmosphere invoked by movies like  American Graffiti  and  Two Lane Blacktop , and it's 
 easy to see why the news of its development caused such a stir. The game would offer players the 
 chance to buy, sell, and trade cars and parts to build their own fast, flashy rides from the golden 
 age of automobiles, then hang out talking trash in joints like Roxy's Diner and the Roadkill Cafe 
 as they waited to blow the next challenger off the line or hook up a new member for their car club. 
 It sounds tantalizing, and in many respects Motor City Online (or MCO for short -- EA Games switched 
 titles shortly after news of the game's development) delivers on its potential, but it's most definitely 
  not  for casual online gamers or those whose patience is easily taxed.           Motor City Online 
 lets you get behind the wheel of dozens of vintage cars.    

  One of the first issues many will have with MCO will come at the checkout counter: The game carries 
 a $40 sticker price, and for your money you get a flashy box, a jewel case, a CD, and a month's 
 free play -- but no manual. All the documentation is accessed online either from the MCO software 
 or the MCO Web site, and the process of getting answers to specific questions can be tedious even 
 for those with broadband access. It's nice that EA Games is offering all of the documentation online, 
 especially since the service will have new features and rules as it evolves. But there should have 
 been  some  help to turn to offline, especially for the less mechanically inclined who find themselves 
 struggling to turn their initial junker into a car that can make it around the street courses at 
 decent speeds without constantly spinning out of control. Also, some info from the MCO "knowledge 
 base" is already outdated. For instance, it says you can have up to three personas per server, 
 when you actually can have only one.   

  After you first log on, you get to choose a persona to represent you online. There's a pretty good 
 variety -- guys can choose from models like townie, mohawk punker, runty rebel, beefcake greaser, 
 and many more, while the ladies can opt to be play as a rocker chick, go-go gal, mademoiselle oo 
 la la, and halter topper bopper, to name just a few. As you pick a name and change your clothes 
 colors, a radio blasts out guitar-soaked instrumentals -- everything from twangy surf tunes and gritty 
 blues numbers to some "wacka-wacka" funk.   

  From there it's on to buy your first car, and it's then you run into the game's first anomaly: 
 Why are you given only three pathetic choices -- a Bel-Air, a Fairlane, and a Ranchero (all '57s) -- for 
 your first vehicle? Because you can actually race and earn money without owning a car (more on 
 that later) , the wise person might try to save the $8,000-plus these death traps cost and sock 
 it away toward a  real  car, but no dice: You  must  buy one.   

  To be fair, MCO wouldn't be much of a game if all the great cars were available right off the bat 
 (even in stock form) , because the whole point is to encourage a thriving online economy, and the 
 best way to do that is to leave users with no choice but to lay it on the line and race for cash. 
 But there are two problems: The first is that EA Games should have figured a way to provide a few 
 more choices from the get-go, and the second is that it seems hardly anyone earns money and the 
 points needed for level advancement (which leads to higher weekly paychecks and eventually unlocked 
 tracks) by actually racing the car they bought.           Unfortunately, you'll have to start out 
 with a really humble set of wheels.    

  Here's how it works. There are four major classes of races: street, circuit, time trials, and drag 
 races. In any of them you can choose an open race where you drive your own car, a sponsored race 
 where you choose from a predetermined selection of common vehicles, or a club race against another 
 team (both of you drive your own cars) . Theoretically, the fastest way to build a bankroll is to 
 run open races because the purses can be larger, but hardly anyone is willing to do it. One reason 
 is the classifications aren't narrow enough -- you can limit horsepower to under 300, for instance, 
 but there can be a lot of variance in that class, and it's quite easy to find out you don't stand 
 a chance against a more souped-up car. Another is that any damage you incur must be repaired out 
 of pocket, but the expenses are so small that shouldn't stop anyone from giving it a go.   

  Time after time we tried to start an open street race, but no one would join and no one would 
 create one. So we headed over to the circuits and finally got  one  person to join in -- but when 
 we changed the number of participants to two to reflect the smaller field, the game automatically 
 added two computer-controlled racers who thrashed both of us. It's a double whammy: A computer 
 opponent wins human players' cash, and the computer opponent didn't have to pay an entry fee! When 
 we asked tech support about this, we were simply told that computer opponents would be added whenever 
 there weren't enough humans, and that was that. That's no problem in the sponsored races because 
 the cars are all equal, the physics are more forgiving, and the computer's artificial intelligence 
 can be more easily beaten (especially on circuits) . But until you get a really good personal car, 
 it's just not worth the risk. Anyone who's searched for an open circuit or street race in Motor 
 City Online will soon realize that they're very few and far between.    

 So what happens is that many players tend to run sponsored circuit races (sponsored street races 
 only yield experience points) or, even better, sponsored time trials. These are an easy way to 
 rack up cash quickly -- no waiting on humans to join and select cars, and you can easily pick up 
 between $150 and $200 every two or three minutes with a decent showing (more on harder tracks) . 
 But here again, you won't even think about running the  open  time trials because the game doesn't 
 take into account what class your car is in when computing your run. If you enter the open time 
 trial in the Bel Air Grand Prix, for instance, you're going up against cars that could have superb 
 handling and 200hp more than you do, and you have no hope of finishing high enough to make it worthwhile. 
 Instead, to gain cash more quickly, the vast majority of beginning players will run sponsored time 
 trials -- again, in common cars with more forgiving physics, which makes it even harder to get acclimated 
 to the more realistic handling of personal cars when you finally make enough money to get a better 
 car you feel comfortable racing.           Sponsored races are probably the simplest way to make 
 some money.    

  What about the drag races? This would seem to be the great equalizer because races can be handicapped 
 with dial-in times, but in our many visits to the two drag strips we saw a lot of strange things 
 happen. You might find that the announcer will indicate an opponent redlined, but when you finish 
 the run you'll learn you really lost. We also noticed our elapsed times during practice runs didn't 
 correlate closely with what we got during real races, and often we set our dial-ins too low and 
 gave our opponents too much of a lead. Still, this does seem to be where most of the real action -- racing 
 for big-ticket purses or pink slips -- is going down.   

  The issue of latency has always been a sticky wicket for any online racing game, and MCO is no 
 exception. When a broadband user squares off against opponents with dial-up connections (or, even 
 worse, an AOL dial-up connection) , there's no telling what sort of magic will take place -- cars 
 disappearing and reappearing, bouncing up and down on the track as though it were a trampoline, 
 and sometimes shooting from behind to win a race when you thought you'd left them in the dust long 
 before. Perhaps these things are to be expected -- at any rate, anyone who gets too ripped up over 
 them should probably find another online game to try.   

  What isn't to be expected, on the other hand, is the feeble attempt the game's interface makes 
 to address the latency issue  before  it becomes a problem. There are currently four MCO servers 
 where you can have a persona, but when you log on you aren't shown what your latency is to each 
 one. And while your opponents' latencies are displayed via color codes  during  a race, you're 
 given no idea what the latencies are as you sit in the chat room before the race starts. If you 
 knew that info ahead of time, many of the races that end up as wild smash-'em-ups because of lag 
 could be avoided.   

  Though the box proclaims you'll eventually be able to buy T-Birds, Stingrays, Cobras, GTOs, Camaros, 
 'Cudas, and Firebirds, we couldn't find any of those for sale on two servers, either in current 
 or completed auctions or at the auto lot. The auction interface is rather clunky: There are six 
 auctions run by the service and one user-based auction, and after checking out one you're returned 
 to the main menu and must start all over. Another problem with the auction interface is its small 
 screens -- to view all 197 cars being auctioned by users on one server, we had to scroll through 
 nine very laggy screens. All this could be streamlined with a filter to display only certain makes 
 and models (you can at least sort the full lists that way) , so one can only hope that this will 
 be an improvement in an upcoming patch.   

  Even if we did find an attractive car, it probably wouldn't have mattered. The lone Mustang we 
 saw being auctioned was running upward of $267,000, and while we saw users online with $2 million 
 or so in the bank, it's hard to imagine an average player coming up with this kind of money.   
         Motor City Online can be frustrating, but should appeal to hard-core racing fans.    

 
  Despite all these issues, a funny thing happened on the way to the finish line. Despite a nonracing 
 interface that's unwieldy and cluttered, and the fact that Roxy's Diner and the Roadkill Cafe are 
 nothing more than chat rooms rather than cool 3D environments, there are times when MCO just sucks 
 you in. It's especially tempting on the weekends, when the servers are heavily populated and there's 
 always somebody ready to run -- even if it is around that same dirt track at the fairground or the 
 Gearborn Tri-Oval. You can spend hours trying to scrape up enough cash to juice up your wretched 
 Ranchero. Before long, you'll be getting invitations to join car clubs, where you can compete in 
 a "turf war" to claim a track as your own and earn extra cash. It's a time-consuming game, but 
 it can certainly be fun.   

  MCO probably won't satisfy the Grand Prix Legends or NASCAR 4 crowd accustomed to near-perfect 
 authenticity in their racing games, because EA took some creative license in determining car weights 
 in an attempt to balance gameplay. But there's no denying that MCO theoretically lets you build 
 a screamer that's pure fun to drive -- just don't plan to earn one in a sitting or two. If you're 
 into racing and, perhaps more importantly, into trying to find bargains to squeeze more horsepower 
 or handling out of a custom-built ride, you'll probably find it easy to look past MCO's shortcomings 
 and immerse yourself in its wild, weird world.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (13 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: jerrysavast
Rating: 10
Date: May 14, 2008 2:42 pm PT
Review:  This Was An Awesome Game I Always Think About It.
  Why It Went Off-line ill never no the game was unbelivable a 10 in
  my book i was yngwie the 
 #1 racer on redlight dis every week i miss my pay check lol then the shelbys cam out and i was 
 #1 Again In Most Tracks I Miss this game so much i still have my steering wheels and pedals in 
 the basement
  hopeing it will come back 1 day everybody was so pissed off when they shut it down i still have 
 screenshots of all my cars the game was so awesome
  im sure alot of you's will agree w/me someone pick up this game PLZ...
  Hope to see you all on 
 MCO my spelling sux but OHWELL My Racing PWNS
  FACE........ MCO MCO MCO MCO MCO MCO MCO MCO MCO MCO MCO MCO
  MCO MCO MCO MCO MCO MCO MCO MCO 
 MCO MCO MCO MCO MCO MCO MCO MCO MCO MCO MCO MCO MCO MCO MCO MCO MCO MCO MCO MCO 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blueglitchman
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 23, 2007 3:00 pm PT
Review:  This was the best and only online game I truly loved. BRING IT BACK SOMEONE! Come on NCSoft... 
 you should pick it up! I truly loved how immersive this game was and how the clubs were set up. 
 By the end my club was sharing with each other and we all had a great time. I truly miss this game 
 and now NFS game has been this good since. Where did EA's quality in games go these days? Oh... 
 right... they are only in it for the money now. I beta tested Auto Assault for NCSoft and the game 
 was pretty good, it didn't have the same amount of user interaction though. I believe NCSoft could 
 pick up this idea and make the Motor City universe great once again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CatPainTypo
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 9, 2006 7:33 am PT
Review:  I wish they could have created a alternative to playing online so that we could continue to race 
 and tune our beloved Muscle Cars. The game was great. The community was very good. I was addicted. 
 I am still suffering withdrawals today.
  
  I even miss the Test Center Server. That was pretty awesome. You could level up so fast, get to 
 test some of the new parts, and all the other parts that you could just buy that weren't available 
 on the regular servers.
  
  I loved the fine detail that you could customize your car. I have to say my favorite car... was 
 my '65 Citrus Flame Mustang. It was one of the gift cars that the game gave out. I think I got 
 a Bel-Air for July 4th and a Ford Truck with the Christmas paint. I did like the trucks being added 
 in, but i have to agree, the imports had no home in the spirit of the game.
  
  I wish i could just install the game and magically connect to the server and race again. But its 
 gone. ... But not forgotten. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blainescott8785
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 22, 2006 4:57 am PT
Review:  I want this game back up!! was best online driving game, I wish EA would bring this title back 
 or make another one just liike it, the old muscle cars is what made this game so great! 
  Is there any other game today that compares to this game? 
  The only downfall in my opinion was 
 when they tried to bring in the newer cars, its been dead for years now and I look at screenshots 
 and I get the itch to want to play the game again! 
  We need to make a petition and send to EA so they can hopefully develop a todays motor city online! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StrayCat
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 20, 2006 7:01 am PT
Review:  I waited along time to play this game, and after these 4 years of it being gone I still miss it. 
 I had my own music for each era of car I owned playing on the radio while I drove around. I had 
 a team of 6 guys from work that I used to race with, and made alot of friends playing this game. 
 Yea, the NFS games are fun, but nothing compares to having the perfect setup for the type of track 
 you wanted to race. I still remember flipping my Nomad over and winning a dirt race on my roof, 
 and sliding into the electric pole at the finish line. Man that costed me some cash. 
  
  They had a good concept, I think the publicity the game never got was what really made it suffer 
 the most. Most of the people I talked to in the game, were car mechanics, racers, and just lovers 
 of the old cars. The market for instant gratification, no repair bills, and couch potato racers 
 is what sells these days. This game had a good loyal following including the guys that were behind 
 the scenes fixing the bugs, and still trying to find time to race WITH us. Not sitting behind a 
 screen playing god to a crowd of skilless misfits. This game took driving skill, a real world skill, 
 and played it very nicely. 
  
  Besides what can be better than racing stock 59 cadillacs 4 laps around a city. The person with 
 the least damage wins. 
  
  10 bones a month to drive around cool cars, listen to cool music, and make good friends. 
  
 
  I will give EA some credit. At least they killed it, and told us. Not like SOE's torture chamber 
 effect they did on SWG. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vatslav
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 15, 2006 7:31 am PT
Review:  I just wanted to express how much I still miss this game. Even after nearly 4 years I still think 
 about it regularly! :- ( 
  It was the best racing sim ever made (in my honest opinion) . I can't believe EA shut it down and 
 released Sims Online (WTF?) :- (
  I really, really miss MCO!!!!!!!!! Please bring it back!! :- (
  I hope I will find a game as good 
 as Motor City Online some day and I would gladly pay 30 bucks a month, if thats what it takes! 
 I am crossing my fingers / praying, that Test Drive Unlimited will remind me of MCO when released.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: grae530
Rating: 7.4
Date: Mar 20, 2006 11:47 am PT
Review:  The idea of this game was great, but I dont think it ever really caught on. You could race your 
 friends or new people you just met, betting for just a small amount of money to your whole car 
 that you spent hours building up. I was addicted to this game always trying to get the fastest 
 best car available. It was a lot of fun, but slowly I began to lose interest and when I realized 
 that I was still paying $10 a month for a game I hardly play, I dropped it fast. As also I believe 
 a lot of other people did as well. Now of days you cant find Motor City Online in any store shelf, 
 and you cant even trade it in for a few bucks.
  
  Fun game, just hasnt lasted. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andres_t73
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 16, 2006 6:22 am PT
Review:  Cuando piensan reeditar este juego los idiotas de EA ??? O piensan que lo reemplazaron con los 
 NFS Underground ??!!!
  Si no pueden mantener el servidor permtanos descargar los archivos y armar nuestros propios servidores 
 !! Este juego era perfecto, no existe ningn otro juego de Muscle cars que se le parezca !
  EA se olvido que existen miles de fanticos de estos autos !
  Piensan que lo voy a reemplazar 
 con un jueguito de autos modernos que ni siquiera se abollan al chocar ?
  Parece que EA en lugar de evolucionar se dedica a involucionar, como se les ocurre hacer desaparecer 
 un juego como este, que aun hoy no tiene reemplazo.
  No hay ningn juego que se le parezca, ni siquiera alguno single-player.
  
  EA, son unos IDIOTAS, 
 abran los ojos y devulvanos nuestro juego !!!!!!!
  
  Aguante MCO !!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Daniman
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 17, 2006 9:52 pm PT
Review:  This was one of the games i couldnt stop playing because i love muscle and also liked to meet new 
 friends and have fun .Buying cars modify them was a lot of fun i just was that Ea would give as 
 a Mco 2 sighs but mostly they spend time on that stupid The sims online which has a lot of worst 
 graphic then had mco had brilliant graphics :) and i really miss that game so bad that theres really 
 no replecement for this game ok guys. I was on Midtown as Hell Rider and Zetor and one day before 
 game died my hard drive died so i lost whole my pictures : (... BUT IT WAS WORTH TIME SPEND take 
 care guys 
  cya 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Firebird682
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 24, 2006 7:16 pm PT
Review:  man i miss this game, best game i've ever played. EA LISTEN TO US! RE OPEN THE SERVERS TO MCO OR 
 SELL IT OFF TO A BETTER COMPANY! i still cant believe that EA closed this for The Sims... whoop-di-do 
 i have a guy on my computer, i want to make him eat some food... you suck EA., your only accomplishment 
 was MCO and YOU SHUT IT DOWN. thanks for the wanna be riceburner games with coffee can mufflers 
 and wheels that look like crap. need for speed underground/most - wanted is just complete garbage 
 compared to MCO. mco was god of all racing games, better than GT 1,2,3, and 4. BRING IT BACK EA! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slojoe74
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 21, 2006 4:46 am PT
Review:  this game was awsome! EA made a bad call droppind the site and a million people would still be 
 playing it if it were still up and running. keeping my disk just incase EA gets smart and reopens 
 the site.!!! HINT HINT. other than that all i can say is it is the best game ever produced .and 
 the fact that they had the cars down almost perfect! exept the imports (those were a bad addition) just 
 keep your fingers crossed and hope they bring it back everyone i know still has their disks just 
 incase. white knuckle racing without a doubt the best online racing game ever put to the test!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scarecrw28
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 14, 2005 9:04 pm PT
Review:  This game to me was awsome. Not only could I have just about any car I wanted anyway I wanted but 
 I made alot of friends playing this game. Yeah this game had it's flaws, but what game doesn't 
 not everyone likes everything. To me this game was the be all end all. That is till EA pulled the 
 plug. It was fun and to me worth the money spent. With that I'll say this: it was fun while it 
 lasted to bad it was to short.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Epicsoldier
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 7, 2004 2:36 pm PT
Review:  Wasn't much of a fan for paying to play this game, and did it ever make me so damn mad when i got 
 it, to read in VERY fine print that you have to pay to play it online, at the time i only had DIAL 
 UP to :@, so i got maybe 2 months of playing this game and that was it, it just wasn't worth paying 
 for. I'm not saying it's a bad game, it's just it should have been free to play online, and online 
 is the only mode. It was a good game, the graphics were done good, and the gameplay is solid, the 
 sound was done pretty good and it was fun playing againist others, but the online service isn't 
 even up anymore, so don't buy it now, The paying is what dragged this game down... 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
