-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: MotoGP 08
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/driving/motogp08/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Three different series of bikes provide some nice variety.
 Excellent handling physics.
 Great track list.
 Fine sense of speed.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Game physics are sometimes haphazard.
 Career mode only lasts five seasons.
 Limited online options.
 Very little bike/rider customization.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov  7, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 6.8, 6 Review (s)
User Score: 6.7, 128 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Capcom
Genre: Motorcycle Racing
Date:     Oct 28, 2008
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
MotoGP 08 is meat-and-potatoes racing with enough challenge to keep two-wheeled gearheads busy for 
 weeks. 

  After snagging the official MotoGP license from THQ in 2007, Capcom released MotoGP 07 on the PlayStation 
 2; a promising, if far too difficult, rebirth of a game license that had previously thrived in 
 the hands of developer Climax and publisher THQ. MotoGP 08 is Capcom's series debut on the PC (as 
 well as the Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3) . While the game likely won't create a new generation of 
 virtual racing fans, those who have some two-wheeled gaming experience will find a demanding driving 
 model and plenty of stiff competition to keep them busy.  

           Hard-charging AI, three different handling settings, and multiple weather options are 
 combined for a true test of skill in MotoGP 08.      

  There aren't any surprises in MotoGP 08's list of game modes -- you've got the standard list of single-player 
 modes you'd expect from a racing game: Single Race, Time Trial, Championship, Challenge mode, and 
 so on. The highlight on the single-player menu is the Career mode, which gives you a chance to 
 create a rider from scratch and work your way up through three bike racing series (125cc, 250cc, 
 and, the pinnacle, MotoGP) . As you enter races, any points you score by placing high enough in 
 the final results will earn you attribute upgrade points you can apply to one of four aspects of 
 your particular bike: top speed, acceleration, braking, and traction. You can then take your souped-up 
 bike online and enter the competition in online racing events against up to 11 other online riders. 

  While Career mode is certainly the best single-player mode in the game, it has its quirks. First 
 of all, your career ends after five years regardless of how many series championships you've won. 
 Second, once you've selected from the game's various AI and handling difficulty levels, you can't 
 change them for the entirety of your career. This is especially frustrating once you've maxed out 
 your bike and can smoke the easy or medium-level AI opponents. It would have been more user-friendly 
 to give players the chance to tweak options in between seasons to keep up the challenge.  

  This lack of career option flexibility is a shame because MotoGP 08 is all about the challenge. 
 While the learning curve is a bit gentler than in last year's PS2 debut, even an experienced MotoGP 
 vet will find some challenge at the default difficulty level. If you bump that up to hard or champion 
 level, you'll face cunning, hard-charging AI opponents that won't give you an inch; you'll be fighting 
 for every position and having a fine time of it (except when you're cursing out loud at your own 
 lack of skill) .  

  Fans of motorcycle racing games will relish the game's bike physics, which are excellent. There 
 are three handling settings to choose from: easy, advanced, and simulation. With a little track 
 time, MotoGP vets will likely be able to settle in at the advanced handling level with little trouble, 
 but throughout every race, the emphasis on the racing line and careful acceleration out of corners 
 is a hallmark of the game. The advanced handling setting is touchy enough; when riding in the simulation 
 setting, even the slightest error on the throttle while deep in a turn will result in a spill. 
 When running against the upper-tier AI opponents, any mistake you make is magnified by their unyielding 
 aggression, and you'll find yourself in yo-yo battles for position at nearly every corner on the 
 track.  

  While the feel of the bikes in MotoGP 08 is just right, the riding model is not without its problems. 
 The developers have chosen to downplay the consequences of contact between riders. While it is 
 possible to be knocked off your bike by an opponent (and only slightly more difficult to dismount 
 him with some dirty driving) , more often than not, you can run into a rider ahead of you with little 
 consequence. In fact, once you've gotten used it, you can actually use this to your advantage by 
 using a rider ahead of you as some extra braking when approaching a corner too fast. The tracks, 
 too, have their quirks. For example, in some corners, the game will penalize you for cutting corners 
 by instantly slowing your bike down to a crawl. It's a fine idea in theory, but its implementation 
 is inconsistent; with enough experience, you'll know exactly which corners you can take advantage 
 of and which you'll need to play straight.  

  As with the console game, up to 12 players can hop online to race in the PC version of MotoGP 08. 
 Actually getting online is confusing, and neither the game manual nor the game itself does a particularly 
 good job of explaining the process (you need to fill out a form on the game's loading menu) . Still, 
 once you're online, network performance is decent -- even if the lack of features leave you wanting. 
 You can only run races one at a time -- there's no option for virtual championships where players 
 can run multiple races for points -- and can only bring your Career mode bike into a race if the 
 host allows it. Even when using custom bikes, however, there's not much in the way of customization; 
 you're stuck with the actual team leathers and bike paint schemes, as well as a series of unique 
 helmets from which you can choose. In an era of customization in such games as Forza 2 and Midnight 
 Club: Los Angeles, next year's MotoGP game simply must have more options for making your rider 
 appear unique.  

           A fine sense of speed will have you tightly gripping your controller (or keyboard) . Wait, 
 can you grip a keyboard?      

  The game's system requirements are modest, and on the Intel 2.13 GHz machine we ran the game on, 
 the frame rate was solid throughout. That said, the game has its graphical high and low points. 
 Best of all is a thrilling sense of speed (especially on such long, straights tracks as Shanghai 
 and Mugello) that really puts you in the seat of the rider. Unfortunately, decent speed doesn't 
 make up for certain tracks that are simply a bore -- with plain backgrounds and sometimes grainy 
 asphalt textures that aren't impressive. New details, such as the night race at Losail, and the 
 brand new Indianapolis GP track set at the historic Indianapolis Motor Speedway are great additions 
 to the game. The hardcore fans will also find a lot to like with the game's audio presentation; 
 not only is there a big difference among the 125cc, 250cc, and MotoGP bike engines, but individual 
 constructor bikes have an engine sound all their own.  

  A slightly more approachable learning curve coupled with a great deal of challenge means that MotoGP 
 08 provides enough to keep you busy for months to come while not being as punishing on new players 
 as the previous game in the series. Now that the series has moved to the next-gen consoles and 
 the PC, the real work begins. Next year's game must primarily make sure that it has the same suite 
 of offline and online features that players have come to expect from modern racing games. There's 
 a lot to like in MotoGP 08's meat-and-potatoes approach to two-wheeled racing; here's hoping that 
 next year's game offers a more extended menu.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: IonBlaster4
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 6, 2009 5:03 pm PT
Review:  Best of the series. Why? Great graphics, sound, fun opponents, and levels for any beginner, legendary, 
 medium, any player! For a computer though, do not use simulation and arrows keys. You have to buy 
 a controller from radioshack, or else you will loose it every single turn. There are a few glitches 
 in this game, like the flying head glitch during crashes, can get a little annoying. The crashes 
 are good, but arent always what they should be. Sometimes you can come in really fast, and it will 
 act like it came in at 60 mph. Sometimes you come in at 60mph and it acts like you came in 150 
 mph.
  
  The racing is great! All your rider from each class, leaves an unforgettable expierince.. 
  
 
  Have to say its the greatest. You can see the bikes a little off the ground sometimes if you are 
 in the cockpit, and really low to the guys tires, you can see the motorcycle floating. But who 
 cares, only if you get REALLY close.
  
  The wipeouts can get annoying in motogp class because the bikes are so fast and heavy, that if 
 you dont come around a turn fast enough, you will crash it out.
  
  BUY IT!
  
  Rating-9.8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkSjoerd
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 20, 2009 9:04 pm PT
Review:  The movies and trailers gave me the idea this game would look great. But with settings on high 
 I expected better. Not too mention the sound. I started out in the 125cc cup and got myself a KTM 
 bike. Maxing out at 207 km/h the sound of the engine started to loop in a hick up kind of way. 
 Its probably what pissed me off the most.
  Also, I'm not getting a sense of reality. I'd expected it to be more like F1 challenge 99/02. Even 
 in sim mode this game looks like an arcade.
  
  However the racing is fun. Making a touche can give some really interesting effects and it is something 
 I'll will enjoy experimenting with. 
  
  Verdict-
  The sound and graphics really didn't exite me. The racing was fun. But this game wasn't worth the 
 money.
  
  So I'm hoping this sound issue will be fixed later on. But I'm not putting my hopes up 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cyb3rLarrY
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 2, 2008 5:17 pm PT
Review:  The graphics are very nice and the phisics and controls feel realistic but the sound is horrible; 
 it is a pitty that such a good game has such a non realistic sound; also bikes crashes feel real 
 but not quite - I have the feeling that the bike is made of plastic and not metal; it just bounces 
 of the ground like a feather; so if you turn of the sound it is a very nice game; in game cameras 
 are eye catching and breath taking at least when you do 200 mph ! It is a game which I recomend 
 you play when you visit your friends but i don't think it is worth the money except if you are 
 a fan of the series ! At other hand the numerous tracks and tournaments will offer you many hours 
 of gameplay so maybe it is worth buying it; it depends if you are fan of racing games and especially 
 bikes, otherwise go buy the new need for speed undercover, you will be much more pleesed of your 
 choise to spend your money; 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tig1979
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 29, 2008 6:10 am PT
Review:  Quite simply this is the best version of Moto GP we have had for quite some years, climax's last 
 efforts were bug filled and pretty awful, namco's were always a bit too arcadey for Moto GP enthusiasts, 
 so you would look to GP 500 or Moto GP 2 for the better games in the past.
  
  I'll start with the flaws, there are a few but are on the whole minor annoyances more than game 
 killers.
  
  Livery's and the like, there are quite a few graphical mistakes as far as riders go, Rossi's gear 
 is of old, De Puniet's livery is incorrect, but i'm being picky, if your not Hardcore Moto GP these 
 won't bother you. Some of the colours seem slightly faded, example Rossi's luminous yellow's are 
 a bit dull and not as bright as the real thing.
  
  There are a few slight graphical game errors on certain tracks where tree's dissapear reappear 
 infront of your eye's but i would guess they can patch this kinda stuff up.
  
  Ok main thing of any Moto GP game is the controls, was slightly worried with Capcam at the helm, 
 not because Capcom are rubbish as they are far from it and have bought us some immense games in 
 the past, but with their history in arcade games i expected a full on arcade game similar to Namco's 
 past attempts. There is an arcade mode here for casual racers but it's immensely easy, the medium 
 controls are probably the best for most people, hardcore riders will want full sim, but be warned 
 it is hard and like riding a bike, so a big well done to Capcom there.
  
  Gameplay is fantastic, the 2 main modes are career and championship, the latter is a championship 
 as your favorite rider, standard stuff really. Career mode is great you start in the 125cc class 
 and work your way up to 250 and finally moto gp, the better rides you produce the more prospective 
 employers show up for your next season, really well done and fun. The main issue for me though 
 is the credit system and the difficulty jump, start on medium with a crap bike and you can win 
 most of the race's, which to me says too easy, not very often that happens, so bump the difficulty 
 up to hard, different ball game all together, very hard to get anywhere at all, you get credits 
 to distribute to your bike as climax used to do, i hate this system completely, everyone knows 
 what teams are good at what and not so good at others, problem is on hard mode, you get totally 
 annihilated on straights, so put your credits in top speed.... you still get annihilated, they come 
 from 15 bike lengths behind on a normal straight and pass you like your stood still. Really needs 
 looking at.
  
  Sound is average nothing great nothing bad, i'm having some sound issue's where i can hear other 
 bike engines up my backside most of the time but i'm alone on track.
  
  Overall a really good first attempt from Capcom, not perfect but it's a great starting point, as 
 a side note, i wonder if the devs at Blackbean had anything to do with this, if you have played 
 SBK 08 you will notice an awful lot of similaraties. Great starting block for the Moto GP series 
 and hopefully Capcom will stick at it and bring us better titles in the future. I didn't have the 
 recommended specs for this game but it's runs smooth as a nut on total full setting's and load 
 times are very quick. Moto GP fans BUY IT casual racers Rent it first. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
