-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Mount & Blade
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/mountandblade/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Realistic, engaging combat mechanics on both foot and horseback.
 Wide-open gameworld to explore.
 Thorough character stats and skills.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 So open-ended that the game lacks almost any semblance of structure.
 Too many dead-end villages and boring quests, especially early in the game.
 A lot of little bugs and oddities.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 22, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6
Critic Score: 7.4, 25 Review (s)
User Score: 8.8, 1,909 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Paradox Interactive
Developer: www. taleworlds. com
Genre: Computer Role-Playing
Date:     Sep 30, 2008 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Mount & Blade has some innovative ideas, but still needs a lot of work. 

  If all you had to do was fight, Mount &amp; Blade might have been a winner. TaleWorlds Entertainment 
 has come up with one of the most innovative and user-friendly re-creations of combat ever seen 
 in a first/third-person RPG, with exciting battles on foot, mounted on horseback, and at the head 
 of a private army. Unfortunately, this derring-do is only one part of a cheaply stitched-together, 
 single-player-only role-playing game that replaces plot with a sandbox world that leaves you without 
 a clue of what to do or where to go. There is something positive to be said for wide-open RPGs 
 that leave the storytelling up to you, but this game is so incomplete that it'll feel as if you're 
 being asked to script a heroic saga without the benefit of pen and paper.  

           A strong battle engine isn't enough to offset all of the problems with Mount &amp; Blade's 
 fit, finish, and near-total lack of RPG structure.      

  At its center, Mount &amp; Blade isnt so much a structured RPG as an exploration of being stranded 
 in a medieval world. Even though the game gets underway with a detailed character creation process 
 loaded with a D&amp; D level of rigmarole regarding the stats, skills, and personality-establishing 
 questions about your childhood last heard from your shrink, there is no shape to the game beyond 
 that. You roll up as a hero, then head off adventuring in the realistic (meaning no magic or monsters) 
 medieval land of Calradia. There is no story arc whatsoever, so the game begins without a strong 
 sense of purpose to help get you immersed.  

  This isn't to say that there isn't anything to do in Calradia. There is, but you have to do a great 
 deal of wandering around to find it. Removing any sort of story hook from Mount &amp; Blade makes 
 it only appropriate for the hardcore role-playing gamer who plays RPGs just to explore a fantasy 
 land, not to accomplish anything or become an epic-level druid or whatever. When the game starts 
 you're plopped down on the back of a horse in the middle of a vast medieval realm dotted by towns, 
 castles, and the odd river and mountain range. Traveling across this land is easily accomplished 
 on a tactical map of sorts, where you click on the location you want to visit to gallop off toward 
 it. There isn't any guidance provided as to which place you should visit first, so you're left 
 cruising around on a piebald nag with no particular place to go.  

  A lot of background details are present in the game, as Calradia is divided up between four kingdoms 
 and a Middle Eastern-style khanate (a region under the jurisdiction of a khan) , and every lord 
 and king has a listing in an encyclopedia that you can bring up on demand. But these entries aren't 
 entirely thorough, giving you only a brief rundown of the major players in the land. The backdrop 
 is always busy with various wars, villages being looted, and castles being besieged, although you 
 feel more like a hapless spectator than a wannabe hero with anything at stake during all of this 
 conflict. You tend to have to research your possible destinations through bland text write-ups, 
 or to search around in the documentation in the menus to find out why the king of Swadia is attacking 
 the khanate of Kergit. Even then, you generally don't receive a lot of solid answers.  

           You could walk out of your house and trip over a more attractive game than Mount &amp; 
 Blade.      

  Interaction with Calradia is seriously lacking. Quests are available in towns and castles, although 
 their number and location is spotty. Villagers only respond to a canned set of questions about 
 local rumors and what sort of goods are produced locally. Answers are generic listings of local 
 features, so it feels more like you're consulting a travel guidebook for Calradia than actually 
 speaking to a human being. You talk to one peasant, you've pretty much talked to them all. Many 
 times, too, you'll ride over to a nearby village and discover that the locals don't need any assistance. 
 You can easily run into this "Thanks, but no thanks" response in three or four towns in succession, 
 particularly at the start of the game when you're trotting around trying to get the lay of the 
 land. Needless to say, this doesn't exactly whet your appetite to see what else this sandbox world 
 has to offer.  

  What quests are on hand are generally boring. A town elder may ask you to train a few residents 
 so that they can better fight off bandits, or run across the land in search of a certain amount 
 of wheat or butter. A guild merchant may want you to run a cattle drive. Castle lords and kings 
 are also undemanding. In the early stages of the game, all they seem to require are delivery services 
 involving running letters from one nobleman to another and collecting overdue taxes or other debts. 
 Some of these quests involve utilizing character stats and special skills, such as trying to persuade 
 a lord to pony up the cash he owes one of his fellow noblemen. This adds to the game's RPG flavor, 
 although the conversation options are so limited that you'll feel like you're just going through 
 the motions most of the time. More dramatic tasks like ridding regions of outlaws are eventually 
 offered up, but these assignments are so simplistic that all you have to do is ride to a specific 
 location and kill everybody there.     

  It's far more intriguing to skip the scripted quests and go off on your own, as you can actually 
 recruit a whole army of troops to raze towns and besiege castles. You can eventually sign up with 
 a king and start a-conquering on his behalf, then go on to try to take over or destroy pretty much 
 the entire map. Villages give you the option of seeking recruits to ride with you if you can throw 
 down some gold denars to outfit them, which allows the accumulation of a mercenary army in short 
 order. This aspect of the game isn't totally fleshed out, though. Your retinue of troops is only 
 noted on the map screen as a number under your horse. Even if you've got a hundred men in your 
 employ, you never see them unless you're involved in an engagement on the battlefield -- which makes 
 sense, as you wouldn't want a hundred hired goons following you around like those guys in the Verizon 
 ads. Still, it's disappointing that your growing military might is often hidden from view. You 
 can't really control them like an army, either. Orders on the fly are just about nonexistent, which 
 leaves you to simply tell your troops to charge into the fray and help out by cracking a few skulls 
 yourself. Sieges are also scrambly, Keystone Cops-like affairs with too much running around and 
 not enough options for making your way onto castle walls (there's just one ladder, which is absolutely 
 absurd when you've got dozens of men in your army) .  

           While the map screen may make it easy to find your way around Calradia, the lack of a 
 storyline means that much of the time you're wandering aimlessly.      

  Which brings us back to combat. One-on-one fighting is the one place where Mount &amp; Blade truly 
 shines. Instead of the clickfest-centered battles in traditional RPGs, here you actually duel with 
 enemies through interactive attacks and blocks. Battles are all about anticipating enemy assaults 
 and hitting the right mouse button at the right time to fend them off. Then, and only then, you 
 sneak in with counterattacks with the left mouse button. Finer control is available through mouse 
 movement. If you need to block a high attack, you just move the mouse up when clicking the right 
 mouse button. Attacks work in the same way. When a foe leaves himself open to the left, you can 
 direct a thrust there by simply clicking the left button and pushing the mouse to the left at the 
 same time. If you find this level of control too arcadelike, you can switch on auto-targeting and 
 the game anticipates the direction of enemy attacks. This isn't nearly as fulfilling as going it 
 alone, though it does offer more involved combat than that in most other RPGs.  

  All of this lends a realistic block-attack flow to combat that requires you to think before committing 
 to any action. Swinging wildly just winds up leaving you wide open to enemies. Baddies know how 
 to take advantage of poor moves, too. End up off-balance and they hammer the hell out of you, whaling 
 away with three or four attacks in a row that you are helpless to defend against. So there is no 
 way to cheat the system and forgo blocking. Not that you will want to. Fighting here never gets 
 old. It's really easy to get hooked on all of the back-and-forth dueling, and you soon come to 
 wish that you could ditch all of the RPG stuff for nothing but nonstop battles like those in the 
 town arenas where you can hone your skills and make a few bucks. The only drawback to the combat 
 system is how hard it is on the wrist. Enemies circle you at numerous times during battles, forcing 
 you to swivel around a lot to avoid getting stabbed in the back. Such continual side-to-side movement 
 is murder on your mouse wrist. Large-scale battles during major engagements can quickly go from 
 intense and entertaining to carpal tunnel throbbing. Take regular breathers.  

  Just don't use these breaks to play tourist and check out the Calradian countryside. Much of this 
 realm is very, very ugly. There are few details and even fewer geographical features, aside from 
 the ever-present bland rolling hills. One medieval architect seems to have planned the entire land, 
 as castles and towns tend to have the same layout. Just a few basic facial types are spread among 
 the hundreds of non-player characters in the game, so you soon develop a sense of deja vu when 
 speaking to what look to be the same town elders in every settlement on the map. Everything is 
 very, very dark, a problem that cannot be fully corrected by turning up the gamma in the game settings 
 screen. That said, you can still encounter some gorgeous, atmospheric scenes during your adventures. 
 Days progress from morning through afternoon and night during play, which open up stunning vistas 
 where you're surrounded by sunlight and shadow. Sunsets are beautiful, especially when viewed from 
 atop a castle wall, and galloping across the countryside at night under a full moon is drenched 
 in gothic atmosphere.  

           It's too bad that you can't just skip the RPG stuff and go straight to the fighting.  
     

  But these scenes are too often overwhelmed by buggy quirks. Faces and torsos are often completely 
 different colors, so it can look like characters are wearing masks. Towns are sometimes invisible. 
 You can enter them and listen to all of the usual town sounds like dogs barking and people busily 
 working, but it will appear as if you're still walking through empty countryside. Leaving a town 
 for the map screen occasionally causes a bug that transports you outside a castle, only the walls 
 are now paper-thin and floating in midair. TaleWorlds is continually updating the game with patches, 
 although right now the most stable aspect of the presentation is the haunting musical score centered 
 around harp and violin. Most of the tunes here would be the perfect accompaniment for wandering 
 through a Renaissance fair.  

  Those are a lot of negatives, although Mount &amp; Blade really feels more underdeveloped than 
 it does flat-out bad. There are some really promising innovations and design ideas here. It would 
 be intriguing to see what TaleWorlds could do with an Oblivion-sized budget. As it is, though, 
 this RPG provides a lot of sizzle and little steak. It is still worth keeping an eye on, as the 
 developers and an ever-growing mod community are continually enhancing the game. Just don't expect 
 too much right now if you're coming to this indie from more professional games with higher production 
 values.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (202 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: The_Dark_Drake
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 15, 2009 8:53 pm PT
Review:  This game is a strong sandbox game. Being that, it does not have the storyline of Braveheart or 
 the action scenes of Lord of the Rings, but what it does have is accessibility and a strong sense 
 of being able to do whatever you want.
  
  Want to be a trader? Sure thing. Oh, and watch out for bandits.
  
  Want to lead a small band 
 of heroes to take down every bandit in the land? Go for it.
  
  Want to be a powerful warlord who leads the rightful heir to the throne to power, conquering every 
 city in sight? Totally allowed.
  
  The difficulty of the game is entirely customizable and doable on the fly. Feeling like a challenge? 
 Make the enemies deal full damage on swing and make blocking completely manual. Or, if you'd rather 
 take on the 50 looters alone without very much hassle, knock it down to 25% damage and make their 
 AI not know a rock from a badger.
  
  It is all your choice, and you may find yourself forgetting about "pristine" games and sticking 
 with the ones that were made with YOU in mind, and not the budget.
  
  Have fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Humorguy_basic
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 13, 2009 3:18 pm PT
Review:  I put the above headline to get my main point across: Even reviewers giving this game a good score 
 is writing off the graphics. Well, tell me, if you had Oblivion level graphics, what PC would you 
 need to have 200+ man battles?! So let's get the graphics out of the way - they ARE a 9/10 because 
 they are good enough and still allow those 200 man battles!
  
  Gameplay is the king anyway, and this game is so addictive as to be hermit inducing! You can go 
 anywhere or do anything, but as you progress and raise you're own army you get addictive to the 
 power! :)
  
  Sound, for an indie game, is spectacular, and I am always amazed at the quality of music and sound 
 effects - and they don't come across as bland at all - which larger developers can't seem to manage!
 
  
  Given that this game is still being updated, I am glad i helped provide a small part of the income 
 to allow this to come to market. I really hope they become millionaires, because they surely represent 
 what we PC gamers want, developers that care about gaming, that understand gaming, and that can 
 listen and respond to their customers!
  
  Download the (quite expansive!) demo and try it for yourself. This is getting close to what I wanted 
 for 15 years - a3D version of Darklands! Given Darklands is my No.1 favourite RPG of all time, 
 I hope you understand the compliment I pay Mount and Blade when I say it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkrider13
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 7, 2009 6:31 am PT
Review:  Ever wanted an rpg where you could command a company of troops, rule a castle, lead a revolution, 
 or just plain FIGHT ON HORSEBACK! Mount and Blade is the most innovative and addictive game I've 
 played since the original Pirates on the C64. You start with a character in a fictional medieval 
 world after the split of an empire into several factions. No magic or religion to mess things up. 
 The character generation is self-explanatory and you get started pretty quick. You build up your 
 skills through experience and gain renown through battle and quest completion. Once you have enough 
 renown you can join a faction as a lord and can be awarded conquered villages and castles.
  The meat of this game is the combat system which allows you to fight among up to 100 combatants 
 (both sides) . The combat from horseback is handled very well and there are many different troop 
 types and weapons to keep things interesting. Terrain including sieges play a big part of your 
 battle planning and you tactics skill can make a big difference.
  I have only scratched the surface in this review. You can download the game for free and play up 
 to level 7 before registering for about $30.00. This isn't a flashy game, but is all about the 
 gameplay.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: svns_reaper
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 1, 2009 3:06 pm PT
Review:  Ok maybe I'm playing a newer version of Mount & Blade than the reviewer did at GS (I'm playing 
 the latest version 1.011 I believe) but the review here kind of bothered me. A lot of the bugs 
 the reviewer mentioned I have never seen. This game is not highly polished as it was probably made 
 on a limited budget and was actually started by a husband and wife team from Turkey. It could use 
 some more time and money to make it truly great, but I gotta say I am totally addicted to this 
 game. It really is great.
  
  There really is no actual story line here. When you create your hero you are just plopped in the 
 middle of nowhere. So you need to sort of write your own story! I just picked a kingdom that seemed 
 cool and joined up. Then I went to the arena and started bashing some heads to earn some money. 
 These melee fights you can join are a great way to boost your stats early and get some much needed 
 coin. Plus they're funny as hell sometimes. Nothing like smashing some dude in the back who is 
 trying to knock another fighter out.
  
  Like GS reviewer said, the combat is the best part of the game. The game engine takes into account 
 your movement speed, and movement direction to determine the amount of damage you inflict. So if 
 you're on a horse charging some fool and he lets his guard down you can kill in one hit. But if 
 they're running away from you and you land a solid hit it may do barely any damage. It's realistic, 
 it makes sense, and it's very very fun!
  
  Eventually when you get some cash up you can hire a hero or two to come with you. Heroes don't 
 die just like you and you can customize their gear and skills to compliment your party. They do 
 have personalities and may not like other heroes or may get pissed if you loot and plunder too 
 many villages. In addition you can hire mercenaries who are already well equipped and are great 
 fighters or you can recruit volunteers from villages to come with you. As your soldiers are with 
 you they gain experience over time and you can upgrade them. So that recruit you hired for 10 gold 
 a while ago could someday become a full plate wearing knight or a beastly shield wearing killing 
 machine.
  
  The game could have used more production values and the graphics are good in some areas and funky 
 in others. But this can't take away from the game's fun and addictiveness, at least not to me. 
 It's a great game and you'll soon be obsessed with taking over the whole map for your kingdom or 
 for your rebel-assed self!
  
  Plus there's tons of awesome mods out there and they're easy to install. Just check out the Taleworld's 
 website. Trust me if you want a cool medieval rpg you gotta check this out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lamp1973
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 29, 2009 8:22 am PT
Review:  as everybody already mentioned; The battles are just great, especially when you download the Battle 
 Size mod and make them bigger. Indeed the game gets repetitive but you can just change your tactics 
 and keep it interesting. Just keep a few knights around you and try to go a battle of 10 against 
 100 for instance ( this only works on Easy ) . So it is worth the 25 Euro's. already played 50+ 
 hours and still want more. But probably the best part of this game are the numerous Mods that are 
 available. If you don't like the vanilla edition any more just download a mod and have a completely 
 new experience again. For now I am just waiting for the Multiplayer version. I think this will 
 be one of the first games that have Multiplayer with Horses and Swords. They should also be able 
 to have some new origional gameplay compared to the Unreal games 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThePlumpPenguin
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 29, 2009 5:32 am PT
Review:  Mount and Blade has come a long way since it was first released. It has and probably always will 
 be a one kind of a game, where the developers have taken the courage to make something new, different 
 and interesting. The freedom the game allows means that you are unrestricted in what you decide 
 to do and where you wander. The gameplay is unique, different and refreshing as it keeps you on 
 your toes. It has a few bugs, but hey: It has done alot better than many large companies with hundreds, 
 if not thousands of employees at their finger tips. The graphics are good, and certainly do justice 
 to the game (make sure you select direct x9) . If the standard graphics are not good enough, then 
 download graphical enhancement mods which are available (these have almost always been around since 
 version .8) . You can command hundreds of men on the field at once (Again, a mod lets you have more 
 people on, all different, unique units) which can lead to some epic and rewarding battles.
  
  Overall its a great game where you can see an enemy fall to the ground, covered in blood (if 
 you wish) and fall downwards with nice ragdolls. Where else would you get such satisfaction? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: descascaralho
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 24, 2009 6:23 pm PT
Review:  This game was the best Indie game of 2008, there is been around for some time, its preety moddable, 
 there are really nice mods for it and its fun like hell fighting on top of the hourse leading your 
 army to victory,
  Never.. but you never get tired of slashing people.. and with so many mods you can already slash 
  everything and can shoot them too with some mod that included 
 gunpower.. There is even a star wars, and a lord of the rings mod both preety cool and enjoyable. 
 And the best part is that 2009 it will be the year that mount & blade 2 will come out.. Really play 
 the game
  in its native version for a while to get used to.. After that, look on the internet for mods it 
 shouldnt be hard to find and a graphics enahcement pack and the game will be great.. I still stop 
 playing games like resident evil 5 to go and play mount & blade. This is a 9 for the game and a 
 10 to all the community and modders that made this game so great.
  Since its not turn based its not one of those games you say just one.. more turn.. rather you say 
 "just one.. more.. bloody fight." 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OROARKE
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 25, 2009 2:24 am PT
Review:  I've been playing the game for a couple of weeks, which is possibly not enough time to give an 
 in depth review, but I wanted to add my support to the growing number of people who are getting 
 seriously hooked by this game. I wouldn't call myself an expert or hard core player but I do have 
 a fond interest in strategy, role-play and the medieval period. M&B gives you plenty of choices 
 about how you want to play your game, it's not about following someone else's story about characters 
 which do not really mean anything to you. Your relationship with characters develops as you have 
 experiences with them throughout the game.
  
  The combat is just real good fun and has plenty of technique to master so you can hone your skills. 
 I really enjoy building up my band of men with henchmen and regular troops and it can be a great 
 feeling at the end of a really tough battle or siege to look around and hear your troops cheering 
 and punching the air with real adrenaline.
  
  The graphics which some people criticise are ok to me and there are some spectacular skies and 
 scenery. There will obviously be some improvement in the graphics with the release of the expansion 
Warband ". 
  
  During the last few years I have become disillusioned with computer gaming which basically treated 
 players like workers rushing around completing choirs with no real reward or satisfaction. M&B 
 can be played at a pace to suit the player's needs and I really like the automatic pause at the 
 end of your parties move, which allows you to look at options and weigh up what will be your next 
 move. 
  
  To sum up if you are interested in any of the above do yourself a favour and download the demo. 
 Beware this game is very addictive and I spend my days now thinking about what my next moves will 
 be and at what late hour I will be going to bed.
  
  Enjoy
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: eggiebertus
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 12, 2009 7:45 am PT
Review:  This is medieval Sid Meier's Pirates!, and that's great. It looks somewhat like a decomposing Morrowind 
 from 2002, but it's got an intuetive combat system and shapes up as a relatively accurate feudal 
 kingdom simulation.
  
  There is no story at all, not even a cool ''history of yourself'' timeline or something. You do 
 not start with a cinematic involving the kidnapping of your family either; you fill in a number 
 of questions involving your heritage and you're dropped in the middle of one of the Calaradian 
 kingdom's: fictional kingdom 'inspired' by real historical kingdom's or demographic region's. After 
 that you simply start doing what your skills would allow: you can trade a selection of tradeble 
 goods, loot all the villages on the map or start building an honour full renown and join one of 
 the kingdoms as a mercenary and later as vassal of the king. There is also a fun possibility to 
 help one of the throne claimants to their righteous position of royalty. 
  
  The fighting system consists of doing a variety of swings after deflecting a few. It's quick and 
 works well, and is... originally animated. When fighting from horseback you'll get all kinds of 
 damage bonuses for charging/slashing/thrusting at high speed, from the right angle or with your 
 lance coughed. 
  
  There are some original quests that you can do for the various lords in the world, but you'll quickly 
 know them all. Most quest are quick and easy and you'll mainly be using them when you need a friend. 
 The lack of structure is the greatest lack in this game.
  
  Great game, very good but very ugly and a bit unstructured.
  
  Thank You,
  Fleuren
  
 
  (As i walk off, the reader (s) burst into tears and applaud loudly and full of wellmeaningness) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaxtonW
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 5, 2009 12:17 pm PT
Review:  Mount&Blade is one of the best games that I have ever played, honestly. Sure, it might look like 
 crap and the animations suck but if you can forgive the game for that and still play it then you're 
 in for one hell of a ride. The best thing about the game is that it mixes several different gameplay 
 elements into something really good.
  The combat system is really awesome, figthing from the back of a horse is really fun once you get 
 used to it. 
  
  It's also interesting to see how your character develop and there are several ways to play this 
 game, which is something that I really love. It also feels like an MMORPG due to the multitude 
 of other NPCs that act rather intelligent, they attack you when you're weak and try to run from 
 you if they know that you're stronger than them. 
  
  There are lots of things that will keep you busy, you can complete quests, fight in arena tournaments 
 or just harrass villages in order to obtain goods that you can sell for some extra denars.
  
  If you're a fan of RPG and Strategy games and can forgive the game for it's looks then I'm 
 sure that you will enjoy Mount&Blade just as much as I do! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Simeon_Crane
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 5, 2009 12:10 pm PT
Review:  M&B is fun like games used to be. While the graphics are not next-gen, they are adequate, but, 
 graphics is not what this game is about. Remember how games used to be. There was actual substance 
 to them and being fun and addictive was a must. Unlike games today that are all graphics and or 
 story, this game actually lets your live the life of a medival person who is dumped into a warring 
 landscape with battling factions and is delt the task of making the most of themselves. Whether 
 you want to be an outlaw or the renowned owner of castles and villages that pay you, you can do 
 it. If you want to be a trader, a champion tournament warlord or a rebel you can do it. The RPG 
 style inventory, loot and customization of your character and other hireable characters is awesome, 
 satisfying and fun. Download the demo and check this out. I bet you will buy it if you try it and 
 give it 30 minutes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: finisher77
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 1, 2009 10:54 am PT
Review:  I had to post a review to counter the farcical 1-star review two slots below mine. Who gives an 
 obviously pioneering, innovative, perfectly stable game a 1.0? Get that crap outta here.
  
  Anyway, I thought I would post, just so some people don't take a quick glance and see a "1.0" and 
 miss out on one of the greatest games *I* ever enjoyed. If you like party-building games -- i. e., 
 managing the stats and equipment of not just the main character but also a large party -- then 
 Mount & Blade is for you. If you also like action-hack-and-slash style game play -- if you played 
 and liked Blade of Darkness, for instance -- Mount & Blade is going to blow your mind.
  
  The combat in this game is phenomenal. It is NOT button mashing; battles are large, often on horseback 
 (horse riding is extremely well done and completely fun) , and require intense concentration and 
 spatial awareness, good aim using the mouse, quickness, and timing. The melee and ranged-attack 
 systems are both the way they should be. The mouse-based melee control scheme is highly immersive. 
 Combat is very engrossing and very intense.
  
  I have not been this impressed with a game since I cannot remember when. Obviously there are some 
 extreme rough spots, I realize this, I recognize it. But geez, what could be more kick-ass than 
 outfitting a party of knights and archers and what-not, and riding out onto the field of battle 
 in your shining mail or plate armor, and attempting to cut your vicious, bellowing enemies down 
 with your *bardiche*, or impaling them (to devastating effect) with your lance?
  
  It is clear that the 1-star reviewer is drastically uninformed and didn't have the attention span 
 to actually *play* the game enough to see what makes it tick. And then putting up a rating like 
 that; that's dishonest, plain and simple. What are we, five years old here? No, we're not five 
 years old here. What's up?
  
  For instance, that reviewer says "the graphics witch [sic] is almost in squares." Look at the screen 
 grabs for this game and tell me these graphics are "in squares" (bearing in mind that screen grabs 
 on GameSpot nearly always manage to look like they are in 640x480, even for the prettiest games) . 
 The graphics look plenty decent, with good lighting effects, beautiful specularity on the armor 
 and weapons, dust trails rising behind cavalry, and so on. There is attention to detail. There 
 is variety. The character and horse animations are outstanding. Also, weaponry is not just "a bow 
 and a sword" as that reviewer says; this game has many, MANY different types of weapons with many 
 styles of attack. There are one- and two-handed swords and axes with different strengths and weaknesses. 
 There are bows, javelins, throwing axes, crossbows, polearms and lances (which have a special "couched 
 lance" attack when on horseback) , and many others. There are all kinds of shields (available with 
 your own crest, even) . There's armor galore -- from padded cloth to full plate. If you use some 
 of the fantastic mods available from the fan community (and there is a VERY productive fan community) , 
 there are even firearms. Indeed, the mods and the many models for weapons, armor, and horses made 
 available from the fan community, catapult Mount & Blade into an even higher level of play. It's 
 great to begin with; the mods and add-on models make it even better and expand game play substantially. 
 The hours of addictive gaming, the huge replay potential, make this one of the greatest gaming 
 values I have ever experienced. Talk about getting your money's worth.
  
  Sheesh. Play the game for more than an hour, then review it. OK? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GRoss_1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 28, 2009 7:08 pm PT
Review:  Got this game about 3 weeks ago, and since then I played it for 50+ hours. While it lacks any storyline 
 (might be a huge disappointment for some people) the combat and the sheer amount of things that 
 can be done in this game is great. 
  
  Combat is way better then most other RPG's to date (Oblivion, Gothic, etc..) . It's not just click 
 block - it requires a lot of skill to become good at: correct timing, correct weapon choices and 
 more. The introduction of horses is great - 50 heavy knights is a site to be seen, and if they 
 are on your side, there's not much that can stop you. Being able to put together large war band 
 with ~120-130 (depending on your skill) and being able to direct them on and off the battlefield 
 and upgrade them is great. 
  
  The lack of storyline, while a bit disappointing, means that you have the complete freedom to do 
 whatever you want: join a faction, participate in a war, start a civil war, siege and capture castles, 
 towns and whole regions and have the control of which of your lords get to keep them (or you might 
 just want to keep it all for yourself) is great.
  
  Graphics are a bit outdated, but most people love this game for how it plays, not how it looks 
 like.
  
  In conclusion - if graphics and storyline aren't the most important features, that you are looking 
 in a game for and you enjoy realistic, tough medieval combat, then this game is for you, and for 
 $30USD its worth trying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 555SSOO
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 26, 2009 6:05 am PT
Review:  This game almost isn't worth writing about, but I will do it because I want to warn you :do not 
 bay this game.
  It was not made so long ago but when I saw it it looked like something from the year of 2000. You 
 choose your own story and go with it. Some say that it's top moment is in the combat, but that sucks 
 too, you have a bow and a sword as primary weapons (best weapons) when someone attacks you, you can 
 either try to kill him while you are still on your horse witch will almost certainly end up with 
 your horse being killed. When you dismount you fight them, but then you see a clear pattern of fighting. Block, click 
 (attack) , block, click... to infinity and beyond! The story is stupid and as you wish.
  Earlier I said that it looked like something from 2000 and that is because of the graphics witch 
 is almost in squares.
  That's Mount&Blade for you and I will say this once more: do not bay this game!
  One more thing, M&B 
 was created by a vary small developer so you get the idea. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carlstar
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 24, 2009 9:11 pm PT
Review:  _______ ______________ _________ ____________ ______
  This game is great. Sure the graphics look old and dated but i am sick of games that concentrate 
 on looking pretty with all the flashy new rendering techniques and the whole "oh doesnt the water 
 look so real in this game. it is all about the water and the reflections it gives you, therefore 
 it must be a good game". Also having to play the game just as the developers want you too because 
 they spent too much time on their pretty water effects and forgot about making the game good. So 
 for me it is good to see a game released where you get to ride a horse and fight on that horse 
 with bows, lances, swords etc and the fact that it gives you in game effects to things like damage 
 and accuracy means the designers have really thought about what they wanted to make.
  
  The fact that you are in a kingdom doing whatever you want is good too. Finding favour with lords 
 or just doing whatever you want is what games should let you do. You could pick a fight with everyone 
 right away if you really want and you can then see how you would go with lords and armies hunting 
 you down all the time.
  
  It feels like you are just controling another person in the world as they AI is going to keep doing 
 what it does with or without you. Kingdoms will go to war and if you want to get involved you can, 
 if not then dont.
  
  You arnt guided to being a hero or villian and you arnt expected to be either also. You just go 
 and do what you want. Joy
  ________ ____________ ____________ _____________ _ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 8ourne
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 24, 2009 6:37 pm PT
Review:  Mount & Blade has possibly the best medieval weapons combat system I have ever seen. Both on foot 
 and on horseback, the combat is excellent. However, not far into the game, your character grows 
 powerful enough to kill simple enemies with one strike, and it can become monotonous to wade through 
 50 enemies, especially since you can only strike one at a time. However, that is the only complaint 
 I can make about combat.
  The role-playing aspect is also well done. Character customization is excellent. You can choose 
 between several factions to join, or you can join a rebel faction, recruit lords, and lead your 
 armies to victory. Unfortunately, the staggering openness of the game can be its downfall. There 
 is no objective in the game, and it's easy to run out of things to do once the combat gets old. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: downloadthefile
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 22, 2009 12:12 pm PT
Review:  The game is Mount and Blade, and it is an excellent mix of a strategy game with RPG elements. You 
 play as an adventurer, or a prince, or a vassal to a kingdom, or a bandit, or pretty much anyone, 
 depending on your mods (Will explain later) . The game is so open-ended that the player can do whatever 
 they want. This may overwhelm certain players but it actually works out. This is not like Morrowind 
 in that the main quest doesn't start ever because there is no main quest. You are just a guy looking 
 out for your best interests.
  
  The game takes place in the fictional world of Calradia, although it can also take place in Britain 
 and France, or in the world of the Lord of the Rings. The reason the game can do this is because 
 this game has an excellent modding community that mods practically every aspect of it as they see 
 fit. There are hundreds of mods, leading to hundreds of possibilities for gameplay. This leads 
 to a game where you can feel like playing it one way and next time you play, play it in a completely 
 different world.
  
  The reason it gets an 8.5 is because I would be lying if I said that the game couldn't improve. 
 Firstly, the game's complete open mentality is extremely intimidating in the beginning, and it 
 would be nice if more quests that were structured were added. Second, the graphics are not exactly, 
 good. They are very bad, but they are clear. While a person might not look good, you can tell for 
 a fact that it is a person. The graphics are clear enough that you won't have a problem with looking 
 at the game, it just makes you wonder how much more could have been done with this style of game.
 
  
  The only reason Mount and Blade is slightly unfinished in the ways I said are that the game wasn't 
 made by a big company. It was made by a couple and produced by a small company that couldn't supply 
 them with sufficient funds to make a really amazing game, which is so unfortunate. Buy a copy and 
 just support these people, as well as that the game is really, really fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThaMuncherPt
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 21, 2009 6:45 am PT
Review:  This is one of these games that you see on the discount shelf on a game store. Whene i first saw 
 it , I just read the name , and , when i got home i went to youtube to watch some gameplay and 
 see if it was good. it didnt seemed to be that much of a deal , but , at the price the game was 
 , i wouldnt loose too much money. I bought the game some time later and started plaing it . The 
 graphics arent good , but it has one of the best gameplays i have ever seen. The weapons were cool 
 , and it had enought kinds of them to make the game and its experience diferent everytime you change 
 your weapon. I really enjoyed the combats , expeccialy the sieges , with large number of man tring 
 to climb up a straight ladder , while they were being shot from everywhere. The sandbox style of 
 the game was one of the best i had ever played. The game is excellent and worth your time and your 
 money... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Canek
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 20, 2009 10:59 am PT
Review:  Even if it falls under RPG cathegory, Mount & Blade it's a true original jewel. I have been playing 
 it since early beta versions and It has kept me hooked to it for at least 4 years now.
  
  The first thing to be noted is that this is one of those true open-ended games. The only goals 
 are those you set up yourself, and they can be quite tricky to obtain.
  
  Being it open-ended, it also means that the possible choices which directly affect gameplay are 
 literally thousands. It would never get repetitive because there is simply no chance of any game 
 becoming the same again. If you also add the excelent and wide choices of mods, you have an intensive 
 value on investment/gameplay hours with Mount & Blade.
  
  But other than the nature of the game, it's true heart is the combat engine. It's simply beautiful. 
 (And that's why I said this game could be remembered as the start of its own genre) . Polished, 
 elegant, functional, diverse, highy addictive, the combat engine will make you want more and more, 
 and even after beaten most of the lords or having an apparently unstoppable army, you can always 
 come to a situation where you can still be defeated.
  
  Did I mention this game is completely system-friendly? Even after playing it for so long and across 
 three different computers, I can barely remember a bug or an inconsistency.
  
  To make it short: Be part of gaming story. If you ever wanted to be there when X-Com, the first 
 Final Fantasy, Doom or even Mario Bros were released, this is your chance: go buy Mount & Blade 
 ASAP. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BillAlwell
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 20, 2009 6:50 am PT
Review:  I have always enjoyed games about the medieval time period, with knights fighting on foot or horseback. 
 This game has the best swordfights, tournaments, and castle battles by far of any game that I have 
 played. There is some difficulty in getting your character started, but the individual and group 
 fights are great fun and make the game worthwhile. Even downing an enemy with an arrow that hits 
 his horse instead of him is fun to do and watch the results. I wish they kept statistics for kills, 
 etc. However, you can go to any place on the map and help any of the five kingdoms win a war, as 
 well as do other quests. The graphics are not up to date, especially on the map, but the way you 
 can attack the enemy on foot or horseback is very well done. Battles in the field or attacking 
 and defending castles are presented extremely well. The critic scores may be low, but the reader 
 scores are high for this game, because it is just plain fun. Start out by going to the training 
 fields to learn how to fight. If the game is too frustrating at first, you can use the cheat codes 
 to help you learn the controls and get a feel for the game. The second game you play, you will 
 want to play on a more difficult level. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: specolar
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 18, 2009 12:27 pm PT
Review:  This game is the best answer to the question "Know any good RPG games." There is just no way someone 
 who tries this won't like it. The best feature is that it is open-ended you can do what ever you 
 want. The attack system is very good relying on what weapons and armor you bought not just on skills 
 that become more powerful until the game feels to easy because you can kill anything in one hit. 
 The battles are also unique as in the fact that the terrain changes every battle and so does the 
 circumstances regarding new enemies and reinforcements.
  
  The multiplayer is non-existent but i believe this game would be fun if you could fight your friends 
 over a battle. net like system so you can prove who is better, and a LAN option where you can team 
 up with your friends and play the whole game while having diverse people in you armies 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrHeint
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 16, 2009 8:32 am PT
Review:  First off GS should change their review. This is a good game made by good people. Taleworlds set 
 out an ambitious goal and ultimately succeeded. Some updated honest reviews and free publicity 
 could help these guys out. Good developers with little money that come up with something completely 
 different, that works almost perfectly, should be admired, not shot down with a BS review buy some 
 idiot.
  
  NOTE: It is very important to check out the many available mods for this game. The community is 
 great and they would not be here if not for this awesome game. With the BattleSizer mod you can 
 extend battle sizes up to a 1000 - which will probably crash even the best computer out there - 
 but still offers the option to make overall battle population meet your own PC horsepower. 
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  Wide open world to do as you choose. You can trade between villages and castles 
 while building up skills and army. Fights and battles are a blast. Larger battles can offer up 
 tons of XP and loot. It's fun upgrading, and leveling, your character and any accompanying heroes. 
 There is a ton of stuff to buy and sell, endless strategies to use, and virtually any moral path 
 to follow. Be noble if you want, be and evil pillagin warlord... Options are up to you. It's great 
 fun taking down enemies... And battles can be numerous and huge. Kind of like the Total War series 
 in scope, buy you are down on the battlefield leading your army and bloodying your sword. It can 
 be tricky learning how to control formations and units of the battlefield, but the controls are 
 all spelled out in the menu - options interface.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  You spend time moving around the large gameworld on an undesirable map. The graphics when zoomed 
 into towns, or into battle, are not bad at all. Best thing is the game runs very smooth for most 
 PC's. Graphics are not the strongest part of this game, but the sure don't drag the fun down at 
 all. There are mods that change the appearance.
  
  SOUND: 
  Not very bad... I play my own music while playing most PC games, but the sound in Mount & Blade 
 is normal I guess. You will hear normal battle sound, clashing of steel, that sort of thing.
  
  REPLAY VALUE:
  With the huge mod community and the overall enjoyment of playing this title, 
 it's easy to say that this game will keep you coming back for more. Plus you can try it out for 
 free, the entire game, and level up to 7 before making up your mind to purchase. A license right 
 now is 30us. Head over to http://www. taleworlds. com/ and check it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: m007368
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 16, 2009 6:10 am PT
Review:  I love the game concept but it needs mods to address a couple areas:
  
  * Coherent Strategic level warfare between the factions, ie improved vassal system, troop levying, 
 town building, castle ownership
  
  *Mounted archers - being resolved
  
  *More ingame quests and a variety of repeatable quests with enough fill in the blank portions they 
 are neither ridiculous or repetative
  
  *Some more variety of troops to allow things like dogs and the such, or for some of the more fantasy 
 based mods like "The Last Days" (Lord of the Rings)
  
  Bottom line: The base game is good, but it gets boring unless you pick a well developed Overhaul 
 mod to augment the gameplay.
  
  NEED MORE 
  NEED 
 MORE 
  NEED MORE 
  NEED 
 MORE 
  NEED MORE 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Boer28
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 15, 2009 2:08 am PT
Review:  Ever played one of the Total War games, feeling you want actually fight? Or played TES: Oblivion 
 feeling you are alone against the whole world? Then get this get this game, if not still get this 
 game.
  
  Mount&Blade is something for everyone, the learning curve may be a bit harsh, but once in, it's 
 difficult to exit. This is a true RPG, you decide what will happen, not a prescribed story. Be 
 a peaceful merchant, a evil bandit, or a lord for a faction. The type of character is up to you, 
 decide your skills, create a face, and choose your armour, weapons, horse, companions and soldiers. 
 Wheter you want to be a sneaky bandit assassin, get some Forest Bandits, get a black hood, a short 
 sword and warbow. Or be the good knight, and get a warhorse, plate armour, lance and a shield carrying 
 your banner. Be anything! You can siege castles, attack villages, take towns, betray a king, start 
 a rebellion, help some poor fellows...
  
  The options are endless, try the demo, and you'll be inlove. Join the Mount&Blade revolution! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Daword
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 10, 2009 2:32 pm PT
Review:  im played more than 200pc games. so i know what games are good and what games are boring or just 
 realy bad.. but off course other like cars and other like girls so... do u like this its upto u 
 =)
  
  --   Sory my enghlis its not my main language so i try to write only short Reviews
  
  
 
  
  Graphic 7/10
  there is graphic mod out there so its look brety good.
  
  Sounds 7/10
  nothing new or special but its do the job
  
  Gameplay 9/10
  Awesome gameplay.. 
 great Controls
  
  Time Spent Playing +10hours
  many mods makes this game longlife
  
  Difficulty easy-medium
  u can chose it is easy or hard.. good options to chose ur settings
 
  
  Worth to buy?
  Hel* Yeah!!
  
  Gamevalue 9/10
  its great game.. i played it.. and quit it.. and start to play again whit another mod.. worth every 
 $ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _diggah_
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 4, 2009 5:02 pm PT
Review:  I discovered this game about 18 months ago. Back then it was still in Beta (v0.808 if I remember 
 right) . I played the demo and quickly fell in love with the horseback combat it offered. I forked 
 out for a licence there and then (which at about 12 UK pounds wasn't too bad) .
  
  Fast forward to this week, where I downloaded the "retail" version from their website. Happily 
 my licence is still valid and Im able to play the full version of this game.
  
  First off I can see the improvements they've made since I last played : the textures are better, 
 the landscape has more to it (villages and castles) , there are people wandering round the towns 
 and villages (before it was a very static affair) , the quest system has been implemented and many 
 other minor tweaks. It still has the great horseback combat I liked before and its still fun to 
 play.
  
  The problem? Im not sure it was actually ready for retail release yet. Sure there have been significant 
 improvements, but I can understand some new players feeling very purplexed as the the purpose or 
 goal for the game as its a little too open ended where it needs to have a little focus. 
  
  Now don't get me wrong. I think Indepentant development is exceptionally imporant and I think the 
 guys have done an amazing job. My problem comes with charging full price (25 uk pounds) for a game 
 that, compaired to other full price games, feels very unpolished. Not to say that polish is important 
 (as the Games Industry very well knows, you can always polish a turd) but it feels a little too 
 raw to be able to compete. 
  
  Having said all that I understand that a Multiplayer expansion is in development and the mod scene 
 for this game is very much alive (as it was during Beta) so its still a worthwhile game. I would 
 just love to see much more focus to it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_Lykouleon
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 28, 2009 7:39 am PT
Review:  I've been meaning to review M&B for days now, but the problem is, that halfway through typing, 
 I'll decide to load it up to play for a bit, and end up losing several hours of my life.
  
  M&B in an atypical Action RPG, with a real time combat system that, although wonky, can be very 
 rewarding. There are few things more fun than nailing a nice long distance shot with a bow, only 
 to see the soldier slump over, fall off his horse, and get trampled underfoot. Likewise with knocking 
 a horse down to purposely dismount some smug noblemen. 
  
  The game is not without flaws. The first is that it is SO open ended that you have to set personal 
 goals. The second is that after a certain level, it becomes nigh impossible to level up, and so 
 progression is difficult. 
  
  Graphically the game is below par. Also, battles can end up becoming a bit monotonous. 
  
  
 
  But for $7 on Steam, you will be hard pressed to find a better deal.
  
  Download it, try through level 7, decide if its for you.
  
  M&B won't disappoint. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aldouz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 22, 2009 7:19 pm PT
Review:  I buy this game then I put in my DVD ROM, but wait... I check the properties and I'm very dissapointed, 
 why... because it only occupy 864mb from a DVD max 4,700mb this something I'm not expected from 
 a DVD game, why they don't sell it in 2 CD?
  But I installed it anyway... after 10minutes play this amazing game I realize this game has very 
 rich features, the best part of this amazing game is the BATTLE... I'm feel like a real General 
 in a battle, I can order my troops infantry, archer, cavalry to charge, hold line, etc... WOW!!!
 
  I feel like a real General in a battle, this is the best part from this game... another thing 
 I love from this game is... No damn Magic, I hate magic in a battle game...
  The other best part from this game is the minimum requirement, it so damn low, you don't need a 
 hundred dollars video card to play it, this is great...
  I can't say anything else, this should be the best game release in 2008... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: a5tro
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 18, 2009 8:46 am PT
Review:  I was bored so I got the demo thinking this would be average but worth seeing what all the great 
 reviews by people are about, I was not disappointed, this game has awesome combat and though the 
 graphics are not great compared to some other major new releases it is easy to get past, especially 
 if you max the graphics out. Nothing feels better than charging into a horde of infantry with your 
 lance and about 20 cavalry behind you. Also really cool RPG elements in the game as well, did not 
 leave my chair all weekend becasue of it.
  
  You can play as a bandit or join a kingdom as a vassal. You can own villages, castles, towns. Be 
 a trader, be a mercenary, basically it is very open ended. I recommend anyone to at lease get the 
 demo and try it out if your not hooked on any other game at the moment.
  
  There are also a heap of mods for Mount and Blade too making the re-playability huge. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skorne_Tetzu
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 16, 2009 3:41 pm PT
Review:  Normally I do not write reviews; only one actually... Scrapeland (CRAPLand) a few years back. I 
 don't write reviews because everyone has their own opinions... and Mine is just one more. However, 
 for this game, I have to speak out; IT IS THE FIRST TRUE RPG EVER CREATED.
  
  Bold words, but what is an RPG... Not just a 'Role Playing Game'... but a Game in which YOU the 
 player writes a story. How many games out there have we played, and yet the Stories are all the 
 same. Not here... You can Truly become what you wish to become. A Servant of the King; and NOT 
 in that you obey his laws, but you carry out his Justice in his lands; as a Member of his Army, 
 as a Lord in his Court or as a Mercenary who switches sides at the drop of a few gold. Or mayhaps 
 you seek your glory as a Merchant. Most games, which allow you to be a merchant, provide the same 
 products in all towns; so the whole Supply in Demand thought is 'Just a Thought'. Here you can 
 purchase a variety of items from a vast kingdom... and then find the best buyer based on a geniune 
 need of the area... hopefully before some Brigand finds You. Though for the 'Well to Do' Merchant, 
 you can hire a few swords to protect your valuable; and actually give them the order to attack 
 your attackers, while you Post a Strategic Retreat.
  
  Or maybe you're more the Champion Sort. Find a Lady in Waiting, and Champion her Cause... Or a 
 'Gentleman in Waiting... for the Lady of Fortune. Then again... maybe you don't really care to 
 Serve any good cause; but instead; You serve your own cause. Then that lone caravan is your first 
 target. Band together with Birds of a Feather, and no Caravan is too great... Nor the Manhunters 
 who have been given your name and description; and YES... they are coming after you.
  
  What else makes this game AWESOME; The Skill Sets. Innovative is the first word that comes to mind. 
 Again, referencing games of past: You choose to be a Ranger... their abilities in the wild are 
 unmatched... so drop a few points in Agility, and couple in Intelligence... and ShaZamm.... You're 
 a Ranger. But in Mount & Blade... What kind of a Ranger do you seek: Great with a Bow... that will 
 cost You; Great at Tracking... that will cost you as well... What about Spotting the Enemy or finding 
 a Good Trail; all will cost you. though you can always place points in all... but then you are 
 just "an Average Ranger". Okay, that was the long way of pointing out, that No one man (or woman) 
 can be a master in ALL Traits in a short time; 5 points to Agility, and you are the best Tracker, 
 Scout, Forager, etc. there is. But in Mount and Blade, you must choose wisely, as each of these 
 skills is its own Training Ground. So once more; instead of 5 Rangers writing the same story... 
 you get Five Tales of 5 GREAT Adventurers.
  
  And what of Good and Evil. I've always believed there is really no such thing as Good and Evil... simply 
 the choices of Men. One King attacks another and he is Called Evil; but yet... now that he is able 
 to give his people greater prosperity due to the expansion of his Kingdom... They know him as 'The 
 Good King'. In Games of Past... an Evil Act upon one, shall set all those within the Game World 
 as an Enemy; But how REAL is that??? Remember; RolePlay is Suppose to be: Reality with a SAVE/RESTORE 
 Feature (smile) . And so it is in Mount & Blade. Loot and Pillage a Town... Attack a Castle without 
 provocation... Kill a Lord or Duke or Two. Well, there are some who shall call you EVIL; but across 
 the River; Thou art Hailed a Hero!!! With 4 kingdoms in constant turmoil; the rule is simple: The 
 Enemy of My Enemy is My Ally!!! 
  
  One reviewer noted that Mount & Blade had a lot of Dead-Ends... while I respect his views; I must 
 also Respectfully Disagree. There are no Dead-Ends... just the realities of Day to Day Life. Not 
 every day is filled with Epic Events; some days, you sit in a Tavern, and not so much as a Spilt 
 Bit of Ale; other days... you can't reach the local Inn without ducking and dodging arrows. Imagine... 
 being in a Town, and just dealing with the locals, and all of sudden you get a message: Raiders 
 are attacking the town... What do you do? And you are then given several options; Play the Hero, 
 Duck and Cover, Get the Heck Outta Dodge!!! NOW THAT'S REALITY!!!
  
  Some parts of this game can be a bit frustrating; but even in that frustration; YOU GOTTA LOVE 
 IT. I ran into a lord who was heading to attack some kingdom; we spoke for a moment, and he asked 
 if I could hunt down and terminate a man that killed one of his men. I accepted the quest. After 
 completing the quest, I then spent the next several days (an hour or so Real Time) trying to find 
 the Son-of-a-Gun to collect my reward. Games of Past: A Quest Given at Point A, can be completed 
 at Point A. Mount & Blade... a Living Breathing Life Force; where people do not sit upon the Arse 
 for Days on end... waiting for would be Adventurers to finish their quest. I hunted him down, and 
 received my reward; but I could have just 'Hoped' to run into him again... or even gone and waited 
 at his keep till he returned; hmmm.... Don't know about you; but if that's not reality (Hunting 
 down someone who owes you Gold) then I'm not sure what is!!!!
  
  And what about the epic battles. There is NOTHING like charging into a Battle on your Mount Firing 
 Arrows into the on-coming unslaught; and then Drawing your Sword and taking down the first couple 
 of attackers in one pass. Wait... there is something greater. Being in a battle against footed 
 soldiers, and taking them down one by one; and suddenly with 3 attackers left, your horse dies 
 under you. Your advantage gone; your men dead or unconscientious... and you know that at any point 
 you shall be someone's unwilling prisoner. You jump to your feet, pull your shield close, and wait 
 as the attackers begin their charge. As they reach you, you hear their weapons crashing down on 
 your shield; your mind reels with the thought, that eventually the shield will give out... 1 blow, 
 2 then 3 and 5 and you begin to lose count; you have to time this perfectly; another blow and another; 
 and you make your move, you swing wide and wildly, you see blood fly, you pray its not yours, one 
 of the attackers is off balance, you take advantage of the moment and lunge quickly; He falls silently 
 (one down, you think) , but you've left yourself open... you can almost feel the blade cutting through 
 your Think Hide Armour; You pull your shield back up, but only to have the War Axe rip it out of 
 your hands. Now... its just You, Your Sword and two attackers. You think back to your training... 
 Timing... its all about timing; you watch your attackers closely... one swings, you block, the 
 other swings you block again. This continues for what seems like a life time; but with each swing 
 and block, you begin to see your opening; it comes and you send your sword Slicing down for a Death 
 Blow on one of the attackers. (One Left; you almost Sing inside your mind) . You know that one good 
 hit will take you down for the count... this has to be perfect; you begin to back up, forcing your 
 opponent to move forward towards you; as he does he swings, but his attack is short; Yours is Not... 
 as he falls to ground. VICTORY IS YOURS!!!
  
  What makes this Game Epic?: its not a Click and Slash and Luck of the Dice Combat. You gain experience 
 and skills as you use weapons, but if you do not use the weapons correctly, a level 1 opponent 
 will best you no matter how high you are. But, Just like in Real Life, the more you practice, the 
 better you get. I recall when I first started using my bow on Horseback... it was Irritating; I 
 couldn't hit the Broad side of a Mountain. But you should see me now. My SKILL has gotten better, 
 allowing me to do more damage; but its My personal ability with bow (Mouse) that has left many 
 an enemy dead, before they even reached the Battle Field. Mount & Blade allows a player to grow 
 within the game as well as outside the game. In short... as you're player gains levels, he/she 
 gets better at whatever it is they do; but at the same time as YOU get better in controlling your 
 Player - You get a More Personal Feel of Accomplishment.
  
  All in all... this writer feels that Mount & Blade will hopefully lead the Charge in future games 
 allowing players to TRULY Design their characters as they see fit. Developed Skill Sets; Alignments 
 which actually work; Open-Ended; allowing a Player to Actually Choose his/her own path, and not 
 be give the option of taking one of two roads which lead to the same Place. 
  
  Well, I'm sure I could continue ranting and raving about the game for some time; but instead... 
 I say: Play the Game; You'll Love it... from Beginning to No-Ending!! To the Developers: BRAVO 
 - VERY WELL DONE!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bri2221
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 17, 2009 3:29 pm PT
Review:  100 words; AMAZING, COOL, AWESOME, GREAT, HELL YEAH, SWEET, OH MY GOD THIS IS 100% MY FAVORITE 
 GAME, I LIKE TO PLAY IT ALOT OF TIMES, AM I STILL TYPING... WELL, AM I!?! LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL SWEET!!! 
 I AM STILL TYPING, WELL, SAY SOMETHING, PLEASE!!! L O L L O L L O L L O L PLAY THIS GAME PLEASE!!! 
 ARE YOU PLAYING, WELL, ARE YOU!?! was that 100 words? wait it isn't, OH MY GOD!!! WHY 100 WORDS!?! 
 WHY!?! im board... i might play now. but i wont until i am done writing this stupid review. i am 
 not counting those words i typed too long, i'll just keep typing again, and again until i wrote 
 100 words. OH MY GOD!!! i am still board. stupid review is wasting my not needed time... that came 
 out wrong. hoppfully i wrote 100 words by now. let me check... almost i'll just say i wrote 100 
 words. blah, blah, blah, done. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: camar001
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 8, 2009 10:20 pm PT
Review:  Well, this is review number four for me here at Gamespot. My first was Quake Wars, second was Hellgate 
 and my third was Mass Effect. Well, this game is far removed from those in that, this wasnt produced, 
 developed or published by ANY big name... and its so much better off for it. My reviews, I like 
 to think, have been informative and well regarded by the people that have read them, so I hope 
 that those of you who know of me will let me know with a big thumbs up.
  
  Mount and Blade is an RPG... empire management... battle simulator... life simulator... all of these 
 things infact all rolled into one... but, only if you get the right mods. Let me explain.
  
  On its own, Mount and Blade has alot of stuff missing. Key gameplay elements that you expect it 
 to have, just arent there. However, that is where the developers have been clever. Its like that 
 for a reason. M&B has one of the most active, lively and skilled Mod Communities in existence. 
 And we arent talking small tweaks to gameplay here. Some of the Mods that are out there are MASSIVE!! 
 They completely change the game from the World Map, to how you get XP. The possibilities for Modding 
 are simply endless with this game and they keep rolling the Mods out on an almost daily basis. 
 VERY clever of the developers to do this as its created a highly dedicated player and fan base 
 already so shortly after release.
  
  But Wait!! There is more than just that. This is the ONLY game I know that does really, REALLY 
 awesome horse mounted combat. And I mean AWESOME!! Ive never had so much fun running through masses 
 of enemy soldiers, swinging my sword, hacking down my enemies. Oh the joys of running across an 
 open plane with 150 other knights with you, only to plough into a wall of infantry at the other 
 end and massacre them all.
  
  And that brings me to the large scale battes. Oh my f***ing god!! No game does them like this. 
 Its incredible. There is even a mod that allows you to increase the amount of people in a single 
 battle to up to 1000men. But... you do that you gonna need a beast of a macine... seriously. Top 
 end required for that or you will crash.
  
  Graphics are basic, functional with ragdoll effects on dead people. Sounds are okay. But, everything 
 is modable, so there are already huge graphic and sound overhaul mods available.
  
  In short, its an empty game, but its meant to be so that the modding community can flurish... and 
 flurish it is. I cannot recommend this game enough!! Why are you still here? You could be fighting 
 epic battles already!! GET IT!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jokerblk
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 8, 2009 3:54 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: Good, very catchy. Keeps you for hours in front of the computer.
  Feeling: Deja-Vu is installed after 20-30 hours of gameplay.
  Sounds: Realistic, very good.
 
  Graphics: A little poor, but compensated by the good engine used.
  Overall Feeling: Good, but needs polishing.
  
  Overall, a game which is worth playing. The 
 lack of multiplayer sucks though, as it could have been a very interesting game in multi. Imagine 
 yourself controlling a whole Khanate along with a friend of yours in a lan game... it would have 
 been absolutely marvelous. But, it seems the producers didn't think this way :)
  The quests could have been more various, and the storyline more... present :) ) The characters could 
 have been more various, and they could be involved in a much more tense story, but let's say it 
 is allright...
  
  
  But, overall, a very good game, that is worth playing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ronnet
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 7, 2009 12:48 pm PT
Review:  I first heared about Mount & Blade after I got my new laptop and was asking around gamespot for 
 a good PC WRPG. I wanted something that I couldn't play on my old PC. Instead I was adviced to 
 check out Mount & Blade which I could have played on my old PC.
  
  After downloading the time limited demo I wasn't really blown away at first. You start out on a 
 ugly world map controlling an horseman that didn't even look like my own character. But as soon 
 as the fight simulation starts the game gets highly addictive. Combat is just amazing, the animations 
 might not be that great but fighting is very satisfying. As you play the game you'll find that 
 there is so much to do. Trade, recruit, train, questing, join a kingdom, become a lord, replace 
 a king, conquer villages, castles, cities and much more. The game doesn't have a story and eventually 
 there won't be anything new to find but the gameplay remains addictive until you've completed the 
 goal you've set for yourself.
  
  The game has such an epic scale and as a RPG is right up there with Morrowind and my other favorite 
 RPG. Then there are the mods which bring it so a whole new level. Now that the game has reached 
 V1.+ there basicly is a mod for everything. If I could include mods in the score then it definatly 
 would be a 10/10 game.
  
  This game puts 90% of the big titles to shame and makes you think why games with big budgets can't 
 get creative talent. Even if your not planning on getting it for whatever reason the level limited 
 demo is worth checking out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tonyukuk
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 7, 2009 4:43 am PT
Review:  Game itself is not a "EA" like game; such 1 hour videos, hot babies and and inattentive gameplay. 
 So if you want such game keep lookin'. And dont have Big Budget so it is not a suprise that gamespot 
 did not even play nor review it properly. ;)
  
  It has a RPG concept that I personally love. "BE GUY WHO EVER AND HOW EVER YOU LIKE" such as Fallout 
 1-2. You can be a lonely knight and his few companions or villain with band of rouges or a King 
 with lords and armies at his call. It is all about what you want at that time. 
  So when a concept is huge as this game. it is hard to get it and easy to give 6.0 . 
  There are 
 lots of mods to change game entire different game. Here are few... 
  
  Well I suggest give shot for demo. You can Play the game for sometime and try few cool mods. See 
 for your self
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: paladinjedi
Rating: 4
Date: Jan 6, 2009 10:49 am PT
Review:  A sad tale from... Taleworlds... An unfinished project whose story remains at best the aleatory 
 self-invented fantasy of the player (hack-n slash teritory...) , whose graphics bring back long 
 memories from before 2003, whose unmounted combat system, although tactical, feels more like slow 
 motion tossing, whose NPC-s act like rigid cadavers (no blinks, no moving lips, no everyday life 
 activities beyond controlled patrolling from and towards nowhere, no mimics, no voices...) ; a game 
 whose only true purpose is to make the player 3D simulate a medieval mounted combat experience. 
 Nothing more, nothing less.
  
  The objection would be that this was a small team project. Well, the project started in 2005... 
 They did sell copies of the game meanwhile but after 3 years they could not come with a real betterment 
 of the game, beyond a mounted combat sim?!? No excuse here. 
  
  Ah, but about changes... maybe as a former modder of this game I should mention some ideas that 
 until I've brought in discussion and modding on their forums in the spring of 2008 were very hardly 
 to be found somewhere: -- being able to declare yourself as an independent lord, advancing as a 
 king and later emperor, improving the overall written dialogue lines, naming your own forged kingdom 
 as "rebels"... After I've made my mod, named "Rebels", those ideas appeared in the main "Native" 
 concept of quite subsequent versions, but of course -- passing as their own ideas! Pure coincidence? 
 Doubtful. And I bet I'm not the only case. In fact it's the merit of some modders that this game 
 has not gone to the dogs completely...
  
  Nevermind that. Errare humanum est. Forgivness is always a better solution than continuous struggling. 
 Let's hope they raised their funds enough to come with something much better in the future, something 
 deserving to be called a role playing experience. They've shown they're capable of it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: idyllwildca
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 4, 2009 3:10 pm PT
Review:  After seeing this got such a low score I almost didn't try it out. I must say this is one of the 
 better games that I have played in a long time and at only $15.00 from Direct2drive. com its a steal. 
 The core game may get a little bit boring at first but you have the option of installing many mods 
 that are out there that add in a bunch of new content to the game. The only problem with this is 
 most of them do not let you import your saved games. So you might want to start by picking a Mod 
 and trying it out first. At first I thought the fighting system was slow and unresponsive however 
 after figuring it out I find it to be very fun.
  
  I would say try out the Demo and see how you like it. Your not going to be upset about spending 
 $15.00 for this game. It will give you many hours of fun.
  
  Give it a shot! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dweber31
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 2, 2009 7:37 pm PT
Review:  GS obviously didn't play this game enough or all their complaints would have been answered. This 
 game is very open-ended but it does have a story-line quest (or two or three) if you look for them. 
 You don't have to follow it or even get involved but there is a story-line quest about a stolen 
 throne and you can choose which side to support. Or if you'd rather just be general there are 5 
 factions to side with. Champion of the tournaments, marauder baron or defender of the crown. All 
 of these are easy paths to follow and oh so much fun. Archer, knight or foot soldier, however you 
 decide to fight, fighting is what this game is about. IMO its more of an FPS than an RPG. Whatever 
 it is it, it made my weekend end way too quick. But don't take my word for it, try out the free 
 demo. Then come back and tell GS how they got it wrong, again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PiperGK9999
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 25, 2008 8:10 am PT
Review:  This game doesn't tell you exactly what to do, when to do it, or why you are who, what and where 
 you are. Within the parameters of the game, you're pretty much on your own to define all of that. 
 What more could you want in an RPG than that?
  
  The hardest thing about this game is getting used to fighting on horseback. It's worth the time 
 spent practicing though! The physics feel very realistic, and it's very satisfying to look behind 
 you and watch the bad guy slump over after you've slit his throat at 40 mph on horseback.
  
  You really get a chance to create a "party" of adventurers, MUCH larger than any other game 
 I've ever played. At last count, I had about 15 major party members (I control their stats, equipment, 
 skills...) , and about another 55 or so hired warriors of all kinds.
  
  By the way, there's a pretty decent mod out there that does a good job of enhancing the game without 
 screwing anything up. I believe it's on Fileplanet. com and it's called Armed_Rebalance. rar. (for 
 Mount & Blade, of course) .
  
  Anyway, I won't discuss all the details but will simply say this game got a terrible review from 
 Gamespot. I might have agreed with them if I'd only played the game for an hour or so, because 
 it's one of those games you have to really get into to enjoy. This isn't some hack and slash, kill 
 everything that moves, instant gratification machine, so if you have Gamer's ADD you'll probably 
 not have the patience for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Heiziux
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 23, 2008 6:32 am PT
Review:  The game itself isn't flashy. The graphics are bad. Basically no story.
  
  But what makes this game good is that there is no other game that will let you have your own medieval 
 empire, castles, army and so on.
  
  You start out as a merc an work for one of the kingdoms. Once they accept you or you can choose 
 another path which is helping a heir but i wont go into that. Your start going into wars and taking 
 over castles. Soon you have few castles at your disposal, you can build improvements.
  
  Now at this point in the game you would need few mods from the community to allow you to create 
 your own empire because in the original version of the game that feature wasn't included.
  
  Your assemble massive armies, train soldiers, hire lords to fight for you, take over lands 
 and build improvements. This game is absolutely addictive tho it receives bad scores because of 
 low graphics, no story line and few other problems.
  
  I only gave this game 8 because of its very realistic medieval sim. Without that it only deserves 
 5-6 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Revixter
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 23, 2008 5:29 am PT
Review:  I saw the movie Braveheart for the first time when I was about 12. From that moment on I've craved 
 a game that could recreate the sheer carnage and scope of those epic battlefields. That wait is 
 over. Mount & Blade offers the excitement of charging into battle with your loyal army by your 
 side, clashing swords, lances, maces, spears, and anything else you can find. Enter combat from 
 foot or on horseback, command your army through easy one buttons commands. Line up your infantry 
 to take down incoming calvary, order your archers to reign death down from above, or run rampant 
 and take care of it all personally. The game renders easily 100+ units on screen at a time leading 
 to some of the most exciting fights you'll ever witness. Become a valiant knight, loot and burn 
 villages, recruit heroes and mercenaries, the choice is yours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jensoo
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 22, 2008 4:38 pm PT
Review:  Dont belive the "pro" rewies on this one. It is an addicting game, with unlimeted expansions. I 
 was very surprised to find that I suddenly loved this game.
  The combat system is simpel but i works really good, but works best wheen on horse. It gets messy 
 and at bit iritating when on foot. But it feels great to ride by your enemy, and hit him in the 
 head with a big axe. The difficulty in the combat system makes i very gratefying to win, and awful 
 to lose. The rgp part is very rough like the rest of the game, but still it fits the pourpos. 
 
  All in all a very rough stone, but still a great game. Mount and blade 2 is going to be one hell 
 of a game, and I can't wait to get my hands on it.
  The mod community is huge and hard working. There is many mods to try and most of them a very well 
 done. Dont miss out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brannons
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 16, 2008 10:23 pm PT
Review:  First off, I always check Gamespot review before buying a game. They usually do pretty good with 
 rating games. I feel that this game, however, was rated to low. I normally don't play games below 
 a 7, unless the users have great things to say about it. Just like this game, the user reviews 
 raved, so I got the game. Boy, were the users right. This game, out of the box, is fun, addictive, 
 and challenging. I'd describe it as a combat/strategy game with a twist of RPG. There isn't a story 
 line, so that leaves it open to create your own. You can be a rebel, you can be a trader, or you 
 can team up with one of the several existing Factions, and help them. Regardless of what you do, 
 as you move around and play, the game world is doing the same. Kingdoms are going to war, taking 
 over each other's towns, castles, and cities, trying to wipe each other out. Caravans bring goods 
 from town to town. And everyone that you talk to and do quest for has an impression of you that 
 reflect sub elements of the game. The game takes place in a 3rd person map in real time, and upon 
 approaching other factions, combat takes place in real time in 1st or 3rd person. There is a day/night 
 cycle, and the terrain can be used to your advantage during combat. Combat also involves castle 
 sieges, which are quite fun. 
  The game is mostly rewarding. You gain experience questing and doing combat, which in turn lets 
 you increase your skills and attributes, etc. Winning battles results in getting money, and lots 
 of items that you can sell to better outfit you and your heroes. You can capture other lords and 
 Kings, and various other prisoners, and sell them, ransom them, or hire them to be a part of your 
 army.
  
  I suppose the goal would be to take over the map, although I don't see that happening anytime soon. 
 The game progression is very slow, yet rewarding. It's a blast trampling the foe with your horse, 
 and slashing your opponent down as you gallop by. It's also fun joining up with ally troops to 
 take the enemy on.
  
  The graphics or ok, nothing new. But I find that ok, as I'm busy in combat. They do have graphic 
 and sound updates from 3rd parties that you can apply to the game to increase the visuals and graphics. 
 The armor and weapons look very good.
  
  The sound is good, no complaints. The music works well with combat, and ends right appropriately 
 depending on if the battle is lost or won. The screams of people when you slash them is appropriate 
 :)
  
  Apparently, this game has been around a while via beta, or older versions. Anyhow, there is a pretty 
 large Mod community that has done some neat things with the game, from adding a storyline, to expanding 
 the basic game, to changing the map, and adding units, etc. Not to mention graphic and sound mods.
 
  
  
  This game is a great game, but has so much that can be added in the future to make it better. The 
 base game itself though is done, and fun. Mods will make the game more what the users want, which 
 is cool. Running a mod is as easy as selecting it from a drop down menu when you start the game.
 
  
  
  I don't think I've ever reviewed a game before, but I was impressed with this game so much that 
 I had to share. It was developed by a guy and his wife in Turkey, and I hope and look forward to 
 what else they come up with.
  
  About me: 
  Looking really forward to the new Rome Total War. I love that series.
  37yrs old Network Engineer
 
  Heavy gamer since a kid
  Play pc games only, no console. I started with pong, and Atari though.
  Flight sim Enthusiast
 
  Married with 3 kids, my boys are gamers.
  
  My PC:
  Intel Core Duo 2.13ghz overclocked to 2.7Ghz
  2Gig Corsair 1000mhz ram
  Geforce 8800GTX 768mb
 
  32" widescreen LCD
  Windows XP
  Audigy
  Buttkicker for vibrating chair.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sochap
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 15, 2008 8:20 am PT
Review:  I am glad that actually checked out the demo of this game and I am thankful to the fans who actually 
 appreciated the merritts of this game.
  Do yourself a favour and download the free trial and then see if you like this game.
  I've played 
 many RPGs and strategy games and for the last few years I was hoping somebody would make a game 
 like this, where you play the RPG character but at the same time you can build an army around you 
 and go on a conquest.
  The graphics are decent, maybe not like Oblivion, but good enough. The gameplay is 100 times better 
 than the forementioned game (which I did enjoy, don't get me wrong) . After playing the demo to 
 the fullest I ran to the store to get my copy and I can't put this game down. 
  Anyways, I love this game, one of the best I've played in the last few years.
  The reviewer from 
 Gamespot must have had a bad day or something to rate it this low... There are a couple of areas 
 where the game can be polished up a bit, but that does not detract from the fun. The core of the 
 game is really solid and I can only imagine that upcoming mods and patches will only add to the 
 value of this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brunitho
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 13, 2008 3:42 pm PT
Review:  i really recomend this game... its the best game ever...
  
  
  a da sa da fa f ae wa fg a ff d fd f ds f s f s 
  ad ad a d f a f a s fqwe a f w f a f a d g 
 a s f a s f d s f d s f d s f d s f a s d a d s f s d
  a a f a f g w a g a f a f a f a s f q f f s f d s f s d d s f d f s f d f s d f s d f s a w d a 
 d a s d 
  d a a f a s gd f d f d f d f df d f s d f s f f s f s f s f sd f s d f d s f f d f s d f s f d 
 s d f s f s d 
  d a a s f a f a g a g a g a g a f a f a f tg k j , j i k k , i u u j n u n j h y b g v t f cr f 
 f s s f s f 
  d a f a f a a s g a f a f as x s x d d f s f d s f d s e fs fd sf s d f sd da s da s d a d s 
 
  a d f a a f f a f a s f a f f f d s d s f f d d f s f d s f s f s f s f sd fd s f d s f d s f 
 d s f d s f s d 
  a f a a f a sa f a s f a f c e x d x x x d s f s f s f s d f s f s d f s d f s f f d a s d as d 
 a s s 
  g a f a f a s f a s f s f s d f d s f d s f d s f d s f f f f d a s d a s d a s d a s d a s d a 
 d a d 
  
  
  
  (its for the text length xD) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tirtobening
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 8, 2008 3:18 am PT
Review:  Believe me! If you're an RPG lover, you have to try this game. the great battle system makes me 
 feel like a veteran champion. You'll feel like the Achilles with the javelin you throw to your 
 enemies, or William Wallace with your sword fighting skill.
  Ride your horse and kill those bandits!
  Lead your army and siege the enemy's castle!
  Throw 
 the javelin to the crowd!
  The variation of the arms and armor is great, you'll have many choices in fitting your favorite 
 stuffs. Huge world to explore and hundreds town to visit will make you sit in front of the PC all 
 day long.
  There are also many factions to choose, you'll have a king to serve. Or maybe someday you can become 
 the King...?
  The customization of the character is one of many good points, including the graphic and the sound.
 
  I think this is the best RPG in 2008.
  highly addictive...! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thrikreen80
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 7, 2008 10:02 am PT
Review:  Mount and Blade is just plain fun. You start the game out with nothing besides yourself, a horse, 
 and a little bit of money. The point of the game is make yourself. Either by becoming a knight 
 of a nation, or a merchant, or a vagabond the options are nearly limitless. It is the most open 
 ended game that a person can sit down to, with what seems like thousands of quests to be done. 
 
  
  Graphic wise the game is a little dated. But considering the whole game is one cd, that's right 
 cd one of them. The graphics are incredible. For the graphics in comparison to the amount of resources 
 this game takes up there is no doubt that this is one of the most graphically intensive games for 
 the requirements. It's really breathtaking to see combat wars during dusk or dawn, the scenery 
 is just really beautiful. 
  
  Sound is on par, it immerses you into a feeling that you are really in the medieval setting. A 
 lot of overtures play in the background while on the world map, and more intense battle music will 
 play in combat. 
  
  Game play is the reason to play this game. One of the most innovative combat systems to grace the 
 pc gaming marking marks Mount and Blades greatness. As an archer you have to calculated distance 
 of your opponents, placing enough arch on your shots to reach them. Shields react so realistic, 
 you can block volleys of arrows, and melee on the fly in real time. The one thing that requires 
 some getting used to is the melee system. The pc calculates where your closest enemy is to you, 
 and you will see an arrow direction according, you can choose to swing, which will swing on the 
 side of your enemy. It might sound dumb, but it really is amazing once you give it a little while. 
 Lastly, the horse combat. Did you ever wonder just how good a mounted knight could be in combat 
 against hundreds of foot soldiers? Mount and Blade really focuses on mounted combat, and makes 
 it very fun and realistic to play. You gain additional damage for how fast your horse is running 
 at time of impact. Additionally you can buy different horses that have charging stats. You can 
 literally charge and knock down enemies with your horse. 
  
  Recruitment is very important in mount in blade. For the most part you will recruit from villages 
 and get generic soldiers to fight by your side. These soldiers receive experience and level up 
 automatically so the need for micro management is not there. However, you can go to taverns and 
 recruit sub heroes if you will. These sub heroes react the exact way your main character does. 
 Speaking of which lets talk about xp and equipment. Xp is gained by killing enemies. You gain levels 
 and your main character and sub characters have 3 main level up meanings. First attributes, second 
 skills, and third proficiencies, that can all be affected by level up points. Equipment is either 
 bought or looted after battles. Equipment includes anything from armor to swords, shields, and 
 horses. By the way you can even give your sub heroes horses to fight a long side you. 
  
  Story line is a little lacking, but there is a reason to that. It is an open ended game, so the 
 developers want you to be able to do your own thing and now have to be stuck to the constrains 
 of a story. That is not to say that there is no story or content in the game, because there is 
 plenty. NPCs will give you duties, tell you lore, and stories about is going on. Each sub hero 
 you recruit will tell you a life story, which you can choose to follow in order to complete the 
 sub hero's dream, or revenge, or whatever it might be.
  
  Overall I give this game a 10. This is because I think is perfectly serves it's purpose. The game 
 was meant to be open ended, combat oriented, and nation conquering. It does all of this great. 
 The sound is great, the combat is great, the AI is pretty awesome for what it is, especially mounted 
 enemy AI. There is plenty of content, and the graphics again for the requirements of the game are 
 absolutely the best. So go pick up a copy of Mount and Blade if you are into these types of games, 
 and you will not be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nayoop
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 4, 2008 5:52 pm PT
Review:  Finally an RPG where grinding is different, innovative and just really fun. If you want an RPG 
 which sucks you in to the point that you are shocked it is 4AM, this is the one. This game may 
 not be for everyone but if you are a fan of this time period, and love RPGs, you owe it to yourself 
 to pick up this game, which packs in massive content for a reasonable price. Yes, it is ugly as 
 hell, but do not let that stop you from at least playing the demo, or you will miss out on one 
 of the best RPG's in quite some time. The only thing that really bothers me is that if theis game 
 had a bit more polish, it would have attracted a huge audience.
  
  Pros: Huge world, engaging combat, you can build small armies. Great stat building and nice variety 
 of weapons, and melee and mounted combat is really fun. Great music. Cons: PS1 graphics, the areas 
 could use a bit more detail. Ranged combat not as fun as melee. Did I mention the graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AkuraLyronat
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 3, 2008 9:16 am PT
Review:  I won't lie, when I first downloaded the trial for Mount&Blade I was feeling a bit of skepticism. 
 The graphics seem slightly outdated, the mechanics are a little confusing at first and the game 
 is certainly open ended to the point that you might not have any specific goals in mind for the 
 first couple hours of gameplay. But the fact is that the graphics are actually quite impressive 
 for coming from such a young developer, the combat mechanics feel more alive and engaging than 
 just about any I've ever played with and the open ended nature just means that you have the chance 
 to tailor your experience to be exactly what you want it to be. GameSpot criticizes the simplicity 
 of the quests early on in the game, but don't MOST games like this start off with at least a few 
 of those basic messenger boy quests? They certainly don't stay that way, eventually your tasks 
 become things like capturing enemy lords, fighting duels for honor and setting the spark for war 
 with a new nation. Furthermore, the fact that the game is open ended is one of the best parts! 
 Early on in the game you get to explore literally every location in the game, fight a few battles 
 to get your feet wet, and eventually you gather enough information do decide on which nation you 
 want to back. It's when you reach that point that the game really shines. That's when you start 
 commanding your own army, siegeing enemy castles and conquering other nations. Trust me, once your 
 army starts to make an impact on the game world map you won't want to quit playing. As for GameSpot's 
 comment on bugs and oddities, I swear I've found nothing more than the very occasional typo in 
 that area. Like seriously, I'm sitting here trying to come up with one glitch I've experienced 
 and I can't. And I'm running this on Vista.
  
  Seriously, at least download the free trial and give this one a shot. You may not love it, but 
 I can almost guarantee that everyone will feel this one deserves far better than just a 6 out of 
 10. By the way, if you like it buy the full game! It unlocks even more potential, and it helps 
 out a budding game developer that could really use the support!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ck753
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 30, 2008 12:16 am PT
Review:  Note to Gamespot reviewer: it's about the gameplay, stupid.
  
  Yes, ladies and gentlemen, it's official: Gamespot is out of it.
  
  I have amassed stacks and 
 stacks of "barely played" games. Plenty of these were, incidentally, given ridiculously high marks 
 by Gamespot. In fact, I grew so disgusted with the insipid barrage of all-bells-and-whistles unimaginative 
 ill-conceived crapola wasting my time -- and with only word-of-mouth to go on with regards to which 
 titles were actually worth playing -- that I found myself looking back on six months during which 
 I played no games whatsoever.
  
  Then along comes Mount and Blade, and I am reminded all over again of what it's like to be severely 
 addicted to a game. I will concede that Mount and Blade has many issues. But the fact is, I cannot 
 stop playing it -- in spite of its flaws.
  
  Gameplay is truly refreshing. Some things are done so well here, it's amazing. And what's REALLY 
 amazing, is that it took a small upstart developer to show the so-called "heavy hitters" of the 
 genre what a REAL "action RPG" SHOULD contain. This is how the combat is *supposed* to work. This 
 is how it's DONE, folks.
  
  I repeat: THIS IS HOW ACTION-RPG COMBAT IS SUPPOSED TO BE DONE.
  
  Didn't you "bigtime" developers 
 know???
  
  The deal with the large-scale battles is managed nicely, even allowing for multiple waves based 
 on your "battle size" preference which will be ruled by your computer's power. Even with an older 
 computer, the game performs well with dozens of enemies clashing at once. Perhaps my biggest complaint 
 is the dreaded "invisible wall," which constrains the battlefield size and is a regrettable annoyance.
 
  
  But the combat scheme is really excellent, and the mounted battles are something to experience. 
 The "special attack" with the couched lance is inspired.
  
  To make things even better and more interesting, you can acquire multiple heroes, each with manageable 
 stats and inventory. This is on top of the good variety of "generic" upgradeable troops with which 
 you can build up your forces. Strong party-based RPG elements to go along with REAL action that's 
 not just button-mashing; Mount and Blade offers something to lovers of old-school party-based RPG's, 
 and will make hack-and-slash fans positively drool.
  
  Some reviewers whined about the gameplay being too open-ended. (Probably the same reviewers who 
 gushed over the snooze-fest known as Morrowind.) PLEASE, YOU "BIGSHOT" REVIEW SITES, SPARE US ANY 
 MORE OF THE HYPERCRITICAL TRIPE WHICH SEEMS RESERVED STRICTLY FOR SMALLER DEVELOPERS. 
  
  I gave up on the aforementioned Morrowind for being too open-ended and just plain bo-o-o-o-ring. 
 But this game is different -- you gotta work your buttsky off just to scrape out a niche in this 
 world, and you are kept happily busy and in the thick of the fight just to survive and creep up 
 the ladder. There's a big gigantic gargantuan difference between wandering alone and aimlessly 
 through a very pretty RPG fantasy world (that would be Morrowind) , and from the M&B scenario where 
 you're fighting and scrounging and scraping along -- and fighting some more -- as you try to build 
 a halfway decent retinue and acquire some functional equipment and maybe get in good and have your 
 own castle eventually.
  
  Warts and all, the game is just plain fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: talknight2
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 4, 2008 11:13 am PT
Review:  Though this game might be light on storyline, the visuals, audio, and especially the battles more 
 than make up for it.
  
  You start the game by choosing your gender.
  Then you choose the profession of your father, how you spent your early childhood, what was your 
 profession, and what is the reason for you to set out as an adventurer in Calradia. These choices 
 determine your starting stats.
  
  Now you are sent to the character screen.
  
  From here you choose your name, your proficiencies with the different types of weapons, your attributes 
 and skills.
  
  When you're done with your background, you are showed a face editor that crushes even the Sims 
 2 editor into dust.
  
  You can choose your hair style and colour, your beard, your skin (Would you like to look like a 
 Mongol, a Middle-Easterner or a North-European, to name a few?) , your age, and of-course your facial 
 details, from the width of your head to the distance between your eyes.
  
  When your character is complete, your thrown into the land of Calradia, a land torn between endless 
 wars of rival kingdoms, a haven for knights and mercenaries, cutthroats and adventurers.
  Guess what? You can be any of these.
  
  You start on the world map with no definite purpose, 
 only carrying some food, a sword, a crossbow and an old shield, in addition to about a hundred 
 Denars and a simple horse. You can visit towns, villages and castles, talk to their inhabitants, 
 recruit soldiers and buy goods from them. If a lord is present he may have a quest for you. You 
 will usually be asked to deliver a letter to another lord, or collect a debt owed to some lord 
 by another one. Not very creative quests, that might put some players off, but don't dispair! You 
 will get far more challenging quests as you make a name for yourself in Calradia by defeating enemy 
 war-parties and gaining renown.
  
  Now, to the battle system.
  To tell the truth, I've never seen a better one. Not that I played a whole lot of RPG's in my life, 
 but this battle system still is very impressive. One of the main features is the realistic mounted 
 fighting. You can choose from a large veriety of weapons, armour and horses, each with their own 
 characteristics, advantages and disadvantages.
  For example, carrying a large pike will not allow you to ride a horse or carry a shield, but will 
 allow you to attack your enemies from a much greater distance than a sword, while riding on a horse 
 will limit your ability to use larger shields or aim your ranged weapons effectively (this effect 
 can be reduces by training your character in the Horse Archery skill) , but will give you speed, 
 momentum and elevation, not to mention the speed bonus on your attacks. 
  The second great feature of the fighting system is how you actually fight. Depending on your choice 
 of weaponry you can direct your attacks into thrusts, side swings and overhead swings with your 
 mouse. The same goes for parrying your enemie's attacks.
  Even the weather has an effect on the battles, as rain reduces the effectiveness of crossbows and 
 fog limits your visibility.
  You can also issue several simple commands to your party, such as Charge, Follow me, Hold this 
 position, Dismount, Fire at Will, etc., etc.
  Learning how to fight properly can take some time, but once you get the hang of it this game become 
 a real joy to play.
  
  Visuals.
  Really good. On par with even some of the latest full-budget games.
  Calradia is a beautiful 
 land, covered with mountains, grasslands, steppes, rivers and forests (which actually make a difference 
 on the battle map, much like in Medieval 2: Total War)
  The real beauty of the game shows when you enter the battle map, or have a stroll in a town, castle 
 or village.
  
  You can see many bushes, trees, and rocks. The water looks pretty good, and the sun is an incredible 
 sight at dawn or dusk (yes, the game has a day\night system) . At port towns you can also see longships 
 on the horizon (since all those towns belong to the Kingdom of Nords (an Anglo-Saxon type country) .
 
  
  Audio.
  Ear-candy. Very fitting Gothic-like soundtrack.
  
  
  Final Word.
  Great game. Really. If you love completely open-ended RPG's, this is your game.
  Stay away if 
 you prefer definite storylines, as may get bored quickly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alisteralis
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 25, 2008 10:17 pm PT
Review:  Create your character quickly with back story questions, level-up, collect items, do quests, attack 
 towns or castles and recruit more men. 
  
  You can shoot with a bow and arrow or crossbows while riding a horse. This is quite difficult to 
 master, but a hell of a lot fun if you get it right.
  
  I love every battle... if it's in the arena fighting to be the last man standing or ordering you 
 infantry to hold back while your archers follows you. Then when the enemy closes in... order your 
 infantry to attack. The block and counter attack makes the whole fighting so real. You must think 
 and concentrate on what you are doing.
  
  The game is totally open ended and you create your own story. You do what you want when you want. 
 
  
  Sure, here and there they can improve the game. But no one has done something like this before 
 as far as I've heard. 
  
  This is a great game... end of story.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mikeman0100
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 25, 2008 3:31 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the greatest Med-evil RPG's I've ever played. Actually it is one of the greatest 
 RPG's I've ever played. Graphically, and Story wise..... eh, needs work. Game play, controls, and 
 the fact that you can hire you own army is AWESOME. Character Management, and the ability to become 
 a Vassal to one of the Factions and have your own village you can collect TAXES! from, never before 
 heard of. Well its your choice you choose to play this game. I've spent 90% of the past month playing 
 this game. 10/10.... down right awesome maximum playability, unstoppable addiction to this game.
 
  
  This game is one of the greatest Med-evil RPG's I've ever played. Actually it is one of the greatest 
 RPG's I've ever played. Graphically, and Story wise..... eh, needs work. Game play, controls, and 
 the fact that you can hire you own army is AWESOME. Character Management, and the ability to become 
 a Vassal to one of the Factions and have your own village you can collect TAXES! from, never before 
 heard of. Well its your choice you choose to play this game. I've spent 90% of the past month playing 
 this game. 10/10.... down right awesome maximum playability, unstoppable addiction to this game 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TodoBond7
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 23, 2008 3:29 pm PT
Review:  The freedom this game allows is amazing! Sure, it takes a while to get use to feeding your party, 
 knowing where to go and which skills to perfect the most but that just part of what games used 
 to be about!
  I read in the gamespot review saying that this game offers little help. Thank god! What fun is 
 there is games which tell EXACTLY what you need to do and all you have to do is do it. Are we players 
 just following "orders"?
  Those who played assassin's creed know what I'm talking about..
  I personally welcomed the lack of guidance and the infinite possibilities that we are allowed! 
 The best part is that the game ends when you want it to end.
  
  Now turning to the combat everyone agrees that it is the best part of the game. There are virtually 
 no "freezing images" even without having a top notch PC and having 50 characters (not including 
 horses) fighting in the screen at the same time. My PC would freeze with just 2 enemies in oblivion! 
 However, the graphics are good and the landscapes are marvellous. Also, there are no loadings!
 
  The castles are very well designed and complete making it a pleasure to fight in them either attacking 
 or defending.
  
  But, the game isn't all good things and it still needs some work. It feels stupid to only have 
 1 ladder when attacking a castle and there are still some minor bugs to be fixed but, in general, 
 it is very well done.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: greatsword56
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 22, 2008 7:34 pm PT
Review:  This game is simply amazing. it is a true open ended action/RPG/RTS game. you can do anything you 
 could ever want to do in this game. you came be an notorious bandit, a noble lord, a rich merchant, 
 or a evil tyrant. the greatness of this game lies in its lack of story line. most other 'open ended' 
 games just have multiple story endings. this game allows you to be who you want to be, do things 
 how you want to do them, and i feel that is simply amazing. this game also has an amazing combat 
 system, which is very simple, but easily simulates the moves your character is doing. another thing 
 i found quite amazing was the degree in which you are able to customize your character. you can 
 change just about every aspect of your face. also, there are hundreds of different items, ranging 
 from meat cleavers to longbows. this is also a large trading aspect to this game. you can buy and 
 sell goods in different towns for a profit. combine this with the bloody, brutal combat, great 
 controls, good enough visuals, and an amazing amount of items, and you have what should be an award 
 winning game that will intently immerse you in its brutal awesomeness. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_Tigger
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 21, 2008 5:23 pm PT
Review:  From the outside looking in you may not understand the hype surrounding Mount & Blade from Tale 
 Worlds. There seems to be an awful lot of fans screaming and yelling about how awesome this game 
 is, with its mediocre graphics and somewhat empty game play. These fans were with M&B almost from 
 inception, and watched as the game was crafted texture by texture, frame by frame, with an open 
 coding and equally open rapport with the salivating fans. The end product is a result of love not 
 only for the game but for the community that surrounds it. 
  
  Many reviewers had never even heard of this game for the several years that it was in the hands 
 of the husband and wife development team, so the game is taken strictly for face value. Such it 
 should be, for a truly non-partial review, and so I see precisely why this game is getting the 
 mediocre marks. What troubles me, however, is that these scores might be deterring some from merely 
 sampling the game, and thereby falling in love with, and becoming addicted to, the most incredible 
 melee combat system in computer gaming history.
  
  M&B's setting is obviously medieval Europe with no specific races or nationalities involved. No 
 city on the map represents any particular historical town, but they all have obvious references 
 to Nordic, Western European, or Steppe cultures. The genre of the game is little more than a bare 
 bones RPG. There's no one evil king to fight, no one special heirloom to find, nor any specific 
 damsel to rescue that can bring justice to the land. Without giving the game much of a chance, 
 it's easy to become frustrated at the lack of direction in both setting, story, and character. 
 Many players may literally log in, look around, and ask, "Where the heck am I and what the heck 
 do I do next?" There's some story hidden in there about becoming ruler of an entire faction, or 
 the entire land, and retiringbut I've never bothered with it even after endless days of playing. 
 The best thing about all this lack of specific detail is there's not a single orc, elf, or magical 
 object to be found, so, with the exception of the fictional names, M&B truly is an open historical 
 medieval game.
  
  The gem centerpiece of M&B is its combat. Even at level one, combat is fast, dizzying, and brutal. 
 Whether you're solo against five bandits, or leading fifty well-armed and armored men against a 
 hundred raiders, never before have you experienced a directly-controlled medieval battle that rattles 
 the senses and pounds the pulse so well. You have to keep your head on a swivel as you attack, 
 dodge, and jump, whether or horse or on foot. Enemies come from all angles, and several will target 
 you specifically. The controls are surprisingly comprehensive as you block with your shield and 
 strike with the most basic of mouse moves resulting in more than just hacking and slashing in one 
 direction. You can trick your opponent into over extending with his double-hand sword and striking 
 with your sword or axe before he recovers, or listen to your shield splinter as he hacks through 
 it while you try to back away. Up close and personal not your style? Then grab a lance and mow 
 your enemies down on horseback, daring to look behind you only to see three attackers pursuing 
 you with equally sharp spears. You can strike from even further with longbows and crossbows, picking 
 targets of opportunity and calling the shots for your motley warriors from afar, all the while 
 dodging a cloud of arrows, javelin, and flying axes. Ragdoll physics send your foes flying off 
 of speeding horses and rolling down steep hills, reeling from the impact of your well placed shots.
 
  
  The battles can be fought in either first or third person, and can change on the fly from an action 
 game to a strategy game. Grab a faster horse and run to points of the map, rallying different troops 
 and organizing your forces for the next wave of slaughter. Build your army ahead of time, focusing 
 on light raiders, heavy cavalry, impregnable spearmen backed by heavy archers, or a wonderful mix 
 of unit types. The commands are limited, and you literally have to stand on the spot where you 
 want your men to stand before moving to another location to place the second group. Considering 
 the lack of a bullhorn, much less a heads-up display for the troops, in true medieval times, this 
 suddenly makes sense and is a welcome trifle.
  
  The game surrounding these wonderful moments is, sadly, lacking. You can spend the entire game 
 being a merchant and buying the finest in equipment for your troops by running trade routes, but 
 there's little challenge in what sells best where and running back and forth, all the while gaining 
 no experience unless you stop to beat up some hapless bandits on the wayside. You can run missions, 
 the same ones over and over, or you can go ahead and join up with one of the factions and do the 
 missions for them, the same ones, over and over.
  
  So the combat is truly the point and purpose of M&B. The surrounding economy and missions serve 
 only as means to gain better arms and armor or get involved in bigger battles. Everything either 
 takes place in a square town, village, castle siege, or open map with randomly (albeit beautifully) 
 generated terrain. There are no caves, beachfronts, hidden ravines, or hidden lakes, and the only 
 fighting done indoors is a single room at the end of a castle siege. Sieges, by the way, are just 
 more combat with a wall and a single ladder. No catapults, ballistas, flaming pitch or boiling 
 oil are used, just you, your men, and the wonderful combat controls.
  
  It sounds empty, but consider that people will pay the same price as M&B for "mini-games" and puzzles. 
 M&B is a combat generator with a loose story tying it to an entirely open setting. It offers little 
 more than brutal, bloody, frantic combat in a true medieval setting. That's NOT a bad thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheYokai
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 18, 2008 10:35 pm PT
Review:  Mount & Blade is kind of like the lottery: you keep trying and trying to do well and eventually 
 you probably will, but it's going to take quite a while and it's really all up to chance. Unlike 
 most RPGs, your character in M&B won't necessarily be more successful as he levels up, because 
 even if you've been doing really well and have your own band of powerful mercenaries and companions, 
 you can suddenly be ambushed by 30-odd bandits
  or enemy troops and lose your money, your troops, and your best items, so aside from your stats, 
 you're basically back to square one and have to earn money and hire your army all over again.
 
  Not only this, but there are some oddly equivalent pros and cons in the game as well. The character 
 creation is very advanced, allowing you to create a totally unique face for your hero, but in-game 
 the head is enormously detailed while the body is a low-poly, rather poorly textured object. There 
 are many unique and interesting weapons and items of clothing, but your character appears on screen 
 in 3rd-person view as head and shoulders only, so you can't see your clothes, your weapons beside 
 the bow, or your horse. For all the epic size of the kingdoms you can explore and the diversity 
 of the various noblemen and NPCs you can meet, there's not even the semblance of a plotline, making 
 it more of a sim than an RPG.
  However, one's not always doomed to failure. After being beaten up, robbed, imprisoned and dragged 
 halfway across the continent, having to relocate your NPC companions who are happily biding their 
 time in taverns in various cities on opposite ends of a kingdom while you struggle to remain fed, 
 you will eventually complete a well-paying quest, buy some decent armor and weapons and hire some 
 experienced mercenaries. You'll be a powerful lord and conquer many enemies on multiple battlefronts. 
 I mean in all seriousness that this is awesome, and it's great fun to storm an enemy castle and 
 watch your forces crush the opposition, then reap the benefits as the new lord of the castle and 
 surrounding lands. However, it takes so long and is so hair-tearingly frustrating that it almost 
 isn't worth it. This game is worth playing, but be prepared to bypass the odd graphical choices 
 and ready yourself for all manner of virtual blood, sweat and tears before getting anywhere with 
 Mount and Blade. 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 48Days
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 12, 2008 2:02 pm PT
Review:  Mount and Blade is simply the most engaging game I have ever played. It sucks you in with the ultimate 
 freedom to do whatever you want. Many games have tried this, but you still get stuck in a mostly 
 linear plot. In Mount and Blade, you make your own plot. Want to forge your fortune through trade? 
 Or perhaps raid trading caravans leading a band out outlaws? Become a Lord and fight for glory 
 and honour? The choice is yours.
  
  The game does however need some work. The graphics aren't much by today's standards. There's a 
 few annoying glitches. How about some variety in the missions? The world can start to seem small, 
 and the logistics of managing large parties are a little annoying.
  
  Bottom line, while somewhat limited and repetitive, Mount and Blade is an incredibly fun game with 
 the ability to suck away all of your precious free time. Hopefully we will see a much improved 
 Mount and Blade 2 in the not so distant future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigkiwi
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 6, 2008 9:29 am PT
Review:  The graphics arent awesome in the main map view, but the game play of this game is awesome and 
 very addictive. You really feel your in a real world and your actions have real effect on it! And 
 I haven't even spoken about the awesome battle phases. I fought marathon battles in this game with 
 100's of units each side, your in control of your actions and you can give your troops orders and 
 they behave with their own will and ideas of how to carry out those orders which makes for a very 
 realistic battle and the graphics and ease of control while fighting on horse back or on foot are 
 amazing. This game easily is the best value game ive purchased in years a very pleasant surprise. 
 What is great is that it has 2 very different games in one a strategic element mainly played out 
 on the large map screen and more of a role playing element played out inside town and during battle 
 modes, with a hint of RTS. If you love deep interesting challenging games with open ended scope 
 this is a game for you! I cant wait to see if they bring out a mount and blade II, with some enhancments 
 here and there maybe some voice acting, improved graphics, maybe some resource management to name 
 a few this could be a world beating classic!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: youwillfearme
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 5, 2008 11:56 pm PT
Review:  I write this review mostly because I feel that Gamespot are biased, but that doesn't change the 
 fact that M&B is an awesome game!
  
  If the staff here, and many others places, actually took the time to play the games they review 
 for more then 5 hours, and read less about what everyone else is saying beforehand, they'd see 
 that there's more to a game then what their warped minds tell them is. 
  
  PC games these days are less judged by their game mechanics, and more by how much more time its 
 devs spent on mare graphics.
  
  Bottom line: If you like games with old fashioned warfare, without orcs and wizards and so on; 
 and you happen to have a passion for both RTS and FPS -- Buy M&B, and join the growing community! 
 You can't go wrong with this one! You can even try the full game for free (up to lvl 7, which takes 
 awhile) and see for yourself what the fuzz is about on the street.
  
  Now I can finally break out "The Art of Warfare" and get my moneys worth for that too!
  
  P. S. 
 I know the review lacks constructive remarks regarding the game. I can't think of anything... negative... 
 to say -- I don't pull rabbits out of my hat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Legolose
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 3, 2008 10:43 am PT
Review:  This was probly one of the most under rated games I have ever seen, what do you mean a 6.0, come 
 on this is one of the best games I have played in a long time. Clearly at least a 8.0 to 9.5. Lets 
 start off by saying that for one you got to be inpressed that this game was developed by a Turkish 
 couple and not some major company. Two the overall concept is mind blowing "free roaming, can be 
 a knight or server as a lord for someone or just be an all out badit" I love the whole thing on 
 if you get enough honor and get well known then the king gives you towns and villages "which you 
 can upgrade with manor houses schools, a mill, watch towers," now I have only built a manor house 
 and I whent to the town center and it did seem to change the town it self which I hope they put 
 in M&B 2 "Saying with my fingers crossed"... the combat takes a litlle to get use to but once you 
 have it down its one of the best battle systems I have played, all in all this game is freakin 
 crazy good and you can only hope that it does good enought to put out M&B 2 "Lets hope folks" but 
 you can see the greatness of this game and were it is going to be heading... So folks go out there 
 and support the lonely little copuple out there and by there game, it only about 20$ or so dollars 
 in most places... its about time we put these big companys down that make crappy games year after 
 year "EA" and support the guys with the good games.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshjo9
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 31, 2008 9:29 pm PT
Review:  A good game but gets to go on and on and on what ever you do in the game makes a huge impact and 
 it ruins it like your working for this one guy and some other person dosent like it it just ruins 
 the relationship with them and it gets to be boring and unfair the good thing about the game is 
 the combat seqence its fun but also gets boring to playin over and over just to win a war I like 
 the games once you do it its done when you make a character they start to get boring but heres 
 a hint in the game make your prisoner managment as high as you can get it then use a blunt wepon 
 and go around captureing people thats what i did I like this game but most of the other rpgs are 
 better oblivion gothic 3 bioshock fallout 3 but first try the demo before buying instead but it 
 gets a 7.5 for me try it like it buy it
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fution2
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 29, 2008 10:44 am PT
Review:  Before getting this game i read through gamespots review on this , after finishing reading about 
 the game and what they thought about it i was alittle taken back about buying this game . However 
 i read alot of the player reviews on here about this game and how unfair they thought gamespot 
 had been with there review of the game . So i thought okay i will give it a try based on our good 
 feedback from the members on here . Well i have to say i agree with those of you who thought gamespot 
 were harsh with this game and the overall rating they gave to it . First of i just wanna say , 
 this isn't Morrowind Oblivion , if you think your gonna pick this game up and expecting it to be 
 Oblivion then im afraid you will be in for a shock , however just cos its not like Morrowind that 
 dosen't mean this game isn't good cos its very good imo . One of the first elements you find when 
 playing Mount & Blade is that you need to work with some tactics , mainly with your own band of 
 warriors cos they are the key to taking down castles , citys or just generally making your way 
 round and being a sucessful warlord/hero , whichever way you feel fit to choose . Once you get 
 use to using your group to the best of there ablilitys and implying tactics then you soon can start 
 progressing throughout the game making your name known . Theres alot to choose from aswell in this 
 from alot of skills to choose and upgrade, to character customization . Another thing i noticed 
 in this game is that the world map is bloody big lol , i think it will keep you pretty busy trying 
 to conquer most of it , as theres also five tribes controlling the overall map (which you can choose 
 to swear your allegiance to , and others to ally yourself with ) , also you can leave your tribe 
 and try to help outcast royals reclaim there rightful positions (i: e the current tribe kingdoms) 
 . In honesty theres alot to do in Mount & Blade , theres some quests you can do for the Lords , 
 Kings or just individual towns/citys , i must admit it would of been nice to of seen atouch more 
 creativity with some of the quests , they do feel atouch empty but its a good way to make abit 
 of gold/xp to start of with . Obviously like most RPGs there is a variety of weapons and armour 
 to upgrade yourself plus your some of your own army with , then theres also horses aswell which 
 you can find or get better ones to , so theres a fair amount of stuff to be had there .
  Finally onto the graphics and combat , graphics wise i would say Mount & Blade won't blow you away 
 compared to some of the more powerful engines that are about , however we all know good graphics 
 dosen't always mean a game is good or bad (just think the original GTA games) . Combat wise i like 
 the way Mount & Blade feels for the most , using crossbows, bows or generally killing from horseback 
 feels alot of fun and will have you hooked for agood while. Its only weak point is perhaps on foot 
 when you get up close and personal with ppl that the combat feels atouch clumsy , sometimes it 
 can be hardwork trying to lay into ppl with a sword when you get crowded and sometimes when you 
 go to strike ppl your sword arm just stays in the air while you get belted lol , still as i say 
 this only happens when your very close to ppl , apart from this minor niggle the combat in Mount 
 & Blade can be very satisfying.
  I think the bestway i can explain Mount & Blade and how it plays is like this , think of the games 
 Kessen and Dynasty Warriors on the consoles , now merge the two , to me thats how Mount & Blade 
 feels to me , it has strategy and action elements to it . Hell if you love jumping into massive 
 epic battles and getting down n dirty but also having a edge of strategy with it , then i think 
 you will like this game alot . I think this game deserves about a 8.5 score imo :)
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jnf17
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 29, 2008 1:46 am PT
Review:  Great game! Its very addictive and a fun thing to do. Its not fair that you train up a very good 
 army get captured and then lose them all. Arhh well..... Its realistic! Fairly good graphics, awesome 
 gameplay, realistic fighting. Heaps of weapons, from lances to crossbows to heavy war axes. You 
 get to train up your own army and fight along side them, fight in numerous tornements and arena 
 battles, EVEN seige castles! You can ride diffrent types of horses from Heavy Battle Horses to 
 quick Hunters and bay's. You need a fast computer to run it properly but if you don't mind playing 
 the game a little slowly and computer will do! Making allies and enimies with different Countries 
 and Lords is a fun part of the game, esspecially when you and 5 other lords hold a seige against 
 enemies. NOW THATS SOMETHING TO REMEMBER! "As the seige tower moves up, arrows are fly everywhere. 
 From the castle walls and also from the ground. I tell my men to to get ready! I know this is a 
 losing battle, but were Nords and to get through to this castle they will have to go through us". 
 As the tower lands I hear screems of bloodthirsty Nords everywhere. I charge in myself. "LETS HAVE 
 SOME FUN"! - What i think my character would of been think about at one of the sieges. I recomended 
 it to those who like rpg's with an army suporting your back! ALL ROUND GREAT GAME! HAVE FUN! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: siyideng
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 28, 2008 11:29 pm PT
Review:  One word to describe this game: pure awesomeness. Ok that's two words. With regard to the simulation 
 of medieval warfare, you simple won't be able to find any other game that is even close to Mount 
 and Blade. First of all don't think this as a traditional RPG, it is better to be considered as 
 a simulation game, since never have I seen a game so faithful to historical details. The character 
 upgade system is so thoughtfully designed that it total eclipses the Diablo series. The item prefix 
 system is also very well balanced. In short, flicks like crysis might be the pinnacle of computer 
 3d visualization, but this game is the state of art of simulation.
  
  The better news is that this game is continuously evolving and very open to modding. Don't believe 
 the GS review, give it a try and you'll find yourself couldn't stop playing . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MartinSakur
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 28, 2008 7:34 am PT
Review:  Mount&Blade is great game to play. It combines the Real Time Strategy and Role Playing Game elements, 
 what is just great. Mount&Blade alone would be quite boring, but there a lot of mods what you can 
 download. There are mods to every taste. What is also great is that this ain't no ordinary magic 
 in medieval sort of game, this is like true medieval time. But if you want some magic, weird creatures, 
 different races and so on then you can always download mods. There are also a huge amount of armors, 
 weapons, skills, quests and other stuff like that. Mostly i like that you can make money almost 
 any thinkable way. You can be a gladiator who fights in arena, you can be bandit who's robbing 
 caravans, you can merchant who will trade, you can be a simple land lord who gonna take away everything 
 from his farmers and so on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johntonx
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 23, 2008 10:01 am PT
Review:  This year we have pleased with several new good games. FIFA 09 arrived as the better soccer game 
 ever, GTA IV is simply fantastic, Turok is an ambitious game, Spore, despite of being technically 
 weak is very fun. And in September, Mount & Blade comes out, and honestly, this game is amazing.
 
  
  The combat system is really good. This game have much to explore, much to see, and despite having 
 some boring aspects, it's still a very addictive game.
  
  The only thing that really don't help is the graphics. The are as old as 2004/2005, but the visual 
 is not all bad. The characters are well designed, with good shading and reflexes in the helmets, 
 shields, etc. The cities and castles are so recycled that sometimes you think that you are in a 
 city dozen of kilometers far away.
  
  The sound is acceptable, with the sounds of you blade cutting your opponent (not exactly) in two. 
 The songs are very great and adds sense of immersion to the game (in real life there are no music, 
 but imagine a game without a good soundtrack) .
  
  The game play is sometimes nice, sometimes weak. The combat system is the best part of the game 
 (even so it's mostly optional, but nobody don't want to lose the wars, at least in the game) . But 
 the quests are really bad made, repetitive, and nonsense. They consist almost every time in kill 
 murderers, collect debts, save some girls. Nothing more. The trade is good, but very boring.
  
  If you read the last two paragraphs, you probably will think: Man, this guy doesn't really 
 liked this game. But not. This game is a revolution, because it does not follow the same old style 
 of make an RPG, always featuring medieval combat (every one without the cavalry!) with monsters, 
 or Chinese culture. Mount & Blade flees from the generic routes of the RPGs, and because of this 
 it's a very great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KainsDaughter
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 22, 2008 4:29 pm PT
Review:  I stumbled over this game more or less by chance and decided to give a try. After installing it, 
 I was a little disappointed with the Graphics but soon that vanished. In one of the Beta Versions, 
 I started to work myself into the game, learn the mechanics, the possibilities and the dangers 
 and soon, I couldn't get enough.
  
  Mount & Blade is a hard to describe game. It is open ended and while it has some strategic aspects, 
 the most fun parts in this game are, from my point of view, the actual battles.
  
  No game that I have played so far, has focused with so much love and details on mounted combat. 
 This includes the charging ability of your horses, the fact that it has health points and you may 
 eventually be thrown down to ground if your loyal beast has been shot one too many times, it also 
 takes the height differences of terrain into consideration. You will have to aim lower if you are 
 riding down a hill and have an enemy to your right. On the other hand, if you ride up a hill, you 
 don't have to aim that low. Horse Archery takes a while to learn, quite a few points in the right 
 skills, and a lot of patience to master it. But it is a nice thrill to gallop after an enemy and 
 shooting him down with ease.
  
  There are many small situations that thrilled me, made me happy and really angry but a battle with 
 110 good Soldiers against an enemy force of 420 and almost willing... nothing beats that, defeat 
 or not.
  
  There is much more about M&B that is worth mentioning. Getting your own castle, having to feed 
 and pay your army, free fellow lords, defend a lady's honor, raid villages or defend them... it 
 is all in this game.
  
  Honestly, it is one of the better games I have tried in a long time and the always growing modding 
 community will make sure, that things will never get boring.
  More horses, more weapons, new quests, better graphics.
  
  Give it a try and maybe you will 
 join those that think that a 6.0 Score is not enough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: muranternet
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 22, 2008 1:56 pm PT
Review:  To be fair I have been playing M&B since it was in beta 0.610 or thereabouts. It was rough and 
 unpolished then, but it was the first game of its kind, an incredibly immersive and fun steel-and-horses 
 age combat simulator. I bought it immediately, and have never looked back.
  
  This first thing that confuses people including off-the-cuff Gamespot reviewers is that this game 
 is not Oblivion. Taleworlds went in a completely different direction, instead of rehashing the 
 same formulaic crap that infests the game publishing world today, and they should be thanked for 
 it. Instead, they get rated down for NOT being boring. This is not strictly speaking an RPG in 
 the way that the industry thinks of RPGs. It is not strictly a strategy game. It is not a shooter. 
 So what is it?
  
  Mount & Blade is a great sandbox game, along the lines of Pirates!, but more interesting (to me, 
 anyway) . You get thrown into the game and from there can literally do whatever you want. The game 
 does skew towards combat professions and goals, since its greatest strength is its combat engine, 
 but you can be a merchant, a rebel, a vassal, a mercenary, even a tournament specialist. You can 
 even do several of these things in sequence, defining the career of your character through your 
 gameplay choices.
  
  The combat engine is utterly magnificent. This is one of the rare games where you can come up with 
 a solution to a problem by doing what you would do in the real world, and it works! On foot, you 
 turn your body in the same direction as your weapon swing as you make contact, and you get an increase 
 in damage. Duck in and out of striking range based on the actual length of the weapons you and 
 your opponent are using. Stand on the high ground with your bow for a range advantage that you 
 can see happening as your arrows take a natural dropping flight path. Get back up on the hill to 
 slow the momentum of that gyu riding down on you, step to his blind side, and chop his horse out 
 from under him so you can brain him while he tries to get back up. This is a lot more immersive 
 and gratifying than spending points on various melee skills and hitting control buttons for special 
 moves over and over again while standing in one place.
  
  The political and economic systems in vanilla (un-modded) Mount & Blade are simple, but they work! 
 Build up friendships with local lords by doing stupid errands for them if you like, or else catch 
 them in combat with a superior force and run in to save their bacon, which they'll be grateful 
 for. Build favor with the ladies of the court so they can funnel bribes for you to lords who mislike 
 you. Gain enough renown and favor with your liege to be put forward as a candidate for Marshall, 
 but make sure you can curry enough votes to win the election. Burn local villages to prevent enemy 
 lords from recruiting there, and kill their caravans to stagnate their city's economy. Note: You 
 will not see this mentioned by a reviewer who spends less than an hour playing the game and can 
 only compare it to Oblivion.
  
  I have seen lack of a concrete storyline mentioned as a weakness in some reviews along the same 
 lines as Mr. Todd's review. The game lacks a storyline because it's not supposed to have one! There 
 is a background, there is an ongoing political dynamic, but you create your own story. Honestly, 
 I don't understand the point of "story" based games where you walk through in a linear fashion, 
 click some buttons, and listen to some voiceovers. To me the last great story-based computer game 
 was Fallout, which also incorporated a sandbox play style as part of its dynamic, in addition to 
 some really great lore. Nowadays, if you really want to follow a storyline, you can probably find 
 better and longer-lasting ones in different media. Books, for instance. (If you lack the imagination 
 required to have a rewarding experience reading a book and prefer the multimedia experience brought 
 to you by some hack writing computer games, there is always television.)
  
  The most important thing to me about Mount & Blade, though, is that it captured my attention back 
 then, and still does. I spend many nights not going to sleep because there's one more siege I want 
 to pull off, or one of my rebellion faction lords who needs help, or some juicy enemy caravans 
 waiting to be plundered. I would rate its replayability along the same lines as the original Civilization 
 when it came out (and I basically wasted six months of my life on that) . Not many games nowadays 
 can even capture my interest, let alone hold it for longer than a couple of days. It's just that 
 much fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wutevar
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 21, 2008 4:40 am PT
Review:  Mount&Blade is first and foremost an action game. True, the elements of management, RPG and tactics 
 are strong here but Medieval combat is what it's really about.
  
  Now, how many games do what they are supposed to be doing exceptionally well? Not as many as you'd 
 probably think. Now, does M&B succeed in doing what it's supposed to well? The short answer is: 
 Without a doubt.
  
  Since M&B also dabbles as a RPG (Your character is customizable, his stats affect both his and 
 his allies' fighting capabilities, diplomacy, trade, army management and many, many more parameters) 
 people automatically assume the game has to have an engaging storyline or maybe a setting rich 
 with lore, and to a degree - they're right. No game labeled an RPG is great without these qualities. 
 However, M&B isn't so much about roleplay as it is about leading a sizable force into epic clashes 
 times and again against your adversaries and there is ample customization on all things medieval 
 to go along with that. You can be a bandit king, leading a rag-tag band of low-lives and criminals 
 to prey on caravans and pillage villages or be a knight in shining armor in service for your king, 
 or a mercenary trooper, or even a loner - It's all up to you. 
  
  Combat is simply fun, especially when the forces on both sides are many. It is fast-paced, action-packed 
 and filled with memorable moments - few games can boast the player witnessing their cavalry force 
 mow down the enemy infantry in a glorious charge or a squad of crossbowmen peppering the enemy 
 ranks from atop a steep hill. With the addition of individual squad-commands combat has become 
 much more tactical, and when you're playing on the hardcore difficulties (normal damage to you 
 and your soldiers) it becomes essential to quickly positioning your army in key locations, or leading 
 an effective charge against the enemy.
  
  The controls are simple no matter how you choose to play be it on foot or mounted. Each type of 
 weapon also feels distinct, swinging a sword on foot isn't the same as using one while engaging 
 in mounted combat. Same goes with spears, lances, axes bows and crossbows. Axes for example as 
 usually slow and heave, but can easily break shields and pierce through all but the thickest armor. 
 Swords are fast and have a decent reach as well as impact but are ineffective against shields. 
 Spears are powerful from afar but useless once the opponent closes in on you, crossbows are lethal, 
 capable of delivering swift death in a single shot but are painfully slow etc etc etc... Your character 
 (and officers) have 4 slots intended for weapons/shields/ammunition, so you can really mix & match 
 your selection for every situation.
  
  Castle assaults & defenses add another layer of strategy to combat, as it is generally much easier 
 to defend a castle than it is to conquer it. But should you make the mistake of deploying cavalry 
 units to defend your castle and your enemy will bring a force of infantry specialists the battle 
 will be over before you know it. Each unit has its' strengths and weaknesses in every situation. 
 Cavalry for example is weak when defending a castle or in a forest, or river or a steep mountain 
 but powerful in open areas while archers take good advantage of fortifications, terrain elevations 
 or just a wall of sturdy infantry to separate them from the enemy. 
  
  Aside from the recruitment of your forces you can also manage villages, castles and even cities 
 (should your liege find it right to award you lordship over one) You can build improvements in 
 them such as a messenger's post to notify you of incoming attacks, prison to boost your prisoner 
 capacity, barracks, schools and whatnot. You can subdue enemy lords and work in tandem with your 
 fellow lords, assisting them in combat and vice-versa. From time to time, your king may see it 
 fit to launch a large attack on your enemy by summoning you and almost every other lord to support 
 the royal army in battle. It is impressive, to say the last, to be part of the fight when the enemy 
 sallies forth to meet your assault.
  
  Aesthetically, M&B's graphics probably won't impress you, but at the same time they won't disappoint 
 you either. The landscape looks and feels satisfactory, it is also always generated anew in accordance 
 to where on the map you fight. Every castle, city and hamlet is hand-crafted from what I can tell, 
 and not one has the same layout or architecture as others. (Not sure why the Gamespot reviewer 
 mentioned they all look alike, because they don't) .
  
  M&B also features other game mechanics such as trade, questing and tournaments and a rapidly growing 
 modding community guaranteeing you won't tire of this game as fast as some would claim.
  
  With its' bargain price of 20$ you most definitely shouldn't pass up on M&B! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2-dman
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 18, 2008 11:59 pm PT
Review:  the graphics could use a little work, its hard to control, highly addictive, good setting, its 
 interesting but is still needing much more work, i would call this game 80% done.
  
  the controls for swinging the sword needs to be made better and the arrows need to have less of 
 a gravity effect (for better game play and less realism, much more fun) .
  
  despite its flaws, i have been addicted to this game since i started it. if ur thinking bout trying 
 it, do so, trust me, its worth it.
  
  the creators should be ashamed of themselves for creating a really good game, but destroy it by 
 making it too realistic.
  
  for all of you who still arnt convinced, think of it like this, this game was designed for you 
 to follow your own path, it is much more flexible than a lot of other games, you do not have to 
 do said amount of stuff to continue.
  
  so enjoy everyone, i know i will 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Garythemessage
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 18, 2008 7:23 pm PT
Review:  This is funny. I love "plain old" medieval games with no spells. You know? As real as possible. 
 So I wanted to try Mount & Blade right of the bat, but I waited to see Gamespot's review and saw 
 the "6.0" and almost passed. Then I saw that users were giving it a very high score and I thought 
 I'd buy it and give it a shot. The first hour was spent in absolute misery!
  
  I didn't read anything. I just started playing. The initial training was quite fun, but once I 
 was loosed upon the map - I was at a complete loss. I got killed/captured several times right the 
 beginning and I began itching to uninstall and throw the game in the trash. It was boring. The 
 only thing I could do was herd cattle for poor folks.
  
  I had no idea what I was in store for! I finally found a noble in a castle, did a REAL quest, meet 
 up with King Ragnar and joined in on the fight! Holy Moly! This is fun. The first time I nailed 
 a strike from full gallop, I was hooked. I stayed up till 4:00 am playing! I'm following this king 
 around and trying to stay alive, but I'm really loving the horseback fighting.
  
  I quickly realized how powerful I was on my horse. I was wreaking havoc on the crossbowmen. Then 
 - WHACK! I got lanced by a quick moving enemy. I cannot remember ever enjoying getting my "you 
 know what" handed to me in a game before. You know it's fun when even getting wiped out is enjoyable! 
 But wait, when a battle and hear the men crying out, it's soooo very gratifying.
  
  One thing I did was cheat a little to avoid having to "grind." I hate doing that. I've never understood 
 why every game starts you off as a complete weakling. That's no fun! But do as you will, if cheating 
 is abhorrent to you - don't do it! In my mind "grinding" is the same thing, it only takes a lot 
 longer.
  
  Bottom line. If you like war games with lots of strategy and action - this is your game. If you 
 like medieval RPG - give this a shot. If you like fighting from horseback - RUN TO THIS GAME! Oh, 
 and I've played for hours and hours without a single crash or glitch. Not one single one. I did 
 patch, but I don't know which one though. Very very stable game, even with guys fighting and dying 
 by the dozen! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord455
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 16, 2008 2:10 pm PT
Review:  Mount and Blade reminded me of why I bother to keep playing games. Its been years since I've played 
 one that was this fun and exciting. If I get burned one more time paying for an overrated game 
 that gets shelved after two weeks I'm gonna puke. This game, thankfully isn't one of those. 
  
  M&B is very refreshing and has a replayable feel to it that keeps it from getting boring, which 
 is definitely my biggest problem with games. Although I must admit that my time and money are short 
 so I've missed a lot of titles.
  
  M&B is very satisfying to play at any level, but gains depth, magnitude, and purpose as you grow 
 more powerful and influential with the 5 factions that currently rule the continent.
  
  I read Gamespots review, stating that it lacks direction, or is unfinished, too open, something 
 along those lines. Some of the players also complained about no story, boring quests, repetitive 
 dialog... etc, most of it is debatable. In my opinion it doesn't even matter if they're right or 
 wrong. M&B's core gameplay, the battles, are outstanding. Anything else is just icing on the cake, 
 and there's plenty of icing. 
  
  Here's some specifics on things I liked and disliked about the game.
  
  Likes:
  
  #1 Fighting: 
 its not a grind, mindless click-fest , or stupid mini game. They're fun, exciting, and fairly realistic. 
 You can take cover behind objects, dodge, miss, attack at many different angles, defend yourself 
 with shields and weapons. There's some real physics here, you have to make your character do all 
 of these things, not push a button and let some algorithm calculate the outcome. Its all easily 
 done with the mouse and WASD keys. (and no It doesn't hurtlimpwrist) Your attributes, gear and 
 skill points only augment your effectiveness during a fight, they do not solely dictate whether 
 you will kick ass or get ass-kicked. I LOVE THAT! 
  
  #2 Battles are Unique: Lots of variety. Fight in towns, assault or defend castles, raid villages. 
 You can have huge epic battles, small personal skirmishes, 1v1, 1v500 (good luck) .. anything. Tournaments 
 in the cities are fun, betting on yourself is a nice touch. The terrain, time of day, and weather 
 change. The battles in this game will blow your mind and get your blood pumpin, especially when 
 the stakes are high and your greatly outnumbered.
  
  #3 Leveling your character: it's very satisfying. There seems to be no end in sight. Each level 
 gives you points to spend on attributes, skills, and weapon proficiencies. You decide where they 
 get spent, and unlike a lot of games there isn't only 1 or 2 viable paths to follow. It all depends 
 on how you want to play. I had a guy that was a great horse archer, a guy who could lead huge armies, 
 one who was a badass melee fighter. I'm now trying a more balanced character. All of them can kick 
 assonce I got better with the game anyways. But the important thing is that by now I normally 
 would have been bored stiff, but I'm not, its actually getting better as I learn a few things here 
 n there.
  
  #4 Leveling your army. Muhaaaaa!! Just when you thought it couldn't get any better. You can acquire 
 companions that level just like you do. Specialize em, gear em out. They'll compliment the skills 
 your lacking in, allowing you to follow your own path successfully, very cool. You can hire new 
 recruits and upgrade them as they gain xp from battle or training, or hire fully geared mercs. 
 You can even hire prisoners released from enemy armies you've beaten or from the poor fools you've 
 taken as prisoners yourself.
  
  #5 Signing on with one of the factions is fun, and rewarding, it opens a whole new facet to the 
 game. Get your own towns and castles, all able to be occupied, defended and upgraded. The other 
 lords occasionally will ask you to join a campaign where you go around ganging up on the enemy, 
 laying siege to castles and reeking havoc. Fun! When you get skilled and powerful enough you wont 
 even need their help anymore. 
  
  #6 No Story. Good, I can make up my own, it goes like this: Young green horn goes out and gets 
 smacked down by all the scum littering this fine nation. He's pissed and works real hard honing 
 his skills fighting the gutterslime infestation, while also helping the good folk trying to make 
 an honest living. After many victories, and honorable actions, his reputation and leadership abilities 
 grow and he amasses a huge army of dedicated followers who start to kick some serious ass. One 
 of the Kings recognizes this and offers him a vassalage, bestowing him a lordship and fief. His 
 valorous actions climb him to the top and he eventually acquires his own castle and even becomes 
 the Kings Marshall. After leading his fellow countrymen to victory after glorious victory, he now 
 has conquered and united all of the lands and gets laid every day because chicks can no longer 
 resist his long torso and shaggy beard. The end.
  
  Dislikes: 
  
  I begrudgingly concede a few small issues.
  
  #1 AI isn't the best: It's not bad either, I've 
 seen a lot worse, but sometimes soldiers just stand around, or don't follow your orders the way 
 you'd like. Sometimes the lords make bad decisions, especially when you're campaigning with them. 
 They'll pass up a lightly defended castle to get slaughtered by some huge army or turn away from 
 an important strategic target to kill a worthless caravan.
  
  #2 Graphics are a bit out dated. Not big deal for me because I don't care my 6800 couldn't take 
 it anyways.
  
  
  I think the biggest issue people have with this game is that it has the potential to go beyond 
 crazy-insane fun. A lot of good mods for the older betas work towards it, and I cant wait for them 
 to catch up to the latest version, but I'm not going to review this game based off what it could 
 have been, just what it is. I'm just thankful that we have it at all. Think of what EA would have 
 done with it after several years of development?
  
  So I'm not going to complain about the could-haves. But damn would it not be cool if you could 
 dump pitch on troops or man-up a catapult or ballista and fire at formations advancing towards 
 your castle. Build up towns into huge fortresses, with towers, motes, working draw bridges, lootable 
 treasure rooms and armories. Or smash them down with siege weapons. Set up trade routes, diplomatic 
 agreements / treaties. Traverse large bodies of water with transports and naval units. And multi-playerholy 
 &*#$ this game would start unfire if it had that. I'd Love to have my brother and cousin by my 
 side, or run down my friends pathetic army.
  
  Bottom line. M&B is great! A ground breaking, instant classic, must-have game. It just has a few 
 minor issues and a bit too much wasted potential for a perfect score though. I'll save that 10 
 for M&B2 the game that's so damn good you'll poop in your pants.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hankus18
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 16, 2008 7:36 am PT
Review:  The game is great, very addictive, first game i played that lets you inside the battlefield like 
 that. The are some key elements missing, slow advancment in game, highly repetitive. Grat graphics, 
 great AI, Amazing battle feel. I think the game need to give the player more inspiration to keep 
 doing things, and ofcourse more things to do, there are quiest but its not nearly enought, quests 
 repeat to much, and it makes it very dejavu like.
  
  The fact that some times you can beat anyone, and some times you are completly broke, its something 
 that keeps the game interesting. Grat thing that you can develop your cities and villages. Which 
 gives you some bonuses. 
  
  Compared to other games out there this seems like a great choice for advanced players and noobs. 
 Lacks of multiplayer, thats a minus.
  I recommend to everyone!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zakld
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 16, 2008 12:06 am PT
Review:  What I mean to say is that this is a lower class game because it has no dialogues, the graphics 
 are alot poorer than most of today's games. even so, this game can easily compete with the best 
 games ever created. And whilst I do not think it is the game of the year I do think it is absolutely 
 revolutionary. There aren't many games like this one out there, staged in the middle ages where 
 you can ride and fight in an open world. The only thing I have to say I do not like is the open 
 endness of the game. Even if you conquer everything for yourself or another faction (I've tried 
 both) the game does not end which is what it ideally should do. When I conquered everything myself 
 there were many error messages. 
  
  I truly am impressed and very pleasantly surprised by this game. The fighting is just unparalleled. 
 So many nice ideas are in there and it is truly revolutionary. I hope more games of this type come 
 out as I simply love the middle ages and that type of fighting (I will be naturally a bit bias 
 then because I do like this type of games - when people give their personal opinions like they 
 do in reviews they have to be bias and while you may not agree with them you cannot tell them they 
 are wrong because it is an honest opinion they truly personally hold) .
  
  The game is very immersive as well. You have a couple of companions and they argue with each other 
 and fight alongside you. You meet a number of lords and can improve relationship with them or rob 
 them. You can be a bandit, an honest trader and do favours and work for yourself or you can join 
 a faction. 
  
  Having said that I really like the game, there many improvements this game could have. I would 
 say the game deserves a 7 but bearing in mind how well it plays and how revolutionary it can be 
 I will give it an 8.
  
  8 is because it is refreshing but it's not more than 8 because much much more could have been done 
 to improve it.
  
  To mention some of these: a greater number of village improvements as well as castle improvements 
 that can actually be seen so for example you conquer a poor castle and you turn it into an amazing 
 wonder and you can actually see the building going on when you visit. You can choose how many workers 
 you want to hire and how many experts you want to hire, the more you hire the faster it finishes 
 and the more improvements they can build. You should be able to build several improvements at once 
 as long as you've got the dough. Also, you could choose the material you want to use, the quality 
 stuff or the poor stuff. Here you could play with supplies of the stuff you need, perhaps you need 
 to personally make sure the supplies get there if they are valuable. You should also be able to 
 customise your castle, so you can choose if you want the wall to look like this or like that, do 
 you want the archers to have greater protection but less of visiibility. 
  Another idea is to have servants who collect tax from fiefs. Also the fiefs should sometime complain 
 about the tax and you should be able to lower it until the economy or whatever improves. You should 
 be able to have armies of your own and appoint and sack lords and marshalls. 
  
  In addition, conquering any castle is possible and easy only if you have a 100 people. 
  
  
 You should be able to build new castles and new villages where you think are stratigically important 
 places. You should be able to control the economy more and make sure you villages are improving 
 and getting richer so they can pay more. If there are bandits around you should be able to exterminate 
 them all rather than them always reappearing (they could reappear slowly after a period of time) . 
 
  
  You could have more servants picking up the remains of the battle so you get more weapons easily. 
 The more servants you have the more weapons you get. You should be able to arm your armies with 
 the weapons of your choice and if you win a battle your could use your weapons to arm those armies, 
 instead of having to sell them. You should be able to invest in a large number of carts so you 
 can buy extra horses and carriages and trade faster but with greater risk of attack and slower 
 travel. Goods should really rarely run out especially if a place produces them and when you sell 
 them the trader should almost always have enough money to buy it all and only reduce the price 
 at which he buys after every 10 or 20 units. The trade screen should exist showing you how much 
 you bought items for etc etc etc
  
  You should be able to build ships and your own navy and explore islands and perhaps even new continents 
 once you are happy with the situation back home. Perhaps exploring a new places and finding gold 
 mines could give you the money you need for a new war campaign. You should be able to design your 
 own coins (out of available templates perhaps) . I HAVE MANY MANY MANY MANY IDEAS FOR IMPROVING 
 THIS GAME. I wish someone hired me seriously I could contribute immensly lol.
  
  Anyways, to the marking system now.
  
  
  
  Graphics: 8/10 - even though the graphics are 
 not as good as in many other games, I cannot say they are bad. They are pretty good in actual fact 
 even at the direct x 7 option because the directx9 option did not work for me because everything 
 went red. I was amased that they could fit so much in 156mgb, I was truly expecting a piece 'beep'.
 
  
  Controls: 9/10 nice controls with a few improvements.
  
  Immersiveness: 9/10 - I was surprised how immersive the game is seeing as there is no spoken dialogue. 
 You hear voices but nobody actually speaks to you. All you see are words on the screen.
  
  
  Bugs: 8/10 - there are a few bugs but nothing major. The main problem was inability to play 
 with directx9 because everything was red including the player and the castles and grass - even 
 so I played the game for 2 days like that and liking it before I realised I could change it to 
 directx7 and that would fix the problem.
  
  Voices: 6/10 - ok, but they are only apart of the surroundings not in dialogue, hence the low mark. 
 the best part is when you go into battle and you win it and everyone shouts their warcries. YEEEEEEEEE!!!!!!
 
  
  Sounds: 8/10 - weapons cutting through flesh and arms and skulls, simply great
  
  Storyline: 8/10 - nothing new but well thought of and different characters have their own stories, 
 a very nice touch. One problemn is that there is no real storyline because it's an openended game
 
  
  Length: Cannot comment - you can play it forever which is good and bad
  
  Music: 8/10 a nice touch
  
  Difficulty: 8/10 - the game's difficulty is perfect because only 
 when you get the best armour, weapons and horses can you survive long enough to kill around 50 
 opponents and make a difference in a battle. I'm only sorry that you do not actually recover from 
 your wounds and have no medkit or something similar obviously so that you can replenish your health 
 while in battle.
  
  Gameplay: the gameplay overall which combines all these aspects means that the game deserves 8/10. 
 In some respects it deserves 9/10 but then in many 7/10 or even 6/10 but an overall feeling you 
 get from the game is fantastic. 
  
  
  
  Overall: 8 / 10
  
  
  
  My marking system is as follows:
  
  10 - Absolute Legend
  9 - Must Be Played
  8 - Excellent 
 and Worth Your Time
  7 - Worth playing if you have nothing else good to play
  6 - worh playing if you have nothing to play and are incredbly bored and have not got absolutely 
 anything else to do. (Barely playable/enjoyable) . 
  
  
  I don't give marks 1-5 since if a game starts sucking I don't finish it, so I only review the games 
 that are barely playable (6) to the absolutely amazingly incredible ones (10)
  
  I will also probably keep my reviews short as I don't like discovering too much about the gameplay. 
 I only like to give my quick opinion and get on with life. This applies unless I really am impressed 
 with a game and this game is very impressive but I could not completely put my finger on what's 
 so good - perhaps the whole atmosphere of medival fighting. My legendary games are game such as 
 the Witcher, FarCry, Mafia, GTA etc 
  
  
  
  I do apologise for the grammar and spelling mistakes, I really cannot be bothered to go through 
 it all correcting it. If I got paid I'd be a perfectionist but I don't get paid for this stuff. 
 I basically do it for myself so I can remember what good games I have played.
  
  
  Best Wishes to everyone
  
  Zak 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jpnelson82
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 14, 2008 3:41 am PT
Review:  Mount and Blade has some good parts and bad. I believe the first game to attempt this was BF:1862, 
 and those horses were just tanks shaped like horses so this is a big improvement on that. The game 
 has a Don Quixote quality to it, a knight ridding around doing good deeds or bad deeds. A "knight" 
 can also sign on with one of the kingdoms and fight their wars which scrawl across the screen on 
 a ticker like the newscrawl on CNN. To say this game lacks a "story" isn't entirely accurate, certainly 
 you can ride around alone or build up your own army and fight bandits if you desire, or sign on 
 with one of the kingdoms, whichever you please. There isn't much to "do" in the game though after 
 a while. In the next client version I suggest a better "sight," when riding or fighting hitting 
 the target is a trial and error thing. I also suggest more to do. I might suggest a religious war, 
 ships. BTW, the code is open source so there are many mods out which may address the issues raised 
 here and elsewhere so... Give it a try 
::::::

::::::
UserName: randhill932
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 13, 2008 9:11 pm PT
Review:  After reading the reviews of game spot about this game, I was so disappointed. How can a review 
 writes that bad about a great RPG game of the year?
  
  The Critic wrote that there's a lack of RPG structure. Yes, this game isn't from start to end directly 
 but isn't that the reason Game spot give a bad point to some of the RPG?
  
  And as yo can see, there are very many personal skills that you can develop from prisoner management 
 skills to the skill of thrust, skill of power draw .. etc... These things critic never mentioned 
 about.
  
  And you say that the de-ja-vu thing about the resident? Well, can you find a game that have over 
 500 of NPC villagers and have it's own unique design for each of them? Even Fable - A very famous 
 game has the same shape of villagers. 
  
  People, don't believe in Game Spot score, believe in us! The player of this game and we say: This 
 is the best RPG game of the year! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Catalys
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 13, 2008 1:35 pm PT
Review:  Very unhappy with the critic score. The fighting in this game is unparalleled - maybe the critic 
 dies too often to get to the point where the game excels - being outnumbered but winning through 
 due to superior tactics and fighting ability. Yes, the game isn't your normal RPG fare, but it 
 stands out as a game that will suck you in for far longer than the standard 20 hour dungeon crawler.
 
  
  The reviewer comes off as far too biased. He says: "If all you had to do was fight, Mount & Blade 
 might have been a winner." Well, all you have to do is recruit men and fight. The money comes by 
 itself. Don't like the quests? Don't do them. Wow, was that too open-ended for you?
  
  He says there's a lack of RPG structure. Oh, sorry, no, the game isn't a direct path from start 
 to finish. Hey, isn't the direct path the reason why this site gave Dark Messiah of Might and Magic 
 a low score?
  
  To sum it all up, the reviewer goes on: Removing any sort of story hook from Mount & Blade makes 
 it only appropriate for the hardcore role-playing gamer who plays RPGs just to explore a fantasy 
 land, not to accomplish anything or become an epic-level druid or whatever. 
  
  Oh, gosh, the point isn't to get an epic-level druid? There's no purple armor?! Great, we've got 
 a WoW fanboi reviewing a game that isn't "autotarget - check level - you win." 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Stalker01
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 13, 2008 12:52 pm PT
Review:  This game is unique, other series like Elder Scrolls and Gothic can learn a lot from this.
  
  To begin with, it got one of the best combat systems ever. Its very innovative, action-packed 
 and has some of the best controls ever. Unlike other RPG's this is very realistic, there are no 
 potions, no spells or anything like that.
  
  Your character is highly customizable. remember the character creation in Oblivion? Well, this 
 is a lot better, since absolutely EVERYTHING can be changed. Its the same with skills, you have 
 so many options.
  
  The game itself is very realistic and takes place in a medieval setting, everything from graphics 
 and sound to dialog makes you feel like your actually in the game.
  
  A lot of people complain about the graphics, but I wont, because gameplay is in my opinion a lot 
 more important. And the graphics isn't nearly as bad as everyone says, they actually decent.
  
  Of course the game has some problems, it doesn't really have a story and it has a few bugs 
 here and there, but these will most likely be patched later.
  
  I would recommend this to anyone, except maybe idiots who demand Crysis graphics... (Crysis isn't 
 a good game BTW) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wainamoin3n
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 13, 2008 2:40 am PT
Review:  Just try the game and really give it a chance. It'll grow on you almost instantly. There's really 
 no other game just like it and none of the flaws ultimately destroy this beautiful's Action/RPG's 
 long lasting flavour and immense fun factor.
  It does sport some excellent TRUE RPG elements, much more than most modern RPGs. Party members 
 don't always like each other - also they come to love or hate your actions, which sooner or later 
 shows in your fellow's hasty departure.
  You just can't become strong in this game by supporting everybody or being hypocrit, you have to 
 actually carve a moral skeleton for your character and guide yourself after it in order to achieve 
 success.
  The fighting system absolutely eclipses any action game or RPG to date and the map travel - King's 
 Bounty style - and its implications are an absolutely brilliant design decision. The scarce but 
 effective minimalist strategic touches (giving orders to your men by category are a welcome addition 
 and leave a lot of room for extensions.
  All in all, you'll spend dozens of hours enjoying yourself with this game, clearly a labour of 
 love as opposed to gain-oriented contemporary titles.
  
  Absolutely a MUST HAVE!
  
  Gamespot just sucks! Shallow, overly technical and biased reviews and reviewers that really can't 
 read between the lines. Shame on you! The game doesn't deserve less than 8 because it does have 
 the "beta" feeling and lacks a proper storyline and a fun multiplayer mode, still, it brings on 
 the table much more than many recent titles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheRealFenril
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 11, 2008 9:24 am PT
Review:  First of all this game is unique, second of all the games that could serve as examples for comparisons 
 have nothing to do with the Oblivions, the Gothics, the two worlds or what have you.
  
  The freeform structure of travel, trade, recruiting, taking missions etc ressembles old classics 
 like elite, wing commander privateer or Pirates Gold. The point here is the core of the game is 
 the combat, the soul of the game is the combat, and even if these other aspects were not well implemented, 
 which I think they are, the game certainly would deserve a stellar review just for the combat aspect.
 
  
  The core of this game is combat, be it on foot, with a bow, a melee weapon or on horseback or every 
 one of them according to your preferences, even if the game had no realtime tactics aspects (which 
 it does) and a deep strategy aspect ( which indeed it does) it would simply blow out of the water 
 ANY non magical combat system in any 3d single player rpg ever, I mention this because obviously 
 the idiotic reviews and general negative critics came from people thinking Mount and Blade is supposed 
 to be some kind of combat intensive Oblivion. Its not.
  
  It makes me wonder if this negative heavy handed review is intent at turning off people so they 
 dont get the chance to wonder how a micro independant game studio can make a game which core aspect 
 blows out of the water every major studio's attempt in terms of gameplay.
  
  If you dont believe me, give it a go, serious go.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bogusss
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 9, 2008 11:03 pm PT
Review:  I think that this site- Gamespot - is loosing it's objective reviewing capabilities by the minute.
 
  
  Yet another great game being trashed by some reviewer that played THE BETA LIKE AN YEAR OR 2 AGO.
 
  
  FFS please give some credit where valor it's being shown. 
  
  YEAH this is a game about COMBAT. The COMBAT part it's almost perfect, be it mounted, ranged, or 
 on foot.
  COmbat is like 60% of the game. You have few commands for your ever growing army, but they hit 
 the spot right in the center. The army levels up, you level up , your companions level up and gain 
 useful abilities. AND YOU SAY WEAK RPG ELEMENTS??!?!?!?!?!
  
  If this game was like any other rpg.... how the hell could you beat an army 10 times bigger than 
 yours with the same troop quality, without any f-ing fireball, nuclear vision, thermic buggers 
 or smth?!?!
  I'll tell you how: Through sheer skill, planning and tactics!
  
  I MEAN THIS IS A GREAT GAME, THAT ACTUALLY REQUIRES FROM THE PLAYER SOME THINKING , not just item 
 hoarding and fireball spamming.
  
  
  How low the gaming sites can still go?! I mean, what do you expect, Gamespot, to be paid hundreds 
 of thousands $$$$$ to just give a fair review???
  
  Wait, i forgot that on this site.... those who do write in that manner are fired like dogs (kane 
 and lynch someone?!) .
  
  
  Bottom line, people, this is a game that offers some of the most addictive and fun sword and axe, 
 bow and crossbow, lance and pike carnage on the market.
  
  Buy it, give it a few hours to show you the way of the axe, and if you don't like it, i'll f-ing 
 refund you, you cheep cheep bastards :D!!
  
  What other single playing rpg keeps you playing for 60 hours and not even once lets boredom install?!?! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: einthedog
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 9, 2008 4:52 am PT
Review:  Woaah, just woah!
  
  I stunned by the game spot score 6.0. There is something really wrong with the gaming industry 
 today. Mount and Blade is an amazing innovative game, full of great ideas. First time played I 
 was like "It's 22:00 lets get a quick peek" and i found myself at 7:00 still playing... It's an 
 instant classic, deserves a place among the great ones.
  
  good points:
  realistic weapons and damage
  horses!!!! and fighting on horseback
  open ended storyline
 
  character development
  army management
  politics
  other NPC-s
  
  bad points:
  open ended storyline
  
  Buy this game! There's place for improvement definitely, but this game 
 delivers its promises.
  _____ ________ _______ ______ ____________ ________ ________
  _______ ___ ______ _______ __________ ____ ____ _____ ________
  ______ _ ______ ______ _____ 
 ________ _______ __ ______ _______ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oksbad
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 7, 2008 7:10 am PT
Review:  I usually don't write reviews, but the unfair treatment this game has received. I shall address 
 some points commonly brought up.
  
  "The game has uninteresting generic quests and has no story arc"
  
  "What quests are on hand 
 are generally boring. A town elder may ask you to train a few residents so that they can better 
 fight off bandits, or run across the land in search of a certain amount of wheat or butter."
  
  Ok, if you need a story to enjoy a game, stay away. However as someone who doesn't feel strongly 
 either way I can state that this in no hampered my enjoyment of the game. And do you guys know 
 another game with generic/repetitive missions? The critically acclaimed Sid Meier's Pirates!, which 
 Gamespot gave a 9.2.
  
  "There isn't any guidance provided as to which place you should visit first, so you're left cruising 
 around on a piebald nag with no particular place to go"
  
  Well I don't know, maybe the TRAINING FIELD that you start next to? Perhaps visit the nearby towns/castles 
 and ask the lord for help? Seriously, unless you have NEVER player a video game before this won't 
 be a problem for you.
  
  "Every lord and king has a listing in an encyclopedia that you can bring up on demand. But these 
 entries aren't entirely thorough, giving you only a brief rundown of the major players in the land. 
 The backdrop is always busy with various wars, villages being looted, and castles being besieged, 
 although you feel more like a hapless spectator than a wannabe hero with anything at stake during 
 all of this conflict. You generally don't receive a lot of solid answers."
  
  The reviewer has a point with the answers part, but is utterly wrong on the being hapless part. 
 At the beginning the is obviously true, for good reason, you are an adventurer, not a freakin' 
 general. As you build up your army however, you can change the political landscape quicker than 
 all the background events ever could.
  
  "Orders on the fly are just about nonexistent, which leaves you to simply tell your troops to charge 
 into the fray and help out by cracking a few skulls yourself."
  
  Do this against a superior army and (even if you are skilled enough to preserve yourself) your 
 army will be cut down. Seriously, if you can't order your archers to hold position on top of hills 
 or on one side of a river, lead your cavalry to flank, order your infantry to scatter in the presence 
 of archers or bunch up in the presence of cavalry, all of which can be done very smoothly, it isn't 
 the game that's lacking.
  
  Finally I would like to speak about what bothers me most. The fact that the reviewers didn't even 
 wait for the full version to some out. That's right, the Gamespot review was written for the prereleased 
 version, so many of the problems they mentions could well be fixed...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: meshymack
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 6, 2008 10:02 pm PT
Review:  This game lets you roam around the map, visiting towns, castles, letting you trade, completing 
 quests, taking part in tournaments. Fight when you want, how you want it. Build your repute how 
 you want it.
  
  Basically, you could do almost anything you want. You could assemble your own armies to prepare 
 your own war, like besieging towns and castles or even small settlements. There is no fixed rules 
 to follow nor storyline to go with. 
  
  You may become a powerful king or conquerer, or become a trader, or leading rebels to replace Kings. 
 You could be a mecenary captain or you could be a vassal to a King or Khan.
  
  I strongly felt that I would play this game over is because in this game, I am free to create my 
 own character and create my own objectives. There is nothing to tie me down! 
  
  The Real-Time Comnat System is really good and impressive. Anyone would love the combat in this 
 game. 
  
  The movement of the mouse plays an important part of how you want to attack your enermy. In terms 
 of moving your mouse either left, right, up, or down, will let your character swing in that direction. 
 The AI is good enough to detect which direction you will be attacking from & block your attack 
 accordingly, but it depends on the difficulty you have set though. 
  
  The horse riding combat is the best part of the game! It includes horse archery! The movement of 
 you on the horse, swinging and thrusting your swords/polearms into armies are great fun! Or riding 
 your horse while you try to aim & shoot with your bow and arrows are excellent! Very Good Innovation 
 here! 
  
  However, the seiging part will be a little bit of a diaster. Meaning that only one ladder is available 
 where all your armies will only have to go up that one ladder! Just imagine how it will end up...
 
  
  The game might bored some gamers as this game does not have an end to it. No storyline to end this 
 game at all. Gamers who have the passion of building up your own stories and doing it your own 
 way, will prefer to play this game longer than expected.
  
  The graphics is not as great but it is good enough for moderate PCs to run this game. Sound is 
 pleasant to the ears as well. 
  
  Ambitious is the word to describe this game. Good innovation in combat system. Maybe it should 
 consider to imput a storyline to actually have an ending to the game, which i felt some gamers 
 would actually prefer. 
  
  Overall, it is still an enjoyable game. Try out the combat system. You will love it.
  
  
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarthNader26
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 6, 2008 8:40 pm PT
Review:  If you are used to standard, highly structured RPGs like Oblivion or Final Fantasy, Mount and Blade 
 will be a bit of a culture shock. It is totally open ended. I mean TOTALLY. The lack of story or 
 direction may seem like a bad thing, but there is so much in this game that you easily forget that 
 you are just wandering around. It's my guilty pleasure because I have all these high-budget RPGs 
 lying, gathering dust in the corner. 
  
  There is something that is very addictive about Mount and Blade that I just can't nail down. It 
 could be the massive battles. Being in the middle of 150+ dudes screaming and hacking at each other 
 regularly gets my adrenaline pumping, and the horseback combat in Mount and Blade is the best you'll 
 find anywhere. The entire gambit of medieval weaponry is available. Aside from your standard swords 
 and bows you have access to interesting little toys like pikes and throwing axes which can be quite 
 fun to use once you get the hang of them.
  
  In a nutshell, don't come into it expecting an epic story or cutting-edge graphics. Look at it 
 more like an open canvas best utilized for transmitting your imagination into the game. Want to 
 form a band like Robin Hood and his merry men? Get some peasants together and lurk the woods, raiding 
 caravans. Want to be the supreme overlord of the entire country? Best get conquering. Tired of 
 always fighting and looking for a more peaceful approach to the game? A respectable, in-game economy 
 is available to you. Jump on the nearest caravan and get trading. 
  
  My advice for enjoying Mount and Blade? Don't rely on this game to do things for you. If you set 
 out do do them yourself, the game will happily oblige. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: antonclarke
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 5, 2008 10:46 pm PT
Review:  There are loads of reviews, more than anyone is actually going to read, so I'm just going to put 
 in my 2c.
  
  This game is a complete breath of fresh air and has the best gameplay of any game I have played 
 in years. I wasn't sure that i wanted to buy and play it originally as I have a pretty powerful 
 machine and it seemed a waste to have something so 'light' run on it. Yes, I've been a bit of a 
 graphics whore.... But this game has completely obliterated that notion. Since starting with it, 
 I haven't looked at Crysis, Guild Wars, GTA, FSX, etc. 
  
  Sometimes I am amazed just how long this game can keep me playing. I think it has a lot to do with 
 the way it handles character progression - both yours and your parties. There is a real feeling 
 of climbing the ladder, at a very measured pace, and the feeling of a dynamic world which will 
 continue to throw you challenges. Balance is excellent and details in the gameplay make it a true 
 gem.
  
  Do yourself a favour and give it a whirl. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trafalet
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 5, 2008 1:42 am PT
Review:  I won't give this game a 10 simply because is not the perfect game I always wanted, but is innovative 
 enough to suck me in. I really don't care about the nonexistent "official storyline", is a sandbox 
 game, for God sake! You can make your own story, you can betray your king and then attack him, 
 together with his lords. There are, indeed, a limited number of quests but the graphics are quite 
 pretty and definitely NOT ugly. Gamespot totally ignored the mounted combat which is the main addition 
 in the RPG genre. The whole review article reflects only the issues the game has and doesn't make 
 a good impression. The score they gave is far below the real value of Mount&Blade. Where is that 
 rate system (graphics, sound, tilt, gameplay, storyline) that made us understand the game's score? 
 So here it goes:
  
  Graphics: 7.5/10
  Sound: 8/10
  Gameplay: 9/10
  Feeling: 9.5/10
  Tilt: 9/10
  
  Give it a chance! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: claudiopedroso
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 4, 2008 8:50 pm PT
Review:  I've been a RPG gamer ever since my 12 y/o. From pen-and-paper (D&D, Vampire: The Mascarade, GURPS) 
 to VGs and MMOs (NWN, Fallout, Snes classics, FF and so on...) i've played a lot of games, and 
 Mount & Blade is one of the best.
  It's the first open-ended RPG with no fantastical creatures (elves, orcs, giant spiders, etc) i've 
 seen. The game have a great pace, character evolution is just right, you feel your power growing 
 as you become a respected lord and enemies start fleeing from your troops.
  Character customization is incredible, as giving orders to your troops during the battle. The game 
 have so many details that I can't believe EA or Ubisoft haven't hired it's producers.
  Also, there's a huge modding community!
  On the other side, graphics are a bit dated and there's 
 some minor bugs (as the ghost walls in the arena) that frustrate sometimes.
  In the end, the game sucks you in and you just want to keep playing.
  
  PS: GS, you should 
 REALLY play the game before the review is done!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jedifett
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 4, 2008 3:13 pm PT
Review:  This game is wonderful, and I'm deliciously addicted.
  
  Enter the world as a lone hero, fighting off bandits and looting their remains.
  Gather a small 
 following of raw recruits from local villages, and fight alongside them as you grow to a small 
 mercenary band.
  Recruit unique hero units and customize their weapons, armor, and skills. Buy them a horse if you 
 like, or grant them one that you took in battle.
  Enter the employ of one of the local kingdoms as a minor mercenary commander, or play them against 
 each other and work for all sides.
  Win enough renown from quests and battles, and gain enough favor with a kingdom, and the King may 
 make you a vassal lord with your own town and holdings.
  Fight for your king, win more towns and castles, improve them, train increasingly stronger types 
 of soldiers, and become a powerful Lord.
  
  Etc. It's wonderful, engrossing, freeform, and all around fun.
  
  The combat, as has been mentioned 
 elsewhere, is great fun, and really gets you involved. There's nothing like spotting one of your 
 prized units, a Nordic Huscarl perhaps, engaged in bitter battle with an enemy soldier amidst the 
 chaos of the battlefield, and spurring to his aid, riding down the foe with your lance. The sweet 
 "shunk" sound of pierced flesh lets you know the blow struck home as you gallop past, circling 
 around a mass of combatants to go ride down the archers beyond...
  
  Lastly, I'll address a few of the more likely complaints:
  
  Graphics. Dated, yes. Ugly, no. 
 Just a few years ago, I would have been properly happy. There's actually a good amount of texture 
 detail to the characters, and plenty of facial variety and tons of different soldier types to keep 
 it interesting. Environments on the battle map are actually rather pleasant, with decent sunsets 
 and such.
  
  Repetitive dialogue. There are two sides to this. At first, you'll realize that townspeople aren't 
 worth talking to, and different lords offer you the same quests, etc. It's a fairly big world, 
 they obviously concentrated on things other than dialogue...... right?
  Well, eventually you'll realize that they just ignored the dialogue of simple townsfolk and generic 
 NPCs. As you wander with your unique hero companions at your side, suddenly a dialogue screen will 
 pop up, and one of them will launch into a discussion of "Ah, we're nearing my old home in Haen, 
 where I grew up sleeping in the streets and..." (usually slightly more interesting than my random 
 sampling) And you'll notice that, by golly, you ARE near Haen (and I suspect that most of these 
 discussion, though mostly just flavor text, include subtle trading tips about what supplies various 
 areas produce, but I'm not sure about this...) These are great little interludes as you wander 
 the world.
  
  And then suddenly another of your companions starts talking. About how ANOTHER of your companions 
 is really getting on his nerves, or is a dirty barbarian, or some other offense. Either tell him 
 to shut up and get back in line, or let him know that he has your support, and the other guy really 
 IS a jerk and should shut up. So the dynamics of who you bring along on your adventures will start 
 to affect the morale of others in your party if you start mixing thieves and former guardsmen, 
 for instance. This is awesome.
  
  Anyway, the game is great, combat is brilliant, and the world is very immersive. I love coming 
 across a battle or siege in progress, jumping in to help one side or the other, sneaking behind 
 enemy lines to loot a town and steal cattle or supplies, or journey deep into foreign lands in 
 order to recruit new and interesting types of soldiers or mercenaries.
  
  Get this game. Play it. Love it.
  
  Chaaaaarge!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: James192301
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 4, 2008 8:42 am PT
Review:  They should have really considered the fact that this started as an independent game and was never 
 picked up by a major cash distributing company when they gave it a review. 6 out of 10 is garbage. 
 If this had been picked up by a major production then you would've had a brilliant game. The combat 
 is great. The graphics are great aside from facial skins. Something that you should be able to 
 overlook. What this game needed was better quests, maybe gathering professions, less instancing 
 within towns cities, online co op (possibly mmo?) , and of course better facial skins. I could go 
 on and on with ideas but for an independent game this was a great effort and a great start if someone 
 major wants to pick up and make it more. Storylines and cut scenes are a waste of talent. Save 
 them for the movies. When 50% of the effort into making a game goes into a story and negativly 
 affects the actual game and gameplay... that's unacceptable. Make it known. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sting0109
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 4, 2008 2:00 am PT
Review:  This is the most original RPG on a computer system to date.
  
  It's also got a much better and more balanced levelling system and levelled enemies than a certain 
 other RPG game that incidentally scored much higher on the official reviews as did World of Warcraft, 
 which, at the end of the day is just as pointless. And, like M & B, the object is simply to walk 
 around the world and improve your character. No engaging storyline to get involved in here either, 
 so come on Game Spot, what's the deal??!!
  
  Okay, so there are some structure issues, but let it be known that there is a whole wealth of user 
 content availalbe to download to correct this issue. Just check the forums on Teleworlds site and 
 you'll see. You have everything from A Song of Ice and Fire Mod to great new weapons, armour and 
 surcoats etc. so that corrects this issue.
  
  As a final note, I have to say I find it appalling to find a big games company like Gamespot giving 
 a home programmed title with some genuine innovation behind it such a mediocre review. What's the 
 matter Gamespot, not getting enough of the big bucks from TeleWorlds to give them honest reviews?? 
 Oh yes! I remember Kane & Lynch!
  
  Shameful : ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dr666evil
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 3, 2008 1:09 pm PT
Review:  Every once in a while comes a game which ushers in a whole new era in gaming. Mount and blade is 
 that game. You either embrace it or die a fool (Gamespot) .
  I am not usually this melodramatic but its amazing how a game which is so different and unique 
 in its approach gets a thumbs down from a reputed gaming site. Total let down!!! And to think I 
 laid off playing this game for 3 whole months after reading their review.
  There is no other game which is so open ended in its approach that you actually live in the world. 
 Imagine a simple quest like collecting taxes from a village for a lord. You go to the said village, 
 collect the money and you dont pay the lord back. Use the money , buy an army, weapons.. etc and 
 then align yourself with another faction opposing the lord. Can it get any more real than that???
 
  I dont wanna say thing about the combat, it speaks for itself (Gamespot got that right atleast) . 
 And to think some small time developers came up with the concept. Imagine playing oblivion with 
 the same combat mechanics and open ended gameplay. One can only sigh!
  Enough has been said about the lack of story line and blah blah blah! Stop bashing the game up 
 and play it for a change. Calradia might just be your home. Give credit where credits due. Thanks. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vispyr
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 3, 2008 8:04 am PT
Review:  Mount and Blade could be perfect. All it's missing is a hair of structure and increased risk to 
 reward bonuses. In its current form, the game will still seduce you for hours. The combat is completly 
 unique and wonderful, and the game plays out fantastically.
  
  The game is open ended as they come, so if that is your thing, Mount and blade is great.
  
 
  The reason I wont give it higher than a 9.0 is because the extreme open endedness will leave somthing 
 to be craved for people who like a more linear storyline, or a more structured game.
  
  The 6.0 that gamespot gave this game makes me wonder if they actually played this game. Granted, 
 the graphics are dated, however solid gameplay trumps visuals every day of the week, and perspective 
 buyers should not let the graphics or the horridly misleading gamespot rating keep them from enjoying 
 this one of a kind game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StojkeUE
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 2, 2008 7:12 pm PT
Review:  M&B is really something speciall. Game is addictive and very fun. Surely one of the best RPG-s 
 i played in a while.
  
  Combat system is great. Everything looks so real and if you put difficulty to max it is pretty 
 challenging. One good hit can kill you, just like in real life. That is the fackt that i like the 
 most. No health potions and that kind of ***** no mana, just your skill and a bit of luck :)
  
  Graficks is poor... That is the fact, but personaly to me that is not a big minus at all. You 
 can always download Graphical Enchantment packs if you want everything to be shiny and beautifull...
 
  
  Quest line. I sow that most of the ppl wrote about missing RPG elements. I can only say lol. My 
 opinion is that you are a poor RPG gamer if you need quest lines that tell youdo that, go there, 
 go there again, kill him, come to me for a reward ". This game is pretty open minded and you can 
 do what YOU want. Want to be a crazy nord axeman, a Lord in the service of the king, maybe to create 
 your own kingdom, or you might want a party of heroes how pillage and plunder the land ? Here you 
 can do that.
  Only thing you need is a little imagination and you have a pretty good RPG story. If you want a 
 strickt quest line the this game is not for you.
  
  Financial elements are bad. Trading is simple and runing your own castlte and village is not chalenging 
 at all. That are the only serious downsides for me. But hey many games needed several expansions 
 to sort all things up.
  
  Regarding equipement. It is not the same one in the every castle. If you stick arround and reach 
 lvl 20-30 you will see some cool and great stuff. Champion horses and masterwork weapons. They 
 are pretty expensive but when you reach that lvl money is not the problem.
  
  Now Gamespot.... are you ok ? This grade is too low. This game is inovative in so many ways that 
 it deserved at least 8. Whit the budget game developers had this game is a exceptional. I can't 
 imagine what they could do if they would have a budget if GTA IV, or WOW.
  
  All in all i think that this game deserves to be bought. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: argotto
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 2, 2008 6:07 pm PT
Review:  There are not a whole lot of melee oriented games on the market for PC today, but this is one of 
 the few that shine through all of the others.
  
  The main attraction of this game is the fact that it is a 3rd person combat, kind of medeival game 
 that incorporates the most realistic combat I have seen in any game. (also 1st person if desired) 
 
  
  You can gather an army of troops and even a couple 'hero' characters in the game to fight along 
 side you. A player creates his own story by choosing which faction to ally with and do tasks for 
 (which includes attacking with allied armies when assaulting castles) or one can choose no side 
 and be more of a mercenary group of troops doing what you please.
  
  There may be no actual storyline but in my book, that is fine as long as the gameplay is good. 
 Luckily the gameplay is far better than expected and it is done so well. One of the aspects of 
 this game that makes it so enjoyable, atleast to me, is the realistic feeling. There is no magic, 
 no spiritual forces to use in this game; it is just pure brute force with armies pitted against 
 eachother. 
  
  The graphics are decent and the battlefield layouts are fairly decent. I love the sounds and they 
 really give you a feel of what it was really like on the battlefield back then. The music isn't 
 half bad either. There isn't a huge variety of music but enough to keep a person satisfied as you 
 travel the countryside.
  
  I can only imagine what this game will be like in a couple of months when modders start to finish 
 projects that have already been in the works before the official version of the game came out. 
 
  
  Perfect 10 from for the sole reason of a unique and refreshing gamestyle that has yet to stop entertaining 
 me. All I have to say to Gamespot is get your act together. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: essereetico
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 2, 2008 5:57 am PT
Review:  Gamespot rating is just right : The combat is amazing and can you give lot of fun, but after awhile 
 will not be so amazing especially because you will dop the same thing over and over.
  
  I mean in all the game you have something like 20 quests in TOTAL, and they also are resolved in 
 a 1 way manner, so after awhile you will start to do the same thing over and over... like the Nerovus 
 man quest, you find the man and you are already ready with your sword to kill him since you already 
 know what he will answer to you and what he will do... and after awhile the whole game will be like 
 this.
  
  And since we don't have a "story-mode" (which is a good thing in my point of view) we don't have 
 any difficult goal to reach : after you get an amount of renown the king of a faction names you 
 vassal and you can easily do tons of money with your villages, and the game is done.
  
  And about the villages you own, you can't do anything there all people will answer in all the world 
 the same things, the management of your villages is almost zero you can just put money to build 
 a school and some other buildings to give you a bonus... but then you don't have to care if your 
 village is being razed 1 hundred of times while you are out adventuring, you will still find your 
 money there and your building.
  
  The combat system is amazing, the best i saw in all the games !!! 
  But for the other things... are 
 below than aeverage. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elev288
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 2, 2008 5:00 am PT
Review:  I picked up mount and blade at the end of the beta and really enjoyed it instanty. Since then a 
 lot of imporements have been made. Ive decided to split up the review in a few different areas. 
 
  
  Graphics
  
  The graphics in this game is not brilliant, at least not initially. Something that is not strange 
 concidering the budget this game have had. The graphics do work though, and have never been something 
 that have made made gaming experience worse. A week after release mods that improve the grahpics 
 drasticly have been released and more will come. 
  
  Sound and voice
  
  The music fits well into the theme and the battle sounds are competent enought, dont expect to 
 be blown away by it though. No spoken diaog either.
  
  Gameplay
  
  The world is large and intresting enought for you to put in a lot of hours. You can play as a general, 
 mercenary, merchant, bandit etc. Its your story. The different factions makes the replayvalue very 
 high as well. Some of the missions you recive are a bit on the boring side though and expect to 
 do the same task over and over again. It is addictive though, and you will ignore such minor flaws. 
 Somehow it never gets old to capture enemy towns or ransom enemy lords. 
  
  Combat
  
  This is where Mount & Blade shines. Compared to most melee combat made in rpgs this is heaven. 
 AND for the first time in history somone have managed to get horsecombat right as well. THE combat 
 is addictive, fun, intelligent and it is revolutionary. I have a feeling game designers all over 
 the world will take a look at this for many years to come. To be honest the battles alone are probably 
 worth the price of this game. Charging into infantry with fourty of your own knights around you 
 is extremly fun and satisfying. 
  
  All together
  
  Mount and blade is a good game but not without flaws, flaws that can be ignored however. I can 
 not help thinking however that this game could be even better than it is, luckily it probaby will. 
 The modding community is extremly creative and active and we have seen improvements in the game 
 already, large ones. The released product is worth a 8,5 because its a very, very good and addictive 
 game, unpolished and with flaws however. I am certain that these flaws will be seen to however 
 either by Taleworlds or the community, and when they are the game will go from very, very good 
 to being a classic. Mount & Blade will most likey change quite a few things in gamedevelopment, 
 espcially the combat. When I play high budget games taking inspiration from Mount & Blade combatsystem 
 in the future, I will be forever greatful. 
  
  One last thing... buy it... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fatherazhara
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 2, 2008 4:57 am PT
Review:  This game is a must play for rpg fans, open ended sandbox game, combat mechanic is the best so 
 far. Like "elite" on a horse the best open ended RPG game ever fantastic. the trading and advancement 
 are all very well balanced. combat is amazing and so much better than other RPG on the hardest 
 setting its harder than most fighting games. the factions all carrying out there own wars and you 
 can either get invovled or pick up th pieces. The lack of storyline is actually a plus as you do 
 what you want and the lack of finances adds to the realism. the system for controlling your party 
 is very good both in game and overall. there are looters and bandits everywhere making the world 
 feel alive and very dangerous. gamespot doesn't have a clue about good games if they rate this 
 a 6.0. so fun and addictive must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1122wwqq
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 1, 2008 10:53 pm PT
Review:  Mount & Blade is VERY VERY VERY FUN. It is refreshing to see a game on the market that makes me 
 both take interest in RPG and to be delighted by combat. I believe gamespot should give another 
 look if this game is soon improved upon. Not encouraging the end user to discover the great game 
 the devs have asssembled here is a shame. It currently imo deserves an 8 by gamespot and no lower 
 than a 7. I really do understand that it can't be ranked in the 8.5 range because it is not professionally 
 polished and has a significant lack of actual CONTENT and doesn't buy ADSPACE blah blah blah ... It 
 DOES though deliver fun action / ample rpg elements / & a great MAP UI all in one package with 
 solid result.
  
  but... It could be much better in almost all cosmetic areas...
  
  FIRST: Make INVENTORY more friendly!
  
  NEXT: Update the graphics, & add a main storyline and 
 you have the 9 score game. woot
  
  THEN: make an expansion adding fantasy and monsters etc
  for a 9.5
  
  FOR PERFECTION: Add 
 castle building ( ala stronghold ) and randomized loot ( ala diablo ) and 10 10 10 10
  
  please do this now!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimmiedeaner
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 1, 2008 4:31 am PT
Review:  Gamespot's low score for this game just shows how out of touch their reviewers are with the people 
 who actually play the games they review. Gamespot gives it a six, the people who have played it 
 give it a nine! I have been disappointed with Gamespot's reviewers nearly every time I have played 
 a game they reviewed in the past year or two. I used to trust their reviews, but now it seems all 
 of their emphasis is on graphics. Gameplay and creativity from small developers just don't score 
 with them. Only the big name titles with up to date graphics stand a chance. I think the reviews 
 on this game demonstrate how the gaming community is really in need of good gameplay and is fed 
 up with games with great graphics but lacking substance. Mount a blade is a great game! Sure, the 
 graphics are a little dated as Gamespot's reviewers noted heavily in their review. However, THE 
 GAME IS FUN! The game is legitimately fun to play. Its not just pretty to look at (crysis) with 
 gameplay thats been done a thousand times, and it doesn't just have cool tools (spore) but absolutely 
 terrible gameplay. This is a game made for people who like to play games instead of people who 
 like to oggle at graphics and the more superficial things. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Akr67
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 1, 2008 1:49 am PT
Review:  It makes me sad to see games like Crysis and GTAIV getting 9.5 & 10.0 simply because they look 
 pretty while their gameplay is about average at best. Mount&Blade is simply a rare gem with huge 
 potential in this cesspool of crap that is the video game industry (or rather what is has become) . 
 
  
  The combat is amazing; unbelievably fun to swing around large weapons or ride around on a horse 
 while shooting arrows or killing with your lance (especially the jousts in tournaments) . The feel 
 of it all is great and the graphics are just right given how low your fps can drop in those large 
 battles. 
  
  On the downside however, some features like diplomacy, questing and fief/castle management are 
 very basic and shallow at times. But overall, Mount&Blade is a good game, surprisingly addictive 
 and just plain fun to play.
  
  Keep going tale-worlds, looking forward to the xpac/sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ociu
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 30, 2008 9:14 pm PT
Review:  GameSpot, Are you blind or deaf? This is one of the greatest game ever. I have never had this much 
 fun since elementary school. Very addictive! If you check my profile, it shows that i have never 
 posted any review in the past. However, your score made me so mad. I feel that i have to post a 
 review and i am glad that my first post is for this game.
  
  This game is so good that I even stopped the MMORPG I was playing...
  
  It looks like you people 
 give preferential treatment for game developer that "contributes" to you. Perhaps one of the reviewer 
 for this didn't get any "premium" from this game's developer. Fire the people who reviewed this 
 game! Or at least give them a severe pay cut.
  
  You should at least withdraw the old score and have someone else re-review this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anthrax88
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 30, 2008 9:05 pm PT
Review:  Once again i see the gamespot review totally fail. So many times smaller games get bashed by the 
 people on gamespot. While almost only the larger companies games get great reviews. 
  
  Well this time it's obvious the reviewer is wrong.
  
  6 from gamespot, 9 average from the 1000+ 
 gamers reviews.
  That's a difference of 3, 3! That is pretty huge.
  
  This game is with out a doubt the best medieval game created so far. I personally fancy having 
 a horde of riders with me riding over the battlefield just crushing the enemy infantry. Crushing 
 nations, and then rebelling against my previous king. And i never get bored of the combat system 
 in this game either.
  
  And with the graphical mods that are out there, you can get pretty good graphics for the game. 
 And more mods are in the making. 
  
  Reason i don't give the game a full 10 though is.
  I would like to create a nation of my own, with me deciding the nations name. And being able to 
 have true vassals under my command. Vassals I've recruited. And also i would like a broader political 
 and social part of the game. More options in the villages and cities. 
  
  But who knows, maybe things like that will come later. In form of mods or possibly the makers will 
 put it in the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fallout69
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 30, 2008 5:36 pm PT
Review:  Everybody must try, it's really impressive... Congratulation's to Turks for this game... Fighting 
 on a horse with a bow or a sword is very enjoyable. But i warn you its really addictive i can't 
 sleep for 2 days. You can buy it online too, they say that :
  
  We are offering Mount&Blade through a try before you buy model. You can download the game and start 
 playing right away. What you download is not a demo, it is the full game. There is, however, a 
 level limit at 6. When your character reaches level 6, you can start a new game or, if you decide 
 you like the game well enough, go on and buy a license online. As soon as you buy a license you 
 will obtain a serial key which will remove the level limit. You will not need to download the game 
 again.
  
  Mount&Blade is maintained actively and we release updated versions every few months. When a new 
 version comes out, you can download it from this page. Your serial key will unlock updated versions 
 too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gemno
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 30, 2008 2:35 pm PT
Review:  Terrible review from Gamespot who obviously prefers EA advertising dollars over a balanced review 
 of a good game from a small developer. I've played hundreds (yes .. hundreds) of games. Though 
 this tells you nothing about the game it does provide some clue about my ability to assess a game. 
 Since we're all pressed for time my suggestion is simply to try Mount&Balde. It is not the most 
 beautiful game you will ever play nor the most complicated. And it's very open ended. Let's just 
 put it this way .. I bought and played Spore .. I bought and played BioShock .. I bought and played 
 Crysis .. I bought and I'm still playing Mount&Blade. It's a very enjoyable game. I REALLY like 
 the combat. Give it a try, it might or might not end up consuming your gaming energy, but if you 
 don't try it you'll definitely have missed something good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xzuzz
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 30, 2008 1:04 pm PT
Review:  For one to enjoy Mount&Blade to the fullest, one must be a true hardcore roleplayer. Anybody should 
 be able to enjoy the amazing combat engine, but unfortunately fighting is not what you will be 
 doing most when playing Mount&Blade.
  
  I believe this game could be so much more, with a bigger budget they could reach amazing heights. 
 
  
  Overall, the game lacks a main story to follow, but that's one of the things that makes it uniqe. 
 The game also has dated graphics, but a great modding community is helping to make the game look 
 more beutiful. There is an HDR mod and there's mods that add high-res textures and similar. There 
 are also a BIG variety of mods that change the gameplay and also alot of total-conversion mods. 
 The quests in M&B are repetitive, the sieges feel incomplete and also repetitive.
  
  There is so much to tell about this game. It has many flaws, but I totally love the nostalgic feeling 
 about it and it is highly addictive. If you give the game a chance, you will fall in love with 
 it within the hour.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: criminal02
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 30, 2008 7:58 am PT
Review:  ivfis ni sn 9sw9jfj 9fjis 9o 90f0- jf8su uis8s usudgh hsopso ishfp hs8aoj sjfpo j isj 9jf0ioh h 
 89g g hhy78goih 78gt89h 789g9h 78g 9y 9 ty890y 89h79 8789ft 78 79t 9y 9 y890y09y890y 80y 98y 0yu 
 0y 90y 0y 0y 90y 90 hy78io hpoj oi [pki 6u 9860 9i6g 9fy uioj [ pijuio gfy oij opju hg opkj phi 
 ui9gf t d76 ghy78 ftr7d5 uygio hy9 78f uih pu9-y 9tuj'ophg hop jio gh iopjhio uog ojhioguiphiop 
 hui goi ho uig6io gh6 3636op36 h3sfg ivfis ni sn 9sw9jfj 9fjis 9o 90f0- jf8su uis8s usudgh hsopso 
 ishfp hs8aoj sjfpo j isj 9jf0ioh h 89g g hhy78goih 78gt89h 789g9h 78g 9y 9 ty890y 89h79 8789ft 
 78 79t 9y 9 y890y09y890y 80y 98y 0yu 0y 90y 0y 0y 90y 90 hy78io hpoj oi [pki 6u 9860 9i6g 9fy uioj [ 
 pijuio gfy oij opju hg opkj phi ui9gf t d76 ghy78 ftr7d5 uygio hy9 78f uih pu9-y 9tuj'ophg hop 
 jio gh iopjhio uog ojhioguiphiop hui goi ho uig6io gh6 3636op36 h3sfg 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JimmiLee
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 30, 2008 5:08 am PT
Review:  To truly appreciate this game, one needs to truly try it and understand what it's about. While 
 the roleplaying element to date might not be as strong as the combat element, to me the combat 
 is where it's at. The game offers in depth battles of every conceivable kind, especially when one 
 takes into account the multitude of Modifications that are being made, most of them just around 
 the corner. Try modifications like "The Last Days", "The Hundred Years War", "298BC", "Crusaders 
 Mod", "Western Mod" or "897AD", most of which offer even more detailed gameplay and content than 
 the actual game, so even if you don't buy it for the game itself, buy it for the many modifications 
 . . . I've rarely played a game as addictive as this one and I've never played a game as much, 
 as I've been playing it since some of the earlier betas - a game for true gamers, made by gamers 
 . . . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chunyu19
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 30, 2008 10:22 pm PT
Review:  Players are giving this game 9.0 but I would only give it 5.0, base on the original game. I think 
 the high rating is giving to the Great MODs (developed by the Great Players) .
  
  The World in the game is large but not huge, and there is only Castles with similar style and buildings, 
 selling limited weapons and armours, hire soldiers, have a drink/sleep, Fight for experience and 
 money..... those quests you received are limited too, as simple as sending mail to as difficult 
 as capture a Castle. The chracters are ugly, not many interactive / conversation, not many background, 
 and result in NO interesting story. 
  
  Your life in the game is only FIGHT (for life) and TRADE (for money) . 
  
  For FIGHT, you may 
 lead your army to capture a Castle and become a King, but what will you do after you become a King 
 ? its seem nothing but expand your kingdom, the game was not focus on Managing a Kingdom, just 
 built facilities for it ..... set the tax rate and collecting tax from resident only. And so, what 
 is the objective to capture a Castle/town? For fame? money? or just for killing. If you can capture 
 Castle, why you cannot manage Castle? Thats why I said this game is only half (or just 25%) developed.
 
  
  For TRADE, its trading system is simple too, just buy and sell with GOOD prices, no special actions 
 from NPC or the kingdom to affect the price. What I had done in the game to earn money is to Sell 
 the prisoners, as your character growth, he/she might face more fighting, more chance to get prisoner 
 (but it has a limited number you can have) , then you must SELL them for not only money, but to 
 give space for new comers.
  
  How about private life, like "the Fable", who may have wife or husband? No. This is a very straight 
 forward game, you won't habe to spend time to deal with relationship, you won't have brother/sister, 
 wife/husband, especially a Friend. You may have followers and you may talk to them but seems no 
 objectives at all. You may simply request the followers to go away if you don't like him/her.
 
  
  
  Many players likes the figthing system in M&B, but I do think that its only similar to Elder Scroll 
 series. The sound effect is not that great at all. Most annoying is you won't know you hurt an 
 enermy until you see BLOOD on his body or hear his scream. Fighting on the Horse is "stupid" if 
 you are facing a group of enermy because you cannot attack the enermy at your back unless you turn 
 arround, but you cannot do that actually.
  
  If you play this game, you must be very interested in FIGHTING. Once you feel boring with fighting, 
 you will feel boring and give up the game.
  
  I don't know why those players GIVE this game a 10.0 rating, maybe they are staff of the game developer/publisher, 
 or have another reason to CHEAT others player to buy this game.
  
  What I recommend is to download the DEMO and play it until Level 6, if you DO interested to play 
 it, then pay money for registration code; otherwise, you may STOP and uninstall the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1aroderick1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 25, 2008 10:21 am PT
Review:  I'm sure we can find someone to hold this Gamespot reviewers hand. This is why, thankfully (or 
 not) , this Gamespot reviewer is writing reviews about games and not making them... A little imagination 
 is all it takes.
  
  I've only been playing this game for 4 or 5 months, 4 or 5 MONTHS!! No game has held my attention 
 that long since Oblivion! Some of the people playing this game have been playing it 2 or so YEARS 
 since it's inception!
  
  It's the kind of game that takes you out to dinner and a movie before making it's move at the end 
 of the night. When I first started to play the demo I thought along the same lines as the reviewer 
 but as I played on I found I couldn't stop. It's like gamer crack!
  
  Since starting the game I've done numerous quests, owned and managed a fife and a castle, defended 
 villages from bandits, created whole armies from farmers and peasants, helped form a rebellion 
 and taken over a nation (and gained several fifes, castles and towns in the process) , and more 
 recently become a trader and a merchant. You just have to use your imagination and set out to make 
 your mark.
  
  The core of this game IS its battle engine. There is no doubt about that. There is nothing like 
 the sound of 30 horses at your back as you lead a charge into battle! Fighting with melee weapons 
 will have your heart pounding and the sweat pouring.
  
  Each time a new version of this game came out it got a little better. The final version seems to 
 have addressed most issues I might have had and has again added to the game in many ways, better 
 sound effects, a slicker presentation outside of the battlefield. There are numorous mods for this 
 game and many more in the works. 
  
  Mount & Blade has a strong following of very loyal supporters (That should be your first clue!) .
 
  This game comes from a small independent, which is almost unheard of in this age so presentation 
 might not be as slick as you might get from a larger developer,
  but the GAME is there if you're BRAVE enough...
  
  -- 
  cheers,
  
  ruck-
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: magick0108
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 25, 2008 6:01 am PT
Review:  It is highly addictive even with the Native version of M&B, but it becomes even more addictive 
 and fun with lots of other mods you can download, or even develope one yourself. There's already 
 a mod you can shield bash (smite) or play with firearms. The game could be enormously expanded, 
 just like elderscrolls, but lighter graphics and fun battle system. The game itself is based on 
 middleage type backgrounds but there are mods with pirate, fantasy, Japan (with completely changed 
 scenes) and may be some modern age mod could be released. I personally don't agree with gamespot's 
 rating, because I can't see any bugs that could interfere with the gameplay and animations or texture 
 quality could be replaced by modders. So this game is highly dependant on how hard modders and 
 supporter of this game acts. I'd give 10/10 for the massive capability that this game has. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: realpetrolium
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 24, 2008 5:51 pm PT
Review:  Pay no attention to the 6.0 rating. Look at what the users are saying. This game is epic and NAILS 
 gameplay and funfactor. Ya its lacking the polish we are used to but hopefully that will come with 
 time via patches and mods. Best description would be getting to play as one of the soldiers in 
 total war Rome, with a bit of oblivion rpg elements.
  
  Play it and tough it out past the initial learning curve, and you will experience gaming bliss.
 
  
  This is the kind of game concept that I wish one of the big developers could actually execute.
 
  
  Goodness, when decent mods start rolling out for this game I might not ever play another game again.
 
  
  The AI is so good. In the total war series each soldier just goes through his motions and people 
 fall down randomly. Battles in this game are fully functional, with each sword blow being recorded 
 and every soldier actually fighting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bitobah
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 24, 2008 4:36 pm PT
Review:  The Gamespot review has some accurate points, but the score seems inordinately low. Complaining 
 and reviewing over graphics is, as we all know, a tricky issue. And despite their "You could trip 
 over a better looking game" snarkiness, I think that the game is actually quite nice looking. Is 
 it AAA level? No. But as far as an indie title, like Avernum, Depths of Peril, or the like, then 
 it is quite good.
  
  M&B reminds me, as an old fogey of gaming, of a classic Microprose game called Darklands. It was 
 open ended, had similar "travel around and kill things" gameplay and set in a similar rough-and-tough 
 setting (although Darklands was TBS battles and in Germany) . Is this style of gameplay for everyone? 
 NO! This is NOT an Oblivion clone, as many reviewers seems to posit. This game is a tactical First-Person 
 medieval warfare simulator with a simple, yet fun, set of medieval political system thrown in. 
 You besiege cities, offer fealty to a lord, create armies, participate in battles with higher level 
 lords, back a pretender to a throne to overthrow a kingdom, buy and sell goods, loot villages, 
 train peasants to crack soldiers, and rule over towns that provide income. I can't believe that 
 the Gamespot reviewer put in enough time into the game to actually get into many aspects of the 
 game - knowing how deadlines are (also his pics are telling, they are all low-level armor and weapons, 
 you should see my fully armored tank of a Khergit warrior) .
  
  I think it is unfair to review smaller indie titles in the same fashion as AAA HUGE budget titles. 
 The developer (most singular on this one) has been working on M&B for YEARS, originally asking 
 for only $6 for the right to Beta test and eventually get a full version copy at release (a promise 
 which was HONORED, only a few days after Gamersgate posted it) . 
  
  Innovation should be praised, and the combat in M&B is downright the best medieval first person 
 combat I have ever seen. It should be noted, you can actually play this like a simple RTS too, 
 as you can press and bring up orders and a map to lead your troops (tell them to only use blunt, 
 to fire at will, follow you, hold ground) .
  
  I would give M&B a 90%. Like I said, the game does have some flaws. I have seen no bugs, but there 
 are some. The graphics are very dated. The game is completely open-ended, and certainly player 
 directed in every section, with no "end game." You can certainly gimp your character, and defeat 
 can be a disaster, ruining things that you took hours to build. These flaws will attract some users, 
 however.
  
  Lastly, the mod community and mod-ability of this game is tremendous. You have Roman mods, Fallout 
 mods, Tolkien mods, a "Dies the Fire" book based mod, heck - I expect a Dune mod in the future. 
 All of these worked in the latest beta version, and are being converted to 1.003 as I type.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mjfisher77
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 24, 2008 3:10 pm PT
Review:  For starters, I have been playing video games for 25 years and using Gamespot for many of those; 
 but this is the first time I have every posted a review (yes, I am one of those that saps all the 
 usefulness out of the site and contributes nothing in return) .
  
  I simply could not pass up the opportunity to review this game.
  
  For the past year I have 
 been wrapped up in my XBox but got tired of it and longed for a good, old-fashioned PC game. I 
 tried a couple new ones, and even attempted to replay some old classics; but nothing prepared me 
 for what I found in Mount & Blade. I read the user reviews and decided to download it off Direc2Drive.
 
  
  Let me tell you, this game is as immersive as I have ever played. In just the past week I have 
 been unable to tear myself away. I work in IT and usually spend 60 hours a week burning myself 
 out, but now find myself daydreaming about managing my fiefdom ---nothing has done that to me since 
 Asheron's Call and WoW.
  
  I don't know where the hell GS is coming from, but this game is about so much more than the graphics 
 or storyline. Sometimes a good RPG needs to be open-ended. Sometimes a good RPG is about simplicity, 
 finding your own way, shaping your destiny and having the repetitive pieces be the most enjoyable 
 (i. e. the combat) .
  
  The battles are epic and the campaigns are more fun than GS eluded to. If you come across other 
 Lords in your King's service engaged in a huge battle, you can actually join in and share the glory. 
 If the King is present, he will sometimes thank you and applaud your timeliness. If you conquer 
 castles you can request they be given to you and then await a response from the King. Sometimes 
 he awards it to you, sometimes he apologizes and gives it to a more senior person.
  
  The game has a great commerce system, good character development parameters and a useful vassalage 
 system. And horseriding has never felt realistic in a video game until now.
  
  It also feels just old school enough that it reminds me of some of the simpler RPGs that got me 
 into this in the first place. The world map may be simple, but it works in an almost 'Risk' kinda 
 way. If you approach it as a RPG / Strategy hybrid it makes a lot more sense. This isn't Baldur's 
 Gate, so don't compare the apple against oranges.
  
  Anyway, I have been long-winded with my review but had a lot to say. This is a fantastic game and 
 deserves a look from anyone who truly wants to carve out a piece of a make-believe world without 
 the restrictions of scripts and storylines.
  
  For only $30, do yourself a favor and play it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Beefius-Maximus
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 8, 2008 7:43 am PT
Review:  While the graphics and engine are fairly dated, the gamespot review of 6/10 is outrageous, and 
 the difference between the users and the gamespot review says it all. Open-ended, addictive gameplay 
 combined with a unique and varied skill treemake this game more than slightly enjoyable. Horse-mounted 
 combat is fun and it makes the player wish it could have been implemented into such games as The 
 Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion. The game really draws you into the world, you become a living, breathing 
 part of Calradia. Castle sieges in this game are also something not found in many other games, 
 and the combat, while fairly dated, can offer many hours of enjoyment. The graphics are fairly 
 poor, reminiscent of older games such as Sea Dogs, yet to those who appreciate gameplay do not 
 detract from the game as a whole. This game may not beup to the quality of some of the newer releases 
 that are coming out, but wihtout doubt it will inspire games of the future with its unique brand 
 of gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Russellt28
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 24, 2008 1:29 pm PT
Review:  once in awhile we get games that are reviewed horribly not because of the way they play but because 
 of the expectations of the average gamer.
  
  Gamespots critic review proves this.
  
  this game is NOT an RPG, and it is not an STRATEGY game. its not a historical fiction game either. 
 so what is it exactly? well this is what the real problem is its a game hard to label. and just 
 like an indy-music band it becomes somewhat of a pariah.
  
  So let me break it down for ppl who actually want to try something new and want a real review.
 
  
  right off the bat the game is damn addicting. the battles are awesome, and the strategy of commanding 
 your army is fantastic. traveling from country to country you can mix up your troops by either 
 buying specialist mercaneries or recruting villagers that can branch out intto their own particular 
 "soldier-hood" this makes battles even that much more complex.
  
  Early on in the game you feel like a low hedge knight doing minimal services for royalty, or trading 
 goods between lands. you can also swear fealty to any lord right of the bat and will have to convince 
 him of your worth. Also you can participate in tournaments which grant you a bigger reputation 
 (meaning you can expand armies, and gain respect or hate throughout the land) as well as funds.
 
  
  as your charachter grows in levels, completes quests albeit all which are basically the same he 
 will be granted a castle or perhaps a village of course this too comes with a price as now you 
 will be sworn in officially to a particular ruler.
  
  
  Brace yourself as the gaming gets even more intresting. you must now follow the king into battle 
 give up any past relationships with warring kingdoms and even defend your own castle if you are 
 personally attacked. you can hold enemy kings, nobles hostage for lots of funds or even to complete 
 harder quests.
  
  All this is to continue your seeking of power, lands, fame, and wealth. 
  
  No i am not working 
 for the small team of Mount and Blade i just totaly love this game because it is for a mature ROLE 
 playing audience.
  
  There is no story because it is an authentic experience. you are the story teller. will you pillage 
 villages? will you help their economy? 
  
  Yes the graphics are outdated, and the music and sound is overdone. but the gaming is so damn good 
 and the authenticity of the battles, the true sense of role playing not to mention the great charachter 
 development as well as recrutiment of other charachters with their own quests to fulffill makes 
 it incredibly solid.
  
  I highly recommend this game to anyone with a strong imagination, and a love for the times of Feudilism. 
 if you do not possess these traits then dont review or even try this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Swoosie
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 24, 2008 6:35 am PT
Review:  Mount & Blade is a game I've looked forward to for a while -- a medieval RPG adventure that is 
 rooted more in reality, with no elves, orcs, dragons or other fictional bits. No gigantic female 
 breasts that defy every known law of physics while fulfilling every 15 year old boy's fantasy. 
 However, now that it's here, I find the utter lack of whimsy to make for a very mundane gaming 
 world. It's too real... really real... if I want real, I'll go to a renaissance fair and watch 
 two hairy, sweaty Gamestop employees beat the holy crap out of each other with swords crafted from 
 stop signs, wearing homemade 945 pound chainmail.
  
  Clearly, a ton of work has gone into the game engine -- as others have said, it's possibly the 
 most "natural" feeling combat engine I've played for this genre. However, this engine now needs 
 to be seized by a talented director/writer, given a story, and just a general overall guiding touch 
 to provide a more lively and interesting gaming world. NPCs are lifeless, enemies are lifeless, 
 the "quests" are lifeless, and after about 10 hours of "this is cool! this is cool... this is cool? 
 is this cool?"  I was lifeless... You could envision this engine being used for a medieval Call 
 of Duty 4 -- a story driven military "shooter" but with bows, swords, and shields. Sign me up for 
 some of that! Sgt Briggs would look mighty fine grunting under some 945 pound chain mail. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vanburgh
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 24, 2008 4:09 am PT
Review:  I've been playing Mount & Blade (v0.960) for a week now, and I have to admit that despite the somewhat 
 outdated graphics by today's standards, the game is very very addictive.
  
  My favorite part of combat is the horse-mounted part. It feels so intuitively right I've never 
 thought that horse-mounted combat could be so much fun.
  
  Being open ended fits the game perfectly because I can do anything I want without worrying about 
 the storyline. And the interaction between NPC Heroes is thoughtfully done.
  
  There's several issues that I hope would be addressed on the full version, but I have yet to download 
 it yet, but the issues are relatively minor and won't detract much from the fun.
  
  If you haven't tried it yet, try and download the beta version first from its website. You could 
 play up until level 6 or 30 days game time.
  
  Oh and I really really disagree with the GS review this time. Obviously they didn't do a fair review 
 on this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snowboarddude360
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 23, 2008 11:15 pm PT
Review:  I have no idea what the gamespot guy was talking about, this game was made by an indie developer 
 and it had no advertising budget and yet the game is still a smashing success. The game plays like 
 an amazing dream, the combat is highly addictive and entertaining. The graphics are great and can 
 support up to 150 enemies (maybe more, I don't know the exact numbers) on screen at once with no 
 lag. The game is simply stunningly deep for a game produced with such a low budget. I don't think 
 enough can be said about the game. There are also countless mods that either change the maps, weapons, 
 models, or all of the above. The game is extremely versatile and powerful. One of the best games 
 I have played in years.
  
  The one downside to this game is that there is no multiplayer. I would also say that while the 
 combat is amazing, after a while (60+ hours) it may get repetitive. 
  
  As a side note, and I'm sure it has been mentioned before by other posters, the combat in the upcoming 
 MMO Darkfall has been quoted by the developers to be inspired by Mount+blade. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bobbyjd23
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 23, 2008 11:54 pm PT
Review:  This is a very underrated game. Mount & Blade is innovative, Original, Fun and addicting.
  
  Gamespot's review of Mount & Blade makes me wonder about all of the other games that i didn't 
 buy because they got a low score.
  
  I'm starting to wonder if Gamespot gets a kickback from some of the major developers for ranking 
 their games high and the makers of Mount & Blade didn't give them enough money... LOL
  
  I used to take Gamespots word as gospel. But after this review i'll never do it again. 
  
  
 If you like Strategy and RPG's mixed in with a little bit of action, You'll LOVE this game.
  Not to mention you can build up your own army!! Yeehah!!
  
  My opinion is that if you give 
 this game an hour of your time, You will be pleasantly surprised.
  
  AND Hooked...
  Not bad for a 39 dollar game.
  
  It also has very good modding support. Something Brett Todd (Gamespot 
 Reviewer) didn't emphasize very well. 
  
  
  I'm curious to see what other games Brett Todd has reviewed because he was WAY off on this one. 
 It would be nice if Gamespot implemented a "Review the Reviewers" section on this site. If so i 
 would rank him a 3.0 for his shotty review of this great game.
  
  I wish Greg Kasavin had reviewed this game.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: oipluckie
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 23, 2008 9:54 pm PT
Review:  I've played this game for quite some time now through all the versions it went through. This game 
 is mostly about the mods if you're willing to wait for them. Also the native for MB isn't so bad 
 as well. The graphics are fine, but hey graphics aren't everything are they? Gamespot critics always 
 seem so crappy when they're judging something. The battles are great, the growth of your character 
 is well made, and even though the game doesn't have much of a story line it is still one hell of 
 a game to play when you just want large scale battles (hoping that you have a decent computer) . 
 There are mods that increases the texture and the looks of the game as well as long as you know 
 how to incorporate these into the game. IMO this game is awesome if you give it some time and try 
 the mods out for MB. You'll really see how fun this game is so give it a try and see how stupid 
 GS critics are. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: naive_harry
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 23, 2008 7:26 pm PT
Review:  The game is so cool, but do not believe the game spot reviewers, I don't know whats wrong with 
 these people, but anyways we should encourage such innovation and that's what is needed to spice 
 up the gaming world after every gaming companies have made a formula to success with a FPS or an 
 RPG or an RTS. I installed this game in the morning before leaving for office and played it for 
 30 minutes, and all I was thinking the whole day was to come back and get my hands on it, and I 
 spent next three days to play a total of 45 hours on this game (weekend + Friday) , and I tell you 
 what the combat is so awesome that even the high budget games like oblivion should learn something 
 from it. The game has so many mods to it and its not that tough to start one of your own, and honestly 
 I believe game spot always sides up with the more high budget games if not 9 it deserved an easy 
 8, when games like bio shock can get 9.0, this game should get a 10.
  Nobody mentioned, 
  
  Good: 
  1) The game can run on a huge no. of PCS, with directx 7.1 and 9.0 compatibility.
 
  How many games do that these days? none, becuse they have a tie up with nvidia to make it impossible 
 for anyone to game without a nvidia card.
  
  2) The best horse back combat ever to have come on a PC game. Game spot didn't highlight that.
 
  
  OK I guess I am getting late to go to office... 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pantaleone
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 23, 2008 6:28 pm PT
Review:  When you first go for the game you think...350Mb (was even less before) . And well you download 
 it and know that it is low budget so it won't look good. First surprise, looks better than you 
 imagined. Then you do the tutorial... and your jaw drops to the floor. How come this game do not 
 have a high budget yet? Where are the game producers? This game's system just, flat out, ROCKS.
 
  It is actually so good, that you will spend many ours addicted to this completely new, sharp, 
 genius, gameplay.
  The battle and all of its aspects (except archery, that could get more zoom and less gravity pull 
 as level in archery increases) are so good and well made. Test all weapons, they are all different 
 and unique in use, both on foot and horse.
  
  Gamespot's review was really out of context, you just can not compare this game with a high budget 
 game in matter of money depending things, like graphics.
  
  Why does the god of game not get the budget of poorly made high-budget games and give it to talewords?? 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LoneSnakeX
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 23, 2008 2:54 pm PT
Review:  Mount & Blade is the most innovative and realistic medieval game we have seen in years. 
  
  You start of as a regular person, do some quests, buy some equipement and armos and you gradually 
 develop yourself. And when your ready start recruiting soldiers and create your own private army 
 which can range up to 100 soldiers, you will have archers, horseman, swordsman, spearman, spikeman 
 and the list goes on and on.
  Once your ready you can take an oath to one of the Kingdoms or if you feel like it why not just 
 become a rebel and overthrow a King and crown yourself.
  
  One of the best features of this game is when you besiege a castle. The game turns into a FPS-RPG-RTS 
 a unique combination to say the least. Not only will you be on the battlefield yourself; fighting 
 along side your own troops, you will have to lead your men into victory by commands and orders. 
 
  
  And did I even mention the mods that are available for this game? I have come across more then 
 100 different mods.
  Give this game a try, I promise you, your gonna thank me afterwards. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lex_Looter
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 23, 2008 2:21 pm PT
Review:  Mount&Blade is so awesome it will rock your socks right off. BOTH of them. 
  
  It surely doesn't have stellar graphics, I'll tell you right now - they're decent enough for you 
 to know you're not stuck in the 90's, and good enough for you to have a great time playing the 
 game. However, if you'd rather play benchmark for bragging rights, go with crysis or oblivion or 
 whatever will tax your system the most. 
  
  Mount and Blade isn't a pretentious title. 
  
  It doesn't sell itself as the next evolution in gaming, and yet it manages to deliver where 
 most of the big names in industry fail consistently. 
  
  Let's face it, most of the hyped, overrated, overpriced and buggy mega-titles are bland, repetitive 
 and generally underwhelming. What was the last time you bought a game and thought "this thing is 
 all it cracked up to be"? Yeah, I couldn't remember either, because usually they just don't live 
 up to the expectations. That's because, when it comes to games, we've grown used to buying promises, 
 not products. 
  
  On the other hand, Mount&Blade was really impressive because I didn't really had any expectation, 
 but found it to be incredibly fun and challenging.
  
  And I'll take a simple but effective game over a boring superproduction anytime. 
  
  It's true 
 that it doesn't have a story, but actually that's one of its best features. "Story-driven" is corporate 
 slang for linear, boring games that have little to no replay value - just another marketing tool 
 to sell the ugly as pretty. The official GS review is actually excellent proof that some people 
 get so used to being pushed around in "story-driven" games that, when given the freedom to act 
 as they wish, they're confused and clueless.
  
  And that's the beauty of Mount and Blade - you will never, ever get that feeling that the developers 
 are pulling you around by the nose, because you can truly choose your path and make your own story.
 
  
  Let me tell you, there isn't a lack of options in this game. If you have any sparkle of imagination 
 in your mind, you're up for an unforgettable treat.
  
  Be whatever you want - a merchant, a soldier, a paladin, a thief, a noble, a vassal of kingdoms, 
 a traitor. You can side with wronged heirs and overthrow kingdoms. You can choose not to ally with 
 anyone and raise your own band of soldiers, challenging the stablished powers and conquering lands 
 for your own profit. Sell your enemies as slaves. Take their castles and towns. Burn and loot their 
 villages.
  
  And you can do all that whenever you wish, because you're not stuck with canned profiles or classes. 
 Also true, the game doesn't have a story in the conventional sense - there are only side-quests 
 and after a while they do become repetitive, but none is mandatory - they are more like a footstep 
 you can use during the early stages of the game to obtain some gold and experience. Other than 
 that, you're your own master and the story is up to you, start to end. That's just incredible.
 
  
  The game is all about combat - huge armies in the field, with cavalry, archers and infantry, and 
 despite what the review says, you do have control over your troops. A mere glance at the control 
 setup screen is enough to understand how it works. 
  
  And the combat is the best part of the game. It truly shines when you're leading a hundred knights 
 into the enemy lines, smashing skulls with a heavy mace or taking them out with your bow, parthian 
 style - in third or first person.
  
  It actually takes a lot of skill to be successful, while in most games all it takes is bumping 
 up stats and piling up magical items that can turn a wimp into a killing machine.
  
  The combat system is so awesome that, after a couple years playing this game, I still find myself 
 leaning sideways in my chair while making turns as a knight.
  
  The game developer also offers full support for modders, as rarely seen nowadays. There is a thriving 
 community that offers hundreds of modules you can download and play for free - you don't need to 
 pay for premium packs or online subscriptions in order to have additional content.
  
  Not only that, but Taleworlds actively support their users. What was the last time you posted a 
 question in a game's forum and the main developer bothered to reply, personally? From most companies, 
 you can't expect more than the automated, canned e-mail response telling you how you're a really, 
 really important customer.
  
  There are a few small glitches, yeah, but none that will really spoil your experience. I've been 
 playing this since the early betas and can tell you that all the issues are being constantly and 
 consistently addressed, so I'm confident they will keep improving the game.
  
  I'm writing this to the people who understand that we, as gamers, are the end of the gaming chain. 
 *We* don't do it for a profit - we're the ones funding the whole industry. As such, the so-called 
 "high production values" may be very important for each and every business along that chain, but 
 for us it's much more interesting to have *Entertainment Value* - which is lacking.
  
  We're not interested in Value-Added BS, we want fun stuff for our hard-earned money - and this 
 game is a lot of fun. It surely deserves a better rating.
  
  If, like me, you are sick and tired of hyped games that just don't deliver, if you have tried most 
 of the titles that came out in the last few years and still don't have more than four or five games 
 that are worth the money you've paid for them, give Mount&Blade a shot. The demo is free, it's 
 a quick download. All it takes is a small investment in time and effort, and I guarantee it will 
 pay off handsomely. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TiJakim
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 23, 2008 1:51 pm PT
Review:  The review was done by someone facing it as a chore, and comparing it to games of different genre.
 
  The game is worth trying out and by now it is the game that spent more time on my HD, side by 
 side with Diablo II.
  Also one of the greatest features is the modding tools and community, both have hardly been mentioned.
 
  I reckon if the said reviewer had been on a more jolly mood the score would have been higher... 
 Or perhaps the new gamespot politic is to only give big reviews to big budget games. EA has nothing 
 to worry about, if even spore got an 8...
  Now about the game: the mounted combat system is a lump of fresh air on action games, and contrary 
 to the reviewers opinion there's a feeling of ultimate power when your riding along 50 swadians 
 knights in full armor, charging a rhodok lord :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EatU4Lunch
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 23, 2008 12:48 pm PT
Review:  This is a sandbox title. Kind of like you know... spore. It doesn't have a set story. It has plenty 
 of seeds for stories though: claimants to the throne whom you can help reclaim what's rightfully 
 theirs, be it through war or by convincing the lords to join you instead of the usurper. The invasion 
 of the Nords whom you can fight off or join. This is just the tip of the iceberg.
  
  This game was designed to work with mods. Personally, to me the original campaign is more of a 
 tutorial. There are plenty of mods out there that are now being redone for version 1.03, some of 
 them have plots and a lot of structure, others are also a sandbox.
  
  Still, to complain that a sandbox game isn't holding your hand enough for you is misguided at best.
 
  
  With all that said, it's really not a game that can be enjoyed to it's fullest without mods, and 
 as such it really needs to have a better system for getting the word out about them than a forum. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Syzgygy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 23, 2008 12:33 pm PT
Review:  Mount & Blade
  -------------
  
  A] First off, the most important thing to keep in mind about M&B is that this is a game created 
 by a smaller company. This isn't a big budget production.
  
  B] The second thing to make a note of is that the game tries to focus on the medieval combat experience.
 
  
  
  More on A:
  The first thing you'll notice about M&B is the graphics - you'll instantly start comparing it with 
 all other titles out there, naturally. Compared to say the newer FPS titles such as the newer edition 
 of Crysis, M&B does not stand a chance. However, the graphics are sufficient, functional and light 
 on most systems allowing many of the lower-end systems to run the game properly. When Crysis first 
 game out, a lot of us couldn't even run it on the higher settings, so the point of it being there 
 at the time was rather moot in our case. The game sports shiny armor and well-created cities, villages 
 (You're able to walk around in these areas at your leisure) , snowy/spring terrain, interiors such 
 as taverns and castles, in addition nicely created and proportioned/scaled horses (many types, 
 fast/armored etc) compared to the environment. It all blends into the game graphics and never looks 
 out of place. I've heard it time and time again when it comes to the beta versions of the game, 
 people try the game, think the graphics look old - but as they play, they get used to the graphics 
 and actually start enjoying it for what it is. It's not trying to be photo-realistic, they never 
 claimed it to be - the focus has been on functionality - to have a graphics engine which could 
 render all the troops on the battlefield without causing your computer to keel over.
  
  There's a physics engine in the game, which is especially noticable as people fall off ramparts/walls 
 in castle/city fights and when people fall off horses and so on.
  
  There's a lot of armor and weapons with their appropriate attributes, such as weight, reach (short-sword 
 as opposed to a spear) etc and it all has an impact on your combat performance on the battlefield. 
 It's all interesting, and you can play around with different weapon load-outs until you find something 
 that suits your play-style. You'll be able to carry 4 slots of weapons; I. E (Bow/Arrows/Sword/Shield) . 
 You can quickly change between these while in a fight, and you can also pick up equipment dropped 
 by others on the battlefield as well as horses (not armor pieces though) .
  
  You'll be able to recruit heroes (named soldiers which level up and progress as they earn xp; you'll 
 need to outfit them and equip them yourself) . These'll fight longside you in battles and its a 
 blast to see one riding around clubbing people in the head with the new Morningstar you just bought 
 him. You'll also be able to recruit other soldiers of various types, be it archers, spearmen, knights 
 etc - these will also level and gain experience, so there is an incentive to keep your men alive. 
 The men also need to eat, so you need to keep your inventory stocked with varations of food - the 
 more variation the happier and deadlier will your men be when they're fighting. 
  
  There is a set number of Kingdoms in the game, which you can either choose to work for (do missions 
 for the King, help the Lords serving under the King) , or not. As a trusted man of the King of your 
 choosing, you'll after earning his trust be able to be the Lord of your own castle and keep/city 
 as well as the village (s) under its protection. It'll be your responsibility to safeguard it, and 
 you'll be able to build improvements on both the castle and village to aid you in this task. In 
 return you'll receive the tax earnings. You can be the Lord of more than one estate at the time. 
 Your King decides whether or not to grant you the ownership. The other Lords ride around doing 
 the same thing you are, trying to capture other castles and so forth, if you have a good standing 
 with any of them you can rally forces and attack combined.
  
  
  More on B:
  The main focus of the game is on combat, the intensity and directness of medieval combat. 
  
 
  There are quests in the game, for example to join the rebellion against one of the Kings and earn 
 your place as a Marshal servering under the new King is possible, and could be considered one the 
 main quest (mainly as it is the closest thing you can come to being a King yourself) . There are 
 smaller quests also, but these do tend to get repeated a lot; bring/kill type quests; often issued 
 by people in taverns, the king, lords or by the heads of whatever villages you happen to rule over. 
 Doing quests/combat deeds etc will earn you reputation status and respect or disrespect depending 
 on what the circumstances are. You may have to earn reputation to gain advantages of prices, higher 
 tally of people wanting to join your army/warband/group and to get Lord status over a city or castle.
 
  
  For the quest-lovers, I can understand that there aren't many quests with a deep story and wide 
 implications, however I think the game as it stands now, tries to give the player freedom instead 
 of feeling obligated to do quests to get ahead. The innovative thinking on multiple aspects of 
 the game, from combat/horseback/castle sieging to RPG elements (speccing skills/equipping both 
 you and companions) and to see it all play out in fluent and direct combat should be the main appeal.
 
  
  We can only imagine what this game could have been if they had the budget; A lot of the bigger 
 companies could learn a thing or two about creating a fun and at the same time casual game. You 
 play as you like, as much as you like, and set yourself your own goals of what to achieve, how 
 and with what means to achieve it.
  
  In short:
  This game is worth checking out. You'll most lightly like it and wish for more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theonlyone3
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 23, 2008 12:20 pm PT
Review:  Mount & Blade is an excellent game. I've been playing it since the V 0.50 beta. I have multiple 
 characters upwards of level 30. While it is true that the story and quests aren't that great, that's 
 not the point of the game. Quake 3 arena and Unreal Tournament 2004 don't have hardly any story, 
 nor do they have the ability to level up your character over time, but that didn't stop Gamespot 
 from rating them highly. Mount & Blade is an excellent freeform 3rd-person combat-based RPG. If 
 your looking for a great story and amazing graphics, Then don't buy this game, as it is not for 
 you. If you like engrossing gameplay that will glue you to the screen for hours and don't mind 
 a few bugs, then this game is for you. I recommend this game to all fans of oblivion or other open-ended 
 RPG or action game fans. The first few levels aren't very exciting, but once you hit about level 
 10 the game really starts to take on a life of it's own. If people would buy this game and review 
 it based on what they thought of it, rather than on Gamespot's review, This game will quickly have 
 an excellent reader review score. Show Gamespot they can't give an independent title an unfair 
 shake and get away with it. This game certainly isn't as bad as Kane & Lynch, which also got a 
 6.0. This is the guy that should have got fired for giving wrong review scores, not Jeff. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnfenger
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 6, 2009 1:39 pm PT
Review:  The fighting and wandering is great, the story is non-existent Mount & Blade 2 is going to be fantastic 
 if a studio with money buys the title. Personally i played the game for hours strait just building 
 up my little army and doing stuff... but i just found my self wondering what the point of it all 
 was, where was my castle? I loved this game when it was free, and am really excited about more 
 development being poured into it. But roaming the land fighting people, and delivering mail is 
 only fun for 30 hours or so. So to sum it up.. worth playing, and has some awesome potential. Simple 
 pleasure.
  
  Ok so i bought the full version and its much better, not what i have my own castle, and am on my 
 way to complete domination. well worth the $6 i paid for it on steam. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Long_Ranger
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 23, 2008 11:53 am PT
Review:  The Gamespot review giving Mount and Blade 6 out of 10 is unduly harsh and comes from someone too 
 used to orthodox RPGs filled with monsters, elves, and orcs.
  
  This game is a fresh departure from the unending mediocre RPG games with huge fluff of graphics 
 and no substance.
  The combat system of M&B is far SUPERIOR to that of any RPG game I have played since I got my first 
 PC over a decade ago. This game have you wanting more and more as you progress from a lonely young 
 adventurer to a well known warlord held in dread by many a enemy, also when you tire of beating 
 up everybody in Calradia you can always download one of many mods of your choosing.
  
  I recommend Mount and Blade to any first person shooter player who want a breath of fresh air without 
 feeling like a WoW nerd. You will kill lots of scum and feel good about it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cooltechie
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 23, 2008 10:19 am PT
Review:  Now I've been playing Mount&Blade from back in the beta stage (as have many) and bought it a good 
 while back, and in all honesty it is a bit.. rough. I will address the problems first, because, 
 in all honesty, when you get to the meat of it you utterly forget them.
  
  The first problem is the economy (or lack of) ; making money is as simple as it gets. You run from 
 one place to another buying and selling, no skill involved, and easy money (a lot of it) .
  
  The second problem is the graphics.. well this isn't too much of a problem really, after you 
 get over the shock of a character that's poligonated beyond belief you begin to forget them. The 
 shader effects are very nice, good tree shadows, and the water reflections aren't bad either - 
 it's not crysis, but nothing is.
  
  The third problem is a rather big one actually; getting captured, released, captured, released 
 etc. in an endless cycle due to overwhelming enemy force. This (pretty much) only happens if you 
 align yourself with a kingdom all rival kingdoms will attack you - and if you get captured by an 
 army of a couple hundred you aren't going to get much good out of it. But the problem doesn't end 
 there, you get released, and then a few seconds later the army has captured you again. This doesn't 
 happen all the time but still it's annoying.
  
  The fourth (and final) problem is to do with finding out about your troop's morale and what they 
 like and dislike, the information is a bit vague, but as long as you are sensible not much should 
 go wrong (it really is important to pay attention to your troops though) .
  
  Now I'm sure you're all thinking that's quite a lot of problems, and I'm sure you're all wondering 
 how I will justify a 9.5 - in all honesty it's hard to explain.
  
  The gameplay - this is what's at the heart of the game, I've haven't noticed an ounce of story 
 (well, actually I have, you sort of make your own, as you go around the world your troop will tell 
 you interesting thing about certain locations, and in a way you carve your own story, it's not 
 brilliant, there isn't any scripting or voice acting, but it's satisfying, very satisfying.
  
  The combat is truly brilliant, not only is the actual combat satisfying due to huge battles 
 you commanding one army, your enemy commanding another, charging into battle on horses with crossbows, 
 swords, pole arms, a few bowmen on foot ready to take people down from a range (you get the picture) , 
 it's also rather smart. Prior to Mount&Blade I have never seen a game where if you have your shield 
 on your back and an arrow hits it, it actually block. It doesn't sound like much but it's these 
 small improvements that make the combat so satisfying, in most game the arrow goes through and 
 you loose 5 hit points, and it does this for pretty much everything.
  
  The controls make or break a game, and here they are brilliant. Easy to use controls allow good 
 fast paced game play against many enemies without the slightest key confusion, or loosing a battle 
 because the game didn't react fast enough. It works, it's very playable and it just makes the game 
 even more fun.
  
  The music is the last 'upside' I'm going to mention, it is really really good, now this really 
 surprised me. A good soundtrack adds a lot of feel and atmosphere, and not only are the sound effects 
 good, so is the music, creating a really epic feel.
  
  Well.. I lied, there is one more upside that I have to mention, a good modding community. Even 
 the best games get old after a while, some last 10 hours, some last 1000 (morrowind anyone?) , but 
 an active modding community is a sure way to keep it going until.. well until the modding community 
 stops.. and this one doesn't seem to be doing that any time soon. So when you've had your fill 
 of the normal game (which takes a good while) you then have many more user made 'modules' to download 
 an play (and just for your information there is one being made at the moment reworking the game's 
 graphics, and it looks very good) .
  
  Epic battles, Well written text, Active modders and some of the most satisfying gameplay I've come 
 across make this game one my favourites - ever. The critics don't hail it so well, but ignore them, 
 take a glance at the average player review, that says all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gibeee
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 23, 2008 9:51 am PT
Review:  You don't need a story to enjoy game. Sometimes the sheer bloodlust involved is rewarding enough. 
 
  
  Mount and Blade has a horse combat system that exceeds those of all others games in terms of realism- 
 even Assassins Creed.
  
  Combat is the rewarding bit as quests may tend to get repetitive. Think of battle as an excerpt 
 from the pages of an RTS where you are in direct control of only the general. All other units move 
 and attack the verbal orders that you bark out. Given that battle maps are randomly generated and 
 that there is a treasure trove of armour, weapons and steeds in the game the thrill of riding into 
 battle never seems to go down.
  
  The game was developed by a husband and wife team from Turkey. I guess its only appropriate for 
 gamers to doff their berets to them to come up which such a great game. True, it maybe a bit unattractive 
 graphically but such attention to detail will probably take a backseat once combat is explored. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TenebrionCQ
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 23, 2008 7:59 am PT
Review:  I'm going to start this review off by stating that the Gamespot official review is absolute bunk. 
 I'm sorry, but Mount & Blade is one of the most innovative games to come out in years, and to give 
 it a 6.0 for trivial reasons is a transparent attempt to 'keep the little guy down' that can't 
 afford to pay off this videogame website for a positive review.
  
  Having said that, Mount & Blade is complex, realistic, immersive, and engaging. If you're a medieval 
 fan that enjoys medieval simulations, this game'll suck you right in, and steal hours of your life 
 away. Being able to manually swing your sword, use your shield to block, and fire arrows into a 
 horde of hundreds of enemies simply isn't matched by any other medieval game out there.
  
  The graphics could be better, and there's no multiplayer. If both of these two points were resolved, 
 the game would be pretty easily go from being a 9.5 to a 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shigawire3D
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 23, 2008 7:41 am PT
Review:  This game is well worth the money. There is quite a gap between the Critics' review score of 6.0 
 and the users' avg. score of 9.1 
  There's definitely a lot of room for improvement and potential in this game. But considering that 
 this game was started by 1 guy (Armagan) doing the coding, and his wife doing the graphics, it's 
 very impressive indeed.
  
  The game can best be described as Sid Meier's Pirates on land, mixed with Oblivion.
  
  The 
 combat system is simple but brilliant, and highly functional. In stark contrast to Oblivion, a 
 huge title where hundred million dollars were invested, the combat system in M&B is a lot more 
 engaging and believable.
  
  Oblivion is more of a story-driven game, with a strong story as well as an enormous landscape. 
 Gorgeous visuals.
  Famous actors such as Patrick Stewart. But all of this, in my mind, does not help the game. It 
 may help immersion, but not the game play.
  
  The total amount of hours I've spent playing Oblivion pales in comparison to the time I've spent 
 on M&B. This is not due to mediocre processing power or graphics card, as I've got an Intel Extreme 
 Quad core, and Geforce 8800gtx. It's simply down to the fun of the game play. The rewarding feeling 
 from surviving an intense sword fight thanks to reflexes and player skill.
  Whereas the weapons in Oblivion "feel" like plastic weapons as you use them, M&B gives a more authentic 
 feel. If you get hit hard enough, you may even fall down, having to get back up. This adds to the 
 frenzied gamer immersion. 
  
  
  M&B allows you both directional attacks and directional blocks. Directional blocking is an optional 
 feature however, as it increases the difficulty a great deal. The default is automatic block direction. 
 If you are in a fight with a two-handed sword, and have "manual block direction" turned on, you 
 have to work extra hard to survive. The enemy may feint an attack from the left - leading you to 
 prematurely block left, and then attack you with a right slash instead. Only difficult A. I. uses 
 feints though.
  
  The directions of attack/block are 4: 
  Thrust 
  Slash Down
  Slash Left
  Slash Right
  
  And these directions are simply controlled by your last mouse 
 movement before releasing the Left/Right Mouse Button. I strongly recommend Manual Block Direction 
 for a challenge.
  
  Whereas Oblivion's weapons all deal the same kind of damage (ignoring magic) , the weapons in M&B 
 deal different kinds of damage. This is part of the brilliance of the melee system. 
  
  
  3 types of damage: 
  C (Cut) - deals the most damage, but is not efficient against armor.
  
 P (Pierce) - deals less damage than Cut, but is very efficient against armor.
  B (Blunt) - deals the least damage, but can knock people unconscious, allowing you to sell them 
 as slaves or ransom.
  
  One weapon may have both Cut and Pierce at the same time. For example, a sword gives "Pierce" damage 
 when you "thrust" it forth, while it gives "Cut" damage when you "slash" it left/right/down. So 
 if you encounter a heavily armored enemy, and you have a sword, and don't happen to have an armor-piercing 
 Morning Star on you, the best thing you could do is to use only thrust attacks on your enemy. Potentially 
 you can also try to only slash the enemy on the parts of his body where he has no armor.
  
  An extra kind of attack is called "Couched Lance Damage"
  This is an overcharged thrust (P) , 
 caused by the speed gained from sitting on a galloping horse, combined with the kinetic force dealt 
 through a very long "pole-arm" weapon such as Great Lance, Jousting Lance, Staff, etc.
  Damage dealt here can be 4 to 5 times as much as the heftiest weapons you can find. This ability 
 wasn't a part of Oblivion, as the horse was mostly a transportation mechanism (and moved as such) . 
 In M&B the horse is a fully fledged weapons platform, and combat reflects this.
  
  Beyond the 4 directions, the 3 damage types, there is also the actual physical "range" of Melee 
 Weapons. Whether or not these values even existed in Oblivion is unknown. They were certainly not 
 mentioned on any stats.
  A Great Sword in M&B has a range of 110, while a dagger may have only a range of 50. A Great Lance 
 has a range of 215. This gives you a lot of ideas about how you can plan an attack.
  
  Archery and crossbows are also a part of M&B. Crossbows typically are more precise and deal a lot 
 more damage than bows, but they are much slower to reload. You can even do horse-archery, and it 
 is very well done.
  
  Buy this game. Because you're going to be playing for many hours, and because you should support 
 independent developers who innovate more than the establishment developers care to risk. Innovation 
 and R&D is considered a "risk" in the corporate world. Risk is often "socialized" - that is, the 
 burden and cost of innovation is handed to the population at large. This is true for all kinds 
 of corporations, not just major game publishing houses. That's why you will often see a lot more 
 innovation from independents than from established ones. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Drac0_81
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 23, 2008 6:56 am PT
Review:  i thougth that at gamespot there are gamers doing the reviews not salesmen. this game is based 
 upon a new idea, simulating a knight (or whatever) riding up and down the country plus an open 
 ended RPG.
  
  let me see, an almost new RPG, NWN2 get 8.6? that game is for children not for those who played 
 the Baldurs Gate (s) .
  oooh its the shiny-glittering 3d sight!
  
  damn a game isnt just about the view! its about fun!
  in my opinion the graphic is a second thing 
 after entertainment.
  
  blah blah blah blah blah blah blah
  blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah
  blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah 
 blah blah blah
  blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah
  blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah
  blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah 
 blah blah blah
  blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah
  blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah
  blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah 
 blah blah blah
  blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blahblah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah 
 blah blah
  blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah
  blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blahblah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah 
 blah blah
  blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah
  blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah
  blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah 
 blah blah blah
  
  (why i need to write 100 words (AND 800 chars) ?) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PHeMoX
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 23, 2008 5:52 am PT
Review:  It's easy to judge a game by it's looks and at first I did not think much of Mount & Blade. At 
 the same time my first experience with actually playing the game proved my first impressions wrong 
 and it really showed that some games don't really deserve to be compared to others like that. There's 
 really no need to avoid this game because of it's graphical look, quite the contrary.
  
  And still it does looks good, but it's far from 'next-gen'. This might be off putting for some 
 at first, but the gameplay and freedom in this game really totally make up for it. Judged by the 
 amount of people that like MMOs with worse graphics than this game, it doesn't really need to look 
 better anyways, bt the developer promised to release some more updates in the future.
  
  For those of you that are looking for a story in this game, you're not going to find a real story. 
 This game was designed to be open-ended with random events, huge battles between kingdoms at certain 
 intervals and so on. This was all done in a very convincing and realistic way, so don't worry about 
 weird impossible events like a King that has no army start a war and things like that.
  
  Basically the combat is the highlight of the game and the satisfaction you'll get from successfully 
 defeating your enemies is huge. It takes a little bit of practice, but from quite early on you 
 will notice this game's combat simply is awesome! There's nothing quite like it as you can parry 
 attacks realistically, block and strike at different angles. When looking at recent AAA games, 
 there's really no game at all who even tried this hugely realistic approach of a more direct control 
 over your weapons. You'll notice right away that this kind of combat is highly addictive and that's 
 the main thing why you'll be coming back for more over and over again. There's plenty of loot to 
 scavenge, cities to plunder, castles to conquer and so on. Some of the quests early on aren't that 
 interesting as they tend to be 'send this message to that person'-kind of things, but it gets better 
 very quickly. (Also, you can increase time, so you don't have to wait that long for your character 
 to move across the worldmap and reach it's destination) .
  
  In my opinion though a lot of the RPG stuff really is secondary to the game, like an added bonus. 
 Sure, they still have giving it enough attention to make the game worthwhile as a whole, but as 
 the title suggests this game is really all about it's combat. Which is, and I can't repeat myself 
 too often here, quite frankly the best I've ever seen when it comes to direct controls. So, what 
 are you waiting for? Go grab yourself a copy and see for yourself! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RobARich
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 23, 2008 5:39 am PT
Review:  I can't say that the GameSpot review was inaccurate but the conclusion misses the point. Mount 
 & Blade's open-ended game play and totally immersive battles make this game a winner. Yes, the 
 questing system is thin, routine and boring but unless you need content spoon fed to you, you will 
 find that you don't need the quests to develop your character or army. 
  
  The combat is so intense and visually realistic that in many ways that you feel as though you were 
 there. The game's hallmark is its attempt at making the experience authentic. It's true, there 
 are not many commands that you can issue your troops in combat that's realistic. In the 1200s 
 orders had to be simple enough to communicate with a few blasts on a simple horn. It would be nice 
 if infantry troops started battles in formations but the game skips the initial orderliness and 
 jumps to the chaos that was typical of battles in that era. Yes, there is only one latter or ramp 
 into a castle during the siege but given the relative size of the castle and the armies on the 
 screen it's completely realistic. It creates the sense of what it must have been like to be the 
 first into the breach.
  
  The game gets progressively more rewarding as you are awarded a castle and grow your private army.
 
  
  The game spot review sites bugs and quality issues but after about 50 hours of game play I have 
 seen no sign of a bug and had no crashes. That's more that I can say for many high-budget games 
 with big price tags that GameSpot gave much higher scores.
  
  It's true, this game is more artisan bread then wonder bread but if you enjoy exploration and mastering 
 a challenging combat environment you may enjoy Mount & Blade. Believe me, the $30 I paid for the 
 game was easily justified.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: flesh19no
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 23, 2008 3:48 am PT
Review:  What is happening to the gaming industry to day? Crappy hollow games like Assassins Creed gets 
 a "9.0" score everywhere and games like this is overlooked and given a low score. In Assassins 
 Creed you get blown away with the graphics right away and amazed by the climbing. But if you play 
 it for over 2 hours you know the game has not much more to offer. Maybe this was their intension 
 all along so it would get good reveiw as most give the game a good reveiw since they don't bother 
 playing it for too long.
  
  Every thing the reviewer said bad about this game is what I actually like about it. Story? Who 
 needs it, I wanna create my own story and do what I want.
  Talk to farmers in villages? Boring! What I hated about Oblivion was that every F****** NPC in 
 the game had to tell you his whole life story! Too boring and took too long and drew away the focus 
 of the action and plot in the game. And above all: the Reviewer critisizes the game for being too 
 big and "no focus". WELL IT IS 10 TIMES BETTER THAN TO BE TOLD WHAT TO DO LIKE WALKING IN A F****** 
 MAZE!! But I guess what that is theese mainstream reveiwers want, so they don't have to sit for 
 too long to explore the game?!??!
  
  And every time I play it I discover new things: Like I attacked some poor farmers and one of my 
 guys in my group consulted me later with this saying he didnt like to loot and kill poor farmers. 
 And another time after a fight one of my group members complainted about the other saying he was 
 getting in his way during combat. And I actually saw it too! They crashed their horses into each 
 other... so this is not scriptet, its dynamic. 
  And that is my conclusion: This game is 100 % Dynamic, therefor you can't have a story... you have 
 to make your own story. And did I forget to mention the gameplay? Gameplay is 100 % solid. It crushes 
 all other games out there. And the horseriding is the most realistic I have ever seen (except for 
 Shadow Of The Colossus, but who could top that?) . So reviewers out there: Try the game for a little 
 more than 10 hours before you review it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mehedee
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 9, 2008 4:00 am PT
Review:  I first got the beta from gamespot. At first i didn't liked the game because i could not understand 
 anything. But when i started to play this game seriously, i found it more addictive then most other 
 game. The graphics are just awesome, I got all high and played it. The sounds are also awesome. If 
 i could , i would have give this game in gameplay 100 in 10. Overall ,in my opinion, this game deserves 
 a 9.0 .
  
  I know that there are some weird bugs in the game. But they do not do any big kind of harm to anything 
 of the game. But gamespot took it as a great issue .
  
  Gamespot said that the game is boring in at first, I also admit that. But if you play this game 
 for 50-100 days in the game days, you'll start to enjoy it. And i didn't find anything wrong with 
 the starting. What do you want in the starting??? When you are a newcomer to calradia, you cant 
 have a huge army. Have anyone seen the armors which were worn by the player of gamespot????????? 
 They are the lowest kind of gear and armor a player can have in the game. Gamespot wished to play 
 well in the game with that foul kind of player!!!!
  At first you must be patient and try your best to level up your character to level 20. Then you 
 should get some gears and and armors and should have a army of 30 men. Then you can expect to rise 
 up in the game. And you need to play more and more if you want to prosper in this game.
  
  Overall, I will say that this game can never deserve a 6.0 .Gamespot should have ignored the bugs 
 and should have given this game a minimum of 8.0 .
  
  Many great games do not get what they deserve. Mount and blade is one of them.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jurica
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 23, 2008 2:45 am PT
Review:  THE GOOD
  
  Although the game is sorely lacking in today graphic standards, it more than makes it up in other 
 areas. The game requires a certain amount of planning, thinking in advance and picking an opponent 
 of your size. It's easy enough to amass a troop of 50-60 men and with a certain mod see a real 
 epic battle with you in command. 
  The faction interaction is incredible, ranging from relations with a single person to a village, 
 city and entire country. The game offers many options, which may seem bland (textwise) , but are 
 actually quite functional, once you know what they do. I'm a fan of realism, and rather than clicking 
 an icon: Send a gift, I'd go to a lady and fight for her honor. In return, she would help me win 
 over some other lords, by sending them gifts and such. In a way, many dialogs are of that nature. 
 
  There are also relations with your own heroes - units you can equip yourself and lever with great 
 detail. Not all of them get along together, and you will learn about it in a clever dialog interactions 
 between them - not one bit bland. 
  You can also rise to nobility of sort, swearing oath to a king of your choice and having a village 
 of your own and even a castle - there you can build your own upgrades and help your village rise 
 in prosperity. You can collect taxes from them, which can be very helpful during the game. 
  The quests are different and don't seem compulsive. If you dont' like the quest you take, fine 
 - don't do it. The quests are the means to an end, whether you want experience, reputation or cash, 
 you will choose quests you want. That way this game is miles ahead from those compulsively linear 
 games that flood the market every day.
  
  THE BAD
  Graphic. Still, if it was any better I doubt I could witness a battle of 400 solders on one battlefield. 
 Controls sometimes seem awkward and there is a certain amount of frustration to figuring out when 
 can you swing that axe or hurl that spear, because you may click as much as you want but your avatar 
 refuses to cooperate - still - even then, you'll find how easy it is to regain control and shoot 
 away. This is just a minor nuisance.
  
  THE UGLY
  No help system. The game, beside the manual, can be very user unfriendly. Although you can find 
 almost all the answers on the forums and PDF manuals online, it would be neat for a game with such 
 long learning curve to have some kind of help, besides the basic tutorial. Some things are also 
 confusing. For instance, when you capture an enemy general, you can't sell him to slavery or to 
 the ransom broker. After a while, you realize he is a "quest item", and that you could wait carrying 
 him around until that quest comes when you can give him to another noble to finish a quest. So 
 yeah, you learn as you go, and not many people like it.
  
  CONCLUSION
  As you can probably see, I'm not much of a reviewer, and there is still much unsaid. The mark of 
 10 is my personal mark, which is derived out of my own taste for everything that lacks the linearity 
 and structure. I hate being driven by story or a certain goal. I love roaming around, wondering. 
 I've played oblivion for more than 300 hours, never finishing the main quest. So in the end, it's 
 up to you to decide whether this bit of information was helpful or not. The final line is:
  
  This game is worth trying. Give it some time, have some patience and your rewards will come 
 in thousands...
  
  .. of denars :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mERCY00
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 23, 2008 12:26 am PT
Review:  Mount and Blade is a very good RPG with a lot of action, open-ended game-play, and re-playability. 
 There are many different ways to play the game. It is addicting and immersing. You can use almost 
 any kind of weapon and have a lot of skills to choose from. The game gets better as your character 
 gains levels. There are Heroes in the game that can join your party and they each have names and 
 personalities. You can recruit a wide range of regular soldiers too. The character customization 
 at the beginning of the game allows you to create a really unique history and look of your character. 
 At any time in the game, you can change the way you and the people you recruit look. The combat 
 is original and fun. Horses are cool and easy to use. There are many different kinds of items, 
 horses, armor, and weapons to buy. The four different factions you can fight for are cool and have 
 their own kinds of warriors. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GhostWolf7
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 23, 2008 4:39 pm PT
Review:  The best way to describe Mount and Blade is as a combination of Sid Meier's Pirates! (a cited source 
 of inspiration by the developer) , Medieval 2: Total War, a splash of surprisingly deep rpg elements, 
 and an innovative, fun, and realistic system for both mounted and unmounted combat.
  
  The game begins with a robust character creation system that has plenty of sliders to create a 
 face and asks the player a series of multiple-choice questions to determine his or her background 
 and starting stats. As you level, there are several dozen skills to chose from to upgrade your 
 character, from looting to tactics to horse archery to trade. There is also a nice tutorial for 
 the player to learn the basics. It's essential: the combat is unlike that in any game you've played 
 before.
  
  In Mount and Blade, you fight in real time using the mouse and keyboard similar to (dare I say 
 it) Oblivion (sigh) . Specifically, movement both mounted and on foot is controlled with the standard 
 WASD configuration, while the right mouse button is used to attack, the left to block, and the 
 mouse itself controls the direction the character is facing. When you attack in melee, the direction 
 in which you swing your weapon is determined among four (Up, Right, Left, and Center) by the direction 
 you're turning your upper body (via the mouse) at the time you click. Blocking is more automatic. 
 When you click the left button, your character will raise their weapon to automatically protect 
 the side the closest enemy is preparing to attack. If equipped with a shield, the character will 
 raise that instead, which protects against all directional attacks from from an enemy in front 
 of you (but only where it covers the character's body) and will also block arrows and thrown weapons 
 (again, only where it covers the character's body) . However, a shield, unlike a weapon, will eventually 
 break in the character's hands if it takes too much damage (though it isn't destroyed permanently, 
 just for the battle) .
  
  Speaking of damage, this feature is arguably M&B's most innovative feature: the damage you deal 
 to an enemy (and them to you) is determined NOT by random die rolls but by the speed at which the 
 weapon contacts the enemy. A Horseman swinging an axe and charging towards a stationary spearman 
 will deal MUCH more damage to that enemy (and interestingly, that enemy to them) than that spearman 
 will deal to the back of the horseman as they charge by (the latter having missed their target) . 
 Enemies will generally go down in 1 to 4 hits from a mounted character, depending on the weapon.
 
  
  Missing an enemy with your swing while mounted is not uncommon. Again, hits and misses are not 
 determined by random die rolls but by player timing and positioning. That is, when fighting mounted 
 the character wants to orient their horse and body so they can hit the enemy at the perfect moment, 
 a situation that varies greatly depending on the weapon being used. A character with a spear/other 
 polearm wants to charge the enemy essentially head on, with perhaps a slight deviation to the right 
 or left, because an attack with a polearm generally involves "stabbing". However, if the character 
 misses the timing, the strike will hit only air, meaning that the player may simply pass or trample 
 the enemy (trampling deals minor damage and may knock the opponent over) at best or at worst get 
 hit by the enemy's swing or even have their horse rear up (rendering them stationary for a few 
 seconds) . Horses take damage independently of anyone riding them, and an awesome animation accompanies 
 the action of a rider having his horse killed beneath him as ragdoll physics go to work.
  
  Ranged combat is also robust, with a simple crosshair system that varies slightly between three 
 ranged weapon types: Bows, Crossbows, and Thrown Weapons. Bows are quick to reload, but as the 
 character holds the bow drawn, the crosshair becomes wider and thus the shot less accurate when 
 the arrow is released. Crossbows are slow to reload and many can't be reloaded on horseback, but 
 they are much easier to aim with as they don't become less accurate if they are held drawn. Thrown 
 weapons have much less range and accuracy than the other two types, but deal more damage and can 
 be used with a shield.
  
  Beyond combat, the open world environment works much like that in Pirates!, with 5 different factions 
 who play very differently from each other, and the player can choose to sign with one if they wish. 
 Quests are a mixed bag. In M&B they are gathered from nobles who have fiefs within each faction. 
 The run-of-the-mill quests are fun at first but get repetitive after a while. On the other hand, 
 a character can begin a civil war by declaring their support for a rival claimant for one of the 
 faction thrones, once they get to a higher level, one of the better quests. 
  
  By gaining renown and leveling, a character can begin to grow their party, which starts usually 
 as small as 15 and can grow to over 1000 (I believe, the max I've had has been 350, but I've seen 
 lords wandering around with more) . Most of these men will be soldiers who will fight alongside 
 (or against) the character in battles of up to 100 combatants at a time (the remaining troops come 
 in as reinforcements during the battle) . These battles are some of the most epic in video games, 
 not purely because of their scope but because of the active role the player has in them and the 
 feeling of being truly in the action. Some of the best battles come from sieges, though the player 
 will want to wait until they have at least 100 men to attempt one.
  
  There's so much more to mount and blade, but talking about has made me really want to play it, 
 so I'll end here with the message to try it for yourself. The .960 beta is available here on Gamespot 
 and while it's not quite at the level of the 1.0 release version, it has all the basic mechanics 
 to let people see what M&B is all about.
  
  FOR SWADIA!
  
  
  Edit: Hey Gamespot, once upon a time you reviewed a game like this. IT WAS CALLED SID MEIER'S PIRATES 
 AND YOU GAVE IT A 9.2.
  
  Sorry, I just read Gamespot's official review, and I have to say that giving the game the "weak 
 story" icon is fair... except that the story isn't a main part of the game, like the icon's description 
 says. Also, Pirates! also has almost no story. They gave it a 9.2. As for the weak quests, clearly 
 the reviewer had yet to discover the civil war quest I mentioned earlier. Pirates! had no civil 
 war option. They gave it a 9.2. THEY ALSO FAILED TO MENTION MOUNTED COMBAT, ARGUABLY THE GAME'S 
 BIGGEST COMPONENT, which I find suspicious and unnerving. Pirates! had ship to ship duels and weak 
 sieges. They gave it a 9.2. Nor did they mention heroes (though, to be fair, neither did I) . 
 
  
  The comments about the graphics and art however, are completely fair and I can't wait to see how 
 Taleworlds and the M&B community help them reach their full potential.
  
  Also, with version 1.003, I haven't seen a single bug.
  
  It's amazing what money can buy these 
 days.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tao_Jones
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 22, 2008 10:52 pm PT
Review:  Ok, so I lied about my first review being my only one. But again, this is another game that is 
 received marks much lower than it deserves from gamespot, in my opinion. I really 'did' want to 
 give this game a 9 or so just because of how much I enjoy it, but it does have it's weak points. 
 And I'm sure there's more than enough fanboys giving it 10's to balance it out. Lets get to it, 
 shall we?
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Excellent. 
  
  At the core, the controls walk a fine balance of having depth and precision without being unintuitive. 
 Directional attacks, blocks and parries are all player controlled (or you can tweak the options 
 to make it slightly more streamlined) . You and your mount control independently of each other, 
 and one thing that really sold me was how flawlessly the controls work when playing as a mounted 
 archer. It just works well, and I hope all the big time developers are taking notes.
  
  Meanwhile, there is a well rounded RPG skill system running under the hood. Along with the now 
 requisite slider-based face maker, you have the ability to craft your character in many different 
 ways.
  
  Once you create your avatar, the game basically just drops you down on your lonesome in the middle 
 of the game world. There 'is' a tutorial that will familiarize you with most of the combat mechanics, 
 but little else, so at first this may seem intimidating since you don't have a particularly good 
 idea of what exactly you're supposed to do next. Since I tend to gravitate towards non-linear gameplay 
 in general, this wasn't an immense issue for me. After recruiting a few tribesmen in a handful 
 of towns, I was raiding towns and robbing caravans in distant territories until the wee hours of 
 the night. It really is to the game's detriment that it doesn't outline a lot of the content for 
 the players; there's a large amount that's tucked away here and there that you don't really expect 
 to find, besides the tedium of most of the "quests". Bottom line being that, yes, this is "your" 
 story of conquest and "no" the game will not hold your hand while going about it or even offering 
 any words of advice. You basically just have to "go" and hope for the best.
  
  The game world progresses at it's accord. Cities will be taken or defended even if you don't have 
 a hand in it, and it's at your leisure that you choose a faction to affiliate yourself with, should 
 you choose to at all. There's a working economy within the game world so, if you like, you can 
 beef up your trade skill and run trade routes for hours or days if that's your thing.
  
  Besides your own character there are other "hero" characters in the game world that can be found 
 in taverns and recruited. These other hero characters gain xp and level the same as your character 
 does, and you have complete control over how their skills are distributed once you hire them, as 
 well as what they're equipped with.
  
  There's also a decent reputation system that comes into play the most within your own faction. 
 If you're steamrolling over the enemy time after time, your standing within the faction rises, 
 and the other general may put your name forward as becoming the Marshall, which basically grants 
 you the ability to control where all of the other armies in your faction go and what they do, enabling 
 you to broaden your strategy on the world map.
  
  Graphics:
  
  Below Average.
  
  The area that the game is most lacking in. In some cases they do an adequate job. In other cases 
 it's extremely noticeable in how aged it appears. The upside to this is that low end systems should 
 have no issues running this game. I must say though that the rag doll physics work surprisingly 
 good, especially when you slay someone on horseback and they topple over the flanks convincingly.
 
  
  Sound:
  
  Average.
  
  Most of the sound effects sound spot on. Although nothing spectacular, more often than not the 
 sound effects lend towards the action instead detract from it. There are a few misfires here and 
 there, but they're usually overshadowed when you notice how effing sweet the horse gallop sounds 
 when your sword is cutting through some fleeing footman you just rode down.
  
  Bottom Line:
  
  If you're searching for an open-ended, realistic, medieval combat/strategy 
 game with a fair amount of depth and can overlook a sub-par graphics engine, then look no further. 
 This game is for you. If you're looking for a hack and slash with high speed graphics then you'll 
 probably be disappointed.
  
  It should be noted that the fan base that developed during beta is extremely dedicated and have 
 already produced a dozen or so mods for the release version, with many, many, many more to follow 
 I'm sure. I wouldn't be surprised if the community itself polished and/or added needed features 
 in the near future.
  
  Hope this review was helpful to you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: morganja
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 22, 2008 10:12 pm PT
Review:  This really is a great game. If you read the review posted here one gets the impression that it 
 is a bad game. But read carefully and its easy to see that he simply was expecting another version 
 of Oblivion. It isn't, it's different and is amazingly fun and addictive. Try the demo and see 
 for yourself. Especially if you think adventure is finding a world and deciding what to do with 
 it instead of expecting to be guided through like an already written book. I've had nothing but 
 a great time thinking about and then implementing my strategies. Creating your army out of all 
 the different options available, training them and preparing for battles is a blast. Check out 
 their forums for all the strategies and tactics necessary to win consistently against various opponents. 
 The reviewer here claimed that charge was the only option. No wonder he was getting tortured. Setting 
 up shield walls against cavalry charges, archers and crossbowmen against horse archers, pinning 
 heavy infantry to their front and then charging horsemen into their exposed flanks, all of it is 
 so engaging and fun as well as educational. Its a game that requires you to think and imagine. 
 It's a blast and I highly recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jefmlrjudo
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 22, 2008 9:15 am PT
Review:  Have you noticed that most games that try to do too much (that is, try to be several different 
 types of games at one time) tend to be overly busy and don't do any of them well. Mount & Blade 
 has a strong action RPG base, combines this with a first person strategy/squad/shooter component, 
 and then adds the mounted combat (which is phenomenally done) and delivers an addictive, fun and 
 fairly easy to learn.
  
  The graphics are not cutting edge, but the physics seem to work well. In fact, the accuracy required 
 for, and practical effects of, combat seems a lot more realistic than many of the high end First 
 Person Shooters. Examples: Hitting a moving target with a bow and arrow is HARD; Hitting a moving 
 target with a bow and arrow while moving (especially from the back of a horse) is VERY HARD; The 
 faster your horse is moving, the harder it is to turn; Hitting someone, or getting hit by someone, 
 while moving towards them increases the damage, especially from the back of a moving horse.
  
  On the negatives, there is no real plot other than what you make of it (which may not be a 
 negative to many people) . You also get to have NPC' in your "army", but, in many ways are more 
 like the "heroes" in some of the old fantasy RTS games, but you don't get a lot of interaction 
 with or because of them. Basically, they are more like elite troops than NPC's in a true RPG. 
 
  
  The simplicity of the interface does have some negative feedback. There is no voice acting. I'm 
 not sure if the game would be that much better with it, but it would have been nice to see. The 
 quests are all simple, and there are no intricate plots. Also, the interface, while simple to use, 
 are difficult to transition in and out of. For example, "leveling up" your NPCS and/or changing 
 their equipment takes a lot of getting down to submenus, and then getting back up to the main menu. 
 I expect that when the game gets more popular, there will be more and more mods which streamline 
 the interface a bit more.
  
  If you like gaming, especially RPG, RTS, FPS, then you will like this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: smellyfeetbob
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 22, 2008 6:17 am PT
Review:  I am not a big RPG fan but I got this game from Direct2Drive a couple days ago and I've been playing 
 it non-stop since. I have put in about 40 hours so far and it is still like the game just started. 
 I like the fact that you can jump right in and start playing this game but it will take weeks for 
 you to really master anything about it. This game is a whole lot of fun with tremendous replay 
 value. No game will ever be the same as the last. It has major strategic elements I love. The game 
 is not easy with difficulty setting on normal. I didnt read the instructions or anything and just 
 jumped into playing and am having a great time. No glitches bugs or problems found yet. I give 
 it 9.5 instead of 10 cause the graphics could be better but they aren't that bad. I would spend 
 my $29.99 on this game again if I had the choice because this is one of those you can play for 
 years to come from your collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hvypetals
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 22, 2008 6:07 am PT
Review:  This reminds me of the old school PC games where devs made the most out of the little they had 
 to work with.
  
  When i first dl'ed the demo I was like, "man this sucks. the graphics are lame."
  
  but 10 
 hours later im drooling to play again after "breaking night" and going straight into work having 
 played all night.
  
  the game is vast, and you can do a lot of very cool stuff like burning villages, fighting seige 
 battles, running over guys with your horse, it has rpg elements, its bloody, its painful and ITS 
 JUST PLAIN FUN!! WOW! They captured the spirit of chopping people down from horseback better than 
 any game ever.
  
  the sheer volume of weapon types, spears javelins, throwin axes, swords, hammers, maces. with bodies 
 set to unlimited, large battles can leave a huge amount of dead guys on the battlefield. what more 
 can you want?
  
  not to mention the forums on the game sight have everything you can possibly want to know. And 
 mods TOO!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ringeck
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 22, 2008 1:28 am PT
Review:  Having bought this game at a time when you could get a beta key for the price of a chocolade bar 
 (hey, I lived i Norway then, where chocolade bars indeed can cost 8 dollars or more) and having 
 followed the different semi-open beta incarnations eagerly, I am hardly an unbiased reviewer. I 
 may also not be your average RPG player - although if M&B ends up being influental, I may well 
 become one.
  
  When RPG games first started appearing on computers (I played the first Bard's Tale on the C64) 
 I was somewhat at a loss on how to react to them. Having played plenty of pen-and-paper roleplaying 
 games before, I found that RPG computer games were hardly the same cup of tea; the games were, 
 probably out of necessity, only superficially similar to p&p RPGs - scripted games that, besides 
 the rules sets and setting, bore more resemblance to PC "Adventure" games (which I always liked, 
 long live Sierra) than p&p RPGs; there was no real freedom in the games. Even as the genre evolved 
 and "sandbox" rpgs started appearing, I was disappointed - the sandbox element was often rather 
 weak, all things considered, unless you count uninteresting side quests and a lot of random slaying 
 interesting.
  
  M&B is all about sandbox. While I admit more of a storyline would be appreciated, the indie production 
 made that difficult and I am glad Armagan and his crew focused on the playability and freedom of 
 the game rather than attempting at doing both that and a storyline - both elements would probably 
 have suffered as a result. As it is, you have a lot of freedom and can pursue a number of interesting 
 career paths - although in the end, it tends to gravitate toward joining a faction and fighting 
 for its expansion. Building your character up as a noble lord in the world of Calradia is always 
 a challenge, even on the lower difficult settings: there is always a bigger fish somewhere who 
 can crush your household troops and joining the larger national army is not always a guarantee 
 for having superior numbers or quality.
  
  M&B is also all about the combat engine, which I suspect - and hope - will be what this game transfers 
 into the future of RPGs. Oblivion, Gothic, the lot of other real-time RPG combat systems - they've 
 got nothing on this combat engine, which, completely devoid of any fantasy elements, spells, or 
 wacky engineering (while many would want historical artillery on the battlefield, it was hardly 
 something one saw extensively outside sieges) - just plain old high/late medieval weapons, armour 
 and horses - manages to be the most interesting and addictive computer game 1st perspective combat 
 system I've ever played. Other developers will hopefully learn from M&B's puristic, "realistic" 
 approach to RPG combat. The horsemanship elements alone are ground-breaking and really give a feel 
 for the use of cavalry on premodern battlefields - lone or loosely formed infantry really suffer 
 from the depratations of roving heavy cavalry. The big complaint element is probably the orders 
 system, which could have benefited from being more complex - cavalry is probably more efficient 
 than it was in real history, since the infantry has problems closing ranks in larger groups, which 
 historically was a real deterrant to cavalry attack.
  
  The graphics and sound are so-so, as could be expected by an indie developer. However, I am not 
 a pixel whore and have always felt that beautiful visuals and music/effects, while always appreciated, 
 cannot compensate for good gameplay, so it isn't something that I weight when rating games.
  
  There are elements of the game that I would like to see improved. The command and control could 
 be better. Sieges and storming castles and cities could boast more options, although fighting your 
 way down from the walls of a fortress alongside your men is always a great deal of fun - as is 
 a desperate defense against a storming army of besiegers. Overall, however, M&B gets 9,5 out of 
 10 for me - this game just might be the start of something really good for RPGs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ollieh
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 21, 2008 9:00 pm PT
Review:  If you consider yourself a gamer and haven't tried this one, shame on you. This game should be 
 on the collection of any self respecting gamer.
  Mount&Blade might not have the graphics of Crysis, but the game play whoops any other game of the 
 board. I've taken part, like many others, in the beta testing of this game for around 2 years or 
 so and still absolutely love playing the game. The only game that I still feel like picking up 
 and playing even though I've had it for a long time is Mount&Blade.
  The game shines through its combat system, four way attacks, blocking, horse combat, awesome archery 
 and physics system that takes speed into consideration when attacking. The recruiting of lower 
 rank soldiers and training them is also just plain fun.
  There are so many things that are awesome in the game so you should just try it. Also give a try 
 to the mods as they are updated to the newest version, especially TLD. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thingta42
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 21, 2008 6:09 pm PT
Review:  War is at Calradia and five five militarized factions: The Swadians, The Rhodoks, The Vaegirs, 
 The Khergits, and The Nords All at war with each other for control over Calradia. The player takes 
 in control of a unkown hero that rises up from the ground from a simple blacksmith seeking revenge 
 to a sqire seeking money and fame.
  
  or basicly what you make it thanks to its impressive character creation that allows you to add 
 a back story and change the characters face to your liking. After you gone through that you are 
 placed in a mid-ist of the land where you will make a name for your self. In this land you are 
 pretty much entitled to go about doing what you want i. e raiding Vilages for cattle, or Hireing 
 villages to rise up a armie. And the game does this right becuase you get griped on making a armie 
 up to fight people because the Combat in Mount & Blade feels right.
  
  you only start out having minor skirmishes aginst bandits but as you level up and get money you 
 buy all new armour and weapons and the scales of the battles are pretty good. You only have 4 attack 
 directions (Like Oblivion) but it works very well in this game better than it does in oblivion Because 
 mount & Blade has alot of hidden mechanics that make it so the speed of the weapon and such is 
 the factor and so is a bunch of other stuff. Insted of just having the weapon with the highest 
 Damage.
  
  The gameplay has a few niggles Sieges can sometimes be silly when everyone have to climb one ladder 
 to scale the walls. would of been better to have more but i guess theres room for improvent in 
 a Sequel or somthing.
  
  The Sound in mount & blade is fantstic the music for each fraction really sounds nice and is plesent 
 to listen to and has greatly improved since the Beta. From victory music to the map music when 
 you are roaming around. You can tell alot of work went into making this game sound fantastic. The 
 same cant be sied for its grahpics they are kind of out dated however it really doesnt matter since 
 this is a Indi game and for a Indi game the grahpics are good. the Buildings and castles etc however 
 do look good that is one thing i must add.
  
  the Game also focuses on Mounted combat but that doesnt say you cant make your character into a 
 outstanding foot archer or a knight. But mounted Combat is the highlight of this game. But anyway 
 in the End Mount & Blade is missing some things and might not be the kind of game a grahpic freak 
 would whana play however if your a casual gamer or just looking for a new Action/Rpg to play then 
 you will Surly like this game. As myself have lost hours over playing this fun and very Addictive 
 game.
  --------
  GRAHPICS: 5/10
  SOUND: 8/10
  GAMEPLAY 9/10
  --------
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: saggsett
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 20, 2008 5:14 pm PT
Review:  Revolutionary and epic. This game is extremely cool you make a character and set off into the world 
 of Calradia.
  This game offers months of roleplaying and freedom, being a fearsome warlord with alot of cities 
 towns and castles? ok, looting villages and attack caravans ? ok, become a vassal and serve your 
 king ? ok, it is incredible. The graphics may be extremely bad for a 08 game but whatever it will 
 offer more gameplay than Oblivion, Civilizations, Warhammer so on, for a long long long time :) 
 There is no main quest as far as I know, and that is why it is so great, alot of games don't offer 
 much roleplaying, but if you need roleplaying and freedom you have come to the right game :)
  
  
  Alot of RPGs have a main quest and a bunch of secondary ones. But here in M&B you can do 
 what you want, selling prisoners to a slave trader, Interacting with NPCs like Rolf and Lezalit. 
 But most importaint you can raise and army and obviosly you can battle other armies but the thing 
 is you are in the battle and that is why it is and RPG you controll yourself and cut down enemies.
 
  
  But, there are some bad things too. Like minor bugs it will sometimes be too hard, other times 
 to easy (of course if you want it hard or easy then it is okay right ?) But the most epic thing 
 is mods I mean like when it was in beta it was released multiple thousands mods but they are all 
 working on different versions of the beta so it will be nice with a final version. When you usually 
 start of the game you see how the graphics affect you because you stand in the world map, but give 
 it a chance and fight some bandit looters and it should be okay.
  
  Head over to the Mount and Blade homepage and check it out, visit the forum and I'll see you there, 
 (google it) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: furryfrump
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 20, 2008 8:45 am PT
Review:  
  Firstly the graphics are average, for instance there isn't an amazing weather system: no wind, clouds 
 don't move etc. But it makes up for this with great sky textures, amazing sun glare and weather 
 effecting your character, e. g rain slows you down. 
  
  The animations are also very good, with several different death animations such as falling to their 
 knees, then collapsing to the ground. 
  
  Combat it self is the best part of the game, as you can fight ether on foot or mounted, use a variety 
 of different weapons all with strengths and weaknesses e. g axes do extra damage against shields, 
 but have a lower weapon reach) Combat also features realistic physics as when you hit them in the 
 shoulder, their shoulder rolls back, when you hit them in the feet they will generally collapse 
 to the floor. 
  
  In the game you also get to command an army that starts off as a butch of roar recruits, but after 
 several sparring sessions and battles they will become a group of highly skilled killing machines. 
 
  
  Chargen is also good, as you pick what your father was, what you did as a child, a young man and 
 as an adult. All these choices change your starting stats and equipment. Forget to mention but 
 you can be both a man or a woman. 
  
  So there we are the greatest RPG ever created, mount and blade (which was made by a husband and 
 wife team in turkey) 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JPokes
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 19, 2008 9:21 pm PT
Review:  The gameplay of mount and blade is fairly simple. You start in the middle of the world all by your 
 lonesome. You then travel between the different towns and kingdoms as a mercenary capatain/raider 
 depending on how you play. There are random parties from the different factions as well as many 
 looters and bandits roaming around the map. You recruit troops from the different realms, and then 
 train them into a fearsome fighting force. 
  You can harass trading caravans, kill looters and bandits, or become a mercenary company for one 
 of the factions. Eventually you can even pledge an oath of fealty to one of the kings and become 
 his vassal. You will be able to draw income from your little plot of land, and then have the opportunity 
 to take more castles in the name of your king with the chance that it will be awarded to you to 
 earn money from. 
  You don't have to do any of this or you can do all of it. It's your choice how you want to play. 
 
  The main part of the fun is the combat. You are the leader of your troops and can play from either 
 a first or third person perspective. You can give rudimentary orders to your troops like hold ground, 
 charge, or follow me. You can give individual orders to different troop types as well (infantry 
 stand ground, cavalry charge, etc.) The combat is a blast, especially because it is one of the 
 only games to incorporate mounted combat. It is a blast to charge through enemy ranks on an armored 
 horse, slashing down at the filthy peasants and wading through a torrent of bloood!!! ARRRGGHH!! 
 Err sorry.
  
  That being said, the game is not without flaws. Siege combat is more polished now but is still 
 a bit wonky. In sieges you get one ladder/siege tower to assault the walls and that it. It sometimes 
 reminds me of that scene in Pink Floyd's "The Wall" where the children are walking off a conveyor 
 belt into the giant meat grinder. 
  
  Secondly, once you reach around mid game or so, everything is just too easy. There is no real challenge. 
 Even the parties of other lords will only be able to best you with at least DOUBLE the men you 
 have if not more like needing the odds to be 3 to 1 in their favor. The problem is by then you 
 have elite troops and most of the time lords only have mid level troops at best. Also once you 
 get to this point the bandits and other lesser threats are no longer even worth your time. They 
 are no challenge at all, and not to mention the loot they drop is not worth the fight either. This 
 is a HUGE minus for me, I don't get any fun out of it with no challenge. The siege battles are 
 not easy but they aren't interesting enough to make up for the incredibly easy combat. 
  
  Lastly a more minor gripe is the raw power of the more worthwhile horses in the game. Once you 
 are able to afford a warhorse, you can charge through enemy infantry like they were cardboard cutouts. 
 The only time your horse will be stopped is when you are going very slow when running into a foe. 
 At full gallop it seems like nothing can stop you. You will only be stopped if you run into a crowd 
 of enemies ten deep or if there are friendly troops mixed into a crowd, since you will always be 
 stopped cold by your own troops instead of running them over. This means that if you maintain momentum 
 and have even just a modicum of skill you can feel indestructible. 
  Add in the facts that there are no voiceovers, no story to speak of, and somewhat dated graphics, 
 which all detract from my overall score, but not much. 
  
  Fans of the game who have been playing the betas for a long time will tell you to turn up the difficulty 
 or try some mods. Well I play on the hardest difficulty and it is not that hard. And the mods do 
 help of course, but a game should not just be able to fall back on mods. I like vanilla mount and 
 blade, I don't want to play mods. The game would just be better overall if it were more challenging. 
 
  
  In the end this is game is great fun, big points for originality and fun factor, but you may grow 
 bored quickly if you are looking for a real challenge. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mrpody
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 19, 2008 9:13 pm PT
Review:  This game is all its cracked up to be. The graphics are not the best, and compaired to a game like 
 Oblivion they suck. But this game is still amazing. I have waited a long time for a game like this 
 one to come out. At times things can be frustrating, but this game is in no way too easy. I cant 
 stop playing it cause its too much fun. Youcould spend up to 100 hours on this game if you take 
 your time and dont rush through it. Its not easy to make alot of money unless you enter the tournaments 
 and keep placing bets on yourself. Now the difficulty of this game is just about right but at times 
 it can be hard. For example, you could be on level 30, with the best armor, and still get knocked 
 out by about 50 farmers (which they just use tools to attack you with) .
  
  Overall this is a great game. If you have a decent computer that can handle this game, you should 
 get this game. But if you are expecting the graphics to be great like the ps3 or xbox 360, then 
 your wrong. And if you have to have perfect graphics, then dont get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doggywolf2
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 19, 2008 7:45 pm PT
Review:  Mount and blade is the greatest game I think in gaming history, yes it does have a few glitches 
 and the graphics are not perfect but it makes up for it with game play that can last years, and 
 not get boring, and a modding community that will sustain your gaming hunger for years after, honestly 
 i believe that if this game is noticed it will change the gaming industry forever. Also, for those 
 who see people saying that the game is to easy, that's because they do not know how to go to a 
 options menu. Also if you are looking for a game with great online multilayer, I am sorry to say 
 this is not it, but there are other indie games for that like Darkfall online so please try it 
 and then judge it for yourself. And remember if you want games sprout from Mount and blade, just 
 look at mbrepository. com and you can see just how many options there are.
  And Thank you, Armagan (Taleworlds lead designer) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ekent82
Rating: 3.5
Date: Sep 19, 2008 10:52 am PT
Review:  What a cool concept. Play as a mercenary captain from the medieval times in a fantasy world, build 
 up your band of swordsmen, calvary and archers, then hire yourself out to whoever you wish. Do 
 missions for kings and lords, own towns and castles and influence politics.
  
  If it wasn't for the capricious mechanics of everything you do, that is. There is no part of the 
 game that doesn't have the potential to be frustrating, and many parts, like the tournaments, only 
 serve to piss you off. Unit AI is very poor, such that it is easy to game enemies by confusing 
 them into breaking formation, and the developers clearly overcompensated for this by adding cheesy 
 mechanics so that you had a harder time at it. The controls are finicky, whether you aim in the 
 direction you're looking at is a matter of chance. The physics seem random: at times you will plow 
 through an enemy formation on your horse, knocking them down and doing charge damage, while other 
 times your horse will stop dead, without doing any damage, leaving you at the mercy of the enemy 
 who now surrounds you.
  
  The only way to avoid the random nature of these poorly programed "features" is to save, often. 
 Before you do anything. And then load and retry it. That's not a fun way to play a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mortaleclipse
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 17, 2008 11:41 pm PT
Review:  After downloading the game and firing it up it took me a minute to grasp the graphics of the game. 
 I read many players saying graphics are dated and this is very true. With some blocky map graphics 
 right off the bat I wasnt sure how I could handle it but after about 30 minutes it came. 
  You start the game off with making your hero with background info and facial looks with finally 
 adding your stats to him. Pretty standard RPG stuff then it tosses you into trainer who shows you 
 how to sword fight, shoot, and horse ride. 
  After learning those things you are off on your own with no real direction. Kinda have to just 
 decide what you feal like doing. What I personally did was move to a small town and recruited a 
 couple farmers to go fight some bandits. I mean of course I want some action to see what this game 
 is made of. Its kinda like Total war were you got a map and you move your guy around and once you 
 get into combat you get thrown into the fights. Fighting is so much fun, the battle can get intense. 
 The horse back riding and fighting is kinda hard but very fun.
  
  This is a great game and well worth the 29.99 I spent on it. Im sure I wont play is 24/7 but it 
 will be a title I can enjoy for a very long period of time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ah_5700
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 17, 2008 8:22 pm PT
Review:  Put simply, Mount&Blade brings back everything fun that has been missing in games in the last decade. 
 Created by a husband and wife team, who have created a masterpiece. M&B doesn't have the fancy 
 Crysis graphics (although it has very good graphics in my opinion) , M&B brings you the "FUN" factor. 
 It brings you the things that keep you coming back to a game. It gives you options, like an old 
 school RPG, but M&B is more than that. It's traditionally a medieval battle simulator, where you 
 have the freedom of choice to take over castles, towns, and cities.
  
  You start off with a small band of men and as you progress and win battles, you level up your character 
 and become stronger. You can recruit heroes into your party that have minds of their own where 
 you can outfit them with different equipment. You can join a faction and war other factions in 
 the game, taking over their castles and cities. Issue commands to your troops, and overall direct 
 which route you want to train them. Want them to be an archer? Or a foot-soldier? You decide.
 
  
  M&B gives you the most freedom that you would want in a game. Don't like how long its taking to 
 level up your character? Export your charaters data, edit your characters attributes in notepad, 
 save it, and then export it back into the game. Sure an easy way to cheat, but if you want to increase 
 that "archery skill" just a little, you have that option to do so. That is the freedom that is 
 M&B.
  
  Actually deciding to play the game with all damage options on, etc. you will find that the game 
 is really quite hard. Especially taking on castles and as you progress even further into the game, 
 enemy hero units (princes, kings of other factions hero units, etc) gather more troops to their 
 cause, which makes the battles very interesting.
  
  In combat, you need to use strategy to defeat your foes. Each faction has different units. Khergits 
 for example have a lot of horse archers, where as the Nords have heavy infantry foot soldiers. 
 Use the terrain to your advantage. Draw mounted units into a ravine where theres a stream causing 
 them to slow down their charges, where your infantry can make short work of them. Station your 
 units inbetween trees to cover yourself from enemy archers.
  
  Mount&Blade is revolutionary in terms of gameplay, and game developer Taleworlds is going to change 
 the face of the gaming industry.
  
  M&B deserves a 10+ for creating the greatest mouted combat in any game. For bring back the old 
 school genre. For listening to and responding to questions regarding the game, and actually inputting 
 in new ideas into the game that people have suggested on the forums. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stileche
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 13, 2008 12:10 am PT
Review:  I saw the reviews for this game today and downloaded the demo as suggested. One hour later I was 
 putting in my credit card information as there was no way I could stop playing!
  
  The demo will definitely give you a feel for the game, so please try it with no questions asked. 
 
  
  The only reason that I have taken off 0,5 points is for the graphics, although it could also be 
 left on as the not so demanding specs mean that everyone can play. 
  
  Apart from that, I cant do anything but repeat what people have said, that this game is old school 
 in feeling but leaves you a complete open world to dominate however you see fit. It can be said 
 that its probably the most realistic game that I have played, since it parallels what reality would 
 be like in a medieval situation. 
  
  I paid 25 Euros and this will most likely be one of the best value games that I have ever bought.
 
  
  EDIT: After seeing the free mods which are also available, I have to say the continued play value 
 of this game has gone up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aghatio
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 18, 2008 10:45 am PT
Review:  This game is seriously one of the most addictive game I ever played in my life. The combat system 
 is really what other games in the past were missing. When you play this game on a higher difficulty, 
 the battlefield really depends on your order and your skills. It really makes the difference. Plus 
 the mod community are active and are constantly making new mods, up to 400 mods already! And the 
 game has been just released. People will whine about graphics.. But hey at least this game can 
 be enjoyed in the most computers and plus you want better graphics? There are ton graphic enchancer 
 in the mods section. To think this game started by two person only. Imagine if it was any other 
 big team like Bethesa.. I cant imagine.
  
  Pros
  -Addictive gameplay
  -variety of role playing style
  -Skills that kills, yup this game is actually hard to master
 
  -amazing mounted fighting
  -Ton of mods to play ex (ancient greece, hundred year war, lord of the ring and even other senario 
 created
  
  Cons
  -Music can get sometime repetitive, But hey you can put your own music
  -Repetitive quest
  
 
  Try it out. Like me at first I really didnt like this game because of the graphic. But oh boy was 
 I wrong, started to play the demo and was instantly hooked to the game. Just Can't Stop Playing 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GyspyDevil
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 25, 2008 10:38 am PT
Review:  If you are a graphics slut you will nit pick this game to death. If you are a gameplay slut you 
 will love this game to death.
  
  
  Honestly I put the graphics at HD, full AA, bump mapping, and native looks great. Some of the Mods 
 make them even better.
  
  
  That aside, this is a full open world medieval simulation. The world is in constant flux and you 
 can choose your place in it. From honorable knight to bandit lord, to humble vassal of a king, 
 to conqueror. 
  
  The combat is fantastic. Not perfect, but the some of the most realistic I've played and very flexable. 
 You want to be a viking? a Knight? a barbarian? an archer? crossbow man? Spears, swords, knives, 
 rocks, axes, lances, halbreds, short swords, two handed swords, maces, blah, blah
  
  
  Combat is well designed with directional attacks and blocks. tactical advantages, and different 
 uses/strategies for different weapons.
  
  Open plains battles, mountain battles, river battles, town battles, full on fort and castle seiges.
 
  
  Game looks dated, but I can't stop playing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AviticusDSS
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 15, 2008 2:09 pm PT
Review:  Put simply, Mount&Blade brings back everything fun that has been missing in games in the last decade. 
 Created by a husband and wife team, who have created a masterpiece. M&B doesn't have the fancy 
 Crysis graphics (although it has very good graphics in my opinion) , M&B brings you the "FUN" factor. 
 It brings you the things that keep you coming back to a game. It gives you options, like an old 
 school RPG, but M&B is more than that. It's traditionally a medieval battle simulator, where you 
 have the freedom of choice to take over castles, towns, and cities. 
  
  You start off with a small band of men and as you progress and win battles, you level up your character 
 and become stronger. You can recruit heroes into your party that have minds of their own where 
 you can outfit them with different equipment. You can join a faction and war other factions in 
 the game, taking over their castles and cities. Issue commands to your troops, and overall direct 
 which route you want to train them. Want them to be an archer? Or a foot-soldier? You decide.
 
  
  M&B gives you the most freedom that you would want in a game. Don't like how long its taking to 
 level up your character? Export your charaters data, edit your characters attributes in notepad, 
 save it, and then export it back into the game. Sure an easy way to cheat, but if you want to increase 
 that "archery skill" just a little, you have that option to do so. That is the freedom that is 
 M&B.
  
  Actually deciding to play the game with all damage options on, etc. you will find that the game 
 is really quite hard. Especially taking on castles and as you progress even further into the game, 
 enemy hero units (princes, kings of other factions hero units, etc) gather more troops to their 
 cause, which makes the battles very interesting.
  
  In combat, you need to use strategy to defeat your foes. Each faction has different units. Khergits 
 for example have a lot of horse archers, where as the Nords have heavy infantry foot soldiers. 
 Use the terrain to your advantage. Draw mounted units into a ravine where theres a stream causing 
 them to slow down their charges, where your infantry can make short work of them. Station your 
 units inbetween trees to cover yourself from enemy archers.
  
  Mount&Blade is revolutionary in terms of gameplay, and game developer Taleworlds is going to change 
 the face of the gaming industry.
  
  M&B deserves a 10+ for creating the greatest mouted combat in any game. For bring back the old 
 school genre. For listening to and responding to questions regarding the game, and actually inputting 
 in new ideas into the game that people have suggested on the forums. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jamie_r
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 12, 2008 9:52 pm PT
Review:  Mount & Blade is simply one of the best games ever made. Games like Oblivion and WOW brag about 
 their mounts but nothing compares to the horses in mount & blade. M&B has all a RPG fan could ever 
 hope for, Horse Combat, Castle sieges and battles with dozens of men being slaughtered. It does 
 not get any better than that.
  And some great news it is due for final release in Q2 08. It is so great already but now it is 
 going to be better with the final version you can expect so much more, Operating siege weapons, 
 destructible castle walls oh and sooooo much more i just cant wait. www. taleworlds. com
  
  Good Points:
  Horse combat
  massive battles
  castle sieges
  Fun
  A great modding community 
 
  Bad points:
  Have no time for homework. 
  It tends to get a tad boring after hours of play
  so go to www. mbrepository. com to download mods 
 for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cyberdarkkid
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 7, 2008 7:33 pm PT
Review:  Mount&Blade takes place back in medieval times in a land called Calradia. Now even though the game 
 is not yet complete and it is still in it's beta version it is a very revolutionary game and "surprisingly 
 good "because it was developed by a Turkish couple. The game counts with horses, weapons shields, 
 food, party, factions, pirates, bandits, and many other stuff from medieval Europe. The game does 
 not count with a story because a storyline would limit the fun, however there are tasks that you 
 can do to earn money and befriend towns. The game is based on calvary attacks but you can dismount 
 your horse for better and more comfortable fighting. You can also besiege castles, towns and cities 
 and station garrisons in them to protect from the enemy. The best part is that if you get bored 
 of the Native settings (default game) you can download mods created by other gamers. The mods make 
 the game even better and all the modules always keep that little Mount&blade touch, which gives 
 you that boost to go back and play with the native settings.
  Last but not least, the price is really low well at least right now that it is still in it's beta 
 version. So if you want to try out the game and see it yourself i will recommend you to play the 
 Free trial first, hosted by the official site before buying it. This game is worth buying and it 
 is one of the most entertaining PC games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Samrat_Ashok
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 28, 2009 10:36 am PT
Review:  There've been scores of RPGs where you use the sword and the bow, and other such weapons. Some 
 of them are pure fantasy, like TES Oblivion, some of them are a little more realistic, but still 
 fantasy, like The Witcher, nice games in their category, but never has there been a game so realistic, 
 and so entertaining even while it's just in beta stage. Mount and Blade is set in fictional Caladria, 
 but that is where the fantasy stops. The weapons, the combat, everything is realistic. Specially 
 mounted combat, something which no RPG has offered so well, its fun, and still retains its authenticity.
 
  
  Presently, there is no story. You just create a character, and ride off into Caladria, with warring 
 nations all around you. Be a mercenary captain and follow the money, or ally yourself to one of 
 the kings, upto you. Command other cavalrymen, archers, blades etc etc and go to battle and become 
 a famous warrior, all upto you.
  
  Excellent game. And one of its kind. Worth every cent.
  
  Edit : Now that v 1.003 is out, and 
 Gamespot official review does not do it justice I could not resist editing this one.
  This version, is a lot more polished than the beta. It's looking better, and less buggy. Many ends 
 have been smoothed.
  The point here is, this is a game for people who want to game and not just look at the graphics. 
 It has no story because the devs have been saying since ages that the player writes his own story, 
 and one actually can. One can build a whole empire, and have thousands of men following him; It 
 takes time. Once you get past the beginning, you see limitless possibilities...... use your imagination! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: greentree92
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 15, 2008 5:49 pm PT
Review:  M&B is great that there is no magic or potions which is something i have never seen...
  You play 1 character as they roam the lands looking for men to follow you and for enemies to fight.
 
  
  The battles look great, its cheap, graphics are great but...
  
  The view if changed by the mouse which can get kind of annoying. there are lots of weps and armour 
 to choose from but when yuo start you get pretty much the best equpiment except for the horse...
 
  
  Would be better if the was multiplayer.
  
  Its hard at the start, you will probably lose your first 5-10 battles but then once you get the 
 hng of it, it can get quite enjoyable.
  
  Good thing is theres a free trial version so you can try it and see if you like it.
  
  Because 
 the game is still Beta ( hasnt been finished) its cheap. approx. 22 US i think...
  That means of cousre you get the newer updates free..
  Overall, I think you should get the trial 
 version and see how you like it. Dont buy the game until you've tried the trial for at least 10 
 or so hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lageste
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 9, 2008 8:19 pm PT
Review:  Where to start is the question this game has so much potential it is revolutionary. And why it 
 is revolutionary is that the devs actually want to make a GREAT game, not just churn out another 
 clone like the big game houses we are lumbered with today.
  
  This game in it's ethos goes back to the classic feel of games, fresh new, exciting, immersive 
 and adventurous. YOU KNOW when you play the total war series as polished as it is that what you 
 really really want is to actually participate in those battles that you command from a god like 
 perspective, well mount and blade gives you that, you don't have as indepth tactical command as 
 TW but it's still in beta, and wow does the combat make up for that!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  
  The combat system is simple yet effective and intuitive, easy to learn and hard to master, JUST 
 AS IT SHOULD BE, and i can gaurantee it will be cloned!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! it is your personal skill 
 and talent that determines whether you win our lose. Skill trees also play a role, for they determine 
 what weapons and armour you can weild and how effectively you can use them, and choosing how to 
 develop you character is critical to how you play the game, AGAIN JUST AS IT SHOULD BE, to many 
 Devs make personal talent irrelevant, and skill tress adaptable, in other words they don't want 
 to turn the dumbest, most useless numbskull off buying the game in case they think it's to hard................ 
 Mount and Blade takes gaming back to it's roots, where your decisions and talent for the game make 
 THE GAME.
  
  OH and finally you ARE NOT ON RAILS, This is still Beta, but has the potential to be a gaming classic 
 of the highest order. Why did it take and underfunded unknown 2 person dev team to tap into the 
 vein of greatness and create this, i'll tell you why because they have a passion for gaming, something 
 that has been lost in the modern game factories. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pistolao
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 14, 2008 3:35 am PT
Review:  Played for 6 days, did all what the game have to offer 2 times, than i download some mods/expansions 
 and did it again... Let me tell you folks!!! NEVER HAVE THIS MUH FUN!!! And I am really a PC GAME 
 FREAK!
  Imagine you in the middle of those large battles like Brave Heart, LOTR, Kingdom of heaven... The 
 game have some RPG parts but it is mostly and ACTION game, you will block and swing your weapons/shield, 
 use you shield to block arrows in castle sieges, use you horse to open space in the enemy meat 
 wall army :D, have some nice headshots with your missiles weapons (bow, crossbow, and etc...) and 
 lots more... So this is no point and click game, you will have to control moviment, atack and block. 
 Yeah you have some RPG detail like, EXP, LVLUP and others like:
  * Status: STR = more melee dmg and hp, AGI = more missile dmg and weapon speed, INT = give extra 
 skill points and CHA = more people to your army,
  * Skill: lots of them, from combat to tactical ones, and I mean really really lots os skill, but 
 dont worry, you can have heroes on your party so you can specialize each on in one skill as you 
 like so you dont have to have it all.
  * Weapon points: basically it will make weapons easy to use... AND IT WILL INCREASE not only on 
 lvlup but using the weapon as well.
  *Items: Lots os them, and i mean really really lots of them...
  
  The game is quite simple, 
 you can do lots of quests and arenas, that are quite boring, or you can start where the real fun 
 lies... on the battlefield once you choose to fight for one of the 5 kings of the game, you will 
 have to gain some renown be able to recite your outh to one of them and than you will engage larger 
 battles of 100 to 300 soldiers, whatever your PC can hold... do some vilages, castles and entire 
 cities sieges, upgrade not only your troops, and you and your heroes items, but the vilages that 
 you own as well, and the game creators are implementing the same as well to cities and castles, 
 so it has some minor RTS parts too...
  But the best part is THAT IS COMPLETELY OPENED FOR MODS, quite like TES oblivion, you have from 
 large mods that will make the game like LOTR... some minor mods like new items and heroes, some 
 graphical like better textures and some game upgrades like blacksmithing and other stuff... You 
 can download the full game for free and play it in demo version that gives you the possibility 
 to play it fully until you reach lvl 8... If you are going to try it, I really recommend 2 mods, 
 the battlesizer (to increase the number of soldiers that fights each other in the battlefield, 
 originally you can play from 20 to 72 only) and the castle siege fix (to fix some of the ladders 
 that dont allow your soldiers to enter castle/cities as well) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madman23
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 10, 2008 4:39 am PT
Review:  Skulking about in Thief I & II was fun but the real thrill was dispatching the enemy (usually castle 
 guards) from a distance with a bow. Success (by way of archery) in their demise wasn't from auto-targeting 
 and a dice roll, it was from lots and lots of practice. Calculate the distance (arrows arced!) 
 , calculate elevation, and on it goes.... 
  Once you were One with your bow, you were a leg up on the rest of the game.
  Stealth is not a 
 component of Mount&Blade AT ALL (maybe someday???) , but the finesse required in the Thief series 
 for guard sniping, via archery, runs throughout M&B. 
  Can you imagine finesse with a battle axe (while mounted) ? 
  M&B has it.
  Axes come in real 
 handy, so much so that I haven't tried some of the other weapons (such as javelins and crossbows 
 or spears) but I'm sure they have their own quirks. Require their own finesse.
  M&B is played out on a huge game map that zooms down to a first person blood and glory winner-take-all 
 map when you encounter an enemy.
  Without skill you'll be taken captive and maybe horseless and broke once you escape (I don't think 
 you actually die in the game) .
  But once you're One with your weapon, success when you're outnumbered will come down to hard won 
 experience. Victory feels like real success in this game more than any other.
  Dice rolls can be thrilling, I guess. But there's nothing like down and dirty hard-won Skill. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lexandru
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 11, 2008 1:32 pm PT
Review:  Ran into this game by pure chance. Don. t remember the exact story but a friend gave me a demo a 
 year ago... maybe two. Played a bit, enjoyed it then and it somehow slipped away and I forgot about 
 it.
  Long story short. Browsing gamespot led me to the game again..
  It is brilliant in simplicity. Being a game made exclusively for fans and in part by fans. Only 
 browsing for a few minutes on the forum you'll see that. Not the best graphic or sound but the 
 gameplay is evolving from one patch to another. Continuously new things to do like quests or other 
 character builds. The shear joy to see large scale battles but where you are more involved. On 
 the battle field you are a recruit but also a general. Decisions made by you really matter. Every 
 aspect of battle dynamics is put in perspective: the terrain , the elevation, the flora. Being 
 in front of your soldiers makes you have the sensation that you are more powerful.
  Character building is very opened. Lot's of choices depending of your style of play. Besides the 
 common units in your party you can find special character that you can recruit. You can customize 
 every aspect of them.
  Probably the downside of the game is that you clearly see that it's still a work in progress. The 
 map is relatively large and it shows it misses some things. Some features are still not implemented 
 but that makes you want it more.
  Try it, that way you make your own feel of the game. It really grows on you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jacob72993
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 28, 2007 10:06 am PT
Review:  It is one of the best games i ever played, i only play games for about a week or 2 then quit playing 
 that game and switch to a different game.. but this game is different i've been playing this game 
 for about 2-3 month's straight! without even switching to a different game, its amazing.. the reason 
 why i think i haven't switched is because this game changes at least once every two weeks.. and 
 it NEVER gets boring because once you do get bored ( which will be never ) you can always just 
 download a mod to change everything and make it like a whole new game! The mod i think that is 
 the best is ' EXPANDED GAMEPLAY: II ' ... i think its definitely, by far, worth your time!! so 
 if your having a hard time deciding if you should buy the game.. I SAY BUY IT!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Virtual_Erkan
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 13, 2007 1:26 am PT
Review:  I don't know how to start reviewing this game. First point is that the game is still unfinished. 
 I have start with Beta versions from 0.756, 0.808, 0.894 and the latest version which is 0.901. 
 Each version is having a huge change between them. From content to graphics.
  
  We start our game by creating your character. Entering your name, choosing your previous job, selecting 
 the area where you are skilled at using weapons and editing your avatar (or your face) . Than you 
 customize your attribute skills which are STR, INT, AGI and CHA. Then customize your skills like, 
 weapon master, shield, archery, riding, athleticism, tracking, prisoner management etc. The final 
 point is customizing your weapon proficiency. You single-handed and double handed weapons, polearms, 
 crossbow, archery and throwable weapons. When you finish them all, you start playing the game.
 
  
  We start with the world map. We have our hometown Zendar. The rest is the castles and villages 
 which belongs to the 4 kingdoms. You can navigate your trip with one click of your mouse. Don't 
 worry if the movement speed is slow because you start the game with mount already. The speed of 
 the mount decreases as you have more food supplies, profit making goods, your party members and 
 captive prisons.
  
  In any town, there is a market place where you can buy weapons, armors, goods and horses. Weapons 
 varies from farming tools to Black Knight weapons. You can buy axes, swords, bows, crossbows, throwing 
 knives and axes, javelins, spears, pikes shields and many more. In armors the samething. You can 
 buy cloth or leather or chain mail, or iron plated armors. You can buy helmets, body armors, footwear 
 and gloves. In goods you can buy stuff like furs or ores (and many more) to make profit by selling 
 them in specific villages or castles. You can also buy all sorts of food to make your party's morale 
 high. So you have lots of things to buy in this game.
  
  You can earn experience and money by participating arenas or face enemies (bandits, pirates, armies) 
 during your travel in the world map. The fighting is very innovative. You slash your enemies with 
 the movement of your mouse. You can slash from right or left, strike your blade downwards or stab. 
 You will have to use different slash movements to defeat your enemies because if the block horizontally, 
 you will have to slash him horizontally because if you slash him vertically he will block your 
 attack. So your fight is strategic in other words. It is more strategic with commanding your party. 
 Order them to charge, stay, use range weapons etc. to win the battle. At the end of the battle, 
 you will gain money, experience and experience to your party. Your party members will level up 
 from footman to a champion.
  
  I will talk more about this game after its full release but still the game is fun. You can play 
 the demo version where you can only level up to level 6. My recommendations is try this game. You 
 must play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Bezerker
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 10, 2007 1:17 pm PT
Review:  I think this was a good idea for a game, basically, you start off an untrained warrior, you can 
 explore the world of caladria, fight in the wars, develop your party of warriors and fight in RPG 
 stlye battles with a bit of strategy in it, leading your army against your enemies. You can go 
 down many different paths to make money, or join a kingdom to defeat another kingdom. You can do 
 pretty much everything a normal lord can do in the medieval period.
  
  Its an amazingly good game, but it isnt finished, so you can download a trial and buy it for half 
 the price it will be when its done so its a good game to get.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kristjanp07
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 26, 2007 6:48 am PT
Review:  I bet the game will never really come out, that it will be updated constantly and that there will 
 be many more versions of the game still in beta, but im totally ok with that, since the game has 
 thousands of awesome mods that make the game superb. Even without the mods the game rules. The 
 game can be played in both first person and third. Has an awesome mounted combat, weapons, and 
 an awesome world that u can change with a certain program. The game also has an awesome economy. 
 U can get the game at http://forums. taleworlds. net/index. php/topic,26287.0. html. U have to try 
 this game out! (sorry for my bad english, im from Estonia) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eclarkdog
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 19, 2007 11:47 pm PT
Review:  I thought I'd write a quick review now and expect to update it later as game is updated. Technically, 
 Mount &amp; Blade has not been released, but has been in beta form for several years. This review 
 is as of beta release .894. I'm assuming the game will be official once it hits release 1.0. Anyway, 
 I've been playing the game off and on for a couple of years. First and foremost, the best thing 
 about Mount &amp; Blade is the combat. M&amp; B is a role-playing game with a heavy emphasis on 
 traditional combat such as melee, archery, and even lances or jousting. M&amp; B contains no magic 
 or otherworldly aspects - and that is a good thing. However, it should be noted that M&amp; B already 
 has a large modding community that has created story and tech mods with some magically elements, 
 if you so choose. The nice thing about the modding community is that they have created some meat 
 to the M&amp; B game while waiting for completion of the standard game. Well, back to combat. The 
 combat is absolutely amazing in it's realism. There is no game that I've played that comes as close 
 to immersing you in the technical aspects of combat. The player really feels his skills improving 
 and experiences what it's like to wield a sword or shoot an arrow into an enemies head. All that, 
 and you can fight from horseback as well, with additional difficulty, of course. And trust me, 
 the riding a horse is as real as it gets in this game. and factors significantly in winning complex 
 battles. This game is leagues away from a traditional point and click or hack 'n slash RPG. This 
 is the real deal and has to be experienced to be believed. You will progress from a dude who can 
 barely lift a sword or aim a bow to one that is extremely adept at both - on foot and horseback. 
 The developers have done an amazing job with the elements of combat and continue to improve on 
 it with each release.
  
  Graphically, this game may not hold up to today standards. Yet, I find the environments are actually 
 nice and rather realistic given the engine limitations. Furthermore, the weapons, armor, horses, 
 etc. are excellently rendered. I think this game holds up well graphically even if it isn't a rezzed 
 out DX10 game. As for the story, the game is pretty lacking at this point. Again, one can apply 
 mods that will provide this in the short term - there are even LOTR mods that are most apt for 
 this type of game. I'm not exactly sure where taleworlds is heading with the main story at this 
 point. It will definitely include battles among a few kingdoms and your characters rise in status, 
 fame, glory and riches. M&amp; B also contains some elements of strategy and trading. Strategy is 
 certainly a key in battle.
  
  M&amp; B can be played for free in the demo version. However, for a small fee one can play the full 
 game now in advance of the games release and not have to pay full retail at that time. It's worth 
 the price as this game will provide hours of enjoyment and the mods will provide plenty of replay 
 and variety. M&amp; B is by far the most realistic medieval combat game out there and possibly the 
 most realistic in any genre. You really feel like a Knight in shining armor. Once this game is 
 finished and a story applied, it will be a true classic and one of kind game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cathaode
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 18, 2007 6:18 pm PT
Review:  Well, technically you can play it as one character until your computer dies; The point is that 
 until they add a story and more meat, the game just gets kind of old. While you're still playing 
 it, it's one of the most immersive and fun games you'll play. The combat is fast, but requires 
 thought. You can be killed by one guy if you don't plan anything out on normal difficulty, but 
 you can singlehandedly kill 20 guys if you play your cards right. You can also be a merchant and 
 gather a large sum of money instead of/ while being a fighter, you can be a Priest (Which isn't 
 the one you'll be accustomed to in other RPGs) , a Hunter who is basically a Squire (Fighter) , but 
 uses ranged attacks, or a good old fashioned Squire. It does come with it's downsides though; For 
 one, the only class worth making seems to be the Squire or Hunter with the other ones being too 
 difficult to level. Attacks can be unresponsive at times. Finally, in the arenas (great fun otherwise) , 
 you can't pick which weapon you get. I sometimes get stuck as an Archer when my specialty is Mounted 
 Melee.
  
  Good Points:
  1) Plenty of things to do.
  2) Challenging combat.
  3) Realistic combat.
  4) Easy to get into character.
  5) Good leveling system.
  
  Bad Points:
 
  1) Certain classes seem under powered.
  2) Glitchy in spots.
  3) No Story.
  4) Certain combat styles seem overpowered.
  5) Big risk vs Little reward for battles at higher 
 levels. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dantheman102100
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 11, 2007 5:42 pm PT
Review:  Quite simply, this is a great game. I've been looking for something like this for a long time, 
 but nothing has come close.
  
  The gameplay is original, fresh, in depth, sophisticated, and easy to get into. Graphics are nice, 
 not anything next gen, but very good none the less. Music is probably the most lagging feature, 
 if it had more than 3 or 4 tracts it would be nice. What music is in the game though fits the atmosphere 
 perfectly. With huge moddibility, friendly and supportive online community, the only area that 
 could be improved is audio. Aside from that, this is a great game and a must have for anyone wanting 
 an immersive medieval style non-fantasy experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crows_bow
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 21, 2007 11:21 pm PT
Review:  This game was so wonderful that I honestly created a thread in the forum just to let people know 
 a little bit more about the game so they can try it and enjoy it. I haven't even had the chance 
 to play the finished game yet (nobody has, it's in Beta) , but it really is greatness waiting to 
 be discovered. I'll just go through a quick good and bad list here.
  
  The Bad first :) -graphics. the first thing you notice when you look at any of the screenshots 
 for this game, is that the graphics are out-dated, or rather, created from scratch by lesser-known 
 developers who do not have vast budgets to work with. But not to worry, once you start playing 
 the game, you won't notice them too much because of the immersive gameplay.
  
  sound-same as the graphics, mostly below average when it comes to diologue and a soundtrack. The 
 diologue itself isn't that bad, but it simply loses points because... well... honestly there isn't 
 a whole lot of it in the game. The characters that you hear the most diologue from are the bandits 
 that you randomly encounter that try to rob you, however they still say the same line over and 
 over again, accompanied by a text message on the screen telling you what he really means. It works 
 and you get used to it, but it doesn't do much to suck you into the experience and it just never 
 feels right. The soundtrack is appropriate, setting the mood most of the time, but after a while 
 it gets repetitive and even a little distracting. I often find myself just turning off the music 
 altogether after a couple hours of play. Still, not bad enough to make you think twice about trying 
 out this game. Besides, simply the sounds of an arrow going through your shield or a sword clashing 
 with yours is satisfying enough.
  
  almost unkown- I haven't known about this game for more than a week, and it's been out since 2006. 
 This game was created by a husband and his wife, in Hungary. They have a limited budget, an ambitious 
 game, and almost no exposure as neither IGN nor Gamespot (or any other big american-based gaming 
 website for that matter) has much info on this game at all. Some people say the game is far from 
 going retail, some have absolutely no idea. One thing's for certain, this game is almost unknown 
 to the world, and it's a crying shame. The GOOD! -Almost everything else. The gameplay is almost 
 perfect in its simplicity. Left mouse button to attack, right to block, F keys are for various 
 commands for your team, I is for inventory. You can pick this up in almost 5 minutes. And you'll 
 need to. The combat is easy to understand but challenging if all you do is continually smash your 
 attack button hoping your enemy will drop before you do ( I tried it the first time I played the 
 demo, and got my a** handed to me) . This challenge gives battles a unique tension and need for 
 strategy, always keeping the gameplay fresh without becoming repetive.
  
  Apart from that, you have everything you'd expect from an RPG (a good one anyway) . It has plenty 
 of quests to keep you busy, and plenty of factions to align yourself with. This game is a classic 
 in the making, and with a little support, could very well go a long way. Bravo. Give the demo a 
 try, you won't regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GodLovesDead
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 27, 2007 7:01 pm PT
Review:  Everything to be said has been said. But to add, these developers know what they're doing. This 
 game is ****ing amazing for what it is. Pros:
  
  - Open Ended
  - Lots of Equipment
  - Balanced
  - Huge Battles
  - Great Combat
  - Dozens of Mods
  - Decent Graphics
  
  
 Cons: - Slow Patches
  - Not as popular as it should be.
  
  Just try the trial at . You'll want to hand these guys money just so they can continue developing 
 the game.
  
  The best part is the game isn't even done yet! There's still more coming out for it and it won't 
 be finished for awhile. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gear60
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 3, 2007 2:51 pm PT
Review:  With all those major brand developers puttting less emphasis on gameplay and hoping there gamers 
 won't notice indie dev's are the ones that do real work.
  
  Mount &amp; Blade starts off by having you create a character with customizations from gender, 
 class, weapon proficiences, and skills. After that's done you can model your character's face. 
 Here you'll notice the faces look bland almost lifeless. Don't worry they blend seamlessly to the 
 game world.
  
  You'll start off with specific items based on your class. Here off your allowed to explore the 
 small but fun world. (The game's still in beta so don't expect it to be completely the best. When 
 you head into a city you can buy armor and weapons and recruit party members from taverns. You 
 can also buy trade goods and sell them at cities where it's worth the most. Party members ragne 
 from generic soldiers who fill up the mass of your party and hero companions which may be customized 
 from head to toe they also cannot die. You may also recieve quests and join the 1of the 2 factions 
 at war which is sort of the main quest. The quests are standard stuff deliverign cargo, capturing 
 prisoners, raising men, and esorting carvavans. The cities look a bit bland and have not alot to 
 do in such and empty space. I'm sure the developers were planning to add other things.
  
  When your engaged in combat with an enemy you'll have the choice of fleeing or surrendering based 
 on the situtation (Example: Fleeing from horsemen bandits is not possible) . Once your engaged in 
 combat you'll spawn with your men. If both parties have over 20 men not all of them will appear 
 on the battlefield. Here the game gives you simple commands ofr your men to do like holding positions 
 or just charging. You can also give individual orders to a certain type of unit. Speed plays a 
 major bonus in combat. If you have a horse and you hit an enemy charging it'll probably do alot 
 more damage. The faster you go the more deadly you are but it will much harder to maneuver the 
 terrain which ranges from forest, plains, to mountainous regions. Your soldiers may win or lose 
 the battle. The good thing with the game is if you lose you never *die* your either taken prisoner 
 ir dragged out by your men depending if there are any left. Combat AI is still suspect as most 
 of the time your soldiers just chase after everything blindly. Mounted horsemen fair much better 
 but crash to often into terrain like trees or rocks.
  
  After you win a battle you may loot items and armor and capture prisoners or have freed prisoners 
 of the opposing party server under you. So somtimes it's necessary to attack certain parties for 
 the sake of getting better units. After the battle you and your men will get exp depending on how 
 much they fought and how much you fought. If your exp hit's the limit to get a levelup and your 
 men may get upgraded to more stronger units. You add one attribute point that all affect customization 
 for example : Adding Intelligence points give you another skill point while agility adds more weapon 
 proficiency points.
  
  A couple bad things to note about the M&amp; B. The graphics while lagging in climatic battles are 
 still quite balnd and reused. Textures seem to look like muddy spots. The enemy combat AI and your 
 own men's combat AI is plain horrible even set on the best. The game's annoying healing system 
 real akes it hard to enjoy some scenes. You only heal from resting in taverns or staying out of 
 combat. The game suffers from long load times even with 1gb of ram and the settings toned down. 
 And there are mroe than your average share of bugs but it's still in beta.
  
  Still M&amp; B stand's to beat game's nowadays made by lazy developers who give too much into graphics 
 than gameplay when instead it should be a balance of 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: exo911
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 16, 2007 5:51 pm PT
Review:  This game is all you want. Graphics could be better, but gameplay is more than solid. If you get 
 tired of original story line, download a mod. There are many mods such as 300 (spartan war mod) 
 or even Star wars or LOTR. You can try it before you buy it which is great. Horseback cavalry and 
 massive infantry battles what else can you want. There isnt much sound but who cares! Once you 
 beat the game use the cheat codes built in to see what you couldnt have done before. Defiantly 
 try this game and buy it. Taleworlds has made one great a$$ game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bjornishigi
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jul 14, 2007 4:47 pm PT
Review:  Viva la Revolucione!! Are you, my fellow gamer, sick of paying big bucks for over-hyped, big budget 
 titles from corporate enterprises who have made all their game design decisions based on profit 
 margins and conservative market trends in hopes of appealing to the largest and least imaginative 
 audience? The answer I hope is yes, because fortunately, there is still a real alternative, unlike 
 in some of our other social arenas. I don't want to totally disparage mainstream gaming, its not 
 all bad, but there are just so many fun games that are off the radar made by independent developers 
 that are so worthy of our attention. To start with, Mount and blade is aesthetically a diamond 
 in the rough. While the textures in game are superb, there is no authentic 3d horizon or sky. That 
 really doesn't seem to detract from the game over-all however. Considering its a two person development 
 team, I can definitely forgive this minor deficit. Especially because the game still manages to 
 look unique and beautiful. The good news my friends, is that having played every genre of combat 
 game out there I can pretty much say this is a new experience for pc gaming. Yes Conan is coming 
 out and will have horseback fighting and some console titles have done it already, (haven't played 
 these yet) but I doubt they are up to the standard set by this title. Your horses look as if their 
 movement was captured by stop-motion technology. The realism of watching combat transpire is something 
 I haven't seen in a computer game before.. its kind of unbelievable that it takes a two person team 
 from Turkey to reveal this dimension of gaming goodness to the world. More power to them. They 
 deserve our support. Games should first and foremost be fun. Period. Everything after that is icing. 
 I would go so far as to say that games that aren't fun should be illegal. I think most people would 
 agree with me when I say that the spectre of technological innovation is only properly appeased 
 when genocide and lamentations of oppression proliferate in the vaunted hauls of cyber-space, accompanied 
 by the merry laughter of the homicidal denizens of the new virtual village. Mount and blade. Pain 
 and Pleasure. Game on brethren. I've said enough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Sami
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 25, 2007 12:21 pm PT
Review:  When I first found this game, I was like: okay lets try this crappy game and then uninstall it. 
 But when I have played it for 1 hour I was totally hooked and I HAD to buy full version! First 
 you can just play native (normal) mod, but then you really have to download some player made modes 
 that are just so amasing!
  Okay now I give you my rewiev.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  This is the main reason with big 't' to buy this game! It's just so pure fun. First of all there 
 arent any fantasy elements in gameplay wich is good. You shouldnt just raise your atributes randomly 
 cause they affect on what kind of character you can made. Maybe only thing bad in gameplay that 
 it's pretty easy to get robbed, byt hey that's realistic!
  
  Sound:
  
  Few tracks that are in game really fit in game, but it gets really boring listening them over and 
 over again. You can extract your own song to it wich really makes it up. Minus for sounds is too 
 that they havent acted any sounds for NPC's they have just placed dialog for them, which is course 
 better than nothing.
  
  Graphics:
  
  Graphics isnt the best part in game, but they still do their job. With all video options on and 
 some graphics mods on it can look pretty beatifull. Texture details can look pretty boring, but 
 it isnt end of the world it doesn't change the fact that it looks till decently good.
  
  Value:
  
  If you had to spend few dollars for something you should spend them for this game!
 
  
  Tilt:
  
  Even tough its not brand hot in techinal level, its still very very good game! Just get really 
 into it, which isnt hard and you have a legend on your hands! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: olegasole
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 8, 2007 7:42 am PT
Review:  this game is a real medieval times rpg, you cant just activate a shield or wield 10 weapons, this 
 is the real dead. still in beta this game has no storyline, just plain free form adventure. you 
 start as a simple character with skills that you choose and go from that into a knight with a whole 
 army. the game is preety simple, you can raid simple farmers, become allies with warmonging factions 
 or just sell and buy items.
  
  the game includes good graphics that you can see have been made good, you can see the blood on 
 an enemy soldier after you have hit him with a spear or hacked him with your sword, the arrows 
 fly in the sky realistic and the armys are formated realisticly. you can buy soldiersto your party 
 to help you in battles, you will have to pay them wages and initial costs.
  
  the fun things you can do are tournaments. tournaments are either on horse or on foot, you can 
 have a lance, bow, or a sword, you can bet some money if you are ready, you can even watch the 
 fights yourself.
  
  the best thingf about this game is the sieges. if you have an enemty faction and you wish to attack 
 one of their villages of towns, you can sneak in through the gates with your party and just plain 
 fight it out and ain xp. you can increase your attributes, skills, and weapon skills every time 
 you level up. you can level up by fighting and doing quests. when you level up you will have certain 
 points you can add on to your character and you can increase your strenth, ability to swim and 
 horse riding and much more.
  
  overall this game is plain amazing, when it comes out in retail, a full storyline will be made 
 to add on the thios free former game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KNinjaSoul
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 17, 2007 8:44 am PT
Review:  Okay.. Mount &amp; Blade. Let's get this started.
  
  I'll start with Gamespot-like usual review format.
  
  The Good: Open-ended, never the same 
 twice, immersive, addictive and well-done realism and replayability with very good combat and player, 
 AI/NPC and character evolvement and involvement, with plausible graphics at least for the husband 
 and wife development team. The game is also fairly quick and easy to understand.
  
  The Bad: Repetitive sound, sometimes irritating, and some of the remarks of the AI/NPCs that talk 
 to you before you fight them is kinda embarassing to just listen to it, and the battles can also 
 be irritating too. Difficulty even on the easiest difficulty (Poor) is tough and would be extremely 
 difficult for new-time players.
  
  I went over pretty much all of it in The Good and The Bad bits, so i'll leave it at that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chowelrubio
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 25, 2007 11:51 am PT
Review:  If Oblivion had this style of struggle and battles, it would be the best game of the world. Sincerely, 
 it is the first time that a system of combat is alike the reality. Incredible, I encourage to try 
 it, since up to the level 6, it is free.
  The failures? That the graphics make great that to wish, it lacks many options and it does not 
 have any type of plot. Anyhow, thread is in phase, for what the definitive game can be moreover 
 surprising. It seems to be incredible that it is a domestic game.
  So, if you are fed up of games in which the realism in the struggles leaves very much (too much) 
 that to wish, this one is your game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cranberry2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 2, 2007 9:38 am PT
Review:  hi.. ok , no matter who you are its impossible don&acute; t like this. Even if you dont like the 
 medieval thing ( i never cared about it ) you&acute; ll like this one. Its cliche what i will say, 
 i know but the only thing i can reclaim here ( and with the rare good games in general ) is becouse 
 its damn vicious. Its like me and this game is just one, we turn ourselves on one in our magical 
 nights of sleepness spent together.
  
  First i must say, i dont like to review games, you can look i have only reviewed another game and 
 both becouse they deserve. The first deserved becouse was a crap and made me angry couse the people 
 keep saying that was a good game. And this becouse its a revolution one of the best games, most 
 addictive, enjoyable, fantastic, fun, fun ,fun , that i have ever played. The best medieval game 
 that have ever existed. And above all its easy to simpatisate with it, couse ( you must have heard 
 it anywhere bla bla bla ) it was made by two people ( at least they say! ) a lovely couple. So 
 it may be fruit of their love or something.
  You see? with love you can move moutains, ok no but, you can kill ordes of enemies with it. ( If 
 you are good enougth bi bi, but you can always cheat man dont be mad) Some siriouly here ( more 
 of them ) , the gameplay is perfect. First after played some reality ( when u take this game ) you 
 will be preccausious with other games. Wanna know why this game i so addictive and so immersive 
 despite its one of best gameplays ever made ? Its becouse it smells Reality! You cant find potions 
 here, nor can you be a fu.. wizard, yeah... be mad you can&acute; t cast shock in the ordes or burn 
 them! what? you think this smells fun? NO. fun you will se when you play this game. The archer 
 combat here keep confusing me, how can it be so true... i mean you do a head shot sometimes, from 
 distance, running on your horse... and you do it fast.. so at that very moment you can think... 
 you stop for some thinking.. how great that was... how fun... and he falls.. falls from his horse.. 
 and it keeps running alonge the way.... that beautifull crap horse, hey i could kill him too.. 
 oh no.......... AND..... and so you wake up, and realise , that very moment some guy is pircing 
 your horse&acute; s ass, DAMN him ,.... that first was more one dead ( and how dead hi is! ) , now 
 let me take this one, that was magical, not so great like the first but ok, only 53 now.
  
  Now look, im talking with you, read here, keep with me. Let me tell you something. First dont get 
 me wrong, i will talk about the graffics and the graffics in this game is what they consider reagular 
 ( and maybe great if you take that it was made by two couple in love ) . But for me the graffics 
 for this game is owesome. Ok you think im kissing the game ass? no im serious here. Look somehting 
 trely about grat graffics is that sometimes a lot of details and lighting and colors do the following 
 things: 1) Its a gameplay eater... you know, you will loose a lot of things, it may not rum smooth 
 with 50 or 100 even on the best machine. Gameplay its HIGHT priority here, if you want a graffic 
 game with poor gameplay, man! you are lucky becouse its a lot out there! but i know you dont want 
 it... calm down im just expressing myself.
  
  2) Keep you atention out ( and here you need a lot, oh no, you need a LOT) , Yes, you musn&acute; t 
 knew that but it does and a lot! 3) this is serious.. great graffics often make people get tired 
 a lot sooner. Make the eye and brain more tired. im not faking. its true. I&acute; ve been playing 
 this game for 3 days without stoping ( ok, not true, i eat, spleep, and make other quick things 
 sometimes... but i came back to the comp. and im quick... and thats the only big problem i see 
 in this game.. well what can i do? )
  
  Now i know what are you thinking.. the grafics must be **** for him keep saying all this covering. 
 NO. stop again. Its not. Its a good one. The horses are beautifull. All is beautifull only need 
 some more textures. And the graffics may be improved. Hey! is only a beta game yet. But im really 
 not bothering with it.
  
  But now im tired.. but not of playing. Its becouse i need to get some sleep. Look whatever you 
 are, if you are reading my crap review at this point then you&acute; re surprising me... look i 
 maneged to write the true about the game, for helping it. But it may be a crap now, its time to 
 pretend be dead a little. Look its hard but try not to get so involved in this game. And sorry 
 if the review is to hight, you know, if you keep reding hight reviews for good games you might 
 not enjoy it completly, becouse of the hight expectation. So when i know that some game is goos 
 just dont keep reading a lot of reviews, its not good. Look this game is a truly owesome one, at 
 least this i can say. Forget the rest i said. You will like it thats for sure. If you dont like 
 this game is becouse you dont like games anymore. Im not blaming you, just getting it grantted 
 to you. So i will end here, tank you so much. Make you review too ok? when you play it... and only 
 one more thing, if you aleready does it, try not to piracy this game, some say they are low on 
 funds, and are trying to better the game for us... so think about it. Maybe its true, i think they 
 deserve the money and if you think too, give to them if you can aford it. Must by a code, its cheap. 
 ; ) bye, it was really nice talking and be sharing the world at this century with you. Good luck 
 and sorry if the review was not much if nothing explanatory. Tanks for reading anyway. I mean that!!! 
 ok now you think im boring? ..... ok well maybe you&acute; re right... ; ) no i know you like me 
 couse i like you... and its true, and im not gay ... ok now you are think im weird? .. ok maybe. 
 its just becouse i dont want to leave the review... oh f.. ok bye. i love you 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mgsponer
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 29, 2007 9:35 am PT
Review:  I really don't know others game like this one, it is hard job to compare it with another games 
 so I think it's a unique game. I love the game, if you're looking for medieval fights dont think 
 twice, the role part in the game its not something new or outstanding. The game is not ready yet, 
 and I hope that the developer team does not surrender in this task, you can destroy it if you take 
 a look at the sound and graphic but if you take a change with the fighting style, and if you really 
 love the sword and the shield you got to play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mackattacka
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 26, 2006 5:46 pm PT
Review:  So, let me make this a nice, detailed review for somebody that has played this game thoroughly. 
 It's hard to give the game its ratings, because it's constantly growing. It's still in its beta 
 stage, and is constantly being worked on, and more, and more suggestions just keep plowing in on 
 the good, active forums. Do you have something you want to implement into this game? Go onto the 
 forums, and pop that suggestion in. This game, has more potential than most games I have played. 
 It revolves around the medieval times, horses, swords, etc. At the moment, there are four basic 
 classes you can choose from, but if you have an imagination, you can make a countless number of 
 classes just playing your skills right.
  
  You go through a decent character editor that will be improved as the games grows to its full version.
 
  
  Hunter - Very keen with bows. If you wish to be an archer type, or perhaps more of a melee fighter, 
 this would be your way to go.
  
  Squire - Very keen on horse riding. If you wish to be a good rider at the start, grab a lance and 
 ride away!
  
  Merchant - These guys have very nice trade skills, and they can hold quite a party. Start a nice 
 army at the start, and reign the plains with your force.
  
  And there is one more small class that has its beginning advantages. Now, these may effect your 
 role at first, but later in the game, you can change your character however you want. The leveling 
 system fits in pretty well. When you level, you get one stat point, which you can insert into strength, 
 agility, etc. One skill point, which you can put into a whole big list of different skills. And 
 some proficiency points, which you can insert points into different types of weapons to make your 
 character even better in those skills. 
  
  Alright, lets get to the base of this game. The battles. You start off alone, and you may go through 
 the training camp if you wish. I recommend that you do, if you're a first time player. After that, 
 you head over to the town of Zendar, where you will talk to the trainer. You go through a series 
 of one on one fights, and learn the basics of fighting with opponents, who get harder as it goes 
 on. Then you have the choice of going out to battle, gaining money, and getting yourself started. 
 Or you can go head to the arena, and gain some money by betting in the arena on either a match 
 you wish to watch, or join in on. When you are out in the open, you better watch your back. You 
 never know when you'll be alone and you'll come across a 150 man war party, who will take you down 
 in seconds, to minutes depending on how good you are. As you progress, and level up, you can create 
 an army. The two ways to get units into your army, is to either buy them from taverns. Or rescue 
 them from being prisoners to other armies. Once their in your control, there are three ways they 
 can leave. If you don't feed them, they shall choose to desert you to seek out better for themselves. 
 Or you can manually release them, which you will never see them again. Or.. the obvious way, death.
 
  
  When you engage into a battle, you can either bring yourself into third, or first person view. 
 You will wind up in a battlefield, which relates to where you were when you found the enemy. They 
 are on a different spot on the battlefield, and are already marching toward you. They stop at nothing 
 to bring you to your death, so you better be ready. Maybe you could climb up a hill, and fire some 
 arrows down into the oncoming waves of enemies. Or perhaps you could rush through on your horse, 
 slicing left and right, bringing their lifeless corpses to the ground. It's up to you, how you 
 wish to take them down. Or you can even stand behind, and let your army do the work, or the men 
 you joined. The starting number of men you can get into one battle, is 40. Now believe me, that's 
 a pretty fun number to have a full on battle with. But on the forums, you can download a battle 
 sizer MOD which you will have no trouble with. You can set the number up to 1000, but I honestly 
 doubt you could handle that. Honestly, go download this game right now. Head over to google, and 
 search in Mount&amp; Blade. Watch this game grow, you'll love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JediKnightGairu
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 24, 2006 3:20 pm PT
Review:  This game has INCREDIBLE gameplay. For the combat system, you travel the world in a strategy type 
 of style. If you bump into an enemy, he will try to rob you, or just begin combat with you. Now 
 getting some help is strongly advised, because sometimes, you'll have a million people to take 
 down, which is awesome. They all charge at you, with or without horses with weapons in hand. If 
 you manage to kill one on a horse, be wise and get on the horse. Now the horse riding system is 
 amazing. You'll be able to ride around the map slashing your enemies. You can either use a sword 
 or a bow, too. The trading/buying system is great, too. Just like any other RPG. You can also fight 
 in arenas for money, which is one of the coolest parts of the game so far.
  
  This game is one of the most addictive games you'll ever play, and I recommend it to everybody 
 out there who is just looking for a time to kill, or everybody who wants to play a great medieval 
 game. STRONGLY RECOMMENDED TO ANYBODY, EVERYBODY. At least download the demo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daffygremlin
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 2, 2006 6:55 pm PT
Review:  First off, let me start by saying that mount&amp; blade is incredibly re playable. Seeing as i have 
 been playing on and off for over a year now. Mount&amp; Blade places you in the middle of war between 
 two rival factions each of which has there own unique style of play. You can chose to join either 
 of the two armies after which you can travel around to allied cities (10+) and recieve quests and 
 wages from counts. You can also recieve quests from merchants in order to pick up a bit of extra 
 gold. Once you a pick a side though (if you do pick a side) , you cant enter (unless you try to 
 sneak in) enemy cities unless you leave that side and join the other one. Once in the cities (both 
 allied and enemy) you cant do much though. All you can do is recruit soldiers for your personal 
 army, sell/buy weapons, armor, food, horses, and ect. The bulk of the game play comes from attacking 
 enemy armies, merchants, the several kind of bandits, and ect. Once you join a battle you (your 
 army if you have one) can chose to fight them however you want depending on your skills (which 
 you develope over time) and your weapons. You can use crossbows, throwing weapons (knives, axes, 
 ect) , spears, swords (both one and two handed) , long bows, ride a horse (which you can attack from) , 
 fight on foot, and ect. You can also give orders to your soldiers. After a battle (if you win) 
 you can take supplies from the person you just fought (horses, weapons, ect) , ppl which they had 
 captured and add them to your army, and can sometimes even take some of your defeated foe as prisoners 
 who you can sell for money. You can also raid a pair of castles, and though the sieges are fun, 
 they arent anything revolutionary. The AI will occasionally have path finding issues but is generally 
 very good perticularry when it comes to combat.
  
  There isn't much of a story either, but thankfully there is pretty good mod that solves that problem. 
 Along with that mod there are several other great mods which change the setting/game play to pirate 
 wars, star wars, lord of the rings, and ect. Which greatly adds to the amount of hours that can 
 be spent on the game
  
  The graphics arent great either, but given the 20 dollar price point, the fact that the game is 
 updated every once in a while, and the amazing game play its doesnt do to much.
  
  Some of the games greatest game play comes from when you aid an ally in a battle against an enemy. 
 During which you get to fight the games most epic, exciting, and longest battles.
  
  Pros: Great Game play, replayability, good sound effects, tons of good mods, a very big maps, tons 
 of different ways to play and fight, good AI, the occasional huge/epic battle, updates, and cheap 
 price point.
  
  Cons: You have to download a story mod to get a good story, weak graphics, semi-dissapointing sieges, 
 and not much to do in cities. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swordhorder
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 3, 2006 2:03 pm PT
Review:  as with all my reviews... this game has good points and bad points
  +pros
  
  -big battles
  -character customization
  -amazing combat
  -the sheer numbers of mods extend 
 lifespan
  -be an  you want
  -calvary devastates infantry
  -clever combat system allows large armies to fight, even on low 
 spec machines
  -easy to create your own mods
  -lots of settings to get it just how you like it
  -nice graphics
  -arrows/javelins actually 
 stay stuck in people/shields
  
  -cons
  
  -unfinished- no story (as such)
  -battles can be to small without battlesizer mod
  -castle glitches
  -cannot capture/attack 
 towns
  
  its a shame its so unkown because with a bit more publicity this game could really take off. i 
 know i've been waiting for a game like this for ages.. but this one is'nt quite perfect though.... its 
 good... but not that good.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Albeo
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 26, 2006 1:56 pm PT
Review:  If you haven't played the demo yet, do that before reading this.
  
  I really enjoy this game. Who wouldn't want to ride over battlefields at the head of a band of 
 heavily armored knights? Who wouldn't want to rush into to battle swinging a longsword, cutting 
 down the local vikings? Or how about standing in the rear, picking off plate-clad men-at-arms at 
 each twang of your crossbow?
  This game is dynamic, has a great group of modders and is still beta-so it will get better!
  
 
  Gameplay
  Combat controls are pretty simple, L-mouse attacks and R-mouse blocks. But Combat is a whole other 
 horse (no pun) . From deciding whether to crash through enemies on a charger to legging it with 
 a halberd the possibilities are endless. Want to carry a mace and shield? Ok, but you'd better 
 forget about carrying a arming sword as the weight will keep you from getting to a vantage point 
 or avoid cavalry. AI is not the best, but it gets by. You have a few basic commands for your troops, 
 ex. hold this position, follow me, charge.
  The main game's has no real storyline, but the various mods have interesting stories.
  NO multiplayer.
 
  
  Graphics
  Its not DOOM 3 or FEAR, but it's good enough for me.
  
  Sound
  This is probably the weakest point. The things guys yell in combat should be alot more varied than 
 the two phrases they repeat at intervals. The soundtrack is boring after awhile, but it is easily 
 changed. I now listen to neverwinter nights music while ramming spears into peoples throats.
  
  Value
  Well, there is no resellability as this is a electric purchase.
  
  Reviewer's 
 Tilt
  Not sure what this means. I really like the game and found it very addicting. Did I mention there 
 are some great mods? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mand_450
Rating: 9.8
Date: Sep 20, 2006 11:51 am PT
Review:  How can only two people make such a fantastic game? M&amp; B actually revolutionize the RPG genre. 
 Why, cause it's realistic, funny and best of all, it features alot of new gameplay twists.
  
  Gameplay: I found the gameplay really fantastic. It featured a realistic but really fun gameplay. 
 While in other RPG's you run around and fight goblins and throw magic and stuff like that, you 
 will instead lead dozins of soldiers into battle against bandits, armies and so on. There's nothing 
 called Healing Potions and there will be no magical artifacts, so you'll have to pull yourself 
 together in the heat of battle, otherwise you're historie. Even though it might sound boring to 
 someones ears, try giving it a try. It's hard to explain the whole gameplay.
  
  Graphics: With only two developers and a very small budget, M&amp; B actually have some quite impressive 
 graphics. Though not cutting edge, it has some great looking models, and a face editor, which reminds 
 kinda much of the one in Oblivion. The textures also look good, though some look better than others.
 
  
  Sound: M&amp; B has some great soundtracks, even though there arent a huge varity of scores. M&amp; B 
 also include some great sound effects. While in the heat of battle, you will here soldiers insulting 
 eachother, and when the war is over, you will also hear soldier saying VICTORY . Th&eacute; re could 
 be some enviroment sounds, but luckly, the game is still under development.
  
  Value: M&amp; B has a quite good replay value, cause you can create your caracter and your army 
 in so many ways. If you made a caracter who specialized him/herself in melee combat, you can instead 
 make one, who's good a ranged combat. Also the game includes two countries, the Vaegirs and the 
 Swadians, both with their own pros and cons. Also the combat is so funny, that it is hard to get 
 tired of.
  
  Tilt: M&amp; B is both funny and challenging. It's still under development, so i can't imagine how 
 good it's gonna be, when it's complete. The combat is funny, and there is a large world to explore. 
 The game cost about 10-15$ right now, but sooner or later, it's gonna cost 25$. Buy it as soon 
 as yo can, so that you can get it at a discount prize. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firemyth
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 15, 2006 5:42 pm PT
Review:  This game is leaps and bounds ahead of anything near it's genre. Add to that the fact that it's 
 independently produced and still in BETA and you have a game that has not only loads of potential 
 but CRAP LOADS of content currently running. As of this review it's in .751 (i think) and allows 
 for castle sieges and take overs, raising of huge masses of armies, and a combat system like no 
 other. Plus it's a very polished game. Granted the graphics are dated but they still don't look 
 bad, and the sounds are a little soft and sporadic but again not badly done. The real hook to this 
 game is the combat system. A) Dynamic combat, you wanna swing cross body with a long sword? Point 
 just to the left of your target and attack, Overhead chop? just above his head and swing, thrust? 
 center mass baby etc, etc. it's very intuitive and is everything the word clunky is not.
  
  Don't like swords? fine go buy a crossbow or a long bow and pelt them from afar. Still not good? 
 Grab an axe and split some skulls, or throw some javelins, or daggers, or or or...
  
  Not to mention... don't wanna run across the field of battle? Hop on a horse and CHARGE across 
 the field of battle. Trample your enemies or run 'em through with a lance.
  
  And the battles can be HUGE! 50+ combatants at a time can cause mayhem to go to a new extreme not 
 to mention there are usually reinforcements for one or both sides whenever the body count gets 
 high enough. Granted the plot is almost non-existant right now but like I said it's still in BETA 
 and I get the feeling that this game is more about the combat anyway. There are so many things 
 this game has that I don't have the time to list, download it for free, play till ur character 
 hits lvl7 and then buy it for a low price, you'll get free updates including the final version, 
 and avoid paying for much larger price after it's done. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: klash_patil
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 30, 2006 12:09 pm PT
Review:  Okay, I went a little overboard there. It's not possible to behead your enemies - yet. 
  
  PREMISE : Mount & Blade is a role playing game that's best described as a realistic medieval simulator. 
 And by realistic, I don't mean the graphics. It's pleasing to note that someone out there decided 
 to prove a point - a hack and slash RPG without magic, sorcery and mythical creatures can still 
 be fun. There are no spells, mana or health potions, and combat is hard to the extent of being 
 brutal. The game's bare-bones approach leaves a lot to be desired, which is something you can look 
 forward to in future builds of this (nearly) shareware RPG.
  
  GAMEPLAY : Mount & Blade places you in a medieval kingdom (dukedom?) in the shoes of a character 
 whose gender and facial features can be customized by the gamer. You can also choose your previous 
 vocation from a set of templates - which determines your outfit and original skill levels. From 
 then on, you are placed in a neutral town (most other towns are governed by opposing factions) 
 and left free to roam. 
  
  The open-endedness of the game is apparent at this point ; you can choose to train and take part 
 in tournaments to gain some experience and money, You can set out and join either of the warring 
 factions, or you can continue to remain neutral and build your own army. 
  
  Combat is one of the areas of the game that scores - at the risk of sounding cliched, I'd say it's 
 fairly simple to pick up, but incredibly hard to master. You can fight with a variety of weapons, 
 ranging from bows and crossbows with arrows that deliver satisfying thunks as they dig into your 
 enemies, to swords, lances, spears and clubs that you can get up close and personal with. Arrows 
 are real projectiles - it's not uncommon to see bodies and shields with arrows sticking out of 
 them in the aftermath of a battle. On the whole, combat is by no means polished; melee weapons 
 are never stopped mid swing (they clip through your enemies) , and you never feel the impact - but 
 it does have a rather intuitive feel to it (blocking and choosing the direction of swing are handled 
 in an innovative manner) . The redeeming factors, though, are i) The scale of combat, and ii) Cavalry.
 
  
  When you have built up a sizable force of your own, battles (which take place in large arenas, 
 reminiscent of the area on the main map where you meet your adversaries) can be truly spectacular, 
 with over two dozen soldiers on each side. Whatever the outcome, expect to be covered in blood 
 at the end of such battles if you prefer to fight melee.
  All weapons that you can handle on foot can also be handled on horseback - which gives you several 
 advantages. Horse archery, once mastered, is extremely useful, as are lances. The horse animations 
 are very well done, and seeing your enemy being shot in the head and falling off his mount is immensely 
 enjoyable. You can mount (or switch to) any rider-less steed mid-battle, and the ability to do 
 so adds can often change the tide of battle when you go solo on a group of enemies.
  Combat can, in fact, be completely avoided, provided you stay vigilant when traveling on the main 
 map - you can, if you wish, live like a bona fide merchant in Mount&Blade.
  
  The game world is continuously evolving irrespective of where you are in the game or what you may 
 be doing, so you never know whom you may come across while riding on the main map (which is another 
 innovative concept - events occur in real time on the map of the kingdom.) Expect to find (among 
 others) bands of easily dispatched river pirates, manhunters that you can team up with, sea raiders 
 and expeditions from the warring factions consisting of highly trained soldiers on battle horses. 
 
  The skill system is the same as most RPG's, with a few innovations like surgery, wound management 
 and leadership, all of which you'll need to maintain a sizable force of your own. Horseback riding 
 adds a few more areas you can improve you character in - certain steeds require high skills in 
 horseback riding to ride. The only complaint, when it comes to inventory management and items, 
 is that all the good stuff is way too expensive. Put another way, the rewards you get for completing 
 quests are meagre - and rather disheartening at times.
  
  GRAPHICS AND SOUND : The low budget nature of the game stands out rather blatantly when it comes 
 to graphics - calling them mediocre would be an overstatement. Let's just say it would have been 
 cutting edge in 1999. On the bright side, it may just run on that old Pentium 2/Riva TNT that you 
 could never get yourself to dispose of. 
  An orchestral score in the background puts you in (the closest you'll ever be to) a "medieval mood", 
 and the hacking and slashing are accompanied by rather generic sounds - with a few exceptions (See 
 review deck) . Voice acting is nearly non-existent, with most interaction being textual. In any 
 case, it's not the graphics or the sound that make this game fun (and addictive) . 
  
  VALUE : The demo version is actually the full version of the game with a character level cap of 
 six, (but you know this already, right? If you don't, stop reading this and download the demo at 
 once!) and purchasing a serial key for about $14 lets you continue. The $14 also includes all future 
 updates of the game (that's still in Beta) . If over fifty hours of fun for $14 is'nt value for 
 money, I don't know what is. 
  
  SUMMARY : Mount & Blade's simple and rather half baked look is deceiving - underneath lies a complex 
 and an extremely enjoyable game. Just don't be thrown off by the game's first look. The game will 
 probably receive a (currently non-existent) main quest, and a few updates that improve interaction 
 with NPCs - and a sorely needed graphics overhaul. (fingers crossed!) For now, just ride your horses 
 into battle. For once, minimalism is fun. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: finalalchemist
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 27, 2006 4:33 am PT
Review:  Even though Mount & Blade is still in its development stage, this game is absolutely amazing. I 
 never played a game like this, It's just so immersive! Well to the review.
  
  Graphics: This is the only part of the game that lacks at all, but like I said it's still in the 
 development stage so it doesn't really matter. And because of the fact that it's still in development 
 I won't take off and make it a 5, instead I give the graphics a 7.
  
  Gameplay: Fun and Immersive. It's like an RPG that never ends! You adventure and advance in skills 
 and levels in a medival war setting. This game's combat has feeling to it which I love, but can't 
 really describe. 
  
  Sound: Amazing sound effects and a superb soundtrack, just one or two of the noises sound low quality.
 
  
  Value: This game is REALLY addictive, thats all I really need to say here
  
  CONCLUSION
  
  You have to at least try the trial for this one, I did and never regretted it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scimar
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 24, 2006 9:45 am PT
Review:  At first glance, Mount & Blade is rather an oddity. An RPG game made by a tiny developer with an 
 enormous crew of *2* people, with no fantasy elements what-so-ever and a combat system that strives 
 to be realistic. 
  
  Character Creation, the first step in ANY good RPG, is rather simple: Choose your gender. Not to 
 complex. Choose your previous career. This is a larger choice, but again, pretty self explanatory. 
 (Though those expecting the "A young priest" result to net them buffs and healing magic will be 
 dissappointed.) Then you assign points to skills, which can be a somewhat confusing, but there 
 are helpful tool-tips over for all of them. Then, you design your face and you are done. 
  
  So, you appear in the town of Zendar. It is the neutral town and offers a quest, some training, 
 stores, and of course, the arena. The Arena lets you bet on yourself in battle.
  
  At this point, it is advisable to go and hire yourself some help, as trying to solo anything larger 
 than the easiest, smallest, groups is far to hard. 
  
  As you explore the world, you find that there are two factions battling each-other, the "Swadians" 
 and the "Vaegir". You can choose to side with either, or even attack both of them, raiding shipments 
 of supplies for a living. This is where the game really comes into it's element, and it is amazingly 
 fun.
  
  All in all, a really only have one thing to say. You MUST at the least TRY this game. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: iloveFEAR
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 23, 2006 11:26 pm PT
Review:  this game is really addictive! it lets you immerserse yourself in huge battles as arrows fly by 
 and kills the guy beside you and steel hits steel it really makes it feel like a real battle. the 
 first person view lets you right up close in the action .after the intense battles ypu collect 
 loot just like in diablo and then sell it in the cool towns. you can join armies and get paid and 
 get ranks. you can get really great armor and nasty sword hire hole armies and join random battles 
 do awsome quest andjust explore this awsome world. BUY THIS  
 only bad thing is the presntation but updates esialy fix that 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vince199
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 24, 2006 4:03 am PT
Review:  This is a RPG type of game good for males to play because of the violence
  between the armies, it contains more than you expected , this game can be game of the year if the 
 game is finished. For me nothing is like it. It's got to be the best game ever made. It should 
 cost 30 dollors/39.99 when the games finished. This game can be called the fisrt ever game to 
 be like this containing horse back fighting. It would be fair if there was upgrades for people 
 who has already got the beta version so they won't have to buy it again but for the others they 
 can just get the game them self! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
