-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: MTV's Celebrity Deathmatch
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/mtvscelebritydeathmatch/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 27, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 2.8
Critic Score: 2.7, 11 Review (s)
User Score: 4.1, 140 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Gotham Games
Developer: Big Ape Prod.
Genre: 3D Fighting
Date:     Oct 19, 2003
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
MTV's Celebrity Deathmatch is a mess from top to bottom. 

   Celebrity Deathmatch , MTV's clay-animated comedy series, featuring random celebrities killing 
 one another off in an exaggerated, gladiatorlike fashion, was a surprise hit back in 1998 when 
 it debuted as a part of MTV's own Super Bowl halftime show. Since its initial matchup between shock-rocker 
 Marilyn Manson and convicted mass murderer Charles Manson, hundreds of different celebrity matchups 
 have been featured on the show, ranging from the marginally relevant (Bob Barker vs.  Weakest Link 
  host Anne Robinson) to the utterly insane (psychic John Edwards vs. Nostradamus) . While the show 
 is still technically on the air,  Celebrity Deathmatch  isn't quite at the level of popularity 
 it once was, which makes the timing of Gotham Games' console and PC representation of the show, 
 MTV's Celebrity Deathmatch, a bit peculiar. However, Celebrity Deathmatch's biggest problem isn't 
 its timing, but, rather, it's the absolutely horrid gameplay and complete lack of any worthwhile 
 features.  

          MTV's Celebrity Deathmatch brings home the mayhem of the hit clay-animated TV series.  
    

  Celebrity Deathmatch contains a decent number of real-life celebrities, available for your personal 
 amusement, including the aforementioned Marilyn Manson, Carmen Electra, Dennis Rodman, Anna Nicole 
 Smith, Mr. T, Carrot Top, Jerry Springer, Ron Jeremy, Miss Cleo, Cindy Margolis, Busta Rhymes, 
 Shannen Doherty, Tommy Lee, and all five members of N'Sync. Each celebrity has his or her own unique -- albeit 
 narrow -- range of attacks set to reflect his or her personality. Anna Nicole Smith, for instance, 
 can hit you with a large drumstick of meat, send her yappy little dog after you, or smash you with 
 a pair of melons (the fruit variety, thankfully) . Every character also has a special kill attack 
 that can be performed once your opponent's life meter has dropped to nil. Mr. T drops the A-Team 
 van on you; Tommy Lee plays your intestines like an electric guitar; and Ron Jeremy drops a pair 
 of oversized balls on you -- disco balls, that is. It doesn't get much more gimmicky than  Celebrity 
 Deathmatch's  premise; but whereas the TV show manages to stay reasonably fresh from week to week, 
 by providing at least timely and semi-relevant comedy, the game's version of the gimmick is so 
 utterly limited that you'll be done with it almost immediately.  

  The most limiting thing about Celebrity Deathmatch isn't actually even its gimmick, but, rather, 
 its gameplay system. Every fighter has an extremely short list of attacks available to them, and 
 only about half of these are actually useful. Some attacks are so insanely gimmicky that they actually 
 buck any sort of functionality or usefulness for the sake of a joke. Additionally, the attack system 
 is about as rudimentary as you'll ever find, involving so little skill that all you'll ever need 
 to do to win a match is just hammer on the attack buttons until your opponent is dead. Sure, they'll 
 occasionally block, but not often enough to ever require any form of strategy or plan of attack 
 on your part.  

  The word "limited" is highly useful when describing the roster of modes in the game as well. The 
 only two gameplay modes featured in the game are deathmatch and episode. Deathmatch is just a stand-alone 
 match between any of the fighters in the game. Episode lets you choose from six available "episodes" 
 of the show, each one with three predetermined fights on the card. Once you've beaten an episode, 
 you'll unlock a hidden character (like Frankenstein or a generic alien) and a new fight arena as 
 well. It should only take you about 90 minutes -- tops -- to blaze through the episode mode, and once 
 you've unlocked everything, that's all she wrote. The game also has a create-a-celebrity mode, 
 which, theoretically, is supposed to let you create your own roster of famous people to bludgeon 
 to death. Once again, however, the word "limited" comes into play, as there just aren't many options 
 to choose from in this mode, leaving you with only a scant few options and no real ability to create 
 anyone recognizable.  

          The game's few gags get old very fast, and the incredibly dull and simplistic gameplay 
 doesn't help much.     

  Celebrity Deathmatch's graphics and sound are also decisively lacking in pretty much every way. 
 The game doesn't really try to emulate the show's clay-animated art style, and, instead, goes for 
 a straight cartoon-styled polygonal translation of each celebrity. The models for the characters 
 look decent enough, but each of them lacks much in the way of animation. There's a few different 
 deathmatch arenas to try out, but none of them look particularly good. The game's audio is a bit 
 better, thanks to the infrequently amusing commentary of Johnny Gomez and Nick Diamond. It's functional 
 commentary, though a lot of the humor is a little on the crude and offensive side. (In fact, there's 
 far more offensive humor in the game -- more than the TV show ever allowed.) Cheesy voice actors 
 play the parts of the various celebrities, and they're no worse than the actors employed on the 
 show. The rest of the audio might as well not even exist, as it consists largely of poorly mixed 
 sound effects and the show's looping theme song, which only plays in menu screens.  

  MTV's Celebrity Deathmatch is a mess from top to bottom. The jokes are rarely ever funny, the gameplay 
 is a veritable smorgasbord of repetitive and boring action, and the underwhelming graphics and 
 sound don't help matters. If you're a fan of the TV program, you may find Celebrity Deathmatch 
 amusing for the 20 minutes it takes to see every single gag in the game once, and even that might 
 be a bit of a stretch. As for anyone else, stay as far away from Celebrity Deathmatch as is humanly 
 possible.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (3 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: asafs16
Rating: 2.5
Date: Aug 29, 2008 5:54 am PT
Review:  so im like a big fan of the TV series in MTV
  i love that show so much blood so much action 
  one of the best shows.. but why is the game so 
 awful!!?!?
  
  --------------------------------------------
  
  so i started the game and.. what the hell?? i couldn't believe what i saw but lets start over
 
  
  so first... theres nothing good about this game to easy to boring, theres no blood at all like 
 you see in the TV series no action at all.. the game is so boring that you want to shoot yourself 
 in the head before you start a new match... the battle moves are ugly and just not funny or FUN.. 
 but now lets talk about the next disappointment of the game: The charters
  
  where is all the "real celebritys" ?
  
  i saw so many celebrity that i didnt know about.. exept 
 MR T. , when i started the game i was wating to see 
  michael jackason, adam sendler, and more... but what the hell? and not only that..
  
  at least 
 6 charters are monster and unknown aliens 
  and that is really stupid..
  
  "the game is lame and not worth playing dont buy this" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Apekiller
Rating: 4.5
Date: Dec 28, 2007 5:37 pm PT
Review:  The game is made after the claymation TV show with the same name. The TV show was better. It was 
 more entertaining, and had a certain "je ne sais quoi" attribute that makes it unique and captivating, 
 which the game lacks.
  
  So, I just finished the game. It took me around 1 hour.
  
  The game has 6 stages, each with 3 fights. Some of the fighters will repeat even though they were 
 defeated and each time you finish a stage you unlock another character. Just like in the TV show, 
 you play with various celebrities, like Marilyn Manson, Mr T, Jerry Springer and several others. 
 There are 21 characters total, including the 2 commentators - Johnny the Wizard and Nick the Gladiator.
 
  
  The celebrities' lines are dull, repetitive and not a bit amusing although that was the expected 
 result. Add to this the lack of a variety of moves and clumsy controls and the game gets old pretty 
 fast - good thing it's pretty short. Each character does have it's own moves but they are fairly 
 limited, some of which are useless.
  
  One thing which bothered me was the absence of widescreen support - good thing I still had my old 
 monitor handy. Some may not be so fortunate though and decide not to play it because the image 
 is stretched.
  
  Since the keyboard controls were a tad out of whack I decided to play with a gamepad instead. The 
 gamepad's buttons are customizable and the control is preferable against that of the keyboard.
 
  
  Graphics: Acceptable, but they could have been much better. The characters don't really get that 
 clay feeling. That would've been a nice touch.
  Sound: The music theme is that from the TV show, voices aren't bad but the lines of the celebrities 
 are repetitive and tedious, spoken without intonation.
  Gameplay: Very repetitive, gets boring. The single player mode is rather short (~1 hour) and once 
 you've finished it you would have already played with almost all characters.
  Replayability: Little or none. You've got a game that takes an hour to finish and won't play again.
 
  Value: Small. It could've been higher, but... just stick to watching the TV show.
  
  Good fight, good night.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: majesticcryx
Rating: 3.5
Date: Aug 31, 2007 8:08 am PT
Review:  How do you botch a game based on the claymation carnage of MTVs Celebrity Deathmatch series? I 
 dont know either, and yet, its botched. Bad.
  
  Its a bit of a tragedy, since the TV show has long been screaming to be a videogame. For those 
 whose innocence remains intact, Celebrity Deathmatch pits the famous against one another in heartless, 
 no-rules arena combat for the entertainment of the unwashed hoi polloi. Its truly anything-goes, 
 as each celeb unleashes an arsenal of gag weapons themed to suit his or her pop image.
  
  I love the show, but its hard to find one nice thing to say about this game. The graphics are 
 bad to the point of blurriness, as if Im to believe my P4 has been crippled with a PlayStation 
 graphics chip. The dialogue is painfully unfunny  as evidenced by the fact that I played matches 
 with every single one of the games 16 characters and didnt laugh once. The jokes are barely even 
 jokes by definition: Busta Rhymes calls female opponents **** Jerry Springer whines; and Ron Jeremy 
 assaults people with a massive banana. How droll! Unfortunately, none of the TV shows subtler 
 satire or gem one-liners made it over.
  
  Worst of all, this is a fighting game in which the fighting is neither exciting nor funny. The 
 controls are a wreck, whether youre playing using a keyboard or a gamepad  and even when you 
 master the combos, they do nothing more than trigger the special attacks. If youre imagining the 
 total freedom that the shows combatants enjoy, forget it: here, youre on a dual-axis rail, flailing 
 like a Rock Em Sock Em robot. As a huge fan of both fighting games and the MTV show, let me be 
 the first to tell you that this game fails utterly at capturing the spirit of either. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
