-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Multiwinia: Survival of the Flattest
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/multiwinia/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Addictive multiplayer mode.
 Unique visual style.
 Intuitive control system.
 Plenty of modes and maps.
 Bargain price tag.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Weak story missions.
 Headstrong, duty-shirking Multiwinians.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 26, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 7.8, 31 Review (s)
User Score: 7.8, 67 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Introversion
Genre: Sci-Fi Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Sep 19, 2008

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Multiwinia adds a multiplayer mode and even easier controls to the addictive gameplay and visually 
 striking world of Darwinia. 

  Multiwinia is a multiplayer take on indie outfit Introversion's break-out hit Darwinia. It's a 
 real-time strategy game in which you command armies of flat, 2D characters across a range of isometric 
 environments. Like its predecessor, Multiwinia has a retro graphical style and simple game mechanics, 
 but its low-fi environment and accessible gameplay are the key to its appeal. The game's cute and 
 addictive nature will appeal to newcomers and casual strategy fans alike, although more seasoned 
 strategists may find it too shallow.  

  The story of Multiwinia follows on directly from Darwinia. For generations, the Darwinians inhabited 
 their isometric, Tron-like digital world, existing solely on a server hosted by a computer scientist. 
 However, when a virus breaks out, the inhabitants of Darwinia became infected, plunging the digital 
 landscape into a battleground for limited resources. The populace are left fighting it out and 
 become known as the Multiwinians thereafter. The story actually isn't that important though -- there 
 are no cutscenes or in-game dialogue in the single-player mode -- because all of the game's maps 
 and modes are unlocked from the beginning. This means that there are no incentives for playing 
 through the game by yourself, and each map essentially becomes a stand-alone mission.  

  You control an army of microscopic Multiwinians through a variety of game modes, including Domination, 
 King of the Hill, Capture the Statue, Assault, Rocket Riot, and Blitzkrieg. Capture the Statue 
 puts a nice spin on the classic Capture the Flag, where your ant-sized minions need to carry a 
 bulky figure back to your base. Effigies include dumbbells, the maoi of Easter Island, a billboard 
 marked "place your ad here," and even the Companion Cube from Portal. There are six game modes 
 and 44 maps in total available in single and multiplayer. Thus, you'll be kept busy for some time 
 with the variety and amount on offer.  

           There's a decent amount of variety in the six game modes, including the amusing Capture 
 the Statue.      

  The overall objective in each game mode is to advance ground while controlling various strategic 
 points. In Rocket Riot, you gain points that are solar panels for fuelling your spaceship, and 
 in Assault, you have to defend a weapon of mass destruction. As long as you control at least one 
 Multiwinian reproductive centre, you get a steady supply of reinforcements, although you need to 
 be on top of commanding or they'll just mill around your spawn point. You can use the mouse to 
 control Multiwinians as individuals or as a group, but the easiest way to command them is to create 
 an officer who can then direct them to coordinates or command a formation. These organised squads 
 have stronger firepower than randomly scattered troops, but they're also more vulnerable to attack 
 from the rear. There's no resource management or building of bases in Multiwinia -- it's all about 
 defending your own structures, capturing new ones, and attacking the opposing forces to increase 
 your rank in the game. The accessible style is quite refreshing; it's nice to not have to worry 
 about complex objectives and be able to launch an attack within seconds of starting your session. 

  Two tutorials introduce you to the basic and advanced aspects of gameplay, but it doesn't take 
 long to become a pro. One of the criticisms of Darwinina was that the controls took some getting 
 used to, but the new control system eradicates submenus and definitely makes things less frustrating. 
 In addition to directing Multiwinians via proxy through officers, certain levels allow you to teleport 
 them through transmitter dishes or place up to 100 at a time in an armoured carrier to ferry across 
 land and water. Multiwinians take care of combat automatically, but you occasionally find them 
 floating around by themselves or running away from the frontlines. Usually, a simple instruction 
 is enough to get them back into the action, but sometimes they'll refuse to cooperate, which can 
 be frustrating in the heat of battle.  

  In addition to sending your units to attack and capture, you can use them to collect crate drops 
 for bonus items. These include air strikes, meteor showers, armoured carriers, monsters, vicious 
 ant nests, gun turrets, and even mininukes. There's also a chance that you'll open a bad crate, 
 unleashing a virus outbreak that will infect all of the troops in the vicinity. By default, crates 
 tend to appear closer to the losing teams, and the power they unleash can often turn the tide of 
 battle. Thankfully, there's an option to change between weighted and random crate placement in 
 the advanced options. While the AI isn't bad, the single-player mode's story is disappointing, 
 and if you have an Internet connection or LAN, there's little reason to carry on playing alone. 

           High ho, high ho, it's off to war we go!      

  As the name suggests, Multiwinia is at its best when enjoyed as a multiplayer experience. You can 
 play against a mix of up to three human or AI opponents across all the same maps and modes as in 
 single-player. Each mode has about a dozen maps that vary in size, but all are suitable for between 
 two and four opponents. Naturally, a head-to head mission is easier, but things become more chaotic 
 and challenging when there's three or four people vying for the same prize. More divergent strategies 
 make playing against humans more rewarding than taking on AI opponents. You can also customise 
 each match to turn off crate drops and other settings the same way you can in single-player. We 
 didn't experience any problem hosting or joining games, although the lack of in-game voice support 
 means you have to use text to communicate. There are also no online leaderboards or any kind of 
 ranking system, which is unfortunate. Another downside of multiplayer is that there's no option 
 to create your own levels or customise the options to a great extent. For example, you dont even 
 have the option to change the number or location of spawn points. While a maximum of four players 
 might sound a bit limited, the quick-paced gameplay and map sizes in Multiwinia are tailored to 
 keeping things intense throughout.  

  Multiwinia's graphical style may be simplistic, but it's definitely one of the most charming aspects 
 of the game. The retro visuals and the eerie soundtrack combine to give the game a haunted feeling. 
 The sound of lasers, bombs, and screaming Multiwinians will also stick in your mind long after 
 playing. You might experience an occasional glitch or dropped frames when there are a multitude 
 of Multiwinians running around on screen, but nothing so bad that it's detrimental to gameplay. 
 Despite the game's retro look, you'll still need a 2.0GHz CPU and 512MB of RAM, although this won't 
 be a problem for anyone with a moderately powerful, midpriced PC.  

  Multiwinia is a unique strategy game and one that most strategy fans are bound to enjoy. While 
 some may feel the game's almost nonexistent story is a downfall, the game makes up for this with 
 plenty of maps and game modes to keep you occupied beyond the single-player experience. What's 
 more, the budget download price of 15 in the UK and $19.99 in North America makes this a high-value 
 package. Ultimately, Multiwinia's visual style and pick-up-and-play multiplayer mean that it's 
 a unique game in an overcrowded genre and one that most strategy fans should enjoy.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: fatcatsapien
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 15, 2008 9:32 am PT
Review:  I liked Darwinia a lot. I really wanted to like Multiwinia. The engine handles well, controls are 
 intuitive, and the graphics are pleasing to watch. The idea is creative, and the plain little Multiwinians 
 are easy to like. 
  
  Little has changed from Darwinia to Multiwinia. The basic difference is a shift from player controlled 
 units to an all-Multiwinian army. The squad, engineer, and even viral units carry over in power-ups, 
 but the primary combat is between different colored Multiwinians. 
  
  As with Darwinia, Multiwinia loves explosions. A lot. A few, well placed grenades can decimate 
 tight formations. Unlike Darwinia, however, the player no longer has control of the whens and wheres 
 of the hand grenade placement. It's interesting to play a strategy game where the commands aren't 
 exact, but when the hand grenades are everything, (and they are) the player is left frustrated 
 as their troops are killed by a force one third the size launching a few lucky grenades. 
  
  And don't ever count on hand grenades, because when they are needed the Multiwinians hate to 
 throw grenades, or worse, love to try to throw grenades up a steep hill and blow their teammate 
 Multiwinians back to the central server. At one point playing on a map with steep hills and deep 
 craters, I witnessed a Multiwinian kill no fewer than twelve teammates on a single grenade (which 
 failed to hit a single enemy.) The Multiwinians will always throw grenades at certain targets, 
 like enemy rockets on rocket riot or an enemy APC. This is easily and constantly abused, however, 
 as the APCs are replaced free and can be thrown into the middle of an enemy crowd while empty to 
 gather hundreds of free kills. 
  
  Changing gears, some of the power-ups are insanely over powered. A nuclear launch or meteor strike 
 can easily wipe out three fourths of the enemy forces on a small map. Sometimes, however, the power-up 
 crate contains useless or even harmful items, and they are completely random. 
  
  Darwinia was a really good game, but the grenades, air-strikes, etc were human controlled and reliably 
 available. In Multiwinia, the power-ups are completely random and the grenades are placed by an 
 AI of shaky intellect. 
  
  Overall, the game feels broken. Without the over powered explosions, the game has the potential 
 to be a great strategy game. With the power-ups turned off, it's good fun until the randomly-thrown 
 grenades turn against you. With some minor tweaks to explosion damage/radius, a little work on 
 the AI, and a shift away from the random into more player control over outcome of the game, it 
 would be great. As it stands, it's a broken game with potential. I'll be interested to see where 
 Introversion goes with the patches, but for now, I have to recommend a pass on Multiwinia. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PalatialRegalia
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 19, 2008 10:12 pm PT
Review:  I went to my friends today, only it was different this time because we had this game! he had just 
 downloaded the demo to try it and then it begun. Hours and hours of gameplay, we may have took 
 a thirty minute break once in awhile but this is the MOST ADDICTIVE GAME EVER! This is an exhilarating 
 game that keeps you on your feet. You have 3 difficulty levels, powerups, formations, and a very 
 cheap price tag. Even if you don't have the demo and your interested, get it! Trust me, it will 
 have everything you need to keep you busy for hours. You could say it's like a mini company of 
 heroes; you get napalms, nukes, bases, squads, and even creatures. try it or just buy it, I know 
 you will like it. In fact, I'm getting it right now. Online play, did i forget to mention that? 
 You can have up to four players of different colors, and there is also plenty levels, and game 
 modes.. enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: More_Dakka
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 19, 2008 9:40 am PT
Review:  Multiwinia is a multiplayer-focused RTS released by the indie-company Introversion. Over their 
 run, Introversion has released a number of entertaining and inventive games, including major hits 
 like DEFCON and Darwinia. Now they have come out with Multiwinia, which is essentially a multiplayer 
 expansion of sorts for Darwinia (though you don't need Darwinia to play Multiwinia) .
  
  It isn't nearly as good as DEFCON was, but Multiwinia still gets enough right to be recommendable.
 
  
  Multiwinia offers a total of 6 gameplay modes for up to 4 players (Either human or AI controlled) . 
 There is Domination (might as well be a deathmatch) , King of the Hill, Capture the Statue (Essentially 
 capture the flag) , Assault, Rocket Riot, and Blitzkrieg. This may sound like a decent ammount of 
 modes, but the problem here is that several of the modes are actually way too similar to each other. 
 For example, Rocket Riot might as well just be a more complex version of King of the Hill.
  
  As similar as the modes may be however, they're all fun thanks to Multiwinia's hectic gameplay 
 mechanics. You can command your multiwinians either directly or by creating officers to direct 
 them somewhere. 
  
  The basic selection of multiwinians can actually take a little getting used to if your used to 
 clicking-and-dragging, which isn't used in Multiwinia. Instead, when you click and hold somewhere, 
 a circle starts expanding outward, and any multiwinians in the circle are selected.
  
  Yes, it is notable that it feels like Multiwinia was designed as a console-RTS, but this isn't 
 a problem, because it doesn't take long to get used to this different selection scheme.
  
  The main twist offered by Multiwinia are it's crates, which offer players a number of powerups 
 such as nuke barrages (courtesy of DEFCON's Subs) , air strikes, virus eggs, dark forests, and more. 
 It's these crates that spice up Multiwinia's gameplay to a substantial degree, without completely 
 unbalancing the game. While they can be turned off, Multiwinia would have probably been a bit more 
 boring without them.
  
  Graphically, Multiwinia looks almost exactly like Darwinia did when it was released. This isn't 
 necesairly a bad thing, Multiwinia still gets to benefit from Darwinia's unique style and as a 
 result, looks decent. Multiwinia also uses the exact same sounds that Darwinia used.
  
  Ultimately, Multiwinia suffers from it's relatively disappointing selection of modes, but makes 
 up for it with some hectic and enjoyable gameplay. If you just want a bargain priced RTS, Multiwinia 
 is easily worth checking out.
  
  Pros:
  -Hectic, enjoyable gameplay
  -Stylish graphics
  -Decent ammount of modes
  -Decent AI
  -Bargain price tag
  
  Cons:
 
  -Modes are a bit too similar to each other.
  -No dedicated single player mode
  
  Nitpicks:
  -Has obviously been designed as a console RTS- but I'm not complaining. (It is being 
 released for 360 at least)
  
  Recommendable for: Hardcore RTS gamers may be turned off by Multiwinia's relative simplicity, but 
 the game mostly makes up for this with how hectic it is. Casual gamers looking for a bargain priced 
 RTS should not miss out on Multiwinia (It would also probably make for a great gateway RTS game) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: I-Fish
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 25, 2008 3:49 pm PT
Review:  Introverson's new Game, Multiwinia, has been up for Download for Five Days now, and I've been playing 
 it every minute from then to now.
  
  To describe Multiwinia.. Well, Think the 'Worms' series. Now Bring it into 3D, Rethink the 'Worms' 
 as Divisions of your massive amounts of Forces, and the Crates- Well, Keep the Crates. Multiwinia 
 is a Fast Paced RTS brought down to it's core essentials, no Resource Counters to Keep track of, 
 or Tech Trees to advance, it's just you, your objective, and your enemy in between.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  With each game, you either have a Spawn Point (Capturable by the Enemy) or a Trunk 
 Port (Not Capturable) , every now and again, these will Spawn anywhere from 10 (Spawns) to 40 (Trunk 
 Ports on Default) Multiwinians, the Backbone, Muscle, and Core of your forces. The Multiwinians 
 will simply roam around until you tell them otherwise. Within a game, thousands of these little 
 guys will spawn, and die in combat. As opposed to it's predecessor, Darwinia, the Multiwinians 
 can be commanded directly By Clicking and Holding the Left Mouse button, a Circle will emanate 
 from your mouse point, expanding and selecting all Multiwinians in the area, then they can be guided 
 to a area of your choice. Emphasis on 'Guided' because aside from telling them the general direction 
 where to head, their Behavior is completely autonomous, they move, they fight, they do most everything 
 on their own, which definitely helps in the control of the Hundreds of Men you will have on the 
 battlefield. Another method of ordering your Multiwinians is by promoting one of them with a right 
 click, this will promote them to officer, where they can do a little more. Officers are capable 
 of either staying put and telling any Multiwinians near them to go to a specific point on the map, 
 or, they can Order their forces into a Formation, which provides a tactical boost in that, Formed 
 Multiwinians are More Powerful against un-organized Multiwinians from the front on, but are slower 
 and can easily be flanked from behind, a Weakness that should be considered if you're surrounded.
 
  
  Aside from your forces, occasionally large Crates will fall from the sky (Much Like 'Worms) and 
 Land, if you surround your men around a crate, they will gradually open, and secure the crate's 
 contents. The various items inside can either turn the battle toward or against you, such as a 
 Manually placed Gun Turret that is Controlled by the Multiwinians on it, or a pinpointed Airstrike 
 to decimate the enemy numbers. There are also chances of negative contents of a crate, such as 
 a Plague that can spread from Multiwinian to Multiwinian, slowly consuming any closely-packed forces, 
 or Viruses from Darwinia appearing on the spot and decimating your forces.
  
  Six Game Modes exist thus far, Domination is a simple game mode where many Spawn Points are placed 
 on the map, and it is your goal to capture all Points and crush your opposition. King of the Hill 
 is self explanatory, multiple hills are placed on the map, and you receive points for each second 
 you have the majority of forces inside. Capture the statue is like a Game of Capture the flag, 
 but the Statues mentioned are extremely large and heavy, it takes near 50 Multiwinians to lift 
 and carry the statue and return it to base. Assault is a simple asymmetrical mode where an Attacking 
 team is attempting to prevent the Defending team's Bomb from detonating, Attackers Receive wave 
 after wave of reinforcements, while Defenders are Heavily Armed. Rocket Riot is a very Unique game 
 mode to Multiwinia, each team has a Rocket in their starting location, and they must capture solar 
 panels to power fuel generators to refuel the rocket, After the rocket is refueled they must load 
 the Rocket with 100 Multiwinians and Wait 10 seconds for their Rocket to Launch. Finally, Blitzkrieg, 
 much similar to Unreal Tournament 2004's Onslaught mode, requires you to capture and Link flags 
 in a line to the enemy's home base, and successfully capture it.
  
  Multiwinia's games are Fast paced as they typically only last from five to fifteen minutes, easily 
 able to fit within a lunch break. The only true skill required is a Tactical mind, and Luck. Multiwinia, 
 even with it's large scale battles, is designed to run on a Modest system on low graphics settings, 
 and even on low graphics settings, you won't be missing much of the Detail put into the game. Multiplayer 
 battles are very clean and minimal on lag. As far as Lasting fun, Multiwinian gives a good modest 
 while, Introversion will be updating with new features and maps (Perhaps even a Map Editor) , and 
 Will definitely be worth the 20$.
  
  There are only occasional problems which prevent me from rating this a 10, Lag does happen sometimes 
 when specific powerups are activated, and you may find it's control system unusual for an RTS (It's 
 more of an FPS Spectator Controlset) . But these minor problems do not dampen the gameplay even 
 slightly.
  
  If you're a RTS Fan looking for a 'Different' kind of game, or Simply a Casual Gamer looking to 
 spend a small amount of cash, you should definitely take a look at the Demo offered for this game, 
 as the Demo contains much of the elements of the main game, well, aside from online play. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
