-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Murder in the Abbey
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/murderintheabbey/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Cartoonish visuals add charm to this tale of monks and murders.
 Impressive voice acting.
 Puzzles make sense.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Very traditional adventure-game design.
 Cartoonish visuals don't entirely match up with the macabre storyline.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep  3, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 6.7, 15 Review (s)
User Score: 7.3, 88 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: DreamCatcher Interactive
Developer: Alcachofa Soft
Genre: Adventure
Date:     Aug 26, 2008
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Murder in the Abbey may not be entirely original, but it's an adventure with a lot of personality. 
 

  The odd combination of monks and murder has been a staple of whodunit fiction for decades, so the 
 biggest mystery here is why somebody didn't come up with an adventure game like Murder in the Abbey 
 (known in Europe as simply The Abbey) before now. Developer Crimson Cow delivers a solid take on 
 the murderous monastery minigenre, too, thanks to a smart story and impressively painted scenery 
 populated by cartoonish characters reminiscent of graphic novels. Unimaginative puzzles and some 
 overwritten dialogue make your sleuthing tedious at times, although the adventure still delivers 
 a gripping, sharp-looking trip back to the Middle Ages.  

           Any resemblance to the Last Supper is surely coincidental.      

  However, if you're 
 looking for something with the faintest hint of originality, you might want to look elsewhere. 
 This utter lack of imagination extends to the storyline, a good chunk of which has been rather 
 liberally scarfed from  The Name of the Rose . Here you play Brother Leonardo of Toledo, a monk 
 sent to deliver his teenage sidekick Bruno to the Nuestra Senora de la Natividad Abbey for study 
 with the resident monks. Unfortunately, dark, dastardly murder interferes with this kiddie drop-off. 
 Someone tries to kill Leonardo and Bruno on their way into the monastery by rolling a boulder onto 
 them, Wile E. Coyote-style, and the duo then discover that a monk has recently died in a mysterious 
 fashion. Given that Leonardo is basically Sherlock Holmes with a tonsure, right down to his nearly 
 supernatural powers of observation that let him figure out nearly everything about everybody from 
 just the briefest glance, he sets out to solve the mystery of the murdered monk.  

  Gameplay is focused almost entirely on interrogating monks like the usual adventure-game gumshoe, 
 as well as collecting useful objects. There are just a couple of set-piece logic puzzles in Murder 
 in the Abbey, and these are basic brainteasers in which you slide tiles around to form a picture 
 and click on faces on a bas-relief to open a secret door. Carrying conversations and picking up 
 whatever isn't nailed down are the cornerstones of your investigations. Most of the riddles here 
 are based on common sense, at any rate, which keeps the game out of need-a-walkthrough land. Considering 
 that you don't have to worry about the absurd leaps of logic that are all too common to old-school 
 adventure games, you need to concentrate on your surroundings and simply grab items that have a 
 reasonably obvious purpose. So when a key falls out of a book, you know to scoop it up. Spot some 
 gunpowder? Ditto. Run across an icon of the Virgin Mary? Pocket that, too.  

  After you've done all of your junk-collecting, all that's left is a straightforward assessment 
 of your situation and experimenting with combinations of objects until you find out what works. 
 It's all very formulaic, and your time will be filled up with old-fashioned "You scratch my back, 
 I'll scratch yours" jobs and a ton of busywork in scrounging for items needed to push the plot 
 forward. As an example, at one point early on in chapter one, you need a document translated. The 
 monk who can do it is really busy, though, so he puts you off until next week, complaining that 
 he is so backlogged that he hasn't been able to eat and is faint with hunger. So you trot off to 
 the kitchen, where you recently chatted with a monk who is cooking up a delicious soup, and, well, 
 the rest pretty much writes itself. Most puzzles are as elementary as adding two plus two, although 
 some are a bit obtuse. Key plot points are occasionally buried in dense dialogue passages. Some 
 tasks require such an incredible amount of busywork that it's easy to get lost in all of the annoying 
 minutiae. For instance, making the sleeping potion is an amazingly long and dull procedure that 
 was apparently included simply to lengthen the game. Regardless, veteran adventure gamers should 
 be able to wrap up their role as medieval Kojak in no more than a couple of evenings of heavy play. 

           Although the character artwork is certainly stylish, at times it seems a little too childish 
 for a gloomy murder mystery.      

  The look and sound of the game is more remarkable. Realistic characters and backdrops have been 
 replaced with colorful, almost Disney-like animation and scenery. This gives the monastery and 
 its denizens a lot of added character via the bulbous noses and exaggerated expressions common 
 to kiddie comic books. At times this seems rather incongruous. Such a lighthearted atmosphere lends 
 the game a "Richie Rich Goes to the Middle Ages" vibe that isn't exactly appropriate for a grim 
 tale about murder and Satanism. Bruno's pop-eyed wonder is particularly off-putting here; he looks 
 so innocent and cheerful that you think he must have been dropped in from a game about floating 
 castles and elves. Nevertheless, such unique art makes the game stand out from the crowd, and you 
 can't quibble with the beauty of the painted backgrounds, especially when outdoors at dawn. At 
 least the voice acting perfectly fits the material. Roles are well spoken, with all actors possessing 
 the clipped British accents that always make these period pieces seem more authentic. They also 
 speak with just the right touches of gravitas and humor, which accentuates the forbidding monastery 
 setting and builds an unsettling atmosphere in which it seems like everyone has something to hide. 

  Attitude and attractiveness are the two biggest characteristics of Murder in the Abbey. Although 
 the pilfered plot won't win any points for creativity, the sensible puzzles and the cheerful charm 
 of the presentation are enough to win you over.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (3 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: godziv
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 1, 2009 5:59 pm PT
Review:  The Abbey is a game that is very short. Perfect for a weekend that you want to stay in. The graphics 
 are well done and the cartoon atmosphere is well done.
  
  The Abbey area itself is very limited . Meaning that you have to go to the same buildings all the 
 time and there isn't a lot of them. There is a lot of talking and i mean A LOT!
  
  Some of it is very interesting but sometimes it is so long that you feel you aint progressing at 
 all. It feels like you are watching a movie and you aint dong anything at some point.
  
  It is not a bad game but it is not great either. It is a game you will not play again that is for 
 sure.
  
  If you see it on sale , i got it for 1.99$ , well it is worth it of course. I wouldn't pay more 
 than 9.99$ for it for sure.
  
  If you like adventure games , it might be worth trying , but be warned , it talks a lot!
  
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: loki_rj
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 18, 2008 8:35 pm PT
Review:  I remember when I was thirteen years old and picked up a copy of Umberto Eco's 'The Name of the 
 Rose', only to drop the book before the end of the first chapter after more than a dozen untraslated 
 latin expressions. Still, I've gotten around to reading it afterwards and simply fell in love with 
 the story. It's as dark, murky, devlish as medieval novels get, with Brothers William and Adso 
 the Holmes and Watson of the dark ages. So deep in my mind, I always believed the story had the 
 makings of a great thriller adventure game, the gruesome nature of its crimes and the sheer logic 
 of its investigations seemed made for a point and click story. So when my cousin finally sent me 
 a copy of Murder in the Abbey (or simply 'The Abbey') the game premise seemed to somewhat fit into 
 a 'Name of the Rose'-esque plotline. After about ten minutes into the game, you get the feeling 
 it's more than a simple case of a game following an idea. Murder in the Abbey pretty damned near 
 copies it at times.
  
  Now, if you consider a game taking a litterary giant as a role-model, the least you can expect 
 is a decent plot, right? Well, Murder in the Abbey delivers just that. What's the problem, though? 
 It's that at times it feels like every in-game dialogue, every bit of investigation you make, is 
 just a toned down interpretation of Eco's classic (after all, the book is anything but an easy 
 read) , a means to get a richly crafted work into a wider crowd (despite many differences, after 
 all I doubt the guys at Alcachofa Soft are looking for a law-suit) . The story, instead of leading 
 you through your own logical progression, pretty much presents every solution to every problem 
 once a puzzle or an inventory-based challenge is overcome, so the few enough puzzles usually 'jump 
 the gun' and tell you the logical conclusion before you arrived at it with your own mind. Such 
 conclusions, bear in mind, are often the level of Holmes' observation-based deductions, you know, 
 the old 'I know what you did your entire life because of the dust on your shoes' type of comment. 
 You feel more as an spectator than an actual character, intervening in timely moments to solve 
 a few riddles or puzzles. Most inventory-based aspect are trial-and-error, which pretty much means: 
 try every combination, even if it takes you an hour just to open a doorway.
  
  In a final comment about the plot, leading also to voice acting: the character Bruno isn't even 
 worthy of the title 'based on Adso of Melk'. The donkey he rides on appears to have more brain 
 cells than him, and more often than not he is only there to complicate the life of his master, 
 Leonardo. That, added to some of the most irritating voice actings I've ever come across in an 
 adventure game, to the point it's clear that this is nothing but a single adult man trying really 
 hard to make his voice seem fragile and child-like, makes him a character that does little else 
 than annoy you for 90% of the game, and more than that actually, but let's not ruin the experience. 
 
  
  The voice acting is... different. While many of the characters' speeches will sell perfectly, such 
 as Leonardo's, many of them will sound strange, to the point you're almost certain half the characters 
 are voiced by a single individual, trying his best to stretch his voice in as many different ways 
 as possible. Combined with a distinctively lack of emotion in some of the characters, particularly 
 during moments of bigger 'tension', it fails to trully immerse you in a sinister plot.
  
  Another contributing factor to such lack of an actual game 'feeling', is the stylized graphics, 
 which immediately reminded me of good ol' Dragon's Lair. While many will praise them, myself included, 
 for their originality, they don't fit well into the sinister plot. While the characters are trully 
 diversified and richly crafted, almost every single one of them seems too 'friendly', to the point 
 that when Leonardo is interrogating them you can't shake the feeling that the guy is pestering 
 with a bunch of old men. 
  
  With such comments, you can expect me to give this game a 2.0 score or something, right? Well, 
 it's actually deserving of a 6.0, for the sheer fact that if you don't mind simply observing endless 
 bits of conversation, after all, the game's main premise is about interrogating suspects, you will 
 get enough satisfaction to keep you firmly on your seat, albeit never at its edge. The script is 
 beautifully written, again noting that if fails to fit into the cartoon-esque graphs, but enthralling 
 enough to keep you interested. My guess is that if you haven't read 'The Name of the Rose' you'll 
 enjoy this game a lot more than I did. For me, it was a bit of a let-down that it took so much 
 from such a classic book but failed to actually take a step further, such as less 'pretty, charismatic 
 characters' and more 'witty, intelligent' individuals who'll aswer you with more than nervous stutters.
 
  
  The evil storyline falls short on its execution. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Melly38
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 17, 2008 1:32 am PT
Review:  Could have been a really good game. It was nice to look at and some of the puzzles were fun and 
 challenging... but... there was unending, uninteresting dialoge. I would have much preferred some 
 more sleuthing and time exploring the tunnels. There was not a lot to actually look at or interact 
 with either. Bottom line, as well done as the graphics were and being relatively bug free I would 
 normaly have had a good time with this game. Instead, I couldn't wait to finish it and right clicked 
 through most of the last 1/4 of the games dialogue just to get it over with. Didn't care what happened 
 in the end which was completely predictable anyway. If I wanted to watch dark cartoons I'm sure 
 there is a TV channel I could turn on and that is what I got out of this. A somewhat interactive 
 cartoon on a non relavent subject. Sad. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
