-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: MVP Baseball 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sports/mvpbaseball2004/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 16, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.3
Critic Score: 8.0, 10 Review (s)
User Score: 8.4, 249 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Sports
Genre: Baseball Sim
Date:     Mar 9, 2004
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Don't think too much about statistics, and you'll be rewarded with enjoyable hardball that often 
 bears a strong resemblance to the national pastime. 

  Even though EA Sports has come a long way since the dark days of Triple Play, the company isn't 
 ready to touch 'em all yet. MVP Baseball 2004 gets most of the big-picture stuff right -- like pitching 
 and batting mechanics -- and it has a hardball feel that's very close to that of High Heat in its 
 prime. However, somehow the developers have managed to screw up enough little things to unsettle 
 most serious baseball fans. This is mostly a great game on the field, but it lacks a certain degree 
 of authenticity. As a result, players will long for the improvements that EA will undoubtedly introduce 
 next year.  

          Batting animations have been perfectly captured. You can even see Carlos Delgado leaning 
 into pitches and cocking his right leg before unleashing a swing.     

  For right now, however, the current game is enough to please casual arcade sports gamers. On the 
 surface, MVP Baseball 2004 is an impressive effort, and it's reminiscent of classics like Stormfront 
 Studios' Tony LaRussa line and 3DO's High Heat. It certainly is an improvement over last year's 
 inaugural edition of the series, mostly because EA has spent the last 12 months refining the gameplay 
 and adding a number of features -- like making it possible to warm up pitchers in the bullpen, visit 
 the mound, and trade with computer teams -- that were omitted the last time around.  

  Depth has been enhanced across the board, with an eye toward courting the attention of baseball 
 management simmers. In addition to exhibition games, online multiplayer, editable scenarios, hitter 
 and pitcher challenges, and loads of unlockable stadiums, uniforms, and players, dynasty play now 
 stretches to 120 seasons. EA has taken a hint from its comprehensive FIFA soccer series (which 
 boasts something like 500 teams and 10,000 players in its latest edition) and has included rosters 
 from every AA and AAA minor league club in North America. Having the ability to send down projects 
 and call up prospects makes fantasy league play feel much more genuine than it did in MVP Baseball 
 2003. The same goes for the greater attention to clubhouse shenanigans. One of the most important 
 meters to watch now monitors player happiness, so you have to keep everybody smiling. Fail to give 
 a pitcher the innings he wants and you might end up with him sulking at the end of the bench.  
 

  On-field action also features more options. There is a manage-only mode available when you want 
 to step away from the arcade action. Games here play out much like in text-based baseball management 
 simulations. You can even go back to the gamepad whenever things get interesting -- if you ever put 
 down the pad in the first place, that is. EA Sports BIG controls now allow players to utilize console-styled 
 gamepads with dual analog sticks. This gives you manual control over sliding, diving for balls, 
 and even going up on the wall to snatch back homers. You really get the feeling that you're in 
 a complete ball game rather than just going through the motions of pitching and hitting.  

          Neat frills, like player dissatisfaction, have been added to dynasty mode, but long-term 
 play has some issues with player fatigue and the development of prospects.     

  That's not to say that there is anything wrong with stepping onto the mound or into the batter's 
 box. Pitcher-versus-batter confrontations are stellar. The pitching meter gives you more control 
 than the select-pitch/select-location method used by other baseball games. It still feels a little 
 odd to be pitching in a manner similar to how you would swing a club in golf games, though you 
 sure can't argue with the way this pitching style ramps up the game's tension. Misfire here and 
 your mistake will likely end up in the seats. Individual at bats play out in compelling fashion 
 as well, although default settings are tweaked for higher offensive numbers. Gameplay-tuning allows 
 you to make on-field play more realistic. For example, you can adjust the likelihood of batters 
 making contact, power ratings, throwing speed, and so on (although don't expect to have a lot of 
 pitcher's duels here) .     

  Even though the control system practically screams attention to detail, there remain some strange 
 omissions. All position players have ungodly levels of stamina. Barring injury, every nonpitching 
 starter on your roster plays all 162 games -- even catchers. And since injuries don't occur too often 
 (though, oddly, there are a lot of long suspensions for on-field brawls) , many players will break 
 Cal Ripken's consecutive games-played mark within 14 seasons of starting a dynasty. However, it's 
 not as if these numbers are tracked. Season stats are routinely wiped clean before the playoffs, 
 so don't expect to look back fondly on banner years.  

          Broadcast-quality cameras swivel around and catch the action from numerous angles. Every 
 hit that goes for multiple bases is rewarded with an in-depth replay that often includes park-specific 
 features, like Houston's      

  Computer managers make some dumb decisions. The AI doesn't know how to pinch hit. A pitcher often 
 goes to the plate in the top of an inning and gets pulled before taking the mound in the bottom. 
 There's a pathological reluctance to send runners with the pitch, no matter the situation. Two 
 outs, a man on second, and a full count on the batter. Expect to see that runner anchored to his 
 base until bat meets ball. Even worse, runners take a long time to get going on liners that stand 
 the slightest chance of being caught. So when these balls do drop in for hits, an outfielder can 
 usually gun these base runners down at second or third base.  

  Dynasty mode is wonky as well. We simmed our way through a half-dozen seasons and never developed 
 a single good hitting prospect. Even the top sluggers maxed out at around .260, with pathetic power 
 and cranking out maybe 20 round-trippers in their better seasons. This is arguably better than 
 recruiting a clubhouse full of A-Rods every year, though a lot of the fun in scouting and drafting 
 during a dynasty is ruined since you can guarantee how draft picks are going to turn out. The same 
 goes for trading. Once all of the real major leaguers of the 2004 season have retired, there isn't 
 much point in swapping one also-ran for another.  

  One area you don't have to worry about is presentation. Visuals are of extremely high quality throughout, 
 perfectly capturing the Major League ballparks and the facial features of all the top players. 
 Animations are particularly well handled, both at the plate and in the field. Movements are very 
 smooth, even if a touch slowed-down to enable the undeniable coolness factor involved with watching 
 someone take a mighty cut or stretch for a ball in slow motion. It's not wholly realistic, but 
 it does add to the drama. Video frills are also included for useful purposes, because you access 
 most in-game functions by opening windows. You can even look into the opposing dugout or the bullpen 
 this way. Best of all, a top-down window over the batter's box opens up when you're in front or 
 behind pitches, so you always know how much to slow down or speed up your swing.  

  Play-by-play men Duane Kuiper and Mike Krukow are the highlights of the audio. Each comments on 
 what's taking place on the field and adds stat information about batters. Atmospheric sound effects 
 put you in the middle of stadiums. Crowd noise swirls, team-specific chants go up, and the crack 
 of the bat sounds like a gunshot. Soundtrack quality is up and down, though, due to too much reliance 
 on indie-style teen punk bands, like the Von Bondies and Steriogram.  

          Unlike most EA Sports titles, you can forgo arcade gaming for strategizing, and you can 
 even manage games that feature a text-based interface. You can always stop managing and jump into 
 the action at any time too.     

  As good as MVP Baseball 2004 can be, it is also pretty frustrating. Every time you get going with 
 a dynasty, put together a winning streak in August, or simply get into a groove with the intricate 
 pitching interface, some glaring problem, like the absence of a strikeout in your last three games, 
 shocks you back to reality. But even with these issues, you can't argue with the way the game performs 
 on the field. Don't think too much about statistics, and you'll be rewarded with enjoyable hardball 
 that often bears a strong resemblance to the national pastime.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (18 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: LuDaDJ
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 7, 2009 10:12 am PT
Review:  Last year EA Sports revamped their line of baseball simulations with a solid first entry in a new 
 series, MVP Baseball 2003. MVP Baseball 2004 takes last year's game, and improves on it without 
 breaking anything that went right.
  
  Everything great about MVP Baseball 2003 is back. The graphics look sharper, and the Xbox version 
 has 720p support. It is a pleasure to see actual stadiums and players resemble their real world 
 counterparts, and the visuals absolutely trump those in 2K's offering this year, ESPN Major League 
 Baseball. Dynamic scoreboards show replays and the actual in game score. Animation is smooth, with 
 no jerky transitions. Even the sore point of any sports game, the crowd graphics, look better, 
 and are animated with accompanying cheering sounds. The sound is again excellent, with Duane Kiper 
 and Mike Krukow returning to do commentary. Just like last year, fans will shout out player specific 
 phrases.
  
  The pitching, hitting, and fielding mechanics which worked well in last year's game return fully 
 intact, with a few additions. MVP uses meters to control pitching and throwing. Hitting works the 
 same, and involves moving the left thumbstick in the zone corresponding to where the pitch is thrown. 
 The strike zone is broken down into red and blue areas corresponding to your hitter's hot and cold 
 zones. Mistake pitches tip you off to where the pitch will be thrown, and you can swing accordingly. 
 These provide you the best opportunity to hit home runs.
  
  Hitting may take some time to get used to, as pitch speeds are more realistic in this game than 
 any other. Fastballs bear down on you quickly, and CPU pitchers will throw off your timing by changing 
 speeds. It seems like EA Sports wanted to incorporate looking or guessing for pitches into the 
 gameplay, and they did it well. I found the Xbox version to be more difficult than the PC version, 
 as it seems fastballs move faster, and the pitching meters are harder to time correctly. Overall, 
 MVP Baseball 2004 is more difficult than last year's game.
  
  The right thumbstick now plays a more prominent part in gameplay. When fielding, it is used for 
 diving catches and to climb the outfield wall. For baserunning, it is used to control sliding, 
 whether to slide feet first or head first, and for knocking the catcher over. While batting, the 
 right thumbstick allows you to adjust your runners' leadoffs.
  
  Outside of exhibition games, there is Dynasty mode, which is the only option available if you want 
 to play a season. Unfortunately, the number of games cannot be customized. Other game modes include 
 the mini games Home Run Showdown and the new Pitcher Showdown. Home Run Showdown pits two batters 
 against each other, with the goal to be the first to accumulate a set distance by hitting home 
 runs. In Pitcher Showdown, two pitchers try to be the first to strike out a set number of batters. 
 Rounding out the game modes are Manager Mode, which is an interesting text based simulation, and 
 Scenario Editor, which allows you to customize a situation, with variables such as pitcher on the 
 mound, current batter, baserunners, current inning and score, and then allows you to play from 
 that situation.
  
  There are a host of new features in MVP Baseball 2004. As mentioned before, the right thumbstick 
 factors into gameplay more. Also, bullpen options have been added, so you can warm up pitchers. 
 Intentional walks can be executed now, not forcing you to throw four straight pitches out of the 
 strike zone as in last year's game. Pitch history can now be brought up on command, and this feature 
 even lets you review previous at bats as well. Check swings are now incorporated, and seems to 
 be determined by the pressure sensitivity of the swing button. There is now also a rewards system 
 in place. Accomplishing different tasks in different modes rewards you with points that you can 
 use to unlock MVP rewards, such as retro ballparks, jerseys, players, and teams. These kinds of 
 tasks include hitting two home runs with the same player in a game, stealing third base, beating 
 a certain team in their home stadium, or beating certain players in the Home Run Showdown and Pitcher 
 Showdown modes.
  
  However, perhaps the biggest addition is the inclusion of Triple-A and Double-A teams for each 
 major league club. This really brings added value to the game, and is like having another game 
 within a game. Playing minor league games is a real treat. The atmosphere is completely different, 
 as the stadiums are smaller, and even the crowd sounds are different, reflecting the smaller crowds 
 and close up feeling of a minor league game.
  
  In addition to the new features, MVP Baseball 2004 it fixes a few things, such as fielders facing 
 the wrong way when catching pop ups. There are still a few issues, such as the times when the game 
 doesn't select the best fielder for you to make the play once a ball is hit into play, and it doesn't 
 autoswitch to another fielder if he is closer to the ball. The frequency of the CPU hitting triples 
 on balls hit to the gaps is a bit questionable, as this happens fairly often. However, the CPU 
 doesn't seem to steal bases at all.
  
  MVP Baseball 2003 was a great game, and MVP Baseball 2004 stands out as a polished and refined 
 version of it, retaining all the things that made it great and improving on it. All this results 
 in what may be the best baseball video game ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: piratesmvp
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 9, 2008 2:26 pm PT
Review:  This review is for MVP Baseball 2008, which is available now on www. eamods. com. MVP 2008 is a total 
 conversion mod for MVP 04. This mod changes the whole gameplay from the ground up. The uniforms 
 and stadiums are the main areas that have been drastically improved. Below are the features as 
 listed on the website:
  
  "*Rosters as accurate as 3/27/2008!
  *Accurate 2008 schedules for all MLB teams!
  *Complete 2007 Player Portraits of MLB and MiLB 
 players!
  *New High Resolution Team Jerseys of all MLB and some MiLB teams!
  *Accurate stadiums with real ads for 20 MLB teams!
  *More realistic crowd sounds that make the 
 game sound more like real baseball!
  *Montreal Expos changed to Washington Nationals!
  *Tampa Bay Devil Rays renamed Tampa Bay Rays!
  *Anaheim Angels renamed Los Angeles Angels!
 
  *High resolution baseball and Louisville Slugger, Easton, and Rawlings bats!
  *New Pittsburgh Pirates cyberfaces: Adam LaRoche, Freddy Sanchez, Jason Bay, & Ian Snell!
  *New 
 MLB on FOX overlay!"
  
  The rosters are dead on for the 08 season, and the accurate 2008 schedule will let you play the 
 same opponents your favorite teams are playing. The graphics for the stadiums, uniforms, gloves, 
 bats, and much more are completely improved over the original MVP 04.
  
  Another main area is the total conversion of the Montreal Expos to the Nationals. The Expos have 
 been renamed Nationals and they have Nats uniforms. The only problem is that the mod does not include 
 the new Nationals Park, and the announcers still refer to them as the Expos.
  
  Although this mod is very good, there are some problems with it. As mentioned, the Nationals still 
 play in Montreal and are referred to as the Expos. Other little audio glitches include the Rays 
 being called the Devil Rays and the Angels being referred to as from Anaheim. The mod is also missing 
 many player audio. The mod also does not have 10 stadiums for the MLB teams.
  The new cyberfaces in the mod also are not perfect at all. The faces look like they were glued 
 to the head, and the coloration does not match some of the neck color.
  
  Aside from that, though, this mod is great upgrade for gamers who still play MVP 04, and I highly 
 recommend it to anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pt99866
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 16, 2005 10:57 am PT
Review:  MVP Baseball 2004. What can I say. There has never been a time I played baseball on any console 
 and liked it. My All Star Baseball 2004 for PS2 had some major problems in the batting and pitching 
 interface. The game was also graphically challenged in my opinion. I also rented High Heat for 
 XBOX, and all I can say is that I had to wash my eyes, fingers and mouth after playing it. At last 
 ASB 2001 for the Nintendo 64 quenched my thirst for a satisfiying video game, but not a single 
 portion of the game made me jump up in excitement and squeal like a 5 year old girl.
  After all those disappointments, I went out and grabbed a surprisingly cheap copy of MVP Baseball 
 2004 ($9.99) . Immediately after arriving at home, I inserted the disk of MVP and installed in 5 
 minutes flat. I then proceeded to start the game.
  First, I went to Roster Management and created myself with ratings of 100 and 99. Next, I saved 
 him and signed him to the Dodgers. Then, I went back to Roster Management and filled my Dodger 
 roster with players like: Nomar Garciaparra, Derek Jeter, Gary Sheffield, Manny Ramirez, Kevin 
 Brown, Kurt Schilling, Pedro Martinez and many more All-Star caliber players. I then saved the 
 roster.
  I then went to Dynasty mode and simmed the first half of the season.
  Dodgers:67-14
  The next quarter of the season I managed the games. This mode I think was the 
 best part of the game. It was off the charts!! You get to control what you're players do like: 
 Swing away, bunt, hit and run, pitch batter, pitch out, walk batter and many more. 
  The final quarter of the season, I played, and got the real feel of the game. The graphics were 
 a million times better than any game I had played, except for the ESPN series. The crowd sounded 
 very real, you could actually here them chanting" Let's go Dodgers, let's go!!" and "Beat the Cubs, 
 beat the Cubs!!". The batting is super fun, and the pitching too. the pitching method is obviously 
 different than other baseball games, the meter is similar to golf games. I did this until the end 
 of the season.
  Dodgers: 107-54
  I then simmed the playoffs and ended up as World Champion! Muahahahahahaha!
  I saved my Dynasty 
 and exited to the Main menu. I tried out the other game modes too, which were pretty cool. 
  Overall, I think this is the best PC sports game made, hands down!
  
  P. S.: I loved the menu 
 music!!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: miklifton
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 19, 2005 6:29 pm PT
Review:  MVP Baseball 2004 is the best baseball game of 2004. I liked everything about this game. Well, 
 not everything. There were two things that really bothered me. One is the fact that its hard to 
 hit home runs and nearly impossible with left handed batters. The other thing that I didnt like 
 was part of the defense. They would count a play as an error when it clearly wasnt. That really 
 bothered me. Other than those two things this game was great. What made it better was that it had 
 my favorite player on the cover. The graphics were nice and the sound was okay. I think it is the 
 best baseball game of 2004. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheShelobMan
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 28, 2004 6:59 am PT
Review:  MVP Baseball 2004 is simply the best baseball game I've played. Still, I do have some complaints 
 about it. Mainly gameplay and graphics-wise, but that is only because no game is perfect, and neither 
 is this one.
  
  Gameplay: The batter - pitcher interface is fun to use and that is really all you need to know. 
 
  Although it is made for console or gamepad controls it is still easy to use with the keyboard. 
 In the game timing is everything if you are batting, which of course is more realistic than the 
 concept of the quality of your swing. The ball in this game has great physics and can go anywhere 
 on the field. There are pop ups that go straight up and fall into the catcher's glove, also there 
 are infield fly's, strikeouts in which the catcher has to throw you out at first, strikeouts on 
 check-swings, and other situations that indicate that EA paid a lot of attention to detail. As 
 far as game modes are concerned there are no surprises here. Dynasty mode is pretty bad like most 
 people claim, but it is still playable. The pitcher showdown is addictive (I beat every pitcher 
 in the majors with Esteban Loaiza) , but the Home Run showdown is way too hard. 
  
  Graphics: The animations are good but a little too frequent and repetitive. I would have definetly 
 liked the crowd to be a bit better than it is, and it is strange how Madden has awesome crowds 
 and MVP has really bad ones. Maybe the Madden team should work on the MVP crowds. The player models 
 and stances are good and the stances are really different, and some player specific ones too. 
 
  
  Sound: My only complaint is with the crowd always being loud even when you play the expos at home. 
 The crowd graphically is not very big, but it is as loud as the Yankees crowd , which hopefully 
 will change with next year's release. Also the color guy keeps saying "BIG BOY!" which gets so 
 annoying that I want to mute him sometimes.
  
  Value: With MVP rewards the game really has something that drives you to play instead of manage 
 and sim, which definetly brings playing time up! That means dynasty mode will really take some 
 time.
  
  Tilt: The best I have ever played, but like with every game there is still room for improvement. 
 I can't wait for next year's version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scottishhaig
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 19, 2004 11:38 am PT
Review:  Not much as changed in MVP 2004 from last year's 2003 version. Still a great game of baseball and 
 I like the ability to alter your players and team (s) as much or as little as you like. The only 
 complaint I have from the 2003 version is the difficulty at hitting the ball. Even with a highly 
 skilled player I can rarely hit home runs like I did in 2003 and the 'full swing control' or whatever 
 isn't really evident to me. I don't spend a lot of time in trying to learn sports games in-depth 
 since I only play them for a nice break from the normal genre I do play, but overall MVP 2004 is 
 a great example of baseball... I'm sure I'll be buying 2005 when it comes out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarthMegalon
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 9, 2004 4:17 pm PT
Review:  Although not the most authentic "feeling" baseball game on the market, this game is definately 
 a lot of fun to play. With the exception of occasional choppy animation (ball flight is rarely 
 smooth to watch, even on my radeon 9800 pro) , the graphics are top notch. Stadium sounds are great, 
 annoucers are pretty good, music is so-so. I love player and team specific crowd chants, there 
 is just enough of it to not be overused and annoying. 
  
  Game modes are great, dynasty keeps me coming back for more, whether to play or manage or just 
 sim. The unlockable items via mvp points are great, I kinda wished there were more players to be 
 unlocked though. The throwing meter is probably my favorite part of the mvp baseball series, it 
 adds a depth to pitching that is missing in a lot of baseball games.
  
  Overall a great game, I'd recommend it to anyone with even a passing interest in baseball gaming. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cardozo
Rating: 5.6
Date: Apr 13, 2004 12:17 pm PT
Review:  One Step Forward, Two Steps Back.
  
  There's a good game in there somewhere! I'm sure of it! However, I don't like to pay $40 for a 
 game that I basically have to finish the programming on. The only thing that makes this game even 
 playable in it released condition is the extensive mod community. If it were not for sites live 
 MVPMods and OS we would be out of luck on this one.
  
  The biggest problem with this game is that it takes one step forward over last year (in terms of 
 gameplay and control) but takes two huge steps backwards in terms of unacceptable bugs. Let me 
 list just a few:
  
  1. The CPU NEVER steals.
  2. Left handed batters NEVER hit homeruns (a physics problem with the game has been admitted to 
 by EA) .
  3. The graphics chop and stutter even at 60 FPS (this is by far the worst problem) .
  4. CPU bullpen 
 warns up in the fourth inning of EVERY game; even if the current pitcher is not fatigued and is 
 throwing a no hitter!
  5. In dynasty mode, players stop progressing after the first full season.
  
  Now, the mod community 
 has done a lot to correct these problems but have not yet been able to tackles the graphical choppiness 
 or the lefty bug. As usual, EA is tight lipped about these problems and isn't admitting anything. 
 However, the rumor is that there is a second patch in the works that "may" address some of these 
 glitches. But, given that Gamespot doesn't evenhave a link to the first patch (which didn't fix 
 a thing) goes to show how seriously people take EA's efforts at correcting problems.
  
  I am very disappointed with the fact that this game wasn't complete even at the most basic level. 
 Is it possible that the testers didn't notice that the CPU doesn't steal or that left handers can't 
 drive the ball? Or that the bullpen warms up at odd times? These bugs were known. But look at the 
 release date . . . EA needed revenue to start off the second quarter and push the stock price. 
 Well, I guess they do have a fiduciary duty to shareholders. So I guess unless you own stock in 
 EA, you'll have to wait for a patch to get your money's worth.
  
  Cardozo 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eliasgames
Rating: 4.7
Date: Apr 13, 2004 11:19 am PT
Review:  Wonderful graphics and good sound. The physics of the game are smooth and life like.
  
  Why so low a score? I have to purchase a new game controller. I have a Trustmaster Firestorm Dual 
 Analog 3 controller. The game has a selection of about eight controllers including the keyboard. 
 Logitech controllers make up 3 or 4 of the choices. NO MICROSOFT controllers (I don't have one, 
 but they are popular) . No generic gamepad choice. They obviously did this on purpose. Can you spell 
 C O L L U S I O N? Since the late '90s EA and Sierra have continously dissapointed me with various 
 compatibility issues.
  
  I suggest that you borrow a friend's game before purchasing one of your own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nunyerbiz
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 9, 2004 11:36 am PT
Review:  Good game, but has yet to reach the overall standard set by the High Heat franchise in it's heyday. 
 
  
  I'm an old-school High Heat player and in my opinion it's 2001/2002 releases are still the best 
 overall baseball games ever released on any platform. However, with the demise of 3d0, EA Sports' 
 MVP franchise is the only game in town. While it manages to do alot of things right, it's still 
 not a true Grand Slam. 
  
  Gameplay: Good control, a nice batter/picher interface and a tons of extras go along way, but the 
 overall experience is only good, not great. The game is still heavily slanted to the offensive 
 side of the ball. Pitcher duels and strikeouts are sorely under represented. Even if you tweak 
 gameplay settings, the game just never seems to "feel" right. I really can't put my finger on it, 
 but this is the only major spot where MVP still falls short of the 3 year old HH2001. On paper, 
 MVP is superior in pretty much every aspect. Still, that non-concrete aura of baseball that High 
 Heat seemed to nail seems a bit off here. Don't get me wrong, gameplay is enjoyable and very well 
 done... it just that you're never fully drawn into the experience. There are at least 5 or 6 times 
 per game when the "This is only a video game" gremlin knocks you over the head. (Mainly CPU AI 
 issues) With the old High Heat series, you felt like you were playing an actual baseball game the 
 vast majority of the time. (That wasn't perfect either, but at least that AI new when to send their 
 runners)
  
  Graphics: Simply beautiful. Some of the "Dramatic slow-mo animations" struck me as a bit over the 
 top, but that's a minor gripe. The player models, stadiums and effects are all top notch. Sure, 
 the fans in the seats aren't going to fool anyone, but does anybody really care about that?
  
  Sound: It's a bit difficult for me to make a legitimate comment here, as most of the time I 
 listen to music while playing and mute the PC. In my limited exposure to the sounds effects, everything 
 was well done. The announcers weren't annoying and didn't seem that repetitive. The ambient sounds 
 and crowd noise were excellent. 
  
  Value: The pure amounts of modes and extras will undoubtedly give many players alot of replay time. 
 I usually spend 90% of my time in the Dynasty mode. It's well done for the most part. While there 
 are alot of bells and whistles, it's still lacking when compared to the High Heat series (alright, 
 I'll stop beating that comparision into the ground) The console driven interface is definately 
 a letdown. Tons of clicking back and forth to do relatively mundane day to day tasks is the norm. 
 Menus like this are a necessary evil in the console world, but is it really that hard to develop 
 a PC-unique interface? A simple "spreadsheet" format using Times New Roman font would be just fine. 
 Overall however, the Dynasty mode is well done and is definately a step in the right direction 
 for a franchise looking to move more towards the sim market.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: Ok, I know I've come across as a rabid High Heat fanboy, but I don't mean to take 
 anything away from MVP 2004. In it's own right, it's a solid baseball game. Tons of features, great 
 control and graphics go along way. I think it's still lacking in some of the more intricate aspects 
 of baseball (CPU AI, general "feel" of gameplay) . Still, it's a great step in the right direction. 
 I only hope EA continues to push the franchise towards more realistic baseball and gives us High 
 Heat refugees a game to keep coming back to year after year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lucius_Scipio
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 30, 2004 9:59 am PT
Review:  MVP Baseball 2004 provides a very solid and enjoyable experience during game play. It does not 
 however provide the high quaility dynasty experience that I have come to enjoy with Madden 2004. 
 
  
  The game gives one a great feeling of immersion. The music, player models and quirks for each player 
 make the game addictive and fun. You have to approach each game in a strategic manner since it's 
 not a cake walk (unless you play in Rookie mode) . These are the things that make it into a very 
 good game and a recommended buy. 
  
  However, the game it isn't worth playing the game more than 3 or 4 seasons. I haven't seen a single 
 hot minor league prospect develop into an all-star material player in the entire game. I've read 
 in other places that after 20 or more years, major league teams appear to be nothing more than 
 glorified AAA teams since (for some reason) the players don't really advance that far. Also, if 
 you are looking to advance quickly through a season or two, get ready to do alot of clicking since 
 there isn't an auto feature that lets you quickly scroll through a season.
  
  Nevertheless, one shouldn't let the negative aspects of my assessment skew their view. I recommend 
 that a person download the demo of the game and give it a shot. I'm sure that most baseball fans 
 will be pleased. Just remember that the Dynasty mode isn't all that great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SnuffDaddyNZ
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 28, 2004 1:47 am PT
Review:  A couple of hours ago I was playing High Heat Baseball 2001. Now even back in 2001 it never had 
 great graphics, but what it did have was great gameplay. A few hours later I played MVP 2004 for 
 the first time and the presentation as far as I am concerned, well it's better than Madden 2004. 
 Player faces look like their photos, the lighting on the stadiums and grass is fantastic. It's 
 not photo-realistic, it's more like a really REALLY good drawing. Soundwise, the commentary is 
 what I would call seamless, but it doesn't resemble the real thing. Even so, it's about as good 
 as sports game commentary gets. What really blew me away is the crowd noise, it's easily the best 
 I have ever heard in a game. When you hit a home run the roar is literally deafening, but of course 
 you will need to have your sound up loud to appreciate that statement.
  There is even great transitional music. The only thing I found wrong with the presentation is the 
 crowd looks slack compared to the players, and even though it is polygonal, it's low poly count 
 means that closeups should have been avoided. The other thing I noticed was that the ball moved 
 jerkily when flying through the air, which I put down to my monitors refresh rate conflicting with 
 the games.
  
  Like I said, High Heat 2001 was a great playing game. If I had to pick what was wrong with EA's 
 games, its you never really feel like you have hit the ball which is something that the High Heat 
 series of games nailed. In MVP your player can swing at the ball massively, and it barely makes 
 it to the edge of the diamond. Maybe sound is the culprit because you hear the same noise reguardless 
 of where the ball has gone, but it could also be because the onscreen players swing looks the same 
 whether you get an infield, outfield or home run hit. I can't quite say exactly what it is, but 
 both games feel different. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RexxKarz
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 16, 2004 2:59 pm PT
Review:  As a newbie to this game I am finding it tough to pick up the gameplay and controller specifics. 
 Maybe it's cuz I'm 44??? :-) A tutorial would be nice to grow into the game kinda like the Tiger 
 Woods game offers...
  
  Graphics are eye candy... all I would change here are the strange looking seats the crowd sits 
 in. Really wierd looking.
  
  As to sound, after playing only a few games (less than ten) I am sick of the play by play and commentary. 
 If I have to hear the color guy say "pardner" one more time he's going down! And sometimes the 
 announcer sounds like a cheesy radio guy with his voice. Their volume is getting turned off!
  
  Only time will tell if this game lasts in my book. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LhasaCM
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 15, 2004 9:07 pm PT
Review:  While not a perfect game (what is?) it does seem to represent a very solid improvement over last 
 year's effort. 
  
  GAMEPLAY: The pitching and batting interfaces are relatively unchanged, which I think is a good 
 thing. Improvements made are the use of the right analog stick to control your baserunners' leads, 
 and a new "pop-up" menu to call up manager options. Baserunning uses the right analog stick so 
 you can control your type of slide (a feet first pop-up slide, head first, try for the right or 
 left side of the base, or take out the catcher at home plate) . 
  
  Fielding also makes good use of the right analog stick by using that to control how a player dives/leaps 
 for the ball. What I like most of all is how there's a real motion involved in throwing the ball. 
 You can't just tap a button and have the ball suddenly fly to where you want it to go - the fielder 
 has to grab the ball from his glove and make a throwing motion. And, as opposed to last year, the 
 ball doesn't always reach the infielders in a split second so you actually get close plays at 1st 
 base! 
  
  GRAPHICS: This game is pretty. No other way about it. The crowd is a little flat and there aren't 
 base coaches, but beyond that - it looks really nice. Player animations are smooth but not too 
 smooth. Also, the fielder's vacuum seems to be less apparent this year (or maybe they just clean 
 it up on replays...) 
  
  FRANCHISE MODE: Obviously, I haven't had a chance to look at this in depth at all. EA took a basically 
 working model from last year and added improvements to it. When running a franchise, you really 
 have three teams to watch over: the major league team, and the AAA and AA affiliates. You can play 
 each game, quickly simulate them, just manage, or while simulating, jump in at any point to intervene, 
 and jump back out once your work is done. (Or, if the game turns into a rout, you can stop playing 
 and let it sim.) 
  
  Roster management is also more robust with the addition of a trading block, so you can shop around 
 players. However (at least according to the EA press...) by putting a player on the trading block, 
 you may just piss them off and ruin team chemistry. 
  
  The "CPU Optimze Rosters" function is a nice idea, but tends to completely screw things up. I think 
 the CPU attempts to just put the best 25 players in the majors, the next best 25 in AAA, and the 
 rest in AA, making sure that there's at least one of everything at each level. However, it doesn't 
 pay much consideration to something like a depth chart (after "optimizing" my roster, I ended up 
 carrying 13 pitchers and 3 backup outfielders, with a 4th backup outfielder as a DH. Oops.) 
  
  It appears that the stat tracking is roughly the same as last year's in both depth and breadth. 
 
  
  HOME RUN SHOWDOWN: Pretty much the same as last year. 
  
  PITCHER SHOWDOWN: A new feature where pitchers compete to mow through a lineup getting strikeouts. 
 Like the HR Showdown, the action is done via split screen. 
  
  SCENARIO EDITOR: Another new feature - haven't used it yet so no thoughts 
  
  UNLOCKABLE FEATURES: 
 Like NBA Live 2004, you have to earn the right to play with the greats, in the retro jerseys, or 
 to play in the classic stadiums. You earn "MVP points" for reaching certain goals in your franchise, 
 HR or Pitcher Showdown (i. e. beating Sammy Sosa in a showdown, etc.) , or in playing a game (you 
 don't get credit if you sim part of the game) . The higher the skill level, the more points you 
 earn. 
  
  One word of caution: any progress is not automatically saved; you need to manually save your profile 
 after earning points/spending points to ensure that you don't lose out of that when you quit the 
 game. Why EA couldn't just automatically save the profile after each game/showdown is beyond me. 
 
  
  ONGOING PROBLEMS: Unfortunately, as with last year, there are still "scoring" issues. In 7 games, 
 I've hit three rockets towards the 3rd baseman that just flew by his head. There's no way most 
 would have reacted fast enough to get a glove on it and stop the ball, so in real life they'd be 
 clean hits. However, the game likes to charge the 3rd baseman with an error - maybe because the 
 ball enters his little bubble? The same thing happens with line drives hit elsewhere in the field 
 - if the infielder gets close, he sometimes gets charged with an error.
  
  Other scoring issues that persist from last year are discrepancies in awarding extra base hits. 
 Scenario: runner on 2nd, single hit to right field. The right fielder comes up throwing to try 
 to nab the runner at home. With a speedy guy getting the hit, he takes second on the throw. Should 
 be ruled a single, but I've been getting credit for a double. Another scenario: ball hit to the 
 gap, guy legs it around the bases and gets to 3rd, gets credit for only a double. Or - guy hits 
 it to the gap, ball rattles around, and it's an inside the park home run. At least that's what 
 I'd think and what the announcer says. In actuality, it's only a single. Or maybe a triple if the 
 game feels generous.
  
  OVERALL: Fortunately, it seems that EA didn't break anything in last year's game, which is an accomplishment 
 itself. As with all of the major EA sports titles, a controller with dual analog sticks is a must 
 to take full advantage of the control options available. The added features are quite nice, and 
 the gameplay improvements are noticable and good to see. Right now I only have two major gripes: 
 not automatically saving the profile and any earned MVP points, and no ability to save a game in 
 progress. Despite that, I would definitely recommend it and am looking forward to killing a great 
 deal more time playing baseball. One definite downside to the game is the lack of controller support 
 out of the box. Fortunately, some users have managed to find a good work-around so that it isn't 
 a critical flaw - just a big pain. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GreyHairedGamer
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 14, 2004 5:09 pm PT
Review:  This game is by far the best baseball game out for the PC. Whether you are a baseball fan or not 
 you will quickly find yourself immersed in the game and the feeling that you are at the ballpark.
 
  
  The environmental sounds are second to none. You can hear the PA announcer talking to the crowd 
 and it isnt just the usual blah, blah, blah but rather it matches what is happening on the field. 
 If Sammy Sosa is up to bat youll most likely hear, Next up Sammy Sosa. You can hear fans yelling 
 at the players using the players names. All of your standard ballpark sounds are there Get your 
 popcorn, etc. 
  
  The graphics are much improved over last year. I would laugh at watching the letters of a players 
 name float about an eighth of an inch of their jersey, that doesnt happen anymore! The ballparks 
 look great and the scoreboards are functional. The crowd is improved but still needs some work. 
 Of course Im not sure anyone would want to model out 20,000 people just to add to the essence 
 of the game and kill performance.
  
  The new batting, fielding and pitching systems are awesome and helps add to the players feel of 
 being in control of the players and game.
  
  As for game play, last years edition was very easy to learn and you could jump in the game without 
 much effort. This years edition requires you to learn the new and vastly improved batting, fielding 
 and pitching systems. These are awesome and help add to the players feel of being in control of 
 the players and game. They are definitely worth the effort of learning.
  
  I agree with xelalex24, there is no such thing as a perfect game and their never will be but EA 
 Sports has done an excellent job over the past two years of taking baseball on the PC to an new 
 level with MVP Baseball.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mbush27
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 14, 2004 1:47 pm PT
Review:  Im tired of people looking for the perfect game, there is no such thing in this world that is 
 100% perfect, but there is greatness, and this game is it! The gameplay is great, especially with 
 the analog buttons allowing you to choose all the way from how you hit a ball to how you slide 
 into a base. The dynasty mode is excellent, it spends over 120 years and you can take your team, 
 and its farm teams to a championship victory. I have played over 20 hours already and I have mastered 
 the game, but it is still challenging, and for that reason I see myself playing it for a long time 
 because I know that I will not get bored.
  
  The sound is excellent in this game. You hear the chants echoing though the ballpark and fans getting 
 into the game. The graphics could be better, but no real complaint. 
  
  There is so much in the game that it really feels like a real ball game, like charging the mount, 
 dislodging the ball from the catcher as you head into home, warm up your bullpen, and visiting 
 the mount to hopefully give a little pep to your pitcher.
  
  This is a must buy for any baseball fan.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LucianoJ
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 13, 2004 8:25 pm PT
Review:  MVP Baseball is easily the best ever PC baseball game. The graphics far exceed High Heat, the gameplay 
 is miles ahead of Triple Play. EA is always capable of offering eye candy. The many real faces 
 of the major leaguers, improved modelling of their physiques and the renderings of the parks are 
 all excellent. The only minor complaints I have relate to the way players' necks look, or their 
 contortions at the plate in the bent-over batting stance. The turf looks a little like tile. If 
 there were signs of wear like in FIFA that would be an added plus. There are many player-specific 
 stances and pitcher-specific deliveries which add to the realism. Giving the game more of a broadcast 
 look is when you see the pitchers warm up in the bullpen, the sight of the manager walking to the 
 mound and signaling to the 'pen and the view of players in the dugout. The crowds are better this 
 year, but are still flat and generic looking. It looks like they modelled the crowd after NHL 2004. 
 
  Gameplay-wise the pitching interface is great. Be careful when trying to turn the double play, 
 a number of times my second baseman was taken out on the pivot. The hitting is tougher than last 
 year. EA needs a batting practice mode here. 
  The addition of AA and AAA is nice and the dynasty mode will make it more of a long term challenge. 
 Turning points earned into unlocked old-timers, vintage jerseys and legendary stadiums adds to 
 the staying power of the game. I can see people playing this one for months. This game finally 
 puts baseball on the same level as Madden 2004, NBA Live 2004, NHL 2004 and FIFA 2004. It's worth 
 your money and time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slimmc
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 13, 2004 12:14 am PT
Review:  This is certainly a step up from last year's debut. The graphics are excellent and the gameplay 
 is vastly improved. MVP 2004 is a baseball game to get lost in. I'm disappointed with the maze 
 of menus one must navigate through on Dynasty mode. Why can't there be a single screen with text 
 about the same size as this? The whole page would be devoted to the rosters of the MLB, AAA, and 
 AA teams. One would be able to see a short stat on each player instead of having to click on them 
 or follow the meandering pathway from menu to menu to find the team's statistics. From here, one 
 could double click on a name for more information or to extend a contract, etc. One could also 
 click and drag names to change batting order, pitching assignment, and major league or minor league 
 call-ups. Doesn't this seem incredibly easier? I also dislike that the major league club doesn't 
 expand to 40 players in September and for Spring Training. With some minor fine tuning to the gameplay 
 and a massive overhaul to the menu setup, MVP Baseball is on track to be the greatest PC baseball 
 franchise ever conceived. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
