-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: MVP Baseball 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sports/mvpbaseball2005/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Realistic action on the field, with smarter pitchers and more-patient batters.
 Owner mode adds a business angle to dynasty play.
 Addictive minigames let you hone hitting and pitching skills.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Action is a little too fast on the default settings, making manual fielding overly difficult.
 Owner mode has some financial flaws.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar  1, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.7
Critic Score: 8.5, 13 Review (s)
User Score: 8.9, 612 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Sports
Genre: Baseball Sim
Date:     Feb 22, 2005
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
EA Sports has finally hit one out of the park with MVP Baseball 2005. "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN" 
        MVP Baseball 2005 Review for PC - GameSpot       
                             function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) { var imgElem 
 =              The Good            Realistic action on the field, with smarter pitchers and more-patient 
 batters  &nbsp;      Owner mode adds a business angle to dynasty play  &nbsp;      Addictive minigames 
 let you hone hitting and pitching skills.                The Bad            Action is a little 
 too fast on the default settings, making manual fielding overly difficult  &nbsp;      Owner mode 
 has some financial flaws.                      After The Fact:  Reviews Revisited        What's 
 this?               Update:  Servers Offline    Posted: Nov 5, 2008 4:31 pm PT      Toward the 
 end of 2006, the online service for this game was shut down by EA. &nbsp;               

  After the glory days of 3DO's High Heat Major League Baseball franchise at the beginning of the 
 decade, things got rough for PC baseball gamers. Most development shifted to consoles, and 3DO's 
 bankruptcy killed one of the best series in sports gaming last spring. But the drought is finally 
 over. Following years of abuse from hardcore hardball fanatics over its unrealistic Triple Play 
 series, EA Sports has finally hit one out of the park with MVP Baseball 2005. Impressive strides 
 have been made over last year's sophomore edition of the series through the incorporation of enhanced 
 realism, gorgeous graphics, habit-forming minigames, and a new career mode of play.  

          Owner mode lets you build New Yankee Stadium, but the tiny facility looks more like a triple 
 A park than a successor to 'the House That Ruth Built.'     

  Play on the field sparkles. The pitcher-batter confrontation at the heart of baseball is as authentic 
 as that depicted in High Heat 2001, the high-water mark of that series. Computer pitchers work 
 with real intelligence that governs ball selection and location. They move the ball around, change 
 speeds, keep the ball away when ahead in the count, and throw junk. MLB aces, like Eric Gagne and 
 Kevin Brown, paint corners and put serious snap on breaking pitches. Pedro Martinez's slider, for 
 instance, cuts across the plate like a runaway train. Taking the mound yourself is a tough assignment, 
 too, because of a tightened-up pitching meter with a smaller sweet spot.  

  Computer hitters approach their duties with patience and have no trouble waiting for you to serve 
 something up. At the same time, they're not invincible. Vary your pitch type, location, and speed 
 and you can collect Ks with the right hurler on the mound. Stepping into the box against computer 
 pitching isn't easy on the MVP and difficulty settings, although the new hitter's eye feature colors 
 some balls at the moment of release (white for fastball, red for breaking ball, and so on) to let 
 you know what's coming. All in all, everything holds together extremely well. And if you do see 
 plays that you don't like, you can tweak sliders that control such factors as throwing speed, injury 
 frequency, and pitcher fatigue.  

  That said, there are some quirks. More foul balls and walks add texture to games, although there 
 still isn't enough of either. Play remains a touch on the fast side, making it hard to manually 
 field sharply hit grounders and hot liners in the outfield. Couple this with the tiny size of the 
 ball in the default camera, and singles can turn into roll-to-the-wall triples. Fielding assistance 
 helps, though it seems like a cheat. Fielding is also the cause of an apparent bug that causes 
 balls clearly caught in the outfield to be occasionally scored as singles. Fortunately, we only 
 encountered this problem a few times in the two dozen or so games we played, but an issue like 
 this needs to be addressed in a patch.  

  Of course, you need a little glitz to keep people playing. MVP Baseball 2005 delivers in that department 
 with loads of features. Gamers with short attention spans can get instant gratification from exhibition 
 play, manager mode, online multiplayer (which, incidentally, seems lag-free and now features 32-player 
 tournaments, in addition to exhibition games) , the home run showdown, and a pair of minigames. 
 In fact, it's hard to stop playing the fiendishly addictive minigames, which hook you with simple 
 gameplay and the allure of honing your skills for real games. The pitching challenge is an ingenious 
 baseball version of Tetris where you score points by throwing the ball into colored blocks in the 
 strike zone. Hitting is no slouch, either. There you take batting practice, where you must hit 
 called shots, ramps, and even moving lawn mowers in the outfield, as well as wrecked cars and buses 
 outside the fences.  

          Earn that triple with a hard slide past A-Rod.     

  And as usual with EA Sports games these days, almost every accomplishment earns points to unlock 
 bonus content. Whether you pitch a perfect game, reach sixth level in the hitting minigame, or 
 smoke Frank Thomas in the home run challenge, you accumulate points toward the purchase of classic 
 players (from Ruth to Ryan) , classic Cooperstown stadiums (like Griffith Park and the Polo Grounds... where 
 games are seen through a sepia filter that makes it seem like you're watching 80-year-old newsreels) , 
 and classic old-time uniforms (such as the woolen togs worn by the 1915 Red Sox and the Day-Glo 
 monstrosities that adorned the 1986 Astros) .     "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"  
       MVP Baseball 2005 Review for PC - Page 2 - GameSpot                                   function 
 do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) { var imgElem =  
 if (! imgElem) { return true; } if (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri 
 =  var newUri = cTrkPrefix + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return 
 true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 (parentId, iTrkId, iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return 
 false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { var 
 parentElem =  if (! parentElem) { return false; } var imgElem 
 = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; imgElem. src 
 = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; imgElem. height = '1';  
 } return true; }   ON   The Insider :  Will Ferrell to Appear on Man vs Wild    //             
   GAMES:     GameSpot     GameFAQs     MUSIC:     Last. fm     MP3. com     MOVIES:     Metacritic 
     Movietome     TV:     TV. com                    GameSpot. com                Search         
                       BioShock 2 Exclusive First Look:  We head back to Rapture with...        
        Spore Galactic Adventures Q&amp; A:  Lead Producer Kip...               Starcraft II: Wings 
 of Liberty Battle Report:  Its Zerg...               Mafia II Impressions:  The sequel to 
 the cult-classic 2002...                    home        PC      Xbox 360      Wii      PS3     
  PS2      PSP      DS        community      forums      videos      cheats      features      downloads 
      sports      tech      news            Reviews     Previews     Cheats     Answers     New 
 Releases     Top Games     All PC Games     Tech Center          Theme:   Light    Dark        
     Sign In    Create your account    Help    Forgot Password?                                 
       Add Game       Tag       Print       Email       Facebook       Digg                     
          MVP Baseball 2005 Review          

 EA Sports has finally hit one out of the park with MVP Baseball 2005.               The Good    
         Realistic action on the field, with smarter pitchers and more-patient batters  &nbsp;  
     Owner mode adds a business angle to dynasty play  &nbsp;      Addictive minigames let you hone 
 hitting and pitching skills.                The Bad            Action is a little too fast on the 
 default settings, making manual fielding overly difficult  &nbsp;      Owner mode has some financial 
 flaws.                      After The Fact:  Reviews Revisited        What's this?             
   Update:  Servers Offline    Posted: Nov 5, 2008 4:31 pm PT      Toward the end of 2006, the online 
 service for this game was shut down by EA. &nbsp;               

  If you're not into exhibitions and gimmicks, MVP Baseball 2005 includes a pair of career options. 
 Dynasty mode adds the class A minor league circuit but is otherwise a holdover from last year, 
 complete with similar features and the 120-year career limitation. The new owner mode is similar 
 in many ways, although it's a dynasty mode that pumps up career play with reams of management tasks. 
 Not only are you running a Major League franchise on the field, but also you're looking after farm 
 clubs in all three minor leagues, setting ticket prices, building a ballpark for your inaugural 
 season, purchasing concession stands and souvenir shops to sell overpriced soft drinks and T-shirts 
 to the masses, and, of course, keeping the books in the black.  

          Broadcast-style camera positioning provides great angles on hits, including hard slappers 
 down the third-base line.     

  That's easier said than done. While overseeing the operations of your favorite franchise is addictive, 
 owner mode has some problems. The principal issue is being forced to create a new stadium at the 
 beginning of each new game, as customization is mostly limited to cosmetics. Other than choosing 
 padding, brick, or ivy for the walls, in addition to picking seat color and selecting fence style 
 and distance from a few choices, there aren't many options. Anything that would give homebrewed 
 stadiums real personality, such as domes, retractable roofs, or unique attractions (like the train 
 in Houston's Minute Maid Park) , has been ignored. Also, for a game that is an ode to the Boston 
 Red Sox winning the 2004 World Series -- it features cover boy Manny Ramirez, an opening video about 
 the history-making Fall Classic of 2004, and a title song dedicated to the Beantowners -- it's bizarre 
 that the only option for the placement of a Green Monster-styled outfield wall is in right field. 

  Money is another stadium problem. Clubs start with a paltry few million dollars, and those funds 
 don't go far when outfitting a stadium. You can build a restaurant and maybe a couple of ice cream 
 and pizza stands in year one, but that's it. Additions to improve the bottom line, like extra tiers 
 of seating for more customers and upgraded restaurants, are far beyond your meager opening-day 
 budget. This means you're stuck with both a 20,000-seat facility that bleeds cash for at least 
 five years and a much-needed salary dump in your first season to remain solvent. It's impossible 
 to make ends meet in the first years of running a rich club, too. Go into the 2005 season with 
 the $200 million payroll of the New York Yankees and your first objective is dumping megabuck stars 
 like Jason Giambi, Kevin Brown, and (gulp!) even Derek Jeter. So while you can call the Bronx Bombers' 
 freshly built digs New Yankee Stadium, the actual park would be a better fit for the Toledo Mud 
 Hens.  

  Play-by-play and color commentary is similarly minor-league. Duane Kuiper and Mike Krukow are awful. 
 Not only do the broadcasters regurgitate lines from MVP Baseball 2004, but also their comments 
 are entirely random musings based on the moment. So whenever Randy Johnson has a couple of tough 
 innings, you'll hear something like, "This pitcher isn't going to strike out many batters." Uh-huh. 
 The folks in Cooperstown are likely to disagree. Also, these lines don't mention specific players. 
 Every observation is about "this hitter," "this righty," or even "this dude." The lone saving grace 
 here is that Kuiper and Krukow confine their dimwitticisms to staccato sentences and don't ramble 
 on between pitches.  

  High-quality visuals and in-game sound effects minimize the negative impact of the play-by-play. 
 Both elements combine to give you the impression that you're in a big-league ballpark. Player animations 
 are dead-on, with authentic batting stances and pitching motions of many Major League stars. Uniforms 
 are attractive and brightly colored, although they also get pretty filthy after a slide or two. 
 Vendors yell out the stadium treats they offer, like hot dogs and Philly cheesesteak sandwiches. 
 Broadcast-style presentation now includes picture-in-picture displays from the top or side, showing 
 fouls and whether you were in front of or behind the last pitch. In one area, however, this attention 
 to detail goes too far. Player faces are so closely drawn that some have cheeks that resemble the 
 surface of the moon. You can only see this sort of detail in the close-ups, such as when players 
 step into the batter's box, but too many players look like they've got either serious acne or the 
 measles (and poor Matt Stairs appears positively syphilitic) .  

          A new minigame mode includes a pitching challenge that plays like a hardball version of 
 Tetris.     

  With MVP Baseball 2005, EA Sports puts to rest the ghost of Triple Play once and for all. You won't 
 quite get that  satisfaction earned once upon a time in High 
 Heat, but you will get a sense of much-needed Major League authenticity that PC baseball fans have 
 been missing over the past few years.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (14 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: -Sonnenschein-
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 19, 2009 9:37 am PT
Review:  Game Modes:
  
  Besides the usual suspects like Exhibition it offers a great variety: small mini games that won't 
 keep you playing for long but the best modes: Franchise and Owner Mode. I prefer the owner mode 
 because you can build your own stadium and really have to budget well. Very well-rounded.
  
  Graphics:
  
  Okay for 2004/2005, I guess: for today's standards still acceptable but definitely 
 nothing special.
  
  Controls:
  
  Easy, precise with a few glitches in fielding
  
  Sound:
  
  Commentators were still fun after 50 hours but start to be annoying after approx. 
 150 hours ;) They aren't really diverse, but still fun.
  
  Conclusion:
  +++
  - except all the home runs it actually feels like baseball
  --  superb animation
  - create 
 a stadium was something new, unfortunately not with many options, but it was a good try
  - only few glitches
  - great accuracy
  - tons of long-time fun
  - good right-analog-stick 
 controls!
  - you can choose the jerseys and stadium before every game
  - mods all over the Internet keep the game up-to-date
  
  ---
  - mini games don't provide 
 much fun
  - ambiguous player development
  - player complaints during franchise and owner mode don't always make sense
  - after many hours 
 the commentary does get extremely annoying
  - Difficulty on higher levels is ridiculous! I have never won without adjusting sliders!
  
 
  Compared to many newer baseball games it remains a GRAND SLAM. Definitely not perfect in today's 
 sense, but still an addictive masterpiece with a lot of fun and depth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slavenL8
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 11, 2007 4:04 pm PT
Review:  The game is good and is just right the gameplay is good and is just hard enough. The main new feature 
 in the 2005 game is the Hitter's Eye system, which is a nice improvement and is a very good system. 
 The game boasts full Major League Baseball, Minor League Baseball, and Major League Baseball Players 
 Association licenses (2005) . EA Sports have lost their MLB lisence and is not producing any more 
 games (baseball) .
  
  It was also widely regarded to have the best graphics and gameplay of any baseball video game on 
 the market as of 2005. The game is great and is the best baseball game ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JSuarez
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 21, 2008 9:03 am PT
Review:  First the basics: EA Sport's MVP Baseball 2005 allows you to play as a manager, owner, and god 
 over any major league, AAA, AA, and/or A league baseball team (well, the top A league teams anyway) , 
 holding nearly all of the real players from all the major league teams, plus anyone who has ever 
 played in the majors is also represented. You control your batters and pitchers and try to guide 
 them to a World Series victory...... When I took this out of the box to play it for the first time, 
 the first impressions were very strong.... the graphics looked good, the game seemed to play well.... however, 
 weird plays started happening, and also while there are a lot of stats, many are missing, like 
 averages with runners in scoring position (which to me is very important to know) . The interface 
 is also non-intuitive, having to figure out when to use the keyboard and when to use the controller 
 took a little time to get used to... and the baserunning controls, while effective when finally 
 learned, caused many an out by mistake..... getting further into the game, SIMPLY PUT, AS A USER 
 PITCHER, I DIDN'T THROW ENOUGH WALKS, and I had to use mods and mod a little bit on my own, to 
 get a semblance of true simulation... not throwing enough walks actually kind of ruined the game 
 because everything else was skewed.... then finally, it just seemed like things were actually too 
 scripted.... using the left analog to try to control where the ball went (with the hitter) more 
 often than not does not work, and occasionally I would hit home runs that I could think of no way 
 how I could have based on where the pitch was and where my left analog stick was pointing (down) , 
 AND/OR I would be pitching to a batter's "cold" zone and he would then pop it out of the park.... I 
 mean these things do happen every now and then in real life, but it feels like the CPU is just 
 too "clutch" in deciding a games outcome... not to mention the weird things like odd errors / non-errors 
 that occurred, strange throwing, fielding decisions (which do happen in real life, but not the 
 way they happened in MVP 05) , etc........ in conclusion, this was fun while it lasted, but in the 
 end MVP 05 still leaves me wanting for better gameplay, a better job by the developers of how baseball 
 works, and a better tested product. One final note, I STRONGLY RECOMMEND checking out mvpmods. com 
 as there are a lot of folks doing great things by modding this game and making it more playable. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Metamorbis
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 8, 2006 9:08 am PT
Review:  The MVP Baseball series has always delivered a solid baseball experience and this game is no exception. 
 With new game types such as Owner Mode and Mini-games, the value of the game skyrockets. Along 
 with strong graphics and solid game play, this game can keep you occupied for a VERY long time.
 
  
  The gameplay is solid, with very realistic player animations and excellent fielding and batting 
 controls. The pitching mechanics are excellent and the base running is good, IF you have a special 
 EA Sports controller for your PC. If you don't have this controller, you cannot lead or slide while 
 baserunning and you cannot make diving plays in the field. This takes basically the entire element 
 of base stealing or triples out of the game. This annoying and practically necessary attachment 
 is only one of two grievances I have with this game.
  
  The other is that when you put the settings on All-star or sometimes on Pro, the gameplay gets 
 unrealistically fast, making manual fielding nearly impossible. This also makes pitching unrealistic 
 and the game nearly unplayable.
  
  Despite these two problems, everything else about the game is pretty much perfect. The graphics 
 are amazing, as well as the sound, and gameplay (with the EA controller) . The 120 season dynasty 
 mode is a very engrossing experience and will definitely burn up most of your time playing this 
 game. Baseball fans as well as both casual and hardcore gamers should check this game out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jim1029
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 21, 2006 2:31 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best baseball games! It is so much fun, and the graphics are really good. It's 
 challenging but fun. It's like eating potato chips: once you start, you can't stop! Home runs are 
 somewhat hard to hit, but it still doesn't make any difference. You can create your own player 
 and put him on a team.
  The only problem I have with it is that you can't really control how the batters swing. I think 
 that if you could control the swing, it would be more fun, but harder. Also, it doesn't really 
 make a difference if the pitcher throws a curveball or a fastball or a knuckleball. You can still 
 get a hit. But that's because you can't control the swing. 
  But still a very good game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrBlake
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 27, 2006 8:36 am PT
Review:  note: the score deserves better than I've given it, its only that way because of the really really 
 bad sound score. so think of the score as closer to 9.5
  
  So I just thought, eh what the heck... I'll pick up this baseball game and give it a whack. No pun 
 intended. What I came to find was something that would consume MY LIFE. Or at least for a few hours 
 every day. 
  
  Gameplay-wise, it is quite polished. I can't compare it to other baseball games cause its my first. 
 However, this game is VERY VERY easy on the early levels of difficulty, then is more difficult 
 but still can be very easy even on the high levels. On Pro I could very easily have a team where, 
 they could have a perfect season, the whole team batting over .400, the team ERA below 1.00, and 
 have over 500 home runs. Even on All-Star I could gander a season with above 120 wins easy, but 
 with less run production. There are many loopholes in the AI batthing that can be exposed, like 
 sliders breaking inside, or curves down low. I guess, cause the control scheme is really easy it 
 makes it easy to drop those pitches in like it. Although, I would have liked to see something that 
 involves player tendencies. Like a player that would strike out more often, like he would chase 
 fastballs up high a lot, or curves down like. I guess Its like real, only a little too exaggerated 
 feeling, ergo easy to strike out the AI a lot (which I love though :-D)
  
  Graphics are pretty decent. Crowds nothing to look at, stadiums rendered purdy good, and player 
 models nice. I wish they had more variety in customizing the players.
  
  The sound is the worst part. Luckily there are mods that allow you to pick your own music, but 
 you are still left with two annoying Giants announcers (I say that with hatred as a Diehard Dodgers 
 fan) . They are redundant and BORING.
  
  Value. Well See above in first paragraph. Especially w/ the addition of the MVP 2006 LOL mod I 
 have many more hours now consumed. I love real players as apposed to made up players.
  
  Overall definitely a good game. I got it for like...5-10 bucks used at EB Games so I got a lot 
 of bang for my buck. And I'm very pleased with it. Check out the 2006 MVP Mod at mvpmods. com. Makes 
 life a whole lot easier for those who hoped for MVP 2006. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: byronwild
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 18, 2005 10:10 am PT
Review:  MVP Baseball 2005 is a good game. I've had it for just over two weeks and although I've been playing 
 it diligently, I am far from mastering it. And I'm only playing on the All-star level (Rookie, 
 Pro, All-star, MVP) . In my first few games I struck out about 237 times. I complained, claiming 
 the hitting in the game was too difficult. But now as I actually put the ball in play, all that 
 struggling early makes each single feel so good. I got quite addicted trying to win games I inevitably 
 lost 4-1. Such an annoying score, because I couldn't score any runs and gave up two 2-run homers 
 on mistake pitches.
  
  I've been playing the dynasty mode and I'm in 6th year or something. It's a well-designed feature, 
 but there are a few things that bug me about it. 
  1) it's very difficult to trade. The computer often puts their best prospect on the trading block 
 and will only accept your best prospect in return. I wish the AI would tell me which players on 
 my team it was interested in. And the computers rarely put pitchers on the trading block. 
  
  2) In Spring Training you can play the mini games to improve your players. The Batting Game 
 is WAY too difficult. I rarely even play it because I once got to Round 7 thinking I'd get a +5 
 bonus or something and came out with +1. Definitely not worth it. 
  
  3) there's quite a bit of micro-managing your rosters if you want to keep players happy. If you 
 sign a guy to a MLB Relief contract and he sucks so you send him down to AAA, he'll be unhappy 
 and bring down the Team Chemistry, which helps you win simmed games. At some point the players 
 should realize that if they can't play in the Majors, then they'll be sent down and they shouldn't 
 complain.
  
  4) I'm playing as the Mariners and that is a wealthy team. Many years I'll go through the season 
 25 million over the salary cap with no way to spend it. I can't keep signing the best free agents, 
 because my team's already rockin'. So all that extra money is kinda useless.
  
  I haven't played the owner mode too much yet, I want to get good at playing first, and owner mode 
 focuses more on the financial side. It's basically the Dynasty mode (for 30 years instead of 120) 
 with money involved.
  
  Oh, and you HAVE to play with a dual analog controller. I bought mine without looking too closely, 
 and it only has one button up on the "shoulder" of the controller. You want to get a controller 
 that has two buttons up there, the game's designed that way. So, get the game, have some fun, get 
 attached to your players you raised from Single A. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: miklifton
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 19, 2005 6:38 pm PT
Review:  MVP Baseball 2005, like 2004, was the best baseball game of the year in my opinion. It didnt really 
 improve from the 2004 version. The graphics were pleasing and the sound was the same as 2004 but 
 still good. It still had problems with calling some plays errors when they clearly were not. That, 
 to me, was the only bad thing about the game. The new Owner Mode was a great add. The mini games 
 werent that great but still fun. The EA Soundtrack to this game was perfect. Overall, this game 
 is the one for baseball fans. And Manny deserved the cover! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lunytic
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 16, 2005 4:43 am PT
Review:  Wow, I was given 120 characters to write a snazzy buzz line and I used all 120 (with the period) . 
 But onto MVP Baseball 2005.
  
  Basically MVP 2005 is a maddening collection of great ideas and terrible ideas. Almost every feature 
 has a good point and a bad point to it. As a quick summary, I rated this game a 7.0. And I really 
 enjoy it; I just can't play it for long periods of time without getting completely frustrated at 
 his many, many problems. Now, onto the features:
  
  *Quick caveat* If you are a hardcore gamer, some of this won't apply to you because you are better 
 at gaming than I am... 
  
  In no particular order...
  
  1) Playing out of the box 
  
  The Good: Some things you can become proficient in quickly (trading, simming, pitching) .
 
  The Bad: Some things you cant (Hitting. Hitting. Hitting.) I'll get into hitting more later, 
 but this is a good warm-up.
  
  2) Interface (remember this is for the PC)
  
  The Good: There isn't one. This is just a very crappy interface for a PC. Basically the staff at 
 EA was lazy and just used the console interface (I'm assuming) . Which means it is long on flash 
 and very, very, very low on substance. The Staff at EA needed to improve and interface like the 
 one High Heat 2003 or MS Baseball 2001 (not the game, just the interface) used. Both were very 
 basic, almost amateurish, but relayed a large amount of relevant data very quickly and easily. 
 Overall - Considering MS Baseball in 2001 had a better format in 4 years ago, the EA staff should 
 be taken into the street and egged.
  
  The Bad: Oh, where to start:
  A) You can only see 2 or 3 attributes at one time. It doesn't matter if you're at the trade screen, 
 the roster screen, or any screen. Bad design.
  B) The interface feels and acts like a joystick-limited interface. The mouse is far underutilized.
 
  C) There's more, but those two are very broad and give you an idea of the problems.
  
  3) Owner-mode
  
  The Good: 
  A) Many different options 
  B) Consequences for some actions 
 (such as payroll reduction causes many sponsors to stop advertising with you until you start winning) . 
 
  C) You can build and upgrade your stadium. 
  D) You have more options when signing players to contracts. 
  E) You can hire your staff (including 
 Coach, hitting instructor and pitching coach) for all levels, including scouts. Great improvement. 
 
  
  The Bad: 
  A) Many different half-arsed options. 
  B) Sponsorship cuts are directly linked to payroll, not popularity, and there is no player popularity 
 bit. 
  C) Your stadium upgrades are criminally limited. You can't design a unique stadium, you're stuck 
 with 4 or 5 options that have as much character as a rock (actually thats an insult to rocks everywhere) . 
 
  D) The impacts of your different player signing are not very well explained and in-game often are 
 just plain stupid. I was sitting a player when his energy dropped to 80 and he got mad, I think 
 for sitting. Then I didn't sit him and he got mad when his energy dropped to 65, I think for overplaying 
 him. BUT I WAS NEVER TOLD WHICH. 
  E) You can hire your staff but... all scout/coach skills are if they were Big Show level. I don't 
 care if this guy isn't a MLB-ready coach yet, tell me how good of a AA coach he is. The coaches' 
 abilities are really low for A ball, which is not accurate, they just aren't MLB level coaches. 
 Again, partly done.
  
  I could go on, but you get the idea, for every great idea (and there are many) there is mortal 
 flaw. MVP 2005 is essentially the video game version of a Greek Comedy... For every great hero 
 there was serious flaw that prevented them from being enduring heroes. (Think Achilles heel) .
 
  
  3.5) Owner's Money
  Note here more than anything. Its hard to earn money. Most players won't be in the black until 
 they win a few playoff games. While I enjoy this, I realize the frustration many people have at 
 wanting to take over a current MLB team. Not a MLB team that plays in a college stadium (Your beginning 
 stadium has a 20,000 seat capacity and you will rarely get more than 12,000 until you win A LOT 
 of games) . If you don't understand this before playing, this could be a game killer. This should 
 have been one of two options EA offered (the other being you take over a team and its stadium and 
 expected fan attendance) .
  
  4) Trading
  
  The Good: Its there... Every game now needs trading, and the system isn't terrible (plus it is 
 hard to really, really play the system like used to do in HH 2003) .
  
  The Bad: In many ways the trading system is amateurish. You are stuck guess and checking to see 
 if other teams will trade players. HH 2003 had an option where you could see who the other team 
 wanted and if you selected a player to trade for, who they would take in return. 2 years later 
 EA can't grasp this simple concept and improve it. Also you can't trade cash...
  
  5) Player potential
  
  The Good: Its there. Some players simply just can't become HOFers stats-wise. 
 
  The Bad: All you have is a scouts generic report to try to determine this. No star potential (1-5 
 or something like that) with their stats. Not suggestion of how scouts think players would progress 
 with training (even if its not always accurate) . Another Greek tragedy.
  
  6) Hitting
  
  The Good: I like the hitter's eye. Good concept.
  The Bad: Pitch speeds are not consistent. 
 I've seen 75 mph curveballs come across the plate faster than 95 mph fastballs. 
  
  Essentially all you have to do to hit is to time your swing. Sounds simple, its not. It is just 
 maddening. You can't control their aim (a la Ken Griffey Jr. Slugfest) , so even if you time it 
 perfectly you are still at the whim of the computer. Also you cannot hit pitches that are up our 
 down out of the strike zone; however that doesn't stop the computer. Lame.
  
  Now, I'm not complaining that I can't repeat my - everyone hits over .500 - that I did in HH 2003, 
 I'm complaining that the hitting is fricken impossible. I have a team of very good hitters that 
 I can't hit with (Ichiro .285, Blaylock .250, Crawford, .285) . I have a couple over .300, but not 
 easily (especially since I've tried to reduce the difficulty significantly) . And trying to hit 
 with up-and-comers like BJ Upton or Rickie Weeks
  
  And its not like I'm hitting homeruns. About 3/5ths of the way through the season I've hit 60 
 HRs as a team, with Beltre leading the way with 19. Blaylock has 16. After that its Mauer with 
 11. I don't think anyone else has more than 6. 
  
  Overall hitting is just too fricken difficult. I'm not a hard-core gamer. I don't want to be. I 
 want a baseball game I can take out of the box, play a few games and understand it well enough 
 that I can enjoy playing a season. I can't do that with MVP's hitting.
  
  7) Difficulty Settings
  
  The Good: You have LOTS and LOTS and LOTS of options. You can micromanage 
 the difficulty of things like leading off, controlling your pitches, fielding. There must be 40 
 sliders that you can change to adjust the difficulty.
  
  The Bad: Some don't make sense. Decreasing a slider doesn't necessarily make it easier. One common 
 problem I have is starting pitchers are fatigued after 50 pitches. So I lowered the slider to increase 
 their lasting power. Nope, wrong way. Gotta move the slider up. BUT THIS ISN'T EXPLAINED ANYWHERE! 
 
  
  8) There's more I could write about but by now I'm sure you get the picture. Hardcore sports gamers 
 will love this game. Others need to be prepared many negatives to go with all the positives.
  
  Personally, I love to hate this game. I still play (usually only one game at a time to keep 
 from destroying my computer) but I keep the antacid close by. 
  
  If you buy this game, don't expect a web-gem. This is more like going to an A game. You enjoy it, 
 but you can also see major flaws. Just be prepared.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bonght3
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 14, 2005 9:24 pm PT
Review:  I have and will always be a fan of sports games. The years of Triple Play and earlier were always 
 arcadish, which is nice sometimes, but can get very repetitive. Luckily this years MVP, like last 
 years, is just about perfect. 
  
  The gameplay is fun and is can be very hard to win games, if you don't have a good team. I like 
 it like that, but if you don't, than you can lower the difficulty and make it better for you. I 
 like the pitching this years as it is harder for you to get a perfect pitch, but it is still easy 
 to get the pitch close. The batting has been improved this years with the new hitter's eye and 
 the increase of walks in the game, giving the game a more realistic feel to it. 
  
  With the game-play you can do exhibition, dynasty mode, and the new owner mode. At first I was 
 excited about the owner mode because you could set prices, build a stadium, and try to make money. 
 It sound nice but it seems very hard to make money especially if you build a new stadium, which 
 looks like minor league stadiums, and run a high budget team. I went as a team with a high budget 
 and built a new stadium. I played one season with them and was down 5 million. (that was after I 
 raised ticket prices really high. I would have had to trade, or let some of my players go, which 
 I didn't like to much. I guess you can make money eventually, but it will take some seasons to 
 do that. Something I really don't want to do. I am now trying as a lower budget team, to see if 
 that will work.
  
  The graphics are pretty good, but EA doesn't seem to let you make the graphics the better. The 
 graphics from last years MVP game look better than this years, which is saying something because 
 they should be better this year. Something I do like that they added are the foul ball animations, 
 as they look realistic.
  
  I would have like to see the sound better, as the sound seems like the same from last year also, 
 so it can be boring and repetitive. 
  
  This game will last you for awhile and even longer if you like to unlock things. Don't worry if 
 you are not hooked right away with this game. I was very worried that I would not enjoy the game 
 after a few minutes of playing it, but after an hour I didn't want to stop. If you are to get any 
 game and especially if you a like realistic baseball game, I highly recommend this game. Even if 
 you like arcadish baseball games get it because you can make the game very easy if you want it 
 to be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: terminus
Rating: 7.9
Date: Mar 15, 2005 2:28 pm PT
Review:  Maybe it's the fact that take-two has inked a deal with major league baseball, I don't know, but 
 this game looks worse to me, plays laggy, I have an atix800xt pe with 3.4ghz p4, 1.24ddr400. The 
 lagg is more in the flaggz around the stadium and in-between the actual play. The actual game play 
 is much tighter.... but overall...... I did not like this game.... looking wise, and the sound was 
 not as good as last years I believe.
  
  I'm going to sell this one on ebay soon and just keep last years to tell you the truth... maybe 
 I'll wait for a patch or two.... need higher rez'z and better art on players.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrwiggles11
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 9, 2005 1:28 am PT
Review:  
  MVP Baseball 2005 is the new installment to the baseball series which is brought to you by EA Sports. 
 I am not a fan of baseball and I do not own any baseball game. I thought that I would have some 
 fun smashing the ball and totally owning any team I came across, but this was not the case. I found 
 this game very hard, probably due to my novice abilities in the MVP baseball series. The game delivers 
 a great experience for fans of baseball. It is challenging, yet it can definitely be mastered and 
 adored. However, due to my irregularity as a MLB fan, I doubt I will be playing it. If you do not 
 own a baseball game and are new to this type of gameplay, you should definitely rent the game before 
 purchasing it. 
  
  MVP Baseball 2005 offers many game modes that any player can appreciate. There is the instant game 
 mode (Play Now) , dynasty mode, home run derby, owner mode, exhibition matches and also the online 
 component. The game offers tones of options and features to suit your liking. You can change your 
 batter rotation, pitcher status, depth chart, field placement and even manage your hot and cold 
 zones when batting. The game allows you to edit all your favorite players attributes and other 
 given data. So, if you are a fan of Sammy Sosa you can stack him up and give him 99% on all his 
 abilities. Having ratings of 99 will not guarantee you a clean hit of the ball or a MLB championship. 
 The batting was quite difficult to grasp for me and I found that I could never hit the ball at 
 the perfect time to deliver that extra power to my swing. 
  
  Just like any other EA Sports game you have total control of the players on your team and all other 
 owner variables. Changing the prices of concessions and making sure to fall in grounds of the 
 salary cap. The dynasty mode stretches for up to 120 years of professional baseball which I doubt 
 anyone will ever accomplish unless simulating the game. 
  
  The rosters are generally correct with some recent trades and free agent roster movements that 
 you will need to make. I am not a fan of baseball but I do know who Barry bonds is and I do know 
 that he plays for the Giants. But where is he? Have they purposely taking him out due to his drug 
 conspiracy? I think not! I didnt find this player on the team or on any team for that matter. 
 What I assume is that you would need to unlock this player but that is totally ludicrous! Why would 
 I perform some crazy record to attain one MLB player? Instead, I just created this player and I 
 also helped create myself with the create-a-player function.
  
  A big fault of this game that I experienced is that it is incompatible with a lot of PC joysticks 
 and controllers. Maybe EA should have put a control compatibility list on the back of the game 
 before encouraging players to purchase their product. I have 3 controllers at home and none of 
 them worked! Even a calibrated controller that was under the list of the approved joysticks did 
 not work! I ended up using the keyboard function which was surprisingly easy to do. Just some arrow 
 buttons and a swing button and I was all done. However, I have noticed that it could have been 
 my irregular keyboard guided controlling for a sports game, that made me play so terribly.
  
  The EA online component is well organized and easy to follow for both newcomers and veteran 
 EA online PC gamers. You are given rankings and various other similar options from the EA community. 
 I played a couple games online and I had chosen the 1st placed team in the game (Boston Red Sox) , 
 and I faced one of the last placed teams (Blue Jays) and I got totally massacred. Obviously I am 
 not good at the game but I found the momentum that other players got was unfair. Not only did online 
 players do this but the computer also had spurts of greatness slamming home runs and RBIs hit 
 after hit (on rookie mode!) . The game is very difficult to adjust to if you are a newcomer and 
 I strongly discourage you from purchasing this title. 
  
  The gameplay in MVP Baseball 2005 is stable. There is not a lot of controls that you must memorize 
 so this helps the game attain a valid grade. However, the game is too difficult in all the game 
 modes and on all the suggested difficulty levels. The game does have a system that judges your 
 pitches and swings and tells you if you swung too late or too early, but even when you take their 
 advice, it is not really helpful because each pitch is different. I as a novice baseball gamer 
 found that the game was designed for previous owners of the series and hardcore baseball fans. 
 The pitching system is well designed and is very straight forward. However, when I threw a perfect 
 pitch as stated by the meter bar, I found that the batter totally massacred the ball and usually 
 got a base hit! Obviously my throw was not perfect, but in the batters eyes it was. 
  
  The graphics in this version of the game are average. There is nothing tremendously revolutionary 
 in this game. I have never owned a baseball game but I have seen other people playing theirs. The 
 games graphics are not discouraging but they are also not appealing. EA sports has focused on 
 the large amount of options and has paid attention to detail rather than the general categories 
 of a successful game. The fans are 3-D but are not done well, the stadium walls are very bland 
 and the character models seem a little dated. The sky and the field are probably the most graphically 
 prominent stand outs in the game.
  
  The sound in the game is also average. The commentary is very bland, repetitive and generally boring. 
 The crowds presence is only felt when you deliver a home run or seemingly when you please their 
 tastes. The game offers some adequate songs from various bands and artists. MVP baseball 2005 
 does fail to deliver an immersive sound experience.
  
  Overall the game is a good representation of baseball. The simulation type game play is very challenging 
 and it can become very honorable when you have mastered all its nuts and bolts. The game offers 
 many game features that will please fans of the series (in create a player mode, you can choose 
 from a variety of classic or modern batting stances) . The designed batting system is very simple 
 but is challenging to master. The game would probably have had a more positive impression on me 
 if I was able to use a proper controller device and if I was a fan of baseball. Although I am not 
 a baseball lunatic, coming out as a novice baseball gamer and playing this sports game, I have 
 entered a generally positive note on the baseball genre and would recommend others to try this 
 type of sports experience. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Barabajagal
Rating: 7.9
Date: Mar 6, 2005 5:42 am PT
Review:  Gameplay has definitely improved over last years version. You can actually get strike outs in MVP 
 BB 2005. Without tweaking the game, the balance seems just right at the early goings. However the 
 graphics are less than impressive. 
  
  The onfield visuals are not at all crisp and have a grainy texture when playing at the recommended 
 video settings. You may find yourself experimenting with different display drivers.
  
  New mini games are fun, especially batting practice. The new pitching game is fun but frustation 
 soon enters the picture as you reach the higher rounds because the squares are to small to accurately 
 hit.
  
  Sounds at the ballbark are great, but the play-by-play and color announcers are lame. This year 
 I actually liked the music EA picked out although whatever happened to "Take Me Out the Ballgame" 
 
  
  Too bad this is probably MVP Baseball 2005 last hooray. EA, in my opinion was moving the series 
 in the right direction. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Guapsrocks
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 6, 2005 2:27 am PT
Review:  I have always been a fan of baseball sims but always seemed to be left disappointed. Either the 
 game was to easy or just wasnt enough to keep me interested for very long. 
  Along came MVP 2005 to change all that for me!
  
  Game play is just perfect. Pitching, fielding, 
 batting, its all just perfect. Not to much control to make it arcadish, and not to little control 
 to make it overwhelming finger dexterity testing.
  
  Sounds put you right in the park. Having attended many baseball games in Cincinnati growing up, 
 I felt right in the game. Its really amazing.
  
  As for the announcers. By far the most intelligent commentary I have seen in a sports game to date. 
 Lots of use of Names of players and stats both historical and real time. Very fluid voices. Not 
 choppy, and for the most part, not to repetitive. 
  
  Graphics are top notch. Though I was a little dissappointed I couldnt change the resolution. You 
 are given many options on level of detail you can turn up or down.
  
  This is the highest rating I have given a game to date. Am im not a huge sports fan. Im more into 
 RTS micromanage games. 
  This is really three games in one. In one game you can create, own, operate, and manage your team. 
 Having to hire both management and drafting players all while keeping them all happy (training 
 and saleries) so they are more happy and preform better. 
  Another mode is just playing out a fantisy season.
  As you do well you gain MVP points which 
 will allow you to unlock even more features for the game.
  Im really happy I got this game... 
  
  thanks EA!! Great game.
  
  
  
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
