-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: MVP Baseball 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sports/mvpbaseball2003/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 27, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.1
Critic Score: 8.2, 11 Review (s)
User Score: 8.0, 121 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Sports
Genre: Baseball Sim
Date:     Mar 24, 2003
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
While MVP Baseball 2003 isn't perfect, it's still an impressive first entry in a new sports series 
 and a very good baseball game in its own right. 

  Serious baseball fans crave realistic ball games and player stats, which is why most serious baseball 
 fans haven't much cared for arcade-style games like EA Sports' Triple Play series. So when EA announced 
 that it was replacing Triple Play with MVP Baseball 2003 this year, not many baseball fans were 
 very disappointed. And as it turns out, the new game gets more things right than the entire Triple 
 Play series did in nearly a decade. While MVP Baseball 2003 isn't perfect, it's still an impressive 
 first entry in a new sports series and a very good baseball game in its own right.           Barry 
 Bonds and Pac Bell Park look just like they do on TV.    

  MVP Baseball 2003's most distinctive feature is its interface, which is considerably different 
 from the interface used by most other baseball games in that it offers players more direct control. 
 This is most notable when you're on the mound, as the stereotypical selection of pitch types and 
 pitch location has been replaced with a meter similar to the one used in golf games. After picking 
 a spot, you hold a button for the desired pitch type to get the meter started clocking the velocity. 
 When you have enough power behind the throw, you release the button and then press it again to 
 determine your release point. If your timing is good, you'll be able to paint corners. Misfire 
 and you'll reveal the kind of pitch you're throwing or simply float one over the plate.   

  You'll have to do pretty much the same thing when fielding, or you'll risk wild tosses that result 
 in errors. This system works very well and keeps you involved in the game while pitching, which 
 is definitely a plus if you're the sort of baseball fan who prefers action-packed games and can't 
 wait to get up at bat again. Hitting is also more involved than in the Triple Play games. You just 
 have to press a single button to swing, but you actually have to aim -- and for this, you'll be best 
 served by a good gamepad. To hit a fly or go for the fences, you need to push up in combination 
 with pressing the swing button. Pushing down results in a grounder, and pushing to either side 
 will allow you to pull the ball or go to the opposite field.           Home-run derbies take place 
 on a split screen.    

  But these game mechanics aren't without a few problems. For starters, you can't turn off the pitch 
 meter and go with a more conservative control system. Anyone who wants to break things down to 
 the basics of throwing and swinging will have to look elsewhere. The controls are also overly finicky 
 on both sides of the ball. Pitching is so difficult that it's tough to record strikeouts, at least 
 at first. Computer batters are incredibly patient at all difficulty levels and swing only at good 
 pitches. With practice, you'll start striking out your batters, though you really have to finesse 
 your way to domination on the mound by varying pitch types, locations, and speeds. This may be 
 a good feature in the long run -- especially if you love a challenge and have the patience to play 
 through 20 or more lopsided losses -- but the learning curve seems awfully steep for an arcade-style 
 sports game. Fielding can be flat-out annoying. Using a meter to govern throws in the field seems 
 a bit excessive -- even routine tosses to first and getting the ball in to second from center field 
 can be inordinately complicated. Hitting is also harder than it usually is in these sorts of games. 
 Timing is vital, even at the easier difficulty levels. The ball seems to have a lifelike snap, 
 making it tough to get around on pitches before they reach the safety of the catcher's mitt. All 
 in all, expect to play a lot before you get comfortable.     

  Outside of the control system, MVP Baseball 2003 is a fairly run-of-the-mill arcade-style baseball 
 game. In solo play, you can stage exhibitions, set up a tournament, enter the home-run showdown, 
 or get into a franchise mode that has a fair amount of depth for this sort of title. You won't 
 confuse the game for a management simulation, but the game does have a surprising number of management 
 options, like player contracts, team budgets, a robust player-creation system, and team-specific 
 goals that you have to work toward as a manager over a 10-year term. But the game truly excels 
 in online play. Multiplayer contests, which can be played via LAN, direct IP connection, or the 
 EA Sports Online matching service, emphasize all the interface strengths and minimize artificial 
 intelligence quirks like players not swinging at balls out of the strike zone. Connections are 
 solid on a DSL line, with no slowdown or other obvious issues.           You can put yourself into 
 the game.    

  EA went all out with MVP Baseball's graphics, easily outstripping all competitors with a TV-broadcast-style 
 presentation that's accurate right down to the motion-captured animations, which perfectly capture 
 batting stances and pitching styles. Player faces are recognizable as well, particularly cover 
 boy Randy Johnson, who carries his beanpole frame and trademark growl from the lineup of the Arizona 
 Diamondbacks to the game. The game's stadium art is bright and colorful, and while it's perhaps 
 a bit cartoonlike, it's still very effective at replicating a big-league atmosphere, especially 
 when it comes to the best and brightest parks in the Major Leagues. Play in the bayside home of 
 the San Francisco Giants or the infamous Bronx Zoo of the New York Yankees and you'll feel like 
 you just paid a visit to Pac Bell Park or Yankee Stadium. In a ball game, the strike zone colorfully 
 depicts each hitter's hot zones, and picture-in-picture cameras track runners on base.         
   Pitching in MVP Baseball 2003 uses a meter similar to the one used in golf games.    

  MVP Baseball's audio quality is also excellent. Play-by-play broadcaster Duane Kuiper and color 
 man Mike Krukow of the Giants make keen observations and stay with the on-field events. They also 
 show restraint and keep quiet for long stretches when there isn't much to say -- a welcome trait 
 for anyone who sat through the insufferable "At the Improv" act of Triple Play commentator Jim 
 Hughson. MVP Baseball 2003 really excels at the little things where sound effects are concerned. 
 The crowd noise consists of remarkably varied shouts, whistles, claps, heckles, and calls from 
 eager vendors hawking their wares. Team-specific chants are whipped up in most parks, and organists 
 will get the crowd going at tense moments or when there's a lull in the action.   

  But lulls in the action seem few and far between in MVP Baseball 2003. EA has created one of the 
 most enjoyable arcade-style baseball games of the year, and even though it could use some refinement, 
 MVP Baseball 2003 is a great first step that bodes well for the future of the new series.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (8 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: LuDaDJ
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 6, 2007 11:03 pm PT
Review:  Somewhere along the way, EA Sports' Triple Play series had taken a turn for the worst. What was 
 originally a great baseball series curiously became an arcade slugfest, complete with gimmicks 
 you'd more expect to find in games like NBA Jam and NHL Open Ice, such big head cheats, fire balls, 
 and buying upgrades for your team. Fortunately, EA took a year off to rework the PC version of 
 their baseball sim, rebranding it as MVP Baseball 2003, and the result is the best EA Sports baseball 
 game yet.
  
  As you'd expect from an EA Sports game, presentation is top notch. Graphics are gorgeous. Stadiums 
 are beautifully rendered, and some have live scoreboards that reflect the current game. Some stadiums 
 also have video screens that show a live view of the field. Other specific ballpark nuances are 
 in there, such as the apple in Shea Stadium whenever a Mets player hits a home run. Players look 
 great, and uniforms accumulate dirt over the course of a game. While many players do resemble their 
 real life counterparts, and have their looks and batting stances, the lesser known ones are far 
 too generic. For the players that EA didn't really work on, the models look the same. Broken bats 
 are a nice touch as well.
  
  The play by play announcers, Mike Krukow and Duane Kiper, occasionally make some mistakes, but 
 are generally excellent, and they provide interesting tidbits about the teams that are playing. 
 The crowd sounds a lot more involved. There are some player specific chants, such as when Derek 
 Jeter comes up to bat, and chants of MVP whenever star players come up to bat. Vendors can be heard 
 in the stands as well.
  
  MVP Baseball 2003 introduces new pitching and hitting mechanics. The pitching meter makes its first 
 appearance an EA Sports baseball game, which allows you to control the effectiveness and location 
 of pitches. As for batting, the strike zone for each batter is divided into hot, cold, and neutral 
 zones, which reflects the batter's ability to handle pitches in those areas. Batting is all about 
 timing, and you'll notice that it's a lot harder to gauge the speeds of pitches, and mixing speeds 
 is more effective than it ever was in the Triple Play series. Occasionally, pitchers will make 
 mistake pitches, and you'll see the location of the pitch show up in the strike zone as it's being 
 thrown.
  
  While the AI may do some impressive things, such as fielders getting into position and backing 
 up plays, the base running AI leaves a lot to be desired. Sometimes runners will make mistakes 
 on the basepaths, most often misjudging hit balls. They'll fail to run on bloop hits, so that occassionally 
 you can throw runners out at second on a ball hit to the outfield. Once, the computer had runners 
 on first and second, and popped the ball up to my first baseman. This was an instance of the infield 
 fly rule, but the computer runner on first made no effort in staying on first, allowing my first 
 baseman to tag him off the bag after the popup was caught.
  
  Overall, the game does feel like an arcade game, which isn't necessarily a bad thing. The pace 
 is pretty quick. True to its arcade roots, relief pitchers don't have to be warmed up.
  
  There are a few gripes I have with the game. There should be a more intuitive way of doing double 
 switches. If you've pinch hit for your pitcher, once the inning is over, you're forced to replace 
 the pinch hitter with a player listed as a pitcher, but because there is no double switch option, 
 you'll have to first change your defensive alignment, then go back a menu screen, then do a pitcher 
 substitution, all with no indication of who's next to bat.
  
  Another problem is that base runners are too slow, and it's nearly impossible to get a stolen base. 
 It works both ways, as throwing out runners attempting to steal second base is all too easy.
  
  Fielding also has its share of problems. There are a few interesting things that will happen 
 when fielding. Fielders will make nearly impossible outrageous catches, and also frequently be 
 facing the wrong way when catching pop ups.
  
  I would have liked to see the ability to warm up pitchers, just to add more of a simulation feel 
 to the game. Also, there's a mysterious lack of intentional walks. Sometimes the CPU pitcher will 
 throw four balls outside, much like an intentional walk, but neither the play by play commentators 
 nor the game itself will acknowledge it. Along the same lines, there is no way of intentionally 
 walking an opposing batter without throwing four outside pitches.
  
  Overall though, MVP Baseball 2003 overcomes these flaws to deliver a very satisfying and enjoyable 
 game, a vast improvement over the Triple Play series. With the new gameplay mechanics, it's not 
 only revolutionary, but fun as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EAfan90
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 18, 2007 10:50 am PT
Review:  The Good:
  -The pitcher-hitter interface is excellent, complete with strong and weak points for each batter. 
 A good pitch will make the hitter guess at what you're throwing, but a poor pitch may reveal where 
 your ball will come across the plate.
  -The franchise mode isn't as deep as some of the new ones out there, but it still has enough meat 
 to keep you busy.
  -The presentation is great, with improved graphics, awesome sound effects and pretty convincing 
 commentary.
  
  The Bad:
  -The computer AI needs some serious work. When pitching, they will rarely go for pitches outside 
 the strike zone, making strikeouts overly difficult. -When the ball is hit, the game automatically 
 switches to the closest fielder to retrieve. Sounds good, right? In actuality, if two fielders 
 are equally close to the ball, the game scrambles back and forth between the two fielders until 
 one catches the ball, or in many cases, doesn't catch the ball.
  -Many offspeed pitches, such as the changeup, seem unrealistically slow.
  -Among the three difficulty 
 levels, rookie and pro are too easy, but all-star is just too hard sometimes. In othere words, 
 the level of difficulty is uneven.
  
  In the end, MVP Baseball 2003 isn't worth getting anymore. If anything, get MVP 2005 or even a 
 game from another series. This game was great for its time, but now that I've had it with the AI, 
 I'm ready to move on to another game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rhodes1
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 8, 2005 7:01 pm PT
Review:  Yeh, i got MVP a while ago and loved it. Its the total package. Nothing can even come close to 
 it. Taht and with is the bestestest game evars.
  
  Alot of people whine at M V P for bein short, but i thought it was just right, about 15 hours of 
 play time. The ending was to easy though, could of been longer and maybe an actualy boss would 
 of been nice, but otherwise it was perfect and fun..
  
  Looo ooooo ooooo ooooo oooo ooooo oooo oooo oooo oooo ooo ooo oooooo ooooooooo oooo oooooo ooo 
 ooo oooo ooo ooo oo o ooo ooo ooooooooo ooooo ooooove it
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackhawk887
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 6, 2003 10:33 pm PT
Review:  EA Sports in the past has not had much success in its baseball titles. The sometimes over-rated 
 developer and publisher has excelled in its hockey, football, and basketball games almost fully. 
 Electronic Arts made one of theiir best decisions in their existence: to cancel the Triple Play 
 Series to make way for a simply better baseball game. MVP Baseball 2003, EA's new baseball title, 
 succeeds perfectly in what it tries to do: to make a half arcade, half simulated, enjoyable baseball 
 game. 
  
  Let's start with the gameplay. With its new game, EA has re-defined the pitcher-batter interface 
 with its new slanted view. Previous reviewers have complained that they cannot hit the corners, 
 but they are simply wrong. It's not easy, but its possible. One must hold down 2 keys. For example, 
 if you want a pitch high and inside, you hold 8 and 6 on the num-pad, then select the pitch, etc. 
 The next thing is hitting. Hitting gets really tough, especially in the higher levels of difficulty. 
 One thing that I don't like is that the developers based the hitting 90% on timing, and about 10 
 % on placement. That's a nuance, and so is home run hitting. Sure, in the Triple Play series, a 
 game could have been called a home-run derby, but its nearly impossible to hit a home run in this 
 game. For example, in my franchise with the Yankees, I have only 6 home runs with Derek Jeter in 
 August! Whereas he has 80 something RBI. Derek Jeter may not be the most powerful hitter, but he 
 can hit some out of the park! Next thing is baserunning. Baserunning is ANNOYING, and very CONFUSING. 
 I had to play about 20 games in my franchise before fully understanding the concept behing baserunning 
 in this game. Stealing bases is tough, but if you have a fast enough runner, and you slide head 
 first each time (Right CTRL) , you'll steal the base. Baserunning isn't that hard wheen you have 
 only one runner on base, but when you have 2 or more, boy is it tough. And I can't really explain 
 what's so tough about it, you have to know what keys to press at each time or you're out. And it's 
 also impossible to reach a base safely in a run down. Another thing that's annoying is the fact 
 that the play moves faster than the player runs. In real MLB, a runner is usually 3/4 to 1st base 
 before he is thrown out on a ground ball, whereas in MVP, it's different. OK, there's a scarcity 
 of ground ball outs in this game, almost 80% of the outs are line drives hit to second base or 
 shortstop, or theyre flyouts. And if there is a ground ball hit, sometimes the hitter isn't even 
 halfway there before being thrown out. Enough of me rambling on about the problems of this game. 
 To look on the bright side, the graphics are a lot better. Player faces are nicely done, and animations 
 are great. The sound is also keen, and sometimes gets repetitive, but its fine. One small thing 
 I noticed is that when a player hits a home run, when he is rounding the bases, his feet don't 
 touch any of the bases. 
  
  The game modes consist of the following: exhibition, franchise, tournament, and home run showdown. 
 Exhibition is a simple, two team bada bing bada boom "I want to play a quick game" type mode. The 
 franchise has been DEEPLY improved in this year's game. There are 10 team goals for each team, 
 and depending on the team, can be easier or harder to accomplish these goals. The simulated league 
 seems to be fine, as in standings and statistics. The other mode is home run showdown. It's basically 
 where you pick a person from the AL or NL and go head to head w/ another person from another league. 
 It's basically home run derby, except you have to reach a certain distance (e. g. 1 mile) before 
 you can win. 
  
  As in Gamespot's review, EA Sports has made a solid re-entry into the highly competitive baseball 
 console/pc game market with its MVP Baseball franchise. In a patch or two, some technical problems 
 should be able to be fixed, and in next year's version, they should think more about realism. If 
 you want an arcade baseball game, get SlugFest. EA, IMO, attempted to make a realistic baseball 
 simulation, but failed in all aspects. If you want a more arcade type baseball game which still 
 delivers some true baseball experience, go with MVP Baseball 2003, but if I were you, I'd wait 
 for the 2004 version. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BucketSmith
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 31, 2003 11:11 am PT
Review:  MVP is definitely an improvement over the "homer-fests" of past years, but there are still some 
 major problems with realistic baseball play. Having played major college baseball and in the Houston 
 organization for three years, (and having played baseball since I was 4) , I think I am qualified 
 to say that there are some things missing here...
  
  Before I rant and rave about the problems, let me say that I like the thinking and the direction 
 EA is going with the pitcher/batter interface, and the graphics and sound are outstanding. If EA 
 continues to improve these facets of the product, in a few years this might be the best ever...
 
  
  I realize that this is geared more towards an arcade tilt than an Earl Weaver style strategy game, 
 so I am not going to criticize the lack of strategic aspects of the game. Maybe someday we will 
 be blessed with a game that does it all... my gripes about the game are more towards the gameplay 
 itself.
  
  1. Very difficult to pitch to the corners - it's either a strike or a ball way outside the zone. 
 Pitchers make their living on the black part of the plate - we can't pitch there in this game. 
 I would also like to see a little less accuracy in the pitching - it is too easy to have perfect 
 control all the time.
  
  2. 90% of all balls hit are fly balls - not many ground balls to the infield. When was the last 
 time you saw a MLB game where a team lined out to an infielder every other at bat?
  
  3. Stealing a base is next to impossible - the catchers all have guns, and are deadly accurate 
 every time...
  
  These are initial impressions of the major problems - there are others that are less glaring, but 
 these definitely make the game stumble in a major way. I have played 10 games - I'm 10-0 in franchise 
 mode with the Red Sox and my long relief pitchers haven't sniffed the mound yet... my strike outs 
 are low, and I haven't walked a batter this season... as well, I'm 1 for 26 stealing bases... I'd 
 say there is still some work to do. I could go on, but my fingers are tired... and I'm sure you 
 get the point.
  
  But - it is better than the past - and maybe with a patch or two they can "real" some of these 
 problems in.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RadioMan
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 31, 2003 11:02 am PT
Review:  I'm thankful that EA finally got their collective act together and made a decent baseball game. 
 After buying and attempting to play the non-updated/patched High Heat 2003 last year, I vowed to 
 never buy a High Heat product again. Phew, MVP Baseball is awesome. True the pitching meter is 
 quite different, it's also quite fun. It actually challenges you to throw a good or bad pitch, 
 rather than just hitting the button. I don't think the learning curve is tough, like others do, 
 I picked it up within an hour. The sound is perfect and puts you in the stadium. The graphics rock 
 and the players look realistic, not the scrunchy, lemon-face of other baseball games. The announcers 
 rarely repeat anything and actually have good & relevant things to say. I can't think of any negatives, 
 as I like the changes, except that gameplay seems a bit rushed sometimes. Although having a baseball 
 game play out in less than three hours is most likely a good thing. :-) Enjoy this great baseball 
 game, you won't be sorry! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slimmc
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 29, 2003 9:50 pm PT
Review:  I'm quite pleased that there is a decent baseball game on PC this year. I was a longtime fan of 
 the High Heat Baseball series until last year's edition, which was disappointingly unoriginal, 
 had antiquated graphics, and was loaded with bugs. EA has introduced a new baseball series and 
 it shows a good deal of promise. In proud EA tradition, the graphics are quite good, as are the 
 sound and commentary. MVP Baseball has the general appearance of a baseball game designed by and 
 for baseball fans. The game isn't without its problems, however. The one that sticks out the most 
 for me is the lack of option in switching between the complicated batting and throwing method offered 
 and something more traditional. The learning "curve" for this game is quite long in my opinion. 
 Overall, this is a very good game and solid start for the MVP Baseball series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GreyHairedGamer
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 28, 2003 12:11 pm PT
Review:  For my money this is the best PC Baseball game on the market. It combines superb graphics and sound 
 with fun and exciting game play.
  
  It is the Madden of Baseball if you will. I love the Franchise mode. You are given clear goals 
 that you have to achieve as the manager of a team within a 10 year window. Such goals are 3 seasons 
 over .550, .600 division record in 2 seasons and make the playoffs in 3 seasons there are more 
 of course.
  
  The game really puts you on the pitchers mound and in the batters box. Fielding is the ball is 
 exceptional in the fact that you make decisions at the same speed that a ball player would. 
  
  As for strike-outs, yes my first 3 or 4 games I couldnt even say I was able to get a strike 
 off a batter. But now Im averaging 4 to 5 Ks a game with a decent pitcher of course.
  
  Stats are a plenty in the game and there is a lot you can do with managing the team as well. Whether 
 youre an avid baseball fan or just like a good sports game this one wont be a disappointment. 
 It really deserves better then the 8.1 rating it received.
  
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
