-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: MX vs. ATV Unleashed
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/driving/mxvsatvunleashed/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Responsive controls.
 Floaty physics are fun.
 Outdoor tracks are imaginatively designed.
 Lots of modes will keep you busy.
 Track editor adds life to the gameif you're patient.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Player usually gets short end of the collision stick.
 Game tends to lack challenge at all but most difficult level.
 Airborne races are maddeningly frustrating.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb  3, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.7
Critic Score: 7.1, 11 Review (s)
User Score: 8.1, 356 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: THQ
Developer: Rainbow Studios
Genre: Rally / Offroad Racing
Date:     Jan 16, 2006 &raquo;  
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
MX vs. ATV Unleashed is a fast-paced and fun-filled arcade racing game, loaded with enough variety 
 of content to keep you engaged for quite a while. 

  MX vs. ATV Unleashed found success on the Xbox and PlayStation 2 last year with a fast-paced and 
 approachable style of dirt racing that had you piloting everything from MX bikes to souped-up golf 
 carts. Now, MX vs. ATV has been "unleashed" onto PCs and, because it's a fairly literal port of 
 the console game, the same sense of control and amenable fun is left well intact, along with a 
 few PC-only extras.  

          The take-off was fun, but the landing is going to sting.     

  Though motocross bikes 
 and ATV four-wheelers are at the heart of the rides found in MX vs. ATV Unleashed, they are far 
 from the only machines available to race. The game tosses everything but the transportation equivalent 
 of the kitchen sink at you -- golf carts, dune buggies, monster trucks, helicopters, and biplanes 
 are only a portion of the available rides. This may sound like great fun, but the controls for 
 some of these vehicles -- particularly the airborne ones -- are frustrating and unresponsive, a stark 
 contrast to the majority of the earthbound racers.  

  Though you can use the keyboard controls to pilot the vehicles in Unleashed -- and naturally customize 
 the keyboard mappings as you see fit -- your best bet will be using a USB controller, preferably 
 one with dual analog sticks. Unfortunately, even after you've gotten your controls mapped properly, 
 the airborne vehicle controls remain the same and don't seem to have changed at all since the console 
 version. Therefore, any race involving flight is an exercise in frustration, which is probably 
 why they are so haphazardly (and infrequently) placed throughout the game.  

  Even when you're racing the two- and four-wheeled beauties, you can expect to spend plenty of time 
 in the air. The same bouncy physics model that has propelled previous ATV and MX games is in full 
 effect here in MX vs. ATV Unleashed. Your bike will rocket off the lip of a jump and propel you 
 high into the air, where you'll be free to perform as many point-grabbing-style tricks as you can 
 manage before descending back to earth. If you manage to preload your suspension (by moving the 
 left thumbstick backward, then forward) before your wheels leave the ground, you'll gain even more 
 air. Preloading your bike's suspension is a key technique for navigating the bump-filled courses 
 found in MX vs. ATV, but it won't be a technique you use for each jump. In fact, the game effectively 
 forces you to choose your spots for preloading -- take a jump too long and you may crash directly 
 into the apex of another hill; take it too short and you'll lose precious momentum.  

  Your knowledge of how to navigate the tracks is the key ingredient to winning races. There doesn't 
 seem to be much in the way of performance differences among vehicles of the same type, so in all-ATV 
 or all-MX races, your main advantage will be knowing exactly how to tackle each hill you encounter 
 on a course.  

  This is made all the more intriguing by the imaginative and immersive environments. While the majority 
 of the stadium-based motocross tracks are only mediocre, the track designs come to life in the 
 outdoor courses. The 16 Nationals Championship series events, for example, are a tantalizing mix 
 of forest courses, dusty desert roadways, snowy mountain trails, and sandy beachside tracks. The 
 wide variety in track types is further bolstered by individual features that are sure to provide 
 thrills lap after lap. Huge pillars of dirt -- resembling walls more than jumps -- dot tracks that 
 find you leaping felled trees, open-air gulches, and even your competition. As you speed your way 
 toward the finish line, the dirt tracks twist and turn, wrenching your ATV or bike from side to 
 side as you try to keep up with the constantly shifting camber.  

          See? Told you so...     

  On the most difficult sections of track, such as tight hairpin 
 turns, you're best course of action is to make liberal use of the clutch control found in MX vs. 
 ATV. Using the clutch lets you gain short bursts of speed around tight corners or at the start 
 of a race. It takes some getting used to, but it soon becomes an essential weapon in your driving 
 arsenal. Then there are the tricks you can perform, imaginatively titled stunts such as "the lazy 
 boy," "the can can," and "the nothing." For each trick you successfully land, you'll earn points 
 that can be spent in the store to unlock new rides, gear, pro riders, and tracks, among other goodies. 
     

   

  There's simply a lot to do in the game's many modes. Most players will spend the majority of their 
 time either online -- racing against up to six other players -- or in the championships mode. Here, 
 you'll be able to run a series of races in either the Nationals series or the THQ SX series, both 
 of which are composed of 16 race events. The Nationals series features the outdoor courses, while 
 the THQ SX championship is made up of supercross courses. Unlike other modes in the game, these 
 two series are restricted to either ATVs or MX motocross bikes and feature multiple heats. Also 
 in both series, you'll be periodically challenged to one-off races that will have you racing the 
 aforementioned trophy trucks, helicopters, or biplanes. Win the challenge and you unlock the winning 
 ride; lose, and all you've lost is your pride (or in the case of the air races, a little bit of 
 your sanity) .  

          Do you like to go fast, straight, and UP for 10 seconds at a time? If so, the hillclimb 
 is for you.     

  Other modes include a single-player game, which features freestyle, free ride, one-on-one challenges, 
 and individual racing events, such as hill climbs, waypoint races, and short tracks; multiplayer 
 racing, both online and split-screen style; a quick race feature; and a training mode that will 
 introduce you to the basics of high-speed dirt driving, as well as some of the finer control points. 
 The same variety found in MX vs. ATV's single-player mode is also available online. Straight-ahead 
 races are the norm, but you can also compete in events such as the points challenge, where the 
 player who can rack up the most points in a preset time limit is the winner. Online races via either 
 Internet or LAN run with minimal lag, and the controls are as responsive online as they are offline. 
 Like in the single-player game, you're limited to a maximum of six competitors in a single race. 
 Also, the multiplayer interface is a bit confusing and poorly organized. If you wish to chat with 
 folks in the lobby before a race, for example, you have to exit out to a chat window, and then 
 return back to the main lobby and watch as your text appears.  

  The biggest addition to the PC version of Unleashed is a track-creation tool that has everything 
 you need to create the hill climb or MX supercross track of your dreams. The tool lets you focus 
 on everything from the exact height and frequency of undulations in the track to building massive 
 30-feet-high jumps, all of which can be tested practically right away by firing up the game and 
 giving it a go. There's clearly a lot of depth in the track editor and, even if its layout might 
 not be that user-friendly to novices, the ability to race your user-created tracks online adds 
 some depth that simply can't be found in the console version of the game.  

  The graphics in the PC version are serviceable and have sharper textures, thanks to the PC's higher 
 processing power. The dirt textures on the roads look appropriately dingy, though the bikes don't 
 always kick up as much mud as you might expect them to. That's just being nitpicky, though, because 
 it's really an overall solid graphical package that runs at a speedy clip and saves the special 
 lighting effects for tracks that make the most of them -- such as the snowy Northern Lights course 
 complete with an aurora borealis painting the sky.  

  So what's not to like in MX vs. ATV? For one, experienced players won't find much challenge except 
 on the hardest difficulty settings, as the game lets you stay in a race even if you fall well behind. 
 In effect, the biggest challenge is racing against the course, rather than racing against MX vs. 
 ATV's computer-controlled opponents. Furthermore, collision detection can be spotty against other 
 opponents. You generally won't crash if you sideswipe an opponent, yet when the time does come 
 for either you or your artificial intelligence opponent to take a tumble, it's usually you who 
 takes the fall. On the plus side, the loading times that were fairly ugly in the console versions 
 of the game are much improved on the PC.  

          Next up: MX vs. ATV vs. Bigfoot vs. a dude on Rollerblades.      

  While we're tempted 
 to write off the soundtrack simply for including a Nickelback song, in all honesty, the music found 
 in MX vs. ATV does well in keeping with the rugged vibe of the game and features acts such as Papa 
 Roach, Ozomatli, and Phunk Junkeez. The whining bleats of the ATV and motocross bike engines sound 
 true to life, if not extremely varied, and attempts at adding environmental noises, such as chirping 
 birds and hooting owls, are fine, if unremarkable.  

  Because the air races found in MX vs. ATV Unleashed are so frustrating, one wonders why they even 
 made it in the first place, especially when you consider how fun the game is with two (or more) 
 wheels on the ground. Still, MX vs. ATV Unleashed is a fast-paced and fun-filled arcade racing 
 game, loaded with enough variety of modes and unlockable content to keep you engaged for quite 
 a while.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (14 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: darkPSPfan
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 22, 2007 6:18 am PT
Review:  i was lookin for a game with MX's and/or ATV's. so i came up with this game. after few minutes 
 i realised this game kicks butt cheeks. the graphics are quite good. the models are great and detailed, 
 enviroments look great and textures arent boring. when you start playin the game you might have 
 some problems adjusting to the handling but after few races or free riding time, you get used to 
 it. it has a lot of unlockables, lot of race modes and a lot of race tracks. you can race, have 
 freestyle combats or simply ride your heart out as much as you want with free ride. theres also 
 some music but there arent many tracks though. the sounds are quite nice, probably as they should 
 be. game really makes you wonder what will the next one in series (MX vs ATV: untamed) be like. 
 if itll good, ill buy it for my PSP though.
  
  fav. enviroment: Calgary fav. freestyle vehicle: 500cc MX
  fav. race vehicle: 250cc MX
  fav. 
 and most fun vehicle to ride: ATV
  fav. race mode: open class 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 19682685635022650119595314255397-kqlyn
Rating: 7.2
Date: Mar 27, 2006 12:38 pm PT
Review:  The first thing you will notice when you fire up the game is the graphics. They are like... ****ing 
 plain!! The game looks like a ****ing Playstation 2 game, but then again it IS a PS2 port. So there's 
 not much to blame. But anyways the graphics are solid and get the job done. You'll have fun with 
 the game once you unlock the fast rides (though you'll be bored to oblivion and back with the slow 
 rides you have to play with in the beginning) .
  
  If you have a weak ass PC you'll still be able to run this game maxed out I think. But I recommend 
 you this game only if you can find it for $15 or less, any higher than that would be a ripoff. 
 
  
  Still, I recommend you get MotorStorm instead if you plan to have a Playstation 3. Because once 
 you play MX vs ATV you'll be wishing for a real off-road racing game. And MX vs ATV lacks the main 
 things needed for a great off-road game... amazing graphics and physics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sean4566
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 17, 2006 5:56 am PT
Review:  MX vs. ATV is not a bad game at all, but its not the best either. The reason, we've done this before! 
 Flyed Planes, and especially drive MX bikes and ATV's. If you like the game on the consoles you 
 will not be disapointed, because other than the track editor they are pretty much the same game. 
 The controls are a bit unresponsive and laggy, which isnt good for a motor sports game (Which there 
 was a wierd bug that you couldn't turn left with the gas down?) . If you liked the console versions 
 pick it up, but if you didn't play those try the demo first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maulica
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 2, 2006 7:28 am PT
Review:  I played this game for a week or so . I was impressed by the good quality of the graphics , but 
 that is about all. I am not a big fan of the sport and not a big fan of bikes either, probably 
 that is why it faded away and did not grow on me . I would have liked something more , I am not 
 quite sure what , but I have a feeling that something is missing . Of course , for the fans of 
 the sport and dirt track racing I would have to say that the game will probably meet their expectations. 
 It is pretty good but it lacks consistency . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rdhnightwolf
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 27, 2006 11:42 am PT
Review:  I have to say, this game is pretty much what motocross madness 3 should have been if Microsoft/Rainbow 
 ever decided to make it. I was addicted to Motocross Madness 2 when it came out and have been waiting 
 for the next chapter since. This game is it. The game feels exactly like MM2. The sounds are on 
 par for the vehicles, the music is great, and the graphics of the game are awsome. The locations 
 are truely great to race in. I love the feeling of being in a race in Hawaii, or in Egypt. Some 
 of the tracks were a bit frustrating with the jumps, but most were easy to counter the next time 
 around.
  
  The variety of vehicles in this game is excellent. ATVs, baha trucks, monster trucks, buggys. It's 
 all here. I could have done without the flying vehicles, but it's interesting to try them out.
 
  
  All in all, this game is fun SP, or MP. LAN partys have been a hoot with everyone racing around 
 on the tracks and slamming into one another while taking the turns. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: superdave132
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 13, 2006 4:03 pm PT
Review:  It seems thq has improved the graphics and gameplay of this version over the x box version which 
 I bought and returned because it crashed my x box .
  This version ROCKS with the incredible graphics and fast gameplay, the graphics are MUCH sharper 
 especially on high end gaming systems and when you attach a joystick, the feel of the game comes 
 to life and pulls you into the game much better, unlike the slow clumsy thumbstick on the x box.
 
  this is one game that is better for the pc then the xbox. the tracks and the dirt come to life 
 and I highly recommend this version over the xbox version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: visormax
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 12, 2006 5:06 am PT
Review:  Good at some times bad at others. 
  OK. I've been playing this game for a while now and I really enjoy it. Even though at some times 
 it gets annoying from messing up on the jumps and crashing almost every time I'm starting to get 
 better at it and I'm not crashing that much.
  
  It has a lot of different types of game play which will keep me playing it alot more.
  
  The 
 National things and the Supercross things are fun but with the practice laps, Which is always good 
 to do so you know when you should pre load or not and when the turns come. Then there is the heat 
 laps and then the final which doing all of this takes a long time and makes you do some of the 
 race with 5 laps so you do 15 laps all together. Which is really boring.
  
  I haven't played any of the airborne races but of what I've heard they sound annoying. Another 
 thing is with the other machines like the buggy and the monster it seems for me that on a track 
 that you mostly go on with a MX or a ATV it is really hard to go on with the other machines. I 
 have no control.
  
  For me it has the best soundtrack I've seen in a while. And also the engine sounds and environment 
 sounds are awesome. You can make it so there is super high engine sounds and no music or lots of 
 music and no engine sounds. So you can make it how you want it.
  
  It's a great game even though it does have some cons which with some practice will fad away like 
 the landings. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AngelOfSuicide
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 10, 2006 11:16 am PT
Review:  yeah the game is pretty cool it has some good songs and stuff to it, but there really isn't much 
 to do. There isn't a story mode do it can get kind of boring and pointless but overall i like it. 
 The vehicles sound cool the bikes sound better than the ones on MTX (Moto Trax) but the supercross 
 tracks kind of suck. I play it every once in a while when it sounds good. when i play it it gets 
 kind of addictive but then im just looking for metal gear solid. but you should try it out if you 
 like monster trucks, golf carts, dirt bikes, ATV's and much more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingSlacker
Rating: 6.7
Date: Feb 8, 2006 5:04 pm PT
Review:  Pretty fun game, that can get addicting, and a fun to use track builder, but its almost a direct 
 port from the xbox, which is abismal, the amount of time it took them to port this game over is 
 horrible, they could have made a whole new, 10x better game by then. But, overall a fun game to 
 play. Im still dissapointed in the fact that they didnt make a new one, but i am expecting a big 
 improvement for the next Mx game. If you have an xbox, dont bother with the pc version, the only 
 plus on the pc version is the track builder, which can ber pretty annmoying at times, requires 
 a lot of patience from you, and the program. Have fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ReapX
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 4, 2006 6:09 am PT
Review:  OK. I've been playing this game for a while now and I really enjoy it. Even though at some times 
 it gets annoying from messing up on the jumps and crashing almost every time I'm starting to get 
 better at it and I'm not crashing that much.
  
  It has a lot of different types of game play which will keep me playing it alot more.
  
  The 
 National things and the Supercross things are fun but with the practice laps, Which is always good 
 to do so you know when you should pre load or not and when the turns come. Then there is the heat 
 laps and then the final which doing all of this takes a long time and makes you do some of the 
 race with 5 laps so you do 15 laps all together. Which is really boring.
  
  I haven't played any of the airborne races but of what I've heard they sound annoying. Another 
 thing is with the other machines like the buggy and the monster it seems for me that on a track 
 that you mostly go on with a MX or a ATV it is really hard to go on with the other machines. I 
 have no control.
  
  For me it has the best soundtrack I've seen in a while. And also the engine sounds and environment 
 sounds are awesome. You can make it so there is super high engine sounds and no music or lots of 
 music and no engine sounds. So you can make it how you want it.
  
  It's a great game even though it does have some cons which with some practice will fad away like 
 the landings. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nicka105
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 23, 2006 6:25 pm PT
Review:  this game is a way better than the console version. the game is very smooth. it makes you want 
 to go start up your and ride away. at first i thought motorcross madness 2 was the best mx game 
 ever, but this gives it a good competition. if you like dirt bikes you should defenitely go get 
 this game. it also has atvs. the thing i like about the game the most are the graphics. you can 
 pick up on the game pretty easily. first try the demo onthe games profile and see if you like it. 
 if you like the demo you will love the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alhaj
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 21, 2006 4:30 pm PT
Review:  Well... the game looks good... good graphics... good game-play,
  This is the first game that I buy from the MX vs. ATV series... also the first one from THQ!!
 
  mmmmm. actually I don't have anything else to add... cuz I didn't get to play it that much, I've 
 only started to play in the championship... looks great so far, and its fun too... cuz it lets 
 you choose in what you gonna race with... choosing between an ATV or MX .!!
  It's not all... you can even drive a monster truck and jeeps or something like that, I think!!!
 
  
  If you one of those gamers or just somebody who loves ATV's and Motocross ... This is the game 
 for you.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: geryslav
Rating: 1.6
Date: Jan 20, 2006 1:58 pm PT
Review:  in first look i thought wow at last bike game to the pc but when i started to play i knew it was 
 waste of time/ horrible graphics gameplay and everything else. a little advice-if you are bike lover 
 dont buy this game if you aren't bike lover-don't buy this game. in the game when you turn you fill 
 like you are turning a lego bike i think the developers thought why won't we make a game of bikes 
 but idiots you dont know anything about bikes and we can see it in the game maybe next time fix 
 it or even better-dont think and don't make game like this anymore. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Austin84
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 19, 2006 1:25 pm PT
Review:  When I got this game I knew it would be in the top games! The graphics are amazing! This is the 
 best game ever! And I thought motocross maddness 2 was a great game? This tops that game by a score 
 of  This game is a must have! When ever 
 you get a chance, buy this GAME!
  THQ and Rainbow studios, you'all did a great job!!! The  
 Game ever! Dont waist your time with Motocross Maddness 2! Get MX vs. ATV Unleashed Today!!!!!!!!!! 
 You will be thrilled! Strap your self in for the ride of your life, Racing Dirt Bikes, ATV's, Monster 
 Truck's, Golf kart's Go kart's and more!!! Treat your self and get this game today!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
