-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Myst
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/myst/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May  1, 1996
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.9
Critic Score: 8.8, 6 Review (s)
User Score: 8.4, 1,650 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Broderbund
Developer: Cyan Worlds
Genre: Adventure
Date:     1995 &raquo;  
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Myst is an immersive experience that draws you in and won't let you go. 

 The PC entertainment timeline is divided into two segments: before Myst and after Myst. This engaging 
 and Mysterious title changed the way we view PC games. Reviewers, hard-pressed for adjectives, 
 often describe new CDs as "Myst-like." And you'll be hard-pressed to find any reviews that say 
 a product has gone beyond Myst.  

 Myst is an immersive experience that draws you in and won't let you go. You enter a unique setting, 
 venturing alone to varied times and places, the worlds that compose Myst. There are no instructions, 
 and you encounter no living beings but soon realize your actions may help individuals who are somehow 
 trapped in a parallel dimension.  

 You don't so much play Myst, as experience it. Of course you must solve a multitude of puzzles, 
 mazes, and problems, but Myst's principal attractions are its environment and the underlying intrafamily 
 drama that unfolds as you explore.  

 Unlike most adventure games, Myst offers no inventory, no death, and no dialogue. Although puzzles 
 don't seem to have much direct connection to the game, they share a commonality. They take on many 
 forms but follow a consistent thread. Some puzzles are very challenging, even obtuse, creating 
 an odd paradox: many buy Myst, but few complete it. It is immensely popular, but most nonadventurers 
 quit in frustration. Fortunately, Myst's popularity has spawned several online sites for hints, 
 walk-throughs, and even saved games (see GameSpot's Myst-links) .  

 While Myst is superlative, I do have two complaints: the lack of high-end 3D and animated visuals, 
 and the cheesy ending. Almost all its animations are simple QuickTime videos running in tiny screens. 
 Myst's creators, Rand and Robyn Miller, seamlessly integrated those videos into the background 
 graphics and designed stunning artwork, but simply adding fog is not enough to create a true 3D 
 feel. And the ending is a big let-down, not much more than a plug for Myst II. Nevertheless, if 
 you own a PC, you owe it to yourself to try Myst.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (37 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: GamerOfAgamotto
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 1, 2009 5:02 pm PT
Review:  Myst is a game that will forever be remembered. Impacting the gaming world like nothing before 
 it, Myst was the top selling computer game of all time until the release of The Sims in 2002.
 
  
  
  Myst is also a game that divides people, either people "get it" or they don't. There is no death 
 in Myst, no clock counting down to play against; there is only exploration and puzzle solving. 
 This can give the game a feeling of relaxed freedom although the storyline is so written that it 
 compels the player on, encouraging them to discover what secret lies beyond the next corner.
  
  
  The graphics in Myst are all pre-rendered, static scenes and the player moves from one 
 to the next like a slideshow but each is beautifully realized. Animations are provided by small 
 QuickTime movies which integrate seamlessly with the surroundings.
  
  
  The ambient sounds of Myst, wind blowing through the trees, soft music as you explore the various 
 islands, add to this very personal, almost calm experience of playing the game.
  
  
  Myst's real strength is in its storytelling. The game gives you enough information to peak your 
 curiosity but leaves enough out so that you feel compelled to discover more. The worlds are an 
 absolute joy to explore with may interesting devices and items to ponder over. The puzzles, while 
 quite challenging at times, can be solves with the right amount of lateral thinking.
  
  Myst is indeed as classic adventure game and will remain so for many an Age. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OpratorHunter
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 10, 2008 7:28 pm PT
Review:  This is an adventure game that takes you to the island of Myst, an island that has no inhabitances 
 and only secrets. The story goes that you, the player, have found a book that seems to come out 
 of no where. Interested you read the book and it's detailed description of the island Myst. You 
 touch the last page and are suddenly transported to the island. With no place to go and nobody 
 around to explain, you are left with no choice but to explore. However, even though you are all 
 alone, you soon discover that the choices you make on the island effect others who have come to 
 Myst before you
  Even with the above paragraph that is as far as I can go without spoiling the plot. And the plot 
 I believe is the main reason the game is so interesting. Unlike most games, you can't die in Myst. 
 (But you can lose.) It is also different as you have as much time as you want or wish to spend 
 in Myst.
  The game is hard. I would not recommend it to younger kids because of that point. Not that the 
 'game play' is hard mind you. No that is easy. To play is mainly point and click.
  See the 'game' itself is hard. It takes much time to beat the game because of the puzzles and plot 
 points. To beat the Myst you have to observe, look thoroughly and remember everything. (I recommend 
 grabbing a note book.)
  If you are interested in hard puzzles, adventure games where everything around you has its secrets 
 right down to the surprise ending, then this is the game for you. But be prepared, because your 
 actions are for you to choose alone and the choice you make unwisely might be your last.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: aschuhart
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 14, 2008 5:07 am PT
Review:  Typically I like a good detailed story. Typically I like a good hard challenge. Typically I like 
 something new that comes along and gives gamers something else to play and try. So from the sound 
 of it, Myst should have been right up my ally but for some reason... it was not. I just couldn't 
 immerse myself in this game and I just got incredibility BORED with it and never could really play 
 it for long. Now keep in mind, last time I played this game was when it was new... and I was only 
 15. However other similar point and click puzzle games like Blown Away and 7th Guest did hold my 
 intrest, so don't think I was just some ADD teenager who drank to much Mt. Dew and played nothing 
 but shooters.... sure I had/have ADD drank/still drink to much Mt. Dew and played/still play a lot 
 of shooters but that's besides the point! :P 
  
  I can't say that I really didn't give this game a try. I tried several times to get into it but 
 I think it's major flaw to me was the lack of dialog. Now while for many, this might have ruined 
 their experience, I think it might've helped quite a few people get a "foothold" on this game and 
 make it better for them. 
  
  Though I really can't say much about this game, the aspects of it I did really enjoy was the graphics 
 and the sound. Both of which were just amazing and very enjoyable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zehydra
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 9, 2008 2:32 pm PT
Review:  I like this game up to the point that I got it again when I couldn't find it, even though I already 
 knew how to beat the game at that point.
  This game is interesting how it is one of the first first-person games that doesn't have a restricting 
 storyline. What I mean is, it doesn't feel like your watching a movie, but that you're sucked into 
 someone else's world, like what you are playing is real. There is an extensive backstory to read 
 as well, which explains why certain things are the way they are in the game. The gameplay itself 
 is rather minimal. You point and click and point and click and point and click. But this was also 
 made in in 1995 and the game is a puzzle game so it doesn't bother me too much.
  It's a good game. I consider it a classic to the series, which the only game I think that may be 
 better than Myst is Exile, or Myst III.
  
  One warning however.
  If you are not prepared with a paper and a pencil, this game will be very frustrating to play. 
 You will need to write things down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Humikimi
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 12, 2008 2:14 am PT
Review:  I have had Myst since release day, but never bothered to play it because I was too young to figure 
 anything out when I first got it. Well I finally decided to pick it up recently and play it again, 
 only to find a highly detailed and extremely satisfying adventure that I have been missing out 
 on for years.
  
  The story within the game itself is simple and somewhat dull. You find a mysterious book that takes 
 you to an island and you must explore the island and decide who out of three people you must trust 
 and help. Only one leads to a true ending, though there are four endings total. Two of the men 
 are criminals, one is not. It is really as simple as that. Now if you read the prequel novels, 
 a lot of backstory is cleared up and things add up, otherwise as you explore the Ages (worlds) 
 you will only find ominous hints as to what might be the bigger picture. In a way, this is an interesting 
 way of storytelling, but it is unfortunate that outside sources are needed in order to properly 
 enjoy the story of this game, sources which were not even available at launch.
  
  Story complaints aside, the game itself plays great. You simply point and click to move, and you 
 also point and click to interact with the tons of objects. There are a total of 5 Ages to explore 
 (that is including the 'overworld') along with a mini-Age. The puzzles are all ingeniously made, 
 and though they may be a little frustrating, all the clues are always available within your grasp. 
 It is just a matter of putting them together to actually solve the puzzles. The good thing about 
 this game is that it promotes note-taking, which requires organized thought and also some creativity. 
 It is great because it really feels like you are accomplishing something when playing, because 
 of the work you put into it, almost like decoding a complicated cipher all by yourself. My only 
 complaint about all this is that there could have been more, and that the game itself is relatively 
 short.
  
  With how puzzle based this game is, it is important to have well drawn and detailed environments. 
 This game fulfills this beautifully. Each Age is unique and well crafted, and despite the age of 
 this game (1993?! That's a long time ago!) , it still looks fantastic with its rendered 3D graphics. 
 I can't really find anything to complain about in the graphics, they look absolutely amazing.
 
  
  The game sounds fantastic as well. Many of the puzzles are sound based, and thankfully the sound 
 effects are very well done. The acting is acceptable as well. You will definately feel truly immersed 
 due to the sound. To top it off, there is (usually) appropriate music that plays at just the right 
 times. It rarely ever feels out of place and does a great job of setting the mood of the locale 
 you happen to be in.
  
  With the type of game this is, you likely won't come back to it again because it just isn't as 
 fun to play when you know how to solve all the puzzles, especially with the series being done at 
 this point, you probably won't even have reason to come back for story purposes. On the bright 
 side, there is a neat 'Making of' video included with the game, which is impressive for its time... especially 
 considering that standard editions of games don't come with 'Making of's even now. 
  
  Overall though, this is a game that is a combination of being an experience, and being a puzzle. 
 It pulls you in and does a great job of keeping you in. Granted, the puzzle-solving may not be 
 appropriate for action-seeking players, but for all others who have a level of patience, this game 
 should not be missed. Enjoy.
  
  NOTE: Unlike the Myst: Masterpiece Edition, the original copy of Myst (that I have reviewed here) 
 DOES work on XP with just a little tweaking. All you need to do is right-click the .exe file, go 
 to Properties, then the Compatibility tab. Make sure it is set to run in Windows 95 mode. That 
 should make it run fine.
  
  Gameplay: 8/10
  Graphics: 10/10
  Sound: 10/10
  Value: 7/10
  
  OVERALL: 9/10 (8.75/10.0) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thrashmaster
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 11, 2008 2:44 am PT
Review:  Myst is a very simple straight forward game. You are a person stuck on an island that is made up 
 of many puzzles that you must figure out to complete the game. 
  The puzzles themselves are not all that difficult to figure out, just simply addictive. It is simply 
 the best Myst in the series in my opinion, the other ones require way to much to figure out and 
 are at time very confusing about where to even go next. 
  The story in the game is fun to unravel because it is told in these video books that are very fuzzy 
 and a lot of the information from them you are forced to use your best judgment to decide what 
 was meant to be in the missing parts. 
  I recommend this game to people who like solving puzzles and enjoy getting involved with a simple 
 story line. Logic is key in this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: texasdanman
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 31, 2007 8:11 am PT
Review:  This is the true beginning of point and click adventure games. Before this it was all lame cell 
 shading, or text with NO PICTURE! The graphics in Myst are still acceptable 13 years later, and 
 the worlds were more imaginative than anything Spielberg has ever accomplished. Now this no Grand 
 Theft Auto, but at the time (1995) it was even more impressive. It was intensely difficult, but 
 this was the way a game with only one hundred picture frames or so lasted months. Every day you 
 would go away to the land of Myst, and wander around each time discovering just a little more. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VitaExodus
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 6, 2007 4:54 pm PT
Review:  Made entirely off of a mac (shudder) , Myst truly set the way for point-click adventure games to 
 come, with amazing hard work put in it and the results speaking for themselves. They say no man 
 is an island but in this case I'm gonna have to disagree...
  
  Somehow you stumble upon the Myst book and get swept in this strange island with all sorts of buildings 
 and things lying around for you to take a look at. Eventually you find 2 brothers trapped inside 
 books trying to convince you to keep putting in pages to the books they're stuck in to set them 
 free. You can either pick one of the brothers to help, or just go explore each place and find another 
 way to win the game. The puzzles can be hard, but not too hard, they require just enough thought 
 to be intriguing but not requiring a mathematics or physics degree (See the sequel for that...) 
 The graphics at the time are top notch - Even now they're still easy on the eyes and imaginative 
 in each of the ages you'll find.
  
  The game can take from 8 hours on to 20+, it depends how clever and smart you can be with the clues 
 you're given. HIghly reccomended in your library of PC games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lebbin
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 27, 2007 10:12 am PT
Review:  I remember playing this with my mom when I was a little boy. I remember seeing the amazing and 
 creative enviorments that were as fun to look at as they were to explore. Navigating the enviorments 
 is the best part of the game, and opening up new areas is a cool experience, even if you know absolutly 
 nothing that your doing. This is a very hard game. The puzzles are very hard, and the average person 
 will not know what to do. You need the guide to play the game, and with it, the game is great. 
 I tried the game again, a year ago, with the guide, and had a good time. I got no where, but hey- 
 the game was fun. This is an adventure game that is addictive as it is immersive, and when you 
 fire the game up on your PC, be ready to enter the world of Myst. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JacksonHSR
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 12, 2007 1:09 pm PT
Review:  My first review is revolving around this PC game. This is still my favorite and just want to tell 
 you a review of Myst. And without further a-doo! Gameplay: A simple point-and-click thing with 
 lots of interactivity! Graphics: The visuals are beautiful! I agree the fact it makes you feel 
 your really there!
  
  Sound: Beautiful environmental sounds and music that match perfectly!
  
  Value: One of a kind 
 classic! Still by far the greatest mystery/point-and click PC game; plus an amazing storyline!
 
  
  Tilt: I've been playing this multiple times and still enjoy it! I highly recommend you play this 
 one of a kind classic! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deadfeet
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 28, 2007 9:02 am PT
Review:  This is the game that launched adventure games full force, with a bang. The minute you insert the 
 CD and begin to play, your eyes stayed glued to the screen in concentration. Even though it uses 
 pre-rendered images and landscape, the graphics are still great, especially back then. Every enviroment 
 is well detailed, forests are lush and green and mechanical gizmos whir and spurt to life in this 
 tale of wonderment and eye candy. The story line is deep and well thought out, which is great. 
 Even if you have already beaten it before, its still fun to play it now. But i warn you, this isn't 
 for the easily fooled. This game requires hard thinking, with difficult puzzles but is rewarding. 
 Once you pop this CD in, be prepared for at least 8 hours of concentration and thinking. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boxinghelena
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 19, 2007 11:25 pm PT
Review:  Myst was one of the first games I ever played hardcore . I would come home from school everyday 
 and play Myst. It was even a family thing as my father, mother, and sister all played it and pitched 
 it. We'd collaborate and play it together, piecing the puzzles and story together bit by bit.
 
  
  The graphics were gorgeous, a wonderful combination of cinematics and rendered scenes. Combined 
 with a great fantasy story line and unique concept of written worlds becoming reality, Myst stands 
 out as an immersive and quality work.
  
  The sound is amazing in Myst. From the ambient bird chirps in forests to the water lapping against 
 the walkways, the sound draws you in. The music is great as well, ethereal and beautiful.
  
  The puzzles are very clever, and not overly difficult, but it does take a lot of time and patience.
 
  
  Myst spawned several sequels, a book series, and collectibles, such as soundtracks and gehn's gun.
 
  
  Myst is a must play! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: globenstein
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 4, 2007 6:40 am PT
Review:  The first game of the great series that are the Myst game is still, in my opinion, the best to 
 date. While its puzzles are certainly not the hardest, its strength lies in the realism it had 
 and still has to offer.
  
  The story is quite interesting as it slowly unfolds through the game's progress. You have to make 
 a tough decision based on what you see, and who you trust. I will not reveal more since the plot 
 adds much to the interest.
  
  The graphics are fabulous for the time they were created. Sure you can find a richer landscape 
 in subsequent Myst games but these were the very first of their kind. No single detail has been 
 left out. Everything is nice and rendered to give you the greatest feeling of realism. The music 
 and sounds fit perfectly to provide the atmosphere of mystery and uncertainty that has become the 
 trademark of the series.
  
  Like I've said before, the puzzles are sometimes difficult, but rarely as challenging as those 
 found in the later mystery games. I suggest, for those who aren't used to this kind of game, to 
 buy the newer version of Myst with hints rather than make use of a guide. This is important if 
 you want to feel the satisfaction of finishing a tough game all by your own.
  
  In short, Myst is a graphical masterpiece still 12 years after its release! I strongly recommend 
 it to anyone who collects revolutionizing games or merely likes to play intricate puzzles in his 
 basement. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingrich06
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 26, 2007 8:24 pm PT
Review:  Even though I dont usually play adventure game, Myst was a different experience. I initially bought 
 the game because of mainly of the hype surround it. The ads were visually stunning; friends and 
 colleagues recommend it as one of the better games they played. Well at least they had it right, 
 most people can enjoy this game and not even be a gaming fanatic. We had a sort of Myst party at 
 my house. The puzzles along with the effects had the whole group getting into act. This is one 
 game where visuals and game play are nicely intertwined along with the music score. Instead of 
 reading a mystery novel, go find this game and play it, youll get just as immersed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: biscuit81
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 21, 2006 9:54 pm PT
Review:  I have ONE problem with this game..... it is too short!!!!! The puzzles are great, the graphics 
 are still great after all these years. It is so easy too understand. If you understand that all 
 squibs are squabs and that most squabs are squirls etc you can do this, definitely. 
  
  What i like most about this MYST game (and all the other MYST's) is that there are constant surprises 
 right the way through. Other games have nothing amazing left beyond ten minutes. We arent stuck 
 with one story line, there is one puzzle after another so MYST never gets boring.
  
  I find it so incredibly amazing that the makers still havent ran out of new ideas for the MYST 
 series. 
  
  When i first saw the hologram skull / rose i was mesmerised by it. Every time i had a visitor i 
 turned the game on to show them. This game was released in 1993 (according to the information on 
 the back cover of the game) so compare the graphics in this game to other games of the time. DOOM 
 2 was out in 1994. I totally understand the makers were going for a particular look but they also 
 were making a game that was using the best technologies available to them at the time. (Dont get 
 me wrong, I love DOOM, i'm on my 3nd run) .
  
  There are a few movies and books in which amazing worlds are created that no one wants to leave 
 when they approach the end. To me MYST is one of those amazing worlds.
  
  Finishing MYST is like losing your wallet, it should never be allowed to happen, the brains behind 
 the game obviously understand that so therefore we have a whole heap of MYST's to keep us busy 
 for quite some time. YEEEEE-HAR!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sandpiper121PP
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 19, 2007 12:46 am PT
Review:  There is no other puzzle game I can think of that even compares to the original Myst in my opinion. 
 It was a revolutionary breakthru for it's time and had the best graphics and sound for the type 
 of game it was. I remember getting it as a gift and it kept me rivited to my computer for over 
 2 weeks. That is how long it took me to complete it but I then again and again have played it over 
 and over because of the beautiful environment and mystery that lures you back! The graphics were 
 by far the best being that they were generated on a Mac and then transfered to the PC. I loved 
 (even though they were still photos with subtle movement of either water or trees) the way you 
 could interact with the environment. The sounds were so real and very relaxing. Along with the 
 great soundtrack and storyline... who wouldn't want to play this game? The puzzles were tough but 
 it was not so tough that you could not do them. You just had to be more of a slueth and view everything 
 around you and not just the puzzle at hand to figure them out. That to me what was made the game 
 a great one. Remembering what you saw where and how it could interact with this thing over there 
 and so on made this game great to play over and over. This along with the storyline that kept you 
 wondering whey things were the way they were and how they were going to turn out kept you rivited 
 to your seat. I have the entire series and still play them to this day. If you have never played 
 them and love puzzle games that have great storylines throughout the entire series... start with 
 the original that took the world by storm. An instant masterpiece that will never get tarnished 
 with time! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bloodnecron
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 16, 2006 8:27 pm PT
Review:  this game is the freakin best!!!!! i could't beat the game but this game is awsome!!!!!!!!! best 
 graphics in 1995, imperesive the sound is good. i can't figure out the part were there is a space 
 shop and..... i don't know what to do. this game would be even more fun if there is people to kill 
 like splinter cell. even without, its a very fungame. my dad bought this game when i was around 
 8 and started playing it. it was fun until when i don't know what to do. mostr game, if i don't 
 figure out how to beat the level or mission, i get angry and stop for maybe couple of days and 
 start again. this game is not for all people but its a fun game still. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rambolito
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 1, 2006 10:07 am PT
Review:  This game was the first game brought on CD-Rom and was sold massively in the nineties. The high 
 detailed graphics were, for that time, astonishing. The pretty static environment is completely 
 controlled with the mouse and requires a good working brain because of all weird puzzles you'll 
 need to solve on your journey.
  After opening a book you fall down into a strange world and you end up on a dock on an island, 
 from here you're on your own. There's no one to talk to, nor is there someone who can give you 
 instructions or directions. You'll need to find out all by yourself where you are, why you are 
 there and what has happened there. Operate different machinery, travel to other worlds, solve puzzles 
 and the main objective, as it seems, collect coloured pages.
  
  By pointing and clicking at the screen on, for instance, the road in front of you, you'll find 
 yourself the next screen halfway that road and now able to see a building at your right, which 
 you can enter by clicking on it's front-door.
  So understand that there is no free roaming as you are probably used to nowadays. The only movement 
 you'll see are the sequences when flipping switches, turning wheels, etc.
  
  The puzzles are mind boggling, they can be pretty hard from time to times. Advice: Keep a notebook 
 next to your keyboard.
  
  Take your time for this one, be patience and don't give up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lightwarrior179
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 11, 2006 1:12 am PT
Review:  Myst was always my favourite game when I actually played its sequel Riven first. I was completely 
 drawn into the PC by Riven. And if Riven, was like that Myst literally trapped me in the PC. I 
 spent hours sitting trying to solve the hundreds of puzzles that the game lays out for us. The 
 story actually develops really well. We are , Catherine whose two sons Sirrus and Achenar are convicted 
 for a murder in the mysterious land of Myst. A murder that one of them didn't commit... Well we 
 have to move around five ages to find particular pages of imaging device (blue of Achenar red of 
 Sirrus.) They continously blame on each other and plead us not to help the other.
  
  But well we have to... Some of the puzzles are seemingly impossible. The graphics is damn good 
 considering the year this game was released. But it is the sound that merges us completely with 
 the gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Horus92
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 1, 2006 1:42 pm PT
Review:  Myst tells the tale of how you, when touching a moving image in a book, are transported... in it! 
 You are now in the island of Myst, in which a great mystery resides... and a strange man called 
 Atrus needs your help.
  
  Gameplay in Myst is simple. It is the typical "click-move" sequence, with the occasional pick up 
 and move sequence.
  
  Graphics are spectacular! You feel you are really there in the island, and the imaginary world 
 are fantastics.
  
  Music fits in pretty well, with amazing music in the suspense parts.
  
  Myst has been aclaimed for many years as the one of the best games in the hisotry of computer-gaming. 
 The storyline is amazing, and you are excited when you find a new book, which will transport you 
 to a newest world to explore.
  
  If you liked Myst, I recommend you play Riven, its sequel, and its other sequels, as Myst III. 
 IV and V. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZeEhEiK
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 30, 2006 3:15 pm PT
Review:  When I first played myst I was 4... So let it be known I had no clue what I was doing, but even 
 at that age I was amused enough to keep at it.
  
  Recently I had an urge to fall down that dark starry fissure once again.
  
  After looking for 
 about half an hour I found the book, the book inscribed with the Art that promised to transport 
 me across space and time to an age of fantastical imagination...
  
  blah blah blah... I installed Myst and in no time I was standing there on that dock that even now, 
 ten years later, I so remember.
  
  Though the graphics are "outdated" now (the engine consisted of a few hundred pictures linked like 
 a slideshow and some archaic quicktime footage) the environments are utterly immersive. For the 
 time I spent wandering the mysterious Myst and its connecting ages I felt completely unattached 
 from reality. That is a good thing.
  
  Additionally the presentation of the story is great. With no knowledge of why you are here, on 
 Myst, you must gather and piece together your own story. You do this through reading the journals 
 of Atrus, the creator of myst. Yes, there is reading involved... But really you could just skip 
 it, as long as you don't mind missing out on the plot. 
  
  Finally what makes this game enduring is the fun and thrilling puzzles that you must solve, along 
 with all the adventure to be had going from age to age! 
  
  Join the legend, defeat the island. Believe me, it's worth it... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mavediss
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 21, 2006 5:23 pm PT
Review:  Myst is one the most innovative games by the time it was launched and in some way it still is. 
 The graphics were amazing for that time, back in 1995, and it was very clever to make it static 
 but highly detailed. The sound was also impressive making you feel like you was really there. But 
 the most impressive feature that make all the concept of Myst was the puzzles and the way you interact 
 with the world of Myst. It was very imaginative and also surprising the sequence of events, what 
 way you should go or what would happen around you after you take any action. Best of all, you realize 
 what the story was about or actions you should take next during the course of the game. A hallmark 
 that everyone should experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: puremage1209
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 24, 2006 7:16 am PT
Review:  The game is an excelent source of entertainment. You run around solving puzzles and cracking codes 
 that offer a challange to the gameplay. You change things around, push buttons in the right order, 
 and many other things. The graphics are amazing, and done down to every last detail. The sound 
 is a nessesity, but does get very anoying. That adds an element to the gameplay that is not very 
 good for the game. It is deffinatly worth its money because it can be picked up for a cheap price. 
 It offers hours of gameplay and it is all worthwhile. To play, you can simply click to move around. 
 It truly deserves to be remembered throught gaming history. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coltfan469
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 15, 2006 6:30 pm PT
Review:  Good:
  
  - Incredible graphics
  - Draws you in and wont let you out for the entire game
  - You get to know the mystery of the 
 island
  - Always something new around every corner
  - Interesting game that makes you think
  
  Bad:
  
  - Can sometimes become boring to the 
 gamer
  - Patience is a major virtue
  - You have to have some brains to play this game
  - Too hard for people under the age of 12
  - Puzzles can sometimes take to long to do
  - Way 
 too addicting
  
  Bottom Line:
  
  - Fun game with lots of mystery, Myst is an amazing game to behold
  - Believe the ratings 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fronttrigger2
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 21, 2006 10:42 am PT
Review:  It has been a while since I've played this game, but I will never forget the experience. I have 
 to admit that I needed some help to finish this game, but it was well worth the frequent headaches.
 
  
  You are thrown into the world of Myst. One of the first things that you will notice about this 
 game is that the game offers no real help in solving the many, many puzzles in this game. There 
 are different things to see and do. There are books to read, notes to take and gadgets to fool 
 with.
  
  There is no one to dialogue with to give you hints on where to go and what to do. The addiction 
 is when you solve the first puzzle, then you're hooked. 
  
  There's really no action in this game. Let me give you one very small hint that someone out there 
 who hasn't played the game might need. When you are hearing the message from one of the brothers, 
 the message is "Bring me the blue pages" or "I need the red pages". The message is very gargled, 
 and I don't remember how many times I had to listen to that message before my friend told me what 
 the man was saying.
  
  From your starting world, you are taken to other worlds with other puzzles. After getting what 
 you need, you will need to get back to the main world, and keep doing it until you begin to solve 
 the mystery of Myst.
  
  Finishing this game is like climbing Mount Everest. 
  
  If you are into action games and dislike solving puzzles, stay far, far away from this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talonfire
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 4, 2006 11:09 am PT
Review:  In 1993 a revolutionary game was released that brought a new genre of adventure games into the 
 gaming market. Rand and Robyn Miller who had founded Cyan years before set out to design memorable 
 worlds that players could immerse themselves in, and boy did they succeed.
  
  In Myst you play as yourself, you have stumbled upon a strange book, and inside there is a moving 
 picture that reveals an island out in the middle of a vast ocean. Curiously you touch the picture 
 and everything goes black. When you come to you find yourself on the dock that was connected to 
 the island in the picture. Now you must learn more of your situation and uncover the mysteries 
 of the seemingly abandoned island.
  
  The gameplay in Myst is fairly simple, but at the same time difficult. In order to progress through 
 the game's unfolding story you must solve puzzles in order to unlock new worlds where you will 
 find more answers. Solving these puzzles can be difficult, but fortunately the controls are simply 
 moving and clicking with your mouse so while the puzzles can be frustrating they can be easily 
 manipulated.
  
  The graphics in Myst were excellent for their time; though they have been surpassed by their sequels 
 and the 3D remake realMyst. Even so in 1993 graphics like those in Myst were unheard of; I remember 
 being in awe of them myself. Every object has been detailed right down to the last screw and wood 
 splinter, and as a result is absolutely amazing to look at. Also Myst features some live action 
 scenes where actual people play out the parts of certain characters. The only actors are the Miller 
 brothers, but they do a very good job.
  
  Myst features very atmospheric and immersive audio. Whether it's the strong wind of Myst island 
 blowing in your ears, or the haunting melody in the planetarium Myst will draw you into its world 
 with its audio just as much as its graphics.
  
  Myst is an adventure game that no one should miss. If you don't like puzzles then it might be best 
 if you give Myst a pass, because you have to have the patience to solve these puzzles to experience 
 all that this wondrous adventure has to offer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkplayer
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 3, 2006 3:46 pm PT
Review:  Myst is a game of exploration, discovery, and puzzle solving. The music heightens this atmosphere 
 and the emptiness of the environment only immerses you more. There are only landscapes to explore 
 and look at, but its still fun and challenging making you continue the tory and discover and explore 
 al of Mysts locations.
  
  You start of by discovering a mysterious book. You get teleported to this land. Of course you don't 
 know what is happening to you until you look around and begin to look at things. There is a beautifully 
 rendered world that you can explore and discover by just using your mind to get by puzzles and 
 challenges. There is nothing in the game that helps you, no NPCs or enemies, theres just some 
 notes, books, devices, etc. which you have to use to progress through the game. Your only goal 
 is to use these things in the proper places to unlock path and continue and explore more areas. 
 
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  You play Myst entirely with the mouse by clicking theres a hand cursor that you use for navigation 
 and it changes with contact of objects in the environment. The puzzles can get very difficult and 
 you have to carefully search your environment for clues, you have to constantly think while you 
 are playing. Most of the puzzles are mechanical and have to be solved carefully. There is a whole 
 number of buttons, knobs, levers, etc. to pull and you have to figure out how to use these machines. 
 
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  Myst is a gorgeous game. At its time of release Myst was the most stunning game ever made, even 
 today where the game was released years ago, it still looks pretty good. In Myst everything is 
 driven from what you see and perceive in the environment so it was crucial for the graphics to 
 be outstanding, and they were breathtaking when this game came out. There is a lot of different 
 areas and landscapes to see and they all are done quite well.
  
  SOUND
  
  It has a nice array of ambient sounds and great variety, the sound in Myst is crucial for the gameplay 
 however. You have to pay close attention to the sounds as they are crucial in the game and can 
 help you advance.
  
  VALUE
  
  You get a huge number of hours of gameplay from Myst this is one of the few games that take a very 
 long time to finish and are an amazing journey throughout. I certainly had a great time playing 
 through the game and the game presents not only a lot of value but also entertainment throughout.
 
  
  CONCLUSION
  
  Myst is easily a classic that will be remembered for a long time because of its inventive gameplay 
 and new approach in adventure games. Myst is highly recommended to anyone who has not played the 
 game yet as it is something that everyone should try. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dasilva90
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 27, 2006 1:22 pm PT
Review:  Story & Dialogs
  Interesting story, not much character interaction.
  
  Puzzle Design
  Puzzles aren't any different from most other adventure games, but brings a new perspective to them.
 
  
  Graphics
  Pre-rendered 3D graphics, looked pretty good for the time, but for todays standards its crappy.
 
  
  Sound
  The music is good, nothing epic or amazing.
  
  Gameplay
  Gameplay is exploration based, does a good job, although at times can feel a bit repetitive.
 
  
  Lasting Appeal
  Like most adventure games, not much room for replayability, but this game is probably worth another 
 run through.
  
  Last Word
  The first of its kind.
  
  8.3/10 - Great 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IceArrow88
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 21, 2006 11:32 pm PT
Review:  Released back in 1995, Myst is a classic game that revolutionized the gaming industry. Rand and 
 Robyn Miller created a new type of game which diverted from the typical mass market and took off 
 into a fascinating and innovative direction. Its hailed as a landmark in the industry and praised 
 for both its aesthetics and story.
  
  I think that Myst is best described as an experience rather than merely a video game. Its creators 
 strived to develop a world rich with detail and intrigue, with a subtle narrative intertwined into 
 the strange yet beautiful surroundings. As the game begins, you are dropped onto the island of 
 Myst without very much information to guide you. What immediately strikes you as unique about this 
 experience is that there are no friendly characters to help you on your way, no enemies to fight, 
 and not a very clear purpose. The game is largely about just exploring your surroundings and experimenting 
 with different devices around the various worlds. This is what makes the game so immersive. The 
 graphics of Myst, though not quite as extravagant as todays, were definitely of high quality. 
 Cyan built its 3D world through an extensive layout of still images and QuickTime movies, and the 
 end result is simply amazing. Navigation is node-based, meaning that you dont necessarily walk 
 through the environment but rather point and click your way through your surroundings. Each new 
 section loads as if you really had relocated, giving the appearance of movement. Making a 3D world 
 in this manner might seem strange, but at the time it was a necessary shortcut to make it possible 
 to run the game on computers without a lot of RAM and processor power. Even by todays standards, 
 I still think the environments look impressive.
  
  So what exactly does the gameplay entail? As you explore the island, you discover two journals 
 with missing pages, each of which belong to Atruss sons, Sirrus and Achenar. Your main objective 
 is to travel through the different worlds, or Ages, and retrieve the missing pages from each book. 
 As you recover each page, you learn more about each brother, and you must try to discover who is 
 lying and who is telling the truth. In the end, it will be up to you to decide their respective 
 fates. Your journey is not easy, for you will have to solve rather challenging puzzles in order 
 to progress throughout the worlds. This can often be frustrating, for the puzzles solutions are 
 not always intuitive. It will take much patience and observation, and perhaps even a little help.
 
  
  The sounds in this game are mysterious and enchanting. The soundtrack consists of strange, sometimes 
 haunting tunes that blend in remarkably well with each respective area. Moreover, the sounds are 
 integral to the gameplay, for some of the puzzles involve listening in addition to seeing. You 
 will need to observe and interpret different sounds and apply that information to the challenges 
 you face. This is yet another way in which you can truly become immersed within the game. The music 
 makes your surroundings feel foreign and believable.
  
  Myst was groundbreaking for its time, and it started an incredible journey that would spark several 
 sequels. Its an experience that is visually, musically, and intellectually stimulating, and though 
 the game is a bit dated now, I still think its worth playing if you enjoy a good challenge. As 
 many have mentioned, the ending is somewhat anticlimactic, but at the same time it will most likely 
 make you want to continue the adventure with Riven. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brendandick
Rating: 6.8
Date: Dec 22, 2005 12:25 am PT
Review:  Back in the day I played Myst, I can't remember much but I'll give you my honest opinion
  
  Myst, is a very interesting game and with stunning graphics for it's time and now standards. The 
 run down is a very strange, adventure game with a strange sort of innovation. I really probably 
 would have enjoyed this game if I had not played it on my uncles laptop and had a way longer attention 
 span than I did back then.
  
  The graphics in Myst are generally breath taking, and give you a sort of feel of a baron world, 
 with no real other life forms but you. The great feel of a real world back then was very hard to 
 achieve, but Cyan Worlds managed to pull it off with very few flaws, besides an overall boring 
 gameplay.
  
  The gameplay is very simple, but effective. You move around a vast world and through many mazes, 
 puzzles and challenging problems. The view of moving around the worlds is great and pulls you in, 
 sometimes making you forget your sitting at home, not in the actual virtual world it puts you in. 
 The very many complaints is the chessy ending.
  
  Overall Myst is a very average game and should be check out by people with patience 
::::::

::::::
UserName: s3ank1ms
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 24, 2005 10:59 am PT
Review:  myst is a interesting adventure geme that everyone should try, but not that everyone will like. 
 the game is based on puzzles to unlock atrus (main character) sons sirrius and achener. (spoiler 
 alert) in the game u travel to diffferent worlds called Ages you travel to these Ages to find a 
 red and a blue page to free both of his sons, eventually at the end you find out at the end that 
 atruses sons are destroying the worlds that he had created.
  
  now for the review my is a game that as to do with lots of patients and pure logic puzzles if ur 
 one of those people who like shooting games dont even try this. is your the types that like to 
 have played many game with puzzles of somesort you sould at least give this game a try. buying 
 this game is really cheap so you can try to for yourself sithout spending so much money 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alvarinho
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 21, 2005 4:57 pm PT
Review:  It was the first of his type and still is one of the best. It sold millions and unfortunately for 
 the adventure genre it was one of a kind. Everything you heard of this game is true - the story, 
 the graphics, the sound, the simple interface - and yet you wonder how can a game with so few characters 
 (youll see only 3 in action) can have such a great story, but still it is true, by reading books 
 and the little interaction youll have with the characters. youll be able to get immersed in a 
 great setting thats only been matched by Mysts own sequels. At bargain price you shouldnt miss 
 this one, although with a warning for the casual adventure gamer, specially if youre a Lucas Arts 
 games fan, this game is quite different from Monkey Island - youll need a pen and paper for starters, 
 unless you have photo memory - and if you have a strict idea of what a adventure game is, this 
 game is not for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flinx1000
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 11, 2005 5:04 pm PT
Review:  It's been a while since I finished this game, and it did take several tries before I got in the 
 "zone" and was able to navigate through all the different worlds successfully.
  Including a book to take notes in was definitely a good idea, and one which I used extensively.
 
  Graphics are intense and gorgeously done, but I was a bit put off by the size of the gameplay 
 window.
  Ambient and direct sounds were also very well done, and I can best describe them as hauntingly 
 beautiful.
  Gameplay consists of solving riddles to open gates between worlds, with occasional interaction 
 with several characters who try to convince you that their interests are more important than the 
 others. The riddles are ingenious and well thought out, in all cases requiring a multiple set of 
 lesser riddles to be completed before moving on to the next level, where another set of riddles 
 awaits.
  All in all, a thoroughly enjoyable playing experience that, unlike most games out there today, 
 tests your ability to think, instead of your ability to push the left mouse button as fast as you 
 can. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilsharkhunter
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 11, 2004 9:23 pm PT
Review:  Myst, released back in 1995, was a very groundbreaking game for having realistic environments and 
 using your mind to solve puzzles and uncover MYSTeries.
  
  This game is about some random character (you) who happens to fall on the island of MYST. You find 
 two books, red and blue, and that have some sort of video feed in it. It seems that two brothers 
 have been trapped inside each of the books, and you need to find all the pages of the books by 
 going through the "ages of myst" to free them. While finding the pages for these trapped brothers, 
 you uncover clues about what they have done to the island, and why they are trapped in the first 
 place.
  
  I played this game about a year ago and I'm writing this review while taking in account of when 
 it was released.
  
  Gameplay 8 - This game is H. A. R. D. Very challenging to even the brightest minds in gaming, or the 
 world. Puzzles make absolutely NO SENSE whatsoever. They have very vague clues on what to do, but 
 it tends to make a little sense when you finally figure it out. Without a guide or hints, this 
 game will take you a long time to beat. Gameplay is very interesting, but very challenging and 
 you will often be stuck at points thay will make you want to stop playing.
  
  Graphics 9 - OK so the graphics aren't good now but they were back then, and they're not bad either. 
 They look pretty believable, and work well with the game. Not much to be said here.
  
  Sound 9 - Sound is good. Very eerie and spooky to give you that "what went on here?" feeling. You 
 find yourself uncovering clues about the past of the island, and what the brothers have done on 
 it. The sound fits very well.
  
  Value 9 - This game is hard. It's pretty lengthy as well, so you'll be playing this for a while. 
 But after you're done, you probably wont be playing it again, unless you want to live the experience 
 another time.
  
  Tilt 9 - Even after 9 years of its release, it remains to be sold well. I liked this game, and 
 it is one of my favorites. If you complete this game, you'll have a hard time forgetting it in 
 the future.
  
  Pros - Well made game, it's challenging and spooky. Graphics are pretty good, and this game will 
 have a story that I doubt you'll ever forget.
  
  Cons - HARD. And you won't find a reason to play this game after you've beaten it.
  
  Play 
 this game, it's an oldie but goody! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SkyWarrior
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 31, 2004 9:40 pm PT
Review:  Very rarely is there a game that revolutionizes its industry. Myst, when it was released, was the 
 game that had everyone buying CD drives for their computers, and it was for good reason. Myst manages 
 to combine graphics, sound, and gameplay into one of the greatest games to ever appear on a computer 
 screen. 
  
  The storys beginning gives foreshadow to what is to come. You find a book called Myst, and upon 
 finishing the book, you lay your hand on the page. As soon as you do, you are transported away, 
 to a mysterious island.
  
  Mysts gameplay starts when you arrive here. You start walking around the island searching for 
 clues. Very soon into the game, you come upon two books that contain imprisoned brothers. Their 
 names are Sirrus and Achenar, and they ask you to free them from their prisons. From then on you 
 will gather information on the island, and unlock different linking books to try to get the brothers 
 out of their prisons. Needless to say, some of the details are quite hard to find and put together 
 correctly, but the game does not get old because of the way it draws you in, and the fact that 
 the mouse controls are very intuitive. You will want to solve the puzzles you come across, just 
 so you can see what is next. In fact there are very few places where you will get annoyed with 
 the puzzles, but a certain underground maze does tend to get really annoying.
  
  Mysts graphics were some of the best released at the time. Even though we can see great flaws 
 in them today, you must remember this game is more than a decade old. Even today, some of the areas 
 do still look incredible, thanks to the great detail and care Cyan put into the game. The island 
 views that you see every time you use a linking book are incredible for their age.
  
  Mysts sound is also quite good. This is needed however, since a portion of the games puzzles become 
 very hard, or impossible, if you do not use your ears. Most of the sound effects add to the games 
 atmosphere, and few will grate on your nerves, even after playing for hours.
  
  Myst is the game that revolutionized computer gaming. Not only that, but it introduced new ideas 
 in ways that would have never been possible. If Myst accomplishes one thing above all however, 
 it is that even after of these years it is still able to draw the gamer into its world in a way 
 that few games have ever been able to do, even after all these years since its release. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hunk4thSurvivor
Rating: 5.3
Date: Jan 27, 2004 11:43 pm PT
Review:  Myst was one of the 1st, if not the 1st game of its kind. Walking around strane places and solving 
 puzzles. Although I didnt give it a good score it was still a not too bad game. The puzzles were 
 interresting the environtments were pretty and the graphics were pretty good. Although this game 
 didn't come out that great as most people think it did.
  
  GAMEPLAY: The gameplay is DULL, It gets a little repetetive at times and the puzzles can be pretty 
 boring if you dont have patients.
  
  GRAPHICS: GOOD, The graphics are probobly the most promising part about this game and as I said 
 earlier that the environments are pretty.
  
  SOUND: GOOD, The sound of the wind, Trees blowing, Bird chirping. Want to relax? Play this game.
 
  
  VALUE: POOR, No really good replay value and can get very boring pretty quickly. Give it a shot 
 at least.
  
  TILT: MEDIOCRE, Overally its just a boring game that can be given a chance. Its pretty cheap now 
 and hard to find and if you want to waste a bit of time and just feel like an exploring type game 
 with some interresting puzzles? This may be the game for you to try out.
  
  I would give it a 5.4/10 MEDIOCRE
  
  -Justin 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zsciaeount
Rating: 3
Date: Sep 7, 2003 8:10 am PT
Review:  Myst is the game that killed the adventure genre, and for that, I can never forgive it. In the 
 early days of Windows and CD-ROM, a homebrew game was launched that altered the face of gaming 
 for good. Myst wowed people with incredibly detailed graphics, and took adventuring into the first-person. 
 The game sold millions, and sold millions of CD-ROM drives, just like 7th Guest before it. Myst 
 became the most successful computer game of all time. Pretty soon, everyone was playing adventures, 
 and Myst clones cropped up in batches each week.
  
  And that was the end of adventure gaming. Pretty soon, adventure games became not concerned with 
 characters or with interaction, but with exploration of pretty landscapes.
  
  Graphically, Myst was a huge leap forward. People wondering if their SVGA cards were ever going 
 to be good for anything more than Links golf games were treated with the finest graphics ever seen 
 on the screen at the time. Myst proved that it was possible to create photorealistic renderings 
 of distant worlds. In this respect, Myst was a triumph.
  
  But, what Myst had in technical wonder, it lacked in gameplay. Essentially, Myst was a slideshow, 
 with little narrative, and very little interaction with anything besides machines and levers. Instead 
 of offering story or interaction, the point was that you were to figure out what to do in this 
 silent world by trial-and-error. People saw this as a strong point, but when you get down to it, 
 it basically freed designers from having to craft a narrative.
  
  But wait, you say, Myst had a story. True, but it came in the form of what would become one of 
 the most annoying features of modern adventures: the story was laid out in books. Volumes and volumes 
 of text... Why create characters or dialogue, when you can hammer out all the details in a book? 
 It was a horrible standard that unfortunately was emulated too many times.
  
  In the end, Myst was not a great game, but Joe Public didn't seem to know. And so the adventure 
 game was transformed, and Myst-style gameplay became synonymous with adventure. But, once the fascination 
 with graphics eroded, people realized that there wasn't much to modern adventures, and the genre 
 was all but abandoned.
  
  I give this low score for two reasons: The first and the most valid is that Myst is a terrible 
 adventure game. Secondly, each category gets a one-point deduction for this game killing the adventure 
 genre. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
