-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Myst V: End of Ages
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/mystvendofages/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Beautiful visuals can be freely explored in full 3D.
 Complex puzzles challenge your deductive reasoning and pattern-recognition skills.
 Interesting storyline gradually unravels and serves to keep you going.
 Several viable controls suit Myst's faithful, as well as new players.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Not as immersive as it could have been, due to limited interactivity with the environment.
 A couple of the ages you'll explore feel too similar.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 20, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.9
Critic Score: 7.9, 29 Review (s)
User Score: 8.2, 744 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: Cyan Worlds
Genre: Adventure
Date:     Sep 19, 2005 &raquo;  
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Myst V concludes this landmark series with dignity and style, delivering a challenging and sophisticated 
 adventure that contains a number of satisfying moments. 

  It's been more than 10 years since Myst revolutionized adventure gaming with its beautiful, surrealistic 
 scenery, its elegantly simple point-and-click interface, and its mind-bending logic puzzles. And 
 now the series is officially concluding with Myst V: End of Ages, a game that stays true to its 
 roots, such as by having a remarkable audiovisual presentation. Last year's Myst IV: Revelation 
 was created by Ubisoft Montreal, which did an excellent job of following in the footsteps of Myst's 
 original developer, Cyan Worlds, who returned to the helm for this final chapter. Ironically, then, 
 Myst V omits a few of the key presentational features that made last year's game so captivating, 
 and its fully 3D graphics aren't necessarily a superior alternative to the prerendered scenes of 
 most previous Myst installments. Regardless of that, Myst V concludes this landmark series with 
 dignity and style, delivering a challenging and sophisticated adventure that contains a number 
 of satisfying moments.  

          A difficult but captivating journey awaits in Myst V, which invites you to tour the ages 
 of the D'ni one last time.     

  Myst V doesn't expect you to have previous experience with the series, and as its story unfolds, 
 there's a fair bit of summary about what transpired in previous installments. In addition to seeing 
 some strange creatures darting around in the darkness, you'll encounter two characters early on 
 in your adventure: a tormented woman named Yeesha, and an enigmatic man named Esher. Yeesha's diaries 
 are scattered throughout the game, cryptically explaining the predicament you're all wrapped up 
 in. Meanwhile, Esher will often appear (and disappear) out of thin air, telling you about the place 
 you're in and offering veiled clues on how to proceed.  

  Esher looks and moves like a real person, but it's the voice work by David Ogden Stiers that brings 
 this interesting character to life. It's clear early on that Esher and Yeesha are not fond of one 
 another, though neither character's motives are apparent. As such, what eventually transpires feels 
 like a bit of a letdown, since the subtlety of these two characters completely breaks down and 
 their agendas and personalities become obvious. This happens with all the unpleasant abruptness 
 of turning on bright, fluorescent lights in a dark room. Nevertheless, Myst V mostly does a good 
 job of thinly layering tantalizing bits of storyline as you make progress, compelling you to discover 
 what's really going on.  

  As in previous Myst games, you view the world of Myst V from a first-person perspective and may 
 play through the entire game using just the mouse, which lets you easily navigate the assorted 
 landscapes. There's no danger to battle -- just places to explore and mysteries to solve. By default, 
 Myst V plays like older Myst games by limiting your movement from node to node -- you can only travel 
 from one specific point to another. However, you have the option to switch to an "advanced" control 
 scheme that lets you move freely throughout the environment, using mouse-and-keyboard controls 
 that have long become standard in first-person-perspective games. A third variant is also present, 
 combining node-based movement with the ability to freely look around just by moving the mouse. 

  The advanced control scheme is probably the best, since it lets you quickly get around without 
 having to scan each node for other points you could move to. However, the advantage of node-based 
 movement is that the game will make sure you're standing in the right position to solve various 
 puzzles. If left to wander around on your own, you might have more trouble figuring out exactly 
 where you're supposed to go.  

          Several different control methods allow you to explore Myst V's fully 3D environments any 
 way you prefer.     

  Presumably these three different control schemes are there so that players can find one that really 
 suits them, which will help them get immersed in Myst V's visually striking world. Yet much like 
 how it's possible to fruitlessly pursue a false lead while trying to solve one of Myst V's difficult 
 puzzles, it seems the developers of Myst V implemented these options at the expense of certain 
 subtle details that might have made for a more enthralling experience. The absence of these details 
 is especially noticeable since they helped make Myst IV's world feel so alive. Unlike in that game, 
 here you won't be able to interact with any objects except for ones that are somehow important. 
 So even though you'll be seeing all kinds of wonderful contraptions and architecture, it's all 
 window dressing, since the only stuff you can use tends to be tied to the game's puzzles. You also 
 can't hear your character's footsteps, so all the unusual textures you'll be walking (floating?) 
 over make no sound. Myst V is certainly pretty to look at, but it doesn't wholly succeed at making 
 you feel like you're really there in its imaginative worlds.     

  Fortunately, Myst V does succeed at presenting you with some difficult, interesting puzzles. Pattern 
 recognition and keen observation of subtle cause and effect will help you overcome the environmental 
 challenges impeding your progress. Your journey through Myst V will primarily take you through 
 four different worlds, or "ages," and the goal in each one is to find a special object whose power 
 can only be harnessed once it's found in all four ages. In each age, you'll find a slate -- a mystical 
 stone tablet, which you may pick up and carry around and also inscribe with special symbols. The 
 slates are a new addition to the traditional point-and-click gameplay, and they introduce a pleasant 
 twist to the series' formula, yet without unnecessarily complicating the deliberately simple mechanics. 
 Basically, the slates are used to communicate with those weird creatures you see early on, called 
 the bahro. The bahro may teleport, or "link," at a moment's notice, and if you drop a slate on 
 the ground, one of them will show up and return it to its pedestal.  

          A strange man named Esher and a stranger race of creatures called the bahro help liven 
 up Myst V's desolate settings.     

  You can draw on a slate using the mouse, and in each age, you'll need to discover and draw certain 
 symbols that the bahro understand. Some of these may cause different environmental effects to occur 
 (such as a rain shower or a wind storm) , and you'll need to discover how these can be used to your 
 advantage. The environmental effects last for a limited amount of time, adding a sense of urgency 
 to some of Myst V's puzzles, though the only consequence for running out of time tends to be just 
 having to try again. You'll also need to use slates to link to other parts of each age. As you 
 discover more about the slate in each age, you also gain the ability to move more freely throughout 
 the age by linking between key points, so there's a liberating feeling as you unlock the secrets 
 of the places you explore.  

  As you make progress through Myst V, eventually you're given the freedom to investigate the remaining 
 ages in whichever order you wish. This helps give you some options should you get stuck and start 
 feeling frustrated. Because the game consists of a variety of different ages, there's a certain 
 thrill in discovering what sort of place you'll set foot in next. One of the ages is particularly 
 breathtaking, while a couple of the others look a little too similar. Overall, the game makes good 
 on one of the core appeals of the Myst series, which is to take you to places that look like they 
 could be real, but simply do not exist in nature... not as far as we know, anyway.  

  Myst V's fully 3D visuals are impressive for the most part, though you'll need a high-end system 
 to appreciate them looking their best. On slower machines, the game runs quite choppily, which 
 can be distracting but fortunately isn't detrimental to gameplay. The few characters are also fully 
 3D, and the human ones are motion-captured and made to look photo-realistic. At times, this technique 
 makes them look a little odd, while at other times the results are fantastic and the characters 
 really do look -- and act -- real. As for the audio in Myst V, it's about as minimal as you'd probably 
 expect, mostly consisting of ambient noises that help bring the various ages to life. There's not 
 much music, but what's there fits the theme well and sets the proper tone for the different ages. 
 Again, though, footstep sounds are noticeably absent, and fans of the previous Myst game will also 
 miss how that game let them tap on every object in the environment to get a feel for its mass and 
 texture.  

          Farewell, Myst. You'll be missed.     

  The conclusion of Myst V isn't as dramatic or as apocalyptic as you might expect from a game that's 
 billed as the very last installment in the series. In fact, if not for this billing, you probably 
 wouldn't come away from Myst V thinking that this was the end. But assuming this really is it, 
 Myst V: End of Ages is a fittingly dignified ending to a series of games that ushered in a new 
 era for a genre that once ruled the PC. Today, adventure games are not as prevalent as they were 
 when Myst first appeared more than 10 years ago. So it seems appropriate that Myst V comes across 
 as reverent of its origin to the point of restraint, as if the game didn't dare try to supersede 
 the standards of its predecessors.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (25 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Fade2gray
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 14, 2009 6:46 pm PT
Review:  Like many people my age, my earliest memories of computer gaming are marked by some of the greatest 
 adventure games to have ever been written. I remember vividly the long weekends spent at my father's 
 house sitting in front of his Mac trying in vain to puzzle my way through classics like Day of 
 The Tentacle, Indiana Jones and the Fate of Atlantis, Sam and Max Hit the Road, and, of course, 
 Myst. Years later when I returned to my computer gaming roots after a prolonged love affair with 
 consoles the first thing I thought of were those old adventure games I had never managed to crack. 
 Even with my greater maturity I still found them to be trying of my patience and changeling for 
 my intellect. That may not sound appealing to most, but it's only in true challenge that you can 
 ever find the reward of satisfaction. The first time I found myself sitting in front of my computer 
 screen holding a page covered in notes, front and back, as I watched the Myst credits role past 
 I knew I was hooked on the genre for life.
  
  What does ANY of that have to do with Myst V? For me, everything. Myst V is the closing chapter 
 in a series that has defined the adventure genre since the first game was released in '93. It is 
 a game that is meant to give closure to one of the most prestigious franchises in gaming. And yet, 
 it fails to even live up to its predecessors.
  
  One of the most striking and readily apparent differences that sets Myst V apart from the other 
 games in the series is its use of full, real time 3D graphics. Even the characters are 3D models 
 rather than live actors, as the previous games had used. I admit that I found this approach initially 
 off setting. I thought it was an odd choice to so radically alter the fundamental aesthetic of 
 a series in its final installment. I had enjoyed Uru though, and was ready to give this game a 
 chance as well. Sadly, the graphics of this game didn't fair as well as in Uru. The world looked 
 somehow less impressive. Many textures, even on the highest settings, looked bland. This wasn't 
 universal, a few areas actually looked very nice, but such places were the exception rather than 
 the rule. The worst part were the characters. The textures on their faces where a bit muddy, their 
 eyes often looking in strange directions, but their body animations were very well done... perhaps 
 too well done. The combination created a strange effect similar to the uncanny valley that left 
 me feeling uncomfortable every time one of the two main characters appeared, which they did with 
 astonishing frequency. Which leads me to my next point...
  
  In every previous Myst game, you typically could count the number of encounters you had with other 
 characters on one hand, maybe two. In Myst V you'd run out of fingers and toes almost within the 
 first hour of play. This wouldn't be so bad, uncanny valley aside, had each encounter not been 
 unskippable and full of stilted pauses during each monologue, characteristic to the series. The 
 interruptions quickly became tiresome, and I began to get the feeling that the game was trying 
 to lead me by the hand, constantly giving me hints and feedback to let me know I was going in the 
 right direction. All of this utterly destroyed any sense of being a lone adventurer left to puzzle 
 together the forgotten pieces of every riddle strew across the ages for yourself.
  
  The story is also a big shortcoming for Myst V. When you begin you find Yeesha, the daughter of 
 Atrus who is usually at the center of most Myst stories, trying to retrieve a tablet that holds 
 incredible power. She is unable to complete this task and sends you in her stead. Soon another 
 man appears and warns you about Yeesha's motives. He acts as your guide throughout the rest of 
 the game, but this just creates more confusion. He clearly seems to know the answers to every challenge 
 and has a vested interest in seeing you through successfully, so why doesn't he just GIVE YOU THE 
 ANSWERS!? Sorry, a little pent up frustration. There are three endings, but two of them don't even 
 let you know that the game is over, instead just leaving you to wonder aimlessly until you realize 
 there is nothing left to do. The correct ending, you know it's correct because it gives you the 
 end credits, is a bit bland relying on trumping up emotions the games seems think it's instilled 
 in you, but probably hasn't. There is no grand challenge to attain this ending over the other. 
 The answer to the last puzzle is absurdly simple once you realize what to do. So simple, in fact, 
 that you could very easily stumble upon it completely by accident The entire thing isn't very satisfying 
 and doesn't tie in to the previous games very much, introducing an entire race of creatures who's 
 existence seems to be key to the entire history of D'ni, but have never made any appearance whatsoever 
 in previous games. Perhaps if I'd read the books or played the short lived MMO I would have cared 
 more.
  
  ALL of this would easily have been forgivable had Myst V gotten the two key ingredients that define 
 every Myst game, and frankly the entire adventure genre, right; its puzzles and exploration. This 
 is where Myst V earns its score of five and a half, and no more. There are four 'adventure' ages 
 to explore in Myst V plus a temple that you're told leads into the lost city of D'ni (which you 
 never actually get to visit) . Each of the four ages is incredibly short. Most only have one major 
 puzzle with a few smaller ones on the side to help solve the larger one. None are especially challenging 
 when compared to the previous installments' puzzles. There is very little 'connect the dots' style 
 logic to be had hear. Almost no learning of new systems of logic or numerical systems is required 
 at all. You probably won't find yourself looking at subtle hints and clues in the environment or 
 strange images in discarded journals trying to figure out how its all related. The very few times 
 anything like that happens it's so clearly spelled out as to be almost laughable. Most puzzles 
 are as simple as flipping a few switches in the right order or spotting the out of the way place 
 where the answer is clearly written. Trial and error seems to be king in Myst V as most puzzles, 
 even those that might require some basic math skills, are easily solved just by making a handful 
 of educated guesses. The game introduces a new game play mechanic involving drawing symbols on 
 slates. The mechanic is rather buggy, often not recognizing the symbols you draw or, worse, confusing 
 them for other symbols. In one age, half of the time I drew a symbol it mistook it for the final 
 symbol of the age, hurtling me to the age's end prematurely. The mechanic isn't really ever used 
 to much effect either. Most situations where it should be used are clearly marked by the fact that 
 you just learned the symbol you need moments before encountering the scenario. Each age only has 
 one 'power' symbol that works within it, so your options are rather limited anyways.
  
  Myst V: End of Ages, is a sad farewell to the franchise in many ways. It never really manages to 
 capture the magic that made the rest of the series so wonderful. The only real solace to be had 
 here is the realization that perhaps Myst V itself is a sign that the series ended when it needed 
 to, frail and a shadow of what it once was, much like an old and dying Atrus at the end of his 
 days. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Asagea_888
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 6, 2008 8:53 pm PT
Review:  Boy, the Myst phenomenon was huge back when adventure games and high-powered PCs were the rage. 
 It was the first game to actually rival a Hollywood movie blockbuster in terms of sales. I knew 
 about Myst, but didn't actually experience it for myself until I got the Sega Saturn port. And 
 I've loved it ever since then.
  
  End of Ages is the fifth and final game in the series and, after having racked my brain from Exile 
 and Revelations, it's nice to see the game returning to its original developers. The puzzles have 
 been scaled back a tad, but not so much as to make them ridiculously easy. But they aren't insanely 
 difficult either. 
  
  Even though this is the final game, it's a Myst with a lot of firsts. The game is full-on 3D; no 
 prerendered images or full-motion video of actors. It's been done before with RealMyst and Uru, 
 but never with a new entry in the core Myst series. I like how you can choose between three control 
 schemes: the classic point and click that's been used with every Myst game to date, the Classic 
 Plus which is an update of that system utilizing the 360 look mode first used in Exile, and Free 
 Mode that enables the player to use FPS-like controls to go anywhere they please.
  
  Immersive puzzle solving has always been at the core of the Myst mythos; the inclusion of the Slate 
 in which to communicate with strange creatures called Bahro is such a neat idea. Basically, you 
 draw symbols on the slate, which are interpreted as commands for the Bahro, and leave it in specific 
 areas of the world. The Bahro will recognize the command and perform it at your request, thereby 
 helping you solve strange puzzles or get past tricky obstacles. Only downside of having the Slate? 
 You can't climb ladders with it, so it leaves you with a precarious burden that you yourself have 
 to rack your brain to overcome. There will be a lot of situations when you have to get to a specific 
 area where the Slate is needed the most; only to realize that you will need to leave the Slate 
 behind in order to climb the one ladder that will get you up there. Don't worry.... if one is persistent, 
 willing to experiment and put up with a lot of trial and error, one will undoubtedly solve the 
 situation.
  
  No actors this time around, unfortunately. However, the developers came up with an interesting 
 bit of technology to map actor's faces and expressions in three-dimensional models. The results 
 are quite astounding -- if a little odd at times. But you can appreciate the effort Cyan put into 
 it.
  
  The story is a little sad, but presents you with opportunities to change it at the very end of 
 the game. I will not give away the ending; only to tell you that you're faced with a decision that 
 will ultimately determine the ending of not just this game in particular, but the entire Myst saga. 
 No pressure.
  
  Adventure games were huge in the early 90s. Today, they're on collective life-support. But dig 
 through the FPSes, RPGs and MMOs and you'll find a great adventure game that may still pull your 
 interest. For fans of the Myst games (myself included) , the final chapter of this beloved franchise 
 will undoubtedly provide you with the familiar air of exploration, puzzle-solving and, when it's 
 all over.... gratification. 
  
  Or regret. That choice is yours.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jazzycmk
Rating: 6.2
Date: Apr 29, 2007 10:37 pm PT
Review:  Myst is an old friend. It had wonderful worlds you enjoyed visiting with each new installment. 
 Each game in the series had its own memorable puzzles and environments. Myst V, while having its 
 moments, just feels underwhelming, particularly if it truly is the last game in the series.
  
  Myst V departs from the traditional Myst formula in many ways. For starters, Atrus, the common 
 thread through all the Myst games is not really the focal point of the story. His daughter, Yeesha, 
 who first appeared in Myst III as a baby, and then played a prominent role in Myst IV has now grabbed 
 top billing in the family. The story is not as dramatic as the title End of Ages would have you 
 think. Frankly, it introduces a lot of new elements not present in the earlier Myst games, but 
 doesn't really provide a lot of backstory. Bits and pieces do get filled in as you play, but when 
 you reach the end of the game (and there are at least 3 endings that I found) , you may be asking 
 yourself, What was that all about? . Myst IV told a much better story, and tied up a lot of loose 
 elements of Atrus' family (particularly the fate of Atrus' two sons that had featured so importantly 
 in the original Myst game, but had been absent in the next two installments) .
  
  Essentially, Yeesha sends you on a quest to four new ages. You must collect four slates to form 
 a powerful tablet. You'll be guided in your quest by a mysterious member of the Dni' civilization 
 named Esher who seems to be at odds with Yeesha. Esher will provide nudges in the right direction 
 on the ages. Throughout the ages you'll also encounter strange creatures called the bahro that 
 possess powerful abilities you will need to harness.
  
  The presentation differs sharply from previous games in the series. Myst has always used a mix 
 of live actors surrounded by computer animated environments. At times this was cheesy, and the 
 acting was mixed (good - Brad Dourif in Myst III, bad - the guy who played Sirrus in Myst IV) , 
 however, it was still a staple of the series and something players were used to seeing. Myst V, 
 however, uses all computer animation. The computer animated characters are fine, but somehow it 
 just feels wrong..... like you're not playing a Myst game.
  
  Also, some of the great enhancements introduced by Myst IV do not recur in Myst V. First, there 
 was the much more interactive hand icon in Myst IV that resembled a real human hand and was much 
 more lifelike in the way it pointed and moved. I will admit, in the beginning, this icon was disconcerting 
 in Myst IV as it looked like the disembodied hand from the Addams Family, but was a very cool effect 
 once you got used to it. Secondly, the environment in Myst IV was much more interactive. You could 
 use the hand icon the tap on anything in the environment and it would make realistic noises (a 
 ping on glass, a thud on wood, etc.) . Those are both gone in Myst V, replaced with the static hand 
 icon from the first three games, and much less interaction. The absence of both detracts from the 
 immersion that is so important in a Myst game, or adventure games in general for that matter.
 
  
  The graphics in the game are very good, with some truly spectacular views, particularly on the 
 space / astrological world of Todelmer. But graphics and comparison to the presentation and storylines 
 of previous Myst games aside, any Myst game truly has to be judged by its puzzles. Unfortunately, 
 I think Myst V falls a bit short here as well. I was able to solve Myst V without the use of a 
 walkthrough (something I was also able to do in Myst III, while I needed occasional hints on the 
 other three games in the series) . But somehow, I didn't feel the same sense of accomplishment in 
 this game that I did after completing Myst III - Exile. A number of the puzzles aren't truly puzzles 
 to my way of thinking. They are much more studies in trial and error. Keep pushing buttons, pulling 
 levers, etc., and see what happens. Now this does take some skill in recognizing cause and effect, 
 but it also takes away that wonderful ah ha moment a gamer has when he / she realizes the proper 
 solution to a challenge. Discovering it at random just doesn't give the same victorious rush.
 
  
  Myst V's major new innovation revolves around the use of tablets. You can draw simple symbols on 
 these tablets and drop them. This will summon the bahro who will then react to the symbols, if 
 they recognize them. While this was a new twist, and did admittedly provide some of the cooler 
 moments in the game, it also made for a lot of random gameplay which had the player scratching 
 any symbol you encounter on the tablet (and you'll see a lot of them during the game) . I solved 
 two of the ages very quickly. So quickly, in fact, that I was suspicious. After finishing the game 
 I read Gamespot's walkthough and discovered that I had bypassed huge chunks of these ages simply 
 because I had gotten stuck and started doodling some symbols on the slate. In these two cases, 
 either because I was lucky, or my drawing was so sloppy that the bahro misinterpreted it, my random 
 use of symbols led me directly to the end of the Age. I don't know if this was a glitch or a bug 
 or otherwise, but beating the game feels a little empty now.
  
  Fans of the Myst series will appreciate the various nods to the previous games. You'll find a series 
 of journals that Yeesha has written that tell bits of what transpired in those games. You'll even 
 have the opportunity to return to Myst island and wax nostalgic by seeing the old island using 
 the updated graphics engine.
  
  Adventure games are certainly not one of the more popular genres in gaming (although they do offer 
 a great, deliberate change of pace from all the shooters out there) , and I can't see many people 
 outside of players from previous Myst games picking up this title. For those players, I think they 
 will find a lot to enjoy in Myst V as it is still a solid offering. For fans of the series, however, 
 I think this was a disappointing ending. Myst went out with much more of a wimper than a bang. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gore128
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 7, 2007 6:52 pm PT
Review:  What can I say about this game? I enjoyed it. But I only had one problem as I was playing I keep 
 thinking boy it would really be great if I had my avatar back from the URU games . This game keeps 
 to the story line and gave it a good ending. But what endding will you get?? there are few diffent 
 enddings and that always makes it fun. :) I loved the invoments and the sounds of the local animals. 
 :) Of corse the puzzles are always fun. :) Like I said if you are a myst fan you have to play it. 
 :) :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Calist0
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 2, 2007 1:22 am PT
Review:  My bad luck is that i have dyscovered this game far too late , anyway i have purchased the whole 
 saga but i can not play the first two releases on Xp. and what's the deal with URU-Ages Beyond 
 Myst ? Dose it have to do anything with the Myst saga? and if it does with what i am supposed to 
 begin with , logically with Myst I but it's impossible to run it on Xp. IS it possible to start 
 with Myst Exile?
  
  This is a great game, the gameplay especially and the story as well. I am somehow confused by what's 
 happening in this game , that's why i am seeking for help, and am not going to play this fifth 
 game becouse i don't want to spoil the story, so please help me with this.
  
  Cheers 
::::::

::::::
UserName: indigoAK200
Rating: 6.7
Date: Dec 27, 2006 11:56 pm PT
Review:  It's not even been a year yet since Myst IV Revelation hit the store shelves and already, Cyan 
 Worlds and their publisher Ubisoft have released the final installment of the Myst saga. This episode 
 was supposed to let the series go quietly, and that it does, but it leaves a lot to be desired 
 from a developer that was once heralded as the king of their genre. Myst V leaves so many questions 
 unanswered and in a lot of respects creates a slew of new ones. Is this really the way to end your 
 franchise?
  
  Myst V utilizes the same graphics engine that was used in Uru: Ages Beyond Myst, Cyan's failed 
 venture into online gaming. There have been some slight graphical improvements to the engine; things 
 such as motion captured characters, updated water effects, higher resolution textures; but the 
 core foundation of what made Uru so beautiful is all there. The environments you'll uncover feel 
 alive. There are various creatures that you'll see fluttering around. In the ages you'll be seeing 
 birds in the sky, butterflies, bats, swarms of bugs, swaying grass, lapping water, tumbling pebbles, 
 etc. Things in the distance are handled very well, most notably in the astronomy age of Todelmer. 
 Textures are very detailed for the most part and very well created. The exception to this are the 
 textures used on the island of Myst, which if looked at closely, can also be seen in Sunsoft's 
 recreation of the original Myst game, realMyst. One or two of the ages look dated in comparison 
 to their counterparts, but considering the fact that Cyan was under heavy pressure and tight budget, 
 some minor quirks are to be expected.
  
  There's just not enough of it. The largest quirk you'll notice about Myst V is the lack of footsteps. 
 There are so many different types of ground that you walk on in this game and the fact that you 
 can't hear yourself walk over them is quite saddening. Music doesn't play very frequently, but 
 when it does, it fits the mood quite well and empowers the scene. You'll catch a few classic Myst 
 tunes as you progress. Voice acting is exceptional and those of you that journeyed to Myst V after 
 completing Revelation will welcome to the voice casting in Myst V. Much better. None of the voice 
 actors (with the exception of Rand in a couple lines) sound as though they are forcing their parts 
 and it all sounds convincing. Overall, the audio is what you'd expect from a Myst game, just without 
 the footsteps we've come to love.
  
  Myst V combines all of the previous formats of gameplay from each game and gives you the choice 
 of which one you want to use. First, there's the slightly updated Classic mode. Just like the original 
 Myst, it's point and click. You can hold down the right mouse button to look around and find your 
 navigation points, then release and left click to proceed to that node. Then there's Classic Plus 
 mode which mimics the mechanics of Exile and Revelation. You're still using nodes, but you have 
 the freedom to look just about anywhere. Then there's a mode which allows you to use the keyboard 
 arrows to freely navigate as if you were playing an FPS game. Clicking on things works the same 
 way, although in some puzzles, you'll find positioning difficult to achieve while in this mode. 
 Puzzles for the most part are simple, but there are a few that mislead you into thinking their 
 solutions are so incredibly complex that you'll spend hours fidgeting with things that most likely 
 aren't even relative to the game (yes, there are some things in here that don't even need to be 
 messed with that can be messed with) . The slate system adds a new and interesting element to the 
 tired formula that Myst has mastered. At certain points, you'll see symbols in an age. If you draw 
 the symbol correctly on the slate, set it down, and walk away, one of the Bahro creatures will 
 come and do a certain action based on what you drew. There are most likely hundreds of cool little 
 easter eggs that can be found with this new element (if the demo is anything to go by) . These actions 
 can often times open up new ways to progress through an age.
  
  The majority fo the story that makes up Myst V is stuff we already know, just recycled in a new 
 format to make it easier for new players to start the series where it ends. In typical Myst style, 
 character speeches are often times so cryptic that over time, you won't even pay attention to them. 
 Myst V adds very little to the storyline created by the other five games in the series and in the 
 end, you'll be asking yourself why Cyan and Ubisoft decided to take the series as far as they did. 
 You'll see Yeesha once in the very beginning of the game and then all throughout, the story is 
 propelled by meetings with Escher, a shady citizen of the long fallen D'ni. His speeches are often 
 times helpful, but only that. Hints. They usually add very little to the storyline. Throughout 
 the game, you'll find various mini-journals written by Yeesha, depicting the events of the previous 
 5 games, which lends to the fact that End of Ages might be post-Uru as some suspect. Overall, there's 
 little story and the end just gives you more questions instead of answering the ones you already 
 had.
  
  When you sit down and think about what Cyan has done for the genre over the last 14 or so years, 
 it's enough to make your mouth drop. Cyan sparked a revolution in gaming with the original Myst. 
 A spark that carried through to its sequel Riven, and even into the third-party additions, Exile 
 and Revelation. While Uru was a failure in a lot of respects, it boasted beautiful graphics and 
 amazing additions to the storylines. But all of this, Riven, Exile, Revelation, Uru, thinking even 
 further, might have been too much to be good. In End of Ages, Yeesha talks of Atrus; that he couldn't 
 keep Myst simple. He continued to build and add, and in the end, it lead to the age's destruction. 
 In a lot of ways, Cyan, by continuing to push an eldering storyline, could very well be blamed 
 for the decline of Myst's popularity in its latter years. Had Cyan simply said enough was enough 
 after Riven, there wouldn't have been Uru and there wouldn't have been failure and destruction. 
 There wouldn't have been Exile and Revelation, and all of the criticism made in regards to just 
 handing over the rights to Myst. Cyan Worlds and Myst, while two of the 'great' names of gaming, 
 can be a lesson that maybe taking your franchise where it didn't need to go can be devastating 
 when the final chapter is written. For a lot of fans, End of Ages will be everything they'd ever 
 hoped for and for an even larger amount, it will be a blistering disappointment. Regardless, Myst 
 is over.
  
  (I originally had this posted on GameFAQs. I moved it here.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pdgross
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 26, 2006 9:49 am PT
Review:  Like drinking a fine bottle of wine, if you sip this game slowly, it tastes delicious! Guzzle it 
 down and you're left pining for more.
  
  Great graphics &amp; ambient sound --- Todelmer blew me away (we played late at night w/ no lights; 
 the starry sky made me feel like on another planet &amp; the background music made me shiver at 
 times) . Some puzzles were challenging (we needed the walk-through for a few puzzles) , but not as 
 holistic as in Riven (which I found the hardest of the series) . Being able to influence the natural 
 environment was a novel touch to puzzle solving! Great finish to the series --- Esher character 
 reminded me a lot of a certain someone from Riven. And I was left wanting the Bahro to be liberated 
 at the end...
  
  My biggest complaints were less expansive worlds and less interaction w/ the environment as in 
 Revelation (my favorite of the series) . I found the controls (in classic mode) a little frustrating 
 at time. I also found the character development leaving less of an imprint on me than in Revelation 
 (where I began to empathize w/ all the characters) .
  
  Overall, I loved the game and feel like the series closed on a positive note. Highly recommended! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Quellepaur
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 26, 2006 8:21 am PT
Review:  Yep, I am one of those millions of us who can recall a time when Myst, the 1st in a series of stunningly 
 beautiful and compelling adventure games, "ruled the world." Myst was, arguably, the most captivating 
 game ever created up until that point. It gave all gamers a sampling of what was to come as far 
 as visual elegance, emotional atmosphere and well developed storytelling in the realm of video 
 gaming. The follow-ups to Myst, in sequential order, were Riven: the Sequel to Myst (personally, 
 my favorite of the series) , Myst III: Exile (which included a powerful performance by the Academy 
 Award nominated actor Brad Dourif) , Myst IV: Revelation, and finally the conclusive (and upsetting) 
 Myst V: End of Ages.
  
  Honestly, Myst V does not upset me simply because it marks the end of an era. Truly, it had to 
 happen at some point. Game developers must move on to bigger and better things. One can only hammer 
 a nail so long as the wood remains strong. The Myst series did have a great run, but all good things 
 must come to an end.
  
  However, End of Ages in no way compares to its predecessors. The artistic designers in every Myst 
 game prior to End of Ages had one focus in mind: outdo each Myst game before it. For example, Riven 
 was leagues beyond Myst as far as graphic detail and atmosphere. While still maintaining an almost 
 slideshow-style interface, one could see that gaming technology wasn't far from creating a truly 
 3D environment. Riven also allowed gamers the sense that they were continuing the same story that 
 was laid before them at the end of the original Myst. The following two games of the series still 
 had roots in the original story as well - a tale that seemed to forever rotate around Atrus's desire 
 to keep his craft away from those who would use it only for there own greedy purposes. And each 
 one in succession brought new innovations and a greater level of detail to the Myst universe.
 
  
  Now that we have arrived at what was assumed to be the end of a breathtaking saga, I feel almost 
 as though I've been had. Where is all of the detail? The life? The story? Atrus just seems to have 
 been tossed out like an old sofa. What about Catherine? We don't need her anymore! And Yeesha? 
 Well... we'll get to that...
  
  The environments are akin to those rendered in games like The Crystal Key 2 or Schizm, and are 
 hardly anything to write home to mom about. Sure, they're pretty, but everything is cookie-cutter 
 perfect with a minimalist feel. Trees protrude straight up from the ground, having no root systems 
 at all, like those of Riven, or the Edanna age of Myst III: Exile. Even as you find yourself back 
 on Myst Island for the "grand finale," you wonder if the designers ever took a moment to look back 
 at the decade old original model of the island to get a feel for the density of the vegetation. 
 Nearly every age in this game is barren and under detailed. The textures are also poor, incomplete 
 and, in some areas, pasted like patterned wallpaper.
  
  Now, before I mention this next failure let me first say this: I realize that we have come now 
 to an age in game design where it is an almost constant competition to see who can make the best, 
 most realistic computer rendered character models for their games. It is a noble pursuit and some 
 developers are doing quite well. I will even go so far as to say that the character models in this 
 game are quite good, even beautiful. That said, however, the computer character models in this 
 game are probably its greatest flaw as well. I'm sorry, but Myst simply wasn't ready for them yet. 
 For the previous Myst games, in order to make the environments truly believable, they used motion 
 capture technology to place real people into the worlds. This drew the gamer even further into 
 the story as they could then relate to the "human" aspect of the characters. The new model of Yeesha 
 looks absolutely nothing like the young actress who portrayed her in Myst IV. Though the character 
 may have grown much older, her facial features bare no similarities to the young girl. And the 
 stick figure body type looks nothing like the motion capture characters from before. She is just, 
 simply, another computer character. Seeing as this was the "End of Ages," I just feel that, in 
 this case, the developers should've stuck with what worked, rather than trying something new at 
 the last minute.
  
  The only other thing that I will mention may seem a small detail to some, but for me it completely 
 took me out of the game. I no longer felt as if I was playing Myst, but rather a disappointing 
 knock-off. Everyone who has played the past versions of the game will note that everything you 
 do in the Myst universe is done in the first person; from elevators to magnetic transports, blowfish 
 submarines to pinball-rides. But the moment I stepped into the elevator in the Great Shaft and 
 was at once shifted to a third person view of the elevator descending into the depths I knew all 
 was lost. I may have completed the game, but that was the actual point in which, for me, the game 
 was finished.
  
  This may have been the "grand finale" for the Myst saga, but I think I missed the show. All I found 
 in the roughly 6 hours or so it took to reach the end were a few childish puzzles, poor graphics 
 (in comparison to what they could have been) and a new story that is completely distant and unrelated 
 to everything that has lead us up to this point. I'm not sad that Myst is gone. I'm just sad that 
 this is how it had to die. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Biskit58
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jul 9, 2006 11:13 am PT
Review:  this game was ok, but it just wasn't a myst game. it seemed more like a cheap knockoff, or worse, 
 a last ditch effort to make some money off of a name. i'm sure that anyone who has played any of 
 the other myst games will understand what i'm talking about. 
  
  for those of you who have never played the series before and are playing end of ages, i strongly 
 suggest you check out the other games because they are far superior. 
  
  as for the game itself, it did have some neat features. the graphics were good, and the gameplay 
 was smooth. 
  
  overall it was an insult to the series and not fitting to called end of ages, although a game like 
 this obviously did mark the end of myst. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: comm_toad
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 19, 2006 8:59 pm PT
Review:  I have always enjoyed the Myst games. While Riven was my favorite because of the depth of the story, 
 I liked End of Ages better for the graphics and sound. Going totally CGI for the characters gave 
 the game a seamless feel where digitizing actors couldn't. I think that there could have been more 
 story development, by adding scenes with Yeesha, offering more of a tug-o-war between her and Escher. 
 There was usually about one point in each age where I needed a hint, but that's just me. At first 
 I was disappointed with the ending, until I figured out the correct action to take at the end. 
 The final cut scene was great, and had a pleasant surprise. It was a good ending to the series, 
 and I hope that Cyan and Ubisoft continue to make games in this genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mhungry
Rating: 4.8
Date: May 14, 2006 1:46 am PT
Review:  While overall I found this game to be somewhat entertaining, it was also way too easy considering 
 the history of the Myst series. My wife and I sat down and spent maybe an hour a night for 4 nights 
 (one night per age) . Compared to previous Myst segments that we spent much more time on, this was 
 a cakewalk. It seems like the developers were much more interested in furthering the story line 
 than the puzzles... this version reminded me more of Syberia's level of difficulty than Myst.
 
  
  First, let me touch on the interface. Overall it was a significant improvement over previous Myst 
 generations. I liked it that you could choose between 3 different modes. The 3D environment was 
 nice. I did not find the tablet drawing to be particularly difficult, but it was sometimes cumbersome 
 to attempt to duplicate drawings on it. The graphics engine, however, seemed overly system-taxing 
 for how relatively simple things looked. My system is much better than the average home user's, 
 and I cannot even begin to guess how someone with an off-the-shelf system might do with this game. 
 It was also disconcerting sometimes the way the interface handled moving down ladders, etc, sometimes 
 doing 180 degree turn arounds in mid air while "climbing" up or down a ladder. My wife even complained 
 that the motion of moving made her dizzy- a first for her. But overall, the game was beautiful.
 
  
  I was upset very much with the computer generated 3D characters that took the place of real people 
 in this version. They seemed very stiff and half the time or more, their mouths never seemed to 
 really be moving while they "talked". I missed the charm of previous versions where real actors 
 stood in. There really wasn't a good reason to have them in 3D when the game moves you into position 
 for a "talking" moment. Speaking of these moments, it was dizzying to be moved suddenly into a 
 particular place from where you just moved to in order to watch a speech. Also, there was no way 
 to escape out of or skip over speeches.
  
  The puzzles in the game were ridiculously easy. Everything was right in front of you, or in Anna's 
 notes. The difficulty level was extremely disappointing.
  
  The storyline was interesting, but not particularly compelling. There was not one moment where 
 I ever could believe Esher over Tiana. Not one. And why no other interaction with Tiana the whole 
 game except to hear her voice read the journals? The endings were completely predictable and indeed 
 watching them gave zero satisfaction. In fact, only the real ending actually kicks you into the 
 credits... the false endings just leave you hanging. Overall, I knew from the very first conversation 
 with Tiana what I was expected to do with the tablet in the end. Furthermore... what is up with 
 these Bahro? Where did they come from? I've played all 5 main Myst games (I didn't play Uru... yet... 
 because of the bad reviews on its interfacing, etc) and have read all 3 books... and all I have 
 to say it what in the world??? 
  
  Overall I'd say the game was barely worth the $19.99 I paid for it. I can't imagine paying the 
 original price of $49.99 when it came out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spelman
Rating: 6.9
Date: May 7, 2006 4:25 am PT
Review:  So, Myst is at an end, but it is with a whimper rather than a bang.
  
  This game looks great (as do all of they all) but has the advantage that you can fully explore 
 the environments using the standard mouse/WASD combo. And what stunning environments they are too! 
 From lagoons and beeches to snow-plains and fantastic planet-scapes. This is all accompanied by 
 excellent audio, as you would expect. The story is solid and well acted and ties up all of the 
 loose ends, including a suggestion as to your role in things.
  
  Unfortunately, the game is let down by the very thing that made Myst so great/frustrating for all 
 of us who have enjoyed banging our heads against its puzzles in the past. It is not that the puzzles 
 are all easy, it is just that they are all very alike. So, once you have worked out how to use 
 the tablets then everything is of a very similar feeling- "find hidden symbols, use tablets to 
 access new areas". This gives the impression that the developers have run out of ideas. The other 
 big disappointment with Myst V: End of Ages is that it is so short (partially because all of the 
 puzzles are quite similar so, although the worlds are different visually, you are really trying 
 to do the same thing on all of them) .
  
  I have really enjoyed playing all of the Myst games over the years but judging by this one, it 
 really was time to call it a day.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jwells
Rating: 7.7
Date: Feb 11, 2006 12:47 pm PT
Review:  Myst V. The end. My favorite series is at last finished. You would think I would be sadder. But 
 the last Myst game did not leave me wanting more, nor did it leave me unsatisfied. It managed to 
 steer between these worst two possible options, and came up with an understandable, if not completely 
 unpredictable set of endings (there are three) .
  
  Myst of course, is the series that brought adventure gaming back into the main stream. While none 
 of the subsequent chapters ever did as much for the genre as the first Myst game, we must still 
 give Myst its due. It is quite possible that there would be no adventure games at all on the PC 
 if Myst had not been so popular. I still believe there is place in the world for the thinking mans 
 adventure (though I would prefer more human interaction) that is free from the tyranny of end game 
 conditions (such as protagonist death) . I am sad to see the series die. Ill use this review (as 
 I already have) as a small, sad eulogy for the entire series.
  
  Now to the game: the last installment of Myst I found particularly difficult. There was too much 
 pixel hunting, and not enough cleverness in the puzzles. One hallmark of all the other games is 
 wickedly clever environment puzzles that tease the brain but seamless to the surroundings. This 
 game to lacked that seamless integration. Oh the puzzles are hard (almost too hard and arbitrary 
 in nature, at times) . But for some reason they did not seem as intrinsically and environmentally 
 sensible as they have been in the other games. Perhaps I am expecting too much. Also where has 
 the full motion video gone when a particularly difficult puzzle is solved? The Myst world seems 
 to have gone backwards in technology.
  
  The characters are good, but not great. The sneaky, wheedling Esher is his own worst enemy. For 
 example, in his home world he apologizes profusely about how he has treated the Bharo (a race 
 of monkeys with strange powers) . To tell you the truth, if the guy had never said that I would 
 have no idea what he was talking about. There was no evidence of cruelty, no unusual Bharo behavior 
 that would make you think they had been mistreated. Again, compared to the other Myst games, where 
 the cruelty to animals or people was done subtly and in such a way as to make you hate the perpetrators 
 of the crime, this was done badly. There was no evidence of cruelty toward these creatures, except 
 the blithering of the apologist Esher. For someone supposed to be so underhanded and manipulative, 
 this seemed like a strange mistake in his character. And Yeesha  it was pretty much impossible 
 to guess, even based on her journals and viewer entries whether or not she was a refugee from past 
 insanity, or still a few bricks shy from a full load. Even the essential nature of the Bharo was 
 never made clear to me. Are these kind creatures that are under unfair enslavement? How would they 
 behave in larger numbers? I just didnt feel like I had enough information about either the Bharo 
 or Yeesha in the end to make the final Myst choice (though I could guess by the heavy-handed approach 
 of Esher that he was a baddie) .
  
  So, all in all, I liked playing the game. The puzzles were hard. The characters were good enough 
 to keep my interest. However, it seemed like the creators of Myst were uninterested in the game 
 to make it as deep as it could have been. So, I appreciate what they have done, and applaud them 
 for making a final ending to the series. I am also glad that they will not be continuing on in 
 the Myst world, as it appears that the makers interest in things Dni has waned, and so has the 
 quality of the game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sarge21
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 7, 2006 9:20 pm PT
Review:  Even though I was sad to see this series end, I have to remember that 'all good things must come 
 to an end', and this finale did not let me down. I loved the fact that there was more player involvement, 
 and the storyline was put together very well to end the series, however, I must admit that even 
 though I thought this game was great, Myst IV was better, especially the part where you begin the 
 'dream state' and Peter Gabriel is singing his remix of his song 'Curtains', it's the best I've 
 ever seen. I also recommend reading the 3 Myst books, 'Myst: The Book of Atrus', 'Myst: The Book 
 of Ti'ana', and 'Myst: The Book of D'ni', these books along with the 5 Myst games together, make 
 for one fantastic story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: selbie
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 25, 2006 7:09 am PT
Review:  While I was never able to finish the original Myst due to both my impatient adolescence and the 
 incredibly difficult puzzles that Myst presented over 10 years ago, I was still intrigued by the 
 mysterious, almost surreal aura surrounding the story and settings of this game. What was even 
 more special was that this whole story of betrayal and untimely sorrow surrounded a single family, 
 nay, a single man named Atrus who wished to preserve an ancient art handed down to him, through 
 lineage, from an ancient race of people known as the D'ni.
  
  Ten years later, my intrigue for this story was reignited when Myst IV: Revelations was released 
 and I was awestruck at how sublime and elegant this game played out to be. The story flowed smoothly 
 and the puzzles were challenging, yet solvable. The emotion I felt as I followed the characters' 
 enchanting lives was so very tangible and even made me sit up and think 'wow'. The graphical presentation 
 was astounding and the dynamic environments and panoramic vistas made the game seem almost life-like.
 
  
  The latest, and final installation of the Myst series, Myst V: End Of Ages, is worth giving substantial 
 credit for ending the story of this tragic family on a high note with an excellent plot. However, 
 Rand Miller's decision to bring the Myst universe into fully rendered 3D was indeed ambitious, 
 yet it undoubtedly became the biggest flaw in this final chapter.
  
  End of Ages features seven different ages to explore. Bear in mind I use the term 'different' quite 
 loosely as many of the ages, while beautiful in their own right, seem uncanny in their similarity 
 and don't have the level of detail and depth that a pre-rendered environment would produce. Surely 
 the design team could have made a more advanced version of their graphics engine used for Revelation 
 merely because it was perfected and gave the Myst franchise its unique charm. As the old adage 
 goes "if it ain't broke, don't fix it". Sadly Rand Miller tried to "fix" this game by changing 
 the way players interacted with the ages and consequently, it lost some of the magic that surrounded 
 its earlier incarnations.
  
  Once again you start off the game as yourself - dragged into a new and unexplored universe ready 
 to explore the unknown.
  The game revolves around two major characters: Yeesha (previously seen in Myst III, Uru and in 
 Myst IV) , and a new character, Esher, one of the last surviving D'ni. In order to fully restore 
 the D'ni race to its former glory, it was prophecised that the Grower (who is believed to be Yeesha) 
 must utilise a powerful artifact known as the Tablet. The Tablet holds the ability to fully control 
 a mysterious slave race known as the Bahro. Upon unlocking the Tablet, Yeesha made a misguided 
 decision which consequently prevented her from accessing the Tablet ever again.
  Yeesha then gives you the quest to unlock the Tablet, and hopefully, another chance at restoring 
 the mysterious D'ni race. Over the course of the game, the player must unlock this "master" tablet 
 by exploring four significant ages. Throughout this quest, the player will also encounter Esher, 
 who attempts to influence the player's decision on what to do with the final tablet upon unlocking 
 it.
  The player's own choice is the crux of the game. Upon unlocking the Tablet, you are burdened with 
 the fate of the D'ni civilisation. The player must make a decision that will ultimately decide 
 whether the civilisation will prosper or collapse. This choice echoes the fateful decision required 
 in the original game Myst.
  
  Within each age you are literally burdened with a large slate which can be carried around and subsequently 
 inhibits your movement to some areas when carrying it. This provides an extra challenge to the 
 player by finding out how to move it around the age and eventually bring it back to the "master" 
 tablet. Through each tablet, the player can also control the Bahro's mysterious power, such as 
 invoking rain, which is used to progress through each age. This mechanism of progressing through 
 the game is slightly frustrating and annoying, especially when you want to solve different styles 
 of puzzles, like in Revelations. This adds to the similarity between ages and consequently drags 
 a lot of diversity out of the game.
  
  The sound in Myst V: End of Ages is no different from any of the other Myst games - simply astounding. 
 The variety of moods and themes portrayed through the soundtrack is excellent and gives this game 
 a very finished quality. The sound effects are also great, not to mention diverse, and you really 
 get the sense that you are interacting with something unique, not an ambiguous sound that is used 
 for many things at once.
  
  Obviously my final gripe with the game is the resounding misjudgement to use a real-time 3D engine 
 instead of the tried and true static, prerendered technique. The engine seems a little outdated 
 and bland compared to its heavy hitting FPS rivals like Doom 3, Half Life 2 and movement in the 
 game reminds me of the stale and robot-like articulations in Elder Scrolls III: Morrowind.
  
  For fans of the Myst universe, this game pulls together a satisfying closure to an enchanting 
 story that is full of intrigue. It provides hours of pleasure and rewards pain through the challenging 
 puzzles it offers and allows you to explore, unhindered by a static control interface. However, 
 Myst V: End Of Ages ultimately falls short of the great game it had the potential to become purely 
 because it tried to become something that it didn't need to be. The story alone is enough to entice 
 gamers for more, which removes the need to change the foundations of the series' resounding success.
 
  I certainly recommend buying this game, however, it will never be as beautiful and enchanting 
 as the previous chapters of Myst. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ernelson1976
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jan 10, 2006 5:57 am PT
Review:  Where to begin? Myst series games have always had their highs and lows. Easy puzzles mixed with 
 the insanely difficult. Good graphics mixed with horrible video overlays, etc. The latest, and 
 last, entry in the Myst series is really no different.
  
  The puzzles are a mixture of easy and difficult. I did not find any as insanely difficult as in 
 some past chapters of the series. I never found myself completely stumped, although a few puzzles 
 did leave me a bit confused for a bit.
  
  The character models, done in-engine, are excellent. Amazing, even. It appears as though they did 
 motion capture for the character animations, which was an excellent idea. Except for the fact that 
 the characters are a bit over-animated. Their hand motions and movements are smooth and very life-like, 
 but they are constantly moving. Real people don't do that. So the movements were very good (and 
 the animation of the face and clothes was fantastic) . But it was if they had this brilliant idea 
 and over did it. It ended up a beautiful looking but irritating distraction. The voice acting was 
 excellent, for Esher. The Yeesha voice acting was far to melodramatic and, I thought, goofy. Another 
 distraction.
  
  Which brings me to my other complaint. The 3D engine. It's simply not up to snuff for a Myst game. 
 It looked wonderful, really, for a fully 3D world. I still think that the Myst IV engine was far 
 more detailed. I can do without the full 3D in an adventure game, to tell you the truth. Being 
 able to walk around in the game like in an FPS was interesting, but in the end I opted to use the 
 node system. In FPS games, moving around is rather simple because the levels tend to be designed 
 linearly. But not Myst, and other adventure games. The node system keeps you focused. Being able 
 to walk around too freely just made the game seem aimless. I wish they had stuck to high resolution, 
 panning stills and other animations. The result of their decision was that the game is simply not 
 immersive at all.
  
  I've always found the Myst plot to be a bit weak, and this game was the same. From the first few 
 minutes of the game I knew where it was all going. The designers tried to make the initial introductions 
 and dialogue (monologue, really, since you, the character, never say a word throughout the entire 
 series) sound mysterious and strange. But their direction is very obvious. There are no real surprises. 
 And the ending is no different from any other Myst ending, really, where you know exactly what 
 will happen anyway.
  
  Still, as adventure games go, Myst V is certainly worth playing, though it seems to me that this 
 series has gone out with a whimper rather than a bang. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xyriel
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 8, 2006 9:54 am PT
Review:  I've played all Myst games. This one was by far the most beautifull and immersive since maybe the 
 1st one 15 years ago. The environement is superbly rendered, the sounds are immersive and the characters 
 that accompany you during your journey are as detailed as you can see in Half life 2.
  
  Sadly, the puzzles are too easy and too few making this game very short. I was able to go through 
 all of it in 12 hours. At most, even for new players not used to the "myst like" puzzles, this 
 game can be done in 20 hours.
  
  It seems Ubisoft preped this game that it could be the last Myst. However, seeing this one, I would 
 love a Myst 6 with the same quality but longer gameplay.
  
  Because of the gametime, I would suggest waiting that it gets to the bargain bin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: terryprior
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 6, 2006 4:17 pm PT
Review:  Fans of the Myst series will definitely enjoy Myst V: End of Ages. It brings together all the hallmarks 
 of the acclaimed series. A wonderful story, beautiful graphics, life-like sound quality, and of 
 course the intricate puzzles make Myst V a gem for the genre. Given the ease of learning the interface 
 new players can drive right in along side veterans of the previous titles. The puzzles can be challenging, 
 and at times frustrating, but they are also fun to solve. Myst V is a game where players have to 
 earn their advancement. It takes ingenuity and wit to navigate through the Ages and restore the 
 worlds of Myst. If you are up for the challenge take a deep breath and step into the pages of history, 
 and enjoy the game for all times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paula465
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jan 2, 2006 5:07 am PT
Review:  It may have been because I knew this was the last game in the series (and perhaps the last ever 
 developed by Cyan) , but there was definitely something amiss with Myst V. I played slowly to stretch 
 the experience out for as long as possible, but depression hung over me during the entire time.
 
  
  Truely, the majority of puzzles just seemed to be puzzles for puzzles sake and didn't add a great 
 deal to the story. Many had too few clues to really allow you to understand their pupose in the 
 game. Esher was long-winded and many of his speeches were unintelligable. To make matters worse, 
 in order to read what he said, you had to page through the entire journal, instead of being placed 
 at the newest addition. Yeesha seemed more demented than anguished. There were some glaring bugs 
 with allowed you to skip entire portions of the game and at times the need to get the symbols drawn 
 exactly right was extremely frustrating, especially using the mouse.
  
  The setting in D'ni made the heartbreak of the demise of Uru: Live more depressing. Yes, there 
 was immense beauty every where you looked, but it only reminded you that you'd never look upon 
 it again.
  
  A very sad and depressing experience overall.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talonfire
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 23, 2006 6:53 pm PT
Review:  I was disheartened to hear that the Myst series was coming to an end early this year since I've 
 been following the series since the beginning. Twelve years after its initial release the series 
 has gradually decreased in popularity, but not the quality of the games themselves.
  
  Myst V: End of Ages opens up with you the player in the K'Veer Island chamber from the original 
 Myst. Like the original game, you have no idea what is going on so you're left to your explorations. 
 Eventually you'll come across Yeesha and she will briefly explain your quest and then send you 
 to a small desert area where you'll meet the game's other main character; a full blooded D'ni named 
 Esher. The plot unfolds from there. Throughout the game you'll recover small journals left by Yeesha 
 in D'ni that summarize the events from the past games in the series, including Uru. Overall the 
 story will keep you mesmerized up until the emotional closing.
  
  Myst V uses the same basic exploration, journal reading, and puzzle solving that is hallmark to 
 the Myst series. A fresh new idea used in Myst V, however; are the slates. Throughout the game 
 you're forced to carry heavy slates around certain Ages so that you may use them to communicate 
 with the "Bahro", a species of intelligent creatures. To do this you draw symbols on the slate 
 (which can sometimes be frustrating) and drop it. A Bahro will appear and if your symbol is clear 
 enough it will perform the specified action. There are also puzzles scattered around the ages that 
 have nothing to do with the slates; more traditional Myst puzzles if you will. These puzzles tend 
 to be somewhat easy like those in Myst III: Exile, but some can force you to sit and think for 
 a little while.
  
  Myst V uses the same engine that was used for Uru: Ages Beyond Myst. Therefore Myst V looks like 
 practically the same game in some areas. Fortunately the environments are unique enough to still 
 feel fresh and not like a retread of Uru and its respective expansions. The textures are mostly 
 clear and the grass effects are nice; some textures feel rushed however particularly in Lak'kan 
 and Noloben.
  
  The audio in Myst V is satisfactory. The voice acting is fortunately great, the polar opposite 
 of the appalling acting seen in Myst IV: Revelation. Unfortunately the music seems uninspired, 
 but Tim Larkin did a better job on Myst V than he did on Uru. The sound effects are good, however, 
 but there is a disappointing lack of footstep sounds. This is not a huge issue, but after Myst 
 IV and Uru I was expecting footstep sounds in the finale.
  
  Myst V: End of Ages is a satisfying and special chapter in the Myst saga, as it is the last. If 
 you're a fan of the Myst series you do not want to miss the finale; if you're not a fan and have 
 no experience with Myst games I would encourage you to go back to the original and start from there. 
 It's a great series that has an equally great conclusion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: muffinimal
Rating: 5.3
Date: Dec 15, 2005 2:30 pm PT
Review:  Although I am quite a fan of the previous Myst-incarnations, Myst V has only managed to disappoint 
 me. Not once, not twice. I decided not to keep track as to try and keep some positive memories 
 about the game.
  
  There are loads of reviews out there, so I will stick to the negative aspects mostly. The graphics 
 are superb. the environmental sounds are great, the music was quite nice (It was great compared 
 to the dreadful score of Myst IV) , but sadly Cyan forgot about to make a real game out of the game.
 
  
  It starts with the storyline: the plot has some potential, but there is hardly any development 
 in it. After half an hour of play you will probably already know where you will be going and how 
 the ending is going to be. It's not always bad to just sit back and enjoy whatever you are presented 
 with, but in Myst V it doesn't really work. After you have solved one or several not very inspiring 
 puzzles a newly introduced character will hold a monologue. All you can do then is sit back and 
 be bored. I am awed by the way he is animated, though.
  
  The next thing that bothers me. And it really bothers me, are the puzzles. With a puzzle-game I 
 would expect to have at least some fun and challenging puzzles. Well... There are neither in the 
 game. There are two reasons for this: firstly, they have tried to keep the puzzles simple. This 
 often translates in finding a solution somewhere and you, the player, trying to find out how exactly 
 the solution is supposed to be applied. Not that bad, but it does get worse. 
  
  In Myst V a lot of the puzzle-solving will involve a slate of stone on which you can draw symbols. 
 You are supposed to find the symbols by solving other puzzles. It does sound like fun and it could 
 have been, if only for two major drawbacks of the game: first there is the crappy recognition of 
 the drawings. Sometimes you have drawn a perfect copy of the thing you are supposed to draw and 
 the game just doesn't recognise it. There were actually two times in the game that I tried the 
 same drawing over and over again and decided that my solution wasn't right. After some wandering 
 about in the game and not finding anything, I felt myself forced to read a walkthrough only to 
 find out that my solution was right, but that I just didn't draw the symbol right. Grmbl.
  
  It does get even worse though: the game accepts any symbol. You can accidentally draw a symbol 
 which you shouldn't know you just yet and consequently find yourself at the very end of a world. 
 It happened to me that just after I had entered a world, I accidently drew the solution of that 
 world. Not a good thing.
  
  Then there are the bugs too. I experienced about three total crashes. I wasn't even thrown back 
 to windows, but a complete reset of the computer occurred. Not very nice. And a couple of times 
 I couldn't walk anymore or stuff similar to that. The bugs can be reproduced by the way.
  
  I shudder at the thought of having to play another Myst. So I am very happy this is supposed to 
 be the last one ever. It's not a total waste of time, but if you are planning to buy this title, 
 be sure to wait until it reaches the bargain bin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eat_My_Shortz
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 3, 2005 10:23 pm PT
Review:  So this is how it ends. The final game in the Myst series, the greatest adventure series of all 
 time. Is it the greatest? Does it tie up all the loose ends and bring the series to a triumphant 
 close? More importantly, is it worthy of the name Myst?
  
  First, a bit about me: I am a huge huge fan of the Myst series. Therefore, this review is biased 
 in favour of adventure games and Myst's surrealistic beauty. If you are a Myst fan too, you'll 
 probably agree with me more than if you weren't. As much as I loved this game, I'll be fair and 
 I won't go easy on the criticisms!
  
  And I did love it. Myst V is a first-class adventure game  beautiful, intelligent, thought-provoking, 
 and personal. It comes with all the excitement of exploring strange, yet strangely-familiar places, 
 and the moments of realisation, when you've worked out a puzzle. It suffers from a small number 
 of design flaws, but as long as you're careful, they shouldn't get in the way.
  
  Graphics and Controls
  
  I'll start by discussing the most contentious issue, the graphics 
 and control scheme. Myst V is presented in full real-time 3D, and is the first game in the core 
 Myst saga to do so. Where previous games had you stepping through fixed nodes in a pre-rendered 
 world, talking to real live actors, Myst V throws all of that away, and places you in a complete 
 3D environment, complete with 3D-modelled characters.
  
  The decision to do pre-rendered or real-time is never taken lightly in the adventure genre these 
 days. In Myst V, many fans have registered their disappointment with the move to 3D, and it has 
 been probably the biggest complaint with the game.
  
  I can't say I understand them. Myst V is astounding. The graphics, which are technically unimpressive, 
 manage to capture the same elegance and beauty found in all the Myst games. It's hard to tell that 
 they are real-time at all. Of course, they do not have the same intense polygon-count of the pre-rendered 
 Myst IV, and don't have the same level of detail. But, I'd say the worlds overall are just as beautiful.
 
  
  As far as controls go, Cyan have finally hit the nail on the head. In their previous real-time 
 3D attempts, realMyst and Uru, there have been bucket-loads of complaints about the difficulty 
 of the game's controls. So someone at Cyan had a brain-wave: why not let users choose their own 
 control scheme, out of the classic Myst/Riven scheme, the classic-plus Myst III/Myst IV scheme, 
 and the free-move realMyst scheme. Not only does this let more advanced users (especially first-person 
 shooter players) move anywhere they like, and let less-capable users control the game easily, but 
 it also lets players switch on-the-fly to choose the best control scheme for certain situations.
 
  
  Unfortunately the control scheme has a few let-downs. Firstly, I find the free-move mode annoying 
 because it is so slow to move. Although you can run by holding the shift key, the free-move mode's 
 run option is as fast as the other modes' walk. There needs to be a way to change the movement 
 rate. All of the previous Myst games let you change the transition speed, and realMyst even let 
 you change the run speed for free-move mode, so why not here? That aside, you can get around in 
 the game in a number of ways and it's easy to find a mode which suits you.
  
  Actors
  
  One of the biggest changes for Myst V is the absence of live actors. The four previous games featured 
 many characters, all played by real people, shot on blue/green-screen and superimposed into the 
 game world. In fact, one of the big selling-points of Myst IV was more live action. It came as 
 a bit of a shock to learn that Myst V would have all of its characters in real-time 3D, just like 
 the game. But, as with the rest of the game, it is handled brilliantly.
  
  Rather than modelling the face and animating the characters by hand, as in Uru, Cyan used motion-capture 
 to get realistic body movements. But the coolest thing is what they did with the faces. In a spark 
 of genius, Cyan filmed close-ups of the actors' faces and then wrapped them around the characters' 
 heads as a texture. This works remarkably well, and makes the characters very lifelike.
  
  The voice talent of David Ogden-Stiers (from MASH) and Rengin Altay (voice of Catherine from Riven) , 
 both who played a role in Uru, returns, but this time they also lend their faces to the game. Both 
 actors play their parts remarkably well  both get very personal with you and you come to know 
 them well, just as you came to know Atrus, Gehn and Saavedro in previous games.
  
  They play the game's two central characters, Yeesha, the daughter of Atrus who appeared in Myst 
 III: Exile, Uru and Myst IV, and Esher, a new character who is from the race of the D'ni. Esher 
 appears at random points throughout the game, I'm sure, more than any other character in the series. 
 He will tell you interesting stories, provide subtle hints, and try to convince you to his point-of-view. 
 Although he appears a lot, it is always good to see him, and he never gets annoying, or too helpful.
 
  
  Characters and Story
  
  While Yeesha has a fairly large role compared to some of the other characters in the series, it 
 was a bit disappointing that she didn't appear more. The game felt quite biased towards Esher, 
 and it was a bit odd that he kept trying to tell you not to listen to her, when she was never really 
 talking to you. Also, both of them keep preparing you for this choice you have to make, without 
 ever really explaining what you'd have to choose between.
  
  The game's story, like Uru's, is multi-faceted. Aside from the main storyline of the tablet and 
 the Bahro, you'll find Yeesha's journal pages scattered throughout D'ni, similar to Saavedro's 
 pages in Myst III. These pages give non-Myst players the backstory of the entire series, and draw 
 out the relevant themes. They effectively tie together the stories of Myst, Riven, Exile, Revelation 
 and Uru.
  
  Since this is the end of Ages, and the last game in the series, the ending of the game is more 
 important than ever. With the exception of the original Myst, all of the games have had exciting, 
 dramatic and poignant endings, so End of Ages had a lot to live up to. Without revealing anything 
 of its content, I must say that it was the most amazing ending of all, and does a really nice job 
 of tying up the series to a fitting conclusion.
  
  Although there is no amulet for memories like in Myst IV: Revelation, luckily the game continues 
 Myst IV's feature of having journals read aloud to you, which is quite relaxing.
  
  Slates and Other Features
  
  Myst V includes a very cool new feature, which pretty much becomes 
 the focus of the whole game: the slate (it is good to see that even in the final instalment, they 
 are still coming up with new ideas to set the game apart from its predecessors) . The slate can 
 be carried around with you and drawn upon. Certain symbols you draw on the slate can be recognised 
 by the game and are used to affect the world, or teleport you to new places. There is a new slate 
 in each of the four main Ages, and the slates are used in one way or another for most puzzles in 
 each of these Ages.
  
  It sounds a little worrying, but it's fine, believe me. You'll like the slate concept. This is 
 because it's not so much about what symbols to draw  they are usually obvious  it's how to use 
 them. Wrapped up around the slate actions are some very Myst-like puzzles, and fans of the past 
 games should feel right at home. Also it's important to point out that no two slate puzzles are 
 alike, so it doesn't get repetitive. Finally, the slates add some life to the game in two ways: 
 firstly because they summon the Bahro creatures whom we've been trying to learn about since Uru, 
 and secondly because each slate has the power to cause a major environmental effect in the Age, 
 and these effects are always very cool.
  
  The slates come with one huge huge problem which is pretty much the only major complaint I have 
 about the game. They aren't terribly picky about how you draw the symbols. It is not only possible, 
 but quite likely, that you will draw something on the slate which you weren't supposed to draw, 
 but which the game thought was something else. This has the effect of taking you further in the 
 Age than you're supposed to be  in some cases it can take you right to the ending. You may think 
 it's good to get further in the game, but it isn't fun at all  you miss out on a lot of the game 
 and have to load a saved game or start again if you want to see it. The lesson here is to save 
 the game regularly, and also not to draw anything on the slate unless it is clearly marked on a 
 slate pedestal or drawn with the slate logo around it.
  
  As fun as the slates are, it's also nice to know that there are areas in the game, outside those 
 four main Ages, where there is no slate and more traditional puzzles are present. As far as puzzle 
 difficulty goes, I think they have found a good balance. The puzzles are fairly hard, but not insane 
 like some of those found in Uru or Revelation. I think the puzzles are about on-par with those 
 of Myst III: Exile.
  
  The saving system in Myst V is original and good. Unlike more recent games, where you save to a 
 long list of separate games, Myst V lets you create personal profiles, like Uru. Each profile represents 
 a single adventure, starting at the beginning of the game, and each profile gets a single journal 
 to write in. Saving the game places a photo in the journal and lets you restore to that point at 
 any time.
  
  The fact that the journal is shared for all saves in that adventure gives two advantages over Myst 
 IV: Firstly, you don't lose all of your thoughts if you choose to load an older game, and secondly, 
 all the photos aren't needlessly replicated for each save, as they were in Revelation.
  
  Game Locations
  
  As far as locations go, the game is plentiful. Myst V contains eight distinct 
 areas in total - seven Ages, including two separate areas of D'ni.
  
  The game begins in K'veer, in that round, stone room you may remember from the end of Myst, the 
 beginning of Riven, or the end of The Path of the Shell. For all the times Cyan have taken us back 
 to this historically important place, they've never let us walk out of it. It is fitting that the 
 final Myst game should be the one to finally break this tradition. It is a heart-stopping moment 
 to finally, after twelve years of waiting, open that door and explore the vicinity. The game also 
 lets us explore the entirety of the Great Shaft, connecting D'ni to the surface, something hinted 
 at in Uru: To D'ni. The Shaft itself is an awe-inspiring piece of architecture.
  
  Outside of D'ni, the game takes you to the small and peaceful Direbo, a rest Age with links to 
 the four main ages of the game: Tahgira, a frigid, icy prison Age, Laki'ahn, a tropical paradise, 
 Noloben, a lovely sunny beach Age, and Todelmer, an amazing Age set on a small moon of a planet. 
 The latter two were originally planned for Uru, and Cyan even released screenshots of them back 
 in 2000. Noloben in particular was a much-requested Age and it was good to finally explore it.
 
  
  Despite the large number of Ages, the game seems a little short. Maybe it's the feeling that it's 
 the final game, or the relative ease of the puzzles, but it just doesn't seem like I've explored 
 the five islands of Riven, or that each Age was as long and large as those in Exile or Uru (which 
 had a comparable number of Ages) . However, the game is at least as large as the original Myst, 
 and each Age offers at least three or four puzzles. You certainly get a run for your money.
  
  Conclusion
  
  So, in the end, is Myst V: End of Ages a worthy conclusion to the series? 
 Does it live up to this legacy which can only be described as epic? After playing the whole game 
 through, I'd say, definitely. The story is there. The puzzles are there. It has everything you'd 
 expect from a Myst game. And I think the ending sealed the deal for me. It may have a couple of 
 interface design flaws, but it's almost perfect as far as the actual environments and puzzles are 
 concerned.
  
  And the best part is, it can be enjoyed by everyone. So, I invite everyone to join in on the adventure 
 of a lifetime  for the grand finale to Myst! What an experience it has been. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: camerilla
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 26, 2005 9:05 am PT
Review:  Finally~~~ It's the end. The last episode of Myst series. I'd been waiting this for long. I was 
 actually quite disappointed on this game. Not that the graphics or sound or anything, it's the 
 difficulty. I was expecting it'd be extremely difficult since Myst is famous for some of its non-sense 
 and annoying quests/puzzels. However, this one was too easy, you could figure out anything if you 
 had taken notes during the gameplay. 
  
  The graphics were GREAT!! Especially the "planet" world. The sound was great and suited for the 
 game. The story plot of the game......... well~~ forget it..... nobody really remember what's the 
 storyline after almost 10 or more years since the first Myst released, at least I only remember 
 who's who not the story plot. 
  
  Since the puzzels were pretty easy in this game, so it's rather short compared to other Myst games.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TazmanianD
Rating: 8.1
Date: Oct 17, 2005 9:31 pm PT
Review:  I am a great fan of the Myst series and have enjoyed all of the games in it. I enjoy games with 
 depth of story, difficulty to tease the brain, attention to detail and of course, sexy graphics 
 and technology. Myst V is a mixed bag of those things.
  
  Overall, I would say that I was satisfied with playing Myst V but my final impression of the game 
 would be that it's way too short. I finished the game in about 12 hours, probably the fastest I've 
 ever finished a game. The game is divided into four primary ages with a tiny "home" age and an 
 introductory age that you begin the game in. Each of these ages is disappointingly small and leaves 
 you not with a sense of being immersed in incredible worlds, but more about being constrained to 
 the boundaries of a game.
  
  The graphics themselves are quite good and I was definitely satisfied on that point. Because Myst 
 V is a fully 3D interactive game, the graphics cannot really be compared to the pre-rendered photo-realistic 
 graphics of previous Myst games. For those who played URU, I would say that the graphics in Myst 
 V are superior and the interface is much more comfortable. The interface in URU was rather clunky 
 and didn't have the same smooth feel to it that's typical in first person shooter games. Myst V 
 does not have that problem and you can move through the world without having to feel like you're 
 fighting the controls.
  
  The puzzles in Myst V, a hallmark of the myst games, were fairly satisfying. The had a feeling 
 of being just about right - not too difficult and not too easy - although several of the puzzles 
 can be solved by brute force and luck instead of actually solving the puzzle and that's no fun. 
 I would have been happy if they were more difficult, but any easier would not have been fun. I 
 also had the feeling that the puzzles made more sense then you sometimes get in these games. They 
 are more integrated into the environment and less about just pushing random buttons and levers.
 
  
  Myst V introduces the concept of a Bahro tablet upon which you can draw symbols that command the 
 Bahro in the ages to perform certain actions. The game doesn't explain how to use the tablet or 
 tell you what it does, leaving it up to you to divine its use, but that is part of the adventure. 
 You cannot carry the tablet with you at all times and figuring out how to use it, how to get it 
 where you need it, and how to get it to do what you want adds an interesting twist to the series 
 that I wholeheartedly approve.
  
  One thing that is conspicuously missing from the games is all of the "stuff" that you can poke 
 and prod in previous Myst games. There are no plants you can water, no generators to charge and 
 no desk-lamps to turn on. Everything you interact with is an element to one of the puzzles and 
 takes away a lot of the sense of detail you find in previous games.
  
  With the exception of Yeesha's journal that you put together in the introductory age, there are 
 no journals, notes, research materials or other reading materials that you find in large abundance 
 in the previous games. Instead, you meet a character named Escher who appears at various times 
 as you move through the ages and who gives you advice. I couldn't help but wonder why if Escher 
 was trying to help me and could clearly pop in whenever and wherever he wanted, why couldn't he 
 just tell me how to get through the door or activate the thingy. The things he said were also vague 
 and seemed silly to me. I could have done without him and I would have preferred the mounds of 
 journals to read instead.
  
  The story is also not terribly interesting. You get some information from reading Yeesha's journal 
 and you get a smattering of gibberish from Escher but ultimately, the point and the conclusion 
 of the game seem rather weak. For a game that was billed as the last of the series and for a game 
 called "End of Ages", I would have expected something more spectacular, but it was not to be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: J_Santos_CE
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 10, 2005 4:50 pm PT
Review:  I started playing this a few weeks ago. it is a very nice game, and i do feel emersed in to the 
 game. however, i dont feel the same connection as when playing riven, exile, or Revelation. The 
 story doesn't grab me as do the previous games of Myst. While the 3d rendered characters do make 
 one feel more connected to the world, i for one enjoyed and miss the old vid caputre movies presented 
 in the older myst games other wise, i definatly enjoyed the game and when i finish building my 
 new gaming computer i can fully enjoy what this game has to offer. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
