-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Mystery of the Druids
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/mysteryofthedruids/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov  5, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4.6
Critic Score: 5.1, 17 Review (s)
User Score: 6.7, 57 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: cdv Software
Developer: House of Tales
Genre: Adventure
Date:     2001
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The setup promises both sleuthing and suspense, but Mystery of the Druids delivers neither. 

 
  Mystery of the Druids, by first-time developer House of Tales, is an adventure game that unsuccessfully 
 attempts to evoke the supernatural intrigue of the Gabriel Knight games. As Brent Halligan, a Scotland 
 Yard detective, you are assigned to investigate a series of brutal murders. The setup promises 
 both sleuthing and suspense, but Mystery of the Druids delivers neither. Instead, you get only 
 generic adventure-game puzzles that have little to do with detective work and everything to do 
 with tricking people into helping you perform mundane tasks. You also get a story that moves blandly 
 from point to point.           Most of the game's puzzles require you to trick someone into helping 
 you.    

  Since Halligan is a detective for Scotland Yard, you would think that advanced tools of the trade 
 would be at his disposal. But Mystery of the Druids has a seemingly endless supply of contrivances, 
 excuses, and roadblocks. To access the Yard's computer database, you must trick your irascible 
 chief into signing the proper forms. Never mind that you're investigating a series of brutal murders -- he 
 simply won't help you unless you trick him. Worse still, the game's first major puzzle requires 
 you to find a way to knock out a beggar so that you can steal his change and use a pay phone. Why? 
 Because the phone in Halligan's office doesn't work. And, conveniently, Halligan has lost his wallet. 
 And no one in the department will let you use his or her phone.   

  Other puzzles are equally confounding. One involves throwing a handful of salt to destroy a huge 
 mausoleum. Another has you stealing a fishing pole to get the said salt. Almost every puzzle requires 
 you to resort to petty theft or illicit means to accomplish your goal, and your goals are, more 
 often than not, simply ludicrous. Adventure games often require you to suspend your disbelief to 
 navigate the challenges, but Mystery of the Druids requires you to abolish your disbelief completely. 
   

  Halligan can't seem to get help from anyone. People hang up on him when he's trying to get information, 
 librarians refuse to help him find books, and everyone seems to be generally rude and unimpressed 
 by the fact that he is a detective working on a horrible and infamous murder case. Scotland Yard, 
 and possibly the entire population of Great Britain, might consider suing House of Tales for defamation 
 of character. Only two characters provide any help at all. One of these is Dr. Melanie Turner, 
 an anthropologist who becomes a sort of Grace to Halligan's Gabriel. You play as Melanie for brief 
 periods of the game, but her puzzles are of the same ilk as Halligan's, and there's no real discernable 
 reason for her presence.   

  Melanie Turner is a plot device in a game surprisingly devoid of plot. The major developments in 
 Mystery of the Druids don't take place through discovery, but through dialogue. People tell Halligan 
 what is going on and what he should do next. This acts not only to kill suspense, but also to make 
 the storyline little more than a brief respite between the puzzles. You are forced by the game 
 to do unintelligent things -- hide a sacred artifact in a ferry cabin, break into a suspect's house -- and 
 the results are predictably bad. One major plot twist halfway through the game is so silly and 
 grotesque that you can't help but wish you were given a more intelligent character to control. 
           You will play as both Detective Brent Halligan and Dr. Melanie Turner.    

  The dialogue doesn't help to liven things up. Most of it is entirely expository, outlining what's 
 gone on and what should happen next. Some of the early dialogue makes a cursory attempt to establish 
 the characters, but for the most part, it's there only to set up the puzzles. The actual dialogue 
 branches are confusing and often seem like a maze that you'll need to navigate over and over again 
 to get every possible thread. Important dialogue branches will just disappear as you converse, 
 and you'll have to repeat whole conversations to find them again. The voice acting is good for 
 the main characters but occasionally inappropriate for secondary characters -- like the venerable 
 professor who sounds like Howard Stern.   

  The graphics incorporate three-dimensional characters on two-dimensional backgrounds. The backgrounds 
 look good, but the characters are low-resolution and awkward. Moreover, they all have strange arm 
 animation that make them look like they are either trying to describe the shape of a ball or prone 
 to violent fits of vertigo. The graphics are generally good, though, and most locations have ambient 
 elements -- like construction workers in the background -- that make each area seem alive.   

  Unfortunately, Mystery of the Druids falls victim to the worst clichs of its genre. It would 
 seem that the act of investigating a murder, a supernatural murder at that, would include enough 
 puzzles of its own. But House of Tales has opted instead for the path of illogical inventory puzzles 
 and morally questionable acts. It's bad enough to believe that Scotland Yard would put such an 
 infamous case in the hands of an unlikable and incompetent detective, but it's worse that House 
 of Tales has put that same detective in your hands.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Stu-pendous
Rating: 4.6
Date: Jan 5, 2007 9:09 am PT
Review:  Mystery of the Druids' pitch ought to go down well with hardcore adventure fans: play a flawed 
 hero in the shape of Scotland Yard detective Brent Halligan who is assigned to a murder case recently 
 re-opened for investigation after jailing the wrong man. The grisly murders appear to have some 
 connection with supremacist neo-druids with the intent of conjuring world threatening power. Brent 
 and his sidekick, the biologist Melissa, find themselves doing the incredibly unlikely: delving 
 into the past to discover forbidden knowledge that holds devastating force.
  
  This all sounds straight out of the adventure genre's handbook, but there's one problem: Mystery 
 of the Druids is entirely dull and unconvincing from start to finish. Puzzles are poorly realised, 
 the characters are one dimensional (not to mention painfully annoying) and the story is almost 
 a pale imitation of the first Broken Sword. Everything about the game is not only half-baked but 
 uninspired and waywardly stupid. I'm just getting started. The adventure in Mystery of the Druids 
 is roughly the equivalent of slamming your head in the oven.
  
  Are we really supposed to believe that Brent Halligan, more incompetant than Guybrush Threepwood 
 sans the comedy, would actually get away with breaking the law half of the bloody time in order 
 to solve crime? Or that Scotland Yard would actually employ a charmless, lumbering doofus like 
 him in the first place? Yet this is how Mystery of the Druids pans out. Along with the terminally 
 annoying Brent, we have the lifeless Melissa as the token hot sidekick . Combined they make a bigger 
 arse out of matters and along the way manage the rare trick of making easy solutions much more 
 tedious, such as breaking into the meglomaniac's mansion by cutting through a hedge with some acquired 
 shears. Startling stuff, eh? Throw in a few cliches and Mystery of the Druids hits saturation point 
 with great ease.
  
  The real terror with this game is in the beginning: Around an hour is spent for Brent, a Scotland 
 Yard Detective, to get a signature from his boss to, wait for it, use some stationery. Why doesn't 
 he have his own? Why are the other characters so tight-arsed not to lend him any? Listening to 
 the pompous characters pour disdain over Brent is so annoying to the point you could almost throw 
 your computer out of the window. There is no redemption in the gameplay either. Sticking to a rather 
 standard formula of item solutions and puzzles, there's a huge lack of interest that Broken Sword 
 or Monkey Island series manages so well.
  
  Personally, I think it breaks a certain rule to have any main protagonist in a point-and-click 
 adventure game as a detective. Part of the intrigue with characters such as Manny Calavera from 
 Grim Fandango, George Stobbart from Broken Sword or the lovely April from the Longest Journey is 
 that they are drawn in or simply compelled to the ultimate mystery; Brent has a professional duty 
 rather than a personal motive. Revolving around how the characters wrangle their way around obstacles, 
 the inventory solutions can also be quite fun and interesting; Brent breaks the law to solve problems, 
 making the whole idea of Scotland Yard Detective not only irrelevant, but rendering him into nothing 
 but a useless idiot.
  
  Graphically, Mystery of the Druids is a mixed bag. The locations and backgrounds are all elegant 
 but the characters look abnormal. I point towards the impossibly long eyelashes of Brent and Melissa, 
 and the shovel hands of all the character models. The animation isn't impressive either, although 
 more power to the game for showing Brent interact with the items he uses for solutions (I hate 
 it when adventure games swap this for simple hand rubbing to convey a character utilising an item.) 
 On the other side of the coin, the soundtrack is reasonably good. Typical haunting themes and evocative 
 melodies play at the right times while the voice duties are sadly embarassing. Brent's tone of 
 voice is robotic and monotonous while Melissa's constant bewilderment has her sounding like a borderline 
 simpleton.
  
  You know when an adventure game falls flat on its face the moment when not one, but every conversation 
 with the NPCs finds you begging the screen to get a move on. Or stuck in a scenario and not trying 
 desperately to move onto the next one. Whatever the painful tedium set in previous games, Mystery 
 of the Druids just about pips it. Alongside the drear City of the Lost Children, Mystery of the 
 Druids contends to be one of the most boring adventure games yet.
  
  Overall? Give this game a miss. Mystery of the Druids tries to be thrilling and fails because of 
 the lack of suspense and interesting characters Broken Sword would bring to the table, and no subtle 
 humour like the Discworld series either. Worst of all, the imagination it desperately needs has 
 forgotten to take inspiration from the groundbreaking The Longest Journey or the fascinating Syberia. 
 So, then, what is the point of Mystery of the Druids? Aside from showing a prime example of why 
 the adventure genre is bashed by the ignorant gamer, not a damn thing. This game arrives at a time 
 where The Longest Journey and Grim Fandango, two of the greatest adventure games ever made, are 
 now available at a budget price. Two timeless classics for the price of a game that is a major 
 disappointment? The opportunity here should not be missed. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
