-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Myst III: Exile
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/myst3exile/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May  4, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.7
Critic Score: 7.8, 38 Review (s)
User Score: 8.5, 1,018 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: Presto Studios
Genre: Adventure
Date:     May 8, 2001 &raquo;  
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Myst III: Exile builds on the legacy of the series and provides an almost magical sense of wonder. 
 

 What happens when you create one of the biggest-selling computer games of all time? You get a lot 
 of fans, and a lot of detractors. Since its release in 1993, Myst and its sequel, Riven, have sold 
 approximately 10 million copies worldwide. Published just when the CD-ROM format was gaining widespread 
 acceptance, Myst took advantage of the CD's huge storage capacity to create a gaming experience 
 quite unlike any other. Through a nearly transparent point-and-click interface, you navigated a 
 surrealistic fantasy island created from beautiful static scenes rendered in high resolution. Playing 
 Myst was like wandering into an enchanted art gallery, and the gameplay was paced like a leisurely 
 stroll. The learning curve was flat -- the difficulty came only in solving the adventure's challenging 
 puzzles. You couldn't die in the game, and there was no combat of any kind. It was refreshingly 
 different. Now the Myst colossus is striding back on the gaming scene with Myst III: Exile, a game 
 that builds on the legacy of the series and provides an almost magical sense of wonder.        
    Much of the scenery found in the game looks strikingly realistic.    

  Between its visual beauty, its interface (which you can learn in less than a minute) , and its utterly 
 inoffensive puzzle-solving style of play, the original Myst became an unprecedented success. Many 
 people who normally wouldn't touch a computer game took to Myst with amazing enthusiasm, which 
 bewildered a lot of hard-core gamers. Some of these players in turn blamed Myst for the demise 
 of the adventure game genre when countless uninspired copycats followed in its wake. Myst's simplicity, 
 pacing, and postcardlike images were widely condemned by those favoring more action, interaction, 
 and depth. It's no secret that adventure games, whose death has been prematurely announced time 
 and time again of late, are struggling to stay alive. However, recent games such as the critically 
 acclaimed The Longest Journey have shown that adventure gaming hasn't breathed its last breath 
 just yet, and Myst III is probably more likely to help reinvigorate the genre than to hurt it. 
   

  Myst III: Exile builds on the mythology of the first two games. Central to the stories in Myst 
 and Riven are the D'ni, a race with the ability to write magical books that create links to the 
 worlds, or "ages," described in them. In Myst, you learn that Atrus, a part-D'ni scribe, imprisoned 
 his malicious sons, Sirrus and Achenar, in other ages and then destroyed the books linking to them, 
 leaving the sons trapped forever. These very sons give rise to the story behind Myst III.   

  Myst and Riven were developed by Cyan, founded by the brothers Rand and Robyn Miller. Though 
 Cyan handed over development reins to Presto Studios for Myst III, Rand Miller reprised his role 
 as Atrus in the new game. His wife, Catherine, is played by Maria Galante. The villain of the story, 
 Saavedro, is acted with flair by Brad Dourif, the Academy Award-nominated actor best known for 
 his dark, eccentric roles in numerous horror and science-fiction films and TV shows. The actors 
 deliver convincing performances and are also smoothly incorporated visually into the prerendered 
 scenes of the game.           The point-and-click interface will be instantly familiar.    

  One of the great appeals of the Myst series has always been its ability to immerse you in visually 
 memorable fantasy worlds. The same is all the more true in Myst III. The developers pull off the 
 impressive feat of letting you freely and smoothly pan your view in any given scene in all directions 
 with the mouse. This may not sound like much to anyone used to 3D shooters, but the level of detail 
 in the game often borders on photo-realism. The ability to "mouse look" is enormously effective 
 at drawing you into the worlds of the game and makes mere sightseeing highly entertaining.   

 
  What really grabs your attention, though, isn't merely the enormous detail of the graphics, but 
 how that realism is coupled with surrealistic whimsy. The game has the rare capacity to evoke a 
 real sense of wonder as you explore its various locations. The island of J'Nanin, for instance, 
 features buildings carved inside giant tusks that gracefully arch from the ground. The age of Amateria 
 looks like an otherworldly amusement park. Winding stairs feature unusual embossed decorations, 
 articulated machinery is made of fine gears and elegantly carved spindles, and gigantic flora looks 
 alien while at the same time appearing remarkably reminiscent of real plants. The occasional animations 
 are superbly rendered, and some are quite amazing. Sadly, there are no graphics options, outside 
 of selecting software or hardware rendering. To alter the gamma or brightness, for instance, the 
 option screen simply tells you to adjust your monitor. That oversight is unfortunate, since many 
 areas in the game are extremely dark, so it can be easy to overlook things.    

 The game's music and sound effects add to the vividness of the worlds you explore. The impressionist, 
 ambient score quietly and effectively sets a melancholy mood with distant percussion, chimes, and 
 weeping strings. The sound effects are also reserved and even subtle. They're just enough to make 
 the worlds feel alive, but not so much that it spoils their otherworldly senses of solitude and 
 even loneliness.           You'll have to solve numerous mechanical puzzles.    

  Like the interface in previous games in the series, the one in Myst III: Exile is the epitome of 
 intuitive simplicity. You just move your mouse to look in any direction and click on an area to 
 move to it or click on an object to manipulate it. The interface does have some weaknesses, though. 
 Like its predecessors, Myst III is largely composed of static scenes, and there's slight hesitation 
 as you move between areas. Also, you can't be sure whether the area you're pointing at is accessible 
 or just part of the scenery until you click on it. In some cases, it's pretty clear: On a bridge, 
 you can move in either direction, and that's it. However, when you're on the rocky island of J'Nanin, 
 for instance, it can be difficult to discern at first where you're allowed to walk because of the 
 island's numerous winding rock steps, sand dunes, and hills. Movement is even more unclear on the 
 twisting paths of the treelike island in the age of Edanna.   

  Gameplay essentially revolves around exploration and puzzle-solving. These elements can be very 
 satisfying in their own rights, but taken together, they can be a bit dull at times. Some puzzles 
 will require you to reorient multiple objects in different locations, and even if you know how 
 they should be manipulated, you'll still need to traipse back and forth to get the job done. Seeing 
 one locale the first or second time is highly enjoyable, but having to walk through it repeatedly 
 just to solve puzzles that let you proceed to a locked area isn't much fun.   

  The puzzles often reveal more of the plot and are usually at least tangentially related to it. 
 At the same time, their existence often feels rather arbitrary or artificial. They typically involve 
 pattern recognition or manipulating elaborate and even convoluted Rube Goldberg machinery (or machinelike 
 plants) . You might have to rotate a series of reflectors to focus the sun's rays on a door to help 
 open it or figure out how to get a power generator to work by manipulating its circuitry. Most 
 of the puzzles are quite challenging and will really put your wits and observation skills to the 
 test. To aid you in exploring the storyline and solving the puzzles, you can carry a small inventory 
 of journals and papers that you find over the course of the adventure. However, there's no help 
 feature built into the game.           Myst III evokes the same sense of wonder as the original 
 did.    

  As enjoyable as the puzzles can be, they can pose some problems for the overall game design. You 
 can find multiple puzzles to work on at once, which can make it unclear which object or manipulation 
 is related to another. Also, if you get stuck on certain puzzles, there's little to do in the game 
 but wander around over the same ground you've seen many times. That's of course a strong motivation 
 to solve the puzzles, and "running up against a wall" can be part of the fun in an adventure game. 
 But it can also lead to boredom or frustration. While each puzzle generally has just one solution, 
 the game still provides solid replay value because of its large scope. Plus, the game has multiple 
 endings.   

  In the end, much of Myst III's appeal depends on how much you like puzzle solving, since it's the 
 key to progression in the game, like it is in Myst III's predecessors. If the mere existence of 
 a problem fires your determination to solve it, then the game can be highly entertaining. Because 
 the game progresses at the pace at which you solve the puzzles, it lacks any sense of sustained 
 drama or tension -- however, this relaxed pace can be very refreshing. What's more, the story is 
 satisfying. This is a game that should appeal to both novice players and hard-core gamers, even 
 to those skeptical of the Myst series. Ultimately, what's most impressive about Myst III is that 
 it combines intellectual challenge, solid storytelling, and scene after scene of stunning, imaginative 
 beauty.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (19 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Eric721
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 23, 2008 3:54 pm PT
Review:  Games like this are really great. You have barely any information of the world around. How it was 
 created, who lives there, what any of it means. And you will have to make sense of it on your own 
 to get though it. 
  
  Myst 3 has brilliant graphics, (at least for it's time) an wonderfully strange atmosphere, and 
 nice, subtle background music. This game will offer you hours and hours and hours of fun and frustration. 
 The puzzles in Myst games are really hard, but that's why everyone loves them. Or at least everyone 
 who does love them loves them for that reason. Another great thing about this game is the feeling 
 of being alone and confused in a strange, realistic world. This is very hard to describe, but it's 
 what really gives the Myst games their charm. Especially 1,2, and 3. This is one of the most fun 
 and interesting games that you'll ever play, if you like this type of thing. If not, you'll want 
 to throw it out the window because it's too hard. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OpratorHunter
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 14, 2008 7:50 pm PT
Review:  In the Myst series you are always counting on this equation: mystery + puzzles + beautiful worlds 
 = a game that will keep you filled with wonder. In Myst 3: Exile that is exactly what you find. 
 I found the different worlds incredible, each one with puzzles that are frustrating in a good way, 
 and the plot that connects them together will keep you guessing until the very end.
  In many ways the third game is a lot like the first two. You are placed in an unknown area, this 
 time looking for a man who has stolen a very important book. As you start your travels on the island 
 you wander around, looking for the next step to take to get to the next place. Like the previous 
 games, you must continue all the way to the end to face a choice, one that determines if you should 
 win or lose the game. I recommend a note book as your going to have to remember most information 
 you find in your travels to get through and beat the game. You can't die in the game and you have 
 an unlimited amount of time to complete the game with no rush.
  Though the puzzles to me in Myst 3 are definitely challenging, they are a little easier then the 
 first two in the series. While you will no doubt scratch you head a couple of times before deciding 
 what to do, I didn't have to get any help to beat the game. (It should be noted to the reader that 
 I played the first two games, so I did somewhat know what I was looking for.)
  In the end, the Myst series is even better. Graphics are the best so far, puzzles are hard but 
 satisfying, and the plot is different and new. Two thumbs up for Exile.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Humikimi
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 18, 2008 9:31 pm PT
Review:  I have spent plenty of time with Myst and Riven, and being able to finally pick up Exile felt good. 
 The first thing that hit me about the game was its full 3-D looking. This can be disconcerting 
 at first for series veterans, but it is easily overcome after a short period of time. You will 
 quickly learn that this adds an immense level of depth to the series that was not there before.
 
  
  Because of that, the game looks absolutely beautiful. Ever single part of the game contains painstaking 
 detail, and there is no shortage of beauty in the Ages (my favorite, Edanna, was stunning to say 
 the least) . Everything is well-crafted and integrated into the game, and yet it still manages to 
 be pre-rendered. The ability to freely look around definately allows you to fully appreciate the 
 imagination and craftsmanship put into every section of every Age. In short, this is such a stunningly 
 beautiful game, that even now, with games like Crysis under my belt, I can appreciate it.
  
  The sound is just as good. The sound effects are very fitting and sound perfect for each situation. 
 The quality is magnificent and the music is perfectly fitting. It is a pity that the game doesn't 
 support proper surround sound, because it definately would have benefited from it. Still, the game 
 sounds great, and keeps true to the series' amazing aural presentation. The acting is also well 
 done and appropriate, and I couldn't have asked for more out of the game.
  
  So what? The game is an aesthetic achievement for its time, but that doesn't make it good necessarily. 
 What is it that makes the game so good? Well first and formost are the puzzles. They are perfectly 
 integrated into each Age (much better than the other games) and there is no disbelief in any of 
 the puzzles. They make perfect sense for how and why they are there. One thing I did notice though, 
 are that all the puzzles are a level easier compared to the past games. They are all more focused 
 to their areas (like Myst, unlike Riven) and are generally not too complicated. They still require 
 a little thinking and attention to detail, but they are definately a lot more forgiving to people 
 that are not very good at puzzle solving. This can be good, and bad. For me this was great, because 
 I am not good at puzzle solving, so I didn't get frustrated too much with this game. This couldbe 
 bad because veterans might find it a bit too easy, especially after what we had to go through for 
 the past 2 games. Overall though, the puzzles are logical, well-made and solvable.
  
  The story in the game is also magnificent, and is explained through notebook pages all over the 
 game and conversations with characters. The game plays simply enough as well. Like its predecessors, 
 you merely point and click to move, and to interact, and to do anything. It isn't too hard, and 
 even with 3D movement, it is still made with simple controls in mind.
  
  With that being said, also like its predecessors, you will not find much reason to come back to 
 this, unless you have an urge to replay the series. The puzzles will remain in your brain and you 
 will have no trouble solving them again. The game is slightly shorter than Riven but still longer 
 than Myst, so it is of a good length. Nothing extra is offered upon completion, though it should 
 be noted that a nice 25 minute making of video is included with the game. Most games these days 
 come with short 5-10 minute making of videos that are useless, but this one is actually decent, 
 AND you don't have to buy a special edition to get it. This is definately a huge plus, but unfortunately 
 doesn't help the overall replay value much.
  
  In the end though, Exile delivers a unique experience that only the Myst games have been able to 
 deliver, and does a good job of it. Here is yet another sequel to this fantastic series that did 
 everything right. Do check it out. Enjoy.
  
  Gameplay: 8/10
  Sound: 10/10
  Graphics: 10/10
  Value: 6/10
  
  OVERALL: 8.5/10.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pandaramaster
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 18, 2008 12:25 pm PT
Review:  Myst, before The Sims came along, was the best selling PC game series of all time. If you were 
 to play the very first title today you would have a very hard time believing that. The controls 
 are primitive, the difficulty and learning curve is through the roof and to make any sense of the 
 plot requires you to disembowel the Dianetics to achieve the same level of understanding.
  
  Yet there's a certain level of charm and engrossing feeling when you play Myst. You're free 
 to explore everything at your own pace and in your time. The same is for the sequel, now handled 
 by Presto Studio. While not developed Cyan, it still clearly is Myst.
  
  Let's make one thing clear. You need the patience of a saint for this game. Myst 3 is not an accessible 
 title. True, the game plays with the "point and click" but to grasp the complexity of the puzzles 
 with the vaguest of clues can try even the most devout Buddhist. Obviously with something this 
 difficult the sense of accomplishment is understandably great. But is it worth 2 hours of complete 
 frustration and boredom of not knowing what to do or where to go next? You see, the Myst series 
 is one of those series that is for hardcore nerds like myself and no one else. You have to at least 
 played the previous two titles to get an idea on what is going on and what to expect.
  
  The graphics are phenomenal. The art direction is simply outstanding. Any idiot can see that. Though 
 it sticks to the tried and tested pre rendered backgrounds of Myst and Riven, the ability to look 
 around in complete 360 degree motion is an astonishing feat. The music is also brilliant, with 
 powerful orchestral music for important cut scenes and soft ambient music for exploring, it truly 
 is magnificent. I also like how the environmental sounds add to the whole atmosphere and believability 
 of the game. This truly is a brilliant audio/visual package.
  
  The longevity of the game depends solely on how quickly you solve the puzzles, beat the three Ages 
 and the ending you get, which obviously adds to the re playability. Even if you know exactly what 
 you're doing the game is still pretty big, roughly 20 hours+ to complete it once. This is a big 
 game, but can you survive the frustration to reach the end?
  
  You either have to like Myst or hate it. Those who liked Myst will no doubt love and laud Myst 
 3 Exile. If you like excitement and hand holding adventuring look elsewhere because this is as 
 hardcore as it gets. It won't gain any new fans but old fans are well catered for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pdgross
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 30, 2006 12:47 pm PT
Review:  Two things stood out for me on this game: The wild roller-coaster ride at the end of the Amateria 
 Age is the best kind of reward I've seen, er experienced, for solving a puzzle. My favorite age 
 of all Myst series because of this! And awesome acting by Brad Dourif as the villain Saavedro. 
 He made the character believable, well-rounded, and understandable. By the end of the game I was 
 hoping for some kind of redemption... Throw in the immersive nature Age (Edanna) , a clever global 
 puzzle that comes to fruition at the end (talk about a climax) , and an emotional send-off at the 
 end, and this game easily has become a fave of mine! Oh, and it has great graphics &amp; sound 
 &amp; all that multi-media stuff you'd expect in a Myst game as well.
  
  No real complaints with this game, but we played it after Myst IV, and probably just because the 
 graphics, sound, character development &amp; story weren't quite as good, I've given this one a 
 less than perfect score. Kind of unfair really :-) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: perlox
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 6, 2006 6:21 pm PT
Review:  The third installment in the Myst Series once again comes aptly prepared and ready to knock any 
 myst fans pants off!
  Get ready to plunge yourself deep into the new worlds that bring you from a ocean surrounded island 
 full of odd gadgets, to a giant tree with beautiful visuals, and a few others.
  I was awed and amazed at the game, and would jump right back into it if i wasnt so tied down by 
 work and other games.
  Its defiently shorter than Riven, but still has a lot of the flare and good times, so you wont 
 be dissapointed.
  I would recommend this game to Myst fans, and to more hardcore gamers that like puzzles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poetsoul
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 27, 2006 6:43 am PT
Review:  Presto Studios produced an admirable sequel to Myst series with Myst III: Exile. The game provides 
 an intriguing storyline coupled with high quality puzzle work, and delivers tremendous satisfaction.
 
  
  Story: 
  
  Once again, the player returns help Atrus and Catherine in accomplishing some goal that they are 
 unable to complete themselves. (Oh, my name is Atrus and I'm trapped in another dimension... please 
 do the work for me?) The player is visiting the couple on their age of To'Mahna when all of a sudden 
 a ragged figure (played by Brad Dourif) appears, and steals the special book that Atrus has been 
 working on. He disappears into his own linking book, but not before setting fire to Atrus' study. 
 The player chases after the thief just before the flames consume the book.
  
  The player finds himself in a teaching world Atrus had designed for his sons many years ago. The 
 thief, Saveedro, has altered the world and its neighbors to provide Atrus with a lesson of his 
 own making. Instead of Atrus appearing, however, it's you, and whatever connection Saveedro had 
 with Atrus' past is up to you to discover through the clues that he drops throughout the game.
 
  
  Gameplay:
  Jaw-dropping for its time, and even by modern standards a beautiful experience. Whereas Myst and 
 Riven was essentially a massive collection of stationary pictures, Myst III is a collection of 
 pictures one can look at in 360 degrees of vision. Standing from any point in the game, the player 
 can look all around him, left, right, up, down, simply with a flick of the wrist. The result is 
 a truly immersive gameplay experience, and the series which is famous for bringing its players 
 into interactive world-poems again succeeds in making the experience a little better than before.
 
  
  Puzzles:
  Varied, and intricate, without being overtly complex or tacked on. Puzzles are organic, they fit 
 in with their world. For example, on the tree world one is constantly wondering how to twist vines 
 and shed sunlight to affect nature, in the stone world one is weighing rocks and balancing scales. 
 The challenges of the game often require looking for hints in another place, so if you are stuck, 
 leave the world entirely and come back to it later.
  
  Acting:
  Just enough of it to transmit plot well, not an overload as in the Myst games to come. Brad Dourif 
 plays his part perfectly. Good man.
  
  Graphics:
  Breathtaking. The way these designers have carved out their levels is fascinating, haunting, liberating. 
 One feels the existence of history in the worlds he enters even if one doesn't know it. Colors 
 are bright, every facet is detailed. Stunning, truly stunning.
  
  Closing thoughts:
  With Myst III the designers mastered the formula in such a way that had not been achieved at that 
 time and would not be obtained again. Further Myst games would overact, over story tell, over puzzle, 
 and over think their way to mediocrity... Playing this instalment is like catching a wave at its 
 crest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GoNavy
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 23, 2006 12:13 pm PT
Review:  Myst III, Exile was excellent and I highly recommend it. There are 4 wonderful ages to spend time 
 in, each one more interesting than the last. Atrus' 2 sons are exiled to 2 of the ages and they 
 are trying to escape. The final age is where you all meet. In the first age where Atrus lives, 
 you really get a sense of their family and their home. The graphics are lovely as is the music. 
 The crystal age is frightening in its austere beauty and the puzzles are ridiculously hard. The 
 Island age is calm but with an underlying fear, so many wild creatures watching you. The final 
 and peaceful age does not give up its secrets easily either, but the creativity of this world is 
 beyond what I could ever create. I enjoyed meeting the actors and hearing their stories. They filled 
 in the blanks. The journals I found were well written and gave history to the sequel. I loved the 
 puzzles although a few had me looking for a hint.;) I thoroughly enjoyed being transfixed with 
 this game and recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gengarjetty
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 12, 2006 7:49 am PT
Review:  Myst 3 : Exile for the PC is a magnificent game. The game's graphics gameplay and especially sound 
 are what makes this game so interesting, immersive and innovative! 
  The gameplay is extremely good, with the new 360 degree rotation has improved the gameplay tremendously!!! 
 This increases our exploratory capabilities in the game. The puzzles are fun! The storyline is marvellous, related 
 to the 1st game. The ages are facinating and are a thrill to explore!
  The graphics are very good, especially for a P-2 processor and an 8mb graphics card. 
  The greatest 
 feature of the game is it's sound. Rand and Robyn Miller did the right thing in hiring Jack Wall 
 for the music and sound.
  The game is a classic, and in my opinion, is even better than Riven. You can play this game over 
 and over, and not get bored. If your a fan of the MYST series, or mystery game, or ANY PC game, 
 you should buy it. So, I think MYST 3: EXILE for the PC is a fantastic game and I give it a whopping 
 9.7 out of 10! Enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: messtimeteacher
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 21, 2006 2:09 pm PT
Review:  Whereas I thought the puzzles in Myst IV were too difficult for me, the ones in this Myst Exile 
 game are within my problem solving range, so I could finish this game with just a few times linking 
 to my favorite walk-through Age.
  
  However, it felt really disappointing that I finished the game before I got it's bill for it. I 
 think the game was too short (hey, there's my title) . But the graphics are great and the game-play 
 keeps you interested till the end. 
  
  For an older game in the Myst saga I think it's still worth any penny of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IceArrow88
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 16, 2006 5:19 pm PT
Review:  The third installment in the Myst series brings us yet another adventure into the beautiful and 
 enchanting worlds of Atruss creation. The story begins in Tomahna, a tranquil world where Atrus 
 and his family now reside. Upon Catherines suggestion, you wait inside the study for Atruss return. 
 Once your old friend arrives, he discusses his plans for the Dni and the newly created Age of 
 Releeshahn. However, his dialogue is cut short when a strange-looking intruder warps into the room, 
 steals the Releeshahn Book, and immediately links away using his own linking book. Determined to 
 recover the stolen book, you follow the wild man and link to Jnanin, the Lesson Age.
  
  As you try to recapture the Releeshahn Book, you must once again use your wits to solve the puzzles 
 that Saavedro has placed before you. Though it would seem that Saavedro is clearly your adversary, 
 as you move throughout the Ages linked from Jnanin and explore your surroundings, untangling the 
 various challenges he has constructed, you gradually begin to piece together this tortured mans 
 story and understand his motives. Its an unfortunate story that began with Atruss malicious sons, 
 Sirrus and Achenar, before Atrus had learned about their treacherous nature. I thought this made 
 for a great plot since it ties in with the previous Myst games and actually makes you sympathize 
 with the villain.
  
  Throughout your quest, youll travel to four main Ages, each with a unique environment, music, 
 and set of puzzles. In the first three Element Ages, to which you can travel in any order, your 
 essential goal is to find that worlds unique symbol and bring it back to the Lesson Age. Voltaic 
 is the Age of Energy, where youll need to harness and channel power to a particular part of the 
 island. Amateria is the Age of Dynamic Forces, in which you will need to finish a circuit of track 
 in order to ultimately find the symbol. The structures and puzzles of this Age make it feel like 
 an amusement park, and its a fun world to explore and interact with. Edanna, the Nature Age, was 
 definitely my favorite world. This scenic Age is teeming with life, and your job here is to discover 
 how the plants and animals interact and respond to various stimuli. Once youve discovered the 
 three symbols, you will unlock the fourth and final world: Narayan, the Age of Balance, where you 
 will need to solve the glyph puzzle and finally face off with Saavedro.
  
  As before, the controls are simple  you use the mouse to control your movement and interact with 
 your surroundings. The puzzles are still pretty challenging, requiring a good deal of patience 
 and experimentation. In a game that focuses so much on keen observation of the sights and sounds 
 of your surroundings, its particularly important to have a game that excels in both its graphic 
 presentation and its soundtrack. And Myst III does not disappoint. The graphics are fantastic, 
 making the worlds really come alive with awe-inspiring splendor. The music and the sounds are likewise 
 amazing. The soundtrack really fits well with the Ages and the story. And the main theme just rocks!
 
  
  My only real complaint is that I wish the game were longer. Nonetheless, Exile is a remarkable 
 sequel in the Myst series, and if you enjoy a good challenge, you should definitely give this game 
 a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talonfire
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 7, 2006 11:59 am PT
Review:  Myst III: Exile was a sequel to Myst and Riven developed by the late Presto Studios. It often receives 
 a lot of flak from the Myst community for blantly shoving its puzzles in your face, but a lot of 
 Myst fans seem to realize that, that is the point.
  
  Exile is set ten years after the events in Riven. You meet up with Atrus once again in his new 
 home of Tomahna some time after he finished writing Releeshan for the survivors of the D'ni civilization, 
 and after his daughter Yeesha (who is important in all Myst games after Exile) is born. Upon your 
 arrival Atrus wants to show you Releeshan, so you wait, and after a brief one sided conversation 
 with Catherine, and exploration of Atrus' office he finally arrives. When a mysterious man links 
 in, steals Releeshan, and sets Atrus' office on fire you're forced to follow him alone to Atrus' 
 lesson age of J'nanin where the thief has been planning his revenge against Atrus and his sons. 
 The plot isn't really remarkable, but it is solid and flows quite well.
  
  The gameplay in Exile is very much like the past two Myst games. You spend most of the time solving 
 puzzles that are made quite obvious this time around (you are going through lesson ages after all) , 
 and simply exploring the isolated worlds. Unlike Myst and Riven, however; Myst lets you look around 
 at a full 360 degrees while standing at one location. This increases the overall immersion of Exile, 
 and makes you feel like you are definitely there.
  
  Exile's visuals are surrealistic and very true to the original Myst's idea. Every age you visit 
 is teeming with atmosphere, and looking at the sun causes glare as it would if you were really 
 there. There are occasionally textures that look "fake", but for the most part Exile excels in 
 the graphics area.
  
  Exile's audio is outstanding. The music is composed by Jack Wall, and delivers a surprising amount 
 of additional atmosphere that increases the magic of exploring Exile's beautiful worlds. The music 
 is also aided by excellent ambient sound effects which are well placed.
  
  Myst III: Exile is a must play for fans of the Myst series. Exile is also easily recommendable 
 to people who are just starting adventure gaming because what is a puzzle is clear, and the puzzles 
 themselves are not extremely frustrating like some of those found in Riven. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bengameaholic
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 26, 2006 6:09 am PT
Review:  Myst 3 : Exile is a good myst game. It is actually also a nice PC game to own. The enviroments 
 that you visit throughout the game are amazing even though you walk through step by step. The puzzle 
 are difficult in this game but can evantually be conquered. The problem is that you seem to walk 
 around from one place to the next for a long time. Another problem is that if you do not do some 
 thinga absolutly perfectly, then they cannot be completed. The sound is refreshing and overall 
 you do in a way get absorbed in the world. I don't think that you will really try and beat it again 
 once you've already beaten it. If you don't know what to do then it can get quite frustrating. 
 But this game is better than average, it is a good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: terryprior
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 8, 2005 7:31 pm PT
Review:  This is Myst, Well to be more specific this is Myst 3: Exile. But still it is Myst, and most of 
 you know what that means. Beautiful graphics. Nice sounds and music. And empty worlds with mechanisms 
 to frob and books to read. Need I say more? Perhaps not, but I will, go on at some length. I suppose 
 there are people who are simultaneously interested in a Myst game and have a very short attention 
 span. For those people: This game is like Myst. It was designed by Presto Studios, not Cyan and the 
 Brothers Miller. Its gameplay and puzzles are very similar to those in Myst and in Riven if you 
 have played the first two games? Then you'll probably like this one? Myst 3 won't change your mind. 
 But the devel is in the details, as I will attempt to explain. The plot, such as it is: you pay 
 a visit to Atrus and Catherine, some time after Riven. He's hard at work on Releeshahn, a new Age 
 for the D'ni. He wants you to see it, but before he can take you there, a man appears, and grabs 
 the Releeshahn book, and pouf! and he vanishes through a linking book. The linking book doesn't 
 go with him, since that's not how the linking book works. This gives you a chance to follow him. And 
 you do, of course, thus landing in a world named J'nanin. It turns out that J'nanin is the hub for 
 three teaching worlds, worlds which Atrus put together to help his two sons learn the techniques 
 necessary to write Ages. Need I say more the game looks spectacular. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shawn_Watson
Rating: 8.2
Date: Oct 12, 2005 12:57 pm PT
Review:  I've had Myst III for almost 4 years. Yes, it's taken me that long to finish it. But it sure is 
 a wonderful game. In terms of graphics, Riven was a simple step up from Myst. But Myst III adds 
 a whole new level of realism to the franchise.
  
  The main new feature is that you can look anywhere you want in any direction withing the photo-realistic 
 worlds when before you could only look at a limited amount of certain things. These worlds are 
 empty but beautiful to look at and have an eerie, ghostly atmosphere to them. The graphics are 
 so convincing that the roller-coaster ride in the middle of the game will make you feel like you're 
 really there. Not only do the graphics stand out but sound effects pan across the sound-field when 
 you spin around and wind whistles between the rocks.
  
  The story involves the maniacal sons of Atrus (that would be Sirrus and Achenar) continuing to 
 wreak havoc through-out the ages. They have destroyed a world known as Narayan and left sole-survivor 
 in exile on the island of J'Nanin. This man is Saavedro (Brad Dourif) , who ultimately blames Atrus 
 for his sons going off the deep end.
  
  Atrus (played by Rand Miller as always) calls upon you to go to J'Nanin and find Saavedro, who 
 has stolen Atrus new age Raleeshan. Saavedro traps you into going through many different worlds, 
 unlocking secrets, finding clues and seeing for yourself what Sirrus and Achenar did to Narayan. 
 Each world has a different look from the last but still retains that spooky feeling no matter if 
 your in a swamp, caverns, beach or mountaintop.
  
  But still, the most impressive thing about Myst III is Jack Wall's brilliant score, which is simultaneously 
 haunting, beautiful, dark and Gothic. He seamlessly blends magical with choral and gives us a highly 
 thematic score with surpasses that of most big-budget movies. Definitely the best score a video-game 
 has ever known. And that's a pretty big statement.
  
  I got the Limited Collector's Edition of this game which comes with the score CD (now very hard 
 to find and very expensive) a 'making of' CD, the Prima Official Strategy Guide and lots of other 
 inserts. The game (at the time of this certain publishing) was spread over 4 discs and it became 
 very annoying switching between them all. I minor quibble though.
  
  Overall, I highly recommend Myst III, it's not just a game, it's a journey. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dan45066
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 18, 2005 7:54 pm PT
Review:  Exile picks up the torch where Riven started to slip. MYST III brings back that classic, non-linear 
 feel that MYST I so artfully created, and even brings to the table some pretty unique and tricky 
 puzzles. In MYST II, the player followed a pretty narrow path to the finish; there was hardly any 
 exploration of the new ages, except, of course, for Riven, and the story was a little thin. But 
 Exile walks up to the plate and hit a home-run in almost every department.
  
  The first thing players notice is the awesome full-angle camera rotation allowing, for the first 
 time, a good solid look at the stunning worlds that CYAN Worlds are so well known for. For about 
 the first hour or two, the game seems little more than a continuation of the feel that Riven created; 
 click your way to the waypoint while solving pretty linear puzzles and watch a movie-clip. But, 
 out of the blue, the game expands and you finally realize why the MYST series is so revolutionary.
 
  
  But, even though the gameplay is in the spirit of the original, the gamelength is not. This story 
 is so compelling, and the characters are so well personified that when all is said and done you're 
 left thinking, "wait, I'm not done here." So, even with its shortcomings, this game is a must-play 
 for both casual MYST players, and serious fans of the franchise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dygel
Rating: 7.7
Date: Sep 13, 2005 4:31 pm PT
Review:  I started Myst III: Exile earlier today and I've finished it already. While I am, certainly, good 
 at this sort of thing, I did have the advantage of having played this one before.
  
  When it was a much newer title, I stole liberated stole this game so that I could try it out. I 
 was much less certain about how I felt about the series then, since my only real experience with 
 it had been watching [info] meekay play it back in the day. He wasn't fond. So I tried it out and 
 I really got sucked into it. It wasn't until I was watching very late game plot sequences that 
 I said to myself, "Hmm, maybe I should stop playing, since I am only testing this out." And so 
 I did. Having played through it today, it occurs to me that I did all of it except the very last 
 couple of actions back then. Not that it matters much. Somehow, I was missing a crucial cinematic, 
 since it was causing a system freeze consistently; I wouldn't have realized what to do anyway.
 
  
  Of the three, Exile certainly has the most visual and usability polish, but that's not without 
 its drawbacks. As I mentioned earlier, I prefer the 360 navigation mode. However, that makes getting 
 through the age of Edanna a pain. Edanna is a nature-based Age, and so its paths are very twisty 
 and wild. It's very easy to lose your bearing, even when you've crossed over a pathway five of 
 six times already. Edanna is definitely my least favourite Age in the game for exactly this reason. 
 On the other hand Amateria is my favourite Age in the game because the entire Age is a gigantic 
 marble track, which you will eventually ride yourself.
  
  This one is absolutely the easiest title that I've played, to boot. If you're curious about the 
 Myst series and want to get your feet wet without plunging into the deep end, this is a good place 
 to start. It wasn't produced by the Miller brothers. It was produced by Presto Studios and published 
 by Ubi Soft. They did a decent job, but even without knowing this background information, you can 
 get the sense that it's not crafted by the same hands. You can see it just by looking at my notes 
 for this game. I have three pages in my notebook of symbols, mathematics, and markings. My Riven 
 notes are mostly text with the occasional cryptological analysis and map cross-referencing. The 
 depth of research one has to put into Riven is just much deeper. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kanderstag
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 9, 2004 6:48 am PT
Review:  You'll definitely notice a difference from Revelation. After all, this game is over three years 
 old now. Given that age, it was surprising to me how fun and vibrant the game was. If they had 
 released this game in 2004 instead of 2001, it would still be a good buy. 
  I found the Exile puzzles to be more logical to work through than Revelation, for the most part. 
 There were a few hum-dingers in there that really cooked my noodle, but at least I was able to 
 work through the majority on my own, which was satisfying. The graphics are pretty good, they did 
 an excellent job with the story line and the acting. The various endings were pretty funny too. 
 This is a worthy addition to the Revelation set now being sold. If you do buy Revelation, play 
 this one first as it will help tune you in to how these folks think. As well, you'll appreciate 
 the story line more, and the upgrades to gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TazmanianD
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 16, 2004 6:12 am PT
Review:  Myst III, while not perfect, is an awesome game. If you enjoyed the previous Myst games because 
 of their unbelievable images, then Myst III will definitely satisfy you.
  
  Myst III continues with the tradition of relatively static images being displayed as opposed to 
 a fully 3d environment through which you can move. The different this time though is instead of 
 looking a sequences of flat images, you are placed in the center of images that are arranged in 
 a sphere around you. You can freely rotate your head in any direction in 360 degrees, including 
 up and down. This gives you a much stronger sense of being in the world than a single flat image.
 
  
  The graphics in the game are once again stunning. The exotic world, the beautiful colors are all 
 what you'd expect from a Myst game.
  
  The sound is also oustanding. I bought the collector's edition which came with the CD soundtrack. 
 I listen to this soundtrack on a regular basis and is one of my favoritate CDs.
  
  The gameplay is not much different that the previous Myst games although it is more like Myst than 
 Riven. The puzzles are more concentrated and don't necessarily fit into the world as a whole. They 
 are also (and intentionally) more puzzlish than something you might actually find in a real (or 
 Myst) world. I unfortunately found them to be a bit too easy for my taste. I got stuck only once 
 during the game and any adventure game that doesn't get you stuck a couple of times is too easy 
 in my book.
  
  The biggest drawback to this game is that it is far too short. I finished the game in about 15 
 hours of gameplay time. It was great for what was there, but there wasn't a great deal of it. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
