-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Mysterious Journey II
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/schizm2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 17, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.1
Critic Score: 6.7, 18 Review (s)
User Score: 6.8, 64 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: The Adventure Company
Developer: Detallion S. C.
Genre: Sci-Fi Adventure
Date:     Nov 25, 2003
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Mysterious Journey II is filled with lots of arbitrary, convoluted, brutally tough puzzles. In fact, 
 you could say this is really a puzzle game masquerading as an adventure game. 

  The adventure game genre progresses slowly, but recent games like Syberia and Broken Sword: The 
 Sleeping Dragon have been helping it catch up with the times and attract new fans by offering deeper 
 storytelling, richer settings, more logical puzzles, and added immersion. From that perspective, 
 Detalion's latest game, Mysterious Journey II, is a step backward for the genre. This game is just 
 another Myst clone, but without the saving graces of the Myst series. Mysterious Journey II lacks 
 the artistic finesse of the best Myst games and suffers from a weak story and setting. It's filled 
 with lots of arbitrary, convoluted, brutally tough puzzles, though. In fact, you could say this 
 is really a puzzle game masquerading as an adventure game.  

          Puzzles, such as this bridge, tend to reappear in different forms.     

  In this sequel 
 to 2001's Schizm, your character, Sen, awakens from cryogenic stasis aboard a dilapidated space 
 station. A holographic recording reveals to the amnesiac Sen that he has been in a deep sleep for 
 214 years as punishment for supposedly betraying his people and destroying most of his world. Sen 
 also learns that it's only a matter of days before the station's orbit decays, sending it crashing 
 to the planet below. With that out of the way, the adventure -- using the term loosely -- begins. Sen 
 heads down to the planet to find out just what he supposedly did to cause so much trouble.  

  From the get-go, you know this game is going to be problematic. The improbably bland, generic 
 title says a lot: You'll indeed spend time journeying about the game's 3D world, but why you'd 
 want to do that remains mysterious. Good adventure games immerse you in richly imagined settings 
 and make you feel like you're really getting somewhere as you explore them. They let you unravel 
 intriguing stories and meet memorable characters. Mysterious Journey II offers almost none of that. 
 Using a first-person perspective, you wander through deserted, lonely locales, just like in the 
 Myst games. The story is told only by occasionally switching to clumsy third-person cutscenes. 
 You don't fully take part in the story but merely watch bits of it from time to time.  

  The story isn't worth your time, anyway. Unlike in so many games, the story here was penned by 
 a professional author, science fiction writer Terry Dowling. Ironically enough, you wouldn't guess 
 that by playing the game. If Mysterious Journey II were a movie, it would be right at home on  
 Mystery Science Theater 3000 . The game's story is filled with clichs, clumsy transitions 
 and explanations, and general nonsense -- not to mention a laughable, trite ending. For example, 
 the whole game is centered on the idea of two warring factions, one that puts its stock in high 
 technology and futuristic weapons and another that puts its faith in nature and advanced mental 
 powers. Could a science fiction premise be more threadbare? An author could make something of that 
 tired idea, but with such weak, perfunctory stabs at character building and dialogue here, things 
 never gel. In fact, the dialogue can be a hoot, like when a young man named Jimi from the technological 
 faction announces to Sen in a gee-whiz tone that he's been promoted to team leader (whatever that 
 is) . It sounds for all the world like your cousin Jimmy announcing he's been promoted to assistant 
 manager at Wal-Mart. Middling to awful voice acting makes it all worse.  

          You want complexity? You got it.     

  Despite fumbled attempts at storytelling during 
 the cutscenes, the real raison d'tre of Mysterious Journey II is merely to pit you against 
 a demoralizing string of puzzles. These puzzles reveal a laundry list of game design flaws. They 
 tend to be arbitrary, gratuitous, and overly elaborate. Rube Goldberg would beam with admiration -- and 
 then throw himself off a bridge in despair if he actually tried the puzzles himself. Early on, 
 for example, you need to open a door to get to a shuttle. Nearby, you find a huge hall filled with 
 things that look something like giant alien asparagus tips. What on earth are they? Why are they 
 even there? What do you do with them? As you twirl them around to make laser beams reorient themselves 
 (again, you have to ask why) , you get no feedback on whether your manipulations are helping or 
 hindering.  

  On top of that, the puzzles don't help flesh out or reveal the gameworld and characters enough; 
 rather, it feels like the world was built around the puzzles. The puzzles can require you to make 
 tedious treks back and forth to see what effect all your lever-pulling and button-pressing are 
 having. They tend to repeat themselves, too: How many times should anyone have to align bridge 
 segments by pressing a slew of buttons? (Plus, one puzzle, where you move a boat through a water 
 maze using the equivalent of giant fans, is nearly identical to a puzzle in the recent Traitors 
 Gate 2.) The puzzles don't make you feel like you're getting anywhere or accomplishing anything 
 important, but rather they make you feel like you're on some punishing puzzle treadmill lifted 
 from Dante's  Inferno .     

  Worst of all, these challenges can be brutally hard, and they lack any difficulty options or hints. 
 It feels as if this game were designed by some sadistic math professor who's determined to see 
 you fail your final exam. In fact, you'll actually have to do a fair amount of math to complete 
 this game, like converting numbers between base 10 and base 4-- using alien numerals. That might 
 be fun if you're a math student, but for most gamers, even hardcore adventure game fans, that's 
 just a ludicrous thing to ask.  

          Pretty vistas like these don't make up for all the game's shortcomings.     

  On the 
 bright side, the interface is straightforward enough. You simply move about using standard WASD/mouselook 
 shooter-style controls. You can also jump, but only in theory. It literally looks like you're moving 
 only an inch or two off the ground when you press the button, so you can't actually jump over anything. 
 This highlights the silly arbitrariness of the game. In one puzzle, you need to properly align 
 bridge segments vertically before you can cross them. If you align them all with each other, yet 
 they remain a few inches higher than the height required by the "proper" solution, you can't simply 
 jump up a couple of inches to cross them. On top of that, you'll frequently find yourself getting 
 snagged on railings, rock walls, and other objects, which becomes just another thorn in your side 
 as you play the game. On the bright side, manipulating puzzle objects is simple, requiring just 
 one universal button.  

  Mysterious Journey II is powered by the Jupiter engine used in Monolith's No One Lives Forever 
 2 and Tron 2.0. This means the graphics rise far above those in many adventure games on a technical 
 level, but where artistry is concerned, things aren't so rosy. The game clearly draws its inspiration 
 from the Myst series, known for its surreal, otherworldly locales. At their best, the Myst games 
 tie the locales and puzzles together thematically, lending them coherence and internal logic and 
 linking them to the series' mythology. Just as importantly, the locales of Myst III, for example, 
 create a strong sense of place -- however alien a place -- while also boasting a high level of artistry 
 that makes the game fun to simply look at in its own right. Not so in Mysterious Journey II. The 
 game certainly boasts a few pretty scenes and some dramatic vistas, but they feel randomly thrown 
 into the game. The game makes a fetish out of oddity for its own sake. Aboard the space station 
 at the beginning of the game, you abruptly go from what looks like a generic Unreal Tournament 
 level to some kind of cut-rate copy of H. R. Giger's designs for  Alien . Walls are now covered 
 in weird secretions, and everything has a vaguely organic look. Why? Who knows. Down on the planet 
 below, you find appropriately alien-looking flora but also bizarre tops spinning around in the 
 sky for no obvious reason.  

  To some extent, you can live with that sort of artistic arbitrariness by simply ignoring the visuals 
 and concentrating on the puzzles. But then another cutscene comes along to remind you how poor 
 the art direction of the game is. Imagine the silliest, cheapest-looking costumes from the original 
  Star Trek  TV series. Then imagine something even sillier and cheaper, and you get the outfits 
 the characters wear in Mysterious Journey II. One character literally looks like she's wearing 
 a piece of pottery on her head, and Sen runs around in a bright blue jumpsuit with a floppy Renaissance-style 
 hat. It's really hard not to laugh. If that weren't bad enough, a graphics glitch pops up from 
 time to time to turn part of the scenery pure gray, and characters briefly pop in and out of existence 
 during the cutscenes.  

          It's hard not to laugh at scenes like this.     

  The game's audio fares no better. Along with the sloppy voice acting, the bland ambient score gives 
 elevator music a good name. It also cuts in and out or skips from time to time. Sound effects are 
 minimal and mostly ineffective. You don't even hear any footsteps as Sen walks.  

  If you simply want to match wits with a game for the sake of it, you may find some pleasure in 
 the vicious challenges of Mysterious Journey II. And for all the puzzles' frustrations, you have 
 to admit that their complexity at least took some real thought on the part of the designers. If, 
 though, you like your adventure game puzzles to make common sense, offer reasonable challenges, 
 and be cleverly integrated into the story and gameworld, you'll likely hate this game. Either way, 
 there's no actual sense of adventure here, and isn't that what an adventure game is supposed to 
 offer?     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: TazmanianD
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jan 31, 2005 5:32 am PT
Review:  I am a big fan of the adventure game genre and I really enjoyed playing the original Mysterious 
 Journey (Schizm) . I highly recommend that game to any hardcore adventure game fan (you must play 
 the DVD version though) .
  
  If you enjoyed the really like random puzzles, original game and like adventure games, you may 
 find some fun in this game. Otherwise, forget it. This game has almost nothing in common with its 
 predecessor.
  
  Unlike the original, this game is a real-time rendered 3d environment. The graphics are really 
 smooth but the environment just isn't compelling. The game leads you around in a very linear fashion 
 from one small area to the next and forces you to solve a puzzle that usually doesn't fit into 
 the environment at all. Almost every puzzle in the game is a puzzle to unlock a door and almost 
 every puzzle involves a high level of mathematical manipulation. Some even require you to remember 
 symbols from previous elements in the game.
  
  The story is not terribly interesting and the ending of the game is abrupt and not rewarding. I 
 have to say that this game gets the lowest rating I've ever given a game. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
