-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Myth: The Fallen Lords
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/myththefallenlords/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 11, 1997
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.9
Critic Score: 8.1, 4 Review (s)
User Score: 8.6, 324 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Bungie Software
Genre: Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Oct 31, 1997

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This fantasy game unfolds around a richly woven plot, involving an epic struggle between the undead 
 and spirit forces of Dark and the living forces of Light. 

 The initial release of Bungie's Myth: The Fallen Lords was almost the ideal real-time strategy game. 
 Standing between Myth and gaming perfection were an absurd level of difficulty, a poorly implemented 
 unit-facing command, and a handful of nitpicky flaws. Fortunately, the recently released 1.1 patch 
 addresses the difficulty and interface issues. A few of the minor problems remain, but Myth can 
 now rightfully claim its place among the best strategy games on the market.  

 This fantasy game unfolds around a richly woven plot, involving an epic struggle between the undead 
 and spirit forces of Dark and the living forces of Light. Balor and the Fallen Lords lead the vast 
 armies of the Dark against you, while you must lead the outnumbered Light forces in a desperate, 
 last-ditch campaign of resistance.   

 Each of the 25 scenarios begins with a well-written narrative that keeps you apprised of the war 
 effort. Unfortunately - and this is one of those nitpicky carryovers - these narratives rarely 
 mention the specific goals of the upcoming scenario. Instead, you're usually forced to complete 
 each level through trial and error. In the original release, this was a significant problem because 
 the game was incredibly difficult even on the lowest of five difficulty settings. With version 
 1.1, however, the lowest two settings are more forgiving and you should be able to bull your way 
 through even the toughest scenarios in two or three tries. It's still hard, but at least now the 
 game won't drive you to violent fits of frustration.  

 Despite the less-than-obvious mission goals, most levels are well designed and the overall mix of 
 objectives is nicely varied. You'll find yourself fighting a simple skirmish on one level, ambushing 
 100 undead archers on another, and finding ways to make the bad guys fight amongst themselves on 
 another. You'll even get the chance to call in some dwarven paratroopers on one unforgettable mission. 
   

 Your troops include basic foot soldiers, archers, explosive-throwing dwarves, and berserks that 
 look and sound like they came right out of Braveheart. The enemy has units that more or less match 
 up with your own, plus a few more powerful types (such as the quick and brutal Trow and the lightning-hurling 
 Fetch) to keep you on your toes. Commanding your troops in Myth is similar to most other real-time 
 strategy games, except that you can organize them into groups and align them into ten different 
 formations. Another one of the failings of the original release, the unintuitive "gesture click" 
 command, has been corrected in the 1.1 patch. Instead of the ridiculous flick-of-the-wrist method 
 originally required to turn your troops, the game now uses a simple, mouse-driven arrow similar 
 to the system employed by Sid Meier's Gettysburg! - a significant improvement. Graphically, Myth 
 is still one of the most impressive games you'll see this year. And along with Wing Commander Prophecy, 
 it is one of the best reasons yet to own a 3Dfx board (the patch also adds support for Rendition 
 cards) . The battlefields are marvelously rendered in true 3D, with beautiful terrain that will 
 see you battling over rolling hills, canyons, and rivers. The unit art and animation are excellent, 
 including some spectacular deaths (killing a Fetch is especially satisfying) . The game also features 
 some amazing battlefield scarring and animated carnage (little heads and limbs flying everywhere) , 
 as well as lots and lots of blood. Rounding out the breakthrough graphics engine are impressive 
 weather effects, an accurate physics model, and dynamic lighting. The view controls have been enhanced 
 so that you can now zoom out much farther to get a better, bird's-eye view of the battle. You can 
 also zoom in close enough to see the whites (or the reds) of those undead eyes.  

 The game offers a very good musical score but oddly plays no music during battles. This may be to 
 ensure that you hear all of the game's killer sound effects. Your troops will shout out in triumph 
 when they vanquish a foe or complain when they take a friendly-fire hit (which happens a lot) . 
 It can be damn frustrating to see your Dwarves annihilate half of your own troops with an errant 
 grenade, but it is hilarious to hear them yell "My mistake!" or (better yet) "Oops" after doing 
 so. Also, you won't soon forget the ominous thump-thump-thump sound of an approaching enemy Trow. 
 The game also features some wonderfully animated, cartoon-style cutscenes. They're very nice to 
 look at, but it seems a shame that most are too short and cryptic to really convey much useful 
 information.   

 Myth's multiplayer options abound and include support for up to 16 players over TCP/IP or AppleTalk. 
 Internet play is available over Bungie's free Bungie. net servers and TEN. Performance was fairly 
 smooth over Bungie. net, with a little lag creeping in from time to time over a 56K connection. 
 The style of play on Bungie. net can be very different from the single-player game. This is especially 
 true of the body count mode, which plays more like Quake than any strategy game I've ever seen 
 (except maybe Uprising) . Tactics count for little in this mode, so you can forget about careful 
 unit placement and formations. If you're a big fan of the game's tactical model, your best bet 
 is to try one of the other - far more interesting and enjoyable - modes, including king of the 
 hill, steal the bacon, and co-op missions against the computer. The 1.1 patch adds a number of 
 subtle improvements to Bungie. net, including the option to play unranked games on the service (previously, 
 you were assigned a ranking based on the results of all your games) . When you combine the excellent 
 multiplayer support, the great graphics, and the dramatic gameplay improvements offered by the 
 1.1 patch, you get a truly remarkable real-time strategy game. If you've been playing Myth but 
 have been frustrated by the difficulty, make sure you get the patch. If you haven't yet tried the 
 game, now is definitely the time to do so.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (6 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: SirGalaz
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 24, 2008 8:02 am PT
Review:  First of all, sorry for my terrible English.
  
  Where to start? Myth the Fallen Lords is not only a classic strategy game. It was and it still 
 is a very inmersive, addictive and even fun adventure.
  Innovative from every point of view, it even has features unseen in any other games to the date.
 
  
  It was one of the first games played in a 3D world, although the units were not build in 3D, but 
 still had a beautiful design. Almost everything in the battlefield interacts and interferes with 
 the action. The arrows are stopped by trees, buildings and walls, the explosions move another objects, 
 from stones to pieces of dead bodies. When you blow up an enemy, pieces of his body fly around, 
 leaving a trail of blood. But even after they are dead, those bodies can still be moved by other 
 explosions.
  
  Another great thing that I haven't seen in any other game is that your soldiers only respond to 
 enemies that they are seeing. If your archers are looking in one direction, they won't notice that 
 there is an ugly and dangerous wight behind them, until it's too late. So you have to be alert 
 and check where are your soldiers looking.
  
  Something I really enjoyed from Myth is that every man in your force is a single and unique character, 
 with his own name and experience (maybe there are not too many names, and sometimes you have two 
 warriors named the same) . Your troops gain experience with each monster they kill, but also with 
 each level they survive, and that experience remains for the next battle. You even get to respect 
 your man, and every casualty is something terrible. The experience they gain make them more accurate 
 (in the case of the archers and dwarves) and more skilled in fighting. The warriors for example 
 can block enemy's attacks with their shields.
  
  The sound effects are really cool, not only the explosions, swords hits, and magic spells, but 
 also the environmental sounds: birds singing, the river running, the cold winter on the frozen 
 paths, flies and bugs in the swamps, and that horrible gate-to-hell sound that comes out from the 
 great devoid. Also, the comments that your soldiers make are very nice and fun. From the "Yeah!" 
 or the "That was mine!" when they kill a monster, to the "Sorry" or the "Oops!", when they accidentally 
 hit one of your own.
  
  The game has a beautiful music, played in the main menu, cut scenes and after each battle. However, 
 there is no background music during the battles, maybe to remark the excellent ambient and fighting 
 sound effects. There are also awesome artworks, a different one after each of the levels, and it 
 changes depending if you win or lose.
  
  Concluding, an epic and inmersive story in a whole original world, full of places and rare creatures, 
 accompanied with great music, and played with a very innovative way of fighting and ordering your 
 troops, makes Myth: the Fallen Lords one of the best strategy games ever, a "must" for every lover 
 of this type of games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jordash01
Rating: 10
Date: May 10, 2008 2:17 am PT
Review:  The first in a truly unique and innovative series of games created by a pre-Microsoft Bungie, Myth: 
 The Fallen Lords boasts more than impressive visuals (for 1997) , story, gameplay, sound, music, 
 and voice acting.
  
  The game spells a timeless tale of good versus evil; mankind is on the brink of extinction and 
 must battle the hordes of dark undead lords and minions. The story unfolds through a narrator writing 
 journal entries about his experiences through the war in what is probably one of the finest pieces 
 of voice acting in a game to date. The game takes you on the truly epic journey of humanity and 
 its allies in their struggle to defeat the forces of evil.
  
  Complementing the fine narrative is the gameplay. Unlike traditional strategy games you're given 
 only a handful of units to work with for each level and you rarely receive reinforcements - you 
 have to work with what you get which adds to the difficulty of already complex missions. Units 
 become more powerful as they gain experience from slaying foes and transfer from level to level, 
 which is important because as you reach the later stages of the game you are more often than not 
 given insufficient men to complete the tasks at hand, relying on your most experienced units to 
 get you through the day. One of the more interesting side effects of this system is that you'll 
 often find yourself struggling to keep as many people alive as possible so you aren't stuck with 
 weaker replacements later on. Formations and directional unit facing also play a key part in the 
 gameplay and add another level of depth to the genre.
  
  The game boasts 2D unit sprites in complex (for 1997) 3D scarrable terrain featuring full physics 
 and weather. Explosions can knock away arrows in mid flight, rain will put out dwarven molotov 
 cocktails and fires, and as a whole the gameplay is brutal and bloody, with men and monsters hacking 
 each other to pieces in violent battles. Trails of blood and gore follow your skirmishes, really 
 adding to the immersion the game provides. The lack of music during the missions may seem an odd 
 choice at first, but it allows the game to focus on the excellent sound effects and really adds 
 to the desperate atmosphere. The camera controls take some getting used to at first - especially 
 compared to other strategy games - but after some time and experimenting you'll find that they 
 really work quite well.
  
  Overall this has to be one of my favorite strategy games, topped only by the sequel Myth II: Soulblighter 
 (and the immortal Starcraft and its expansion) . Currently it's possible to play the entire Myth: 
 The Fallen Lords as a gameplay mod for Soulblighter, which is supported by Windows XP and Vista 
 with the latest community patch. If strategy games are for you definitely give this a look, you 
 won't regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Solid_Alexei
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 29, 2006 2:10 am PT
Review:  Myth: The Fallen Lords is the first chapter of the Myth series  one of the greatest RTS ever made. 
 The story: The games story is perhaps its greatest point. Its deep and very interesting. There 
 is plenty of background that could easily be feet into one huge book. The presentation is superb 
 with high quality dialog.
  
  The Sound: Amazing music composed is a trademark of all three Myth games. Rich, powerful and emotional. 
 Tracks are highly different from each other that add a great variation to every mission. The narration 
 before and after the missions is superb.
  
  The Graphics: Back then the game was looking amazing! Even now with the new patch and added OpenGL 
 support it can look beautiful. Also one of the main specialties is extreme gore level. Combined 
 with good physics the battlefields looks amazing with chunks of flesh and armor lying around in 
 rivers of blood.
  
  The gameplay: It can be difficult at a time but after you mastered the controls it flows smoothly 
 and with amazing interest. The missions are very different from each other and can be completed 
 using alternative routs. Overall the game is an instant masterpiece that started the Myth saga 
 spanning over 8 years of development and success. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TMZ41486
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 4, 2006 1:51 pm PT
Review:  First off this game is great. It really brings the real time strategy game genre some life. This 
 game is harder to play than the Warcrafts and C&Cs simply because you cannot just build up an army 
 and win by brute force. You must carefully plan your strategies and tactics and unleash them on 
 the undead. Sure fighting the undead sounds corny and all, but trust me on this one it is anything 
 but corny. By today's standards the gameplay and graphics are not great but they are still good. 
 The camera view gets complicated at times, but once you learn how to control that you will be golden. 
 I highly recommend picking this and the rest of the myth series up. You can get 3 myth games in 
 one if you buy "Myth: The Total Codex". To date I have yet to play Myth 3, but im sure its ok.. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rrobito
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 6, 2005 6:35 am PT
Review:  Myth The Fallen Lords is an amazing game, not only for today standards. 8 years ago it set a new 
 standard in RTS gaming. It is fully 3D, which at first makes it a little hard for new players but 
 adds a lot to gameplay. Then there is a real world physics, which makes arrows fly further from 
 higher ground or blown away by wind.... The story is so compelling that you dont want to stop the 
 game until you finish it. The music is excellent and the game even has its own soundtrack! The 
 audio is great, especially the comments of the dwarfs.. Myth can be a very bloody game, leaving 
 dozens of limbs and corpses on the ground. But it is also very fun to see how stuff explodes... 
 If you dont own this game, go and buy it, especially since it is so cheap by now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alvarinho
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 23, 2005 10:10 am PT
Review:  Its been eight years and this game is better than most of the RTS offerings of 2005 - dare i say 
 all? With good graphics, amazing sound, solid gameplay and great story and characters (i really 
 felt sorrry for the narrator in the last level) , its a pitty that Halo is such a blockbuster, 
 since Bungie clearly knows how to do a RTS like the best. Since this game is so cheap nowadays 
 you just cant miss it, even if just for the singleplayer experience. A classic and if you excuse 
 me ill have to go and play Myth II. Just cant wait to start that one! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
