-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Myth II: Soulblighter
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/myth2soulblighter/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 30, 1998
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9.3
Critic Score: 8.7, 19 Review (s)
User Score: 8.8, 479 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Bungie Software
Genre: Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Nov 30, 1998

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Myth II is about as good as a computer game can possibly be. 

 It would have been easy for Bungie to just leave things alone after Myth: The Fallen Lords. The 
 game was a huge hit, met with critical acclaim at nearly every turn, and continues to be one of 
 the most popular multiplayer games on the Internet. But thankfully for gamers, Bungie went back 
 to the drawing board to craft a bigger, better Myth. Thus was born Myth II: Soulblighter, a game 
 with the untainted heart and soul of its predecessor, along with slicker graphics, better gameplay, 
 enhanced multiplayer options, a vastly improved interface, and a pair of powerful editing tools. 
 Basically, Bungie left no stone unturned in its quest to improve an already solid product. As a 
 result, Myth II is about as good as a computer game can possibly be.  

 The game takes players to a time 60 years after the events of the original Myth, when peace reigns 
 and the once busy Legion has very little to worry about. But this pleasant state of affairs is 
 about to change. Responding to reports of brigands terrorizing a small village, a small group of 
 warriors stumbles across a much bigger problem: Undead creatures are popping up all over and, even 
 worse, the Fallen Lord named Soulblighter is behind it all.  

 The single-player campaign comprises 25 missions, each of which is remarkably well designed and 
 - on the harder difficulty levels especially - enormously challenging. Scenarios range from simple 
 skirmishes and NPC escorts to the infiltration of a massive keep and even some indoor missions. 
 Fans of the original game's Shadow of the Mountain level will love Myth II's The Great Library 
 and Redemption levels, along with a number of other great defensive missions. The coolest (and 
 creepiest) level in the game is one in which you must make your way through a haunted dungeon, 
 where friendly and hostile ghosts appear and disappear without warning. One of the other memorable 
 missions sees you wading ashore to silence the cannons of a nearby keep, all while hordes of Soulless 
 rain their spears down on you. Another has you and your troops racing for the last bridge to safety, 
 which you must then destroy to keep your pursuing enemy at bay.  

 Bridge? Keep? Yes, Myth II makes extensive use of large buildings and interactive terrain to liven 
 up the 3D battlefield. During the game, you'll run across massive fortifications, destructible 
 bridges, a working drawbridge, a ship, a windmill, and a slew of other eye-popping items. The enhanced 
 3D engine also supports a number of other new features, colored lighting and shadows, and an underlying 
 terrain mesh that's four times finer than the one used by Myth. The result is a smoother-looking 
 game with more realistic settings.  

 Other, more subtle features like the increased ambient life also help to create a more realistic 
 environment. Chickens peck around in the villages, deer bound through the forest, and various birds 
 soar overhead on most maps. Of course, you're not limited to looking at these creatures, you can 
 interact with them as well (meaning that you can blow up most of them) . The ambient sounds are 
 also enhanced in Myth II. Between the sounds of wildlife in the background and Dwarven bottles 
 exploding, there was never a moment of silence in the game. If you listen carefully, you'll even 
 hear some really funny chatter among your human enemies (the whole bit about the world's biggest 
 turnip had me cracking up) . The music that plays during the great narrative premission screens 
 is outstanding, but I never noticed any music at all during the missions. This was a little disappointing, 
 but I can't say that it really detracted much from the gameplay.  

 Although the animated cutscenes in Myth looked good, they were too brief and cryptic to convey much 
 of a story. The Bungie developers must have agreed, because they went out and hired a new animation 
 studio to do the Myth II cinematics. The results are astounding. The cutscenes are still brief, 
 but they look fantastic, and you can always tell what the heck is happening - or at least what 
 is being implied.  

 As with most sequels, Myth II is chock full of new units on both sides of the battlefield. Dwarven 
 mortars, Samurai-like Heron Guards, and friendly Trow will all chip in for your cause. There are 
 no forest giants this time around, but believe me, the Trow more than make up for that loss. The 
 rest of your forces comprises the familiar warriors, berserkers, and dwarves. The archers are still 
 there also, but they now have the added (and extremely cool) ability to shoot fire arrows that 
 ignite the countryside where they land. Soulblighter's forces include familiar foes like the Thrall, 
 Soulless, Ghol, and Fetch. A few new and dangerous enemies have joined the ranks as well, including 
 the werewolf-like Myrkridia, the fireball-hurling warlock, the pig-like Maul, and the black-armored 
 Stygian Knights.  

 The AI and pathfinding for all units has been improved, so your troops don't mill about endlessly 
 when they can't reach their initial destinations. There are some glitches with Myth II's pathfinding, 
 such as the ludicrous conga line your warriors form while chasing down an enemy unit, but for the 
 most part, units move and behave much more intelligently than in Myth.  

 Myth II's interface and controls are also more intelligent than those we saw in the original Myth. 
 Players who found the keyboard camera controls confusing in Myth can now move and rotate the camera 
 angle simply by moving the mouse. I personally found this more confusing than the old method (which 
 you can still use) , but there are undoubtedly some gamers who will welcome the mouse option. A 
 handy control bar now runs alongside the bottom of the screen, providing easy access to commonly 
 used commands and unit formations. Also, you can tell a unit's health status simply by passing 
 the mouse over it. Formation facing is much, much simpler than that clunky "gesture click" system 
 - you can either turn your troops with the left and right arrow keys, or hold the mouse button 
 to turn your troops at will (an arrow appears on the screen to help you line up the troops properly) . 
 Perhaps the biggest interface improvement, however, is the addition of well-written, easily understood 
 mission objectives at the beginning of each and every mission. No more stumbling around the woods 
 looking for the mystery goal - all your objectives are clearly spelled out, plus you can even look 
 over a few mission-specific tips to help get you through each level.  

 For those who found some of the levels in the original game far too difficult, Myth II features 
 a vastly improved set of difficulty levels. These are well stepped and let gamers of any talent 
 and interest level jump in and enjoy the world of Myth II. Kudos to Bungie for making the game 
 so approachable for novice players without sacrificing the challenge hard-core gamers crave (and 
 those higher difficulty settings can be pretty damn hard) .  

 Hard-core Myth fans will also appreciate the improved multiplayer support in Myth II. The game offers 
 a ton of new multiplayer features (such as player alliances) and scenarios (several of which involve 
 the aforementioned ambient life in strange and unusual roles) . Bungie. net has also been updated, 
 and the performance of games over Bungie's free service seems faster and more reliable in general. 

 Rounding out this epic game are two of the tools Bungie used to create the game. Fear and Loathing 
 are powerful editors that players can use to craft their own missions and maps. Though you'll need 
 some practice to master these complex utilities, they can be used to create and modify Myth II 
 levels in just about any way imaginable. These tools should certainly prove popular to the thousands 
 of devoted Bungie. net users, as the service lets players easily exchange custom maps.  

 Myth II does have a few minor problems, but nothing that detracts seriously from the overall gameplay. 
 An automatic save between missions would be a welcome addition. This is a common enough option 
 in most strategy games and would eliminate the need to save your game at the beginning (or end) 
 of every mission. Also, though a fairly thorough briefing prefaces each mission, it would be nice 
 to get at least a hint of which direction you should move on some missions. The Deceiver was a 
 particularly confusing level, with bad guys on all sides, and the proper path was difficult to 
 spot. Lastly, the game did crash a few times while loading up a new level, but infrequently.  

 
 Bungie basically improved all the good features in Myth; added a number of gameplay, multiplayer, 
 and graphical enhancements; and then threw in some slick and powerful editing tools to boot. The 
 end result is one of the best games to be released this year, and one that should easily find a 
 home in any serious gamer's library.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (9 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Solid_Alexei
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 29, 2006 2:25 am PT
Review:  Myth 2: Soulblighter is the second game in the Myth saga and continues where the first game left. 
 The game features better graphics, more difficult but awarding gameplay and superb story that is 
 a trademark of the Myth games.
  
  The story: The narration and written dialog are amazingly done with rich text and interesting storyline 
 that capture your imagination fully. The back story and description of everything in the game could 
 easily be fit into one huge book. The Myth saga is a vast masterpiece that took more then 8 years 
 to develop.
  
  The Sound: The sound quality hasnt changed since the first game. It still features the same great 
 quality of dialog and sound effects. Explosion, war cries, amazingly written music all of it is 
 still there for you to enjoy.
  
  The Graphics: The graphics are slightly improved since the first game but they are still using 
 sprites for character render on the fully 3D landscape. Back then the game looked amazing with 
 extreme amount of gore and special effects. Even now with OpenGL support you can squeeze a good 
 level of details with fog and lightning but for some players it could look old aged.
  
  The gameplay: Its difficult, demanding but richly rewarded. The type is still the wargame RTS 
 without building. You can place your units in formations and use the 3D terrain to your advantage. 
 The game featuring great physics engine that you can use to your advantage (high ground for archers, 
 hiding in forest etc.) The weather conditions on the battlefield also affect your gameplay like 
 for example rain extinguishes fire arrows or Molotov cocktail bombs. Overall the second Myth game 
 combines everything the first game was full of and adds a lot more which making it one of the greatest 
 RTS games ever made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raskolnikov_usa
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 10, 2006 10:39 pm PT
Review:  I was a budding teenager when I first spotted this one in the game store, with a modest amount 
 of wrinkled and faded currency in my possesion I picked this title out among many others that tempted 
 me. 
  
  At first I expected warcraft 2, which was really all I knew about pc games, instead I got something 
 a bit different.
  
  I'll spare the gaming details and deliver the bulk of my experience by rating the story as one 
 of the best in gaming, the characters (short lived as they may have been) were cool, and the gameplay 
 was brutal and grizzly on screen (which is another pinical of preformance this game brings to the 
 table) . 
  
  I wish they would come out with a newer version of myth, I suppose it would be entitled Myth 4, 
 followed by some story related subtitle.
  
  There is really nothing like it at the moment, and I'm not sure what I would compare it to. hmmm. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mr_nyuckles
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 17, 2006 9:43 pm PT
Review:  This game is wonderful. I loved playing this game's single and muti-player. I am almost tempted 
 to say that I liked the single player better than the multi-player.
  
  Sound: Wonderful. Voice acting. Brilliant. What can I say ill about this subject for this game? 
 I really can't say anything. The characters had great sayings, and the music emerced you into the 
 game. Wonderful.
  
  Graphics: Wonderous. If you had a computer that ran it with high quality, this game looked beautiful. 
 The characters were a bit pixaliated on my computer, but I'm sure that it would be better if someone 
 had a better graphics card.
  
  Plug-ins/Add ons/Mods. I had a WWII mod that we loved playing. I don't remember if it had a single 
 player attached to it, but the mod was wonderful. From Bazooka men and Shotgun soldiers, to Tanks 
 and regular grunts. This was excellent. The type of units you can use on the battlefield depends 
 on the battlefield and the type of scenario that you would play. All army types would have different 
 stratagies to them, making the playabilty all the better.
  
  The fact that you have to 'purchase' an army before you fight also addes a lot to the game. Your 
 enemy and you probably won't have the same build, and depending on who wins, the other can change 
 their build so that they have a better chance.
  
  The reply value, I'm trying to say, is wonderful. One of the best games I have played in a long 
 time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamesfreak4ever
Rating: 9
Date: May 7, 2006 9:02 am PT
Review:  The combat is unparalleled in a real-time strategy game, as Bungie's  
 attitude carries over in full force. You get a handful of units at the start of the quest, and 
 other than a few rare occasions where you find more, that's all you get. Don't get them all killed. 
 And definitely don't let them run down an embankment towards your foes only to have your dwarf 
 lob a cocktail in their midst. Your men won't like that very much, even if your dwarf will.
  
  It provides a challenge without being mind-numbingly hard, and is infinitely more strategic 
 than something like Starcraft, where the easiest way to get things accomplished is to amass a huge 
 force and just send them all in at once. If you try that in Myth, it may work, but that next battle 
 in the level will be even harder seeing as you stupidly sacrificed some of your soldiers on a frontal 
 assault.
  
  The graphics were good, even with all the units rendered as 2D sprites. The sound fit well, from 
 the narrator to unit cries and laughter, and music. It improved on the first game's unit management, 
 especially with regards to formations and pointing your troops in a certain direction. Outdoor 
 levels received buildings and interactive pieces, and indoor levels were added (though they're 
 arguably not as good as the wide-open outdoor levels) . There really isn't much one could complain 
 about Myth II, unless you're one of the folks who isn't completely happy unless you have a group 
 of resource gathering units milling around and a base to micromanage. Micromanaging units is so 
 much more fun, and causing complete bloody mayhem while doing so is even more fun. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JEOKU
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 31, 2006 9:51 pm PT
Review:  This game is deffinately not as well known as it deserves. It is a very good stategy game that 
 everyone should try. Not only does it have really good strategy element to it, but your heroes 
 get tougher as they get more kills, which adds an RPG element to it too. If you like strategy games, 
 then check it out. I beat the first Myth, and got through most of this one. I would of beat this 
 too if I didn't keep getting sidetracked, playing fun levels over and over. Myth has a good storyline, 
 great units, good fighting style, and an excellent tilt with the units getting better. This game 
 is also all about the casualties and accidentally killing your own units. Ironically, the key to 
 the game is pratically stopping friendly fire, and getting in position. You should definately try 
 this game!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ch33zWiz
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 23, 2006 12:53 am PT
Review:  And yay, on the 3rd day Bungie created Myth II. And yay, the Lord saw that it was good. So he played 
 it for 8 straight hours every day after school for 18 consecutive months, formed an online order, 
 and called it the Gods of Myth -  GoM. Yeah, that's me baby.
  
  Gameplay: Visuals were kickass enough for it's time. The missions were en-thrall-ing ... you'll 
 get that halfway back to your car. But the 2 best things about M2 : SB from my POV, IMHO as I'm 
 ROFL about something FUBAR... sorry, is: 
  
  1. The sound
  -From the battle weary old man voice in the narratives to the midget-like dwarf voices, the sounds 
 of bottles clanking, arrows firing, barrels exploding - everything transports your medieval psyche 
 into a world beyond this one. It's a submersive distraction from the fact that in reality, you 
 can't throw Molotov Cocktails into a group of walking warthogs with clubs and have instant pork 
 chops whenever you feel like it.
  
  2. The explosions
  -Hell, sometimes I start my own online game by myself simply to self detonate my wight in the middle 
 of my unsuspecting men. Watching the wight's demise ripple the ground and tear through defenses 
 is so close to nuking, it oughta leave radiation. Actually, now that I think about it, it does, 
 only it's purple and heals quickly. Nothing quite as enrapturing as an online newbie who travels 
 with his wight in the pack and is taken out by 1 ghol and a pus pack.
  
  Online Play: Oh, the glorious feeling of your men rejoicing with cheers in the middle of the Proving 
 Grounds after your Trow single handedly took out enemy troops from behind to win you the Body Count 
 melee. Or the smile that creeps onto your face when all the enemy has left is Soulless against 
 your Stygian Knights on Capture the Flag.
  
  The online play back in the day was a community that could have been it's own country it was so 
 mindboggling. Dozens of packed rooms running hundreds of battles as you climb up the ranks of tens 
 of thousands at Bungie. net
  
  But now, online play has been taken over by another website that makes you have an email other 
 than yahoo/hotmail/etc to join, and on good days maybe 2 rooms are half full of a handful of the 
 same people who only want to sit and talk about their ranks. Used to be your hosted game was overfilled 
 before you were comfortable. Now you fish for 15 minutes waiting for more than one person that 
 actually want to play the game.
  
  Myth II - you are the Kurt Cobain and the Tupac of the gaming community; died in the 90's but still 
 alive in our hearts.
  
  Myth2PaCobain 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stabby
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jul 4, 2007 4:57 pm PT
Review:  Myth II: Soulblighter is an unmissable ultimate gaming experience. Never before has a game packed 
 all the utilities required for a true game of the year! It has a in depth thrilling story line, 
 mass of challenging levels, all new and original units with unique powers, action packed epic battles 
 and skirmishes both single and multiplayer... not to mention this is one of the most gorey war 
 games ever to made to date. The game play, sound and graphics is much more supirior to its first 
 in series (great game though it may be to however) but not as much of a gripping plot but still 
 a good listen and read. The best thing, and most original is the fact you can blow your enemy into 
 a raining burning pile of blood soaked limbs and organs... THEN you can blow whats left of that 
 up again! And again and again and again... but in this sequel you can also now set the landscape 
 aflame and catapult blades and what you can see in order to thrash the pants off your foe... but 
 don't think its an easy ride! Oh no! This is one of the hardest games yet with grueling camera 
 controls yet they quickly become easy to use after a tutorial and 1 or 2 levels after that! The 
 fantasy units are ALL original, NO goblins or elves and despite what the wikepidia might tell you 
 it is NOTHING like lord of the rings even slightly! You are the warriors of the Cath Bruig to fight 
 wave after wave of zombies yearning to rip your guts out! Buy this now or you will have failed 
 yourself as war gamer! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TMZ41486
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 3, 2006 10:49 pm PT
Review:  It is highly recommended that you play the original Myth, before you play this one. It will help 
 you understand a lot more of the story. The graphics on this game are good for the year it came 
 out. It is a strategy game in its truest form. You must manage what you are given, for you will 
 rarely get reinforcements. Formations are key as is flanking and surrounding. This game is great, 
 it features many different types of units that are just so much fun. The map editor is also a great 
 feature, sure to create endless amounts of fun. I totally recommend picking this one up if you 
 like strategy and a good challenge. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJ_Lae
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 24, 2004 3:43 am PT
Review:  Is it wrong to enjoy raining blood and body parts on the heads of your enemies? Of course, in order 
 to do so you have to land one or two cocktails (or more... nothing wrong with excessive explosions) 
 in their midst and hope the fuse doesn't fail. Then you'll be rewarded with a handful of muffled 
 booms, cries of dismay, and several completely unlucky soldiers bursting at the seams and sending 
 their flesh and entrails spinning high into the air, bouncing down off their comrades' heads, and 
 staining the ground. And to accompany all the wanton carnage, you have your dwarven explosives 
 expert cackling to himself as he watches the enemies ripped into pieces by his handiwork. Then 
 tosses another one down the hill for an even more graphic display as the rest of the already weakened 
 soldiers fly apart and the body parts previously scattered are thrown clear by the second blast.
 
  
  Height is a key advantage, especially with dwarves. Why are dwarves mentioned so much? Well, because 
 they're the most useful character and result in the most glorious carnage. On one snow level your 
 forces are placed at the top of a gentle rise that leads down to a wide open plain. You could stay 
 there and fight a fair fight against the enemies, or you could run down a narrow valley to one 
 side, put your dwarves around and up at the top of the valley, line your archers near the end, 
 and cluster your soldiers right by the last walled part of the valley. The subsequent mess (and 
 it is a mess) is both glorious and satisfying, as wave after wave of enemies cram themselves into 
 the valley and are rewarded with dwarven molotov cocktails and the chance to paint the oh-so-white 
 snow red. By the time the assault has stopped (a few lucky ones might actually manage to make it 
 to your soldiers in time to be massacred lovingly by hand) the snowy valley is red with blood and 
 black with explosions, and weapons and pieces of armor are lying everywhere with only a few body 
 parts remaining... the series of explosions have done nothing but disintigrate them. Tips of the 
 higher cliff along one side will have red streaks from the occasional flying arm that struck it 
 and rolled down. And your dwarves will be even more psychotic than before, with dozens more messy 
 kills under their belt.
  
  The combat is unparalleled in a real-time strategy game, as Bungie's  
 attitude carries over in full force. You get a handful of units at the start of the quest, and 
 other than a few rare occasions where you find more, that's all you get. Don't get them all killed. 
 And definitely don't let them run down an embankment towards your foes only to have your dwarf 
 lob a cocktail in their midst. Your men won't like that very much, even if your dwarf will.
  
  It provides a challenge without being mind-numbingly hard, and is infinitely more strategic 
 than something like Starcraft, where the easiest way to get things accomplished is to amass a huge 
 force and just send them all in at once. If you try that in Myth, it may work, but that next battle 
 in the level will be even harder seeing as you stupidly sacrificed some of your soldiers on a frontal 
 assault.
  
  The graphics were good, even with all the units rendered as 2D sprites. The sound fit well, from 
 the narrator to unit cries and laughter, and music. It improved on the first game's unit management, 
 especially with regards to formations and pointing your troops in a certain direction. Outdoor 
 levels received buildings and interactive pieces, and indoor levels were added (though they're 
 arguably not as good as the wide-open outdoor levels) . There really isn't much one could complain 
 about Myth II, unless you're one of the folks who isn't completely happy unless you have a group 
 of resource gathering units milling around and a base to micromanage. Micromanaging units is so 
 much more fun, and causing complete bloody mayhem while doing so is even more fun. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
