-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Myth III: The Wolf Age
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/myth3thewolfage/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov  9, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.4
Critic Score: 7.7, 17 Review (s)
User Score: 8.2, 163 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Gathering
Developer: MumboJumbo
Genre: Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Oct 28, 2001
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Even if the multiplayer isn't polished to match the expectations of a demanding online community, 
 Myth III stands on its own as a great single-player game. 

 When Bungie's Myth: The Fallen Lords came out at the end of 1997, it represented a radical new direction 
 for real-time strategy games. The game was purely tactical, excluding resource gathering and production 
 and instead emphasizing the importance of each unit and of carefully maneuvering troop formations. 
 Rolling 3D terrain, a detailed physics engine, and graphic special effects made for intense fast-paced 
 combat with real depth and intricacy. What tied it all together was a strong epic storyline in 
 the single-player campaign and a lively multiplayer community revolving around Bungie. net, Bungie's 
 gaming service. Myth III: The Wolf Age follows directly in the footsteps of the two games preceding 
 it and adds 3D character models and many new units. Despite some rough edges in the multiplayer 
 launch and compatibility problems with Windows XP, Myth III's single-player game represents the 
 best the Myth series has to offer. Featuring great graphics, a memorable story, and plenty of diverse 
 missions, Myth III's campaign will present a welcome challenge for veterans and newcomers alike. 
           The bloody battlefields of Myth return in full 3D.    

  Myth III is the first full game in the series to appear since Take-Two acquired the franchise as 
 a part of  2589928  last year's deal  that sent Bungie from its native Chicago to finish up its 
 shooter Halo at the Microsoft campus in Redmond, Wash. Mumbo Jumbo, the new Myth developer, was 
 founded by former members of Ritual, the studio responsible for Heavy Metal F. A. K. K. 2 and Sin. 
 Myth III was developed extremely quickly -- in about 10 months total -- since the team used as much 
 of the Myth II code as possible and grafted on the parts necessary for the new 3D models and higher-detail 
 environments. The result is a significant graphical update that generally looks excellent. The 
 units look quite good when the camera is zoomed in for a close-up look, but even at the furthest 
 zoom position, the new engine makes for much smoother unit movement and larger, more varied unit 
 models.   

  Myth III pulls together familiar pieces from the high fantasy tradition -- you'll find dwarven smiths, 
 fierce barbarians, legions of undead, and ancient relics of power -- and mines nearly all the first 
 games' back story to create a what would be a page-turning epic if it were in book form. The Fallen 
 Lords, introduced in the first game as fallen heroes risen to lead the forces of darkness, have 
 always been an intriguing cast of characters with a surprising amount of personality, including 
 personal ambitions and old vendettas among themselves. Myth III takes place 1,000 years before 
 the previous games, in the time when some of the Fallen Lords were actually heroes for the forces 
 of good. Veterans of the series will quickly recognize the Fallen Lords Balor, Soulblighter, Shiver, 
 and the Deceiver in Myth III as the heroes Connacht, Damas, Ravanna, and Myrdred, respectively. 
 These characters have new lives all their own, and most of the game's missions include one of them 
 to help you. Because of the power these heroes bring to your side, the forces of light prove much 
 more interesting and well equipped than before. But that's not to say that the forces of darkness 
 are at a disadvantage. Moagim, the faceless one, serves as a suitably terrible and formidable opponent 
 throughout the game.           Myth III's story is simply outstanding, especially for fans of the 
 first games.    

  True to its early promises, Mumbo Jumbo has changed almost nothing about Myth's core gameplay, 
 only adding new units, maps, and missions. This is good news that means the existing game balance 
 remains intact. Nonetheless, the Myth games have a gameplay style so different from that of other 
 real-time strategy games that it takes some getting used to for players who haven't experienced 
 the series before. The story-based missions give you a set group of troops -- typically some mix 
 of melee, ranged, and spell units -- to use against the computer-controlled forces that are scripted 
 to attack at particular times or places. But while the number and starting places of your undead 
 opponents remains the same between different tries at a given mission, the artificial intelligence 
 is scripted to generally react well to the changing threat you pose. Only occasionally do missions 
 give you reinforcements to cover your troop losses mid-mission, so even if you win a given engagement, 
 you might need to change tactics and replay it to get more of your troops to their final objective. 
 Coordinating formations of different units is an important key to victory, and the single-player 
 game can be slowed down to half-speed to make it easier to micromanage the fast-paced battles. 
 At the lowest level of difficulty, the 25 missions are still quite involved. The challenge rises 
 considerably at the medium "mighty" setting and the nearly impossible "legendary" setting, so at 
 least the most interesting missions are worth replaying, either by yourself or online, with the 
 co-op multiplayer option.   

  There are more new units in Myth III than were added in Myth II. Instead of the different good-aligned 
 races contributing just one unit type to a ragtag horde, most races are now well represented by 
 two or three unit types. This helps the missions make more sense. A band of Molotov-cocktail-throwing 
 dwarves can now be supported by surly dwarven axemen and even stocky flamethrower-wielding troops. 
 The unit diversity helps the missions focus on dealing with individual factions of the dark horde, 
 such as the swift myrkridia -- now with their own giant units and lightning-bolt-casting mages. The 
 trow, walking mountains that they are, come in new forms as well. The move to 3D units has also 
 allowed Mumbo Jumbo to make the trow just as huge and imposing onscreen as you'd expect them to 
 be.    

 Myth III's minimal interface is nearly identical to that of Myth II. The short tutorial -- unfortunately 
 somewhat hidden in the missions list rather than readily apparent on the main menu -- provides a 
 quick way to get familiar with how Myth's interface differs from that of other strategy games. 
 One thing that still takes some getting used to in the Myth games is the 3D camera control. While 
 all actions are available onscreen for mouse-only control, the game is really meant to be played 
 with a combination of mouse and keyboard, much like a first-person shooter, with the keyboard hand 
 constantly adjusting the camera to keep the action in view. Yet, some will still be frustrated 
 with the relatively close-in camera perspective that often doesn't let you completely see both 
 the enemy and your own troops. This isn't a real problem after a bit of practice -- you'll learn 
 to keep a watchful eye on the overhead map to warn you of incoming enemy forces. However, the camera 
 gives a particularly unsatisfying view during a couple of isolated single-player missions with 
 high-elevation maps, since the maximum camera distance is pinned to the lowest point of the map 
 and isn't relative to the current elevation.           Many of the campaign missions are challenging 
 and intense.    

  The game engine's transition to full 3D takes the game's graphics to a new level. The units are 
 now animated with hundreds of frames of animation, so there's much smoother movement whenever the 
 units are walking, fighting, or even standing idle -- each unit has idle and taunt animations. Another 
 nice touch is that warriors and berserk troops will be randomly outfitted with axes instead of 
 swords, for variety's sake. Playing the game with a GeForce3 or similarly high-end card lets you 
 turn on antialiasing at high resolutions, helping keep the units looking crisp even as you zoom 
 out to get a wider view of the action. The environments look much more detailed, especially the 
 terrain, since the game swaps in higher-detail textures as you zoom in. The game also lowers the 
 detail level to maintain a steady frame rate on lower-end systems. However, there are occasional 
 lapses in the game's visual presentation. While the hand-drawn cutscene illustrations generally 
 look excellent, the cutscenes created in-engine and played back as movies are overcompressed and 
 are often so close to the relatively low-poly models that they unnecessarily show off the shortcomings 
 of an engine designed for isometric viewing.   

  The first two Myth games had great sound, complete with memorable sound effects and voice acting. 
 Myth III doesn't reuse the preexisting sounds, as the developers choose instead to record new audio 
 at a higher level of quality. While fans used to the old in-game sounds might be nostalgic, the 
 switch is worth it, and the voice acting for the new characters is quite good. Unfortunately, silence 
 is most often what you'll hear during pauses in the fighting, since there's much less of the ambient 
 audio that once enriched the world of Myth.           The multiplayer needs work, but the rest 
 lives up to the series' high standards.    

  Myth III's major shortcomings are its lack of new multiplayer content and a number of technical 
 issues. Mumbo Jumbo is preparing a patch to resolve the significant outstanding issues and plans 
 to release its map-making tools, which should allow the community to convert popular existing third-party 
 maps and mods, like the World War II mod, and make entirely new ones. But many of the planned multiplayer 
 features, such as new game types and the ability to play different tribes of units against each 
 other, have been dropped entirely. The game is also not supported on Windows XP, Microsoft's new 
 operating system, which started to ship to retail a couple of weeks before the game and has been 
 appearing on new PCs since September. While some players have reported that the game runs fine 
 for them under Windows XP, we and many others have experienced a number of crash bugs that can 
 make both the single-player and multiplayer games a frustrating experience. Users of XP should 
 be aware that support for the OS is not in Mumbo Jumbo's near-term plans.   

  Even if the multiplayer isn't polished to match the expectations of a demanding online community, 
 Myth III stands on its own as a great single-player game. The epic story is simply terrific, especially 
 after the first third of the game. It's unfortunate that the publisher decided to release the game 
 after the release of Windows XP without XP compatibility, but this was only one of the things sacrificed 
 to get the game on store shelves on a strict timeline. While Bungie did ship Myth II with a showstopping 
 bug and had some problems with its multiplayer service, the company's independence at the time 
 allowed it to be dedicated to refining the game over its life span, forging strong loyalty in the 
 multiplayer community. However, the business circumstances have changed, and Mumbo Jumbo and Take-Two 
 aren't likely to give the same level of ongoing support, but this may not matter too much once 
 the map-making tools are released and the community can convert the large library of existing third-party 
 content. Myth III isn't as well polished a game as its predecessors, but its strong single-player 
 element and solid graphics make it a remarkable game in its own right.   

  
    Editor's note:  The review originally mentioned that Myth III added a unit-grouping feature, 
 which was in fact available in the previous games. The point has been omitted. GameSpot regrets 
 the error.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (3 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: halloween_spike
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 21, 2008 5:41 am PT
Review:  At its best Myth The Wolf Age is terrific but from time to time the experience is marred by frustrating 
 gameplay. There is also an abiding sense that developers Mumbo Jumbo, who took on this the third 
 in the Myth series, threw every idea they had into the game but didn't actually take the time to 
 develop some of them as thoroughly as they should have done. Nowhere is this more evident than 
 in the vast range of forces arranged on both sides which while providing great variety fail to 
 add significantly to the gameplay of Myth The Wolf Age's predecessors. Nevertheless this is a more 
 than worthwhile game which satisfactorily adds to the backstory of the Myth universe. Overall, 
 it's The Phantom Menace to the orignal trilogy - glossier and slicker in presentation yet somehow 
 lacking so many of the things which made the first games great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stabby
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 21, 2007 6:53 am PT
Review:  I'm not going to try and be a smart reviewer this time, I'll keep it simple.
  
  Gameplay: 9
  If you played the previous Myth titles, then this is pretty much the same and needless 
 to say it's still got all the great fun from before. If you're new, shame on you! The gameplay 
 is basically your band of warriors fighting through wave after wave of unqiue enemies where your 
 strategy is needed since if your unit dies, it's NOT coming back. The only problem is its TO much 
 like the other and not to sound smug, I've come up with fresh new missions in my head. But that 
 aside theres enough action packed thrilling core gameplay.
  
  Graphics: 8
  The units models are interesting a full of colour and life however look less detailed to closer 
 you get, but its no different from most, if not all RTS games. And despite what PC Gamer puts emphasis 
 on, ignore to poop quality cinematics.
  
  Sound: 9
  The music isn't as epic as the last in the series but still epic in it's own way. Along with this 
 theres all the neat swords slashing, bombs booming and fire frying sound effects to go with the 
 raging battles. Not to mention each unit has plenty of personality alone.
  
  Value: 9
  Since the gameplay is the same theres plenty of engaging gameplay int he single player alone although 
 not enough support for the classic multiplayer.
  
  Tilt: 9
  Not as charming as the previous titles but still a great RTS game. A must buy for Myth fans, recommended 
 for fantasy fans and to be considered by strategy fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Solid_Alexei
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 29, 2006 2:41 am PT
Review:  Myth 3: The Wolf Age is the final chapter of the myth saga. Its story going back in time to tell 
 the quest thats started it all. Some may say that the third game is the weakest of all three. 
 The problems with the development being stopped and support being withdrawn right in the final 
 stage of development made its minuses to the overall game value but Myth 3 is still the same old 
 Myth me love and cherish.
  
  The story: The story goes back in time to tell the quest of noble warrior and the beginning of 
 evil that we fight in the first Myth games. The presentation is amazing and has the same magic 
 we loved in the first games.
  
  The Sound: The sound is great with better and more complex special effects. The music is perhaps 
 the best in the series with different and beautiful themes. The narration is superb and equal to 
 the first games.
  
  The Graphics: Probably is the biggest addition. The game comes in full 3D including characters 
 this time. It adds more creativity and beauty. The amount of gore is twice the seize then in the 
 first games. You can literally paint the landscape with blood. Adding arms, legs and other body 
 parts alongside armor and weapon scattered around makes this game the thing of beauty. The gameplay: 
 It features the same difficult missions like in the first Myth games. They are very different from 
 each other and more interesting then ever before! How would you like to take command of mighty 
 dwarven army and defend the castle from the approaching Ghoul armada? Its the thing of beauty! 
 The third game may be less perfected as the first two but it is till our old Myth that we came 
 to love and cherish so much. Myth 3: The Wolf Age is a great game that does an amazing job in concluding 
 one of the greatest RTS sagas ever made! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
