-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: NAM
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/nam/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug  5, 1998
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4
Critic Score: 3.9, 8 Review (s)
User Score: 5.3, 42 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: GT Interactive
Genre: Action
Date:     Jul 31, 1998

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
NAM strives to deliver the fun and intensity of a first-person action game and the realism of a 
 simulation - and because of that indecision it ultimately fails on both counts. 

 Here's a puzzler for all you action gamers: Why would someone create a first-person shooter based 
 on a war in which the biggest obstacle was trying to see who was shooting at you? The game in question 
 is NAM, which strives to deliver the fun and intensity of a first-person action game and the realism 
 of a simulation - and because of that indecision it ultimately fails on both counts. GT Interactive 
 has been touting the fact that the game was "created with the developer of the Doom conversion 
 for the Marine Corps," but that only means that if that conversion is like this game, then it's 
 not very fun for us civilians to play.  

 NAM puts you in the boots of Alan "the Bear" Westmoreland (couldn't these guys have come up with 
 something more original than the last name of the top US general in Vietnam?) , a Marine Corps sergeant 
 who has the handy ability to absorb insane amounts of bullets and recuperate to full strength instantaneously 
 by grabbing little bags with Red Cross emblems on them. The reason for the Bear's Duke Nukem-like 
 powers? The CIA's dosed him up with - and I quote from the manual - "an experimental serum that 
 is a healing agent, pain killer, and stimulant all rolled into one bad-ass cocktail." Wow - if 
 they'd given this stuff to every grunt in Vietnam, Hanoi would probably look like Las Vegas by 
 now.  

 The real reason behind the Bear's superhuman abilities, though, is much simpler: NAM was made using 
 the Build engine (as in Duke Nukem 3D, Redneck Rampage, Shadow Warrior, Blood, etc.) , and about 
 all that's been done for the sake of "realism" has been to make the enemies almost invisible in 
 the dense jungle undergrowth and to limit the amount of ammo for heavy weapons like the M72 antitank 
 rocket launcher and the M79 grenade launcher. Even there, the designers add a video game touch: 
 Both weapons have been enhanced so they'll home in on an enemy soldier, which actually is a drawback 
 if you're trying to hit a spot between two foes in order to take them both out with one hit.  

 
 So what you get is a single guy squaring off against 60 or 70 enemies per level - it's like Rambo 
 starring in Duke Nukem or Redneck Rampage, but with the handicap of limited ammo for his heavy-duty 
 weapons. Because the Build engine does a pretty crappy job of rendering leaves and brush, you wind 
 up staring at a bunch of pixels trying to spot the flash from a gun barrel as you see your life 
 meter gradually shrink to nothingness. That might reflect how tough it was to see VC or NVA soldiers, 
 but it doesn't add up to very much fun. The Build engine was made for running and gunning, not 
 crawling and sniping - but that's what it's being used for here.  

 What's more disappointing is that NAM doesn't even manage to incorporate the few advances that have 
 been made to the Build engine over the years. Feel like driving that tank that's parked beside 
 you at the start of a mission? You could, if NAM were designed by 3D Realms (Shadow Warrior) or 
 Xatrix (Redneck Rampage Rides Again) , both of which let you drive vehicles; instead, all you can 
 do is look at it longingly and be thankful for the machine-gun fire it's spitting out. And NAM 
 runs agonizingly slow compared with other games using the Build engine - it's probably because 
 of all the computing muscle required to render the trees and leaves, but that doesn't change the 
 fact that the animation is amazingly choppy at 640x480 even on the recommended system (Pentium 
 133) .  

 NAM strives to re-create the action in NAM by letting you call in artillery and air support, but 
 it bears little resemblance to the real thing. Request an air strike, and before you can say "Hanoi 
 Hilton" you'll see napalm bursts dotting the landscape in front of you. You also get to control 
 AI marines on several missions, but by the time you maneuver in front of them and issue an order, 
 it's likely that either you or they will wind up lying face down in the pixelated jungle breathing 
 your last breath.   

 NAM features the usual multiplayer options of any game using the Build engine, but because it's 
 not officially supported on a gaming network, the only way to find an opponent is to head to the 
 Internet Gaming Zone or HEAT and search for someone who owns the game. Given how little fun is 
 to be had in the game's single-player mode, though, the chances aren't too good that you'll be 
 running into a lot of people eager to play with you.  

 And that's actually something of a shame. Besides CTF and gruntmatch games, NAM allows you to play 
 in fireteam mode (sort of like Team Fortress for Quake) , in which each player can choose a different 
 role - sniper, medic, machine gunner, and so on - so that you have to work as a team to win the 
 mission (once your character dies, you're out until the mission's over) . There's also an option 
 to play gruntmatch games against AI opponents, but it's little more than a joke: These guys must 
 have been drinking that "badass cocktail" that Bear was knocking down, because they're almost impossible 
 to kill - they move at the speed of light and tend to hang out at the spots where you rematerialize 
 after dying (damn campers!) .  

 But make no mistake: No matter what the box copy says about "realistically bringing the true experience 
 of the Vietnam War to life," this is a video game trying to pass itself off as an accurate and 
 realistic simulation. Is it a good first-person shoot-em-up? No. Is it a good simulation? No. Should 
 you buy it? No.  

 That is all. Dismissed.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Jondavisx
Rating: 2.5
Date: Apr 25, 2008 9:16 am PT
Review:  I haven't played this game since I bought it back in 1998 and some how still manage to have this 
 piece of crap to date. I love good war games like the Delta Force and the Call of Duty Series, 
 and great FPS like Duke Nukem and Doom. Nam was so bad of a game it sets the bar in Bad Gamesville. 
 The graphics even for its time were deplorable the sound effects and background music were bland 
 and repetitively annoying. The enemy AI was dubious at best and most likely nonexistent. I think 
 the game just cheated and gave away your position at all times, making Nam which is already substandard 
 by all other
  measures, practically unplayable and downright not very enjoyable. I couldn't recommend Nam to 
 anyone unless of course you want to see just how F-inn
  bad it is. 
  
  Please note that I hold the copyrights to the phrase "Bad Gamesville" :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: N0d0
Rating: 3
Date: Nov 21, 2007 10:42 pm PT
Review:  The only real reason I was interested in this game when I bought it was the fact that it uses the 
 build engine (engine that powered Duke Nukem 3D, Shadow Warrior, Blood) . I wasn't about to go out 
 of my way for it - but I got it for one dollar, who could resist that? But I also wondered why 
 he sold it so cheap. Now I see why...
  
  For the record, I'm playing the version of this game called 'Napalm'. As far as I know there is 
 no real differences between NAM and Napalm. Don't know what the story is about all that, but I 
 don't care anyway.
  
  First things first, the story: you're some marine named Alan "The Bear" Westmoreland (oh wow) who's 
 a experimental killer for the CIA, all dosed up on a magical serum that acts as a "healing agent, 
 pain killer, and stimulant all rolled into one bad-ass cocktail." Quoted directly from the manual 
 by the way. Basically it's pretty ridiculous.
  
  As I said in the intro, this game is running on the build engine. That said, don't expect much 
 in the way of graphics. I still like the engine - but you really have to look at the technical 
 side here. NAM runs on the same version of the build engine as Duke Nukem 3D. Now, I'm all for 
 using the build engine. But the version used in NAM is outdated. This is not the case for other 
 1997 build games like Shadow Warrior and Blood, which use more up-to-date versions that are capable 
 of advanced graphics and effects. I'll just sum this up without the technical stuff: It's pixelated 
 and looks bad.
  
  Which leads me to the actual gameplay. I found it difficult to pass the first level. I'm dead serious. 
 I played on the easiest difficulty, too. This is one of the only occasions where the graphics actually 
 affect how fun the game is. Due to the horribly pixelated foliage and bad AI the enemy can see 
 you, but you can't see them. Snipers (and all enemies, actually) kill you almost instantly, mines 
 are tiny and spread all over and you'll be pressing the quick-load button time after time. You 
 can't see the mines - because of all of the vegetation and trees blocking your view! Supposedly 
 you can press space just after triggering them to disable them but I never got that to work. Doesn't 
 seem very realistic, anyway.
  
  Now, I'm actually starting a little section here for stolen content. Many of the game's textures 
 are taken from Duke Nukem 3D. Others are taken from Redneck Rampage and Shadow Warrior. Much of 
 the game's code is exactly the same as Duke3D's, or if it is changed it's very minor. Some sounds 
 are ripped from Duke. Even the one-liners the protagonist says during combat are exactly the same 
 as the ones Duke was notorious for in Duke3D, although some new (and pretty bad ones) are added. 
 This game is basically a Duke Nukem 3D modification, and a bad one at that. You even crack your 
 knuckles at the beginning of every level! And the level ends either when you enter a certain area, 
 or press a large button... that acts exactly like the nuke button from Duke.
  
  The music and sound for the game are bad and okay. Music is average, but there's only a few tracks 
 for the game so the same tracks will be used throughout the game OVER AND OVER AGAIN. It gets annoying. 
 Sound effects are decent.
  
  Another thing is the realism. There's absolutely no recoil (even for the M60) . The only weapon 
 you reload is the M16, although you do cock the shotgun after every shot but don't put the shells 
 in. The flamethrower gibs enemies instead of lighting them on fire. You have a knife in the game, 
 but it's pointless and when you do use it it takes quite a few hits to actually kill an enemy. 
 You can kill an enemy with a shotgun from across a field. There's more but I won't list them. Oh, 
 and apparently your character has three arms since you can reload the M16 and swing your knife 
 at the same time.
  
  There's also a multiplayer mode but I couldn't play it because no one plays this game any more, 
 and based on Gamespot's review no one did back in the days either.
  
  Just stay away. Stay back, I'm warning you! This thing is dangerous to the heart and soul. Okay, 
 I was exaggerating a bit with that but I wasn't exaggerating with one thing - this game is poor. 
 The game actually spawned a sequel, WWII GI, surprisingly. Anyways don't get it because I can't 
 guarantee you'll have fun with it. Just get a more recent Vietnam game like Men of Valor or even 
 Vietcong, you'll enjoy those. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
