-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: NASCAR Racing 2003 Season
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/driving/nascarracing2003season/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb  6, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.8
Critic Score: 8.9, 19 Review (s)
User Score: 9.2, 407 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sierra Entertainment
Developer: Papyrus
Genre: Stock Car Racing
Date:     Feb 14, 2003
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Though NASCAR Racing 2003 Season isn't quite a revolutionary game, it is nevertheless a worthy finale 
 for the series. 

 Say it ain't so! Having revolutionized PC vehicular competition and proven definitively that a truly 
 authentic computerized driving experience is entirely within reach, the most dominant racing series 
 of the last decade is headed for that great oval in the sky. Though designer Papyrus Racing Games 
 may return to the PC at a later date with a new driving game, it has officially ended the run of 
 its flagship PC series, NASCAR Racing. Fortunately, it hasn't done so without one last hurrah. 
 Papyrus's latest game, NASCAR Racing 2003 Season, makes a great finale for the world's foremost 
 stock car racing series.           NASCAR Racing 2003 Season features an improved instant-replay 
 option.    

 Those familiar with NASCAR Racing will feel immediately comfortable with the latest game. Once again, 
 Papyrus has focused on NASCAR's premier series, the Winston Cup, and the developer has gone to 
 great lengths to bring the full flavor of the Cup to your computer. In NASCAR Racing 2003, you'll 
 find all 23 venues frequented by the pros, including the freshly renovated New Hampshire facility 
 and the recently revamped two-mile road course formerly known as Sears Point and now named Infineon 
 Raceway. As in real life, the game features night driving at several of the tracks, including the 
 Bristol and Daytona circuits. It also offers one fantasy track, the extremely fast and crazily 
 high-banked holdover from NASCAR Racing 2002 Season, Coca-Cola Superspeedway.   

  And fortunately, the latest NASCAR game doesn't skimp on drivers, cars, or teams, either. Though 
 some of the Winston Cup's lesser-known part-time competitors don't make an appearance, all the 
 big names are here, along with generally authentic colors and most sponsors other than alcohol 
 and tobacco interests. In fact, those who say real-life NASCAR is simply a high-speed PR gimmick 
 for its sponsors will quite likely have the same complaint here too. Whether you're sitting inside 
 your car, monitoring the action from one of the game's many alternate viewpoints, or watching the 
 proceedings afterward via the revised replay suite -- which is now better than ever thanks to an 
 improved control setup -- you'll feel inundated by corporate signage and logos, but again, it's just 
 like the real thing.   

  Like most of the previous NASCAR installments, NASCAR Racing 2003 doesn't take a huge leap forward. 
 The truth is that Papyrus began with a superb foundation nearly 10 years ago -- which in itself was 
 made possible through earlier benchmarks such as 1988's amazing Indianapolis 500: The Simulation -- and 
 has continued to enhance and improve the formula with each new game.   

  NASCAR veterans will recognize the game's interfaces and general design. The opening menu looks 
 similar to that of previous games, with the exception of a new backdrop and one important revision -- the 
 elimination of Darrell Waltrip's track tours, which were a nice addition for newcomers and a point 
 of interest for veterans. However, NASCAR continues to offer its driving lessons mode, a 10-part 
 sequence of tutorials first unveiled in NASCAR Racing 2002 Season. The comprehensive driving lessons 
 cover a broad range of important topics, from general rules to pitting strategies, drafting instruction, 
 and tire and fuel management, and they are therefore highly recommended to those who want to take 
 the game and their racing to the next level.           A pack of hungry stock cars readies itself 
 for an upcoming corner on Watkins Glen.    

 Yet NASCAR Racing 2003 shines brightest on the track. Many have tried, but to date no other game 
 has delivered the same level of authenticity; the same feeling that you are indeed in control of 
 a large and very powerful stock car. And in NASCAR Racing 2003, that experience has been enhanced. 
 If you play at the highest realism setting with all the driver's aids switched off, you'll find 
 your car to be even more difficult to control than in previous games. And should you ever get into 
 a position where a corner of your car lifts from the racing surface, you'll soon realize just how 
 easy it is to get one of these things airborne, and cornering is also more challenging in NASCAR 
 Racing 2003 than ever before. In fact, some beginners who try to play at the highest realism settings 
 may get frustrated and simply give up.   

  Fortunately, rookies can always turn to the game's optional driver's aids. Though the first few 
 NASCAR games were designed strictly for hard-core racing fans, the series now caters to both the 
 expert and the newcomer. NASCAR Racing 2003 has optional features such as automatic transmissions, 
 antilock brakes, traction control, invulnerable cars, and simplified "arcade" control to help beginners 
 get started. The game even has a new set of incremental steering, acceleration, and braking adjustments 
 to give you greater control over your input.    

 All these extra aids are a good thing, because rookies would have a very tough time keeping their 
 vehicle running properly without them. Indeed, wrecking a stock car has never seemed easier. Now, 
 tires will explode after just a few seconds of brake lockup. Vital components will expire or weaken 
 after mild instances of contact. And as always, over-revved engines are potentially dead engines. 
           Though NASCAR Racing 2003 still doesn't show a driver's hands and arms, the cockpit is 
 otherwise excellent.    

 Yet Papyrus has not addressed some of NASCAR's minor problems, one of which is the quirky behavior 
 of its AI drivers. When beginning a race, for instance, your computer-controlled peers inhumanly 
 and robotically adhere to their two-abreast formation for a minute or more. Worse still, when they 
 drive through a high-speed turn, they never seem to experience car control problems. Though they'll 
 realistically drop their speed, they do not exhibit understeer, nor do their cars force them unintentionally 
 high on the track. They do not waver, they do not fail to shift gears at appropriate times, and 
 they only rarely collide with one another. In short, while you're madly struggling to manage your 
 car, they never seem compelled to fight with theirs.   

  Otherwise, NASCAR's AI drivers are actually very impressive. They'll usually recognize your position 
 on the track and react to any foolish moves by performing fast but believable collision-avoidance 
 maneuvers. They'll seize opportunities to move past you, while making every effort to keep clear 
 of you. And they'll consistently and unflinchingly adhere to the difficulty level you have selected. 
   

  Unless of course you've chosen one of NASCAR Racing 2003's new features, "adaptive AI," known more 
 commonly as "rubber-band AI." With this option selected, the artificial intelligence attempts to 
 match its performance with yours, so if you're driving poorly, your opponents decelerate to match 
 your speed. Even if you select the most extreme 110 percent difficulty level, the other guys will 
 modify their pace within the first three or four laps. This feature works far better here than 
 it does in other games, where the AI goes to ridiculous lengths to adjust its speed, sometimes 
 coming to a complete stop if you've been involved in a collision, and fortunately, you can toggle 
 it on and off.   

  Traditionally, one of the great benefits of the NASCAR Racing series has been its enthusiastic 
 multiplayer following, and that shouldn't change for the latest edition. NASCAR Racing 2003 delivers 
 a sophisticated online multiplayer experience that takes into account every aspect of a racing 
 weekend, supports up to 42 players per event, and is wholly accessible from within the game. We 
 entered several races via Sierra's dedicated servers and had a ton of fun. Although we experienced 
 a few instances of warping, the action was generally fluid and the racing extremely tight.   

 
  Graphically, NASCAR Racing 2003 offers several welcome new additions, the most obvious of which 
 is the series' first depiction of sun glare. At midday, it'll temporarily blind you. In twilight 
 at the Lowe's and Richmond events, it produces a soft, orange glow that seemingly spreads across 
 the surrounding scenery. NASCAR Racing 2003 also has plenty of lens flare and shadow effects that 
 help make the game look great. Papyrus has also added airborne objects, such as airplanes and blimps, 
 to the sky, though these are rendered in 2D and tend to look strange from certain angles. However, 
 NASCAR Racing 2003 has a new feature that looks great -- cumulative windshield debris, which builds 
 up over the course of a race and eventually forms a very realistic-looking layer of grime. And 
 NASCAR Racing 2003's highly detailed cockpit is the best around.   

  Unfortunately, the game's exterior scenery looks a bit dated. Distant objects appear jumpy and 
 sparkly and in bad need of antialiasing, and most trackside elements are strictly 2D. However, 
 you'll probably be too busy paying attention to the track to notice. As you might expect from the 
 series, NASCAR Racing 2003's automobiles are gorgeously detailed replicas of their real-life counterparts 
 that belch smoke and bend and mutilate wonderfully in head-on collisions. Track surfaces are gritty 
 and constructed to convey an astonishing sense of speed.           NASCAR Racing 2003's sun effects 
 are simply stunning.     

 For the most part, NASCAR Racing 2003 sounds as good as it looks. Few racing games have effectively 
 captured the guttural growl of these big-motor machines, but Papyrus mastered the art a long time 
 ago and continues to do a great job. NASCAR Racing 2003's engines roar convincingly, but they don't 
 obscure important sound effects such as tire squeals, gear shifts, and crashing body parts. You 
 may occasionally encounter instances of car-to-car contact that don't create a corresponding sound, 
 or occasions where the game's audio will drop out momentarily, but these occasions will be rare, 
 if you experience them at all.   

  In retrospect, the NASCAR Racing series as a whole has quite likely done more to advance the art 
 of computerized racing simulations than any other title to date. Papyrus stuck to its guns throughout 
 and continued to deliver an extremely challenging and impressively realistic experience right through 
 to the end, while at the same time gradually opening the game up to newcomers. Though NASCAR Racing 
 2003 Season isn't quite a revolutionary game, it is nevertheless a worthy finale for the series. 
    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (21 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: theidcguy
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 19, 2009 11:16 pm PT
Review:  Ok so maybe you might see another game like this but you'll probably be paying a lot of money to 
 do so *cough*Iracing*cough*. Since papyrus went out of buisness this game has had mods from the 
 late models to indys to anything you could probably think of. I came across this game a few years 
 back but never really bought it because I had EA sports games.. But after the miserable failure 
 of the EA sports titles like NASCAR 08 and 09, I bought NR2003 community back in July 2008 and 
 have been apart of the NR2003 since October 27th 2008 (that's when I started painting cars for NR2003 
 and became an active member) . I do wish sierra hadn't shut down the servers. Now lets get down 
 to what I think of the game.
  
  Graphics - Well yea okay they aren't the best but once you start moding the game and you pick up 
 the graphics updates mods and reflections mods, you'll find the graphics simply AMAZING. Their 
 are plenty of moding sites that have graphical enhancement you just have to know where to look.
 
  
  Handling - Ok strap your ass to your chair because this make you jump for joy especially if you 
 have been waiting on EA to make a NASCAR game with realistic handling (Which never will happen) . 
 This game made by papyrus has the most realistic handling of a real NASCAR! It really does make 
 you feel like you are in control of every aspect of your NASCAR! As long as you turn off all the 
 assists and have a steering wheel. If you have a gamepad you'll probably get frustrated at short 
 tracks and speedways. 
  
  AI - Ok so I know in EA sports games the races are extremely boring because the AI doesn't feel 
 human. Well not the case in this game because papyrus got it right! Imagine you are in a tight 
 pack and all of the sudden you get loose, the AI will try and move out of the way just like a real 
 driver would. If you think the AI is too easy or isn't human like, all you have to do is adjust 
 some things in the track ini (Not recommended for new people) .
  
  Pit stops - HAHA! At last you pit all on your own! Ok well granted in all papyrus NASCAR games 
 you can pit on your own. But come on making mistakes in the pits just like real drivers do is awesome. 
 Going down pit road is probably the most fun you'll have on a caution.
  
  Wrecks - Some people enjoy the site of crashes, like myself. Well this game produces the most realistic 
 crashes, so much infact you can re-create crashes from various races in real life. Crashing on 
 superspeedways is just like the crashes you see in real life, unexpected and BIG! Especially if 
 it starts in the middle of the pack.
  
  Overall if you want a realistic NASCAR game and you are tired of the crappy games on the consoles. 
 I suggest you buy this game because well.. It simply the most realistic NASCAR game to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LusterPurge94
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 4, 2008 4:04 pm PT
Review:  NASCAR Racing 2003 was, unfortunately, the final NASCAR game developed by Sierra and Papyrus Racing. 
 But that doesn't matter- it is definitely the best PC NASCAR game out there to date.
  
  NR2003 does have some problems, but those aren't enough to give it a bad reputation. It sold very 
 well, and is still very well-praised and popular.
  
  Let us begin with a very appealing aspect of the game- the graphics. I noted in one of my last 
 blog entries that good graphics don't guarantee a good game, but that doesn't mean the graphics 
 are useless. The game looks awesome, and it's hard to beleive that this was 2003. The frame rate 
 is smooth, the cars are detailed, and even the sky, clouds, weather conditions, and shadowing look 
 as close to realistic as a game made in 2003 can be.
  
  The graphics in a NASCAR game are vital, because since NASCAR involves high-action, 200-mph conditions, 
 a smooth frame rate will give the player a more realistic and playable sense.
  
  The only sounds you hear in the car is the roar of the engine, your crew chief and spotter talking, 
 and sometimes the bashing and smashing of cars going every which way. The monotonous roar of the 
 engine constantly doesn't bother me, it just enhances the feel of NASCAR. 
  
  The sound effect used for scraping or hitting the wall bothers me, though. It sounds like a light 
 scraping of tin foil against solid steel, even when you bash into the wall at 170 miels per hour, 
 not like a two-ton beast ramming head-on into something. 
  
  The controls are my biggest issue with the game. For the record, I don't use arrow keys- I have 
 a steering wheel controller that comes with pedals. Even then, the controls are imbalanced. I suppose 
 that's not worth complaining about too much, because real NASCAR drivers would have to wrestle 
 with their car at times. 
  
  But there are different setups for your car, which affects how it will handle, and I find that 
 the transition from even Easy mode to Medium mode is very difficult. Also, there are moments I 
 experienced during a race in which my car will be handling well one lap, then the next lap it starts 
 deciding that it doesn't want to turn, and you have to drive slower.
  
  The opponent strength option is something I have issues with, as well. You can toggle between 70% 
 and 100%, but good luck trying to find a setting that's right for your skill level, because if 
 it's too low you'll end up being about 4 mph faster than the AI, and sometimes this causes you 
 to not be able to stop and crash into everything. But if that setting is too high, it's the other 
 way around- you can't compete with the leaders most of the time, and good luck qualifying well.
 
  
  But one of the most appealing features of this game is that it has a knockout, crazy awesome multiplayer 
 mode. This mode has a constant chat option enabled, you can play against anyone across the internet 
 on any track, but the only problem is that you can't choose what car you want to be. Most of the 
 time, the game ends up giving you a fake car that's all one solid color with a triple-digit number 
 slapped on the side.
  
  And best of all- you can get updates from Sierra's website, including a CoT mode and a whole bunch 
 of unreal tracks. 
  
  That said, here is the criteria I have judged this game on to give it my score of 9.0:
  
  GRAPHICS: 
 10
  SOUND: 9
  GAMEPLAY: 8
  ENTERTAINMENT: 9
  OVERALL: 36 out of 40 (9 out of 10)
  
  In closing, this game has its flaws, but it's still an awesome driving simulator whose upsides 
 cannot be matched.
  That's all for now, folks. LusterPurge94 over and out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmb34
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 24, 2008 6:29 am PT
Review:  Well it's nascar racing 2003 season's 5th anniversary! Wow 5 yrs and still going strong. i started 
 racing papy games starting with nascar racing 4 and at it's release it was considered the most 
 revolutionary-realistic to date, but papy made a few subtle changes to nr2002 and finally ending 
 with nr 2003. No wonder this game is fetching $100+ on ebay. What i like about papy games is the 
 fact they LIVED-BREATHED-ATE NASCAR and had the most realistic physics engine for stock car racing. 
 Also they did a good job of scaling the games so you could have an arcade to ultra realistic experience 
 all in one game. Attention to detail is where this game shines the most, spin the car out and your 
 tires will wear out fast! You must time your pitstops accordingly or you will run out of gas!!! 
 Also after many laps you will notice that your car is starting to get loose in the corners indicating 
 that your tires are wearing out. 
  
  One of the most fun aspects of the game is car setups, I have spent many hours tweaking setups 
 trying to achieve fast laptimes. And there is no better place to test out your setup as online 
 play, though now most online play involves direct ip as sierra has shutdown it's servers for this 
 game. The mod community is as strong as any game i have seen, many website dedicated to this game 
 so finding new content such as cars-tracks-setups etc are just a click away.
  
  I can easily see this game lasting another 5yrs or until ea loses the nascar license, it's a shame 
 though to think if papy had continued to make nascar sims what kind of game we would have on hand 
 right now.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkwolf1982
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 29, 2007 10:09 pm PT
Review:  I've played my fair share of Racing Games over the years, but none have ever been any more realistic 
 than Papyrus' NASCAR Racing series!
  NASCAR Racing has EVERYTHING I love in a racing game...
  From the Vehicle physics, surface and 
 environment conditions, right down to damage physics!
  I loved playing the Need For Speed series especially when EA introduced performance affecting damage 
 (in NFS4 - NFS6) which made it all part of the challenge. When NFS7 came out I was very disappointed 
 because they took a massive step backwards from the direction NFS was taking (and that was awesome 
 btw) .
  I remember playing the original game of NASCAR Racing before NFS ever came out and MAN was that 
 COOL! Being a kid... Yeah! Love the mayhem you could cause in this game! As I got older it was 
 that challenge of staying in one piece and winning the race!
  Haven't place any of the installments between the original and 2003 but when I first played it... 
 IMO I found it to be ten times better than the original!
  Oh yeah that's the other thing I love about NASCAR Racing... PAINTSHOP!
  And that got a whole 
 lot better with just easy and flexible you could whip up a seriously cool paint job for your cars!
 
  
  Papyrus' NASCAR Racing series is THE BOMB! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -METAL-HEART-
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 6, 2007 7:19 am PT
Review:  After three hours of practicing and swearing I finally got a hold of this game! Very hard game 
 to play. You must stay focused every second playing this game. Graphics are good and sounds too. 
 If I must find something bad of this game, i&acute; d say that there is no choise to change freely 
 the steering keys as I would wanted and driving in to the pit is annoyingly hard. Some options 
 like Car&acute; s setup is quite hard for those who doesn&acute; t understand english so well. Thought 
 that Geoff Grammonds Grand Prix-series were hard but after I played this they feels easy. Probably 
 I will play this game for a long time. If you want a serious simulation driving game, buy this! 
 This isn&acute; t a best game to buy for children! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thrac_Warrior
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 28, 2007 11:21 am PT
Review:  Nascar Racing 2003 is the best game for the PC If you want the true going left experience. Graphics 
 are solid and 42 cars showing on a track with high graphics setting produces a meaty 45-55 FPS 
 On a Geforce6600GT, The graphics settings have alot of customablity to so lower spec PC's can still 
 run the game great. The gameplay is fun and the difficulty can be adjusted just right to your level. 
 it's a shame from the 16th of August Sierra take down the Mulitplayer of this game as it was one 
 of it's highlights, The game does have 2 stand-out problems for me, the handling of the car on 
 non-speedway tracks is terrible, even on simulation. The AI is also not good as it will follow 
 a pre-set path and if your on it, it won't try to avoid you, it will just ram you and end your 
 race chances. Some music would be nice. Despite a few minor flaws and the annoying guy in the pits 
 who shouts at you every second on the default setting it's still worth checking out, you will probably 
 grow to it despite it's age 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Enjoi291
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 20, 2007 7:14 pm PT
Review:  Nascar Racing 2003 Season is simply said one of the best (And one of the only) True sims on the 
 market these days. So many times have gaming companys tried to out-perform Papyrus' Nr2003, and 
 have failed. EA Sports tried it with NSR (Great game but had too many downfalls) even rFactor was 
 an attempt at dethrowning it.
  
  Gameplay:
  The Gameplay in this Simulation is simply amazing. Amazing to the point that I am not even sure 
 that we can call it gameplay. The handling and setups are very realistic, although most people 
 do say that the game lacks grip. It is easy to get hooked on when playing, and you just can't put 
 the game back into its case. Online: Racing friends online is great. Probably the most fun thing 
 to do with this game. Sure, the Online-Coding could use some slight work as the occasional rub 
 will send someone spinning into the wall, but other than that, it is very realistic racing online, 
 and it allows for fun, clean racing.
  
  Single Player: Nothing to be impressed by, not all that fun. There is no fancy career mode, but 
 rather a single championship season mode where you run for one season, no catches and no glamour, 
 its racing nonstop. However, Racing the AI does make for some interesting wrecks with some game 
 updates and track editing *Grins*
  
  Graphics: Graphics are all up to your computer with this game. The cars look very life like along 
 with the track, on top notch computers, and on some older computers, you could still get the same 
 results, or close to it. Definately a thumbs up with this game.
  
  Diversity:
  This game is very diverse. With the game engine, many things can be created and added to the game 
 by outside players other than the game makers. Mod's such as the CTS, Busch, Indy Car, and even 
 Trans Am are able to be created with still keeping the great gameplay intact.
  
  Overall I will give this game a 8.5 because although it is the best sim racer on the market. There 
 are still a few things that could be updated and made better for gaming experience. Hopefully, 
 we will see another sim come some day with the caliber of this game (If not better) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: earnhardtfan77
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 26, 2007 11:38 am PT
Review:  i have just found this game a few days ago and i can not believe how much better it is then any 
 other nascar game out today... being 2007 and this is 2003... amazing... the wrecks in the game are 
 so realistic and the drafting on the restrictor plate racing... you can never pull away they are 
 always thier... controlling your car on pace laps and under caution and in the pit... the new game 
 for 360 is coming out in a month and they could not even get that into the game... but a 2003 game 
 could do it... this game is by far the best nascar game to date.... hands down 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bwdthunder
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 27, 2007 4:16 pm PT
Review:  Number one on my racing list, I've been playing this game since it first came out and it's really 
 hard to put away... every time I try something new, I always end up coming back to this in the 
 end.
  
  The mod community has supported this game with so many awesome tweaks, updates, addons and so much 
 more.
  
  If you have a force feedback steering wheel, you won't be disappointed... this game takes Force 
 Feedback and makes it count... great racing!
  
  it's a shame that papyrus went out of business, they made the greatest driving sims ever in my 
 eyes for the PC...
  
  get your hands on this if you can, it's out of print and I have a copy!!!!
  
  I don't believe 
 the Sierra online servers still support this game... so playing online in a public race is out 
 of the question cause of the age of the game... however there are still many leagues run on private 
 servers.
  
  R. I. P Papyrus... : ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flyer2359
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 14, 2007 2:04 pm PT
Review:  I find this game the best game because it has a lot of good features. It has a lot of graphics 
 options so you can make your framerate really good. Also the textures are really good and you can 
 download a lot of good and great content for this game like the car of tomorrow, bush series, truck 
 series and other types of cars. You can also download the new talladega track. The AI opponents 
 are also a lot smarter than they where in all of the other nasar racing games. They even follow 
 you now if you move into a faster lane and if you move into their lane they move into the other 
 lane. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dalejrgamer
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 28, 2007 8:26 am PT
Review:  Okay. After EA sold Papyrus out, Papy has left to rot. And since then, many NASCAR gamers complained 
 about EA's quality of their games, especially SimRacing.
  
  If you have $100+ to blow and a good computer that can at least play this, my friend, you have 
 just bought arguably one of the best sim racers in history.
  
  Graphically, it's good, but the damage modeling sucks (well, who cares?) . Tracks like Infineon, 
 Watkins Glen are graphically stunning (that is, of course, you have an Ailenware-type of a computer) . 
 Well, no one cares about the graphics, so let's move on.
  
  Gameplay is the only thing I'm focusing on. The physics in this game is very realistic. It's not 
 a stereotypical gas-brake-turn left-etc. It's more than that. This requires your upmost driving 
 skill. This game is not for the weak-minded. You will be blown away about how hard the controls 
 are actually are. That's why Papyrus was nice enough to put driving lessons in the game. Moral 
 of the story: it's a sim, and it works as it should be.
  
  What I can appluad is the versatility of the game. After you download the v1.2.0.1 patch (you have 
 to) , you can download mods for the game, which is other racing disciplines. You can find many mods 
 in a lot of websites. I have to applaud Project Wildfire (defunct now) for making a couple of the 
 most popular mods out there, which ranges from the Busch Series, to the Craftsman Trucks, to Trans-Am... I 
 also have to applaud The Pits (not the defunct online comic that we will miss) for providing the 
 AeroWar88 mod. This is purely fun. You can find driver updates in sites such as MasGrafx, TeamSBR, 
 and others. nr2k3. com has sites that has everything, from carsets to mods to tracks. Yes, tracks. 
 You always want to race a cup car in a non-Winston (now Nextel) Cup track, right?
  
  Sounds are realistic. The engine, crew chief, spotter, everything. This game utilizes every aspect 
 in the human body: L stamina, strength, hearing, etc. You have to listen for some problems, not 
 mute the game and pretend no one's there (except, of course, you're playing the IROC mod, which 
 needs no spotters) . There's even mods for spotters and stuff.
  
  Overall, this is one of the best sims to date, and probably the last sim you ever buy. I had to 
 dock a few points because at this time of writing, the only way to find this game is the online 
 shops. But it's worth spending loads of money on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nascarfan123
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 10, 2006 5:41 pm PT
Review:  How many games can more than double in value years after it is released? How many games can withstand 
 the test of time and still be very popular? How many games can offer a true unique experience no 
 matter how many times it is played? Only a few games can answer all of those questions with a yes, 
 and NASCAR Racing 2003 Season is one of those games that can.
  
  NASCAR Racing 2003 Season (NR2003 for short) has often been considered the Halo of simulation games. 
 For die-hard NASCAR fans it is the one game to have in order to get the whole NASCAR experience. 
 Also for people who play simulation games in the past sometimes say NR2003 is one of the best. 
 Why is it? Because of how realistic this game really is. Every track has a personality of its own. 
 When driving, the car responses will show everything. If you drive real aggressive the tires will 
 wear out faster, or if you slow yourself down to conserve you will be passed by other cars but 
 expect to pass them back when their tires wear out while yours are still good. When you are driving 
 by yourself you will be faster than a pack of cars racing side by side. If you are in a pack, it 
 will test your skill to be able to drive through it. Damage is very realistic, if you scrape the 
 wall at Daytona or Michigan your car will not handle right anymore. It doesnt take much to cause 
 you or someone else to spin. This game is so realistic is that many NASCAR Nextel Cup drivers like 
 Denny Hamlin, Carl Edwards, and Dale Jr. have referred to playing this game.
  
  NR2003 has 4 different driving modes: Testing Session, Single Race, Championship, and Multiplayer. 
 Testing session is really nothing more than to test car setups at a particular track. You will 
 be by yourself without any of the AI cars on the track and theres no time limit so you can spend 
 as much time as needed. The car setups, you can build your own setup from scratch or adjust current 
 setups that already exist in the game. You can copy setups from one track to another for tracks 
 that are similar like Daytona and Talladega. When it comes to adjusting car setups, it is very 
 detailed and very advanced, but hey do have help windows for those who are new to it. When you 
 are making a setup you can adjust virtually everything on the car from the suspension, aerodynamics, 
 etc. So now you are ready to race, theres single race mode. You can choose from any track in the 
 Nextel Cup series, also one fantasy track. Then youre able to set the race mode (arcade or simulation) , 
 field size, race length, AI difficulty, pit frequency, damage mode (realistic, arcade, or none) , 
 and even the weather conditions. When you are at the track you can run through the whole practice 
 sessions and qualifying, or skip directly to the race. So if you just want to qualify then race, 
 you can do that. If you really want a challenge skip qualifying and start the race from last. During 
 the race, or when the race is over you can go view the replays. You can view every car from virtually 
 every type of camera you can think of, which game can offers. Such views include TV, in car, bumper, 
 and helicopter views. So if a big wreck happened you can see what happened to every single car. 
 Another cool feature is if you crash out of the race you can still sit back and watch the race 
 progress to the end without you in it. So if you wanted you can see the race from beginning to 
 end.
  
  Ok now youve got some races under your belt, and youre ready to race for a championship. When 
 you create a new season you can configure it the same way you are able to configure a single race. 
 What stands out the most are the detailed statistics for the end of each race and the whole season. 
 When a race ends and you look back at the race results, it will tell you virtually everything. 
 Such things as race time, cautions, leaders, lead changes, start and finishing position for every 
 driver, laps led, and points earned. Then you can check the season standings which feature just 
 as much details. Including starts, poles, wins, top 5s, top 10s, DNFs, pointes earned, points 
 behind the leader, total laps completed, and total laps led. For both the race results and season 
 standings you can export the files and save them to your computer and show them off.
  
  The multiplayer content is just as good in NR2003 as any other race modes. You can race in a full 
 field of 43 cars online but you will most likely find yourself racing against about 20 guys. That 
 being said connection rates are still good. Although like any other online game you will encounter 
 people that will have issues and start to lag. Sometimes that can cause you to wreck even though 
 you didnt hit the other person. When you are in the server browser you can choose the type of 
 race you want based off the track, race length, etc., and for creating a server the same options 
 are available as they would be for a single race. The only difference is that some servers will 
 have rating restrictions. You will have 4 different track ratings: road course, short track, speedway, 
 and super speedway. All of them will start out at 0 and you can increase them up to 10. Another 
 rating you will have is laps per incident, and you want to keep this number as high as you can. 
 An incident can count as spinning yourself or another car, dropping debris, or a mechanical failure. 
 Eventually you may find yourself joining a racing league. A racing league can be a lot more fun 
 than just regular online because you will be able to race competitively against other people who 
 are experienced online. All in all multiplayer for NR2003 is a lot of fun.
  
  NR2003 is starting to look out of date. Thanks to the modding community, many people have made 
 higher-resolution cars that are up to date. If you spend a little time researching to find these 
 cars, you will be able to find the current Nextel Cup 2006 roster and drivers. So you will be able 
 to race against Dodge Chargers, Chevy Monte Carlos, and Ford Fusions. Many people have also made 
 updated track files. For example when the game was released Homestead was its old flat track style, 
 now people have made the new Homestead with the increased banking. While you are racing the track 
 and car details, such as shadows and reflections, look really good. When a crash happens, whether 
 you are in front of it, behind it, or in it, it looks very real. The smoke will blind you and damage 
 models also look pretty realistic. Also, have fun trying to drive a wrecked race car; especially 
 when your crushed hood is blocking your view. So for a game that is almost 4 years old, NR2003 
 still looks really great today even though it is below todays standards. NR2003 sounds just as 
 great today as it did when it was first released. When racing you will not only hear your engine, 
 but also hear the other cars around you, and sometimes the crowd in the stands. Your spotter and 
 crew chief will play a big role while racing. While you are driving, you almost have tunnel vision. 
 Therefore, you will need your spotter to tell you what is happing all around you; for the most 
 part he does a good job. Your crew chief will radio back to you when you make a change to the car 
 or tell you where the leaders are when you are pitting. Tires will squeal and bangs between hitting 
 cars or the wall will sound real. Everything sounds different from each other, which is a good 
 thing, and that makes NR2003 sound really great.
  
  If you want to get the full experience of driving a stock car youll definitely have to buy a steering 
 wheel for the game. Youll probably find a good one at around 90 to100 dollars. To add to the expense, 
 if you are just buying the game now your only source will be something like eBay or Amazon. Since 
 this game has stopped being manufactured, expect to pay 75 to 100 dollars on the game. So if you 
 are a die-hard NASCAR fan, expect to pay anywhere between 100 to 200 dollars on this game. Again 
 that is if you are buying both the game and a steering wheel for the first time. It is still worth 
 buying unless you are just a genuine fan and not needing the full experience. NASCAR Racing 2003 
 Season is almost 4 years old. Thanks to the modding community and NASCAR fans everywhere the game 
 is still alive and is more valuable today that it was on its initial release. Since this game, 
 only one other attempt has been made to give everybody a NASCAR simulation, and it did not fulfill 
 everybodys needs like this game did. Hopefully in the future we will see another NASCAR simulation 
 like this game that could make better of where this game leaves off. Until then long live NASCAR 
 Racing 2003 Season. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JumboBumbo
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 30, 2006 1:33 am PT
Review:  3 years Old.
  This game is nothing... But Perfect Nothing can be done to improve this game You can have 43 humans 
 online or 20 humans and 23 computer
  I Hope a 2007 COT mod comes out for this game
  
  It sucked EA signed the thing with NASCAR - Also if you dont have a wheel or dont plan on buying 
 one than dont get this game its near impossible to be good with the keyboard...... Also Play the 
 CTS mod with the actual Body Models and templates instead of just the generic one EA has
  
  I could make a better racing game myself than the ones from EA 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wigglr87
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 16, 2006 1:28 pm PT
Review:  Increddible, Abosolutely incredible. Watching EAs monopoly of Nascar games is horrible. If you 
 want a relistic nascar game then this is the one for you. it is just like driving a real race car. 
 The options to setup your car are endless,. if you are a race car driver, sim racer, or a nascar 
 fan this is a must have. the ionline multiplayer. the realism. great. the only cons are is that 
 is is too hard for younger players and it is exspensive. If you try hard you can get a copy for 
 about 80 bucks. Many copys go upwards of 400 dollars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DancingSoda
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 20, 2006 7:16 pm PT
Review:  This, by far, is THE BEST NASCAR sim out for any system right now, even though its going on 3 years 
 old. Just the depth of the game is amazing. The physics, sounds, AI's, gameplay and just about 
 everything this game has to offer is amazing. Even though Papyrus lost the rights to make NASCAR 
 games due to EA buying out the rights, a lot of people still use this game, Dale Jr. , Carl Edwards, 
 Truex Jr, Denny Hamlin, and those are only a few of the Nextel drivers that use the sim to improve 
 how they do on the track. If you have a good graphics card, this is the game to buy. You could 
 probably find it on eBay for anywhere from $75 to $150 depending on your luck. All in all this 
 game kicks you-know-what on the PC and is a definite buy for any hardcore NASCAR fan that wants 
 to bring their experience to the next level.
  And the online multiplayer is amazing, with a full 43 car field anything can happen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EAfan90
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 3, 2007 2:12 pm PT
Review:  Those of you that are familiar with the history of Papyrus shouldn't be surprised by the amount 
 of praise they got for releasing this game. To this date, this is the best NASCAR simulation to 
 date, and one of the best simulations of all-time. Papyrus promised to make the best Nascar sim 
 ever with this game and what a resounding success it has been. (Nascar SimRacing from EA was a 
 different story, after failing to get a patch out or support the community.)
  
  So just how realistic is NR2003? There's a list of drivers who use this game to practice their 
 performance in real life. To get them out of the way, let's start with the glitches in the physics. 
 The most noticable one is how the cars flip. Very rarely does a car get airborne from getting spun 
 backwards at a rapid speed, which is how it should be. The most common way a car should flip is 
 when hit by another car, which is rarely the case in real life. Also, when the cars flip, they 
 REALLY flip. Even at lower speeds a car will often flip five or six times before coming to a stop. 
 Also when cars hit the wall they tend to stick rather strangely at times. And other issues with 
 the physics, well... that's really it. Some people complain this game is too hard, but hey, this 
 is as close as it gets to the real thing. You'll have to choose how hard to push your car each 
 race. Pushing it hard may get you to the front but it will wear out your tires fast, and you may 
 soon be out of contention just because you didn't know the limit. And you know how EA's Nascar 
 games will put you into your pit stall, as long as you get close enough? That isn't the case here. 
 If you pit too close to the pit wall, your crew won't be able to change your left side tires. And 
 if you overshoot your pit stall, you better back up because it won't be done for you. And finding 
 the limit with these cars takes a lot of time. Being too aggressive with the gas and brake will 
 quickly put your car in the wall. Keep in mind your driving a 3500 pound car with 850 horsepower. 
 It will NOT be easy to control. And for those of you who struggle to get the right feel of how 
 to work the gas and brake can go to Talledega or Daytona and mash the gas all the way around... except 
 for one thing. Restrictor plate racing is very tight and intense. Papyrus has nailed it like no 
 one else with the differences between restricted engines and full-power. Ah, I could go on forever 
 about how realistic these physics are. If I were to cover everything that makes this game great, 
 Gamespot would put a limit on how long our reviews were. The bottom line is, this game is so realistic 
 that pros like Denny Hamlin, Dale Jr., Martin Truex, Ryan Newman, and Jerry Nedeau use to practice.
 
  
  As for graphics, Papyrus has never been real big on the quality of their textures or track objects. 
 Nevertheless, on a good computer this game still looks wonderful. Updated track and car textures 
 are available all over the internet. The updated graphics look so good that you would swear it's 
 Nascar SimRacing. However, for those of us with lower end computers, we're stuck with the standard 
 graphics. And unfortunately. framerate issues are all too common at times. I only have a 64 MB 
 video card and struggle to get a framerate above 30 depending on how many cars are on the screen.
 
  
  The original sounds in this game were good, especially in the cockpit. When you hit the gas it 
 really sounded like an 850 hp car taking off. Out of the cockpit I felt that the sound could use 
 some work, but now there are plenty of sound updates if you aren't satisfied with the original 
 sound packs. There are also spotter updates available from websites like www. dwarehouse. com.
  
  NR2003 truly redefines the term value. While the original only came with the 2003 Winston Cup 
 Season, tons of other updates are available. All Nextel Cup Seasons are available, along with huge 
 updates from Superspeedway. net. Other mods are available like 1988 and 1970 stock car mods, open 
 wheel mods (which actually aren't that good, considering this game is designed for stock cars) , 
 ASA, Arca Remax, Hooters, Busch series, Craftsman Truck, Trans Am, etc. The list goes on and on. 
 Each mod has its own characteristics that make it wortwhile. And I must say that the Busch mod 
 is spectacular. It's just what rookies need to get up to speed before trying Winston/Nextel Cup. 
 There's an unlimited amount of tracks available. Whether they're real or fictional, I've accumulated 
 over 50 tracks on my hard drive so far, including the 23 that came with the original. And for those 
 of you who thought the cars weren't aggressive enough at restrictor plate tracks will be satisfied 
 to know that there are several Artificial Intelligence updates to enhance their aggressiveness. 
 With graphical, sound, and physics updates for other mods, NR2003 put a smile on my face months 
 ago that still hasn't gone away. And for each of these mods there is multiplayer, and the only 
 real problem is that most people use the original Winston mod that came with the game. Either way, 
 Papyrus reigns with a wonderful online service. Online rankings limit what drivers can get into 
 your races, whether they're too good or not good enough. 42 cars can be filled in one room, while 
 a standard Nascar Thunder 2004 room only holds 16, and oh my gosh it is full of warps and lags, 
 even with DSL. NR2003 has minimal warps and provides a welcome experience for those who want full-on 
 realism with other fellow competitors. And you'll also discover that most online leagues use NR2003 
 over any other Nascar games.
  
  I wish Papyrus was still in business. If they were they would have the minor bugs in the physics 
 fixed in no time and add even more to an already wonderful series. I could probably pick out two 
 things that could make this game better. One would be real-time damage repairs. If I total the 
 back end it shouldn't be fixed in a two minute pit stop. Another addition I'd like to see is freedom 
 outside the car, much like what Netkar Pro has given to its users (game website is www. Netkar-pro. com) . 
 But other than this I have no reason to complain.
  
  If I haven't convinced you with this review that this game is really that good, look in the forums 
 and see how many links there are to this game. Also, try checking the prices on EBay, and compare 
 that the Nascar SimRacing.
  
  .... Did I mention I HATE EA for putting a great company out of business?
  
  For those of you 
 who didn't feel like reading all that, here's a brief summary.
  
  The Good:
  -The best physics in any racing game... ever. Few games can be compared to this.
  -There are so 
 many mods out there for graphics, sound, and even different kinds of cars. You'll spend countless 
 hours using all the addons.
  -The original sound was great, but now there's new sound packs that make it even better.
  -Incredibly 
 realistic tracks. Papyrus literally went down to the smallest bumps of each track to maximize realism.
 
  -Multiplayer is lag-free and has a ranking system to restrict who can enter which races. Plus, 
 hundreds of leagues use this game.
  
  The Bad:
  -Horrific framerate, unless you have a supercomputer.
  -Potential instability problems. There 
 are times where my game shuts off.
  -A. I. isn't all that realistic. They're somewhat robotic, and when there's a crash, they try driving 
 through at full speed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryb2
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 30, 2005 6:25 am PT
Review:  This is absoletly the best NASCAR game if your a nascar fan and a gammer this is the game to have 
 forget about EA with there arcade nascar games this is full on simulation with all the mods that 
 are out there im still playing this game years later the best part of this game is the online racing 
 but offline its still a very good game the game has driving aids that can be adjusted and refined 
 so that anyone can drive definatly if you can find this game buy it 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dacnar
Rating: 9
Date: May 8, 2005 12:41 am PT
Review:  I bought this straight out of the shipping box at the store when I first came out. It is probably 
 the most played game I have ever owned. The realism of this sim is the best I have come across 
 yet. While in simulation mode it can be quite a challenge, if you tough it out you will be able 
 to brag about some great racing. I also like the fact that just about everything that you can adjust 
 on a real car, you can adjust in the game. The varieties of adjustments to weather, computer driver 
 aggressiveness, ect. makes each race and season different from any other. To put the icing on the 
 cake, mods and tracks posted on the internet keep the sim fresh and competitive against even the 
 newest competition. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CSI24
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 25, 2005 2:55 am PT
Review:  I miss Papyrus alot and if EA hadn't of gotten exclusive rights to NASCAR then Papy would have 
 still been creating better and better NASCAR Sim Games, and just think about it what kind of NASCAR 
 Sim Games would we have today if EA wasn't so greedy, EA should just stop and let Papyrus have 
 exclusive rights to this and maybe Papyrus could bring back the F1 series games.
  
  Well let's get to the point Nascar Racing 2003 Season is and will be the best racing game of all 
 time, Papyrus went out with a big BANG!. The Gameplay is just amazing, if your really in to NASCAR 
 or if you like hardcore driving Sim's then you have to buy this game and enjoy it, but if you only 
 like driving cars than this is not the game for you, you have to know how to setup the cars to 
 be fast and even though this game is like 2-3 years old if you look hard enough websites out there 
 will have all the new updates for this game that you need, Paint Schemes, the Dodge Charger, templets, 
 New updated Carsets etc... so if you miss this game you can update it and still make it look and 
 feel like it's a new NASCAR Sim game and then you stop playing NASCAR Sim Racing and enjoy the 
 best sim racing game of all time.
  
  But Maybe in a few years EA will finally give up exclusive rights ith NASCAR and let Papyrus have 
 NASCAR back so we can have a real Sim Racing Game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: c_hodges
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 25, 2006 2:10 pm PT
Review:  This NASCAR sim is as real as you can get. Even though it's 2 years old, with all the updates and 
 Project Wildfire mods, this sim STILL is the benchmark for any future NASCAR sims. EA's futile 
 attempts at sims will always be overshadowed by Papyrus' success. 
  
  People complain that it is too hard to drive these cars..... that's the way it is! These cars are 
 NOT toys. They're 3400lb stock machines, setup to be as loose as possible and you're constantly 
 on the edge as you enter turns up to 200 mph. 
  
  Overall, this is the best NASCAR sim ever developed and will probably continue to hold its weight 
 for a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Katz
Rating: 5.5
Date: Aug 22, 2003 8:16 am PT
Review:  I have no kind words for the gameplay or value of this game. The game is to difficult to master. 
 Way to realistic for its own good. Younger players will not even be able to get started. If you 
 love to drive a simulated car around a simulated track with NO restriction then I guess this game 
 is for you. But beyond that The gameplay is useless, and down right frustrating. 
  
  The Create a car is... I don't even know where to start. You can paint your car with just about 
 any scheme IF you can figure out the controls that is. You darn near have to be and graphics art 
 major to paint a car. IF you want it to look halfway decent that is. 
  
  The bottom line is if you are thinking on getting this game download the demo first. 
  
  Katz 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
