-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: NASCAR Heat
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/driving/nascarheat/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep  5, 2000
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 8.3, 15 Review (s)
User Score: 8.3, 74 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Hasbro Interactive
Developer: Monster Games Inc.
Genre: Stock Car Racing
Date:     Sep 27, 2000
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
NASCAR Heat offers a brutally honest driving experience, but with simplistic damage modeling.

 NASCAR Heat offers a brutally honest driving experience, but with simplistic damage modeling. That's 
 too bad, because NASCAR Heat clearly had the potential to provide the most lifelike stock-car racing 
 experience available.   

  NASCAR Heat doesn't offer nearly the assortment of drivers that Papyrus' NASCAR Racing 3 offers 
 - only 26 drivers signed on the dotted line to be featured in the game, so when you're facing a 
 43-car field, you'll see a lot of fictional names at the bottom of the pack. And apparently there 
 was a bit of a problem regarding licensing from sponsors: Rusty Wallace and Dale Earnhardt's cars 
 are emblazoned with their names rather than Miller Lite and Budweiser logos respectively (users 
 have already created accurate cars with the game's built-in paint kit, however) . Thankfully, just 
 about every track on the Winston Cup circuit is included in the game - the only omissions are Indianapolis 
 and Pocono. In the game's championship mode, you can take part in every event based on the 2000 
 NASCAR season save two races at Pocono, the Brickyard 400, and a couple of sprints preceding the 
 Daytona 500.   

  Two features that set NASCAR Heat apart from all other stock-car sims are its "beat the heat" and 
 "race the pro" modes, and these manage to survive the game's totally forgiving damage modeling 
 better than the single race and championship modes. Beat the heat is basically a hands-on tutorial 
 that puts NASCAR novices in the cockpit at crucial points during races so that they can get quick 
 experience in various driving techniques. You can beat the first few sessions easily, but as you 
 move up the ladder, things get considerably tougher - the computer-controlled drivers are very 
 intelligent in these sequences, and they take much more care to avoid taps and bumps and generally 
 go all out to win. The race-the-pro mode challenges you to beat lap times turned in by NASCAR pros 
 who play NASCAR Heat. It's a lot more fun to beat a time set by a real person who's played the 
 same game you've played, rather than to simply use the sim to beat a real-life time.   

  Monster Games proved that it could create knockout graphics with Viper Racing, but it's outdone 
 itself with NASCAR Heat. Both the tracks and the cars feature virtually perfect textures and details, 
 including accurate shadows cast by grandstand fences and legible logos on tires. If you slam into 
 a wall, the marks stay there for the duration of the race, as do skid marks on the track. Smoke 
 effects also look great, and the game even simulates the effect of inertia, which you can see when 
 the driver's head - and the camera perspective - is pushed back during acceleration. This truly 
 makes you feel as if you're in the driver's seat, especially since the cockpit dash also looks 
 so realistic.   

  What adds to that sense of realism is the game's excellent simulation of how stock cars handle. 
 NASCAR Heat faithfully models downforce, which I learned the hard way after constantly sliding 
 out of turns at Martinsville - something I rarely did in either NASCAR Racing 3 or NASCAR 2000. 
 Furthermore, if you hit the garage and adjust things such as grille tape, wedges, and sway bars, 
 the effects are truly apparent on the track. There's a "normal" play mode that strips away all 
 this stuff, but expert mode just feels so right that even beginners should opt for it and simply 
 knock down the difficulty setting for the computer drivers. The only problem with the way your 
 car handles is that it seems to be more prone than computer-controlled cars to slide when it's 
 tapped by another car. I purposely nosed into Bobby Labonte's car as we raced side by side, and 
 it took ten seconds or so to finally force him off his line.   

  Unfortunately, NASCAR Heat really falls flat when it comes to simulating car damage, caution flags, 
 and a few other key areas. The developers clearly wanted to make the game appealing to new players 
 by toning down the damage model, but they toned it down far too much. It's bad enough that no attempt 
 was made to depict smashed hoods and crumpled fenders, but it gets worse: You can actually slide 
 down the track with the underside of your car scraping against a wall and then right yourself and 
 continue on your merry way as if nothing happened. About the only area that's realistic is engine 
 damage from overrevving - I blew the engine a couple of times after some injudicious gearbox-tweaking 
 in the garage. But aside from that, about the only way you'll wind up not finishing a race is to 
 turn around and hit someone head-on at 175 m. p. h. - and even that's not a sure thing.   

  Furthermore, though you can expect to spin out and wreck in your first few outings in expert mode 
 until you get a feel for how the cars respond, don't get overly concerned about seeing a lot of 
 yellow flags - it takes a real smash-up to bring one out. Again, this is clearly intended to let 
 players keep on racing without enduring constant yellows as they climb the learning curve, but 
 since there's an option to turn off all flags, it seems rather redundant. And while it's nice to 
 keep on racing, not many players want to do it for two hours at a stretch, which is your only option 
 if you plan to finish an entire race, since there's no way to save your game during competition. 
   

  Fortunately, the developers of NASCAR Heat have been fielding comments from fans and critics and 
 already have a patch that addresses some of these issues and a few other less-noticeable bugs. 
 But one thing that it doesn't resolve is the problem with multiplayer support: The only way to 
 find opponents is to use fan-made chat rooms and a clever user-created utility for finding NASCAR 
 Heat servers.   

  Yet even with its problems, NASCAR Heat's thoroughly immersive driving model is very enjoyable, 
 and even running practice laps or chasing the pros is practically worth the price of the game. 
 However, NASCAR racing fans who prefer consistent realism would be well advised to wait on the 
 patch before purchasing NASCAR Heat.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: AWKLINE
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 21, 2008 7:10 pm PT
Review:  NASCAR Heat made by Monster Gaming. It was the first 
  NASCAR game by them for the: PC, PS, and GBA. The PC was
  the best of course. 
  
  You are 
 able to download the demo of the game, and do a
  Race, Pro Trainer, and Beat The Heat, and get a filling of
  the game.
  
  The filling of the 
 game is pretty good, the sounds are
  great, but the damage is just to little. You hit the wall
  and you just get a scratch, and a 
 little dent. Also an
  other bad thing is, the cautions, you bearly get them, cars
  have to be thrown around the track to bring out one half
  the time. If you have a wheel, your 
 able to set up the
  steering, and such, and it fills pretty good. The car 
  snaps lose, and so ect. 
  
  The graphics are really good for
  a game made in 2000. They show 
 fans standing up, the cars
  are crisp, and clear.
  
  If you just have the demo, just go find some mods for the
  game, and it's a hole diffrent game. 
 You can get the COT,
  F1, Indy, and ect. You can also get the Org. tracks of the
  game from people who have the game. Some mods are great,
  and some others are not.
  
  If 
 you get good enough, and get some good setups for the
  tracks, you can join the NASCAR Heat Racing Leauge, which
  is ran by 3 people to keep it in order, 
 and they do a good
  job. They have Trucks Series, Busch, and Cup. The provide
  the mods for the series, and people help you out and get
  everything you need to run the series, 
 with only having the
  demo.
  
  Graphics:9 The graphics are pretty dang good for the year
  2000. Everything is crisp, and clear.
 
  
  Gameplay:9 Some mods are better then others. Some of them
  could take alot of skill to be compative with
  the computers, or against people online.
  
 
  Fill:9 The fill is great, the cars handle how they
  should.
  
  Final
  Score:9 If you have a decent computer, download the
  demo, get the mods, and have some fun with 
 the
  diffrent mods, all for free. (The best gameplay
  is with a wheel of course.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: easteast
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 3, 2007 2:00 pm PT
Review:  This is almost the exact same game that comes out every year. The crashes don't look realistic, 
 there aren't all that many unlockables, there's nothing to keep you going, and it's just plain 
 boring. The same thing over and over again is so repetitive. I can't say much more, I think I've 
 pretty much said it all and made my point clear. Let's see, not at 100 words yet, not yet either. 
 Well, that, what I just said, is pretty much as fun to read as it is to play this game. I do like 
 the franchise, but come on already! Add more to your games, people! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
