-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: NASCAR SimRacing
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/driving/nascar2005/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Newfound simulation approach works well.
 Frantic bumper-to-bumper action.
 Superb environmental variables.
 Convincing graphics and audio.
 Strong multiplayer Internet component.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Frustratingly slow, cumbersome menus and track loading procedures.
 Career not as fleshed out as it should be.
 Ridiculously small printed manual.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb 16, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 8.4, 18 Review (s)
User Score: 7.8, 669 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Games
Developer: EA Tiburon
Genre: Stock Car Racing
Date:     Feb 15, 2005
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
NASCAR SimRacing is approachable enough for newcomers and action racers yet challenging and believable 
 enough for ardent sim buffs. 

  With the doors at Papyrus Racing Games now firmly shuttered, and now that EA Sports has sewn up 
 exclusive rights to develop and publish NASCAR-branded games until the end of the current decade, 
 there's just one place for PC race fans to get their NASCAR fixes. Luckily for all concerned, that 
 place is none too shabby. In its latest stock car opus, NASCAR SimRacing, EA Sports offers just 
 about everything a racer could want (with the exception of a comprehensive printed manual) and 
 works hard to satiate the thirsts of both the action/arcade crowd and the generally more demanding 
 devotees of realistic/simulation competition. It has, for the most part, succeeded. Despite a few 
 quirks, NASCAR SimRacing is a very workable journey into all corners of the NASCAR world, and the 
 game's a real step forward for the EA Sports NASCAR franchise.  

          NASCAR SimRacing sports all the perks, colors, and logos of the real-life series.     

 
  Like prior EA NASCAR titles, and like most EA titles regardless of the genre, for that matter, 
 NASCAR SimRacing is a big, bold, brash and broad affair. And as expected, it sports full licensing 
 for that ultrarealistic faade that's helped EA become the gaming juggernaut it is today. Certainly, 
 if you want all the external NASCAR trappings, all the team and series sponsors, and all the appropriate 
 team colors and paint schemes, you've come to the right place.  

  The game features no fewer than 28 tracks, 25 of which are culled from the real-life NASCAR circuit 
 and three of which are pure fantasy. Nearly two dozen of them are ovals, but NASCAR SimRacing quickly 
 dispels the wrongful notion that if you've seen one oval track you've seen them all. Indeed, each 
 "roundy round" is a completely unique experience, from its character flaws (such as elevation variations, 
 bumps, and width deviations) to its length, degree of banking, rubber-blackened racing line, and 
 distinctive track surface.  

  You won't feel short of potential rides, either. More than five dozen vehicles and drivers are 
 offered spanning NASCAR's three most important "leagues": the National Series, the Craftsman Truck 
 Series, and the top-rung Nextel Cup Series. And, yes, there is some distinction between classes. 
 Surely you'll find yourself moving much quicker and feeling more exposed to danger in a Nextel 
 car than you would in a truck (which, of course, isn't a truck at all but is simply a slightly 
 less powerful purpose-built racecar with a truck shell) . By default, Nextel races are longer than 
 those in the other two classes, and they're sometimes held at different tracks. Indeed, the three 
 enclosed fantasy courses effectively take the place of Craftsman Truck and National tracks the 
 game development team couldn't model due to insufficient data.  

  Undoubtedly, since EA Sports is now the sole provider of NASCAR PC games and must now answer to 
 not only its already-established action/arcade fan base but also a legion of authenticity-craving 
 Papyrus veterans, the big question is whether NASCAR SimRacing satisfactorily models a realistic 
 stock car racing experience. The answer is yes.  

  Though it's no Grand Prix Legends in that it doesn't take the whole realism thing to frightening 
 new heights, it does offer an equivalent experience to the vaunted Papyrus physics model as seen 
 in that company's final NASCAR edition. You may not realize this, however, the first time you hit 
 the track, especially since by default the game activates a sweeping collection of aids designed 
 to simplify the experience for newcomers and "arcade" drivers. (Things become very different once 
 you start removing these aids, though.)  

  NASCAR SimRacing does not fall victim to the pitfalls that have so often marred other racing games 
 when they first ventured into the realm of simulation. Cars do not feel too loose, too tight, or 
 too bizarrely magnetized to some preordained driving line. They most definitely ride upon four 
 unique points, and their power-to-weight ratio seems bang on. If you get a little squirrelly, you 
 can usually catch it if you exercise moderation and pay attention. If you don't, or if you keep 
 a death grip on the stick, you're history. Much of your time will be spent preparing for turns, 
 correcting yourself during them, and trying to slowly reel in and hopefully move smoothly past 
 your peers. Fast oval setups pull noticeably to the left, and cold tires must warm sufficiently 
 before you can really start moving around out there.  

  One complaint likely to rear its head over the course of the next few weeks and months is that 
 the development team perhaps didn't go far enough. Even when all driver's aids are removed and 
 difficulty levels are cranked, hardcore experts will likely wish for just a little more danger, 
 just a bit more skittishness, and just a tad of that "edge of the envelope" feeling. But handling 
 physics are just one part of the equation. The racing action must also be up to snuff, and indeed 
 it is. In fact, NASCAR SimRacing delivers some of the best up close bumper-to-bumper dicing to 
 ever grace the PC environment. In this game, drafting is critical... and the closer the better. 

          The game never leaves you wanting for important information, even in its external views. 
     

  It's good then that the artificially intelligent drivers are both talented and skillfully aware 
 of your presence. The truth is that they go out of their ways to avoid bopping you if you've done 
 something stupid. And that's good news, because there's nothing worse than a great race ending 
 suddenly and prematurely because of one microscopic slipup that probably wouldn't have occurred 
 had you been in a real car on a real track.  

  This keen awareness is perhaps nowhere more evident than during those few milliseconds after you've 
 passed a competitor in a turn and are then trying to gather your own car without grazing your competitor's 
 nose with your tail. In the Papyrus version of NASCAR, this was always an inordinately difficult 
 situation, often resulting in a rear-end nudge and a subsequent spin. In NASCAR SimRacing, a passed 
 car is generally gracious enough to let you slot back into line. Even if you've pumped up the AI 
 aggression, you aren't forced to stare down a bunch of suicidal maniacs. We would have preferred 
 more independent collisions between AI vehicles, but maybe that will come in time.     

  Furthermore, those who  don't  occasionally bump and lean against competing cars will soon find 
 themselves languishing behind, at least when the difficulty level is high. Indeed, car-to-car contact 
 is common throughout, but it's an absolutely necessary part of the action if you want to win. More 
 to the point, though, it's fun. It's really, really fun, especially considering the game's physics 
 model permits car-to-car contact without activating a complete loss of adhesion. That's something 
 you didn't find in the Papyrus product.  

          The view from inside the cockpit is cramped and claustrophobic... just as it should be. 
     

  But if successfully competing at 95 or 100 percent difficulty is something you want to do, clean 
 driving and mastery of your car are just the starting points. You'll also need to learn how to 
 set up the darn game. The game offers a trio of default setups for each track, as well as three 
 more "basic" adjustments (speed, handling, and response) to help get newbies acclimatized. But 
 it also provides full garage facilities and sophisticated telemetry information for those who really 
 want to get their hands dirty building the cars they'll need to emerge victoriously at the highest 
 levels. And garage skill is an absolute must, as the game both enhances the capabilities of your 
 opponents and makes your own car a bit less perfect as you incrementally dial in higher difficulty 
 levels. Move from 85 to 95 percent difficulty, for example, and your once-smooth machine now redlines 
 halfway down the front straight.  

  Once you get the hang of things, you'll undoubtedly want to engage in the game's career mode. Here, 
 much of the silliness of past NASCAR Thunder careers has been eliminated in favor of a more subdued, 
 realistic approach. Clearly, you'll quickly understand the meaning of consistency. You can win 
 a ton of races, but if you're interspersing those victories with a fair share of sad-sack back-of-the-pack 
 finishes or wipeouts, then you'll never rise to the top.  

  Otherwise, the career mode veritably brims with the same elements and situations facing a real-world 
 team. Yet as promising as the concept seems from the outset, further investigation brings up holes. 
 Simply put, the game doesn't go as far as it should. Yes, you'll involve yourself in research and 
 development, thereby creating a much faster car, but it's all too easy. You merely dedicate funds 
 to a given aspect (power, torque, grip, or aerodynamics) and then wait for a given number of races 
 for that research to be completed. Applying more funds decreases the amount of time each new development 
 takes, but there's, unfortunately, nothing deeper underneath. In the end, it all seems repetitious. 

  The world of sponsor relations is little better. You merely sign up as many sponsors as you can, 
 and then you repeat the process as your contracts expire. There are no interesting asides, personality 
 conflicts, or backroom battles. Moreover, your reputation bounces around like the scenery at a 
 Hooters convention. We handily won three straight races and had top-dollar offers coming in from 
 everywhere. We then experienced a single midpack finish and watched as our suitors, including "Little 
 Tree Air Fresheners" for goodness sake, all but evaporated. We were informed that our reputation 
 had taken a real beating. Later, following an event where we purposely demolished virtually every 
 vehicle on the track, we were informed that our reputation had dropped "just a little." That's 
 just wrong.  

  Yet if you can overlook some of the periphery, the career is generally an enjoyable place to be. 
 Certainly it's a strong test of your overall ability. Additionally, several of the components are 
 better and more sensible than those described above, and the nifty magazine headlines that highlight 
 your latest triumphs are extremely cool.  

  As should be expected, especially given the visual beauty of EA's prior NASCAR efforts and the 
 legacy of great-looking Papyrus products that are now no more (in part due to EA's exclusive NASCAR 
 deal) , NASCAR SimRacing is beautiful to behold. When run at its full graphical prowess, the game 
 looks at least as good as the best NASCAR simulations to ever hit the market.  

  Apart from the true stars of the show -- those distinctive tracks, sponsors, and vehicles described 
 above -- NASCAR SimRacing is perhaps most graphically notable for its superb depiction of real-time 
 source-sensitive lighting and environmental conditions. Shadows from trackside objects move in 
 accordance with the position of the sun. Even inside your cockpit, objects are bathed in light, 
 then swamped by darkness. The black silhouettes under your opponent's cars swing to the right and 
 left and fore and aft as the herd roars around the track. Indeed, so sophisticated is the play 
 of grayscale variations on every nook and cranny of every vehicle that you'll swear you've been 
 transported to some sort of TV land.  

          Nothing worse than spilling your Cheerios.     

  Day evolves smoothly into night, cloudy 
 days become sunny, and all the while you'll witness the myriad subtle nuances that make the whole 
 thing believable, including fighter-jet flyovers, circling helicopters, camera-wielding blimps, 
 animated big-screen monitors, and all the offtrack periphery of a real event. Even the pit area 
 is a lively affair, complete with animated crews flitting around your car, crew members jostling 
 their pit boards, and more.  

  The game's overlaid display technology is excellent. Before each stint, you can decide if you want 
 a low, medium, or large heads-up display to accompany your exterior perspectives. By toggling the 
 lower F keys, you can summon all the critical facts and figures you need to properly manage your 
 race, as well as signal the crew for your next stop. And, as has always been the case in late-model 
 EA NASCAR titles, numerous other options are available to fine-tune your display and graphical 
 qualities to best suit your own unique preferences. You can even moderate the width of your field 
 of view and the scope of your driver's head movement.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (21 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: TunerSkyline92
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 27, 2007 8:06 am PT
Review:  Hello everyone! This game is very fun to play and challenge. You can go to test drive around with 
 different tracks. You can go to Race Now as not career. You can start the career to buy car, earn 
 point and take champion. You can edit length of race, 100 laps, 300 laps or full, etc. I love it 
 than Nascar Thunder 2003, 2004. Good games!
  
  List of series, Nextel Cup Series 2004, 2005. Craftsman Truck Series 2004. Busch Series 2004. But, 
 you can download somewhere to install Nextel Cup Series 2006, 2007 and Craftsman Truck Series 2005. 
 More fun with new mods of series.
  
  This game is good, fun and enjoyable to play. Worthly to play, through.
  
  You may ask me why 
 I rated worst on sound, because I am deaf and I cant heard everything.
  
  Thanks for read! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skyyfox1
Rating: 5.7
Date: Jun 30, 2007 5:43 am PT
Review:  ok you can race on just about any track you can think of. that is good. but i don't know if i misread 
 the manual or what but there doesn't seem to be a hot-key for changing camera angles! so you are 
 stuck in cockpit or chase camera unless you go back to the menu and change it. another thing i 
 don't like is you can't see your driver while playing in chase view. this is very annoying. almost 
 all racing games have this feature. so it looks kinda like a crappy ps2 game. they should have 
 put a little more effort into making this game more realistic. if you race with the chase camera, 
 all you have is your car in front of you that bareley moves while you are racing and this big blob 
 that is supposed to be a shadow. pretty lame. in my opinion, nascar racing season 2002 is the best 
 all time nascar racing game. it unfortunately hasn't been patched to work on newer machines. too 
 bad. now i wish i had kept my old computer to play nascar racing season 2002! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrronhutch
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 19, 2007 7:27 pm PT
Review:  I really like this game. I find you really get the feel your driving a NASCAR. I am a big NASCAR 
 fan and watch just about every race on TV. I find after watching the race on T. V. I can really 
 get into this game. I had NASCAR 2003 but find this one more like driving a real NASCAR but I guess 
 there is always room for improvement but this game is superb though. I bought the EA. Sports 06 
 Collection and NASCAR sim Racing come in the set of 5 games and I am not disappointed with my purchase 
 of $35.00 for the set a real bargain if you asked me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nate99924
Rating: 3.4
Date: May 8, 2007 7:50 pm PT
Review:  this game is bad. the crashes r LAME i but NASCAR games so i can crash dramaticly like in  
 NOT BUY PLZ DO NOT BUY DO NOT BUY DO NOT BUY PLZ DO NOT BUY THIS GAME IS POOPY realy it is DO NOT 
 RENT DO NOT RENtDO NOT BUY the game is just another poopy NASCAR game from EA i HATE EA they stink 
 they make alot of games BUT THEY R NOT GOOD AT ALL..... i wish papyrus was around to save me from 
 EA so the game is bad i thot it was guna be good but it just is not fun at all 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dacnar
Rating: 4.6
Date: Mar 17, 2007 3:22 pm PT
Review:  While I am admittedly biased toward NASCAR Racing Season 2003, I made an effort to like this game. 
 The option to manage your R&amp; D and build cars is neat. The merchandising concept was new, but 
 seemed totally useless. The graphics were pretty good. Where this game fell short was in the gameplay. 
 Plain and simple. When the caution can fly while you are in the lead on the back stretch and you 
 still end up ahead of the pace car when you come around, there is a problem. Then on top of that 
 you get black flagged?! Gimme a break! I have even gotten black flagged and disqualified for who 
 knows what in a half a lap! How am I suppose to enjoy racing when a black flag is thrown out for 
 no apparent reason. I really did try to like this game, but I am going to stick to NASCAR Racing 
 Season 2003 until EA manages to get their act together and catch up to a four year old game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jakea69
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 29, 2006 11:25 am PT
Review:  NASCAR Sim Racing is a very good game with some problems. From the start this game isn't the greatest 
 in offline. The AI isn't the best they don't block, they don't go 3 wide on any tracks, and they 
 usally wreck half the time when going to pit road. Also they don't properly form a pacing line 
 while under caution. Sometimes you will be behind a car and they will never catch up to the rest 
 of the pack, so you will be on the backstretch while the rest of the field takes the green flag 
 at the start/finish line. They are good in some ways though. If you get out front at Daytona/Talladega 
 they will bump draft you. Road Coarses with the AI are pretty fun and I've never had trouble at 
 Watkins Glen or Infineon. I never play career mode in this because the newest patch never added 
 the Dodge Charger into the career mode properly. But other than that this game is a very fun sim. 
 90% of the time I'm on a 56k connection so I usally don't play online to much. When I have the 
 racing was really good and cautions seemed to work fine. The graphics in this game are nice, although 
 one big thing thats missing is a proper damage model, if your car gets damaged the body will just 
 have a big dent in it, no real paint scrapes, tire rubs. Other than that graphics are nice and 
 even make my Geforce 5900 chug in a field of 43 cars. One of the best things that makes this game 
 worth playing are the mods, carsets, tracks that are availble online. Updating the game to a perfect 
 2006 NASCAR Game with all the 2006 cars. www. bhmotorsports. com has alot of updates/paintschemes 
 for this game. Also try www. teamcgw. com and www. nsrpaintzone. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperRacerC91
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 9, 2006 8:48 pm PT
Review:  Ok so I'm a huge NASCAR fan, and in the lack of NASCAR games on the 360 needed something to keep 
 me entertained. So I picked this up for $10 and said what could it hurt. Well it crushed my computer. 
 I loved the game but my system is so terrible that it just ripped it apart. I liked the gmae but 
 was never able to fully experience it. However from what I got out of it, it's a great NASCAR game. 
 You need a strong PC to run this, but when that's in the bag get ready to open up. You'll hit the 
 ground running in this Simracer, the graphics are incredibly life like. Probably the best I've 
 seen so far on the PC for NASCAR games. The controls are completely realistic and every part of 
 the car is able to be upgraded. You'll love this game if you like NASCAR. So go pick it up, it's 
 only $10 and if you got a nice system, there's no reason not to have this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Enjoi291
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 22, 2006 2:00 pm PT
Review:  
  Nascar Simracing ismuch like Nascar 2005: chase for the cup. There are some differences though, 
 mostly because Simracing is for PC. The Game physics are great , a minor hit to the wall wont effect 
 you to badly but if you slam the wall the cars aero will be hurt. There are many things that can 
 happen to the car. Tires can fly off , blown tires, blown motors , blown fuel cells, Even alot 
 of visual damage shows in this game. 
  
  The Career mode is awsome. It is based off of Nascar Thunder 2004 and is pretty much the same. 
 You can race the whole season as you try to earn wins for a championship. The Pack racing isnt 
 great but it will do for a computer game.
  
  The most fun feature of the game in my opinion is The online multiplayer , where you can play against 
 your freinds or new people you are meeting for the first time. The gameplay is pretty much the 
 same online as it is offline so you wont be disappointed. Although there are some troubles with 
 the frame rate, their are adjustments you can make, At any rate if you are looking for a good new 
 racing game buy this game you wont be sorry, then again this is the only "new" nascar game out. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GoKartRacer7
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 11, 2006 8:14 am PT
Review:  This game is so Awesome if you are ever on the internet racing look me up. My name on there is 
 Dirtbikedude243. Come Race we need more people racing online. So we need more people to come on 
 the game and go online cause there wasnt very many people last time i played which was yesterday 
 so we need more people to come race!!!! So the graphics are awesome i think that everyone should 
 give this game a 10. I was racing last night and i didnt see a car beside me i heard it roar past 
 me!!! It was awesome how the sound is it sounds so realistic!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MuDvAyNe_17
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 27, 2006 7:27 pm PT
Review:  First i wanna mention that the online gameplay is all out fun. You can play it all day and not 
 get bord. if u like driving / sim games its worth getting.
  To sumit this u have to have 100 words so ... aaa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a ..... aa a a a a a a a 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EAfan90
Rating: 5.7
Date: Nov 6, 2006 2:52 pm PT
Review:  From start to finish, the experience is so unsatisfying - no, make that infuriating . That was 
 in the review for Nascar Revolution back in 1998.
  
  From start to finish, the experience is so unsatisfying - no, make that infuriating . And that's 
 what I have to say about Nascar SimRacing. The game isn't absolutely terrible, but all the hype 
 for the game got me extremely excited, and I don't think I have ever been so disappointed in a 
 racing game, especially the ultimate Nascar simulation. I just can't believe how hyped EA got everyone 
 just to release this simulation. 
  
  Normally I agree with Gamespot's rankings, but this is one I totally disagree with. If you're a 
 casual racer you may enjoy this, but those looking for a real simulation should stick to Nascar 
 Racing 2003 Season by Papyrus. And if you don't believe me, look up different Nascar 2003 sites 
 and you'll discover that Dale Earnhardt Jr., Denny Hamlin, Jerry Nadeau and even Ryan Newman use 
 it to practice for real life. I never saw a pro use this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robindt
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 28, 2006 12:45 pm PT
Review:  I first want to comment on the physics of the game are excellent with practice I was able to handle 
 the race track and really get into the grove. My 5.1 sound system actually picked up on the on 
 coming car behind me before seeing it on my blind side which in turn brought up my defensive driving 
 skill by nature. The Garage custom setup to a the suspension, tire pressure, chassie rollbar, and 
 the center of gravity at different points within the vehicle gave the best trail runs with a real 
 feel of realtime changes to a race car. The enviorment changes are an experience of themselves, 
 directly affecting the cars handling and skills to maintian composure to overcome changes. Smoke 
 and debrie on the track made an actual sense of feeling a moment of panic, "Am I going to crash 
 and die"? I'm like that even in intense FPS, so this racing sim has real potential in an addictive 
 way, without being to aggressive and practicing showmenship (which makes better racing and a honest 
 game) . The only view to play this racing sim to get that sense of real racing is in behind the 
 wheel, cockpit view.
  The only disappointment was the controller setup within the menu of the game. It is limited to 
 only a few gamepads and mine was not listed, so I borrowed one to bring the game to life and better 
 control then default keyboard. The real feel of the sim racing would be a steering wheel setup 
 with trottle and brake, as mentioned, the car handed very good with the logictech gamepad.
  This racing sim will be on the top of my list as many hours of adrenaline and glued to the track 
 for hours and tweaking on the adjustments for best lap times and handleing.
  Robin-dale / trd55@hotmail. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ehobeckracing93
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 21, 2006 2:59 pm PT
Review:  I got this game in September and it rocks! The graphics are sort of bad, but everything else is 
 good. No, great! The only other bad thing is that is a computer version of NASCAR 2005. But, the 
 added features more than make up for it. The career feature is amazing. The game makes it seem 
 like you are the crew chief with telemetry. And, if that was not enough, it's in 5.1 Dolby Surround 
 Sound. I will be playing this game for a long, long, time. If you buy this game, you won't be disappointed. 
 It should be an instant classic, one that will be remembered as one of the greatest computer racing 
 games of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Madmax-driverpl
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 26, 2005 3:48 pm PT
Review:  I had 40 bucks laying around and i needed a good nascar  
 let me cut to the chase graphics are preety good but the gamlpay is awefull i accedently bumped 
 a car and in stead of spinning out he got pushe ahea [ even though i bumped him on the side of 
 his car ] really frustratingly hard in cereer mode .... tires pop to easily at bristol and the fact 
 of hitting the wall not very hard puts you out of the race Preety good sound but over all the game 
 sucked and i hope the next EA nascar games will be alot better  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SWIFT_1
Rating: 2
Date: Jun 30, 2005 11:54 pm PT
Review:  if you all feel as i do i will not buy there next game unless they let me trade in this one for 
 there next one. they need to feel it like we did on this one. in there back pocket. if you go out 
 and buy it then don't come in here crying about how bad it is. only we can make them come out with 
 a good game. you keep giving them you money why would they care? we sure see we can't believe, 
 what they say. it all up to us!!!! just maybe they will get all the guys that gave us such a good 
 game as papy nascar 2003. not the ones that didn't know what they were doing. yea it had problem 
 when it fist came out but nothing like this. not even there fisrt nascar game. i have read where 
 some of you say "well it's there first nascar game" come on bud it's not there first racing game. 
 it's like there madden 2005 game. i have gotten every one up to this year an i tried the espn football. 
 dam was i missing out on one great game until this year. to bad EA had to buy the rights to have 
 a better game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nascarfan123
Rating: 7.7
Date: Feb 10, 2007 11:03 am PT
Review:  To start off, this game does a better job of capturing real life racing in NASCAR; however, it 
 still feels a little like an arcade game to me. The Good
  The graphics on this game are some of the best I've seen in a NASCAR game. The AI are smart, they 
 know how to work together and let you know if you've messed up. One good thing is that they don't 
 go over the line almost wrecking themselves as they sometimes did in the console games. The career 
 mode is much better in this game. There is no friend/rival junk in there which is really nice. 
 The cars handle and feel pretty good and realistic, no problem there. One nice finishing touch 
 is their new garage. There you can customize your car anyway you want, nice job there.
  
  The Bad
  One of the things that have bugged me the most is that when you get something small, 
 like a flat tire, the game cuts to a short replay and your race is over. I understand that when 
 you blow your engine, but you can't even return to pit road and repair your car. I've also noticed 
 that the cars are capible of taking some damage without hurting the car in any way. Another thing 
 that has annoyed me is that when you go from one track to another, the AI difficulty handles very 
 different in each track. I started a career with 100% AI difficulty with 100% agressiveness. When 
 I go to one track, I qualify and finish 40th. Yet when I go to the next race, I'll win the pole 
 and the race. To me, the AI difficulty is not consistent from one race to another. I have a question 
 to EA: Why did you guys leave out Pocono speedway? Its my favorite track in NNC and also for those 
 who do notice it shortens the schedule from 36 to 34 races.
  
  For the next NASCAR SimRacing that EA plans to release, if they keep their great features in this 
 game as well as improve in the areas that need it, I am sure that it will be a great game. This 
 game just doesn't live up to where Papyrus left off, but it is a big improvement for EA. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vozzo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 5, 2005 11:19 pm PT
Review:  NASCAR SimRacing is truely the best game based on NASCAR to date. You get the 3 different NASCAR 
 series that are featured in the real world. Craftsman Truck, National Series, and the Nextel Series 
 are the three that you can play. If you do the Owner/Driver mode you start out in the Craftsman 
 truck series, slowly working your car up the ranks by winning races, getting sponsorships and buying 
 upgrades through your "Reasearch and Development" team.
  
  Everytime you win a race you get repuatation points and a set amount of money. Usually somewhere 
 between 30-80,000$. Your reputation points will get you sponsorship offers. Sponsorships will get 
 you money for placing somewhere in a race or winning a race or etc.
  
  The graphics are very nice. The cars look very real and the tracks look great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tomahawk43
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 23, 2005 7:48 pm PT
Review:  I have been a long time Papy and computer simulation racing supporter. I can remember where we 
 have come from NASCAR 1 and Indycar Racing. While undoubtly this games has some bugs and problems, 
 it is more likely to do with the need to make deadlines in the current day, rather than a legitimate 
 attempt on EA's part to get it right. Let's face it, even Papy often released numerous patches 
 before the game was 99% right. 
  
  I am running a machine, which according to the requirments, barely meets the min. (1.4ghz AMD, 
 512mb RAM, 64mb Geforce 3ti video card) . However, I can still run the game comfortably in 1024x768 
 with medium to high graphics (I get framerates between 25-30fps on medium and 17-25 on high) . Mind 
 you at 180mph, medium graphics looks quite striking and is problably better than anything else 
 out there. 
  
  There are some things that need to be patches, such as some caution flag issues, and the instant 
 kick out if you crash in of a career race (not only do I not have the option of restarting the 
 race unless I act very quickly (mind you if you can hit W within 2 seconds of the accident you 
 can still restart) but it automatically assumes the car can't be fixed even after a pretty minor 
 crash, and won't let you run for points. The difference between finishing 35 and 31 in a race could 
 mean the difference between 1 or 2 in points at the end of the season) . 
  
  The setups out of the box are decent, and with some minor tweeking are pretty competitive. There 
 can be some vast differences between practice times and race times, but you can still get an idea 
 of where you are. The physics are excellent (except for the damage model, which at times makes 
 me think I am driving a tinder box and not something pretty strong) . Start-up took a few minutes 
 (some people with NVIDIA cards and AMD processors might to have go back a few driver versions, 
 for some reason the 66 series drivers don't work right) and you need to make sure you have updated 
 to DirectX 9.0c (I had 9.0b and it would crash the game at startup, and the setup never prompted 
 me to update Directx)
  
  All things considered, it is an excellent start and has great potential with just a few minor patches.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: StangGT05
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 23, 2005 3:06 pm PT
Review:  I'm a long time Papy NR fan I have owned all the titles of the series!! But it's a new Day and 
 new dawning, quit living in the past and join the future!! For the very first time , I feel like 
 I am actually driving a 750HP stock car. The physics are awesome to me. I have NEVER been a fan 
 of EA's racing title's. I was worried when Papy quit producing NR series, cause I hated EA's Arcade 
 crap.. But this title is great. I welcome the fresh changes that it has. The sound is just plain 
 awesome. You can actually save yourself from a spin now without instantly crashing into the wall. 
 The drafting takes a little to get used too. 
  
  As with Daytona, you will get a run and all of a sudden be on or possible in the bumper of the 
 car in front of you. As far as the setups go, you can actually feel the differences each change 
 makes, it is taking me time to figure the setups out, cause in the past I just download other's. 
 I better at driving then setup... But the garage is well thought out. The intro's to each race 
 are really cool.. Also it finally has a Career mode, takes the game to a whole new level. before 
 if I crashed or had a bad race I could just back out and start over, but with this if you quite 
 the race, it markes you as finishing in 43rd place, and then you also have to repair your car in 
 career mode too. it puts a very nice twist on things. I am not sure what else to say, except if 
 you are a fan of Racing Sims, and you HAVE A open mind, I think you will find EA to have done a 
 pretty good job in their first Sim racing game. There are plenty of EA haters out there and those 
 folks will always be living in the "good Ol' Days" but if you are ready to move on and join the 
 rest of us in the present then pick up a copy, I doubt you will be that upset at the game, and 
 will find quite a bit of enjoyment in it. 
  
  Oh last note on Multi player, it has some glitches, but what doesn't?? in time with a patch they'll 
 iron out their issues, but it is still worth joining in on races. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GreyHairedGamer
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 20, 2005 3:49 am PT
Review:  First, one thing that really bothers me about reviews are those left as abysmal or perfect with 
 no comments. A review whether it nine or greater or two or less should have some comments left 
 with it. To many I hate EA or I love EA votes are placed on sporting games and skew the reader 
 rating.
  
  I believe that GameSpots review of this game is pretty much right on. I have been a long time 
 fan of Flight Simulators and I find that most driving simulators, unlike their flight simulator 
 counterparts, are nothing more then arcade games placed in framed pictures of a cars interior but 
 dont feel anything like driving a car. Where a flight simulator, such as Microsofts Flight Simulator 
 2004 or even more so Lock-On Modern Air Combat (LOMAC) , require you to have a very good understanding 
 aviation and in the case of LOMAC) you better understand more then just basic flying.
  
  What do my comments about flight simulators have to do with NASCAR RacingSim... a lot. 
  
  
 NASCAR RacingSim is a true racing simulator, not just an arcade racing game. It requires you to 
 come into the game with some basic racing knowledge and it further requires you to do more then 
 push the pedal and turn the wheel. The game makes you setup the car for each track and it makes 
 you learn how to squeak every bit of performance out of your car (or truck) based on the track 
 at hand. The first career race, Daytona, had me making minor adjustments over and over to find 
 the right setup for the best qualifying lap. It was not only educational but also fun to see what 
 the changes did.
  
  The graphics are amazing and really make you feel like you are on the track. The sound could have 
 been better. I had to lower the engine volume substantially to hear my spotter and crew chief.
 
  
  Gameplay is excellent, if you enjoy sports competition (racing particularly) you will love this. 
 
  
  I agree with cmiles, the entire online experience wasnt very pleasant especially the chat rooms. 
 I think a patch is needed here. This reminds me a lot of the problems that plagued C&C Generals 
 when it first came out.
  
  I would recommend this to any NASCAR or racing fan. I would also recommend this to anyone who enjoys 
 a real challenge like flight simulation. I wouldnt recommend this to someone who just wants to 
 plug in the wheel and drive youll be tired of it in minutes.
  
  I tested this on the following custom system, with all graphics settings maxed out.
  
  O/S: 
 Windows XP Professional
  CPU: Pentium 4 3.06
  RAM: 1 GB
  Video Card: NVIDIA GeForce4 Ti 4200 (128 MB)
  Sound Card: Sound Blaster Audigy 2
  
  Hope 
 this is helpful and remember you are never too old to play games!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cmiles
Rating: 6.6
Date: Feb 18, 2005 2:46 pm PT
Review:  Well buddy, am i dissapointed in this games final production? yes, pretty much i am. here are some 
 things that were very disturbing for me when i went to race online. (1) The main chat lobby coninuously 
 scrolls saying (player joined, player left) making it impossible to even talk to anyone. (2) the 
 interface is very un organized. First of all, the main lobby should have the availible races above 
 it, you shouldn't have to leave a chat server to go to a race server to see the races. (3) The 
 Garage area is pretty nice, but you have to go to a different tab to save or load a setup, wich 
 it should be right above all your tabs in the garage area. this can be confusing at times when 
 working on making a setup. (4) When you wreck it kicks you out of your car, enough said there. 
 (5) auto pit? come on guys this is lame, its soposed to be a sim! (6) the physics are nice. (6) 
 the graphics are pretty good but one thing is bugging me, no reflection map on the cars!? easy 
 fix.
  
  i give this "sim" a 6.5 out of 10 - needs work
  
  Graphics - 7.5
  physics - 8.5
  interface - 4
  online play - 6
  
  www. colbyjack. com 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
