-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: NASCAR Racing 2002 Season
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/driving/nascarracing2002season/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb 15, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.8
Critic Score: 8.7, 19 Review (s)
User Score: 8.6, 122 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sierra Entertainment
Developer: Papyrus
Genre: Stock Car Racing
Date:     Feb 14, 2002
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
NASCAR Racing 2002 Season proves once again that Papyrus is one of the most faithful and knowledgeable 
 purveyors of racing games on the planet. 

 It wasn't so very long ago that the only truly realistic PC racing games were Papyrus racing games. 
 Times have changed, of course, and now several development houses and publishers have access to 
 the concepts and programming know-how that turn run-of-the-mill arcade racers into deep and authentic 
 portrayals of motor sports. Still, with just a single product, Papyrus Design Group continues to 
 hold its own. The latest in its revered NASCAR series, NASCAR Racing 2002 Season, proves once again 
 that Papyrus is one of the most faithful and knowledgeable purveyors of racing games on the planet. 
 It also proves through a wide variety of new drivers' aids and tutorials that the hard-core Papyrus 
 team has finally made the series more accessible to the many rookie and arcade-schooled drivers 
 who once found the series prohibitively difficult. NASCAR 2002 is not the quantum leap ahead some 
 might have expected, nor is it free of flaws, yet it is another winning installment of what clearly 
 can be considered the standard-bearer of all racing simulations.           NASCAR 2002's Coca-Cola 
 fantasy track is pure speed.    

 As expected, NASCAR 2002 is licensed to the hilt and is consequently equipped with all the venues, 
 drivers, cars, paint schemes, and sponsors of the 2002 Winston Cup season. Perennial top finisher 
 Dale Jarrett is here, as are Bobby Labonte and Jeff Burton. Sizzling newcomer Tony Stewart brings 
 his #20 Home Depot Pontiac, and four-time Winston Cup champion Jeff Gordon pilots his #24 DuPont 
 Chevrolet. All the circuits from NASCAR 4 return for another go, including the high-speed monster 
 known as Talladega and the confining accident scene that is Bristol.   

  Whereas NASCAR 4 offered 21 circuits, NASCAR 2002 delivers three more for an impressively grand 
 total of 24. Included in the trio are the latest real-life Winston Cup additions of Chicagoland 
 Speedway and Kansas Speedway, both of which are near-identical 1.5-mile low-banked tri-ovals that 
 feel substantially more exciting during a race than they outwardly appear. Though Papyrus seemingly 
 hasn't endowed either with more than just a basic allotment of peripheral scenery, it has once 
 again managed to highlight the subtle track surface and banking variations that make these two 
 new NASCAR circuits as different as they can possibly be.   

  Conversely, the third and final new track is pure fantasy. Presumably named after a certain soda 
 pop of some renown, the Coca-Cola Superspeedway is undoubtedly where you'll want to head to determine 
 just how fast your virtual car can go. Featuring two monstrous 36-degree banked corners and two 
 massive straightaways, this imaginary and perfectly symmetrical facility asks only that you leave 
 your accelerator matted, the brake pedal untouched, and remain aware of how weightless you're going 
 to feel at such tremendous speeds. At Coca-Cola, a 240mph-plus top speed is not uncommon, nor is 
 three-abreast racing, and there's a very real likelihood that if you do crash, your momentum will 
 probably carry you for a half-mile or so until you eventually lurch to a stop. Certainly fans of 
 reverse-track racing and head-on multiple-car collisions now have a new marquee venue in which 
 to hone their craft and run up their destructive totals.   

  Yet it is the rookie driver, not the crash-happy renegade, who stands the most to gain from the 
 latest NASCAR. Apart from the usual collection of drivers' aids such as automatic clutches, antilock 
 brakes, traction control, simplified "arcade" mode, and unbreakable cars, NASCAR 2002 offers several 
 important and helpful new perks. The most significant addition is undoubtedly the game's driving 
 school component, a 10-lesson tutorial where newcomers will familiarize themselves with the essentials. 
 Addressing such issues as rules, pitting, car tuning, general driving skills, and even graphics-performance 
 maximization, the two-hour-plus driving school is a wonderful primer that is clearly not a last-minute 
 throw-in. Unfortunately, though all the lessons are fully narrated and definitely informative, 
 they are not interactive like those that accompany Electronic Arts' slick F1 series.           
 The paint shop lets you dress your car up any way you see fit.    

 NASCAR 2002 is also the very first NASCAR sim to offer complete tours of each and every facility. 
 Narrated by stock-car legend Darrell Waltrip, this is a particularly interesting place to turn 
 for both a general indoctrination and for guidance when certain circuits or sections of circuits 
 seem troubling. Rookie drivers will also appreciate NASCAR's new optimum-driving-line graphical 
 overlay, a colored on-track display that changes color to reflect braking and cautionary zones 
 and is positioned to indicate the ideal car placement. And certainly anyone who drives with a keyboard 
 will immediately take advantage of NASCAR's new digital steering-assistance function, which graduates 
 and tempers the usually violent responses that typically accompany non-analog keyboard control. 
   

  Veteran NASCAR aficionados may not be so easily impressed. Though the game does sport several interesting 
 new wrinkles that will impress the hard-core driver and enhance what was already an exceptional 
 experience, it is far from an entirely revamped product, nor does it totally clear up the few trouble 
 spots of past editions. Frame rate, for example, continues to be a problem. On the test system, 
 which includes normally capable components such as an Athlon XP 1600+ processor, a GeForce2 GTS 
 64MB video card, and 512MB RAM, we were hard pressed to maintain a smooth-flowing display in traffic 
 unless we first reduced several detail levels and dropped the resolution from the preferable 1024x768 
 to 800x600. It is disappointing that NASCAR once again forces you to choose between performance 
 and appearance.    

 The game's artificially intelligent competitors also continue to exhibit several of the quirks they've 
 displayed in the past. When running under a yellow flag, they appear disorganized and more than 
 willing to add to the mayhem by perpetrating low-speed crashes not only into each other but also 
 into their human peer. During un-flagged conditions, they absolutely refuse to crash on the game's 
 large, wide ovals, yet knock the stuffing out of one another again and again at short bullrings 
 such as Bristol. They'll maintain a robotic behavior for the first few laps of a race and, unless 
 interrupted by a crash, continue to motor along as a single entity within mere inches of each other's 
 bumper even after a half hour of hard racing. This sort of conduct is a bit too tight for even 
 the normally close-knit world of real-life NASCAR.           When things don't go according to 
 plan, the results can be downright frightening.    

 However, it is important to remember that such criticisms are valid only because Papyrus has failed 
 to iron out such relatively trivial foibles since the last edition of the game. In the big picture 
 and especially when compared to most other racing simulations, the NASCAR AI and in fact the entire 
 NASCAR driving experience are nothing less than superb. As is typical for the series, NASCAR 2002 
 generally portrays weight, momentum, and grip concerns and the ebb and flow of the surrounding 
 pack in an impeccable and highly realistic fashion unmatched anywhere in PC racing. Papyrus has 
 also emphasized the effects of drafting this time around so that drivers absolutely must moderate 
 their actions in relation to the proximity of nearby cars or find themselves out of the draft and 
 falling helplessly to the back of the field. And now, if and when you do happen to make your way 
 to the point, you'd best be prepared to fight off the constant advances of the cars tucked in behind 
 that are in turn taking advantage of the higher top speed a draft creates. Unless you pit a screaming 
 demon against low-grade competition, there will be no running away and hiding in this game.   

 
  There will, however, be loads of glorious sound effects. Though recent versions of NASCAR have 
 made vast audio strides, none have approached this level of quality and variety. Now, instead of 
 the familiar NASCAR Racing low-level roar, the engine sounds guttural and tortured and very, very 
 complex. The transmission delivers a symphony of audible burps and grinds. And the tires have never, 
 ever been this informative. Apart from the usual squeals and chirps you'll hear when you overdrive 
 a turn, they'll emit a low-level whirr as they carve through virtually any corner. The tighter 
 the turn, the more noticeably the tires complain.   

  NASCAR 2002 is also the prettiest NASCAR to date, but only by the slimmest of margins. The cars 
 do seem a bit cleaner and more capable of bent and warped body parts. The pavement looks grittier 
 and more detailed. Light sourcing seems slightly more realistic. Yet whatever on-track graphics 
 alterations have been enacted are perceptible only when conducting painstaking back-to-back tests 
 with NASCAR 4. Otherwise, Papyrus has definitely redesigned the game's off-track interfaces to 
 look more polished and professional. It has also added an option with which new drivers can remove 
 some of the more sophisticated menu items and thereby simplify their prerace setup process. Certainly 
 one of the game's most advantageous perks is the oh-so-welcome return of the instant race restart, 
 a function that's sadly been absent from the series since its earliest iterations. Now, drivers 
 are no longer forced to endure the entire race-reloading process should they make a grievous on-track 
 error. Instead, they'll merely click a button and immediately be placed back on the starting line 
 in a fresh, undamaged automobile.   

  Whether you opt to restart the race or soldier on, the NASCAR 2002 replay feature is more than 
 ready to accommodate the viewing of any number of laps or accidents. The NASCAR series has always 
 offered one of the finest replay suites in the business, giving you access to such amenities as 
 variable speed control, cutting and editing functions, and more camera perspectives than anyone 
 could ever fully explore. Yet the latest game raises the bar even further by letting drivers insert 
 sound files and still images to construct their own bizarre creation. Papyrus suggests placing 
 a dunce cap on your buddy's car after he's committed a serious boo-boo, a concept that will undoubtedly 
 be taken to heart by many in the NASCAR fraternity.           The snaking course at Sears Point 
 is always a serious test of your abilities.    

 Multiplayer NASCAR continues to support up to 42 human drivers via a network or Internet connection. 
 Dozens of races are seemingly available at any time of the day or night via Sierra's no-charge 
 online service, and most of them inevitably feature numerous talented and aggressive car jockeys. 
 As in NASCAR 4, drivers will be compelled to reduce graphics detail to a minimum or suffer through 
 a ton of warping, yet multiplayer NASCAR sports some of the most enjoyable human-vs.-human competition 
 currently available when played through a fast Internet connection and computer.   

  As has been the case since its 1994 introduction, NASCAR Racing remains one of the very finest 
 racing games on the market. Its latest version offers plenty of incentive for those who may have 
 been intimidated in the past, and its innovations should be enough to encourage many veterans to 
 come back for another go. However, if you're one of the many owners of NASCAR Racing 4, paying 
 $49.95 for what is in essence an elaborate revision may not be suitable when the next true upgrade 
 is undoubtedly already in the garage being prepped.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (3 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: agordplayer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 28, 2007 11:33 am PT
Review:  This is one of the most realistic nascar simulations i have ever played. The graphics is awsome. 
 Great Game Buy It. This is even better than the EA Sports nascar for the xbox. The damage is real. 
 One mistake on the track and youre crashed. This is one of the most realistic nascar simulations 
 i have ever played. The graphics is awsome. Great Game Buy It. This is even better than the EA 
 Sports nascar for the xbox. The damage is real. One mistake on the track and youre crashed. This 
 is one of the most realistic nascar simulations i have ever played. The graphics is awsome. Great 
 Game Buy It. This is even better than the EA Sports nascar for the xbox. The damage is real. One 
 mistake on the track and youre crashed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JumboBumbo
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 30, 2006 1:53 am PT
Review:  Awesome Game its better and cheaper than the EA games It is highly recomemded you dont get an EA 
 Game cause they really suck graohics arent good Gameplay Sucks sound not so great to expensive 
 it should be worth $5 for the New EA Nascar Games
  
  Nascar Racing 2002 Season is he Best NASCAR Game ever next to Nascar Racing 2003 Season
  If youre 
 planning on buying an EA Game you should rent it first and than you wont like the EA Games
  For Nascar Racing 2002 Season you can get 2006 cars and theres probably gping to be 2007 cars for 
 that game cause its really good 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woody_0609
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jan 10, 2006 4:55 pm PT
Review:  OK i dont really like it i guess its ok. I played it when i was 7 in my dads hockey teams dressing 
 room cause they had a big screen and a ps2 in it and that game. I really loved going backwards 
 in that game and crashing into other cars and making major explotions and just making other cars 
 get dented really bad. Its really funny watching the other cars doing flips or whatever when u 
 hit them. Thats really all i like doing in it or going backwards in multiplayer and crashing with 
 each other. And thats the only thing i liked 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
