-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: NASCAR Thunder 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/driving/nascar2004/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 23, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 7.9, 6 Review (s)
User Score: 7.4, 254 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Games
Genre: Stock Car Racing
Date:     Sep 16, 2003
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
NASCAR Thunder is a competent game that looks like it's only going to get better as time goes on. 
 

  In its latest horsepower-packed ode to stock cars, NASCAR Thunder 2004, Electronic Arts journeys 
 to a PC world blissfully free of a solid competitor. Papyrus' groundbreaking NASCAR Racing series 
 quietly departed earlier this year -- an unfortunate and much-mourned victim of spiraling licensing 
 costs -- and games like Hasbro's NASCAR Heat are now just a distant memory. To EA's credit, it hasn't 
 stood pat. Enlisting, for a second year, the services of Image Space, the same team responsible 
 for EA's critically acclaimed F1 Formula 1 simulation, it has upgraded and clearly improved upon 
 last year's questionable NASCAR Thunder 2003. Yet it hasn't quite raised the bar high enough to 
 make any serious sim driver forget about the NASCAR Racing series. As it sits, NASCAR Thunder is 
 a competent game that looks like it's only going to get better as time goes on.  

          The track textures at venues like Martinsville are absolutely stunning.     

  If you've 
 ever delved into the Papyrus series, you'll immediately be familiar with the general drill. The 
 game seeks to replicate the real-life NASCAR experience, sporting some 23 tracks from the top-level 
 Winston Cup circuit and one welcome old-timer: the hazardous circa-1950 Daytona beachfront course. 
 It features 60 current and legend NASCAR drivers, including present-day stars like Tony Stewart 
 and venerated old-timers like Richard Petty, Bill Elliott, Cale Yarborough, and the late great 
 Dale Earnhardt. Players can partake in test sessions, single events, and full seasons, and they 
 can choose from a plethora of difficulty and realism options, making the racing as difficult or 
 as relaxed as they wish. New for 2004 is the career mode, which introduces such elements as team 
 management, sponsorship hunting, and long-term strategy.  

  Complaints about last year's edition ranged far and wide, particularly from those who'd experienced 
 its console counterpart and wondered why perks like tutorials, quickie racing challenges, and car 
 detailing didn't make it to the PC port. Indeed, the game initially attracted a good deal of attention 
 from "arcade" racers, who expected a wilder, more multifaceted experience but were disappointed 
 when they didn't find it. At the same time, simulation fans weren't particularly enamored by the 
 reasonable yet somewhat lackadaisical physics modeling. In the end, NASCAR Thunder 2003 seemed 
 to alienate both camps.  

  This year, there's little doubt NASCAR Thunder is moving even further toward the simulation realm. 
 For better or worse, it once again excludes a number of the amenities found in the console version. 
 This year's PC iteration does not incorporate the console's 11 fantasy tracks, nor does it feature 
 goodies, like bonus rewards, Speed Zone minigames, or the Michael Waltrip-hosted Lightning Challenge -- all 
 of which can be accessed on the Xbox and PS2 editions. Why we can't have both a believable ride 
 and arcade fun is unknown, but NASCAR Thunder has clearly established a distinct PC-only path and 
 seems bent on gunning for the Papyrus crown.  

  To reach that plateau, ISI and EA must do one thing, above all else, and that's to believably mimic 
 the physics of a real stock car. Sure enough, one of the most noticeable upgrades is just that. 
 Though not quite up to Papyrus standards yet, the lively and convincing vehicle dynamic is almost 
 as impressive as that of ISI's F1 sims. Perhaps more importantly, it blows away the physics modeling 
 of any other stock car game currently on the market.  

  In NASCAR Thunder 2004, ISI has built a twitchy, realistic car model that demands your attention 
 at all times lest you find yourself eating the wall or the bumper of another vehicle. Certainly, 
 at its most difficult setting, the game forces you to keep your eyes on the road and your hands 
 in a state of perpetual, subtle motion as you struggle to moderate the powerful beast underneath 
 you. The effect of cold versus warm rubber is especially interesting. ISI may have gone a bit overboard 
 in this respect, but the truth is that oval racing would be a bit dull without such intrigue.  
 

  However, all is not yet perfect. The aerodynamics model, for one, needs fine-tuning. When real 
 NASCAR machines draft each other at superspeedways, like Daytona and Talladega, both the lead and 
 trailing cars take advantage of the corresponding speed boost. Yet in NASCAR Thunder, only the 
 trailing cars benefit from assisted acceleration. Thus, a drafting train will run at the same speed 
 as a car running solo, and that's just not right.  

  Another readily apparent quirk is the game's overly sensitive wheelspin coding. Even with a 700-horsepower 
 powerplant driving them, the tires of a Winston Cup car do not light up in third and/or fourth 
 gear. Yet they certainly do in NASCAR Thunder. Players can toggle on a number of driving aids, 
 like traction control, ABS, and steering assist, but extreme realism fans will have to bite the 
 bullet on this one.  

          NT2004's AI drivers are normally quite patient and are not prone to hazardous judgment 
 errors.     

  Contrarily, cars do respond nicely to garage modifications. In fact, gearheads can spend hours 
 tinkering with caster or track bar adjustments in an environment strikingly similar to that of 
 F1's vehicle setup component. Alternately, mechanical newbies can simply select one of three default 
 setups -- grip, race, or qualifying -- and head straight for the track. Those who want to take it just 
 a bit beyond the basics, without diving into the detailed mechanical minutiae of their actions, 
 can do so by manipulating a quartet of sliders that adjust overall balance, stiffness, acceleration, 
 and top speed.  

  The game's graphics engine is generally top-notch, particularly if you have the horsepower to run 
 this baby at 1024x768 resolution with 4X anti-aliasing and high detail levels. Above you, the skies 
 are alive with cloud movement. In fact, the chance of a sunny day growing heavily overcast is very 
 real indeed. Although it doesn't feature the compelling sun glare effects of NASCAR Racing, NASCAR 
 Thunder's lighting and shading effects are impressive nonetheless. The depiction of tire smoke 
 is particularly impressive.     

  The very first thing you'll probably notice when you initially jump behind the wheel is the incredibly 
 dramatic representation of the racing surface. In NASCAR Thunder 2004, the asphalt looks and  feels 
  fast and dangerous. Heavily detailed textures seem to jump right off the track at you, and the 
 sheer sensation of speed, as you fly over the rubber- and oil-stained racing groove, is unparalleled. 
 Furthermore, your car jostles over the bumps and irregularities, sending credible tactile sensations 
 back to you via the game's solid force-feedback engineering.  

          The view from inside the NASCAR Thunder cockpit is just as convincing as that of Papyrus' 
 NASCAR Racing.     

  Clearly, ISI has also taken great pains to upgrade circuit accuracy. Tracks like Watkins Glen -- which 
 bore little resemblance to its real-life counterpart in NASCAR Thunder 2003 -- are now depicted far 
 more faithfully and accurately. The actual cars are improved too, now looking every bit as attractive 
 as anything Papyrus ever concocted, both inside and out. All four manufacturers (Chevy, Pontiac, 
 Ford, and Dodge) are represented, and the subtle differences between each is carefully modeled. 
 On pit lane, animated crews perform up to EA's usual impressively realistic motion-captured standards, 
 and the various stalls are busy places indeed during scheduled pitting sessions.  

  Damage modeling is solid but not spectacular. Body panel damage is easily accrued and seems convincing 
 until you realize you've seen that same dent shape over and over again. Parts do fly off, on occasion, 
 but not enough for fans of Papyrus-style carnage. Stressed engines smoke and sometimes burst into 
 flames, yet tires rarely blow due to overheating. Instances of heavy wall contact may leave your 
 engine relatively unscathed, or it may inexplicably destroy it.  

  However, fans of true mayhem may feel somewhat underwhelmed. For reasons unknown, NASCAR Thunder 
 2004 instantaneously turfs you off the track and back to the race menu the moment it detects serious 
 car damage. Moreover, the replay halts at precisely the same time. Accordingly, you can't cause 
 a massive multicar wreck then sit back and watch the continuing havoc unfold.  

  Certainly one of the game's most annoyingly flawed components is its new career mode. To begin 
 your career, you enter a Winston Cup season with an undeveloped car and the tidy sum of 4 million 
 dollars. Through sponsorship income and race winnings, you attempt to fund time-sensitive R&amp; D 
 projects to bring your machine up to speed. You then build faster cars from this knowledge and 
 experience. Your initial car is so slow, however, that you won't stand a chance of finishing anything 
 but dead last when running against 100 percent AI opponents. This situation does not change markedly 
 as time goes by.  

  This is a terribly unrealistic implementation of a promising gameplay premise. In the real world, 
 no team would enter the Daytona 500 in a car that's certain to be lapped by the first pit stop. 
 Granted, you can always downgrade the AI strength to give your starter car a fighting chance for 
 a top-30 finish, but doing so means you'll begin wasting the competition when you ultimately do 
 manage to buy your way to a faster machine. Sadly, the AI strength slider can't be changed in career 
 mode after you've initially set it. Furthermore, the game won't allow you to run a second career 
 until the first has ended.  

  Apart from the aforementioned drafting issues, NASCAR Thunder's AI drivers are credible. They deliver 
 a consistent challenge and -- when adjusted to suit your individual skill and experience level -- offer 
 a solid and entertaining on-track battle from green to checkered flags. Both their speed and their 
 aggression levels can be tweaked at will, but even when set to fully aggressive, they aren't suicidal 
 and won't try to drive right through you to gain a spot. However, individual drivers do not react 
 emotionally to incidents as they purportedly do in this year's console version. They do not exact 
 horrible revenge after you've mistreated them nor do they appear to form friendships.  

  Happily, NASCAR Thunder delivers an adequate soundscape. Engine notes are certainly convincing, 
 although they're a bit synthetic when compared to the wonderfully guttural motor growl of NASCAR 
 Racing. Tire squeal is believable and informative, but crash effects are weak. Spotters and crew 
 chiefs are verbose and revealing, though a bit slow to respond. The most notable difference between 
 this and the Papyrus game is the audible feedback from competitor engines. Anyone who's ever raced 
 in the midst of a NASCAR Racing pack, as it hurtles through a fast-sweeping turn, will remember 
 that amazing reverberating roar of a thousand engines cascading from all around. NASCAR Thunder 
 doesn't yet capture that amazing sensation.  

          Though you aren't compelled to access it, the NASCAR Thunder garage is a deliciously complex 
 ad potentially beneficial place.     

  The game's multiplayer component is satisfactory, offering support for up to 16 drivers via LAN 
 and online. We connected easily to several Internet sessions from within the game and were pleasantly 
 surprised at the smooth frame rate and generally lag-free experience. That said, on more than one 
 occasion we'd watch opponent cars warping through walls and other scenery elements. Furthermore, 
 the advertised Gamespy support was inactive. This will, hopefully, be remedied by the release date. 

  When Papyrus departed the PC racing scene, it was a sad day indeed for those who believe the best 
 stock car racing is realistic stock car racing. Whether NASCAR Thunder will ever reach the lofty 
 heights of its Papyrus predecessor remains to be seen. Certainly EA has made it clear that the 
 game will continue to target the simulation crowd. In its current form, NASCAR Thunder is a promising 
 and, at times, fully captivating exercise that may soon attain the magical NASCAR Racing status. 
 Until then, it's certainly the best thing going for fans of an authentic NASCAR experience.    
  
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (5 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Brealytren
Rating: 2.3
Date: Mar 11, 2007 2:42 pm PT
Review:  This game is terrible! I don't even know why they would try to make the PC version. The console 
 versions are way better. Better graphics, better sound, better everything! If you win a race, woopie, 
 you win. There is no winners circle in this game, and if you are in carrer mode and win the championship, 
 you don't win anything! It just says you have won the championship. Also, you really can't race 
 the other drivers in the game. You get behind Dale Jr. to get in his draft and get about two feet 
 behind him and he freaks out, turning out of your way. In the console versions you can choose someone 
 you want to draft with and then you two can work together. You can't do that in this game! The 
 graphics are terrible; someone can rub up against you and there isn't a doughnut on the side! I 
 have Nascar 1999 for PS1 and it plays better! This game was a waste of time for EA, and a waste 
 for anyone who has played it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EAfan90
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jul 26, 2006 12:36 pm PT
Review:  The Good:
  -My wheel worked much better with this game than 2003 on PC.
  -Graphics look great if your computer can handle it.
  -Sound improved from 2003... sort of.
 
  -Career mode is ok.
  
  The Bad:
  -Still only 16 cars allowed in 1 online race.
  -Physics still just don't feel right. I mean, it's better than 2003 but I find Papyrus games so 
 much more playable.
  -Career mode is full of problems and confusion.
  
  Eh... look. Unless you enjoy collecting Nascar games (like me) , don't get this. It's better than 
 2003 on PC, but it just doesn't offer the thrill Papyrus (or any other racing game, actually) offers. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperRacerC91
Rating: 4
Date: Apr 1, 2006 5:58 pm PT
Review:  Now don't get me wrong but I love NASCAR and I am a huge fan, but EA did this game no justice. 
 With any type of setting , no matter how many times you modify it's settings, the car still steers 
 itself to the left, I can take turn 1 and 2 at talledega without even touching the steering wheel. 
 There is no real time damage counters or anything like that, and half the time your engine will 
 explode in the middle of the race with no warning, beacause of heavy driving. I really hate this 
 game and don't reccomend it to anyone. The online play sucks and usually won't even let you drive 
 because of some connection thing. There are some mods that try to make this game work better, but 
 they still fail at their job. If you want a great NASCAR game for the PC you have to buy NASCAR 
 SIMRACING. That is the game, I just bough mine off of Amazon. com for $10. So honestly please don't 
 go out and buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jeff4ever
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 28, 2005 12:11 pm PT
Review:  I find that NASCAR thunder 2004 Has alot to offer Especaily in the Carrer mode.
  
  Frist you Should take to the Track on Race now to get yourself caught up in the Action
  
  Next 
 you should go to the Thunder Lisence to get to know how to take the turns at diffent tracks.
  
  To start go to Carrer. You will start your carrer with all crapy Items and Cars but the point 
 of the game is to become a true star. Right now im the #43 Cherrios Dodge Driver and I have been 
 for 3 years in the game now. Its a hell of a lot o fun.
  
  To not give out all the good info on the game i will stop this Review here.
  
  The sound is 
 good really works for this game i give it a 10
  The gameplay is Excellent gives you a chance to be a real star igive it a 10
  The Grafix can 
 be inproved but they look great i give it a 8
  The Replay Value is High so i give that a 9
  
  All in all this is a Good game and its For the DIE HARD NASCAR fan in your life enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drejr
Rating: 4.5
Date: Sep 19, 2003 7:44 pm PT
Review:  Every year a new Nascar game is released by EA, I tell myself -- Maybe they will finally get it 
 right this time. Well, this year seems no different -- yet another big disappointment. My immediate 
 frustration is the "new" menu system that is more clumsy then ever. I found myself thumbing through 
 the skimpy manual several times just to find my way around the poorly designed interface. What 
 I most anticipated was the new replay system, which was a much needed addition following the short 
 replay "highlights" featured in Nascar Thunder 2003. Much to my dismay, the replays are recorded 
 during the race and can only be viewed by exiting the current race entirely and navigating to a 
 separate menu, where the maximum replay viewing time is 180 seconds. When your car is involved 
 in a major wreck during a race, the game immediately exits to the race menu, while the replay recording 
 is abruptly stopped. For those who enjoy reviewing major track incidents from various camera angles, 
 forget it. The replay stops when the action starts. This is a far cry from the full cinematic replay 
 controls of Papyrus's Nascar Season 2003, where you can sit back and review the entire race from 
 any angle. Also absent is any kind of paint shop to create custom cars. You can enter your own 
 name, but you must choose to drive an existing NASCAR Cup car. As for graphics, Nascar Thunder 
 2004 has a distinct advantage. Although somewhat grainy at times, the game renders an incredible 
 amount of detail and effects with minimal impact on framerates on my AMD 1800+ w/ATI Radeon 9700 
 PRO system. Damage effects are less dramatic, with vehicles deforming rather than shedding parts. 
 Sound quality was decent, but I sometimes experienced stuttering (although this may have been from 
 setting the number of sounds too high) . Using a cordless rumblepad for my controls, I can't speak 
 for those that use a steering wheel, but there are enough customizations and tweaks available to 
 accommodate anyone. As for multiplayer features, I haven't reviewed that aspect of the game. Despite 
 some strong points to this game, it is hard to overcome the difficult navigation, poor replay controls, 
 and lack of features commonly found on the console versions -- an all too familiar case of watered 
 down console games that are ported to the PC. Are PC and console game players from different planets? 
 I think not. Game developers need to rethink their marketing strategy for multi-platform games. 
 I own a PC and a PS2 and I expect the same level of features and gameplay. Perhaps the PS2 version 
 has more to offer? 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
