-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: NASCAR Racing 4
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/driving/nascarracing4/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb 20, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9.1
Critic Score: 8.9, 20 Review (s)
User Score: 8.6, 241 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sierra Entertainment
Developer: Papyrus
Genre: Stock Car Racing
Date:     Feb 6, 2001
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Minor blemishes aside, it is easily the finest stock car sim available and quite possibly the best 
 racing game to date. 

 It was 14 years ago that Dave Kaemmer founded Papyrus Design Group and began development of what 
 is generally regarded as the first realistic racing game for the PC, Indianapolis 500: The Simulation. 
 Since then, Papyrus has almost single-handedly defined what an automobile racing simulation should 
 be. Its latest project, NASCAR Racing 4, is the glorious culmination of years of experience and 
 expertise. Though it has occasional quirks, it is far superior to recent installments and makes 
 for an unquestionably outstanding racing experience for NASCAR fans.           The new, frightening 
 crashes can now send a car up into the air    

 NASCAR Racing 4 distinguishes itself from competing products in the same way Papyrus' simulations 
 always have -- through a faithful attention to realism. But NASCAR Racing 4 is far from just another 
 upgrade. The game features a new and vastly improved vehicle physics model that makes the once 
 impressive but now antiquated NASCAR Racing 2 and 3 cars seem like they were riding on rails. It 
 benefits from a new graphics engine that renders everything prior obsolete. In fact, everything 
 about NASCAR Racing 4 is state of the art, from the improved menu interfaces with pop-up tooltips 
 to the enhanced computer-driver artificial intelligence, the top-quality audio, and much more. 
   

  Like earlier iterations, NASCAR Racing 4 showcases the world of top-level stock car racing, the 
 Winston Cup series. It incorporates no fewer than 76 real-life drivers and cars, including such 
 luminaries as Jeff Gordon, Bobby Labonte, Mark Martin, and even the feared black #3 Goodwrench 
 GM of Dale Earnhardt, whose untimely death followed the release of the game. It features last year's 
 complete 21-track roster, including the Indianapolis Motor Speedway and the storied Daytona and 
 Pocono circuits, which make their first-ever appearance in a Papyrus title. And in a real move 
 forward for the venerable series, NASCAR Racing 4 offers all four body styles from the upcoming 
 2001 season -- now you may choose from the Chevrolet Monte Carlo, Pontiac Grand Prix, Ford Taurus, 
 or the new kid on the block, Dodge's sleek Intrepid R/T. Each is modeled accurately from bumper 
 to bumper.   

  For players new to the series, the latest NASCAR is less imposing than ever before. Rookies need 
 merely select a car and head to the options menu to activate the game's massive allotment of driving 
 aids. If any of the menu items seems confusing, a quick click of the right mouse button triggers 
 a pop-up explanation. Choose a comparatively relaxed circuit such as Michigan, define the driving 
 mode as "arcade," and keep the opponent strength to the default minimum of 70 percent.   

  Then it's off to the track, where you'll want to settle on a suitable viewing perspective before 
 continuing. NASCAR Racing 4 offers a total of four points of view, including a superb new hood 
 camera that eliminates the clutter of the cockpit interior while offering the subtle control of 
 a true first-person view. This may well become the perspective of choice for most players. At any 
 time, you can press the F key to check the frame rate or the V key to warp into an opponent's cockpit 
 and watch the work of a seasoned pro. You may even want to access a midrace replay to fully understand 
 why your driving line keeps propelling you into the wall. Unfortunately, Papyrus has inexplicably 
 eliminated NASCAR Racing's instant restart feature, thereby forcing you to live with serious accidents 
 or reload the entire event from the menu -- a frustratingly lengthy process on any computer. Fortunately, 
 such miscues are more than offset by the game's impressive list of graphical and practical upgrades. 
           The #32 car clips through the pavement -- one of the game's few graphical foibles    

 
 When series veterans get behind the wheel, the first thing they'll notice isn't the revolutionary 
 physics model, but the great new graphics engine. Papyrus has banished the boxy-looking cars of 
 previous versions and replaced them with stunning true-3D models that move about as a collection 
 of parts rather than as an inflexible mass. Now NASCAR Racing vehicles sport an active four-way 
 suspension that visibly tilts the car when weight transfers from side to side. They feature source-sensitive 
 lighting, awesome real-time shadows, and wheels and tires that look and behave like separate components. 
   

  In the event of a serious accident, NASCAR Racing 4 merges tried-and-true Papyrus damage modeling 
 with new vertical physics to create an unforgettable show. Cars are ripped from the ground if propelled 
 with sufficient force, authentically tumbling end-over-end or climbing safety fences before they 
 finally return to the pavement. Hoods buckle, fenders and bumpers crush, and hunks of bodywork 
 break off and violently fly about as they would in a real collision.   

  But even though the game handles its new airborne element exceptionally well -- cars stay aloft only 
 as long as real-world gravity would dictate -- the carnage still isn't quite as convincing as it 
 could be. Detached parts seemingly lose their mass once they've departed, thus letting oncoming 
 vehicles drive right through them as if they weren't even there. The flames you'd expect to see 
 erupt never materialize. And the game occasionally clips 3D objects through one another, merging 
 cars with cars and cars with walls instead of catapulting them away from one another. It is not 
 impossible to see a vehicle poke completely through a retaining wall or dip into the pavement as 
 if that pavement were liquid, then suddenly reappear several yards away. Fortunately, such incidents 
 seem limited only to severe collisions, which typically occur only if you go out of your way to 
 create them.    

 Outside the car, Papyrus has created a gritty environment that looks reasonable outside the normal 
 lines of vision but fantastic where it needs to be. The driving surface in particular is exemplary, 
 as it varies in color and texture from corner to corner and is pockmarked with patches and repairs. 
 Dirt and assorted debris bounce about appropriately, oily grooves form along the racing line, and 
 translucent smoke lingers for minutes after a burst motor or collision.           The new hood 
 cam permits the subtle control of a true first-person view    

 Of course, everything mentioned above looks much better on a powerful computer. Papyrus really aimed 
 high with NASCAR Racing 4 and enabled 32-bit color and resolutions as high as the fastest video 
 cards will support. With a 1GHz Athlon and a GeForce 2 GTS running at 1024x768 resolution, full-field 
 NASCAR Racing 4 oval races purred along smoothly. Road courses such as Watkins Glen seem a bit 
 more demanding, but the game rarely slows enough to affect performance. Even if your computer isn't 
 up to snuff, the graphics are still quite acceptable at a resolution of 640x480.   

  Unfortunately, the retail version of the game seems somewhat prone to lockups and crashes. On two 
 test machines, NASCAR Racing 4 locked up an average of once every couple of hours. Granted, fatal 
 errors occurred only when loading a track or switching out of the program -- never in the midst of 
 an event.   

  Nevertheless, NASCAR Racing veterans should be thrilled with what is arguably the game's most important 
 element, the physical on-track experience. NASCAR Racing 4 is noticeably more difficult than NASCAR 
 Racing 3, but at the same time, it's more interesting and not so taxing that you'll get frustrated. 
 In fact, it's a virtually perfect blend of driving realism and difficulty. According to NASCAR 
 Racing 4 senior engineer Shawn Nash, the physics engine used in the game is similar to that of 
 Papyrus' award-winning simulation, Grand Prix Legends. The developers did tweak certain features 
 after making precise measurements based on actual specs gleaned from NASCAR garages.   

  Most notably, the NASCAR Racing 4 vehicle model feels less attached to the racing surface than 
 the models of its predecessors. It rides upon the track on four distinct and unique points, each 
 of which is quite capable of individual reactions. You will spend more time sliding now. You will 
 spend more time adjusting for turns and correcting during them, especially if you're a habitual 
 late braker. And you will definitely spend more time trying to reel in your rear end, which slowly 
 pitches out when cornering speed is excessive. It is an exceptionally rigorous and exhilarating 
 experience.   

  On ovals, fast setups clearly pull to the left. On superspeedways, even minor bodywork damage will 
 upset aerodynamics and diminish top speed, giving your artificially intelligent opposition just 
 the break it needs. The NASCAR Racing series has continually offered strong computer opponents, 
 and that much hasn't changed in the latest version. Only now, they are an overtly aggressive bunch. 
 They'll counterattack when you've outbraked them into a turn, and you'll frequently be bumped and 
 even sent into a spin if you don't play it conservatively and give them the room they feel they 
 deserve. They'll chase you down the straight and tap you from the rear if you do something foolish -- or 
 even if you don't. Though it's undeniably annoying, such behavior certainly is in keeping with 
 real-life NASCAR action.           NASCAR Racing 4's newly-redone Sears Point is a true work of 
 art    

 In a true testament to their newfound humanity, computer drivers will no longer come to a dead stop 
 when blocked by a stalled or crashed car. Now, they'll move around obstacles intelligently and 
 quickly, thus solving one of NASCAR Racing's more enduring problems. They do remain robotic during 
 pace laps and the first few moments of a race, where their perfect side-by-side alignment seems 
 a bit too predetermined. However, they'll pull all sorts of realistic maneuvers after that, including 
 riding the apron to make a pass or initiating altercations with one another. The result is more 
 independent accidents, which is a welcome change.   

  Yet even the smartest artificial intelligence doesn't compare to the best human drivers. NASCAR 
 Racing 4 includes sophisticated multiplayer support that permits competition with more than 40 
 fellow enthusiasts on one of several online services. Performance does seem to vary according to 
 the number of players involved (and, in turn, the time of day) , but the thrill of racing real people 
 is worth the hassle. Your best bet is to play over a fast connection and during off-hours.   

 
  You'd also be well advised to run the game through a surround-sound audio setup, if only to fully 
 immerse yourself in the diversity of its authentic sound effects. Past versions don't even come 
 close to what Papyrus has prepared this time, particularly during collisions, when the sudden brutality 
 of such an event is effectively translated through an incredible array of gritty crunches and wallops. 
 Even at speed, the intermittent chirps of a blown gear, the scratch of a gentle brush with the 
 wall, the distinctive engine notes, and the assorted undercarriage pings and knocks all add much 
 to the experience.   

  The game is unfortunately bereft of a career mode, but it does sport the usual single race, testing 
 sessions, championship, and custom season options. The garage is as complex as ever, the paint 
 shop utility is even more refined, and the animated pit crew is atmospheric if still somewhat crude. 
 In final analysis, NASCAR Racing 4 is an enthusiastic and ambitious project that is worthy of any 
 oval lover's attention. Minor blemishes aside, it is easily the finest stock car sim available 
 and quite possibly the best racing game to date.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: DevDevBeck
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 23, 2008 9:08 am PT
Review:  NASCAR Racing 4 was a Christmas gift that I got in 2007. The Game was fun... I loved the damage 
 effects... but the controller wasn't the best.
  I can understand that professionals use this game, but when 13 year olds play it, You kinda want 
 easier controllers. For one, You can't use any of the keys on the Keyboard. you are restricted 
 to the F keys, the KP keys, and the misc buttons. 
  Aside from that dilemma, everything else about the game is great.
  Graphics: (9.0) Considiering 
 it came out in 2001, these graphics are truly amazing. The Smoke and Crash effects spectacular, 
 but one of my favororite things to do in the game is park on the back strech, wait for the cars 
 to come and then... BAM!!!
  Sound: (6.5) The sound isn't so good music wise. there is no music whatsoever in this game. The 
 engine noises and crew chief are good, but not as good as you expect from a papyrus game.
  This game is pretty good, but if you prefer the arrow key control... stick to NASCAR Simracing. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: steelersfan2
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 14, 2006 3:01 pm PT
Review:  Most of you have seen the NASCAR NEXTEL Cup Series drivers race cars in real life. 
  
  When the game begins, you're going to see an introductory movie that shows the cars driving from 
 the 2000 season. Although Dale Earnhardt died just days after NASCAR Racing 4 came out in 2001, 
 his car is in the game. Take a quick look at the billboards, and notice that "NASCAR Cup Series" 
 is printed instead of "NASCAR Winston Cup Series", as the nation's premier racing series was then 
 known in real-life. Here's why "NASCAR Cup Series" is used in this game: Because it's a Federal 
 crime to use tobacco, alcohol, or drugs in video games, toys, and computer games. Some of the cars 
 have sponsors like Dale Earnhardt Jr. and Team Rusty, for the same reason why "NASCAR Cup Series" 
 is used. The alcohol, tobacco, and drugs sponsors on some cars are used only in real-life. NASCAR 
 Racing 4 had the first license to make a NASCAR game based on the 2001 season, before EA SPORTS 
 received a license to make their own 2002 editions. Sierra paid big bucks to use those sponsors, 
 car manufacturers, likenesses, and speedways. NASCAR Racing 4 was the third racing game - after 
 NASCAR Heat (the second) , made by Hasbro Interactive; and NASCAR 2001 (the first) , another EA SPORTS 
 game - to have a license in order to put Daytona International Speedway in the game. Sierra's games 
 haven't been so realistic prior to NASCAR 2001. 
  
  Prior to NASCAR 2001, Sierra, like all other racing games before EA SPORTS launched NASCAR 2000, 
 used virtual pit crews, meaning that the pit crews sounded like one. NASCAR 2000 was unique with 
 their pit crew feature, giving it the moving crew that does work - rather than the virtual one.
 
  
  Look at the rear-view mirror, and you can use a certain button on the keyboard to adjust it. Real-life 
 drivers wish that they could adjust that mirror. 
  
  Unlike EA SPORTS, the cars are customizable. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
