-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Navy SEALs: Weapons of Mass Destruction
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/eliteforcesnavysealsweaponsofmassdestruction/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 11, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 1.6
Critic Score: 1.9, 5 Review (s)
User Score: 3.1, 210 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: ValuSoft
Developer: Jarhead Games
Genre: Modern First-Person...
Date:     Jul 18, 2003
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Some features apparently were cut from Navy SEALs: Weapons of Mass Destruction. In alphabetical 
 order, these are: gameplay, graphics, and sound. 

  Even good games usually put the design credits at the end, or at least place them in a separate 
 option off the main menu. ValuSoft's new budget-priced first-person shooter, Navy SEALs: Weapons 
 of Mass Destruction, lists the developers' names front and center during a movielike credit sequence 
 that plays during the opening cutscene. It's hard to imagine that anyone would want his or her 
 name prominently displayed on such an abysmal game, especially one whose only distinguishing feature 
 is that it's actually even worse than the awful game that preceded it, a contender for worst game 
 of last year, Elite Forces: Navy SEALs.  

          Enemy soldiers exhibiting a typical behavior: confusion.     

  The game takes place 
 across nine virtually plot-free levels in three global hotspots. The first six levels require you 
 to shoot the living daylights out of some stuff in Iraq and North Korea. Rather than go for the 
 logical axis-of-evil triad and set a few levels in Iran, the last three missions take place in 
 Pakistan, a country of as-yet-un-quantified evil, though people sometimes confuse it with Iraq, 
 which may explain why it was included here. Apparently, in order to get the game onto shelves while 
 its subject matter was still topical, some features were cut. In alphabetical order, these are: 
 gameplay, graphics, and sound.  

  As it turns out, missions that actually work were apparently another feature that had to be cut 
 from the game. We were forced to restart one of the Iraq levels a few times because we managed 
 to break the game's scripting in such a way that the mission became unbeatable. Later, we had to 
 restart the third North Korean level a few times because of what appeared to be another scripting 
 problem. In fact, we never managed to get through this mission. Because of this, we never saw any 
 of the Pakistan levels. Based on the available evidence -- Weapons of Mass Destruction's awful first 
 six levels and the abysmal entirety of the original Navy SEALs -- we're guessing that the parts of 
 the game that take place in Pakistan also really, really stink.  

  The game's box urges you to "exploit your enemy's weaknesses." If you had to pick just one weakness 
 to exploit, it would have to be absolutely everything that your enemies do. Even by the low standards 
 set by the worst first-person shooters in history, the enemy AI in Navy SEALs is bad. Enemy soldiers 
 will stand around while the guy right next to them dies screaming in a hail of bullets. Then they'll 
 stand around while they get shot. Sometimes they'll run from cover to open ground where they'll 
 stop and wait for you to shoot them.  

  A computer-controlled teammate accompanies you through each of the missions we played. His AI isn't 
 any better than the enemy's. Frequently, he'll run right up to an opposing soldier, at which point 
 they'll both decide to go on break and proceed to stand around doing nothing. He'll also mysteriously 
 disappear only to reappear somewhere ahead of you. In tight quarters, he'll sometimes push you 
 right through closed doors.  

          This environment is about four polygons short of being a completely flat plane.     

 
  In addition, the game's environments are bland and sparsely populated. Thanks to ugly, simple, 
 and repetitive textures, they're also monotonous. The developer apparently cut every graphical 
 corner it possibly could, short of setting each level on a completely featureless flatland. For 
 instance, in one mission, you have to find a pair of soldiers being held in an Iraqi prison. When 
 you finally run across them, each one is simply your teammate model with the gun geometry missing; 
 they're standing in place pointing an invisible weapon at the wall. One level that takes place 
 on a ship eliminates the need for a sky texture by simply making everything over the boat's rail 
 completely black.  

  The sound falls into three categories: missing, forgettable, and miscued. When you kill an enemy, 
 his dying scream lasts several seconds past the end his death animation. We didn't hear any music 
 while playing the game, which means either that there is no music or that the music is broken. 
 However, there's no such mystery about a multiplayer mode. Presumably on purpose, there isn't one. 

  According to the box, the game is "not approved, endorsed, or authorized by the United States Government." 
 It is our patriotic duty to announce that the game isn't approved or endorsed by GameSpot, either. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (14 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: sidd_cool
Rating: 1
Date: May 25, 2008 12:06 am PT
Review:  When enyone asks me about navy seals the reply to this is that "this is the most TERRIBLE game 
 i have ever played". This is a broken, hopeless, dissapointing and disastrous ever. This game starts 
 with our player and our teammate jumping from a plane without a parachute. We can only use a knife, pistol 
 and an unknown gun. Our teammate is a very irritating creature. He just bumps into the enemies doing 
 nothing. I was the one who had to take the trouble killing the enemies. The gameplay is a dissapointing 
 feature. We have to fight in a plane barren land or a stupid room. The most dissapointing thing is 
 that there is no story. We have been given some stupid objectives in a mission. The missions take 
 place in Iraq, Korea and Pakistan. There are ten boring levels. They tend to be very easy, but because 
 of the frustration, we find then a bit hard.
  The graphics are very dissapointing as we are in a barren land or a room. All the enemies look alike 
 as there are two kinds of enemies. One looks like Osama Bin Ladin and the other has a mask covering 
 his mouth. In some parts of the game you may find certain soldiers with rocket launchers. Their aim 
 is inaccurate. They just go on fireing. There are no trees or anything like that.
  The sound is also dissapointing as the enemies make some senseless sounds. Once there were two enemies 
 in a room. One was killed and he was screaming in pain and the other one is not even bothered about 
 him. Sometimes they may push you and go into another room and wait there, allowing you to kill them.
 
  There is no multiplayer mode. Once there were six enemies in a room five of them were killed and 
 the sixth one just passed through me and was waiting for me to kill him. The Magazines and a bullet 
 box provide us extra bullets.
  After finishing this game i felt sick. So, i am advicing you"DO NOT PLAY THIS GAME". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azghouls
Rating: 2.5
Date: May 19, 2008 11:32 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: 2
  Graphics: 2
  Sounds: 2
  Value: 4
  Tilt: 2
  
  Considering I was a student in Philosophy and Sociology, I remember a debate of if a person is 
 surrounded (or socialised) by fools would the person subconsciously 
 become a fool themselves? I stated (in a very convincing debate) that they will become one. Well 
 many years later I put this theory into practice. Bearing in mind that Im probably better 
 than the average FPS player I decided to play Navy Seals: Weapons of Mass 
 Destruction not for the reason that Navy Seals are cool (they probably are however Im 
 really not interested in becoming one) but if I played this game will my FPS skills 
 will deteriorate?
  
  My FPS forte currently is Unreal Tournament 2004 and Im pretty impressed with my results 
 so far in Quake III Arena. So using these two games as a base and by recently playing a couple 
 of my favourite maps I grabbed the average scores, recorded them then put these two games aside 
 and solely concentrate on Navy Seals. Lets see if my FPS skills depreciate.
 
  
  Booting up the game presents a very silent reception. Everything is quiet so having no speakers 
 maybe a consolation (as in having no speakers you will naturally expect no sounds) . Setting up 
 my key bindings posed no problems and referring to the blurb, I will be visiting the hotspots 
 of todays war zones being Iraq, North Korea and Pakistan (which involves the al Qaeda) doing 
 navy seals stuff. I will also have an extra navy seal on my side and even able to order him doing 
 two things: stay put/follow and fire at will/upon my orders. Very technical stuff however I feel 
 I can manage this.
  
  At the beginning of each mission (except the first) you also get a selection of distinctive navy 
 seal arms being the knife and pistol and the delicate choice of one of the following: H&K MP5SD 
 (technical term for a sub-machine gun) , M4 (assault rifle with a grenade launcher) and the M40 
 Sniper Rifle (ummm sniper rifle?) . As you can see, more daunting choices to be made.
  
  The game play is your typical run-of-the-mill shooter; you see an enemy, pull the trigger and occasionally 
 there will be some puzzles like pulling on levers and opening doors. The enemies are extremely 
 cunning as the AI has remarkable skills of going through walls and able to appear where a second 
 ago the area showed no signs of life. They can also shoot through walls and actually drive jeeps 
 whilst the jeep is not moving at all. You maybe call me insane however I have experienced all this 
 with my own two eyes. However I will not describe the other more frightening experiences as I fear 
 for my own sanity and well-being. Its best for me to suppress these thoughts.
  
  Visiting these hotspots I thought that Iraq, North Korea and Pakistan looked a little bleak than 
 those pictures I have seen in the many travel pamphlets. The landscapes seem that they are one 
 polygon short of a picnic basket. Everything seems squared and gridlocked; even the trees are remarkably 
 cubed. Considering the gaming engine uses the Lithtech Talon which incidentally powered No One 
 Lives Forever and AvP2, it seems that the developers gave literally the bare bones of the engine 
 to Jarhead and nothing more. So here is where my vision started to blur and worried about my sense 
 of attention to detail.
  
  My hearing was the next thing to go. I couldnt recall any musical scores and the sounds 
 of gun fire are questionable. Even my navy seal friend sounded weird; almost haunting like. Whats 
 more remarkable was the voices from the enemies. They all sounded the same. They tend to scream 
 their last breath way after they fall over and the words from the North Koreans were upsetting. 
 They keep on stating You can hide over and over again and the chilling thing 
 about this ordeal was that I was not hiding. The Koreans were actually looking at me chanting these 
 words! This goes for the Pakistani and the Iraqis as well.
  
  Thankfully the length of the game spans just less than ten hours. I really couldnt continue 
 any longer without seeking medical attention. Even though the game has those characteristic easy, 
 medium and hard levels, I have bravely played it on hard and actually scarred me. I never expected 
 the AI to react the way they did. It was beyond the natural cause of naturealmost unnatural. 
 At times I was fired upon without taking any damage and vice versa. The good news is that practically 
 any PC can run this game and that includes any 8bit system. About the price, this game should be 
 given away for free with a no-refund policy.
  
  So after this tribulation, I rested for one day and booted up Quake III to see how I have faired. 
 Honestly I really was paranoid that I expected my foes to fuse through fortifications and instinctly 
 started shooting at walls expecting to kill my enemies. My friends messaged me stating what gives 
 with my aiming? And why the fixation viewing at the walls textures and the bewilderment 
 that you can actually hear multiple sounds. I tried to explain my experiences however its best 
 to keep things classified. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snarekick
Rating: 2
Date: Mar 21, 2007 8:36 am PT
Review:  Navy SEALs: Weapons of Mass Destruction is an example of why it's so risky to buy a budget game 
 and be satisfied. This is definatly one I wished I never owned, because it lacks in everything. 
 Gameplay, graphics, music and fun. It's not worth the money, that's a fact. It's like a child going 
 to McDonald's. They bought the Happy Meal for the toy, but they forgot to put the toy in the bag.
 
  
  I'm usually graceful to Jarhead games, because some of their budget games are actually good. This 
 does not include that line of rare games. Navy Seals 2 is below budget value. It's the kind of 
 game you'd find at an Everything for a Dime Store. Though I kept on playing until the end, hoping 
 for a particle of satisfaction, such a thing never came to pass.
  
  The A. I. is terrible! Enemies just stand in a corner, saying You won't escape! in dutch or sometihng. 
 Then, just one bullet in the head and they're toast. The amount of objectives you must complete 
 per level are many and do make sense, but the inspiration to complete these struggles to come over 
 me. You're men don't do much either. They just stand still, most of the time in the way of your 
 path. To get rid of this bug, simply stab the retard in the head. No more pests bugging you!
  
  Gameplay is pretty simple and playable, but it glitches at least 75 % of the time. I remember 
 I had to start the entire game over again, becuase of a fatal glitch. I fell into a river and died. 
 When I restarted the level, I was drowning on land. This beyond frustrated me. Also, there's not 
 a variety of guns. On missions, you can only hold two and they run out of ammo quickly. Since there 
 is not enough ammo lying around, you're forced to use you're kife which doesn't even affect the 
 enemy.
  
  There is no music to be heard in this game. I guess that's one thing they just couldn'y afford. 
 Music is an art that is put in videogames for a reason. It can change your mood while you play 
 or create a more immersive experience. Even the sound effects are lame. They are of the more, techno 
 variety.
  
  Yes, Navy Seals 2 is a bomb shell that blew up before hitting the ground and killed everyone on 
 the airplane who launched it. It's a shame really. Another good concept gone wrong because of a 
 lack of money. It's not approved by the United States Military or from me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JOE714
Rating: 3.9
Date: Feb 28, 2007 1:30 pm PT
Review:  Id like to say that I heeded the advice posited in GameSpots witty and effective video review 
 for Navy SEALs: WMD and gave this title a wide berth as I sorted through the bargain rack at my 
 local software store, but that just aint the truth. I buy each offering from Jarhead Games for 
 the same reason I clamor for anything by id, Valve, or Monolith  I simply really, really dig first-person 
 shooters  but I definitely dont expect the same experience from the value-priced titles. Sure, 
 theyre derivative, repetitive, glitchy, and quite a bit underwhelming, but theyre also a nice 
 dose of pabulum in between bigger, more engaging titles that keep me awake far past my bedtime 
 for days at a stretch. Once Im finished with a two-week binge on, say, Half-Life 2 -- during which 
 I must sneak catnaps in after my morning shower and before supper to make up for the unhealthy 
 lack of sleep I allow myself after each late-night just one more level fugue  a brief, simple 
 shooting gallery match that satiates my need to draw a bead on virtual fauna is just the ticket. 
 The last time I played through NS: WMD, I knocked out the Iraqi and North Korean excursions in one 
 night, then polished off Pakistan on the following evening with plenty of time to catch Lettermans 
 opening monologue.
  
  Never mind how well NS: WMD and its ilk fits my jet-setting lifestyle; did I derive any thrills 
 or enlightenment from the games actual content? Honestly, no. I had fun plugging enemies with 
 my M40 rifle while shuffling through the Iraqi desert, but Im easy to please whenever sniping 
 is involved. None of the other levels contained especially memorable events; the entire game is 
 just a series of area-clearing exercises that are differentiated ever so slightly by the number 
 of enemies and their arrangement around each particular area. I strongly disliked the games insistence 
 that I stock my limited arsenal before each mission with little or no foreknowledge of the upcoming 
 levels particulars; I got lucky when I selected the sniper rifle for the wide-open desert spaces, 
 and likewise made a fortunate selection of the combat shotgun for the close-quarters cruise beneath 
 the starless skies of Krikkit (North Korea, actually, but the substantially flat, drab, inky blackness 
 that hung just off the deck of the cargo ship brought to mind a similarly dangerous isolationist 
 culture) .
  
  Strategy, stealth, and all but the most basic breach procedures have no place in NS: WMD. Just find 
 a card-carrying Axis of Evil club member, shoot him (or sit back and have a laugh while your spotter/partner 
 drunkenly blasts away at the air surrounding each enemy) , and move on. Any player who doesnt share 
 my all-inclusive fanaticism for first-person shooters will likely despise this title. Although 
 I didnt come away from NS: WMD with the same what have I done with my precious money and/or time? 
 angst that the titles predecessor provoked, the game is useful for little more than some casual 
 piddling on a mod-quality target range. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: franklinzhang
Rating: 1.5
Date: May 5, 2006 6:02 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  The gameplay was one of the most out-of-control experiences that I've ever encountered. You couldn't 
 even control your character without looking past where you wanted to go. Also, the movement was 
 really crappy because you would get shoved by your teammate into a room and not be able to get 
 past him because he made you get stuck. So, the gameplay is worse than terrible.
  Graphics and Textures:
  The graphics were one of the most horrible and simple graphics that I 
 have ever seen in my whole life. The drawing and textures of the landscape and objects were on 
 of the most boring and poorly done drawings. Also, the human texturing made me almost explode, 
 the NPC and AI 's faces were just like crumpled paper wearing a war uniform. The graphics are horrible.
 
  Sound:
  There was no music, I mean why did they even do that? The only sound was the death scream or a 
 gun firing, which was also really terrible. I think that was the only significant sounds besides 
 opening doors and other miscellaneous sounds in the game. The sound is the worst part of the game.
 
  Other Information:
  The game also played like rotten eggs. When an enemy saw you, all he would do was yell and shoot 
 at you, after a few seconds, he would just stand there, looking around. That made the game truly 
 one of the most terrible and crappiest games of the PC system. Another thing is why you can only 
 carry three weapons at once, it could at least let you swap weapons or let you carry more weapons 
 at once. That problem completely blew me away. Overall, horrible horrible horrible, even SW: Obi-Wan 
 is better.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: motahead
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 25, 2006 8:35 pm PT
Review:  Bought this game at a sale for $7.50 so i got value for money and plenty of fun game play. The graphics 
 are not state of the art but do the job for this shoot up game. The weapons depicted look ok and 
 sound alright and leave bullet holes when they hit a solid object.
  The enemy animation is ok and they duck and weave and can be hard to kill at times. My pet dislike 
 with shooting games is bodies disappearing after a few seconds so this is a negative. Also no blood 
 effects which always add to a games realism. I suppose budget constraints on the developer made 
 it difficult to include special effects.
  Anyhow if you want an uncomplicated budget shoot em up game this may be for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LtTora
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 26, 2005 5:18 pm PT
Review:  Okay lets get one thing straight: SOCOM this is not, but once you get the hang of it it's actually 
 fun. The Graphics are third rate; the dialogue of the bad guys is very limited, as is their intelligence. 
 The storyline is shallow and your teammate is more of a hindrance than help. 
  
  However the game is still more complex then the original doom, and has a more interesting storyline. 
 You have a limited arsenal but that's better than nothing. 
  
  All in all if you are short on funds and looking for a few cheap thrills then get this game, it 
 installs quickly, takes up very little space and unlike SOCOM one or two allows you to save anytime 
 in the game. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: some_guy2345
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 16, 2005 11:29 am PT
Review:  Just a horrible, horrible game and sequel to the original budget game, Navy Seals. The developers 
 threw in some stuff like more weapons, being able to pick up ammunition in levels and buddy AI. 
 The new weapons, however, are horrible. The new shotgun is plain weak and the sniper rifle is useless 
 as most of the levels are small and indoor. The buddy AI is abysmal. You control him with 2 basic 
 commands: hold fire/fire at will and follow me/hold this position. More often then not he will 
 go galavanting off and stand in front of enemies shooting. Sometimes he will go prone and provide 
 cover fire with the appropriate commands, but usually he's too retarded to do so. The graphics 
 are ugly and the sound is horrible and canned. All copies of this game should be burned in hell. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mp5slipknot
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 8, 2005 8:08 am PT
Review:  I downloaded the Trial version from here and that was enough to show me how bad this game is. This 
 is officaly, THE worst game I have ever played in all my long years of gaming. I mean, words cannot 
 begin to describe my disgust for this trash. If I could I would give this game a -2, cause thats 
 what it deserves. I like first person shooters, and I dont expect a lot from budget title shooters. 
 But still, it seems like they bearly even tried. Anyway, I'll go through each segment.
  
  GAMEPLAY: One word, vomit. This gameplay is so bland an uninspiried. Its the most basic first person 
 shooter since Escape from Castle Wolfenstien (No offence to that game of course. I AM NOT WORTHY 
 OF THEE!!!) . I mean, even budget titles should have SOMETHING at least slightly unique about it, 
 like maybe interesting A. I. perhaps, or challenging maps. Sadly though, this is all just going 
 around and shooting people, and nothing more at all. 
  
  GRAPHICS: Anouther thing I dont expect from budget titles is astouding graphics. But this is way 
 below subpar. I have seen free games by independent programmers with better visuals then this. 
 The enemies look horrible, the maps are uninspiried, the only fairly decent visual in the game 
 is your partners face.... until you soon realise that the U. N. inspectors have the exact same face. 
 And anouther thing, the game feels like your stuck in a zoom, giving it a dissorianting, claustraphobic 
 feel.
  
  SOUNDS: Sounds? What sounds? Theres no music, and the audio is terrible. The gun sounds are weak, 
 but the worst part about the audio is the terrorists dying sounds. They scream out something supposivly 
 in the Iraqi Arabic dialect which make them seem so strerotypical.
  
  VALUE: This game had so much little effort put into it. The engine is so buggy you could cover 
 it in honey and call it a beehive. In addition, the A. I. is HORRIBLE. They would often make rolls 
 for no reason, try to run through walls, and for some reason they are horrible aimers. Now I know 
 the AK-47 isn't the most accurate weapon, fine, but you would think they could hit me when I'm 
 standing only 10 feet in front of them! 
  
  
  OVERALL: This game is simply god aweful. I seriously wish I could give this game a -2, cause 1 
 is way to high. Do yourself a favor and dont even download this game. But if your so courious and 
 feel like being brave, then go ahead and make my mistake. But I warn you, the only thing you'll 
 want to shoot in this first person shooter, is yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: steve_ed
Rating: 2
Date: May 7, 2007 2:05 am PT
Review:  I have to admit, I have a good laugh playing broken games just to see how bad they are. I tried 
 the demo out, I have to say that this game is so bad that it is hillarious. Seriously, Doom was 
 much more fun than WMD.
  
  The Gameplay in this budget title is pretty stripped down. When you fire up a new game, you find 
 yourself parachuting onto the outside of an Iraqi citadel with a buddy to back you up. Giving me 
 my first impression of what the game had in store for me was seeing two blind guards just stand 
 around smoking some pot while I landed 20 yards away from them in plain view. I whipped out my 
 silenced MP5 and took them out like they were half-asleep. Their buddy was stoned as well, in the 
 back of their Jeep and decided to just stay there staring into empty space even while I waved my 
 gun in his face to wake him up. Three more guards became suspicious and burst through the town 
 entrance doors, but they forgot to take cover and all died to my head shots.
  
  Inside the town the A. I. guards don't get any smarter. The A. I. can not get a proper lock on you 
 and most of their shots will just fly past you, even at point blank range. Watch as guards hillariously 
 take over out in the middle of an open field then let you kill them. Then you'll laugh as you find 
 guards guarding walls (facing away from the entrance door) taking a pot break and you kill them 
 with a no brainer head shot. Seriously, I've seen insects with better A. I. than these guys. Even 
 the A. I. in Doom was better than this. Not only is the A. I. bad, but it is so bad that I was able 
 to massacre a room full of guards using ONLY my trusty knife.
  
  The graphics are no better than the gameplay. Blocky guns, oven mitt hands, washed out textures, 
 empty rooms, and flat terrain all sums it up. Half-Life's graphics were better than what you will 
 find WMD. Everything here feels like it was thrown together to get the game out the door as fast 
 as possible. Only the graphics in God and Generals and Big Rigs: Over the Road Racing are worse 
 than this, which is hardly a compliment.
  
  To make matters worse, the game seems to have a very bad V-SYNC. As I made a turn in the game, 
 the scenery got chopped up and butchered. There is little more that needs to be said about the 
 GFX.
  
  The sound department just as bad. The game has NO music, and they probably did not include any. 
 The weapons sound effects will probably not impress you either, although I had a laugh at hearing 
 the silenced MP5 which sounds like a pellet gun. The enemies seem to speak their native language, 
 but I would not be surprised if it was gibrish given the low standards already found in the game. 
 In the end, there are better games to find on the shelf than this. If you're interested in a budget 
 game done right, check out the Serious Sam series, anything else will probably give better value 
 than this. The only redeeming feature of this game is how funny it was to play this demo and witness 
 the Brain Dead A. I. that can't hit me at point blank range. DON'T BUY THIS GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: michael_mccol
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 2, 2003 2:04 pm PT
Review:  First off let me say this game is amazing. Sure the graphics are not top notch and cant stand 
 with any of the up and coming games such as hl2 or doom3; however, this game can teach you so much.
 
  The AI is impressive, as the enemies will use the actually tactics of the real Iraqi soldiers. 
 That is they will sneak up on you out of no where and then try and surrender by not firing. I can't 
 think of another game that has done that much research to accurately portray someone. Also once, 
 you have installed the cd, it serves as a great coaster. I haven't had any watermarks on my desk 
 since I bought this game. And if you find yourself board, you can simply stick the cd in a microwave 
 [not recommended without professional guidance] and watch the shader and particle effects take 
 place in your microwave.
  Another strength of navy seals is that once you play this you will immediately want to get away 
 from your computer. I lost 5 pounds just from going outside and playing golf. Navy Seals is truly 
 a remarkable product, when you pay for it you get so much more than you would from a normal game.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 07mccarthyp
Rating: 1.1
Date: Aug 20, 2003 11:54 am PT
Review:  This has got to be the second worst game in the world. The only thing that is worse is that kabukai 
 warriors for the xbox. That is it, I have more fun watching the view. The graphics and gameplay 
 are so bad that any atari game could beat it. The sound oh my god is it terrible, it is so bad 
 i can't even talk about it. You should know there is something wrong with a game when guys will 
 just pop out of nowhere and just stand there looking dumfounded, of course you can't really say 
 that because the graphics are so bad they don't have emotion.
  there is my review on one of the worst games of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TehTerlo
Rating: 1.4
Date: Aug 17, 2003 12:42 pm PT
Review:  The only thing that got me was the title! This game is Bullcrap gone bad and then sprayed on my 
 grandma's farm ten times. Weapons of mass destruction made the game sound like oooh I want that. 
 Then I play it and I have more fun touching shiny things (yes it is fun) and playing games like 
 Pong you know two lines and a dot for the great old atari playing it on my old black and white 
 6 inch...
  
  Ahhh those were the days.
  
  But this is the crappiest FPS out there. 
  
  I would not even spend a buck on this piece of Cow manure spray stuff.
  
  I think I will 
 continue drooling over halo: combat evolved and Zelda: WW two great games.
  
  *drool!
  
  
  that is my say! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: f4g0t
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 13, 2003 2:43 pm PT
Review:  Good god, what the hell is this? I guess now the people whos names showed up in the games are going 
 to have to hang themselves to save themselves from total humiliation, or they could go under the 
 protection of the US government and get their name changed. Gamespot needs to start adding zeroes 
 to the scorecard, becuase i would not dare look at this game even if you paid me. i threw up all 
 over myself when i witnessed what kind of sick people we have in our world, allowing a game like 
 this to be developed and published. may god have mercy on them all. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
