-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: NBA Live 98
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sports/nbalive98/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 17, 1997
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.1
Critic Score: 8.6, 1 Review (s)
User Score: 8.0, 84 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Sports
Genre: Basketball Sim
Date:     Oct 31, 1997

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
There are some fundamental problems in NBA Live 98, but it is a lot of fun to play and captures 
 the sensationalized aspects of the NBA very well. 

 Many would argue that the NBA today is more about highlight clips than good basketball fundamentals, 
 and that a solid defense doesn't get you those multimillion-dollar contracts. But it's undeniable 
 that the great teams are great at both ends of the floor. Look at the Chicago Bulls of the '90s. 
 Their dominance could never have happened were it not for their ability to shut down the opposing 
 team's offensive threats.  

 Past versions of NBA Live have held true to the "highlight clip" mentality. Passing the ball was 
 usually an afterthought, since you could just as effectively force your way to the hoop for a slam 
 dunk. At the other end, it was unrealistically hard to block a shot, and even steals were not under 
 your control - your player would automatically swat at the ball when he was close enough to the 
 ball handler.  

 This year, EA Sports contrived to fix these problems by offering more gameplay control and player 
 moves, both offensively and defensively. But there are still some lingering problems, some of which 
 date all the way back to NBA Live's inaugural release. The worst of these is that the offense still 
 reigns supreme because the defense is not effective enough to stop the shooter.  

 Let's consider what happens when a great center like Olajuwan gets the ball down low. Your defensive 
 setup is to double-team him with high pressure. With the ball and his back to the basket, Patrick 
 Ewing and Charles Oakley collapse on Olajuwan, keeping him from getting any closer to the basket. 
 For added pressure, you take control of Larry Johnson and run him in for a triple team. The Rockets 
 certainly are not short of offensive options, so in this situation Olajuwan would probably kick 
 the ball out to one of the two open players. Instead, Hakeem turns, shoots, and sinks the 15-foot 
 jumper with three hands in his face, not one of which even touches the ball. The next time down 
 the court, same thing. Olajuwan is one of the best players in the league, but come on!  

 NBA Live 98 does have many options to tweak the game to your liking. But I like my sports games 
 to be as realistic as possible on the score board, on the court, and statistically - yet, there 
 is nothing you can do to make NBA Live 98 ultra-realistic. Here's why:  

 There are four skill levels in NBA Live 98. At the rookie level, your players make shots way too 
 easily, and scores can get up past 150 points in a regulation 48-minute game. The reason: poor 
 defense. At the next skill level, starter, the computer team plays a little bit better defensively, 
 and your guys don't sink shots as easily. Still, scores hit the 130 to 140 mark, but in a closer 
 game. The reason: poor defense. Let's bump it up again to the all-star level and forget about the 
 results of the game. The NBA Live 98 manual explains that at this setting "It's difficult to make 
 steals or block shots, and the computer offense and defense are cranked up." Great, just what you 
 need - a diminished defensive ability for you and a better offense for the computer. The computer 
 does play a little better defense, but what isn't mentioned is that your offense will also struggle. 
 Fine, you'd expect to miss jump shots even half the time, but when your 7-foot center misses an 
 easy put-back beneath the basket, that's ridiculous. The superstar level, the highest difficulty 
 setting, takes the problems of the all-star level even further. Starting to get the picture here? 
 There is no way to set the game for a good offensive/defensive balance.   

 There's also the lingering problem of inconsistent foul calling. In the past, a player would go 
 flying across the floor when he was fouled. It's still that way, except the refs don't blow their 
 whistles much of the time. Bump up the foul frequency levels a tad, and it seems that it only makes 
 the refs watch your team more closely. Part of the weak defensive effort is due to the relaxed 
 way many of your computer-controlled players match up. Even with overall defensive pressure set 
 to high, your guys will stand and watch their man shoot without even so much as putting a hand 
 in his face.  

 Other lingering minor problems are things like court awareness, since there are still an inordinate 
 number of in-the-key calls, and guys will still shoot from behind the backboard or let themselves 
 get bumped out-of-bounds. The man you're controlling also ends up off the edge of the screen a 
 lot, making it difficult to use the option where you control one individual position for the whole 
 game.  

 But don't write off NBA Live 98 just yet (besides, you only have one other choice for five-on-five 
 NBA basketball, and it's not any better) . There are some new additions in NBA Live 98 that improve 
 things. The best of the new defensive moves is the face up. While you hold this button down, your 
 player will maintain a defensive stance with his back to the basket no matter which way you move. 
 This makes a lot of difference when trying to keep your man from driving to the hoop. On offense, 
 the two most useful new moves are a fadeaway shot and direct pass, meaning you can pass to any 
 player on the floor by hitting the button that corresponds to him. There are also many other new 
 moves that make playing more versatile.  

 There's a neat three-point shootout, like at the All-Star Game, and the 3D graphics are stellar. 
 You can also call up to eight plays - for both offense and defense - from the court, but you still 
 have to exit the game to make personnel changes (but at least you don't have to wait for the court 
 graphics to reload anymore like past years) .  

 Call me a purist, but the lack of a good defensive effort in many of today's NBA teams is a problem, 
 and maybe NBA Live is just mimicking that style. There are still some fundamental problems in NBA 
 Live 98, but it is a lot of fun to play and captures the sensationalized aspects of the NBA very 
 well. With the added controls and improved playability, and the lack of any real competition, NBA 
 Live 98 is undoubtedly the best basketball game for the PC.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: fandom888
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 26, 2008 11:14 pm PT
Review:  Some would say that EA Sports comes up short with their new version of the NBA Live series. The 
 game, even not introducing many new features, has the same hardcore gameplay and offers the same 
 unique experience like all the previous did.
  
  The developers of the series were ignoring for years saome passing and shooting problems, which 
 are now fixed. The gameplay is easier to control and even more realistic to play. However, you 
 will see that average players struggle to score, while the NBA superstars will suceed to almost 
 every shoot or dunk they make.
  
  Another problem is the lack of balance between the difficulty levels of the game: shortly after 
 you start playing, you will realize that the CPU provides a very good offensive play, but is crawling 
 in the defence. The opposite will happen to your team: in higher difficulty levels, your defence 
 will be able to stop much attacks and shots, but don not expect to have an accuracy over thirty 
 percent in your shots.
  
  The game seems to have an impoved 3D realism, with better angles and nearly perfect details over 
 the park. There is a crowd which will produce sound when you score, and the ten players in the 
 court will call for a pass, will celebrate a succesful strike from the downtown, and will animate 
 and be voiced much better than they did in the previous Live.
  
  These make NBA Live 98 an entertaining and pleasureable basketball sim which you should try if 
 you have the opportunity. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sudantha8527
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 20, 2006 9:58 am PT
Review:  I played NBA Live 98 in 1998, this is what game me the basketball game... it may be an old game, 
 right now I'm playing NBA live 06 and things havent chaged much in gameplay since then.
  
  I used to love the halftime shows and I stuyed the NBA at that time and live basketball
  
  
 The GOOD: good gameplay, which includes season playing and stuff which hassent changed in the NBA 
 live series to this date, super videos with halftime shows and stuff,, good graphics and sounds, 
 easy keyboard movements and player movements are real
  
  The BAD: There really isnt much bad to say, when it comes to creating a player though you can easily 
 put all his abilities up to 99% and make the player almost superhuman..
  
  one classic game that I have played and loved, highly addictive and replay value as I played it 
 for more than an year. You can play a real time season... 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
