-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: NBA Live 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sports/nbalive2003/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 27, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.7
Critic Score: 7.7, 9 Review (s)
User Score: 8.4, 361 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Electronic Arts
Developer: EA Canada
Genre: Basketball Sim
Date:     Nov 14, 2002
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
There aren't too many other basketball games on the PC to choose from, but any fan of the sport 
 should give NBA Live 2003 a try. 

 It was probably for the best that NBA Live 2002 was never released on the PC, because the gameplay 
 mechanics in last year's game were in serious need of fine-tuning. Fortunately, EA Sports has almost 
 completely reworked the NBA Live series for 2003 by quickening the pace of the game, adding a new 
 "freestyle" control system, and generally making NBA Live 2003 play more like the classic 16-bit 
 console games that helped start the series. The result is an incredibly fun, albeit unrealistic, 
 game of basketball that anyone can pick up and immediately start to enjoy. In addition, the PC 
 version unquestionably has the best online features of any of the game's versions, since it lets 
 you create clubs and track various stats online.           The latest game in the Live series is 
 quite different from the last few games.    

 Live 2003 still offers many of the same modes found in previous games in the series. The franchise 
 mode returns in 2003, and while it's not quite as in-depth as the one featured in Sega's console 
 game NBA 2K3, you still get to perform all the basic functions of an NBA general manager. At the 
 beginning of a season, you can adjust your roster by trading and releasing players and signing 
 free agents. The trading system is similar the one found in previous games in that players are 
 given point values. In putting together a trade proposal, the point value of the players you want 
 to trade for has to be within a certain range, otherwise the computer will reject it. You'll also 
 get to pore over different sets of statistics, including overall team stats, individual player 
 stats, your personal user stats, and the league leaders in different statistical categories. Also 
 included in the franchise mode is a GM's desk option that lets you go behind the scenes to the 
 business side of the NBA. You'll see information on player contracts, injury reports, MVP candidates, 
 player progression, and a list of upcoming free agents.   

  At the end of a season, the game will hand out awards such as League MVP, Sixth Man, Rookie of 
 the Year, and Defensive Player of the Year. The game will also name its All-NBA team, All-Defensive 
 team, and All-Rookie team. While the off-season may be celebration time for some teams, for others, 
 it marks one of the few opportunities to make significant changes. First, you'll see a list of 
 retiring players, so you'll know what holes, if any, you will need to fill via the draft, free 
 agency, or trades. You'll also have to take care of re-signing players if any of them are coming 
 to the end of their contracts and you want to keep them on the team for a few more years. Unfortunately, 
 when you make it to the rookie draft, there really doesn't seem to be enough information to make 
 an educated choice. After completing the draft, you can sign any remaining free agents, make last-minute 
 trades, and then begin a new season. Again, it's not quite as in-depth as the franchise mode in 
 Sega's console game NBA 2K3, but it also won't be as intimidating for some, and it seems to fit 
 well with the new gameplay style.           There are a variety of modes to choose from, including 
 a franchise mode.    

 The other modes in NBA Live 2003 aren't nearly as involved as the franchise mode. the game features 
 straightforward exhibition, season, and playoff modes, as well as a practice mode that lets you 
 move around the court with a single player. Live 2003 also features a one-on-one mode in which 
 you can select any two players in the league and pit them against each other to see who's better. 
   

  Whichever mode you select, you'll undoubtedly notice how much faster NBA Live 2003 plays than the 
 games that came before it -- or, for that matter, any other five-on-five basketball games currently 
 available. Though there are differences between them, every player on the court is relatively quick 
 even when you're not using the turbo button, making it much easier to execute fast breaks or create 
 a path to the basket.    

 The shooting percentages seem a little out of whack out of times, but not necessarily in the bad 
 sense. With the default settings of the game, it's not unusual to have two or three players on 
 your team hit at least four three-pointers over the span of a single game, and you'll rarely ever 
 miss shots that are within five or so feet of the basket. When you increase the difficulty, the 
 computer will score on almost every trip down the court if you don't keep a defender on each of 
 its players.          The freestyle control scheme works incredibly well if you have a dual analog 
 gamepad.    

  The passing is surprisingly precise for such a quick game, and like in the older games in the series, 
 it quickly becomes an integral element of play -- not only for the purposes of having fun and showing 
 off, but also because it's one of the many methods you can use to break down the defense. Yet, 
 the one thing that truly makes NBA Live 2003 play differently from most other basketball games 
 is the freestyle control. The game is surprisingly playable using a keyboard, but it's best with 
 a good gamepad. Instead of just going for the basic one-button juke move -- or any sort of button-activated 
 juke moves, for that matter -- you control the ball with the analog stick of your gamepad, or by 
 holding down a button and moving the D pad, if you don't have an analog controller. If you want 
 to dribble in between your legs behind the three-point line, you simply lightly tap the right analog 
 stick from left to right. Likewise, if you want to perform a sharp crossover when driving up the 
 court, press lightly in one direction on the analog stick then quickly press it back in the opposite 
 direction. This system makes it feel as though you have more control over the player, since the 
 guesswork of context-sensitive juke moves has essentially been removed. Plus, you can create some 
 really spectacular-looking plays that will actually be worth looking at in replays over and over. 
 However, you can be penalized for using these moves, especially when executing them in a crowd 
 of defenders, which often results in a steal. In addition, the freestyle ability really makes the 
 better point guards in the league overpowered, and you'll probably find yourself relying on them 
 more than any other player. Though, since it's obvious this game wasn't meant to play like a true 
 simulation, it's really not that big of a problem. It's worth mentioning that the freestyle control 
 system works best with an analog controller, and it can be slightly more difficult to execute these 
 moves if you only have access to a standard D pad controller or keyboard.   

  The post-up game still comes in handy when going up against irritating zone defenses, but generally, 
 it really seems to be useful only as a "last resort" strategy, which is unfortunate. The post-up 
 game in Live 2003 is quite fun to use, as it lets you back down a defender until he starts to hold 
 his ground and then either put up a jump shot or roll off and drive to the basket. It functions 
 similarly to the system in NBA 2K3, only everything happens much faster.   

  You might think it would be difficult to play defense in a game in which all the players are so 
 quick, but it really isn't. As long as you stay up on an opposing player, or generally stay in 
 his way, cutting off lanes to the basket, you'll be fine. Likewise, defending a man down on the 
 block is equally straightforward as long as you play right up on his back. Shots can frequently 
 be blocked, but doing so usually sends the ball flying out of bounds. Steals are also relatively 
 frequent, since playing the passing lanes usually results in a turnover. So, the defense has been 
 adequately equipped to handle the high-speed offense in the game.   

  The PC version of NBA Live 2003 has much more robust online features than the PlayStation 2 version 
 of the game. Not only can you just go online to play against other people and tracks several kinds 
 of statistics for your online persona (such as field goal percentage, three point percentage, points 
 per game) , but you can also form clubs made up of other players. Clubs are then ranked based on 
 performance of individual players, and acting as a general manager for one of these clubs is quite 
 similar to working as a general manager in the single-player game -- you'll try to recruit the players 
 with the best statistics.   

  NBA Live 2003 looks great, but that doesn't necessarily mean it looks realistic. You can see all 
 the trademark details for individual players, like headbands, tattoos, or certain facial features, 
 but the players have a somewhat cartoonlike look to them. All of the arenas in the game look nearly 
 identical to their real-life counterparts, but the crowds, which look like a series of cardboard 
 cutouts, could use a little more work.           The PC version of NBA Live 2003 has one of the 
 most in-depth online play modes in any basketball game to date.    

 NBA Live 2003's audio is probably its weakest point, at least in terms of the commentary. The two-man 
 commentary team gives makes nice comments on the game and repetition is kept to a minimum, but 
 the commentary doesn't really flow throughout the game. There is some good crowd noise, particularly 
 when you're shooting a three -- you'll actually hear the crowd yell "threeee," much as they do for 
 the home team in real life. It's too bad that there aren't more sound effects like that in the 
 game. Like in other EA Sports games, the soundtrack consists of licensed music from various artists 
 such as Busta Rhymes and Snoop Dogg, which may or may not interest you.   

  The gameplay in NBA Live 2003 is fast-paced and fun, but it still retains enough simulation elements 
 to prevent it from being a completely arcade-style basketball game. In addition, the online component 
 for the PC version is excellent and lets you create clubs and track several different statistics, 
 so it should provide ample motivation for playing the game long after you've purchased it. However, 
 if you plan to play the game online for any amount of time, you should be aware that you'll need 
 to subscribe to EA Sports Online, an online service that offers a free 60-day trial period but 
 charges monthly fees thereafter. EA Sports has also done a great job of integrating the freestyle 
 control scheme so that you really feel as though you have more control over the ball. It's true 
 that there aren't too many other basketball games on the PC to choose from, but any fan of the 
 sport should give NBA Live 2003 a try, keeping in mind that the game is best enjoyed with a dual 
 analog gamepad.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (5 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: kc0lcs04
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 21, 2007 8:48 am PT
Review:  I bought NBA Live '03 after '04 didn't work right on my laptop (too slow loading times) . Having 
 played NBA Live '03 and '04, I don't think there's really much difference, at least in gameplay. 
 I REALLY like the smooth moves from the players, especially in dunks and such. You can tell it 
 was definitely better done than NBA Live 2001 was.
  I like the play-by-play, the newer guy is definitely better than Reggie Theis or whoever did NBA 
 Live 2k1.
  The graphics are awesome, pretty realistic-looking. Definitely good enough for me, personally.
 
  My only problem with gameplay is rebounds; I just can't seem to get any offensive rebounds after 
 missed shots! Don't know what the problem is there.
  A great game overall! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: insaneassclown
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 16, 2006 5:03 pm PT
Review:  I can't. I still can't think of a sports video game that ISN'T frustrating to play. I can't even 
 think of ANY game that isn't atleast one bit frustrating at some point to play. Because you can't 
 score or you always die at this part or can't find the damn thing that you're supposed to find 
 to get through the level. 
  
  This game is the same. You'll get frustrated that your shot's been block or your shot didn't go 
 in at the last 5 seconds of the 4th quarter or somebody steals your ball. 
  
  The 2 on 2 game mode was somehow very good for the first 20 to 30 games, and also there's 3 basketball 
 courts to chose from (beachside, regular court, or urban) . There's also a pratice mode in which 
 you play some basketball all by yourself. While that may sound boring; however it was quite fun 
 because I view it as an opportunity to mess around the court and dribble like crazy and dunk everytime 
 without a worry in the world that somebody might jack my ball up. 
  
  Graphics are colorful and the commentary are funny at first and then gets old. 
  
  If you're 
 a NBA fan then you need to get this PC version of the game because there wasn't been a descent 
 NBA Live game for awhile now. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pt99866
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 15, 2006 2:18 pm PT
Review:  NBA Live 2003 is a pretty good Basetball Simulation for the PC. It's #1, but that doesn't say much, 
 because there wasn't any other NBA game for the PC, and even if there was, it wouldn't have been 
 very good. 
  The franchise mode is OK, but doesn't let you do much besides play games and maybe improve a player. 
 The graphics aren't bad, though. All the atheletes look pretty much like their supposed to, with 
 the exceptions of few, like Vince Carter. The crowds have improved, but are still a bit weird looking. 
 All the plays look smooth and well executed, but some times there is some "vacumming". The sound 
 track is pretty good, but after a while you get tired of hearing literally the same song every 
 20 minutes.
  The roster editing mode os pretty good, but the Create and Edit- a- Player modes are horrendous. 
 There are fewer options than I excepted but the choosing the kicks part is pretty cool.
  NBA Live 2003 is a basketball game that will keep the hardcore basketball fan satisfied, but a 
 general gamer will ask, "What happened EA?". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LuDaDJ
Rating: 7.4
Date: Feb 5, 2006 10:17 pm PT
Review:  Since the 1995 iteration, EA's NBA Live series has been the only consistent PC basketball franchise. 
 Although they skipped 2002, EA has revamped NBA Live 2003 for the PC, and it turns out to be a 
 fun, fast paced, arcade style basketball game, even with its numerous gameplay annoyances.
  
  The game engine has changed in NBA Live 2003, and that's a good thing. No longer are all made 
 shots swishes, now shots can bounce around on the rim before they go in. The graphics have received 
 a major overhaul as well, and it's a different style than the last two NBA Live PC games.
  
  In addition to the usual exhibition and season modes, the one on one mode returns, as well 
 as a practice mode.
  
  Once you start playing a game, you'll notice that a few gameplay aspects are exaggerated, most 
 noticeably the speed of the players and blocked shots, which always seem to go into the stands. 
 On offense, in addition to taking jump shots, you can post up your big men, and execute turn around 
 jumpers, hook shots, and drop steps in the paint. On defense, it's pretty difficult to keep your 
 controlled player on his defensive assignment, and often the computer will be able to score with 
 this guy. With the D-pad, you can call set plays on both offense and defense. For example, with 
 your point guard, you can call for a pick and roll, and your big man will come up and set the pick, 
 which you can use to drive to the basket for a layup, or pass back to the big man for a shot. These 
 plays are extremely useful, and you'll be using them frequently on the higher difficulty levels, 
 when it's just too hard to simply go through the defense with one player. One really useful play 
 is the isolation. Either you get a guy like Tim Duncan to execute a drop step to get a clear path 
 to the basket, or have a quick point guard like Allen Iverson shake his defender with crossovers, 
 and take the clear path to the basket.
  
  New to the series is the addition of the freestyle control. By moving the right analog stick, you 
 can execute crossover moves, jab steps, spins, and hesitations. In the post, you can execute pivot 
 moves, and on defense, you'll be able to steal, contest shots, or assume a crouching stance. It's 
 a great innovation to the game, but it's still extremely hard to drive past a CPU defender, and 
 just like in NBA 2K3, you'll feel that there's an invisible wall even when there appears to be 
 a clear path to the basket.
  
  As you play more of NBA Live 2003, the more irritating gameplay nuances will stick out. For example, 
 on the harder difficulty levels against a good team, the CPU will never fail to execute a successful 
 fast break after every missed shot you take, often with outrageous dunks and alley oops. This makes 
 catching up extremely difficult, as the CPU will put together a 7-0 run or so literally in a matter 
 of seconds when you start to panic. Star players are too overpowered, are able to take over the 
 game, and are totally unstoppable, no matter what you try to do. Another example is on offense, 
 your players will take their time in moving upcourt, even in a close game. Also, at the end of 
 a close game, and you have the lead, the CPU will not foul you in order to stop the clock.
  
  Another frustrating part of the gameplay, which is apparently in every other basketball game, 
 is the disproportionate number of missed layups and dunks. They happen more frequent than necessary. 
 Also annoying is that sometimes your player will inadvertently step out of bounds for the most 
 odd reasons, either while you're trying to dribble around a trap, or you decide to back down the 
 defender. The CPU seems to be in love with the three point shot, and will take it too often. You 
 can anticipate the shot coming, and move a guy out to block the shot.
  
  And finally, there are two severe bugs with regards to inbounding situations. Sometimes in inbound 
 situations, the camera will be in a position so that you don't see any of your on court players. 
 The other bug is that the CPU will start inbounding before you even realize it, and without the 
 whistle to indicate it has done so.
  
  Although there are many gameplay annoyances with NBA Live 2003, it's still a fast paced and entertaining 
 basketball game. If you can put up with the problems, you'll still be able to have an enjoyable 
 experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cbx69
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 24, 2004 2:16 am PT
Review:  People please play the NBA leagues before you say anything. All basketball games (just like all 
 real-time strategies except Homeworld) are boring to play against computer, which is just there 
 to prepare you for playing against other people. NBA Live 2003 has improved a LOT for online play, 
 especially lag-wise, yes you can make freethrows now, silly running around for steal strategy does 
 not work any more, running around under basket tapping shoot button for a lay-up does not work 
 any more, and many other biggest blunders of the last game have been taken care of. The passing 
 feature you're whining about looks a little weird sometimes but it gets the job done, meaning that 
 whoever is supposed to end up with the ball ends up with it, and fast-breaks are not that hard 
 to make either. Play the leagues, people, not AI or EASO... 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
