-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: NBA Live 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sports/nbalive2001/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb 15, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 7.5, 22 Review (s)
User Score: 7.7, 160 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Sports
Genre: Basketball Sim
Date:     Feb 7, 2001
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The new edition of NBA Live doesn't really offer much in the way of new features -- but it's still 
 one of the best basketball games available. 

 EA Sports' NBA Live series arguably hasn't changed much since its 1995 debut on the Super Nintendo 
 and Sega Genesis consoles, but back then, the series was revolutionary. It ushered in the isometric 
 perspective for basketball games, which was previously unheard of since most developers liked to 
 stick with the TV-like sideline camera angle. The gameplay was equally different -- for example, 
 the first NBA Live game dramatically increased the speed of the sport with options such as speed 
 bursts and quick post-up moves -- but it still managed to seem like an accurate simulation of the 
 real-life sport. The NBA Live series quickly began to grow in popularity and eventually reigned 
 as the premier basketball game across all platforms. But, as the years passed, players started 
 to realize that the successive iterations of the Live series featured fewer and fewer improvements 
 and modifications to the gameplay. The new 2001 edition of the series also continues in the tradition 
 of most of its predecessors in that it doesn't really offer much in the way of new features -- but 
 likewise, it's still one of the best basketball games available.           The action is as fast 
 as in previous installments    

 The gameplay modes in NBA Live 2001 are nearly identical to those of its predecessor, NBA Live 2000. 
 There's an exhibition mode in which you select any two teams and jump right into a game. The season 
 mode lets you play through the entire 2000-2001 NBA season, where you can start out with a draft 
 or use the default rosters for each team. Once you actually begin the season, you can reorder your 
 roster, change players' positions, and sign or release players without worrying about whether or 
 not one player is actually more valuable than the other. There's also a basic playoff mode in which 
 you can skip the 2000-2001 season entirely and head straight for the playoffs.   

  The popular one-on-one mode reappears in NBA Live 2001 with updated rosters, and, for the most 
 part, it's identical to that of NBA Live 2000. This mode lets you challenge the greatest players 
 of all time in a one-on-one game that takes place on an outdoor playground. So, for example, if 
 you've ever wondered if Vince Carter is truly the next Michael Jordan, you can find out by pitting 
 the two against each other. Or, if you want to see who really is better -- Michael Jordan or Wilt 
 Chamberlain -- you can set up that game as well. The single-player one-on-one mode is executed really 
 well. Even on the highest difficulty setting, in which the computer-controlled player will hang 
 right on your jersey, it's still possible to find a small opening and take the ball right to the 
 basket with a ferocious dunk. In multiplayer, one-on-one sessions are also fun because it's just 
 you and the other player putting on your best show of advanced basketball skills.           The 
 graphics are more detailed than before    

 The franchise mode also makes a return in NBA Live 2001. It's ideal for those who like to take on 
 the role of general manager in a much more detailed manner than what the regular season mode offers. 
 Once you start a season, you have access to options similar to those found in the basic season 
 mode -- you can reorder the roster and edit players, as well as make trades, sign free agents, and 
 drop players. However, unlike in the season mode, each of your actions is influenced by a point 
 total that essentially serves as NBA Live's version of money. For example, if you want to sign 
 Tim Duncan, who's approximately worth 300,000 points, and you have only 120,000 points available 
 for your team, then you can't sign him. But, like a true general manager, you can find ways to 
 get what you want by releasing players, trading current players or draft selections, and signing 
 new players at the right time. Trades operate in a similar manner -- you can't just trade a good 
 player for an all-star, so trying to trade Patrick Ewing for Shaquille O'Neal isn't going to work 
 unless you throw in a few more high-quality players like Gary Payton. The only problem with the 
 franchise mode is that the trade menus aren't as intuitive as they should be, so making a simple 
 trade can end up taking more time than necessary. The additional ability to make three-team trades 
 can compound the problem, though it's a welcome feature otherwise.    

 NBA Live 2001's gameplay does have a few new changes and additions since the last installment. To 
 make up for a rather weak low-post game in NBA Live 2000, EA Sports added a few new moves for players 
 in the blocks, which really helps to change up the pace of the game since posting up is now a little 
 more advantageous. In NBA Live 2000, you'd probably just run down the court and simply throw the 
 ball down to the power forward or the center and try to make a move directly to the basket. But 
 in NBA Live 2001, you can actually take your time and wait for your big men to get set up on the 
 low post, toss the ball to them, watch them go to work, and finish it off with a baby hook or a 
 fade-away jump shot, which is much easier to execute than in previous versions of the game. Unfortunately, 
 in multiplayer mode, the pacing of the game is actually much quicker, and you won't have as many 
 opportunities to set up a low-post offense in any effective manner, which basically defeats the 
 purpose of adding the new moves.           Sacramento vs. LA    

 Shooting and passing in NBA Live 2001 largely remain the same as in the previous game, so there 
 are still a few problems in terms of taking specific types of shots and passing the ball to the 
 correct player. In NBA Live 2000, one of the biggest disputes among fans of the game was whether 
 it was realistic or annoying when a player who was standing directly under the basket wouldn't 
 always dunk the ball or go for a simple layup. This behavior continues in NBA Live 2001, and it 
 can still be annoying because you'll expect the player to dunk the ball, so the timing of your 
 jump shot will almost always be thrown off. As a result, your players often miss a shot when they're 
 standing merely two feet away from the front of the basket. It happens so often that you'll become 
 accustomed to seeing it happen, but even so, there's nothing more frustrating than to have an open 
 player under the rim, only to see him miss a wide-open jump shot that could have easily been a 
 dunk layup. In addition, the act of shooting itself is a little sluggish, as players occasionally 
 don't pull off a simple jump shot while making a run to the basket or even while standing.   

 
  Passing remains basically the same in NBA Live 2001, but, as with shooting, problems involving 
 responsiveness and precision creep up every now and then. Sometimes, particularly when you're down 
 on the low post, it can take a moment before the player responds to the pass command. Part of this 
 is to compensate for the fact that you can accidentally press the control pad toward the wrong 
 player, but the problem still occurs even when players are directly in front of you. Still, NBA 
 Live 2001's passing game remains relatively smooth: Throwing the ball around the perimeter to a 
 shooter on the other side for a three-point shot or passing out of a layup to the trailing player 
 for the dunk is classic basketball action.           The one-on-one mode is very fun    

 NBA Live 2001's graphics are on par with 2000's, though there are some noticeable enhancements to 
 the players' facial features and to the overall detail, and you can adjust all this to accommodate 
 your hardware. Some of the lesser-known players -- primarily the bench players -- aren't quite as distinctive 
 looking as some of the starting players, but even they look good. Unfortunately, on the medium 
 detail setting, there are some serious problems with player models switching on the fly between 
 low-polygon and high-polygon versions of themselves. When you're in a large group of players or 
 when the quarter ends and the game cuts to the bench players, this can really take away from the 
 overall visual quality of the game as the detail level of the graphics suddenly and noticeably 
 gets worse. As for the fans watching the game, the fan animation is realistic, but individual fans 
 actually look so odd and deformed that it can seem as if you're playing in front of a large gathering 
 of zombies.   

  NBA Live 2001 is a great basketball game. The gameplay follows the classic NBA Live formula -- perhaps 
 too closely -- because of its blend of fast-paced action along with strong simulation elements. The 
 addition of new post-up moves gives some new life to NBA Live's post-up game, but most of the time, 
 everything starts to move so quickly that you're better off just making a strong move to the basket 
 without posting up. The multiplayer mode is also very good, whether you're playing strangers online 
 or a friend on the same computer. But, ultimately, there aren't many new features in this new installment, 
 so if you already have NBA Live 2000, you'll essentially be paying for a roster update. Then again, 
 if you skipped over NBA Live 2000, you shouldn't hesitate to pick up NBA Live 2001.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (3 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: DodgeDuty
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 28, 2008 7:14 pm PT
Review:  I found this game stored, when I was cleaning and decided to install and play it even though I 
 have Live 08. For 2001 the options and gameplay are good. The game isn't a run and gun as players 
 can post. The different modes are fun, like 1 on 1 and season. Graphics though can be really ugly 
 and polygonal, but for some reason it can be decent and good which is strange for how much the 
 game changes from bad to good. The main reason for playing this game though was for seeing the 
 old rosters and players who have retired now. The announcing is lowly for todays standards, but 
 do keep it fresh. Season mode is fun with the fantasy draft, and seeing old players like Ewing, 
 Reggie Miller, Stockton, Molone and Zach Day is fun. Gameplay wise the AI is smart and knows when 
 to shoot a 3 in clutch situations. The key-board controls are weird with using c, f, v and spacebar 
 to move instead of wsad. A custom controls seem manditory as default doesn't have turbo, stealling 
 or posting assigned. There needs play calling, but its still fun so if you can find it for $2 on 
 ebay you should get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: specializentair
Rating: 9.9
Date: May 14, 2007 5:08 pm PT
Review:  learn to swim see you down in arizona bay
  black and white are all i see in my infancy
  red and yellow then came to be
  reaching out to me
  lets me see
  who are you to wave your 
 finger,
  you musta been high
  I know the pieces fit
  cus i watched them fall away
  mildewed and smoldering
  fundamental differing
  pure intention juxtaposed
  will set two lover's 
 souls in motion
  rearranging as they go
  crippling our communication
  It's a bull
  ****
  three ring circus sideshow of
  freaks here in this hopeless **** hole we call L. A
  
 the only way to fix it is to flush it all away
  any **** time, any **** day
  learn to swim see you down in arizona bay 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flightjam
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 30, 2006 4:30 pm PT
Review:  this game had a lot of great features, and for its time it was a great game... comparing it to 
 todays game wouldnt be a good idea because of course todays games of ea nba live basketball are 
 better in graphics and in adding the dunk contest and three point shoot out contest also.. but nba 
 live 2001 was very enjoyable and they did increase from graphics since nba live 2000 by a good 
 amount. it was a classical game and u could even put your face on create a player. i guess that 
 did not work to well because they do not seem to have it in these later games. all the new ones 
 are kind of the same but back around 2000-2003 they had good changes in their games which every 
 year had a cool new improvment to it... now the ones from like 2005-2007 are kind of the same thing.. 
 it seems like all they did was just tweak them a bit by adding a bit better graphics for it and 
 some new players.
  this game is and was great 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
