-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: NBA Live 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sports/nbalive2004/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 17, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.8
Critic Score: 7.9, 12 Review (s)
User Score: 8.0, 375 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Sports
Genre: Basketball Sim
Date:     Nov 11, 2003
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
NBA Live 2004 makes a worthy addition to any basketball fan's collection. 

  The NBA Live series has long-carried a reputation as an enjoyable, though fast-paced, basketball 
 game. Last year's NBA Live 2003 certainly lived up to that billing -- and then some. It was a great 
 game in its own right, but many criticized its breakneck pace and extremely arcadelike feel. While 
 no one will confuse this year's edition with an ultrarealistic rendition of professional basketball, 
 NBA Live 2004 definitely takes a couple of steps closer to being a more serious simulation, with 
 a slower pace and more emphasis on defense and team play. Offering several new features, as well 
 as improvements to the game's graphics, sound, and overall polish, NBA Live 2004 is a good game 
 for Live fans and general basketball fans alike.  

          The half-court set looks more authentic in Live 2004.     

  The first thing veteran 
 Live players may notice is an overhaul of the player animations. The developers at EA Canada have 
 used 10-man motion capturing to mimic the appearance of 10 players working out of the half-court. 
 Instead of moving like individuals who have little or no awareness of their positions on the court, 
 the players working without the ball in Live 2004 react appropriately to one another and use basketball-type 
 maneuvers to move around in the half-court. Players cutting through the lane do so with their hands 
 up in the ready position for a pass. Defenders swim and fight through picks to stay with their 
 man, and post players jostle and fight for position in the low block with a great variety of animations. 
 The new animations do give the game a more genuine feel, when running a half-court offense, and 
 add greatly to the realism and look of Live 2004. Player models have also improved slightly, with 
 faces that generally look very close to their real-life counterparts.  

  Another great addition is that most of the players in the game are wearing the same brand of shoes 
 they wear in real life. Brands like Nike, Adidas, and Reebok are represented in the game, so you'll 
 see Allen Iverson sporting the "Answer 6," while Tracy McGrady is decked out in his signature "T-Mac" 
 kicks. Even the nonbrand generic shoes bear an uncanny resemblance to other brands, like And1. 
 If you play some of the classic all-decade all-star teams, for example, you'll see old-school players, 
 like Magic Johnson, wearing what look like Converse shoes. Many of these shoes are available in 
 the create-a-player mode, and you're able to unlock additional Nike styles from the in-game NBA 
 Store, which also has unlockable jerseys and other apparel. The footwear doesn't have any real 
 impact on the gameplay, but shoes are a big part of basketball fan culture, so adding real shoes 
 to the game is a great way to represent that.  

          Antoine Walker has his Adidas on.     

  The development team has also done a commendable 
 job in the sound department. Aside from a great array of hip-hop tunes to get you in the mood for 
 hooping it up, Live 2004 has gotten an upgrade in the form of new announcers. Players are now treated 
 to the familiar voices of Marv Albert, on play-by-play, and his broadcasting partner, and former 
 NBA coach, Mike Fratello, providing color. Albert delivers many of his signature calls, such as 
 describing a particularly nasty dunk as "delivering the facial." Fratello, in turn, brings up very 
 specific details about many of the players, such as referring to Jason Richardson's recent slam 
 dunk crown and mentioning Gary Payton's nickname as "The Glove." The longtime broadcasting partners 
 do a fantastic job and have so many different things to say that the announcing never seems to 
 feel repetitive.  

  In the stands, you'll hear the crowd reacting to the activity on the court. They'll roar in response 
 to an exciting dunk, or they'll groan listlessly if the home team starts to fall behind. Perhaps 
 more impressive is the player and coach chatter you hear as you play the game. It's not just there 
 as useless filler either. It's dynamic and changes, depending on the situation. If the opposing 
 team seems to be driving to the lane at will, you'll hear your coach yell for "more pressure on 
 the ball." If you're on defense and an opposing player moves to set a screen on your left, your 
 teammates will actually call out "pick left." Sure, it's a little thing, but it adds a great deal 
 of atmosphere to the game.     

  As far as new features in Live 2004 go, perhaps the most significant change is the separation of 
 the shoot and dunk buttons. This means you're able to force your player to attempt a dunk or layup 
 even if you aren't facing the basket or don't have any momentum going toward the basket. If you're 
 too far away from the basket for a dunk, your player will try for a teardrop or a layup off the 
 glass. This change impacts the post-game in a positive way, as you have more control over the type 
 of shot you want to take. No matter where you are, you can always opt for the jump hook or fadeaway 
 jumper. However, if you can get a powerful low-post player, like Shaq, and back him down under 
 the basket, you can often just hit the dunk button, and he'll spin around and throw it down on 
 his defender. If you try it on a defender who does have good position, however, the computer will 
 either call you for the offensive foul, or you'll simply miss the shot with all the contact you 
 create.  

          The jump stop is a new weapon in your offensive arsenal.     

  Another interesting addition is the pro hop button. By pressing this button on a drive to the basket, 
 your player will execute a jump stop. As in real life, this maneuver can give you an extra bit 
 of separation from the on-ball defender, freeing you up for a layup or dunk. In Live 2004, the 
 jump stop sometimes feels a little too powerful. Even if you haven't gotten by your man, doing 
 one can often push back the defender enough for you to get a cheap dunk. There are still drawbacks 
 to using it. It's slower than going up for the layup directly, so that split second of delay may 
 be enough time for a help defender to come in and block the shot. You need to weigh the pros and 
 cons of trying to gain separation from the on-ball defender versus the possibility of getting swatted 
 from the weak side or from behind -- which is actually possible in Live 2004. Unlike last year's 
 version, blocked shots in Live 2004 don't always go sailing out of bounds or into the back court, 
 which is a nice change. You're usually able to rebound a swatted ball.  

  From the post, the pro hop button changes, in context, to become a power dribble button. By pressing 
 it, your player attempts to drop-step around his defender. The downside is that your man will pick 
 up the ball at the end of the maneuver, so if you haven't gotten clear, you've lost your dribble. 

  Rounding out the list of major new features added to the offensive side of the ball is the ability 
 to take control of a player without the ball. By pressing the right thumbstick down and then selecting 
 another button to choose one of the four off-ball players, you're able to move about the court 
 to try and get open. Once you've moved to a good spot, you're able to call for a pass or an alley-oop 
 at the basket. EA has also integrated freestyle control into moving without the ball, so you're 
 able to make sharp cuts, spin off of defenders, slide step, and use other moves to get free from 
 defenders for an open shot.  

  On the defensive side of the ball, you'll notice a new trapping feature has been included. If you 
 double team the man with the ball, you'll see the two defenders position the ballhandler into a 
 trap. The ballhandler can either pass or shoot out of the trap, but if he doesn't get rid of the 
 ball in time, he'll usually get stripped by the defense. The trap gives the inside-outside game 
 an added dimension of realism, as you're able to use a guard to harass a post player who has just 
 received the entry pass and can prevent him from attempting a good shot.  

          Traps are a great way to try and force a turnover.     

  There's one caveat that's 
 worth noting about the controls of the PC version of NBA Live 2004: A dual-analog controller with 
 eight or more buttons is pretty much required to get the most out of the game. Though EA has included 
 some options to make freestyle and other features available using the keyboard, these options are 
 clunky and awkward, to say the least. If you had the intention of playing NBA Live 2004 with the 
 keyboard only, you shouldn't bother.  

  At the default settings, NBA Live 2004 is noticeably slower paced than last year's game. You need 
 to execute a lot better and more carefully out of the half-court set to be successful -- particularly 
 the higher up you ratchet the difficulty. The freestyle moves are still very useful, but they're 
 no longer a free path to a dunk. If the defender has a good position in front of the ballhandler, 
 the two players will collide, and the offensive player will be thwarted on his drive. The slower 
 pace makes defense feel like less of a futile chore and more rewarding if you can get stops. If 
 you don't like the default game settings, EA has given plenty of different slider bar options to 
 adjust game speed, fatigue (turned off by default, even in "simulation" mode) , block, steal, and 
 foul frequency, collision radius, and more.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (11 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: LuDaDJ
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 30, 2008 11:18 pm PT
Review:  EA Sports continues its long running NBA series with NBA Live 2004. The previous game was a fast 
 paced arcade take on NBA basketball, but this year, EA opted to slow the game down and focus on 
 more deliberate gameplay.
  
  First, the graphics and sound are what you'd expect from a EA Sports game. The graphics are improved, 
 and don't look bad, although ESPN NBA Basketball, Sega Sports' offering this year, has NBA Live 
 2004 beat. Player models aren't as close to their real life counterparts as Sega's game. Lefties 
 will shoot free throws as they do in real life. The arenas feature championship banners and retired 
 jerseys hanging from the rafters. The hardwood floors reflect, though not as much as they do in 
 ESPN NBA Basketball. The commentary is provided by Marv Albert and Mike Fratello, and is adequate, 
 but there are very few player specific phrases they'll use.
  
  In addition to the main season and exhibition game modes, NBA Live 2004 offers 1 on 1, practice, 
 and franchise modes. The gameplay has been tweaked this year, and you'll notice the game speed 
 has been slowed down compared to last year's game, and things that you previously took for granted 
 no longer work here. For example, you'll be severely punished for blindly throwing the ball around, 
 as the computer will pick off your errant passes, and the game makes you take the effort to ensure 
 your intended receiver is actually open. There seems to more emphasis on half court tactics to 
 score, as getting around your defender in one on one situations is more difficult this year.
  
  However, to aid in that, NBA Live 2004 introduces a couple of new additions to the controls. 
 There is the pro hop button, which makes your player execute a jump stop, and separate dunk/layup 
 and shoot buttons. Both of these new features, when used together and correctly, can be deadly. 
 You can get a player to drive into the lane, do a pro hop, and lay the ball up all in one motion. 
 At times, the pro hop seems overpowered, as most of the time you're able to create space between 
 your player and any defenders, and when used with bigger players, they get you open for an easy 
 dunk. However, when it fails, it fails miserably, especially far away from the basket, in which 
 your player will just jump in place, forcing you to give up the dribble. The dunk button can also 
 give unwanted results, like when your player encounters too much contact. Also, misusing the dunk 
 button will lead to offensive foul calls against you. The D-pad is still used to call plays, and 
 the Freestyle feature is still activated with the right thumb stick.
  
  A couple of other notable changes this year is in the default settings. This is the first game 
 in the NBA Live series in which the default view is the baseline view instead of a center court 
 view. Also by default, players don't tire, so there are no auto subs. Another new feature which 
 I found more of a novelty than a helpful feature is the off ball feature, in which you can control 
 a player away from the ball, and attempt to get him into a better position for a shot.
  
  There are plenty of unlockables in NBA Live 2004 through the NBA Store. You'll get points for doing 
 accomplishing various tasks during a game, and can use them to purchase jerseys, shoes, and other 
 apparel.
  
  However, NBA Live 2004 has its share of problems that prevent it from being a truly good game. 
 One major problem is with the canned animations, which include players diving for the ball on the 
 floor, and players trapping the ball carrier. After playing a while, you'll recognize these animations 
 when they begin. The problem with these is that they take too long, can't seem to be interrupted, 
 and for a brief moment, you have no control over what happens. One especially frustrating animation 
 is the recovery from a missed shot, and when your player is stuck in this animation, he is unable 
 to grab the rebound.
  
  Also detracting from the game's realism is the frequency of blocked shots, both in the transition 
 and half court game. Too often you'll be on a breakaway well ahead of a defender, go up for the 
 dunk or layup, and suddenly have the defender block your shot because the dunk or layup animation 
 takes too long. Also, it's extremely easy to swat shots in traffic close to the basket, and this 
 happens too frequently.
  
  It's puzzling how both NBA Live 2004 and ESPN NBA Basketball mishandle close shots. There are simply 
 too many missed shots taken within two feet of the basket. Especially when there's contact, there's 
 almost no chance your shot will go in. NBA players simply do not miss this many close shots. Also 
 puzzling is the difficulty of executing a fast break, as players will stop in place to catch a 
 pass instead of the pass leading them to the basket. Some gripes I had with last year's game carry 
 over to NBA Live 2004 as well, which include the CPU inbounding the ball too quickly and the overpowered 
 CPU star players.
  
  The Xbox and PC versions of the game play roughly the same, although the Xbox version plays smoother, 
 because of the lower res graphics. The Xbox version has videos explaining the use of the freestyle 
 controls, and also has the EA Sports Bio, both features the PC version lack.
  
  Although the changes in NBA Live 2004 dramatically change the way you play, its flaws and mistakes 
 are hard to overlook, and overall it's not as fun as NBA Live 2003 was. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leo-i
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 10, 2008 1:41 pm PT
Review:  Brilliant game of basketball.
  This was the first basketball game i had and it was great, cause it's simple easy to play and fun. The 
 graphics were great before, but they are still quite good. You could create your player put it in 
 any teams and change his ratings. There was career mode (you control the team of your choice, make 
 upgrades for players and trade players.......) , the playoff mode, and you could do streets 1on1. The 
 easy part in this game is shooting, and i love the dunks in this game and also the 
 
  Dunks you can  smash under the basket, 180 alley-oop, one hand 
 dunk and alley-oop.........
  For me this game is a classic, cause i can play it anytime even in ten years i can still play this 
 game no matter what.
  The game is simply great and not complicated (not like FIFA 08) , so if you want an easy, simple, 
 fun basketball game well this is the one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: youtack
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 23, 2007 6:34 am PT
Review:  A solid game with good graphics, commentary, gameplay, and features. I would recommend it to anyone 
 that wants to begin playing sports games. It isn't the hardest game on the market but not a cupcake 
 either. The first big that I noticed when I started playing this game is that the freestyle control 
 on offense really comes in handy. If you have a Dual action controller for your computer, which 
 I highly recommend, you can just move the right thumbstick and unlock tons of moves that can really 
 help you get to the hoop. On defense it can help you steal and maybe block but it would be better 
 to just use your normal controls on D. Another thing Inoticed that you have a shoot button and 
 a lay-up/dunk button. It is very important to use these correctly. If you try to make a lay-up 
 from the three point line you are going to have a really low percentage shot. Another thing, PAY 
 ATTENTION TO THE ICONS BELOW PLAYERS. They show you their skills and will heip you greatly. The 
 most important ones are 3 point shooter and blocker. If you have a 3point shooter try to give him 
 the ball a lot and take 3 point shots from him. He is meant to take 3 point shots with and could 
 win you the game. The blocker is always good to keep at center since he can block key shots in 
 and out. Dynasty mode is a very good simulation of a nba season. I used to play dynast mode on 
 all of my sports games but now I play Exhibtion. Anyway their are injuries, trades, free agents, 
 and yes playoffs. But, if you don't want to play a whole season and just o straight to the playoffs 
 than Playoffs mode is just for you. Overall I would also tell you to look at the downloads on this 
 site also since it will make the game even funner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grego714
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 24, 2007 1:25 am PT
Review:  Ok..., I'll admit I picked this game up in the bargain bin at EB games... and I am glad that I have 
 it.. I need to get my basketball fix... and this game satisfies the basketball craving... I only 
 wished my Golden State Warriors were rated higher. But that's part of the fun.... playing as an 
 underdog and trying to beat and or whip teams like the Lakers.. And as of this writing I haven't 
 picked up my PS3 yet.... so this game is doing a great job of keeping my basketball needs taken 
 care of... It is laid out great so you can tell who has the ball and where you are on the court... the 
 passing is good although sometimes it gets crazy... the camera angles are good... the alley oops 
 are cool ! The free throws are done right...... and this is a plus to my small game collection.. 
 I recommend this game highly. Epecially since I read here that the newer versions (2005 and 2006) 
 are 'stuck in neutral' according to the review.. so... by the time I pick up the PS3 or the Xbox 
 360...
  (Halo3 is weighing heavily on my mind..) I am hoping the franchise does get to that next level 
 !!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rei_gs69
Rating: 8
Date: May 19, 2006 7:58 pm PT
Review:  compared to nba live 2003, this is just a mirror of it. i expected much more from the game. seeing 
 its predecessors, i thought that it would have the x factor that will set a higher bar for the 
 following games of the franchise. the graphics were an "ok" for me seeing little has change and 
 the audio was plain, in fact most of the game had glitches. it is still a great multiplayer game 
 and still has game for the genre. its value maybe short, considering the following games of the 
 franchise would do better and would push the limits of the ps2 and xbox consoles. i would say this 
 is a plain game having reviews and comments of "ok", "alright", "fine", "plain". it was, nontheless, 
 an effort from ea sports. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Achilles438
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 24, 2006 2:17 pm PT
Review:  I have always been a big fan of basketball, I have played it in real life all of my life, so naturally 
 I would like the video game. I first had this game for pc then ps2 and I really enjoyed playing 
 it. The graphics are not the best Ive seen, but they are sufficient enough to satisfy me. The 
 sound track is nice, with a collection of songs remade for the NBA game. I think the controls in 
 this game are the best in the series, and in my opinion dont get any better in the next 2 games. 
 The play book really stood out for me, as they showed a demonstration with the circles and Xs to 
 show what the play looks like and where you are supposed to pass the ball too. The season made 
 is nice to play. I once played all 82 games over a period of 2 weeks. I got maybe half way, then 
 I simulated the rest, but it was fun, and I did play the playoffs though and won the title. I enjoyed 
 this game a lot, and any true basketball fan when they are not on the actual court should be playing 
 this game to learn some new plays to run and to just have fun.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: _EradicatoR_
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 18, 2006 7:21 am PT
Review:  NBA 2004 features one of the most exciting and intense Basketball gameplay. The graphics are very 
 well done and the player models are very real. The stadiums in the game look very realistic and 
 make an ambiance of real Basketball. 
  
  It also has a practice mode in which you can choose any player from the teams and test your skills 
 and try to master the shots so that you can use them in real gameplay. The 1 ON 1 mode is also 
 a good feature in the game in which you can you can play with any player of any team against another. 
 
  
  The Season mode is the main highlight of the game in which you can manage any team and play a whole 
 season to become a successful manager. In the season you can improve the skills of the players 
 play matches against other teams and you can also forfeit a match or even simulate a match to get 
 instant results, the simulated results are based on the team skills and a wee bit of LUCK.
  
  The multiplayer in the game is really very sluggish and ping rates are always high and this 
 feature is a total let off in the game. IMO this is one of the biggest flaws in the game. The game 
 does not has the three point shoot out mode which was present in most of the previous NBA live 
 games. EA can definitely make better games than this.
  
  All in all this game is a great time pass and i recommend you to get your hands on this game and 
 enjoy every bit of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nunyerbiz
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jul 25, 2004 2:40 pm PT
Review:  Why can't anyone make a good, single player Basketball game??? The last time anything game legitimately 
 close was some of the Sega Genesis NBA Live games from the mid-90s. Is this game THAT difficult 
 to translate into video games? 
  
  Let me start with the good: Lots of options, sliders, a decent enough Dynasty / GM modes. Graphics 
 are nice and the game runs with a smooth framerate. Sound is well implemented and while it can 
 get repetitive, it's never annoying. 
  
  The bad: Control for the PC version is just a bear. I'm using a Gravis AFtershock, and loose is 
 the best way I can describe it. Your player sometimes runs down court just the way he should. Sometimes 
 he gets stuck in the freestyle-mode limbo where it looks like he's having a seizure. All I want 
 is to be able to walk my man past half court without him having a fit... geez. Passing is a joke 
 and is simply not precise. There is an direct-passing mode available and it does make things a 
 little better, but overall the passing is just poor. The flow of the game is severly dosrupted 
 by the poorly implemented passing. Think that guy is open?!? He won't be after it takes 3 seconds 
 longer then it should for that lame pass to reach him... Forget trying to drive to the basket either... 
 the collision detection cause your player to leap back three feet everytime any contact with a 
 defender is made. Of course, the CPU can take the perfect lanes and avoid the contact for the most 
 part... ugh.
  
  The lay-up/dunk button is a nice additon as is the drop step button. Unfortunately these "NBA" 
 players aren't smart enough to just go strong to the hole. Whenever a CPU opponent gets within 
 a step or two, your player trys to "adjust" his shot in mid-air. These become truly ugly to watch 
 as what was once an easy "draw the foul" finger roll/dunk becomes an off-balance over-the-shoulder 
 brick. Not to mention the  lay-up off the bottom of the rim. 
 Yes, we are to believe that NBA quality players actually lay-up balls off the front or bottom of 
 the rim 5-10 times per game!!! (The CPU makes this blunder as well)
  
  Games quickly devovle into 125-75 blowouts (easy difficuly levels) or 105-100 nail biters where 
 both teams routinely shoot 70%+ and might have 5 offensive rebounds total. You'll quickly grow 
 bored of blowing away everybody on the easier difficuly levels. Then again, you'll grow just as 
 frustrated when Golden State and Denver suddenly go off for 72% shooting nights as soon as you 
 dare crank up the difficulty. Why is it so hard to balance these things? I just want a decent, 
 well-balanced single player game. I want the good teams to play good and the bad teams to be bad. 
 I don't want to either blow everybody away or watch everybody have ungodly shooting averages based 
 on one change in difficulty. 
  
  Anyways, The 6.7 score is about how I feel about the game. It's not as terrible as my review makes 
 it out. It can be fun to play, regardless of some pretty serious issues. I don't feel ripped off 
 by any means, but I only paid $15.00 for the game on sale at Target. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grooveeo
Rating: 4.5
Date: Dec 10, 2003 5:30 pm PT
Review:  first of all i had a look at the video, here at gamespot. to me it looked excactly like NBA Live 
 2003. so i gave it a try and found out that a lot of the gameplay had changed. 
  
  it is not as fast-paced as the older versions - which i like alot. it lookes more realistic and 
 i like two-button-concept as well. so i was quite satisfied with the new version.... unitl i found 
 out that that there is no offense in this game anymore. no offense?
  yes indeed. i can't remember if i ever had a fastbreak, because it is almost impossible to get 
 one. and forget about crossovers to fake your opponents. every time you "touch" an opponent you 
 will bounce automatically backwards to where you came from. passing sucks as well because it never 
 works out the way you want it to. 
  
  all in all this game was so fun-killing that i had to delete it instantly. i am a fan of the whole 
 nba live series and i bought every single game since they started it. but this one is a BIG BIG 
 DISAPPOINTMENT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tentman12041964
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 29, 2003 9:37 pm PT
Review:  People please play the NBA leagues before you say anything. All basketball games (just like all 
 real-time strategies except Homeworld) are boring to play against computer, which is just there 
 to prepare you for playing against other people. NBA Live 2004 has improved a LOT for online play, 
 especially lag-wise, yes you can make freethrows now, silly running around for steal strategy does 
 not work any more, running around under basket tapping shoot button for a lay-up does not work 
 any more, and many other biggest blunders of the last game have been taken care of. The passing 
 feature you're whining about looks a little weird sometimes but it gets the job done, meaning that 
 whoever is supposed to end up with the ball ends up with it, and fast-breaks are not that hard 
 to make either. Play the leagues, people, not AI or EASO... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SkullLeader00
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 12, 2003 8:14 pm PT
Review:  WHY? why do i subject myself to the pain and suffering EVERY SINGLE YEAR? Maybe its just me. Maybe 
 I am stupid. but every year, being a huge NBA fan, I impatiently wait for the PC version of NBA 
 live to come out.
  
  No difference this year. I wait for so long, rush to buy it hoping maybe this will be the year 
 it is actually worth it, and today I play for 3 hours, and I HATE IT. Why is it so hard to make 
 an NBA game fun? or smooth?
  
  Maybe I am spoiled by the engine Madden uses, and how realistic it can be. But NBA LIVE 2004 is 
 a complete dissapointment and a waste of money.
  
  How can I describe it? passing stinks. NO nba player passes like that. its the same every time. 
 It takes about 1.7 seconds to run from one side of the court to the next. Shoot is fine. there 
 is now a dunk button, wow. But everyone crowds the paint so its hard. The music is annoying. the 
 crowd is a 2d cardboard poster.
  
  i don't know what to do right now ... i guess its Call of Duty for the next 6 months. oh and yea 
 you can't even create your own team! and uh hem, what the hell is this preseason training camp. 
 you can't even do it! wow, we get to adjust the sliders! 
  
  my opinion ... don't bother with this game. just pretend to play a fun NBA game. your imagination 
 would undoubtably give you many more hours of entertainment.
  
  sorry EA I am a fan, but not a fan of NBA live 2004. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
