-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: NBA Live 07
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sports/nbalive07/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Commentary and sound are top-notch.
 Slam-dunk contest is fun.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Animation is spotty, and there's lots of clipping.
 New dunk and layup buttons make controls needlessly complex.
 Glitchy gameplay.
 Not a whole lot new here.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov  3, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.9
Critic Score: 6.3, 9 Review (s)
User Score: 6.8, 566 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Sports
Genre: Basketball Sim
Date:     Sep 25, 2006 &raquo;  
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
NBA Live 07 isn't much different from last year's game, and the numerous bugs and glitches make 
 it not much fun to play. 

  If you're in the market for an NBA game on the PC, NBA Live 07 is your only choice. Unfortunately, 
 it's not a very good choice. There aren't any noteworthy new features; the visuals are the same 
 as last year, and the gameplay is riddled with bugs and glitches. Live 07 seems as though it were 
 rushed out the door, and it's an all-around disappointing game.  

          The slam-dunk contest is one of the game's highlights.     

  All of the game modes 
 from Live 06 return. You can choose from quick play, season, dynasty mode, playoffs, all-star weekend, 
 freestyle challenge, one-on-one, practice, and slam-dunk school. The NBA all-star weekend includes 
 the rookie challenges, three-point shoot-out, slam-dunk contest, and, of course, the all-star game. 
 The dunk contest is easily the highlight of the weekend mode due to its depth and the large number 
 of great-looking dunks you can perform. The freestyle challenge lets you take on friends in the 
 slam-dunk contest or three-point shoot-out.  

  Dynasty mode places you in the role of general manager for the team of your choice. After hiring 
 an assistant coach, an assistant, a trainer, and a scout, it's off to training camp where you set 
 your team's training priorities. Over the course of a season, you can use your staff in a number 
 of ways. Assistant coaches can research rumors and schedule team events, assistants work with players 
 to improve their skills, trainers help players heal faster, and scouts can evaluate talent year-round 
 in preparation for the draft. In addition to monitoring players' happiness and overall team chemistry, 
 you'll need to keep an eye on their fatigue levels to make sure they don't get too worn out over 
 the course of the season. If you're looking to improve your team via a trade, you can do so. Another 
 way to better your squad is through the draft -- a process made easier if you keep your scouts busy 
 during the year. Your team can still perform well if you don't keep your staff occupied every day, 
 but putting in the work will yield tangible results.  

  Last year, EA wanted to highlight the difference between the great players and the average Joe 
 by introducing the concept of superstar players, and it has expanded the concept this year. Each 
 star player is designated as having one or more superstar abilities -- high flyer (great dunks) , 
 scorer (athletic layups) , playmaker (fancy passes) , post (power dunks) , and shooter (variety of 
 jumpers) . Strong defensive players are designated as inside or outside stoppers and have a wider 
 array of defensive moves available. The best of the best are designated as "superstars" and have 
 flashier moves than regular stars. Freestyle moves are performed by holding down the freestyle 
 move button and a face button. The moves are easy enough, and while some are more useful than others, 
 they add a lot of variety and pizzazz to the game. Changing players' abilities can be done on the 
 fly, but you'll rarely need to do so.  

  Players with a knack for stepping up in big spots, like Robert Horry, are now designated as "x-factors." 
 If you use an x-factor enough during a game, he'll heat up and earn temporary superstar abilities. 
 This works as advertised, but it's not very useful. If you're in a close game, you've got more 
 important tasks to worry about than making sure Ben Gordon gets his touches.  

  If you're thinking about playing Live 07 with a keyboard, forget it, because it's near impossible. 
 You'll need a controller with two analog sticks to get the most out of the game. The basic controls 
 are easy to learn, and freestyle control, which is mapped to the right analog stick, feels great. 
 It's simple to use the stick to perform advanced ballhandling moves, and it's just as intuitive 
 when turning a normal jumper into a fadeaway or stealing the ball. Touch passes are another new 
 feature, but they don't add much to the package since they're rarely needed. Dunks and layups are 
 now mapped to separate buttons. This is supposed to add a risk/reward element to your shot selection, 
 but the concept is poorly executed since it's difficult to figure out if you'll be able to make 
 a dunk before you commit. If you elect to dunk and your player isn't going to make it, he'll either 
 switch to a layup or clank it off the rim, making the option pointless. Hop steps are one of the 
 better changes to the control scheme and are easily performed by pressing up on the right analog 
 stick. Free throws are shot by pulling down and then pushing up on the right analog stick. The 
 new mechanic works OK, but the old system was fine, so this change seems superfluous.  

          The visuals haven't changed much from last year.     

  You might think that NBA Live 
 07 is significantly more difficult than Live 06, but that isn't the case since they just bumped 
 up the default difficulty to all-star. Teams are supposed to run more realistic offenses this year, 
 but if they are, the difference is tough to see. The action feels as fast as ever, with most teams 
 hustling down the court for fast-break buckets. The teams that don't fast-break won't waste any 
 time getting shots off quickly. Offensive players run the same exact pattern on every break, never 
 cutting to the hoop when you need them to. For the most part, players don't work very hard to get 
 open in the half-court offense, and they tend to be content to just stand around. Should you want 
 to run a specific play, you can call one via the D pad. Defensively, the CPU is aggressive, rotating 
 quickly, fighting through picks, and double-teaming often. You will notice players winding up out 
 of bounds for no particular reason, and there are an inordinate number of offensive foul calls. 

  NBA Live 07 comes apart because of the numerous glitches and bugs found throughout the game. Regardless 
 of how tired players are, the CPU won't substitute them out; certain players that should be able 
 to dunk (like Rasheed Wallace) can't throw one down to save their lives; free-throw controls periodically 
 reverse; and direct passing is a mess. Though it's near impossible to play with a keyboard, very 
 few brands of controllers are supported, and it's a cumbersome process trying to get one to work. 
 We also had difficulties installing the game -- we finally got it to run on the third PC we tried. 
 To top things off, the game also crashed to the desktop on several occasions.  

  Online play includes ranked and unranked matches, as well as one-on-one, slam-dunk contest, and 
 the three-point shoot-out. As is typical with online-enabled EA games, the initial sign-in process 
 is cumbersome, but once you're logged in you'll find that the menus are easy to navigate. On the 
 rare occasion that you manage to get a good connection to another player, the game runs well enough, 
 but lag is frequently a problem and makes events like the three-point shoot-out and slam-dunk contest 
 rather frustrating.  

  Other than some slight tweaks here and there, the game looks identical to last year's NBA Live, 
 which means the visuals are starting to show their age. The frame rate isn't horrible, but it does 
 struggle to keep up on fast breaks and when the paint gets crowded. It's tough to say that players' 
 faces look realistic, since they have inordinately large heads, but if you ignore the odd scaling, 
 you'll have no problem recognizing players. For the most part, players will turn their heads in 
 the general direction of the action, but you'll often find their blank stares set in the opposite 
 direction, and they tend to warp from one animation to the next. Clipping issues -- such as a player's 
 arm passing through another's or the ball going directly through someone's chest -- are rampant throughout 
 the game. In fact, players constantly grab rebounds or dunk by reaching through the glass. The 
 arenas are faithfully replicated (other than the Raptors' home court) , and the animated crowds 
 look good.  

  There's very little ESPN content in the actual game, but if you're online you can get updated scores 
 and information from the ESPN ticker that runs across the screen, and you can read news pages in 
 the online lobby. The ESPN Radio SportsCenter feature that all of the other versions of Live 07 
 have is nowhere to be found here.  

          The right analog stick is used to shoot free throws.     

  One area in which NBA Live 
 excels is its commentary. Marv Albert does the play-by-play, and player-turned-announcer Steve 
 Kerr provides color commentary. The two have great chemistry together in real life, and this comes 
 across in the video game in the off-the-cuff remarks and banter between the two. Ernie Johnson 
 is joined by Greg Anthony for the all-star weekend, which means after a weak dunk you'll get to 
 hear Anthony say off-the-wall cracks like "I'd rather watch girls dunk on an eight-foot rim." NBA 
 Live 07's soundtrack is vastly improved over last year's. The well-rounded soundtrack includes 
 a wide variety of artists from around the world, including Sergio Mendes &amp; The Black Eyed Peas, 
 Gnarls Barkley, Jurassic 5 featuring Dave Matthews, Rhymefest, Lady Sovereign, and Talib Kweli. 

  The best things you can say about NBA Live 07 are that it sounds great and that the slam-dunk contest 
 is entertaining. There are lots of different play modes, but all of the options in the world are 
 worthless when the gameplay has so many problems. If you simply must pick up a copy of NBA Live 
 this year, the PlayStation 2 and Xbox versions are by far your best bets -- the PC version is inferior 
 to them in every way.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (39 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: fandom888
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 6, 2008 3:31 am PT
Review:  Lately Ea Sports seems to be bringing one dissapointing game after another. NBA Live is a typical 
 case, as the worth of NBA is not shown at all in this broken game.
  
  To begin, there is not much to be added since the previous game. No new features at all. Just more 
 controls, which will confuse you, whereas they are not needed to play.
  
  But overally, the game is awful. The gameplay is the biggest negative achievement the developers 
 have ever done. Except from the catastrophical style of play the game has, it is full of bugs and 
 numerous glitches which will certainly scratch at your claw.
  
  Nevertheless, in all this havoc, two modes of the game can be viewed as positive. The first is 
 the dynasty mode, the continuation of the previous year's innovative manager play, and the All-Star 
 weekend, which is really worth its money.
  
  The graphics of the game is the game's worst part. While clipping and frame rate problems do exist 
 everywhere in the game, there is no visual advancement till the previous game.
  Luckily, the music and sound of the game touch excellence.
  
  NBA Live is the worst of the 
 series. While there are many pros, they are not enough, whereas its cons are more serious. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reedy14
Rating: 10
Date: May 15, 2008 1:15 pm PT
Review:  Well, since my thing is bigger, very good (and hard) . MY MY MY MY MY MY MY MY MY MY MY MY MY MY 
 MY MY MY MY MY MY MY MY MY MY MY MY MY MY MY MY MY MY MY MY MY MY MY MY MY MY MY MY MY MY MY MY 
 MY MY MY MY MY MY MY MY MY MY MY MY MY MY MY MY MY MY MY MY MY MY MY MY MY MY MY MY MY MY MY MY 
 MY MY MY MY MY MY MY MY MY MY MY THING THING THING THING THING THING THING THING THING THING THING 
 THING THING THING THING THING THING THING THING THING THING THING THING THING THING THING THING 
 THING THING THING THING THING THING THING THING THING THING THING THING THING THING THING THING 
 THING THING THING THING THING THING THING THING THING THING THING THING THING THING THING THING 
 THING THING THING THING THING THING THING THING THING THING THING THING THING THING THING THING 
 THING THING THING THING THING THING THING THING THING THING THING THING THING THING THING THING 
 THING THING THING THING THING THING THING THING THING THING THING THING THING THING THING THING 
 THING THING THING THING THING THING THING THING THING THING THING THING THING THING THING THING 
 THING THING THING THING THING THING THING THING THING THING THING THING THING THING THING THING 
 THING THING THING THING THING THING THING THING THING THING THING THING! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paytonlow
Rating: 2.5
Date: Nov 9, 2007 6:12 am PT
Review:  What the hell is going on with EA?! Didn't they use their brains?! It wasted my money!! All things 
 went wrong. I can not set the controller, and the keyboard playing is nightmare. There is no way 
 to save the option setup, it will return to default every time when I start the game. The Option 
 Menu is a mass. However, the only improvement is better graphics. I just played it about 30 minutes 
 then threw it under my bed. Every fans have to play the NBA Live series because of no other NBA 
 games on PC. Hope all these bugs will never happen again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: afjsayfgsjbrfbf
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 10, 2007 12:51 pm PT
Review:  nice basket game, fun to play with friends, with accurate roster you can have a great time, if 
 you like basket, play it, it worth it,
  
  this i really a better game than the 06, the capability of changing in-game the freestyle, its 
 much better that just having one for all the game, but this can bring trobles when you have players 
 like kobe or tmac that have like 6 freestyles xD the perfect is like garnett that have 3 accurate 
 and very good freestyle
  
  the extras are very good, specially the 13 points from tmac in 30 seconds vs spurs, just look at 
 parker face, and popoich too, if you believe me, play it and watch the extras videos
  
  Kevin Garnett, Baron Davis, Steve Nash the best basketball player arround the world
  
  i love 
 this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yogi1994
Rating: 1
Date: Jul 28, 2008 10:38 pm PT
Review:  Bad game all round i don't want to talk about it so to waste the space i will say this:
  Bad game all round Bad game all round Bad game all round Bad game all round Bad game all round 
 Bad game all round Bad game all round Bad game all round Bad game all round Bad game all round 
 Bad game all round Bad game all round Bad game all round Bad game all round Bad game all round 
 Bad game all round Bad game all round Bad game all round Bad game all round Bad game all round 
 Bad game all round Bad game all round Bad game all round Bad game all round Bad game all round 
 Bad game all round Bad game all round Bad game all round Bad game all round Bad game all round 
 Bad game all round Bad game all round Bad game all round Bad game all round Bad game all round 
 Bad game all round Bad game all round Bad game all round Bad game all round Bad game all round 
 Bad game all round Bad game all round Bad game all round Bad game all round Bad game all round 
 Bad game all round Bad game all round Bad game all round Bad game all round Bad game all round 
 Bad game all round Bad game all round Bad game all round Bad game all round Bad game all round 
 Bad game all round Bad game all round Bad game all round Bad game all round Bad game all round 
 Bad game all round Bad game all round Bad game all round Bad game all round Bad game all round 
 Bad game all round Bad game all round Bad game all round Bad game all round Bad game all round 
 Bad game all round 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chad_revolution
Rating: 6.4
Date: Apr 9, 2007 3:46 am PT
Review:  Nba live returns for the 2007 season with ridiculously bad graphics, few glitches and some slight 
 improvements. for example they added two new freestyle superstar type outside stopper and the inside 
 scorer .And a star level type player .Superstar moves are overkillleading to unbalance gameplay. Gameplay 
 is still the same but they separate the dunk button and the lay-up button which is unnecessary 
 makes the gameplay complicated. The best features here is the slam-dunk contest which is fun. and 
 the 3point contest .And thats about it. Just some minor tweaks. But if youre looking for a solid 
 basketball on pc this would do. But Nba 2k7 is way better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grottekvarnen
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 3, 2007 11:01 am PT
Review:  Today Basketball is very underestimated by the most players . I do not know many players who play 
 NBA live series or something related to the game . Nba live series are very good and show all the 
 advantages of the sport called Basketball . They may have not great graphics but they have an incredible 
 gameplay . The game is formed by many features such as tricks,
  dunks , umbelievable 3 point shoots and many more. We can also say that
  the graphics are also 
 improved . Nba live 07 is game that shouldn' t be missed by anyone ( especially from fans) . Just 
 take it , play it and you will know what am talking about!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slipknot411
Rating: 4.4
Date: Feb 25, 2007 8:40 pm PT
Review:  THIS GAME IS SOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO BAD! GRAPHIC WISE AND GAMEPLAY WISE THIS GAME FOR THE PC ANYWAYS 
 IS A WASTE OF GOOD TIME AND MONEY! PLEASE IS U R IN UR RIGHT MIND, DO NOT PURCHASE OR EVEN BOTHER 
 TO INSTALL SUCHA HORRIBLE GAME!
  WORSE GAME EA HAS MADE IN A LONG TIME!: ( ( ( ( ( NBA 2005 WAS EVEN BETTER THAN THIS AND IM NOT TALKING 
 ABOUT THE FULL GAME IM TALKING ABOUT THE DEMO!!! WE SHOULD ACTUALLY GIVE THEM A THUMBS UP FOR BEING 
 ABLE TO REDIFY WAT A HORRIBLE GAME IS!
  WOW YOU GO EA GAMES MAKE ANOTHER ONE AND U MIGHT EVEN SELL A FEW BCUZ PPL WILL BE SAYING HOW BAD 
 IT IS!
  K LEAVE IT AT THIS
  STUPID CHOICE TO PLAY NBA 07 OR PC OR ANY OTHER CONSOLE! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: e-mat
Rating: 5.3
Date: Feb 11, 2007 11:37 am PT
Review:  Note: I'm reviewing the game with patch applied, otherwise the game is barely playable.
  
  So a new year, a new NBA Live, new set of bugs and not much new here. Sadly, even if we pretend 
 that the bugs aren't there, the game is still mediocre.
  
  GAMEPLAY - slightly changed but as bad as last year I really hated four things about last years 
 game's actual games. Not surprisingly EA hasn't fixed any of them...
  1) Offensive rebounding was a huge problem last year and it is again this year, albeit not so glaring. 
 I still get 15+ O. Reb./game and give up just as much. The problem is still the same - boxing out. 
 Defenders just refuse to do it sometimes. And of course - the magnetic hands effect is all over 
 the place again. Overall the rebounding has gotten a little better as this year guards try to fight 
 for the rebounds unlike last year.
  2) In Live 06 it was impossible to block jumpshots and when you somehow managed to block one, it 
 didn't count. Well it's the same this year. The only shots you're going to block are lay-ups and 
 dunks. Height is irrelevant - you won't block jumpshots taken by a guy half-foot shorter than you 
 but you can block a seven footers dunk with someone 6'5 ... Also the players still volunteer for 
 the blocks on lay-ups.
  3) The improbable comebacks from large deficits are still in the game despite the new intensity 
 meter and momentum . If you'd ask me, I'd say they're there just for looks and don't affect anything 
 other than the noise the crowd makes. Too many times CPU starts making every single shot no matter 
 how contested (with CPU assistance off of course) .
  4) CPU drives, I throw him to the floor, he somehow throws the ball in the air... AND 1. That is 
 so frickin annoying! If the CPU drives and you try to contest his shot there are two options - 
 a) you block the shot; b) it's a foul and he still makes the basket; c) drive and dish - not an option 
 in million years. If you have good shot blockers, try to block, if you don't then forget about 
 it. Tuning down the foul slider results in less fouls in your favour at the other end first and 
 foremost.
  The one thing that wasn't a big problem last year was transition defense but it is really poor 
 this year. Your AI controlled teammates just don't run back. It looks like they're jogging on Sunday 
 morning or something but it really pisses off. The best bet is to intentionally foul the opposition 
 as soon as there's a fast break coming up. If my memory serves me correct, EA said that they improved 
 the transition offense. Well... they didn't - it still sucks, just the defense sucks even more...
 
  Many sliders are still broken - Shot block ability, Offensive rebounding, Defensive rebounding, 
 Adjusted shot percentage, Poor release shot percent, Pro-Hop effectiveness don't impact the gameplay 
 at all!
  Dynasty - Simulation engine is still terrible. The chemistry thing doesn't seem to affect anything. 
 Generated rookies are still 6'0 220 SGs, 6'5 290 PFs, 5'10 160 PGs and 9'11 220 Cs only this year 
 they are superstars with some being rated above 90. Player rotation reasoning for AI teams is questionable 
 at best. Free agents rather sit 10 years in free agency than accept a smaller contract and. Only 
 PFs compete for MVP as Kobe's, LeBron's and Dwyane's of the league are scrubs in EA's eyes. Player 
 development is very slow. The positives are - a) CPU teams make trades; b) ... The sad thing is that 
 besides dynasty there isn't much to do in the game.
  
  There are some improvements though. Putting a hand in the shooters face has some effect so playing 
 defence is rewarding. Also it's harder to play 1on1 so teamwork is important. You can control the 
 tempo of the game somewhat. I had about 10 games out of about 150 on Live 06 where I could prevent 
 the CPU from scoring 100 points on me in 48 minutes. This year is different and I actually am able 
 to shut teams down defensively and win even if I score only 80 points myself. Last year the usual 
 score was 120-110 whereas this year it something like 100-90. Overall the game is easy because 
 of the bad AI. CPU always runs the same plays and if they fail then PG drives or shoots a jumper.
 
  
  GRAPHICS - nothing impressive
  
  The graphics haven't changed much from last year. Most of the players look nice and only some are 
 poorly done.
  However, the courts are terrible this year with some bright lighting spot at the middle which makes 
 them look ugly.
  The crowd is still terrible.
  The shoes are too shiny and the jerseys are blurry.
  Also there are some animation glitches.
 
  
  SOUND - louder crowd, better commentary
  
  The crowd feels more like into it but as far as I can tell EA just increased their volume - nothing 
 new with how they sound. It sounds better regardless.
  Commentary has definitely improved. There are new lines added, new jokes and this time comments 
 are rarely mistimed. There aren't that many comments about contested shots being wide open. Marv 
 and Steve have done a solid job.
  
  VALUE - bigger to those who like run'n'gun
  
  This game is really far from simulation and will appeal to those who enjoy watching Phoenix and 
 don't really enjoy playing defence. But considering that it is too similar to Live 06 and even 
 Live 2005 I have to say - pass this one.
  
  TILT - a poor game or no game at all?
  
  The game can be quite enjoyable at times but also pretty frustrating but as long as there's no 
 2k on PC I don't really have a choice. EA shouldn't rush their games out and make sure they're 
 bug-free at least. If you have 06 or 2005, don't buy this one... and the next one probably too... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cruxe
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 8, 2007 11:50 pm PT
Review:  I don't know why everyone keeps on putting this game down. I nearly didn't get it because of all 
 the reviews saying it was a bad game, but after i couldn't find a new roster patch for 06 i decided 
 to get 07.... and now I'm happy i did, very happy.
  
  My friend owns the game on PS2 and i considered buying that version first because it seemed like 
 a good game and the reviews were a lot better for the ps2 version. But i stuck by PC and it was, 
 now i look back, a very good choice. (even my friend wants it on PC now) :P
  
  OK, I've only played the game with the update, and i have to say there are a few improvements from 
 06... more realism when it comes to small things like ally-ops unlike in 06 were you could just 
 hit the ally button and you were 80% guaranteed to score. In 07 it takes a lot more timing and 
 when you do pull one off its a lot more rewarding. Also the overall difficulty is increased, i 
 used to win games on 06 on superstar level by 10-20 pts every time, in 07 i struggle for a good 
 win on all-star mode. Enhancements to the superstar players such as on the fly swapping and more 
 superstar types are also a good addition and i love the new X-factor player, works great. Also 
 the player movements look a lot better and not as repetitive as before. There are a few let downs 
 as with any game. graphic wise could have been a bit better (still noticeably better than 06) . 
 And maybe a few new cross over moves wouldn't go astray With the patch installed i am yet to notice 
 any bug/glitch with the game what so ever. In conclusion i think it is well worth the update if 
 you are an NBA live fan. But if you still think you have a lot of playing hours left on 06 you 
 COULD stay with that... even though with all EA games there are not a lot of updates, the updates 
 they have made work well and are all good additions (love the new lob pass) . I use a joy pad for 
 the game but have played with a keyboard against friends, and if you were happy with the keyboard 
 on previous NBA games it will do fine.
  
  ANY WAY. enough from me. hope i helped you in some way... if your thinking of not updating just 
 because of a couple of reviews and you are a big NBA live fan. I WOULD UPDATE! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LoJo10
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 5, 2007 2:33 pm PT
Review:  There are a few things I'd like you, the reader to keep in mind while reading this review.
  
  1. I haven't played NBA Live since 2003.
  2. I played NBA 2K5 and NBA 2K6.
  3. This review 
 of the game is the patched version of the game.
  
  All that being said, I'd like to say that this game is probably the best overall basketball game 
 experience I've had.
  
  In general, the gameplay is very good. However, some features that you can use in the game are 
 pretty hard to execute, so it's a detriment to the gameplay score. Star players have these star 
 moves, but it takes time to learn.
  
  Another frustrating thing is the layup and dunk and shoot buttons. Three different ways to shoot 
 the basketball?!?! Well, at first it sounds daunting, because you really have to think when you're 
 driving the lane. After a while though, you come to appreciate all the different shot selections.
 
  
  Probably the two most frustrating things in the game are these things:
  
  1. Point guards generally dominate the game (they can score 40 points if you don't make an adjustment) 
 and don't pass.
  2. You get charged for a lot of charging offensive fouls where if the same exact play happened 
 for the other team, it would either be a foul on you, or the refs wouldn't call it, allowing the 
 player to blow by you and score an easy two.
  
  But other than that the gameplay is very exciting and you get used to the flaws and adjust your 
 strategy.
  
  The graphics are good if turned all the way up. I've got a 1GB RAM and AMD 3800+ and a 7300GT and 
 I max it up to something like 1280*1024*32 and high for everything - the game looks awesome.
  
  The music is great when you're navigating through the menus. The commentary with Marv Albert 
 and Steve Kerr is awesome - it really sounds like you're listening to a real basketball game!
 
  
  The dynasty mode is very awesome too. There are a lot of things to do - you scout rookies before 
 the draft with scouts, train your players with your assistants, heal injuries with a trainer, and 
 research rumors and set the schedule with your assistant coach. The dynasty mode is very deep and 
 fun to play - it's like you are a real General Manager in the NBA. (You can still play the games 
 in Dynasty mode.) In some ways I think it's sort of like an RPG.
  
  Anywho, with the game patched, and the patch is available so download it if you get it - this is 
 a very good game - it plays realistically and the Dynasty mode is awesome.
  
  It's worth buying if you're into basketball or sports games.
  
  You'll have a good time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marvinwee
Rating: 3
Date: Jan 28, 2007 6:03 am PT
Review:  I have been a fan of NBA live ever since it came out with it's Live 96 for PS and I have been playing 
 ever since on different consoles I own and I hate to say this but this year, its really a disastrous 
 game! All those bugs and glitches! I thought it would at least be fixed this year but NO! Although 
 the game play isn't that fun with still, all the glitches but I got to admit the soundtracks are 
 pretty good! The graphics aren't that great either. Oh yeah!!! The ref's call are really really 
 bad and it's pissing me off! Maybe I was just expecting a little bit more out of this year's NBA 
 live. But it seems I am not the only one with such opinion.
  ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- 
 ---- ---- ---- --- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: r3351925
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 14, 2007 6:22 am PT
Review:  When u will first play this game u will c that its somehow difficult but after a couple of matches 
 it should be really fun to play. The Graphics in the game are very nice sometimes but when ur playing 
 they r some how normal, the game doesnt need any ram maybe a 384 mb ram would make it run really 
 smooth, an entry level gpu like nvidia 7300 would run it smoothly on 1024 resolution with high 
 details on, also it doesnt need much of a processor either. The sound in the game is really good, 
 the commentary in the game is really nice, almost like every little detail has its comment, the 
 stadium sounds are really nice plus the crowd too. The game play is somehow like the old nba 2006 
 but it has a some new stuff like freestyle superstar, superstar and the x-factor. Also the game 
 has much of modes u can play with, and a new mode called the dynasty mode, where u can really manage 
 a basketball team from choosing staff to choosing draft players.
  
  Finally this is a great game for people whole love basketball and sport games, its worth playing 
 :D. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rock4lifeR1
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 30, 2006 10:58 pm PT
Review:  definetely could have been a better gm but for a PC sports gm, it gets the job done, as long as 
 you turn the graphics all the way up. The gameplay makes up for the lag, and you dont even notice 
 it after a while. I believe the game does not beat last yrs franchise and should not be bought 
 by people who dont HAVE to buy the PC version. I recomend 06 for newbs to learn and enjoy... dont 
 waste your money on 07 if you dont need to. I hate this 100 word crap!!! a a a a a a a a a a a 
 aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sirpimps
Rating: 3.6
Date: Dec 23, 2006 5:35 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: Simply one of the worst NBA Lives every played. Gameplay has so many bugs, it makes you 
 throw your controller at your computer. Nothing new added at all.
  
  Graphics: The exact same as last year. Player facials arent that nice, but some environments look 
 well done.
  
  Sound: Sound is alright. Has a nice soundtrack as every EA Sports title does. Commentary is nice, 
 but gets really repetitive..
  
  Value: Has a good franchise mode, but try getting past 1 game because of the horride gameplay. 
 Also has playoff, but once again I dare you to get past 1 game.
  
  Overall: EA needs to revamp the whole NBA series. And they need to do it quick. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fanis_gr
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 23, 2006 4:31 am PT
Review:  I disagree with the rating of 5.9. Today, it is the best basketball game guys - of course better 
 than the previous edition.
  
  There are two new movements (junk and lay up) which add more depth to the game. Another benefit 
 is the new system of free throws. Also, in this edition, you can change anything in the game. For 
 instance, there are options in order to change the possibilities to steal the ball, to score a 
 three point shoot, etc. I think that a major disadvantage is that you cannot see exactly what is 
 happening near the basket if there are four or more players. Another is a small bug when you return 
 the ball after a back-court violation Graphics, players'movements and comentary are unique. Moreover, 
 you can play it in almost any pc.
  
  Except for my desktop (amd 3000+) I have it in my laptop which is a celeron 1600 and it is ok. 
 IN ANY CASE YOU SHOULD PLAY IT WITH A JOYPAD SUCH AS LOGITECH RUMBLEPAD 2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hoshun11
Rating: 2.6
Date: Dec 11, 2006 7:10 pm PT
Review:  I was excited to buy NBAlive07 hoping that there were some solutions to past problems in the game 
 but the problems got worse. There are too many glitches and controls are just not that user friendly. 
 One main glitch is the direct passing when you pass it to icon dunk the player will pass it to 
 the lay-up icon... it is too confusing. Another is rebounding, when you box-out the defending players 
 they will most likely to get offensive rebound, its better to jump far away from the basket towards 
 the hoop. The ball bounces too far away from the basket . The game became extremely arcade! all 
 flair! I was hoping that this addition will be different, but it haven't change far from 04. 04 
 is better than 05,06,07 and 01 and 02 from the psOne version are the best of all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rstoor
Rating: 2
Date: Nov 26, 2006 12:21 pm PT
Review:  It's just sad how bad this game is. It also sucks that people like me that only have a pc, only 
 have the chose to buy a NBA live game. The gameplay is so bad. WOW. You cannot even post up, so 
 what are the big guys supposed to do and i cant even dunk the ball in the slam dunk contest. Also 
 the Dynasty mode is a piece of **** The trading sucks so much, i bet if i traded my best player 
 for a bad player, the other team would still decline. Not worth the money. Thats all i got to say. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: renardww
Rating: 6.9
Date: Nov 22, 2006 7:42 pm PT
Review:  Very addictive game, i've been playing for about 2,3 weeks straigth, Slam Dunk is the best one 
 of the features involved, the soundtrack is good as usual EA soundtrack, can't see much more besides 
 that, create player is also good if you comparisson to other EA Sports games and can't forget too 
 say that commentary are awesome (really funny) , but the thing that makes NBA Live 07 lose a LOT 
 of points are the glitches, inside dunking, too far away 3 pointers, magnetic hands and the gameplay 
 not friendly for a keyboard user player. EA sure can do a lot better and i wish for the best on 
 Live 08. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aaffOgnjen
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 11, 2006 8:52 am PT
Review:  Great graphics and gameplay, but sound is not so good. It looks like NBA LIVE 2006. I play it every 
 day. Create player mode is poor. Dunasty mode is OK. I don't know why I can't play 20 games in dunasy. I 
 need to play 82. But this game is great and I realy dont know how some body can give it 5.9.
  Dunks are great. Sometimes, when I play this game I feel like I am on the court. Slam Dunk competition 
 is not soo good. How any player can dunk like that. In the game there are some great things, but some 
 are medicor.
  a A A A A A A A A A A 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Staryoshi87
Rating: 3.1
Date: Nov 9, 2006 8:44 am PT
Review:  At first glance, the overall appearance and functionality of the menus seemed to be an improvement, 
 as I had previously owned the 05 version of the game. I noticed a few new features right off the 
 bat, but nothing particularly groundbreaking. The Dynasty mode has been slightly streamlined since 
 05, but is still almost as annoying with its onslaugh of annoying messages and lacking signing/contract/cap 
 system. After the first year, almost every team ends up in debt, making trades impossible.
  The gameplay isn't remotely anywhere near the level you would expect a professional game to be 
 at. EA needs to be stopped, as their monopoly on PC NBA games has caused them to lay fresh brown 
 coils in our laps, and call them NBA Live games. This is the worst, worst, worst, gameplay in a 
 basketball game I've ever had to endure. WAY too many bugs, glitches, and hax by the CPU. Even 
 with stamina on, they don't ever sub their players, and their point guards will continually drive 
 down the lane, shoot a layup, and either make it or draw a foul. They will finish with an inordinate 
 amount of points in every game. It borders on being we-todd-ed. NBA Live 95 for SNES handles better. 
 The game is graphically incompetent, as well, as EA is trying to milk every cent out of their games 
 by keeping the spec requirements on their PC sports titles low. We deserve next gen, too. I really, 
 really wish I had not wasted the money on this game, because it has little redeeming value outside 
 of the updated rosters and decent soundtrack. If you absolutely MUST have a PC nba game, this is 
 your only option, but if you can opt for a console version, you'll be a little less unhappy with 
 your purchase. You've been warned.... buy at own risk... Accidentally put this review in the 06 
 version, lol.... meant for it to go here =P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EnzoLake
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 17, 2008 3:10 pm PT
Review:  Introduccin
  
  Normalmente cuando hablamos de juegos deportivos (sobretodo si provienen de EA Sports) decimos 
 que es lo de todos los aos con plantillas actualizadas y poco ms, pero que no suponen un gran 
 paso adelante. NBA Live 07 va mucho ms all y lo da hacia atrs, con bugs inexplicables que dificultan 
 mucho el tener una buena experiencia jugable.
  
  La edicin de este ao pintaba muy bien: inclusin del factor X (que explicaremos ms adelante) , 
 tiros personalizados, retransmisiones al estilo de la ESPN, Antoni Daimiel en los comentarios 
 bien, podemos decir que de todo esto lo nico cierto es lo primero.
  
  Para empezar, una de las promesas que ms atrajo a los jugadores de toda la vida era que este ao 
 s podamos apreciar las diferencias en el tiro entre Shawn Marion, Kobe Bryant o Allen Iverson. 
 Esto es mentira, nicamente est disponible en la versin de Xbox 360 y en la de PC lo mximo que 
 podemos encontrar es que unos cuantos jugadores poseen unas rutinas en el tiro libre parecidas 
 a las de la realidad.
  
  Lo de que las retransmisiones iban a ser al estilo ESPN tras el multimillonario contrato se ha 
 reducido a que en el modo Dinasta hay algunas cosas nuevas, como un mock draft, 
 la posibilidad de establecer las rotaciones o que se muestre en un mapa los viajes que realiza 
 tu equipo, nada ms.
  
  Y sobre lo de los comentarios, hay que decir que inexplicablemente la versin de PC distribuida 
 en Espaa est un perfecto ingls, tanto en los textos como en los comentarios. Digo inexplicable 
 porque en cambio en la versin americana s que tienes la posibilidad de ponerla en espaol.
  
  Vayamos con las cosas buenas: sigue siendo un juego entretenido. Cada vez se aleja ms de la 
 simulacin y se acerca al estilo arcade, le pese a quien le pese. Cosas como las habilidades de 
 superestrella o el Factor X contribuyen a hacer un juego mucho ms irreal pero tambin divertido.
 
  
  Lo dems singue invariado, de hecho la primera impresin que se tiene al ejecutar el juego es la 
 de que te has equivocado y has metido el CD del NBA Live 06. Ahora explicaremos con ms detalle 
 por qu la edicin de este ao nos ha defraudado tanto.
  
  Grficos
  
  Los grficos de NBA Live 07 son los mismos de NBA Live 06, que a su vez son los mismos del 2005. 
 Esto quiere decir que los jugadores siguen con el mismo estilo de dibujo animado, 
 que parece que van patinando, que atraviesan el tablero rival al machacar Lo nico bueno 
 de esto es que va muy fluido, aunque tal vez no tanto como cabra desear para quien tenga un ordenador 
 potente.
  
  Hemos encontrado algunas cosas nuevas, por ejemplo hay ms animaciones en las celebraciones de 
 las canastas, as como ms animaciones al utilizar las habilidades de superestrella. Eso s, si 
 dos jugadores tienen la misma habilidad, aunque uno mida 2.15 y el otro 1.80, realizarn los mismos 
 movimientos.
  
  Tambin hemos encontrado las ya comentadas rutinas previas al tiro libre. Eso significa que Jason 
 Kidd lanzar un beso a la canasta antes de tirar y poco ms. Lo que sigue perdido son los tiros 
 personalizados, cuando se haban prometido para todas las versiones current-gen. Es decir, que 
 Shawn Marion sigue con una tcnica de tiro inmejorable.
  
  Los jugadores siguen siendo reconocibles como siempre, aunque todava contamos con alguno que a 
 pesar de llevar un ao en la NBA sigue sin cara personalizada (vase Caldern) . Lo que no est 
 tan bien es que las camisetas siguen con una resolucin de 256x256, y son bastante borrosa (sobretodo 
 si uno se fija en los logos) , pero las texturas por defecto han mejorado bastante.
  
  Sonido
  
  El sonido tiene el nivel de todos los aos (bastante bueno) , pero esta vez con un 
 gran problema: los comentarios no estn traducidos. Eso puede ser bueno para algunos y malo para 
 otros. Los que dominen el ingls disfrutaran como nunca ya que estn muy bien realizados. Los comentaristas 
 (Steve Kerr y Marv Albert) nos dan datos especficos sobre los jugadores, como la universidad de 
 la que provienen, sus estadsticas en los ltimos aos y notas sobre su estilo de juego. Los que 
 no estn muy familiarizados con la lengua de Shakespeare entendern ms bien poco.
  
  La banda sonora es del estilo de la del ao pasado, mezclando temas sobretodo de hip-hop. Encontraremos 
 muchas canciones de artistas extranjeros, lo que representa la cada vez ms evidente globalizacin 
 del baloncesto.
  
  Por lo dems, los efectos de sonido son los de todos los aos, desde las zapatillas al caer sobre 
 el parquet hasta el ruido de los aros al ser machacados sin piedad. Desde luego, el sonido es posiblemente 
 el mejor apartado del juego.
  
  Jugabilidad
  
  La caracterstica ms interesante introducida este ao es el Factor X. Esto bsicamente consiste 
 en que al iniciar un partido se nos avisar de que uno de nuestros jugadores del montn contar 
 con una habilidad de estrella durante un periodo de tiempo si est lo suficientemente presente 
 durante el partido.
  
  Para que nos hagamos una idea, jugamos un partido con los Raptors y al iniciar nos avisa de que 
 Bargnani tiene la posibilidad de contar con la habilidad de tirador de tres. Tiramos unos cuantos 
 triples con l y en seguida se desbloquear esa habilidad. Es una buena idea, aunque los problemas 
 pueden venir si se abusa de ella ya que anotar con estos jugadores sera demasiado fcil.
  
  Hay que decir tambin que este ao contamos con superestrellas y estrellas. La nica diferencia 
 est en que los primeros cuentan con un repertorio de movimientos ms amplio.
  
  La dificultad parece haberse incrementado algo este ao. Por ejemplo, es ms difcil anotar tiros 
 de larga distancia, aunque esto siempre es modificable con los sliders. La razn 
 principal de por qu se nos hace algo ms difcil es la que detallaremos a continuacin: los bugs.
 
  
  Para empezar, hay que decir que nos podemos ir olvidando de las sustituciones automticas por parte 
 de los dos bandos. La CPU ya no hace cambios en todo el partido a no ser que uno de sus jugadores 
 acabe expulsado. Adems, parece que este ao los jugadores estn dopados ya que no cansan, por 
 lo que estars desde el principio hasta el final del partido enfrentndote al quinteto inicial 
 del otro equipo. En el caso de tu equipo, mejor que no actives las sustituciones automticas, ya 
 que igual te saca a tu estrella en el primer cuarto y te la devuelve en los minutos de la basura.
 
  
  El otro bug bastante importante que hemos encontrado es del que los bases rivales dominan el juego. 
 Da lo mismo que juegues contra el equipo de Iverson que contra el de Brevin Knight, ste se tirar 
 sus 25-30 tiros por partido y te acabar metiendo 50 puntos para ser elegido MVP del partido. Afortunadamente, 
 algunos fans ya estn desarrollando parches que lo solucionan.
  
  Los modos de juego son los de siempre: partido rpido, temporada, play-offs, prctica, All-Star 
 Weekend y Dinasta. El modo principal es este ltimo y es que aporta algunos de los cambios ms 
 significativos.
  
  Por ejemplo, durante toda la temporada tenemos un mock draft que se va actualizando 
 segn las posiciones actuales y las necesidades de cada equipo de cara al Draft del ao siguiente. 
 Tambin hay opciones nuevos, como la de poder repartir previamente el tiempo de juego y las titularidades. 
 Este ao tambin tendremos ms control del staff y ser una parte vital dentro de nuestro equipo, 
 as como la qumica entre los jugadores.
  
  Diversin
  
  NBA Live siempre es un juego bastante entretenido, especialmente en los ltimos aos, ya que la 
 franquicia se est yendo hacia un estilo ms arcade. Es perfecto por lo tanto para jugar con amigos, 
 pero no tanto con la mquina ya que los numerosos bugs pueden hacer la experiencia jugable un tanto 
 frustrante.
  
  Hay bastantes modos de juegos, entre los que destacan los concursos de mates y triples si uno quiere 
 jugar con ms gente. El nico problema del modo Dinasta es que solo se pueden jugar 82 partidos, 
 y habr gente a la que le parezca demasiado.
  
  Conclusin
  
  De no ser por los bugs, NBA Live 07 habra sido un juego bastante decente y digno de su compra. 
 Sin embargo, actualmente no podemos recomendar su adquisicin ya que es un juego incompleto a falta 
 del parche oficial. Lo bueno de la versin de PC es que es posible arreglarlos, pero en las consoleras 
 esto es imposible.
  
  A favor y en contra
  
  A favor:
  - El factor X
  - El modo Dinasta
  - El apartado sonoro en general
  
  En contra:
  - Los numerosos bugs 
 y fallos tcnicos
  - Que inexplicablemente no est traducido
  - Que no llegue el salto grfico 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lolgubbe
Rating: 4.7
Date: Nov 7, 2006 8:42 am PT
Review:  The Good: the graphics is cool and the controls are quite good (when u have a joystick or some 
 kinda controller to ur pc) . the sound is cool and if u're a nba fan then u probably like but at 
 the same time not really a lot as u've liked for example nba live 06 or 05 or previous games in 
 the series. but it's quite good for nba fans and that is a quite good thing right?
  
  The Bad: man the controls (if u using a keyboard and mouse) then it's real bad and boring. the 
 frame rate doesn't stay steady 100%. and there can be some other technical problems. and it's not 
 so good.
  
  Overall: sport games has never been something good on pc (unless u have some kinda controller to 
 ur pc) otherwise it have been always bad and nothing real fun, well i know that there is a lot 
 of peoples that says that sport games on pc is a ton of fun and says even that sport games on pc 
 is better than on consoles (which is not in my and other opinion of course) . but this game is a 
 mediocore game or really a poor game in my opinion (because im not even a huge sport fan) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zorza
Rating: 1.9
Date: Jan 30, 2007 5:28 am PT
Review:  It's totally screwed up:
  The player movement is so slow you can fall asleep while playing. Computer-controlled teams are 
 cheating all the time.
  They're blocking shots they weren't even able to get near to. Cross-over move is useless if you 
 aren't computer.
  And don't even think of playing it with the keyboard.
  The list goes on...
  
  It's the worst game I've ever played.
  It's even worse than NBA Live 
 06 (I thought that's not possible) .
  And I'm the person telling you that! Me, the biggest fan of NBA Live series since NBA Live '96 
 (Roster 23 forever!)
  
  I'm severely disappointed.
  
  p. s. Sorry for my English. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aanjan
Rating: 4.5
Date: Oct 26, 2006 4:28 am PT
Review:  I bought NBA 07 with so much expectations but i was in for a huge let down. The graphics is very 
 poor especially in the all stars game. The face is absolutely atrocious in the slam dunk competition. 
 The sound is average with an average commentary. The game play is average too. Create modes are 
 improved very little and the dynasty mode is poor too. The length cannot be changed from 82 - 82 
 to 20 - 20. The only good thing is the updated roster. If you are gonna buy this game , please 
 dont. Stick with NBA 06. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ice0732
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 25, 2006 6:30 am PT
Review:  Over ten years of making NBA Live's and those they made 10 years ago seemed much much better. They 
 focused too much on graphics, which actually didn't improve so much, and totally forgot about how 
 important gameplay is. Players wait one entire year hoping for a better NBA Live and end up totally 
 disappointed.
  
  It seems that every year, one function disappears only to be replayed by a totally useless one. 
 I mean, what's the purpose of those videos and highlights? They only took up valuable harddrive 
 space when they should have used that space for a better gameplay engine?
  
  If you like this game, I guess you haven't played the earlier versions. My suggestion to EA Sports, 
 quit making NBA Live if you can't make a better one next year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: funnyCigarette
Rating: 3.8
Date: Oct 17, 2006 1:59 am PT
Review:  Alright... remember playing NBA Live 98 on the Playstation? Was fun, wasn't it? This series was 
 evolving ever since, exept Live 2003, which was way too arcadish. When I started playing Live 2006 
 I was amazed. All the good things from the past including dropstep and backdown, all the game modes, 
 whole new graphics and finally the most innovative - superstar moves. Really great. And then, there 
 was the Xbox 360. The released NBA Live 06 with sweating players and court reflections and abandoning 
 the s-star moves - are you EA people really serious?? And what's the idea of showing game trailers 
 with D-Wade's face chewing a gum and making those I'm mr. boombastic, semi-fantastic face expressions 
 and then selling the final product with the same graphics as NBA Live 06? No dropstep, no backdown, 
 not too much control over the crossover moves, no pc-subs, point guard domination (I can only laugh 
 when the pg is driving to the hoop for an easy lay-up against Shaq and Haslem/Mourning in front 
 of him) and all the bugs from '06 - turnovers when deflecting the ball, monster jumps when blocking 
 shots with a s-star move, no fixed sliders (cut some of the sliders instead) .... no no no, I'm 
 getting sick of writing this... HOW CAN YOU SELL SOMETHING LIKE THAT TO PEOPLE? This game is one 
 bad joke. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: misatoxd
Rating: 4.8
Date: Oct 15, 2006 11:58 pm PT
Review:  Wow... I didn't actually think that this could happen to EA... specially to this one... I mean, the 
 game graphics is good (considering the fact that the details are like the previous one... and that 
 was ok... I also noticed that the motion capture is better and there are new animations during gameplay... you 
 could really see the signature jumpshots that EA's been bragging about... new dunks... the courts 
 and players are updated... I didn't actually knew that Kobe changed his jersey number from 8 to 
 24 until I played this... he he... it also has new features such as the x-factor and superstar/star 
 abilities) but it stops there... for instance, player substitutions don't happen (unless the player 
 gets injured or is in foul trouble) even if you raise the substitution option to 100... you'll be 
 playing the starting five for the whole game... even if their stamina drops to zero... you'll have 
 to manually change your players during gameplay (and if you're crazy enough, change the players 
 of your opponent.. he he) you also have no choice but to play the whole 80+ games of the season 
 when in dynasty mode... which kinda sucks when you don't have the time to do so... there are no changes 
 in the create player option... fewer camera options... and the commentary sometimes get dragging 
 (whatever happened to Kenny Smith?) and to think that they've spent a whole year for this... wow... it 
 really blows... I hope that EA is planning to release a patch/fix as soon as possible for this one 
 if they want to save it from this kind of embarassment... so until then... I suggest you guys stick 
 with 06 or wait until next year for 08 rather than shell out money for this... it's not worth it... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sergiod07
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 8, 2006 8:23 am PT
Review:  I hoped that we'll finally play a realistic basketball, but i guess we'll have to wait a lot longer 
 because this is the worst nba i ever played!!! It's so unrealistic, sometimes it looks like you 
 dont have a defence, ever player can score whatever they want, they hit imposible fade-aways, 3 
 point shooting of computer is almost perfect, they can dunk over you whenever they want and not 
 to mention the superstar players, they are like aliens. And the thing that drives me crazy is that 
 now you cant push with your center under the hoop, it looks like EA erased that command. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: socceraccess
Rating: 5.1
Date: Oct 3, 2006 12:10 pm PT
Review:  I&acute; m a great fan of NBA Live series and I&acute; m really dissapointed with NBA Live 07. Let&acute; s 
 start saying that this game is almost unplayable in the way it has been released. Graphic Problems? 
 No, graphics are not too different from NBA Live 06. I was able to play with highest details, 1024 
 x 768 ( Geforce FX 5200) without problems. So then controls are the problem? No. They have improved 
 passing options, shooting, adding new options to freestyle mode. The player physics and movements 
 on the court are great.
  
  So where&acute; s the problem? Well it seems that the CPU has become amazingly dumb. Why?
  
 
  (1) There is a big, horrible, major bug that keeps the CPU from making substitutions except when 
 its players are in foul trouble! WHAT?! Yes! :mad: The CPU will never sub for a starter! (unless 
 they get into foul trouble) The CPU starters play all game until exhaused - and keep playing and 
 playing and playing. The CPU never uses any bench players making playing against the CPU very unrealistic.
 
  
  (2) The CPU's point guard takes most of the shots ( around 90%) and drive to the basket for easy 
 layups way too often! In my first match experience I&acute; ve faced San Antonio and I guess that 
 probably, as in real life, Tony Parker was decided to make everything possible to loose the game 
 taking every shot. But then I&acute; ve realized that this was another major bug since all CPU's 
 point guard behaved in the same way.
  
  There are other problems (there are no option to choose a 29 game season in dynasty mode so you 
 have to play 82 matches!) but those two I&acute; ve found are major ones and they make the game 
 almost unplayable. This could be a great game only if those bugs are fixed.
  
  http://www. gamingaccess. com/index. php? news_id=5730&amp; lan 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mark23332
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 30, 2006 9:42 pm PT
Review:  This game is actually better overrall in my opinion than live 06 but only because the upgrade/downgrade 
 ratio leans more towards upgrade. The game's upgrades are so minimal though that it's unbelievable 
 that it took a whole year to make. The graphics are worse than 06, which i didn't think was possible. 
 The game is definitely an upgrade, though, it's more like an expansion like for tom clancy games. 
 It in no way should be considered a whole new game on its own. They are, however, great improvements 
 such as: slowed gameplay, x factor, superstar change in-game, a few signature shots, different 
 free throw shooting, offense can actually drive by a defender without them quickly getting in front 
 of the ball handler a split second later, more dunks, layups, etc., more balanced array of shots 
 (in-paint, mid-range and 3-point) instead of going in for a lay up or dunk every single time down 
 court, lob passes, the cpu is better and more difficult, and dynasty has improved. That may seem 
 like a bunch of big upgrades, but there are a bunch of big downgrades as well such as: way too 
 many dunks (especially with a new isolated dunk button) , there are only a minimal amount of dunks 
 in a real game in the NBA, graphics are unbelievable worse which is ridiculous for an upgraded 
 game , superstar moves are too effective (particularly highflyer, power, and off balance shots) , 
 non-existent post game, ball possesion camera changes way too fast (if you're pressing up while 
 stealing the ball, the camera changes so fast that when you get the ball you'll be still be pressing 
 up and end up doing a 180 and completely ruins the fast break and maybe in some occasions get you 
 a back-court call) , scores are still way too high (12 min. quarter games should end with a max 
 of about 110 points scored by a team but instead its more like 130+) , and there are a couple of 
 glitchy game defects that are a little irritating (i'm not sure about anyone else but with my controller 
 i have to press all four R and L buttons to switch superstar styles, which is kind of a hassle 
 because i need 4 fingers at one time meaning i cant be driving and quickly change styles on the 
 drive, i have to be isolated behind the 3-point line to press 4 buttons at the same time with 4 
 different fingers 5 times in a row to pick exactly which style i want and there is no way for me 
 to reconfigure the controls) , same with the pro hop offensive move, instead of pressing one button 
 you have to hold the right joystick up for like 2 seconds which is also a hassle because 2 seconds 
 can make or break a play, and finally a small glitch, if you try to take a charge at about half 
 court the ball handler will freeze and kinda spaz out and sometimes making him get a cheap backcourt 
 call. oh, and almost forgot, the create-a-player is a joke, i don't remember creating a player 
 in 06 so i don't know if it got better or worse, but 07's seems like it wouldn't be good enough 
 for live 2001. WHY DON'T BASKETBALL GAMES COPY TIGER WOODS' PGA TOUR'S ALMOST PERFECT CREATE-A-PLAYER 
 FEATURE? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: teron678
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 30, 2006 8:46 pm PT
Review:  Playing this game i see no difference from the nba live 06. everything about it is the same. it 
 still go it's crappy graphics and features. in my opinion ea sports just renamed nba live 06 to 
 07 and released it for sale. i advise those with nba live 06 to stay with it. buying this game 
 is like buying nba live 06 all over again. i could see it now nba live 08, 09 ... will be the same 
 crap. ea sports why don't you expedite enhancing your games and stop releasing the same **** year 
 after  kkkk kkk kkk kk kkkk kk 
 kkkkkkk kk!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BBallFreak41
Rating: 5.6
Date: Sep 30, 2006 10:13 am PT
Review:  As a PC sports gaming fan, something that is increasingly difficult to be thanks to a lack of competition 
 for the venue, I was anxiously awaiting this particular title. I've been a fan of the Live series 
 for years.
  
  Unfortunately, I cannot give this game a positive review. The gameplay is sharp and fun, the graphics 
 are improved, even the commentary is great, but the quality control over at EA Sports has slipped 
 up to an extreme degree. For a basketball simulation game to screw up this badly is inexcusable.
 
  
  What am I referring to? The computer simply does not substitute, not for your team nor for their 
 team. If you don't make the substitutions, barring injury or foul trouble, no one will. The computer 
 will let all the starters play, for both squads, until the game is finished. Their stamina bars 
 will literally be empty, the players will be walking up the courts, and the PC will just let them 
 go. Is this a simulation or rip off of NBA Jam? Oh sure, the infrastructure is in place. Upon starting 
 a dynasty, you can set the rotation for the PC to follow, conceivably allowing the PC to manage 
 an 8 man rotation for the first time in the history of the series. Unfortunately, it won't implement 
 it during the course of the game. For a game that is supposed to be based on realism, how realistic 
 is it to have a basketball team never turn to it's bench? How did the people over at EA Sports 
 allow this game to be released in such poor condition? Someone has some explaining to do. If you 
 haven't wasted your money on this travesty, don't bother, at least not until they wise up and start 
 treating those of us with a PC with a modicum of respect. This game is a slap in the face, nothing 
 more... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmb34
Rating: 6.3
Date: Sep 29, 2006 10:08 pm PT
Review:  Give me a break, this game is not worthy of my 7900 gtx. It is ok but it feels as if I am playing 
 an xbox game with its 2001 graphics. Rumors have it though the pc version will get a make over 
 next year, asuming they were holding out for directx 10 and vista to come out. Being a pc gamer 
 you dont have much choice but to buy this game if you want a quick game of b-ball, I didnt have 
 a b-ball game so decided to pick this one up. I say wait till it hits the bargin bin if you can. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: prz3maas
Rating: 5.6
Date: Sep 29, 2006 3:00 pm PT
Review:  Why it's so familiar to the '06 ver.? Almost none of the gameplay crazy issues were repaired. The 
 AI's fastbreaks after rebounds are very hard to stop. Almost every action ends up in my basket. 
 I can't stand it. It breaks the mood, kills your amusement. The realism is hopeless. And players' 
 moves are looking odd and sticky. I hoped for some changes. There are some like the X-factor mode. 
 But what it's for? The superstar triggers are... f***ed up! When I play against a scorer or highflyer 
 I can't stop them! It's ridiculous. They said that it would be fixed or repaired... yeah sure. I'm 
 really disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: safinuk
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 28, 2006 7:52 am PT
Review:  I have not played any other version that the PC version, but I am certain that the console versions 
 are much better than the PC version. Historically, EA games suffer from stability issues, poor 
 graphics, and less options just to name a few choices. I have never had good luck with an EA sports 
 game for the PC and I wish they would make a better effort to make the game more enjoyable for 
 the computer.
  
  As for this version, I had stability problems, graphics looked jagged and choppy (even on a decent 
 system) , and everything just isn't up to the level that I would expect from an EA game. Better 
 Luck next year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hape09
Rating: 2.8
Date: Sep 27, 2006 9:29 pm PT
Review:  Below everything i expected. NBA live 06 was much much better. The game play in this version just 
 feels very awkward. The graphics are just appaling, It is 2006 and EA is big company I think, wait 
 i KNOW, they can do a LOT better if they wanted to. I use to enjoy the commanteriesin 06, but even 
 that has gotten worse. This is a total waste of money. I also got NHL 07 and even though I'm not 
 into hockey that was much more entertaining. Funny how they got problems in NBA live 07 that are 
 fixed in NHL 07 and vice versa... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 76ersBOY
Rating: 4.5
Date: Dec 1, 2006 1:23 pm PT
Review:  Firstly, EA is $%&amp; lucky that there isnt a 2k version of NBA live available for PC, because 
 they would be out of business. There is a reason the game can only keep the biggest of fans entertained 
 for maybe a quarter. Dynasty mode is worse than ever. The ability to use the Mock Draft offers 
 nothing, I have more fun reading real rookie reports, which feature stats, rankings, pictures, 
 bio's, and possibly videos; NOT JUST NAMES IN A USELESS LIST. The addition of the Pick Grade and 
 the fact that only 3 players chosen by the PC are over an F is god aweful. Scouting is useless 
 in that it gives a letter grade for stats, ironicly the game givs 3 little notes ton their 3 non 
 F picks, scouted or not. Players are worse depending on their grade . so just take who the game 
 says. Some rookies names are announced, but only in game, others are never mentioned. There are 
 horific inconsistancies in players ratings, for example numerous oplayers have abysmal FG ratings 
 but acceptable 3pt ratings, automatically. Leandro Barbosa has only a 56 in FG, and Iguadala a 
 61. Morale just means that your team makes stupid mistakes and cannot accomplish the simplest of 
 taks when its necessary. superstars are barely capable of connecting (excluding scorers) . I desperatly 
 want back he cut-scenes and magazines from older versions. Chemistry is unpredictable, random and 
 irritating. Many times players will be hated for no reason, or just decide to hate everyone else. 
 All in all if EA thought thet basketball was worth an iota of the effort given to MAdden the game 
 would be much better. Features that might help and are definately possible
  - Ability to hire head coaches (since when does every team keep the same exact coaching system 25 
 years running, its ridiculous)
  - Announce all rookie names (available in NHL 06)
  - Relocation and jersey editing (available in Madden and NBA Live 2000)
  - Newspapers (Madden 07)
 
  - During Draft Trades (Still Madden 07)
  - Ability to trade for a mid-level exception (how hard could this be)
  - Ability to put out a 
 rumor (similar to trade block)
  - ANY consistancy between rumors and what happens (if not possible cut the ^&amp;*%@ rumors)
  
 - CPU transactions {Signing different players when a big contract expires - why can they resing 
 anyone they want after the free agency, we cant} (again, it happens in Madden)
  - Real reasons for unwillingness to resing (when I can sign A-Mo for 9.8 mil but cant sign a 450k 
 contract because it exceedes salary cap there is a problem)
  -CPU trades (why is it that maybe 3 CPU trades hapen per year)
  - Short term contracts and veteran 
 minimum (not very hard, they only say how long the non existant vet min would be for)
  - NO MORE RATING INCONSISTANCIES (players should NEVER be better at 3pt that FG)
  - Gameplay that 
 doesnt break my hands (MAdden is fair, and I dont pound my hands through my desk out of frustration 
 every 2 minutes)
  - Switch to the 2006 superstar repley (Last year they were slow and had agreat views, only occasional 
 not seeing rim; this year we never see the shot go down, watch everything facing the player from 
 birds eye and it goes in fastforward overly zoomed in)
  
  All in all this game bores the living $%^$&amp; out of my I could desing a must better game if 
 I had EA's resources and a year to work on it. If there were any other PC option I'd take it. A 
 3 year old knows this game sucks. My question, what makes Madden soo much more important than NBA 
 Live in that one is fun and the other is 40 dollar firewood.
  
  Oy and fix the replays so that it doesnt take 20 minutes to rotate without getting a birds eye 
 view) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thgrave2005
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 26, 2006 5:22 am PT
Review:  Yes finally no sliding in the game, and also whenever you block a shot and it goes out of bounds 
 it is no longer called a turnover. The game graphics are alot better therefore its easier to look 
 at, havent seen any signature jump shots yet but i didnt really play that much. One thing bothers 
 me, point guards dominate the game they can score well over 30 points while their teammates stay 
 at 15 or so. The music is nice, player ratings are harsh but still nice. The movement is also very 
 smooth. Its kind of hard to dunk because the controls have been changed but once you get used to 
 it its easy to dominate the game. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
