-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: NBA Live 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sports/nbalive2005/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Easy to pick up and play.
 Dunk mode allows hundreds of different dunks.
 Improved dynasty mode.
 Marv Albert and Mike Fratello on play by play.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Dunk mode can be frustrating.
 Core gameplay feels too much like last year's game.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov  8, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 7.9, 10 Review (s)
User Score: 8.4, 627 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Sports
Developer: EA Canada
Genre: Basketball Sim
Date:     Oct 26, 2004
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
NBA Live 2005 is a very good basketball game, but it doesn't advance the franchise as much as we'd 
 hoped it would. "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        NBA Live 
 2005 Review for PC - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, 
 iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) { var imgElem =              The Good            Easy to pick up and play  
 &nbsp;      Dunk mode allows hundreds of different dunks  &nbsp;      Improved dynasty mode  &nbsp; 
      Marv Albert and Mike Fratello on play by play.                The Bad            Dunk mode 
 can be frustrating  &nbsp;      Core gameplay feels too much like last year's game.            
           After The Fact:  Reviews Revisited        What's this?               Update:  Servers 
 Offline    Posted: Nov 5, 2008 4:31 pm PT      Toward the end of 2006, the online service for this 
 game was shut down by EA. &nbsp;               

  With the NBA season just under way, Electronic Arts has shipped the PC version of its NBA Live 
 2005. Live 2005 offers a number of new features, such as a full implementation of All-Star Weekend, 
 complete with the slam-dunk contest and three-point shoot-out. There's also been a revamp of the 
 franchise mode and some tweaks made to the basic gameplay. But, as with an NBA team, a game is 
 not just the sum of its parts. NBA Live 2005 plays a solid game of basketball, but even the flashy 
 new features can't hide the fact that it isn't a huge step up from last year's edition.  

  The biggest addition in NBA Live 2005 is its inclusion of the All-Star Weekend. You'll be able 
 to play through four events from the real-life NBA All-Star Weekend, including the rookies versus 
 sophomores game, the actual All-Star Game, the three-point shoot-out, and the slam-dunk contest. 
 The three-point contest allows you to pick up to eight NBA sharpshooters to compete against one 
 another. Each player must take up to 25 three-point shots within 60 seconds to earn points, with 
 five specially colored balls counting for two points instead of one. In practice, this mode really 
 isn't that exciting, as it boils down to pressing the same two buttons over and over again.  

 
          The slam-dunk contest is the centerpiece of All-Star Weekend.     

  The dunk competition is more interesting. In this mode, there are four buttons that each corresponds 
 to a different type of takeoff, such as one-footed takeoffs or 360-spin takeoffs. After you move 
 toward the basket and jump, you can press one of these same buttons again in midair to execute 
 one of a host of different tricks, such as a double clutch, a tomahawk, and so on. During each 
 of these two phases, you can press one or two other buttons to slightly modify the move your player 
 is executing. Since the moves are contextual depending on your position relative to the basket, 
 there are dozens or even hundreds of possible dunks. Combine these moves with the different optional 
 tosses you can execute before your takeoff, and there are even more possible permutations. Not 
 all the dunks are entirely realistic, so it's theoretically possible to have your player kick the 
 ball off the shot clock, do a running cartwheel, catch the ball in the midst of a 360 spin, switch 
 hands between his legs, and then throw the ball down. It's physically impossible even for Tracy 
 McGrady to do such a thing in real life, but you can do it in NBA Live 2005's dunk mode. And if 
 you expect to get a high score from the panel of five NBA legends (George "Iceman" Gervin and Clyde 
 "The Glide" Drexler among them) who judge the dunk contest, your dunks better be outrageous enough 
 to straddle the line between fantasy and reality.  

  So is it any fun? That all depends on your idea of fun. Getting the timing down to perform the 
 more complicated dunks is quite difficult. Even executing a "simple" toss off the backboard and 
 catching it for a standard dunk ( la Tracy McGrady in the 2002 All-Star Game) requires a 
 lot of practice. Those who do have the tenacity to learn complicated dunks will find that performing 
 them is pretty satisfying, and thankfully a practice mode is included. But in the end, a lot of 
 folks will probably mess around with the dunk mode a little bit, get frustrated, and forget about 
 the mode entirely.  

  Live 2005 also offers a completely revamped dynasty mode. The schedule of games and important events 
 (such as the draft and the All-Star Weekend) is now displayed on a color-coded calendar interface. 
 As you simulate a season, you can examine full box scores from the previous day's games. The scores 
 of your own team's games are shown quarter by quarter as they're played, and you're allowed to 
 jump in and intervene at any point. This is useful if you see the game slipping away from your 
 team in an important divisional matchup, as you can simply jump into the game in progress and play 
 out the rest of it yourself to ensure victory. You're updated on important events, such as injuries, 
 major player transactions, and other news, via a PDA, which will beep whenever you have a new message. 

          The dynasty mode has received a complete overhaul.     

  As general manager, you'll also need to manage your team's staff of scouts throughout the year. 
 Much like in NCAA Football 2005's recruiting mode, you can scout out rookie prospects for the upcoming 
 draft. The initial batch of players can be sorted by region or by their rough quality ratings. 
 By spending dynasty points to scout, you'll be able to get more-accurate stats on each of the players, 
 giving you the information you need for the draft. The best part is that a week before the draft, 
 you can invite players to come in for workouts with your team, and you can actually play as them 
 in one-on-one games against your own players. This hands-on test-drive is a great way to get a 
 feel for your rookie prospects.  

  There are some annoying issues with the dynasty mode, however. The biggest of these is the inability 
 to set an overarching team strategy for games. While managing the new-look Lakers, for example, 
 we were looking for a way to have the team run at an up-tempo pace, to take advantage of their 
 new athleticism and minimize their weakness in the low post with Shaquille O'Neal gone. Unfortunately, 
 there seem to be no such options for team strategy, which is a major omission. Another irritant 
 is that the PDA buzzer goes off almost constantly as you're simulating your way through the season. 
 You'll feel compelled to stop simulating to check your e-mail, only to find that 90 percent of 
 the time it's an unimportant message. But if you don't check your mail every time, you'll invariably 
 miss something important, such as a note from your medical staff that your star player has suffered 
 serious injury.     "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        NBA 
 Live 2005 Review for PC - Page 2 - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 
 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return 
 true; } if (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  
 var newUri = cTrkPrefix + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 
 (parentId, iTrkId, iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem 
 =  if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  
 if (! parentElem) { return false; } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { 
 return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; 
 imgElem. height = '1';  } return true; }   ON   The Insider :  Megan 
 Foxs Trip Across the Border    //               GAMES:     GameSpot     GameFAQs     MUSIC: 
     Last. fm     MP3. com     MOVIES:     Metacritic     Movietome     TV:     TV. com            
         GameSpot. com                Search                               BioShock 2 Exclusive First 
 Look:  We head back to Rapture with...               Spore Galactic Adventures Q&amp; A:  Lead Producer 
 Kip...               Starcraft II: Wings of Liberty Battle Report:  Its Zerg...          
      Mafia II Impressions:  The sequel to the cult-classic 2002...                    home     
    PC      Xbox 360      Wii      PS3      PS2      PSP      DS        community      forums   
    videos      cheats      features      downloads      sports      tech      news            Reviews 
     Previews     Cheats     Answers     New Releases     Top Games     All PC Games     Tech Center 
          Theme:   Light    Dark            Sign In    Create your account    Help    Forgot Password? 
                                       Add Game       Tag       Print       Email       Facebook 
       Digg                              NBA Live 2005 Review          

 NBA Live 2005 is a very good basketball game, but it doesn't advance the franchise as much as we'd 
 hoped it would.               The Good            Easy to pick up and play  &nbsp;      Dunk mode 
 allows hundreds of different dunks  &nbsp;      Improved dynasty mode  &nbsp;      Marv Albert 
 and Mike Fratello on play by play.                The Bad            Dunk mode can be frustrating 
  &nbsp;      Core gameplay feels too much like last year's game.                      After The 
 Fact:  Reviews Revisited        What's this?               Update:  Servers Offline    Posted: 
 Nov 5, 2008 4:31 pm PT      Toward the end of 2006, the online service for this game was shut down 
 by EA. &nbsp;               

  Aside from the face-lift to the dynasty mode, there have been some tweaks made to the actual gameplay. 
 The most notable of these is the "freestyle air" feature, which allows you to double-tap the dunk 
 button in midair to change your shot. If you go up for a dunk and see a defender coming over to 
 challenge, you can double-tap and change your shot to avoid getting blocked. You're also given 
 new choices for hitting the offensive glass. Now, instead of the computer deciding when your player 
 tries for a tip dunk, tip-in, or rebound, you can manually try for any of these three options by 
 pressing a different button. As in real life, tip dunks are rare but satisfying, and tip-ins can 
 sometimes be executed in situations where grabbing the rebound outright would be impossible.  

 
          Incremental updates have been made to the basic gameplay.     

  The developer has also made adjustments in other areas. New entry-pass animations have been added, 
 so you'll see guards lobbing balls into the low block or sometimes using a bounce pass to get the 
 ball past a defender. You'll also see new scoop layup and dunk animations around the basket, allowing 
 the more athletic players to fluidly score even when they're pinned behind the backboard or standing 
 directly underneath the basket. The "pro hop" function has been weakened as well, perhaps too much 
 so. Last year, executing the pro hop would push defenders back, often leading to a free dunk. This 
 time around, using the pro hop on a defender will result in an offensive foul or the ball handler 
 losing control of the ball. In fact, it seems as if it's almost impossible to safely execute a 
 jump stop in traffic at all, making it seem all but useless in NBA Live 2005. Finally, freestyle 
 dribbling (using the right analog stick) is now effective only when playing as a guard or a small 
 forward. If you try to execute fancy moves with a clumsy power forward or center, you can expect 
 to lose the ball immediately. Sorry, Dallas Mavericks fans, no more killer crossovers with 7-foot-6-inch 
 Shawn Bradley.  

  Unfortunately, many of the annoying flaws in previous Live games pop up in Live 2005. Players still 
 have a strange "force field" around them, which makes it easier to stay in front of players but 
 can result in some cheap out-of-bounds calls as you "push" the ball handler toward the sideline 
 or baseline. Players still stop to catch passes instead of continuing to run, so don't expect many 
 real fast breaks off outlet passes or steals. This is doubly troublesome, because defenders seem 
 to recover much too quickly when they're beaten, especially at higher difficulty levels. And when 
 you do manage to get out on a fast break with teammates on your flanks, you'll find that they never 
 finish running toward the basket as they should. Instead, they always pull up at the wing right 
 around the three-point line, which is the opposite of fundamentally sound basketball.  

  As far as control is concerned, you're going to need an eight-button controller with dual analog 
 sticks to play NBA Live 2005 properly. The freestyle control mode is much more intuitive when using 
 dual analog sticks, as opposed to the keyboard. Additionally, the slam-dunk mode is difficult enough 
 with the controller. Trying to execute complicated dunks with just the keyboard is just about impossible. 

  Graphically, NBA Live 2005 isn't a whole lot different from last year's game. It looks very good, 
 with extremely detailed player models and a variety of dribbling and shooting animations. Unlike 
 some of the console versions of the game, however, you don't see a steep drop-off in graphical 
 quality between the All-Star Weekend modes and the regular five-on-five game. The game looks sharp 
 in all modes, although the crowd can sometimes look very flat when the camera zooms in on players 
 during replays.  

  Like last year's edition, NBA Live 2005 features excellent sound. You'll hear crowds cheer and 
 jeer the action on the court, along with the sounds of sneakers squeaking and the ball bouncing 
 on the floor. Rim-rocking dunks sound appropriately powerful, while soft jump shots produce a subdued 
 swish. The celebrated duo of Marv Albert and Mike Fratello make a return in NBA Live 2005, giving 
 the game great play-by-play and color commentary. New to the broadcast team are TNT's Ernie Johnson 
 and Kenny "The Jet" Smith, who handle the announcing during the All-Star Weekend for the dunk contest 
 and the three-point shoot-out. Like Albert and Fratello, they are immediately familiar and likable 
 to most NBA fans, and their more playful and familiar style provides a nice change of pace. There's 
 also a collection of hip-hop tunes from EA Trax, which isn't quite as good as last year's but still 
 fits the basketball theme well.  

          The nicely designed online lobby lets you both browse available games and easily see the 
 disconnect rates of various opponents.     

  NBA Live 2005 ships with robust online functionality. You can expect the usual array of features, 
 like ranked ladders, lobbies, news, and chat, as well as a wealth of statistics for both you and 
 your opponents. You can participate in tournaments, or you can just play single matches against 
 players and wager tokens that can be used to unlock items within the game. NBA Live 2005 is fairly 
 stable online, for the most part. Depending on the latency, you'll need to adjust your shot timing 
 to compensate for lag. But if the connection is clean, this isn't a tough adjustment to make.  
 

  For better or worse, the dunk contest is the centerpiece of NBA Live 2005's new features, and it's 
 certainly much better implemented here than in the similar mode in ESPN College Hoops 2K4. But 
 it's tough for us to say that the dunk mode really adds a lot of value to the franchise, and it's 
 also likely to prove too difficult for most casual players to fully grasp anyway. Beyond the new 
 implementation of the All-Star Weekend, longtime players of the Live series will enjoy the revamped 
 franchise mode, as well as the incremental tweaks to the basic gameplay, although both aspects 
 of the game still have noticeable flaws. All things considered, NBA Live 2005 is a very good basketball 
 game, but it doesn't advance the franchise as much as we would have hoped.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (10 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Flightjam
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 24, 2006 3:34 pm PT
Review:  NBA.... The National Basketball Association. It just goes to show that finally since NBA '95 or 
 so they decided to put in the all-star weekend. Now think about this, don't you think they could 
 have added this since NBA 2000? For sure. I guess they wanted to wait 'till 2005 or maybe they 
 didn't have the technology . Anyways I'm sure they could've put it in any time if they wanted to. 
 Well, the NBA Live series hasn't given much new things to offer except for new players, jerseys, 
 shoes, and graphics. But the All-stars was a breakthrough in game play. Now I believe that they 
 should involve the World organization known as FIBA, like FIFA. They should add all world teams 
 and that would make it exciting to try out too. I'm sure they could do that if they already did 
 that with FIFA. Anyways, the NBA Live 2005 game is good but could have been better if they actually 
 added all the All-star events. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aj_102
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 15, 2006 6:31 am PT
Review:  the gameplay to this game is particularly good !! i love it my self !! one of the main things is 
 the knwoledge it knows about the nba !! its all real and cool unlike nba street whch is very petty 
 compared to thi game !! there are several new feuters to it aswell !! all very well though and 
 good nes to add to this ame !! i havent playes nba live 2006 yet but from wat i hear its better 
 than 2005 which is hard to belive this game was soo good !! its a reccommended game to anyone who 
 is into sports good gameplay easy gameply and decent graphics !! its also out for most consoles 
 like xbox ps2 and pc !! it can be bought for a bout 15 quid because the new one is out (2006) !! 
 its still very good and i recomend it to anyone from 7 + !! the good new feutres are the all star 
 ontest !! and the best of them is the brilliant SLAM DUNK CONTEST !! im sure everone will luv it 
 !! its fantastic and works out with everything ! you get to choose a player and go through a conest 
 with other pkayers to dunk the ball in any good way and the more points you gety you win the contest 
 !! this comes accross in the season mode too !! pritty good !! thres other ones too but not as 
 good !! aj_102
  
  ps: 100 or more hours is only because i enjoyed it !! i completed the seaon mode in about 2 days 
 on hardest mode !! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brunogodoi
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 27, 2006 4:38 am PT
Review:  Em Nba Live 2005 voc tem a sua disposio a maior liga profissional de basquete do mundo, e nada 
 menos nada mais que os principais craques da categoria. De Koby Briant, passando por O'Neil, e 
 outras grandes estrelas, aos novatos como Nen Hilrio, o game traz todos os jogadores e clubes 
 da NBA.
  
  Com um sistema de jogo cada vez mais real, o jogo  gostoso e fcil de jogar, e com um pouco de 
 treino jogadas e mais jogadas podem surgir, passes perfeitos, enterradas e muita ao.
  
  Alm do modo normal de jogo, com partidas onde o gamer pode escolher a durao, o jogo traz tambpem 
 um compeonato de enterradas que  muito legal, onde o usurio cria uma combinao de teclas e cria 
 assim cerca de 10 mil enterradas diferentes. E com mais e mais treino, enterradas mais e mais complexas 
 vo surgindo.
  
  Se voc quer passar horas e horas tocando, correndo, saltando, mas sem ter a estafa fisica, este 
  o game, que tambm  oficial para os basqueteiros de planto, que sofrem por no existir transmisso 
 de jogos da NBA, e que querem estar sempre informados sobre os times da NBA. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tamirganbaatar
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 31, 2005 11:25 pm PT
Review:  I thought this game was just fun for an hour and i would become bored from it. Now this winter, 
 the 2006 version was released and when i tried it and played the 2005 back, i realized that this 
 NBA Live 2005 game was not bad at all. Even it maybe the best basketball game of all time. The 
 graphics is a total improvement and the movements are so realistic.
  
  Some may say the slam dunk competition is unrealistic, but HEY this is a GAME and game has to have 
 something fantastic and make you say WOW!!! You can take pleasure from seeing all the high flying 
 jumps and amazing finishes!!!!!!!!
  
  If you want something more life-like, just play the play-now mode or start a career and play the 
 games of your team. In the game, its just like real people. Well, of course its not 100% real, 
 but the improvement is remarkable. The game modes consist of practice mode, slam dunk school, freestyle 
 challenge, career mode, all star weekend. If you played the 2004 version, you will really feel 
 the difference. Eventhough if you played the 06 version, you should try this again and see how 
 this game rocks your gaming experience!!! 
  
  Keep playing... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CTOCTOCTO
Rating: 7.6
Date: Dec 31, 2005 2:55 pm PT
Review:  Unlike reviews of other versions of NBA Live 2005, it's easy to declare EA the undisputed king 
 of basketball simulations on the PC. Unfortunately, that's because NBA Live's main competitor, 
 ESPN NBA 2K5, doesn't exist for the PC. It's a PS2/Xbox-only title. So that leaves the few remaining 
 PC enthusiasts who also happen to be basketball fans with pretty much one option. Fortunately, 
 that option turns out to be pretty good.
  
  NBA Live 2005 picks right up where 2004 left off. The graphics are moderately improved but still 
 somewhat lacking, the multiplayer is still quite functional (although there are surprisingly few 
 people online to play it with) , and the basic mechanics of the basketball simulation itself are 
 largely unchanged. Players have the option to choose from several offensive patterns, including 
 pick-and-rolls, isolation setups, post-ups, and more. (There's full keyboard support, but as with 
 most PC sports titles, we definitely recommend a dual analog gamepad.) You're also free to choose 
 between various full-court, half-court, and zone defenses. Players will fight for position down 
 low, jump into the lane to take charges, feint to throw their man off balance, and in general perform 
 very well. This is all stuff that appeared in 2004's entry and has been left untouched or only 
 slightly refined (for example, collision detection is somewhat improved) . There are only a few 
 real differences.
  
  If you Own NBA Live 2004 there's no need for this piece of ****. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gackt_2305
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 4, 2005 4:20 pm PT
Review:  nba 2005 bring you a complete basket-ball game, you cann't ask for more
  
  the good :
  1. nice i mean very nice graphic
  2. lots of mode to play
  3. very cool slam dunk contest
 
  4. good face drawing
  5. funny commentator
  6. can run in low spec computer
  7. cool soundtrack
  
  the bad :
  1. AI com, sometime in the game AI act very stupid eg when 
 the ball is on the ground, the oponent team will not run for it, they will walk to the ball, in 
 reality they will run as fast as they can to grab the free ball
  2. the hard mode is not relevant, i mean if you set to hard then the player who has lower stat 
 than you can compare with you eg player who had 60 stat on speed will run equal with player who 
 had 87 speed stat 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ariel_king
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 16, 2005 10:52 am PT
Review:  I played this game and let me tell you that this game rocks!!!!
  
  Gameplay: Unbelivible. You can play in season mode, dynasty mode and you can even bring the europien 
 leauge into this game.
  
  Graphics: Beautiful: Until this year, the graphics of the baseket ball got to the maximum.
  
 
  Sound: The same sound as the last titles. There are the announcers, and the classic music.
  
  Value: In this title there is an online mode so this game is the best basketball game of all 
 time.
  
  Reviewer's tilt: Overall this game is the best basketball game of all time and this game rocks!!!!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kroloth
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 27, 2005 11:53 am PT
Review:  NBA 2005 brings to you the best you could ask for. The graphics are superb, and the gameplay is 
 great. Having various options in Game Mode makes the game even more interesting. Dynasty mode was 
 well made, and the NBA All Star weekend is awesome. Having all the NBA teams at your command and 
 being able to do the Draft and create your own player makes the game a dream come true to any basketball 
 fan. Enjoy the game as if you where one of the players yourself, call the plays, shoot at will, 
 train your team, or even an individual player. This game just keeps getting better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: midnightsteel
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 30, 2004 8:19 pm PT
Review:  This game is just O. K. Not good, not great and not bad just O. K. I am in the middle of a season 
 in dynasty mode. 
  
  I noticed that the computer AI is not always up to par. For example. While putting a press on my 
 opponent, a pass will fly near one of my defenders and they would not even bother to stick a hand 
 out to try to intercept. This doesnt always happen, but it happens enough for me to notice. I also 
 noticed that just in order to keep the game close the computer will have some mediocre player explode 
 for 40 points just to beat you, cause all of a sudden my team cant make a lay up or a decent pass 
 to save their lives. To add to the magical superstar players, I can never get a call in my favor 
 for being pushed out of bounds. Whats the deal with that?
  
  The controls are kind of suspect also. I noticed that that damn off the ball control comes up at 
 the worse times when I am trying to back down an opponent. When this happens I have to wait until 
 it goes away on its own or I will end up making a bad pass cause I couldnt control the player with 
 the ball. Very frustrating 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SkullLeader00
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 2, 2004 4:07 am PT
Review:  Well ... the past NBA Live games have disaointed me to the point where I never thought I would 
 buy another one. But alas I have no will power and here i am playing NBA Live 2005 trying to make 
 new players and team.
  Bottom line the game is better. It won't blow you away nor will be become a classic in any such 
 way ... however, this game kicks ass. With the new all star weekend the game expands and gives 
 you the the dunk competition, 3pt contest, and allstar games. It also expands on the one on one 
 and give you options to play one on one in the 3pt contest and dunk contest which is great! Just 
 like EA's MLB 04, you can try to win points and beat the other person within a specified time.
 
  
  So do I like this game? Yes. Does it blow my mind? NO. But I will enjoy this for the year and play 
 when my favorite team the Houston Rockets are on tv :)
  Creating players got easier with more options, and the game seems more fluid with better defense. 
 Gamespot commented a long time ago that the developers were trying to make defense better which 
 they did but it wasn't constricting the game speed.
  
  I think this is the best of the series! If you still aren't sure whether you want to shell out 
 the $39 then go to best buy and try it on the xbox in the hallway. Its the same darn game but I 
 am a PC junkie and the graphics are lot easier on the eyes!
  
  Conclusion: the game is worth less than $30 so if you can wait more power to you. But its still 
 worth getting.
  
  Oh and P. S: The game is worthy only because Ernie Johnson and Kenny Smith grace us with the commentary. 
 Maybe next year they can pry Charles Barkley off his fat ass and say something =D 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
