-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Necromania: Traps of Darkness
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/necromaniatrapofdarkness/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 There's a goofy moment in the opening cutscene that is worth a laugh.
 That's it.
 No really; that's all.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Poorly designed.
 Clunky interface.
 Awful graphics.
 Even worse speech and sound effects.
 No one to play against online.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul 20, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 3.7
Critic Score: 4.1, 2 Review (s)
User Score: 3.1, 188 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Strategy First
Developer: Cinemax
Genre: Strategy
Date:     May 6, 2005
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Necromania's poorly implemented design, clunky interface, Stone Age graphics, and horrible sound 
 effects combine to form a product that is impossible to recommend to anyone. 

  At first glance, Necromania: Traps of Darkness appears to be yet another 2D, dungeon-crawling Diablo 
 clone, with click-to-attack gameplay and an isometric, overhead viewpoint. Unfortunately, it's 
 actually a lot worse than that description. Necromania is more of a strategic puzzle game than 
 it is an action role-playing game. There's usually nothing wrong with that, but in this case, the 
 game's poorly implemented design, clunky interface, Stone Age graphics, and horrible sound effects 
 combine to form a product that is impossible to recommend to anyone.  

          Seven different classes are available for play.     

  In the game, you take the role 
 of one of seven different servants of Ragnar, an evil god who has been locked up by the good guys. 
 You and the six other servants have broken out of your own prison, and you must compete with one 
 another to be the first to free your master. The seven servants consist of different character 
 classes, ranging from an orc sleuth, to a magician, a knight, and a skeleton warrior. Each class 
 has varying speed and strength, a melee attack, a special skill (the magician turns invisible, 
 while the fog woman can turn into invincible fog, for instance) , and the ability to lay traps. 

  The playing area in Necromania is broken up into 20 small levels, spanning four different settings, 
 including a prison, a forest, caves, and a mountainous region. Some of the levels have multiple 
 floors, but your goal in all of them is the same: Gather up enough keys to open all the locked 
 doors, and find the three pieces of the skeleton key that will let you access the exit portal to 
 the level for victory. Standing in your way are other artificial intelligent-controlled servants 
 that are also searching boxes and barrels in the level for the keys, as well as tons of  Indiana 
 Jones -inspired environmental hazards like flame jets and blade-trapped doorways. The idea behind 
 each level is that you must find the keys before your opponents do, or defeat them in battle and 
 take away the keys they've found, so you can find your way out. You can set traps in devious ways 
 to kill your opponents, such as placing a teleporter in a busy hallway that will warp an enemy 
 into the middle of a trapped door. Power-ups are also scattered around the level, and they can 
 increase your fighting ability.  

  On paper, the premise of Necromania sounds alright; but in practice, the game is more frustrating 
 than it is fun. Chief among the frustrations is that it's difficult to tell if a key or a piece 
 of a key that you need is still hidden in some box on the level, or if it's being carried by one 
 of your opponents. When you finally get to that last locked door, and you realize you need to take 
 another walk around the level and check every single barrel and box, as well as kill your enemies 
 who are searching for that last key, you'll struggle to keep from pulling out your hair (especially 
 when you find yourself on the opposite side of the level looking for the key and you see one of 
 your enemies escape through the portal, which results in a loss for you) . And speaking of keys, 
 the developers of Necromania force you to press a button on the keyboard in order to open a locked 
 door. When you're running from an enemy while dodging flame jets and poisonous spiders, fumbling 
 for that button on the keyboard to open the door doesn't make much sense, considering every other 
 game lets you simply click on a locked door to open it when you possess the correct key.  

          The game looks about as bad as it plays.     

  On a more fundamental level, the combat 
 in Necromania just isn't that fun. Sure, it can be satisfying to set up a clever trap that sucks 
 your enemies into a death pit. But the cost of setting devious traps (wasting time that could be 
 spent looking for keys) just isn't commensurate with the reward (which is the small possibility 
 that the defeated enemy might drop something useful) . It's much more efficient to just fight enemies 
 that you run into, although the combat in the game is dull and simply not fun. If you have a character 
 who's stronger than the opponent, you can just stand and mash on the melee button until the enemy 
 dies. If you're faster, you engage briefly, and then try to get your opponent to chase you as you 
 drop traps in your wake. That's about it.  

  Necromania possesses a weak role-playing element where you earn points after completing each level 
 that you can use to upgrade your strength or speed. But since you only get one or two points on 
 each level, adding these to your existing stats only improves you by a fractional amount, ultimately 
 making the stat boosts useless.  

  You won't find any salvation in Necromania's presentation, either. The game can only be played 
 in 800x600 or 1024x768 resolutions, resulting in a primitive, pixelated look for environments and 
 characters. The levels don't offer much variety either, and the characters animate rather poorly. 
 The game's CG cutscenes look farcical, and almost campy in execution, as though you're watching 
 an  Evil Dead  flick. It's possible that the look on the cutscenes was intentional. But the game's 
 sound effects are sparse and the speech is laughably bad. Necromania's speech literally sounds 
 as if the placeholder voices used during development were just never removed. Necromania also includes 
 LAN and Internet play for up to seven players, but you won't have any luck finding people online 
 to play against. LAN play, meanwhile, is about as bad as the single-player campaign.  

  Overall, Necromania: Traps of Darkness comes off as a hastily slapped together mess that may have 
 originally been intended as a Diablo clone, but was changed at the last moment to be more of a 
 strategic puzzler. Poor design, frustrating gameplay, and downright terrible production values 
 make Necromania a train wreck of a game that you'd do well to avoid entirely.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (5 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: gonzcast
Rating: 2.3
Date: Mar 8, 2007 10:29 am PT
Review:  I remeber the day I saw this game on a mgazine... seemed to be a nice as diablo, so I bought it... It 
 was a big mistake, the game is so bored, u cant played without feeling is such a waste of time 
 and money too. The way u try to pass some levels is so stupid, the graphics are too small and without 
 good definition, the story is so obvious... well i only could take the first levels... and i get 
 angry. I quit the gae and uninstalled from my PC... next time do some research before buying this 
 PC spam... I can recommend if it's possible to doing so as a rookie in games, not to waste your 
 video card with this kind of waste game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lambizkit
Rating: 2
Date: Dec 2, 2006 4:22 pm PT
Review:  I'll agree with every other person that reviewed this game to a point: the graphics. Since when 
 did it become all about graphics? I see some great games get rated low because of their old pre-historic 
 graphics. This game is not great by any means but that's not my point. Remember this: a game is 
 only as good as it's gameplay and story, not its graphics. Sadly most people only see the flashy 
 outside and not the inner workings. Sounds similar to Holywood myself. Is this the future of games? 
 Anyway, this game sucks. It's abysmal controls to it's boring gameplay make it a game that you 
 can forget about playing. Save your money on this one folks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deonmag
Rating: 1.1
Date: Nov 8, 2006 6:56 am PT
Review:  After reading descr on the box I run home for money. Diablo, but from the evil side - I thought. 
 I'd better broke my leg, when I was on my way back to store. This is the worst game I played so 
 long. Spend five days trying to understand the sense of this so-called diablo killer . Fighting 
 with a sleep at evening, and almost broking keyboard when anemy in 10th time sneak into the last 
 door I opened a second before I was going to do myself.
  This game is not for hotblooded. And the most of time this game is just boring, boring, boring 
 and nothing more. Don't bye it. If you do try to turn it back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sihTwercS
Rating: 2.3
Date: Dec 2, 2005 7:33 am PT
Review:  The tutorial didn't respond good, 
  the AI is uber-lame and this game is just not worth it.
  Even the intro movie is out-of-date 
 quality. Don't do it
  
  its just some lame level with a few AI running like crazy 
  avoiding your stupid traps, while you die all the time mostly.
  
  there is no fun in this game, 
 controls are bad, 
  and the combat system is nothing ,not even close to diablo's battle system.
  
  Graphics aren't 
 bad, but that's the only thing I liked.
  II can't remember for sure, but as far as I can, there's no music ingame
  the voices are lame 
 ands sound aren't that good.
  
  There's a traps system you need to rely on for killing others, but it just doesn't work.
  
 
  I only played the first level to discover that I can't even imagine that somebody could like this 
 game, and I'm quite open minded.
  
  I can't even understand that somebody would build this game :S 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ripley
Rating: 1
Date: Jul 28, 2005 4:19 am PT
Review:  by far the poorest excuse for a game Ive had the displeasure of installing since I began playing 
 video games.. starting with pong which was immensely more entertaining than this. The just horrid 
 nature of every aspect of the game just makes me cringe that its out there for sale to some poor 
 unsuspecting fan of the genre. From sound, to downright prehistoric graphics, an interface that 
 frankly doesn't interface, the weak character advancement so-called feature that is little more 
 than something to cut the boredom between levels leaves you to say the least... wanting. wanting 
 your money back that is.
  
  IF YOU READ THIS FOR THE LOVE OF ALL THAT IS SANE... PLAY Diablo II AGAIN.... a game a thousand times 
 more fun the millionth time you play it than this could EVER be! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
