-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Need for Speed Underground 2
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/driving/needforspeedunderground2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 The actual races are fun.
 Strong online stat tracking.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Too much meaningless driving to get between events.
 Heavy product placement makes the game feel like you're playing a big ad.
 Cross-genre soundtrack is too varied to give the game a cohesive sound.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 16, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.4
Critic Score: 8.4, 23 Review (s)
User Score: 8.5, 8,328 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Electronic Arts
Developer: EA Canada
Genre: GT / Street Racing
Date:     Nov 9, 2004
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Need for Speed Underground 2 is pretty good, but unfortunately most of the stuff you do in between 
 races keeps you away from the game's best moments. "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"  
       Need for Speed Underground 2 Review for PC - GameSpot                                   function 
 do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) { var imgElem =               The Video Review  
              

 Jeff gives us his firsthand impression of Need For Speed Underground 2.       Watch It          
        The Good            The actual races are fun  &nbsp;      Strong online stat tracking.  
               The Bad            Too much meaningless driving to get between events  &nbsp;    
   Heavy product placement makes the game feel like you're playing a big ad  &nbsp;      Cross-genre 
 soundtrack is too varied to give the game a cohesive sound.                      After The Fact: 
  Reviews Revisited        What's this?               Update:  Servers Offline    Posted: Nov 5, 
 2008 4:31 pm PT      Toward the end of 2006, the online service for this game was shut down by 
 EA. &nbsp;               

  Last year, EA took its long-running Need for Speed series in an exciting new direction with the 
 release of Need for Speed Underground, a racing game that focused on making the import tuner scene 
 the star of its arcade-style racing show. The game worked really well, combining the right level 
 of car customization with good track design, challenging opponents, and impressive graphical effects. 
 Now, one year later, a sequel is on the streets, adding some new race types and a big, open city 
 to cruise around. The actual racing in Need for Speed Underground 2 is still pretty good, but unfortunately 
 most of the stuff you do in between races keeps you away from the game's best moments.  

          Underground 2 gives you a whole city to drive around, but there's not much to do in it. 
     

  Need for Speed Underground 2 tries to inject a story into your career mode using static-image cutscenes 
 that pop up before some races. The effect is similar to what the Max Payne series does with its 
 noninteractive sequences, though that game pulls it off much better than Need for Speed Underground 
 2 does. Dopey story short, you're sent off to a new town after getting ambushed by a rival racing 
 crew, and you'll have to start from scratch with one car and a handful of races to get you going. 

  The biggest change made by this year's game is that the action now takes place in one large city. 
 You're given free rein to drive around wherever you want, and you'll have to drive  to  races to 
 drive  in  them. You'll also have to drive to different parts shops to customize your ride -- in 
 fact, you'll have to find most of the game's shops by cruising around the city, looking for the 
 right type of colored lights. The game gives you an onscreen map, but shops don't show up until 
 you've found them, and some races don't actually appear on the map, either.  

  On paper, this whole open-city thing sounds like an interesting idea. Someone probably sat down 
 and said, "Well, everyone likes Grand Theft Auto, and it has an open city, so our game has to have 
 an open city as well. In fact, let's even make it so that different sections of the city are locked 
 away until you progress to a certain point in the career mode." In practice, driving around the 
 city is a real drag that keeps you out of the action longer than you'd like. The game also rarely 
 takes advantage of the open city for racing purposes, staging a majority of its events on preset 
 tracks, rather than attempting to go for a Midnight Club-like "get there however you can" feel. 
 There's a menu in the garage that lets you jump to a handful of different events, but most races 
 don't show up here, and none of the shops do, either, making it completely useless.  

  You'll start out in some pretty slow cars, so the racing isn't very exciting until you earn enough 
 for a full set of upgraded performance parts. But once you've done so, the racing is fun and the 
 cars handle well. The cars are fast, and things like turning, powersliding, and proper corning 
 technique are easy to pick-up. Like in last year's game, there are a handful of different race 
 types: Circuit races are long lap-based events, sprints take you from point A to point B on a set 
 course, drag racing lets you live your life a quarter mile at a time, and drift races rank you 
 based on how squirrelly you can get on the track. New in this year's game are the street X races, 
 which are essentially regular races that take place on drift tracks. Outrun races take place in 
 various parts of the city -- you roll up behind another racer, tap a button, and then try to pass 
 and outrun him or her. You'll also encounter a few races against the clock, in which you'll have 
 to get from one point in the city to another before a photographer leaves the area. Make it, and 
 you'll get to put your car on the cover of one of the game's magazines or DVDs for extra cash. 
 The big new race type is the "underground racing league." These races are the sort of mysterious 
 events where you'll see most of the game's cutscenes. They mostly involve some knucklehead breaking 
 the lock on a race track and then swinging open a gate so your street-racing posse can race on 
 a "real" track, though you'll also bust into airports and such, too. These races are essentially 
 circuit races with racetrack scenery instead of cityscape scenery.  

          Tricking out your car's look will let you put it on the cover of a magazine or DVD.    

  Though there are three different difficulty settings for the career mode, none of them put up a 
 particularly good fight. As a result, most of the races simply boil down to getting in front of 
 the opposition and then doing what you can to not make a mistake. Between nitrous boosts and drafting, 
 gaining the lead isn't very difficult, and the game doesn't seem to employ any heavy rubber-band 
 AI routines to retake the lead from you, so you can usually stay in front without any trouble at 
 all. When you consider that it will take you about a minute to get in front, and that some of the 
 circuit races can last six minutes or more, this means that a great deal of your race time is spent 
 just cruising along, dodging traffic and not paying any attention to the other cars unless you 
 screw up and get into a wreck. In the event that you do crash, regaining the lead usually isn't 
 too tough, especially if you've purchased a nitrous-oxide upgrade, which shamelessly lifts concepts 
 from the Burnout series, translating powerslides and near-misses into extra boost for your tank. 
 The opposing cars will slow down quite a bit if they take a big lead, making them very easy to 
 beat.  

  Need for Speed Underground 2's crashes are laughably weak. While high-speed collisions with other 
 cars trigger a slow-motion, cinematic shot of the crash, the game doesn't model any damage at all. 
 It's like you're watching two plastic car models bump up against each other, accompanied by the 
 sounds of an actual car crash. While it practically goes without saying that modeling damage in 
 a game with licensed cars is still a tricky proposition, that fact doesn't make these wrecks look 
 any better. Fortunately, the game's car customization features somewhat make up for this lack of 
 visual detail.     "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        Need 
 for Speed Underground 2 Review for PC - Page 2 - GameSpot                                   function 
 do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) { var imgElem =  
 if (! imgElem) { return true; } if (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri 
 =  var newUri = cTrkPrefix + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return 
 true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 (parentId, iTrkId, iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return 
 false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { var 
 parentElem =  if (! parentElem) { return false; } var imgElem 
 = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; imgElem. src 
 = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; imgElem. height = '1';  
 } return true; }   ON   The Insider :  Megan Foxs Trip Across the Border    //            
    GAMES:     GameSpot     GameFAQs     MUSIC:     Last. fm     MP3. com     MOVIES:     Metacritic 
     Movietome     TV:     TV. com                    GameSpot. com                Search         
                       BioShock 2 Exclusive First Look:  We head back to Rapture with...        
        Spore Galactic Adventures Q&amp; A:  Lead Producer Kip...               Starcraft II: Wings 
 of Liberty Battle Report:  Its Zerg...               Mafia II Impressions:  The sequel to 
 the cult-classic 2002...                    home        PC      Xbox 360      Wii      PS3     
  PS2      PSP      DS        community      forums      videos      cheats      features      downloads 
      sports      tech      news            Reviews     Previews     Cheats     Answers     New 
 Releases     Top Games     All PC Games     Tech Center          Theme:   Light    Dark        
     Sign In    Create your account    Help    Forgot Password?                                 
       Add Game       Tag       Print       Email       Facebook       Digg                     
          Need for Speed Underground 2 Review          

 Need for Speed Underground 2 is pretty good, but unfortunately most of the stuff you do in between 
 races keeps you away from the game's best moments.               The Good            The actual 
 races are fun  &nbsp;      Strong online stat tracking.                The Bad            Too much 
 meaningless driving to get between events  &nbsp;      Heavy product placement makes the game feel 
 like you're playing a big ad  &nbsp;      Cross-genre soundtrack is too varied to give the game 
 a cohesive sound.                      After The Fact:  Reviews Revisited        What's this?  
              Update:  Servers Offline    Posted: Nov 5, 2008 4:31 pm PT      Toward the end of 
 2006, the online service for this game was shut down by EA. &nbsp;               

  A big part of Need for Speed Underground 2 is the ability to customize your car's performance and 
 appearance. On the performance side, you'll purchase parts that have been organized into stages, 
 which gives the game an easy way to lock the better parts away from you until you're ready for 
 them. While the parts fall into different categories, like engines, brakes, tires, and ECUs, the 
 only thing you really need to know is that you need them all to win races. The visual enhancements 
 are a little more involved and give you a little more leeway, but ultimately you'll need to trick 
 out the look of your cars to proceed, as having a flashy car is the only way to get noticed and 
 end up on magazine and video covers. Each set of parts has a number associated with it, and these 
 contribute to a meter that sums up how many pieces of flair you've bolted to your whip. Spoilers, 
 neons, vinyls, roof scoops, spinner rims, custom gauges, and even speakers for your trunk are just 
 some of the available modifications, and they all help your car stand out. This is especially handy 
 online, where you can show off your stuff to the world.  

          NFSU2 packs in an obscene amount of product placement.     

  Need for Speed Underground 
 2 is online on the PS2, PC, and new to this year's game, the Xbox. The online mode is pretty straightforward, 
 letting you set up races in any of the game's race types, and it also features a free run mode, 
 in case you just want to cruise around the city with other players. As you'd expect, the online 
 mode works well over an average broadband connection, even with a full six players in a race. The 
 game also does a good job with statistics and rankings, which can help you find evenly matched 
 races. You can also limit races to cars of a certain rank, or just open it up and let people take 
 their career-mode vehicles onto the track. The GameCube lacks online play, and to add insult to 
 injury, the already-shaky frame rate gets a little shakier when you play in the GameCube version's 
 splitscreen mode.  

  While Need for Speed Underground 2 is attempting to emulate an illegal scene of "underground" street 
 racing, the game really tries to drive its product placement down your throat. Things like billboards 
 on the sides of the roads aren't too bad (though with an ad for a financial service popping up 
 on some signs, you have to wonder who EA's target audience for this game is) , and the occasional 
 real-life fast-food joint does its part to make the city feel a little more realistic. But basing 
 the game's whole onscreen display around the logo for a cellular phone service provider crosses 
 the line. Sorry, but there's nothing "underground" about forcing a bunch of non-car-related corporate 
 logos on people. The game's hokey dialogue also adds to the counterfeit feel. The overzealous script 
 is constantly throwing poorly placed slang at you, having Brooke Burke use her teleprompter voice 
 to tell you that "you've got to be racing tight," constantly calling you "dawg," or being very 
 careful to always call your money "bank."  

  Graphically, Need for Speed Underground 2 looks good, unless you're talking about the GameCube 
 version, which has a wildly unstable frame rate that really gets in the way of the action in some 
 races. But in the other three versions, the car models are sharp and the city looks fine. For the 
 most part, the game keeps running at a smooth frame rate, even in the later stages, when you're 
 moving much, much faster. But at the same time, it isn't quite the effects show that the last game 
 was. You still get nice little effects, like the shaky camera used to show drag races, but the 
 blur effects are much less pronounced now, which is too bad, because they were really well implemented 
 last year. Now, you get blurring at very high speeds or when you kick in the nitrous oxide, but 
 more would have been better. Like last year, the PS2 version is the heaviest on the effects, though 
 the overall look is still a little subdued. For the most part, the different versions of the game 
 look very similar, with the Xbox and PC versions allowing for slightly higher visual fidelity than 
 the PlayStation 2 version, and the GameCube version bringing up the rear, but ultimately the only 
 major differences come down to the GameCube version not having online support, the Xbox version's 
 analog triggers being the best control scheme for the game, and the PC version not playing very 
 well with the keyboard controls (you'll need at least an analog gamepad if you're planning on playing 
 this game on the PC) .  

  The game's sound rises above its lame dialogue and poorly delivered speech. The engine sounds aren't 
 quite as deep or as throaty as you might like, but the game is great at changing the sound of your 
 car as you purchase upgrades. Also, things like the whoosh of wind when you fly under an overpass 
 really help sell the game's sense of speed.  

          Finally, Snoop Dogg and Jim Morrison, together again for the first time.     

  Musically, 
 Need for Speed Underground 2 is all over the place. The schizophrenic sounds start with the game's 
 lead song, which is a remix of The Doors' "Riders on the Storm" done by prominent rap producer 
 Fredwreck. Snoop Dogg joins Jim Morrison on the vocals here. For some people that will be blasphemy, 
 but the remix sounds pretty good. The part that ruins it, though, is that Snoop is rapping about 
 the racing -- Need for Speed is specifically mentioned in the lyrics. Again, if you're going to have 
 a game with "underground" right in the name, showcasing a song that does double duty as both an 
 ad for the game and as an extreme case of exploitation of an old favorite probably isn't the best 
 idea. Other songs on the soundtrack include "Lean Back" by the Terror Squad, "LAX" by Xzibit, and 
 tracks from Sly Boogy, Felix Da Housecat, Paul Van Dyk, Cirrus, Ministry, Queens of the Stone Age, 
 Mudvayne, Helmet, and more. This is a textbook case of a soundtrack that tries to appeal to too 
 many different audiences and ends up not including enough of any one style to please anyone. Xbox 
 users won't be able to fix the problem, either, as the game doesn't contain custom-soundtrack support. 
 However, you'll be able to at least turn off tracks that you don't like.  

  Need for Speed Underground 2 starts with last year's game as a template and builds from there. 
 Unfortunately, almost everything that has been added to this year's game detracts from the overall 
 experience. Once you're in and racing and customizing your cars, it's a lot of fun, but there are 
 too many obstacles standing between you and the best parts of the game.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (157 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Slim_Pup
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 24, 2009 7:03 pm PT
Review:  For one who is new to the Need for Speed series, I am thoroughly enjoying Need for Speed Underground 
 2, and the level of which I am immersed in it has been surprising to me. The biggest addition to 
 the game is the free-roaming city. Some may say that this is a distraction from the game's best 
 moments, but I think that it can be argued. To me, the "best" racing moments of the game can still 
 be enjoyed, because it's not like they took out the racing and put in a big city for the hell of 
 it. With the storyline and all the new additions built in, the free-roaming city fits into the 
 game well.
  
  The only problem that I really had with this game is that it was a little too easy. During races, 
 it was only a matter of holding down the accelerate button and avoiding accidents to win. Even 
 if you did happen to lose the first place standing, gaining it back is no problem. I did get a 
 lot more thrill playing single races in hard mode, though.
  
  Overall, I thoroughly enjoyed the game so far, and I believe that I will continue to do so. It 
 does have its imperfections, and I can't say that big NFS fanatics will see the game in as good 
 of a light as I do, but I think it's pretty great and give it an 8.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark__Warrior
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 15, 2009 12:18 pm PT
Review:  NFS Underground 2 is truly wonderful game with alot of wonderful effects and graphics, but it has 
 alot of drawbacks.
  
  First of all, it has a totally boring story which can easily make a player just drop off playing 
 it. the story just talks about someone coming from another country seeking something until he finds 
 some cars and sponsors begin sponsoring him every where. Putting his car on different magazine 
 covers and so on wasn't a good idea.
  
  Secondly, The cut scenes are just made of simple pictures just like kids' comics. this makes u fell 
 tht u are playing a game with no real story or aim.
  
  
  Finally, The whole game is just at night with no police after u ,u just wander in the street racing 
 people and racers whith no other things to do which eventually makes u just drop off playing the 
 game as u get bored.
  
  i think the only thing i liked about the game was the way u could pimp Your Ride. u change everything 
 from hoods to head back left and right bumper and so on.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: vlakashazosexip
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 8, 2009 9:44 am PT
Review:  a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a qa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a aq a aa a a a a aa a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a aa a aa a s s ss 
 s s s ss s s aasd d sx szxs d d d d d da aaa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a s s s d df g g 
 g g tyy j n n n n hj yh k i y t d sq a swdf fg g g g g g g bh n j h gt tf f f bg m hnmbbc s sas 
 fcvg hj j gb g frfrrr r r r r r r r r r r rrrr d f ddddsdss s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s 
 s s s s s s xc fc d f f f f f f g tt t t t t tt t a a a a a d ff f f f f f f f f f f f f f 
 fg r rt t g g v h gh h h h hh h h h h h h h h h y y m n ng gh nh h h h h h s s s s 
 s s x d f f r r t y j j u u u y hgh h n j k k h y t t t t t r r d d f v g g h y yy y y g gh 
 h g g v vv ff f f fg b b g g g g f r r rr ff v v v 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Electroctoo
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 11, 2008 8:54 am PT
Review:  Need For Speed Underground 2 is a very well-developed game, involving amazing environment and specacular 
 gameplay.
  
  The principal idea of building a street racer's reputation along the time is very nice, also unblocking 
 the cars and Bayview's districts.
  
  Bayview is what I liked most in this game. The agglomerate buildings, the refreshing ambient of 
 a big city, and the high-speed expressways that interlaces themselves throughout the places.
  
  Also, the possibility to rove around the street-racing world without having to race all the 
 time and have no time to enjoy the developer's work in the landscape.
  
  The only thing that disappointed me was the absurd number of races that shows themselves available 
 as you make progress. It gets boring sometimes, but there's always a new car to keep you addicted 
 to the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Supra_Guy
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 22, 2008 10:01 am PT
Review:  Ahhhh... The time when the NFS series used to rock, brings back such wonderful memories. 
  For me it was and still is as a matter of fact, the perfect street racing game, perfect driving 
 physics , solid graphics, amazing sounds, tons , tons of customization both esthetical and performance 
 wise (even a dyno where you could measure your cars HP and adjust it with numerous combinations) , replays, 
 a big city in which you could roam whenever you want and challenge other racers which are cruising 
 to outruns, discover all kind of shops hidden in different parts of the city which give you access 
 to new parts, take your own car's photos wherever you want in the city for different real life 
 magazines and many many many more. Also you receive unique performance or visual bonuses at some 
 specific races and they are not always the same so the game has a huge replay value.
  Playing Undercover today and seeing what NFS has become, i sadly think about the past and realize 
 how great U2 was... WAKE UP EA !! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bad_Boyl2
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 12, 2008 1:28 am PT
Review:  I liked this game from their franchise, but really haven't got to try the other in their franchise 
 yet. This game is different from the other racing games I've played before. Why? Thats what I'm 
 here to do, patience...
  
  Gameplay:
  Yes, all you do is drive most of the time. But they make it fun! Different types of races, areas/regions, 
 lots of customization is in the game. That is the big thing on my list. I love customization, it 
 was great :) You could select different types, colors, cutomixed vechiles. Own more than 1 at a 
 time and make your rides hot! The story... eh.. kinda ignored it. The story wasn't good. I understood 
 that I'm a guy trying to make a name for myself in the city. Story sn't what got me....
  
  Graphics/Sound
  Graphice were really good from the time I had bought it. But of course there 
 are games with better graphices nowadays. Great detail - in everything, not just your car. But 
 most of the detail was in the cars of the game.
  
  I've rated this game 8.5/10 because I've liked it a lot, played for quite a long time. But I don't 
 play it any more. Great game :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mehboob_j
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 11, 2008 9:31 am PT
Review:  ('=') I have completed this game two times, i just loved the drag and drift racing, especially 
 drag racing, i just die on this game. This is really a racking racing game i hav ever played, its 
 handling, graphics, sound effects, audio and controlling section, all the accessories and parts 
 i have unlocked were osum. i really enjoyed completing it two times. the hardest racing i found 
 in this game is "Street X racing". My favourite Car is "Audi TT", which i liked from every point 
 of view, the style, design, modifications i made to that car and the vinyl looks, each and every 
 thing i liked the most. i won all races without losing any race, which keep my rating 100 %. i 
 had top ten modified cars in the main menu, which i used to race to feel the speed of resistance 
 of the surrounding. the At last i can say dat it is really to be memorable playing this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: baboy_baka
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 26, 2008 5:09 am PT
Review:  When i was playing this game, I thought it was 'just' good. The cars were decent and the races 
 were ok. The introduction of the free roam was probably why need for speed underground 2 was a 
 favorite and the customization of the cars had a greater depth than the first underground. 
  
  Since NFSU2 is pretty much focused on the import scene, most of the cars are tuners. there 
 wasn't any variety of other cars such as European exotics or the American muscle (like those in 
 NFS carbon) . The customization in NFSU2 is really good. Other than performance tuning, customizing 
 your cars looks was fun.
  
  In NFSU2, the races are pretty fun. There are different types of races such as the classic circuit, 
 drag, sprint and drift. The new street x was pretty much like go-kart racing and had a go-kart 
 feel, and i thought this new race type was pretty much the same as the circuit only with tighter 
 corners. Free roam is probably my favorite feature since i always wanted to a car game where you 
 can drive freely around the city other than just racing.
  
  However, there are some parts of this game that need addressing or i found really annoying. What 
 irritated me was the heavy product placement when playing the game, with some advertisements from 
 companies that had nothing to do with racing at all like 'burger King' and 'best buy' and also 
 'ING direct'. I also didn't really like how the storyline was portrayed using comic-like cut scenes. 
 It wasn't engaging enough for me. Another annoyances i found was the lengthy races and the difficulty 
 of the game, which i found 'too easy' to complete as well as the length of the game. i found NFSU2 
 kind of long to the point you can get bored of it. 
  
  Overall, the game is okay to play. There were some room for improvement, but EA decided to not 
 take it any further. The long dragging length of the game, mediocre storyline and 'the lack of 
 police', NFSU2 just makes it over the average score line.
  
  PROS
  - car customization
  - Free Roam 
  - the racing
  
  CONS
  - too lengthy 
  - heavy product placement
  - bad 
 storyline
  - lack of police
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark777888
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 9, 2008 8:23 pm PT
Review:  Some people will whine about how it takes a long time to get from race to race or about how its 
 the same game as the last one but when it comes down to it, the gameplay makes it great, the freeroam 
 is fun, and the tuning is fun to do.
  
  Need for Speed is ideally the same game every time. You race on the streets, escape the cops, and 
 drive showy sports cars. But with the addition of freeroam to this latest edition the series makes 
 a huge turn in the right direction. In NFS Underground 2, you start off at the bottom of the food 
 chain trying to work your way up to the top and take out a shady racing king. The story is portrayed 
 in comicbook-like cutscenes that pop up before key races and is decent enough that it can be enjoyed 
 but also can be ignored without any problem.
  
  The cars in NFSU2 are all tuner cars and the car you choose is based mostly on preference, for 
 all the cars can be tuned to a perfect level. The cars are based on handling, acceleration, and 
 top speed. The game also features SUVs that are useful early in the game but at the end are useless 
 because of their lack of handling and acceleration.
  
  The race types include your basic circuit (lap based) , sprint (go from point A to point B before 
 your opponents) , and drag (go a quarter mile without totaling your ride or blowing out your engine) . 
 On top of that the game has drift where you accumulate points by sliding around the track as much 
 as possible, superX where you race normally on drift tracks which are small and fun, and underground 
 races where you race on real tracks. The variety of tracks makes the game constantly fun and you 
 are unlikely to get bored of it.
  
  All in all i say go get the game for whatever system you have and run through the career so you 
 can play with your friend. Its a great addition to any collection and will leave you with a good 
 feeling after you play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gumeh
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 31, 2008 1:45 am PT
Review:   Preview 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hardheartman
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 20, 2008 2:22 am PT
Review:  It's fun and addicting at first, but once you get near the end, you will be wondering why you're 
 still playing. First of all, the story is not attractive. Throughout the game you see "cutscenes" 
 where the game puts a picture on the screen and the actor talks. It looks cheap, it's not really 
 a good way to tell a story.
  One main problem with this game is that its too easy and too long .By the way long means more races 
 and hence more wins .
  There are a bunch races to choose from; Drift, Static X, Sprint, Drag, Circuit and URL. My least 
 favorite are street X and URL races. Street x races take place in a closed course, a very small 
 course, actually. They are very similar to the courses designed for Go-Karts. URL is too easy and 
 too long and really boring.
  drag races is short and sometimes hard. drift is too fun, it's easy in first levels but in high 
 levels it's hard (almost) . sprint races is very good but circuit races is somtimes boring.
  The car selection is bad. You can unlock a 3000Gt, a Skyline, a Mustang GT, and GTO, and a few 
 other cars but that's it. It's really bad, especially considering that this is EA, I'm sure they 
 can get more licences than this. Where are the Ferraris, the Porches, the bmw, the lamborghini and 
 the mercedes?
  So it all sounds good. A good game. But UG2 is too repeatative. Its really cool to pimp out your 
 car, but, other than that, there's nothing special this game offers. 
  For my opinion, get Most Wanted! It has the best caracteristics of Undergroun 2 but it doesn't 
 have the same boring stuff Underground 2 has. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlirezaAAA
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 11, 2008 8:57 am PT
Review:  This review consists of the following parts:
  
  1. Introduction
  2. Gameplay
  3. Graphics
  4. Sounds
  5. Rating
  6. Problems
  
  1. There are some important points 
 that must be mentioned exactly at the beginning. This game is really fantastic. If you are a real 
 fan of street racing games, this is a game for you. No other game in this category is even comparable 
 to this title. Comparing with its predecessor, almost everything is improved: Graphics, music tracks, 
 sounds, story line, car details (visual parts and performance parts) , road details and so on. I 
 have not seen any games considering so much details for a car. Many things are out there to achieve, 
 including magazines, DVD covers, unique parts that can only be achieved through outruns. Now is 
 the time to be more accurate about the game features.
  
  2. The first thing i must mention here, is about the additions to the previous version. Now there 
 are more races available: StreetXs, SUVs, URLs and drifts in the streets (as i call it) . StreetX 
 can be a difficult race if you choose to play in the hard mode. But they can be mastered easily. 
 The race takes place in a very small track with very tight corners like the tracks of drift races. 
 As rumours say this is not a very favourable race but they must be finished for progress in the 
 game. SUV races are not favourite ones. If you play in the easy mode, you will win the races very 
 very easily especially when you have not upgraded your SUV. By upgrading the SUV, you will see 
 very bad results. Controlling the car is almost impossible. I propose just finishing the SUV races 
 without upgrading the car because if you want to achieve 100% completion of the game, this must 
 be done. I have not seen anyone attracted to this races. At last i can say that this races are 
 irrelevant to this game and will decrease the game rating. Now is the time for speaking about favourite 
 races. I think the most attracting races are drifts especially those that take place in the "Jackson 
 Heights". I love them and i score more than 500,000 in some races (i mean the last one) . Circuits 
 and sprints are neutral. When playing in easy mode, all the races are easy but when you set the 
 difficulty to hard, URLs and drags become hard. Menus use proper icons and using them is really 
 easy. Charging the NOS is something new and adds to races excitement. Tuning the car is included 
 in this game and really works. Story is improved compared to the previous version. There are some 
 hidden races in the game that are not hard to find.
  
  3. Graphics has not improved so much from the previous version. Of course everything is more beautiful, 
 has more details, reflections has improved, but these are not mandatory for the designers of the 
 game. PCs improve and these things should improve. When i talk about improvement, i mean new things 
 and i have not seen a real new thing in the game's graphic. At last the improvement in detail is 
 noticeable but not as desired.
  
  4. Improvement in sound effects and EA trax are noticeable especially when compared to improvements 
 in graphics. I love the first song when entering the main menu. Other songs can be heard completely 
 in the races. In the previous version i could not hear any thing but the sound of engine and tires.
 
  
  5. I have a rating system for games that consists of many parts including comparison with previous 
 versions of course if there is a previous version. This game has not improved from the previous 
 version as i desire so there will be a decrease in ranking. I give it 7 and i this is fair.
  
  6. And at last i must write about problems and bugs.
  a. You can win races and finish the 
 game without upgrading your car because your rivals use the same upgrades as you use of course 
 no one likes to drive a stock car. I think that the game must be designed so that upgrading the 
 car be something compulsory. You even have no need to use more than one car but if you do these 
 actions, you can not reach to 100% completion of the game. I must mention something here: you can 
 not win the DVD covers, magazines and unique upgrades without upgrading your car because you are 
 challenging the time. Drifts in the Jackson Heights also needs upgrades because there are no real 
 rivals and you must challenge some records.
  b. Drifts have some problems. Why cars should drift with each other? What is achieved from this 
 idea? I can not see anything good with this.
  c. There is a bug that happened only once for me: i reset the car position and the car was out 
 of the race street. It was behind that flashing wall that is used for showing the way and i was 
 not able to enter the race map in anyway so i restarted the race.
  d. I do not understand the philosophy behind three different difficulties in the races. Everyone 
 can finish the game in difficult mode because this game is really an easy game.
  e. Changes have made in default game controls. I think this is not necessary. I changed the controls 
 to the ones used in previous version but there was a real problem here: In Vista, every time that 
 i entered the game, the controls return to their default and i was obliged to change them again. 
 This did not happened in XP.
  f. Using free roam for the first time is something really appreciable but there must be shortcuts 
 for reaching the races. The option to use free roam or shortcut for reaching a race must have been 
 included in the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ab_neo_007
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 9, 2008 6:33 pm PT
Review:  this is one game which i would like to play over and over again........ night time street racing 
 is damn fun and this is the game that proves it......... maybe the graphics are not that good as 
 nfs prostreet, carbon or most wanted but still the essential components are all there........ the 
 car body, the upgrades especially the neon and other specialities. I really miss these in the other 
 sequels. I feel EA games should bring out another game thats like nfs underground 2........... 
 it is the first racing game that has an world explore mode and u really have to find out the places 
 where the racing takes place........ another aspect was the concept of hidden races which are not 
 displayed in the mini map........... and the sponsors and the races specified by them......... it 
 was cool really!!! though after playing the other sequels the car handling seems dated but once 
 you get the hang of it the game hooks you on. Thats all I gotta say about it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agordplayer
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 7, 2008 2:22 pm PT
Review:  This is a very good game. Great graphics. Has lol of cars to choose from. Great game. Masterpiece. 
 Even better than the first underground. You can free roam in this one. I spent alot of time playing 
 this game. Dont play it as much as I used to. 10.0 stars out of 10.0 stars. This is a very good 
 game. Great graphics. Has lol of cars to choose from. Great game. Masterpiece. Even better than 
 the first underground. You can free roam in this one. I spent alot of time playing this game. Dont 
 play it as much as I used to. 10.0 stars out of 10.0 stars. This is a very good game. Great graphics. 
 Has lol of cars to choose from. Great game. Masterpiece. Even better than the first underground. 
 You can free roam in this one. I spent alot of time playing this game. Dont play it as much as 
 I used to. 10.0 stars out of 10.0 stars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yrill
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 23, 2007 11:13 am PT
Review:  Need for Speed Underground 2 is a sequel to Need For Speed Underground (1) . In the game you'll 
 race against various opponents. 
  You can tune your car by upgrading your engine, transmission, suspension, nitrous oxide, turbo, 
 weight, brakes, tires, etc. 
  You can customize your car by painting it, using Vinyls, add neon-lights, etc.
  
  The good 
 features:
  
  - It has alot of choice in customizing your car
  - Free roam is just plain fun
  - The races are nice, but not very defiant and a bit repetitive 
 (If you compare 2 circuit races they are almost the same)
  - The new racing modes such as Underground Racing League and Street X (Especially Street X) are 
 great.
  - Outrun mode is fun if you are just a bit frustrated of losing all the time at that one race you 
 can't win.
  - There are SUV's!
  
  Letdowns:
  
  - The road looks like some pixels. It is not very detailed.
  - Need For Speed Underground (1) 
 has some kind of blur that makes the game looks nice. Why does Need for Speed Underground 2 not 
 have that? (On the PC. PS2 has the blur)
  - There's some bug that says you are just at 61, somewhat % of the game and suddenly the game is 
 finished, and you'll look astonished. At least... That's what I did =) 
  - Even a beginner that plays on Easy will easily complete the game without losing alot of races. 
 If you race against opponents with the difficulty easy, the opponents will crash (on traffic) every 
 minute. So you'll easily get up ahead with alot of leading time (around +10 sec to 1 minute, and 
 I tell you, that's alot. You need to crash 2 times in a row if they wanna catch you up in 10 secs) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Themanzjii
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 30, 2007 2:04 pm PT
Review:  It is indeed true...
  
  I played every single game of the series and in my opinion underground 2 is the one that really 
 expresses the meaning of tuning. Everything is there from all the possible vinyls to the DVD and 
 magazine covers, somethings that were mistakenly forgotten in the latest need for speeds. And what 
 about the great drag races and the mountain drifts? (badly represented in NFS Carbon)
  
  Although police forces are not present, it has a lot more qualities than other titles in the series. 
 The races occur at night with a large city to free roam which allows you to access the races and 
 outrun with other modified cars. It supplies you with a wide variety of cars although some of them 
 might be a little.... slow? and even the mighty SUVs.
  
  The graphics are not top notch because the game was released in 2004 but it still provides a good 
 job on the cars. The soundtrack of this game is, like most of the need for speed series, amazing 
 featuring a mix of genres that please any driver. 
  
  An addictive game that can bring you lots of miles of fun!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: oonge
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 17, 2007 9:12 am PT
Review:  Need for speed underground2 in a few words would be custom tuning. This seems to be the core 
 of the game. Actually the main thing that would make you play the game. So for the person who isnt 
 into custom cars and stuff the game might end up being a bit lame.
  First to try and sort out the fun bits in the game: custom tuning pretty much does it for me. Your 
 career mode starts you off as a one time big shot racer who gets stabbed in the back and consequently 
 looses his car and credentials. You move to another town and there you start off with a basic car 
 and you get to trick it out as you move along in your career. You earn cash in races, get contracts 
 and thats your basic progression till the final boss race.
  Pretty basic and at times rather dull. It becomes really tedious driving from race to race in your 
 map as this is the only way to access them. A bit of a plus side, you can discover hidden shops 
 strewn all over the place. Also theres the street racing bit with AI racers.
  on the races, most are pretty basic, get the lead and stay there till the end. The most fun race 
 is the drift races. You earn points by coming up with long drifts without bumping into traffic 
 or walls. Drift races are the most unique aspect of the game, being a bit different and challenging. 
 The other race thats worth the mention are the street-X races, for this one your cornering makes 
 the most difference. Getting the straightest angle out of the corners puts you ahead of the pack.
 
  However as far as the races are concerned, most are really easy, no matter the difficulty level 
 one is in, getting in front and staying there is the order of the day. This is not much of a hassle. 
 Exterior body works of tunable cars is impressive, theres a lot of variety to choose from in terms 
 of body panels, rims, lights the works. Performance tuning, however, isnt all that, with mods 
 not really reflecting into car performance. In summary its a worth buy. Lots of fun most of the 
 time, and likely to launch you into later need for speed titles if its your first encounter with 
 the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1_2_3lion
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 3, 2007 5:39 pm PT
Review:  this game is cool fun and very nice but first its grphics is good but have some pixels and that 
 all alll of other things are good expet that some times i see the car some slow ...
  but after alll it is an a clasical fun game you will like it and it is form the never ending games 
 you know .....
  sorry about my english, but i like it and the controling is not bad... you see it is a goood game 
 not bad from ea sooo try it if you can
  but after all it is some old now most wanted and carbon and pro street come after her but it is 
 not a wasting time game... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowolf_12
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 19, 2007 5:17 pm PT
Review:  Even Though this game might not be the newest need for speed game out there (they make one like 
 every 6 months) this game does have a ton of fun aspects about it. 1. The custimizeable cars: There 
 are infinate possibilitys of custimizaions for your cars. And it is a great system that the further 
 you get the cooler the unlocks are, not just preformance upgrades but also visual upgrades. - Preformance 
 wise each car is different. And after you upgrade your car with all the modifiers you can still 
 go to the dyno and tune it even more. I was not great at this but I know you can fine tune your 
 car to a T. My friend was one of those people, he came over spent about an hour on the dyno and 
 tuned my car to have a higher max speed than I'v ever gotten any of my cars to sence (I think like 
 230 mph on a 240SX) . There are a few flaws like the toyota Corrola is obvilusly the best rounded 
 car after fully custimized with upgrades, but all in all I catch my self on thier just for fun 
 to make a car from scratch and test it on a Uber hard drag race. - Visuals I love the vieriety 
 of parts you can change all from painting your breaks on the wheels to trunk neon, to rear sterios 
 to full wide body kits. After you pick out what you think looks cool i doubt anyone on the internet 
 will have a car like yours. Not only are the standard unlocks cool but also there are unlocks from 
 outruns which are custom unlocks and raise your star level by a ton. 2. The Freestyle: In the game 
 there is a huge city to just drive around in as you pleaze ( A awesome idea for just crusing and 
 testing your preformance level of your car) . In this city you will find hidden shops where you 
 can buy your upgrades for your car. ( I say hidden because they dont start out on the map, you 
 have to find them first) Also racing around the city are NPC racers, who you can challenge to an 
 outrun race, which is personally my favorite. An outrun race can happen any where in the city and 
 last any where from 7 seconds to 20 mins. Your goal to is fool or just speed away 1000 meters from 
 your opponet. Some times this is very difficult.
  3. Basic racing: Well every racing game has to have the basic races and this game is good at supplying 
 a good variety. From the close tight turns of Street X to drift, to your Under ground racing league 
 (Nascar style) . This game is fun to just get on and play around on when board. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterChief725
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jul 30, 2007 8:00 pm PT
Review:  i got NFS underground 2 for $15 a couple of years ago, and installed it at the same time as NFS 
 most wanted. There is no question about which game is superior. I like the customization of underground... but 
 that was the only advantage. No cops, and almost no america cars.. That game was a letdown.. I played 
 it for a while in my old crapped out Nissan, and then it got boring. Im more of a V8 person, the 
 1-4s just dont get my adrenalince pumping... and some of those races were really tough. If you want 
 to invest in a cheap racing game, I strongly recomment Need for Speed Most Wanted over this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark_sageX
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 3, 2007 5:18 am PT
Review:  Need for Speed Underground brought the series to street racing. Underground 2 continues the street 
 race but does little to improve on the last one.
  
  Game design: In career mode you will be going through another storyline, this time it continues 
 the story from the first underground, you decided to travel to bayview to get a new spot, Samantha 
 hooks you up with her friend Rachel (Brook Burke) and will start another racing career.
  Unlike the last game you will be in a free roaming environment. You will be given spots to go to, 
 spots that will lead you to events, tuning garage and car shops. You will be given a monitor and 
 an arrow so that you dont get lost.
  Like the last game there are different conditions to races such as drag, drift and others.
  CG 
 movies have been removed and replaced with comic style page movies, which is unimpressive. Tracks 
 that you race through will be from the free roaming world so you wont really have much problem 
 memorizing the tracks.
  The game still goes at night and there is no day at all.
  
  Game play: The racing is the same as any usual NFS game except that nitros can now be recharged 
 by performing slides. All the cars from the previous game are available plus newer cars and bigger 
 cars such as Hummer H2 and Jeep.
  The vehicle customize has new things added to it but are pretty pointless, such as Lamborhgini 
 doors (doors wont open at anytime during the game) and Sub-woofers (They dont really improve 
 the sound a bit, their just there for visual) .
  Other modes such as multi-player and online are still around.
  
  Sound: There are new soundtracks 
 added to the game but dont really do anything to make the game impressive. There are lots of dialogues 
 that still dont sound as cool as in real street races.
  
  If you have played the first Underground dont expect anything from this game, apart from meaningless 
 new customize parts and really slow large cars there isnt anything impressive about this game. 
 If you havent played the previous game then you can easily skip it and get this one instead and 
 dont worry about the story, there isnt much to it but having street raced against forgettable 
 characters.
  The game hasnt really improved from the last game, it has the same graphics and same problems.
 
  Need for Speed Underground 2 is pretty much a repetitive experience and wont really last for 
 long. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Don_Shadio
Rating: 5.7
Date: Jun 1, 2007 8:06 pm PT
Review:  I never completed this game. Reason, I expecting it to be different from Underground in many ways, 
 but it turned out to be a bigger and better version of its prequel. You can drive in the city which 
 may be fun at first but gets lame later on. There are soooooo many customization options that I 
 could never decide what to do with my car, oh well that has got nothing to do with the game =P. 
 The in game cut-scenes are not videos but rather a moving comic. The game is pretty long and I 
 was bored due to the monotony so I stopped playing. If you have to decide between Underground and 
 Underground 2, (even though I dont like it) go for Underground 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jetroe
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 26, 2007 2:04 pm PT
Review:  This game took me a while to beat, especially when I played it only 2 hours a day. In my opinion, 
 the greatest car on the game is the Nissan Skyline, looks wise. I loved the story. I thought that 
 explore mode was a neat way of setting things up. I hated the fact that there were no cops. The 
 addition of perilascent paint had a spectacular effect on the customization of the car. I love 
 the drifting, I love the NOS, I love the races. Great graphics, not hard to learn, lots of different 
 kinds of races, and who could forget, the hot chick. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trebor22031982
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 14, 2007 2:05 am PT
Review:  NFS Underground introduced the world to tuner racing, and Underground 2 takes it deeper into the 
 world of street racing.
  Adding no less than two new modes (URL and Street X) , Underground 2 sets the level for future releases.
 
  The incredible addition of free roam allows players to travel the streets and learn where all 
 the shortcuts and hazard zones are before entering races.
  NFS Underground 2 sets the benchmark for future NFS releases, and still manages to impress, even 
 to this day.
  Still, the comic book style cutscene leaves a lot to be desired, and the opposing racers can be 
 ruthless at times, but with the new ability to recharge your nitrous through incredible moves, 
 staying in a straight line, could leave you losing power and the race. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazy_teo
Rating: 5
Date: May 1, 2007 1:32 am PT
Review:  November 12, 2004 - Overshadowed by the big three sequels this fall -- Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas, 
 Half-Life 2, and Halo 2 -- the world's best selling game in 2003 really isn't something that should 
 be ignored. Electronic Arts' Need for Speed Underground 2 is a huge makeover, improving on every 
 aspect of last year's version by building an impressive level of depth in every facet of play.
 
  
  An arcade racer by nature, NFSU2 expands into many new territories with a deep, complex progression 
 system. It builds out an impressive customization mode, lacking in last year's model, and furthers 
 its reach into America's trendy import tuner culture with the appropriate dialog, music, and the 
 addition, of all things, SUVs. The result is a startling 40-plus hour game that's well composed, 
 packed with aggresive AI, and is perhaps a little too big for its own good.
  
  Presentation and Progression
  Electronic Arts' massively expanded Need For Speed Underground 
 2 isn't a sequel in the normal sense of the word. Instead, it's a reinvention, derived from the 
 open model made popular by Rockstar's Grand Theft Auto series and racing-action games like Midtown 
 Madness and Midnight Club. Comprised of a five-part city, the fictitious urban center known as 
 Bayview is the imaginative ideal for midnight racing speedsters. It's open, large, and filled with 
 a half dozen racing types.
  
  Coal Harbor, City Core, Beacon Hill, Jackson Heights, and the Airport all provide distinct driving 
 opportunities for players looking for the same kinds of racing variety presented in Need for Speed 
 Underground. Only now, they're all tied into one thriving city. Beacon Hill, for instance, is superb 
 for drifting, while City Core includes an impressive and extensive freeway system connecting together 
 the whole city and giving gamers an excellent collection of drag racing and circuit courses to 
 boot. To get through the massive real estate of Bayview and to fulfill your destiny as an import 
 tuning master, you'll need to do several things, the first of which is racing: Win races and you'll 
 progress. But it's not just racing, it's the way you progress. The game encourages you to explore 
 its many nuances, to become a part of the lifestyle, and in many ways it rewards you for doing 
 so. There are strategically placed stacks of cash waiting to be collected, a few shortcuts here 
 and there -- though not nearly enough -- and glowing rings of color representing racing opportunities, 
 garages, and more.
  
  Street X and Drag races provide tough but worthwhile trial and error challenges.
  But if you 
 get bored, and you will because there isn't enough hidden stuff to keep your interest high, you 
 can drop out of the Career Mode's Explore mode and enter World Map. The difference is that Explore 
 mode enables you to drive freely about the city looking for races, getting lost in Out Run races 
 here, and being distracted by shops and garages there. The World Map presents the distilled version 
 of Explore Mode, giving you a menu, a list of races to beat, stats and Quit.
  
  I found this version of the Career mode interesting. It's a mode of great efficiency, skipping 
 the audio chat and the random encounters, which, to be honest, become tedious. It's this way because, 
 unlike GTA, where there are dozens of distractions, there are almost none in NFSU2. There are no 
 civilians, there aren't that many secrets, and the shortcuts are lacking. It makes me think that 
 EA had a hunch people might simply just want to race -- skipping the whole exploring business altogether. 
 I know that once I found this mode, I stopped exploring almost entirely. In that sense, the huge 
 city of Bayview is actually a big letdown.
  
  The manner in which you must beat NFSU2 is really interesting. It's based on winning races, earning 
 cash, earning a reputation, and by modding the hell out of your ride. You earn money by winning 
 races; lose money by losing races. You earn a reputation by winning races with a large margin between 
 you and the second place opponent. The more better reputation you earn, the greater the breadth 
 of sponsors you'll have, which means more free cars and more money. The more cash you have, the 
 more you can drop on your vehicle, which you shouldn't get too attached to because you'll eventually 
 have to, or may want to, trade it in. You can only fit five cars in your garage simultaneously.
 
  Your ride is measured by a Visual Rating of 10 stars. The more detailed your ride, the higher 
 the rating goes. Smartly, EA also tied in the visual rating to progression. For instance, you have 
 to reach a certain star quota to be on the cover of a magazine, which is a requirement of a sponsor. 
 It's all intelligently connected.
  
  So, if you just wanted to race, you'll find EA has plans for you to explore the import tuning culture 
 one way or another. But it's worth it. Honestly, I have little interest in modding cars. Here, 
 I was encouraged to have fun with it. While my first car was sleek and trim (foregoing anything 
 garish and too time-consuming) , my second car was flamboyant and colorful (OK, garish) , and creating 
 it was way more enjoyable.
  
  Last, you progress by completing a level (which consists of the requirements of the sponsor and 
 a few other races) . There are five overall and each one ups the difficulty of AI, and the rewards 
 of your sponsor always include a free car -- almost always faster and sleeker than the one you're 
 driving.
  
  In short, EA has managed to create one of the best, most robust and efficient progression systems 
 in this generation of racers -- even if the city itself feels like an empty shell. The details 
 are lengthy, so I'll be semi-brief: You can use a GPS system to find the race you want, the Dpad 
 is incredibly handy in showing a detailed map of races and garages, and the map's customizable 
 and visually easy to use. Having played a lot of Gran Turismo 3 A-spec and many other menu-heavy 
 racing games, this one comes up aces. Navigating this massive city and simply enabling you get 
 to all the stats, races, and spots you need to get to is great. Too bad the city itself isn't all 
 that interesting to explore. That, and I really wished there were more freeway exits. There were 
 so many times I was stuck on the freeway passing up a race spot, but I couldn't get off the freeway.
 
  
  The drag races have more obstacles, more chances to die.
  Off To The Races
  EA's 30-plus cars are good in some ways, bad in others. Several of the rides are quite desirable, 
 including the new Ford Mustang and the Nissan 350Z. But you'll have to wait and earn those. And 
 you'll have to seriously upgrade any vehicle to get a good sense of speed. That takes a while, 
 too. The other vehicles are just plain average and it's a wonder anyone would want to drive them. 
 Surely, some are classic mod specialties, but from a strict racing perspective, the Toyota Corolla? 
 Eck. Anyway, you'll start with the lower ranking set and, as you win, faster, more popular cars 
 appear.
  
  All of the cars in NFSU2 are licensed, from the Toyotas to the Nissans to the Hyundais and Cadillacs. 
 While from an import tuner perspective, the addition of SUVs and trucks might be kewl, driving 
 these beasts is an exercise in misery, sluggishness, and horrific handling. You might want to challenge 
 yourself with some of these, but you may also want to throw yourself off a cliff (and you can take 
 your Cadillac Navigator with you) .
  
  There are a half dozen race types, giving NFSU2 superb breadth and depth. There's Outrun (a pick-up 
 race in which you must ditch your opponent) , Street X (rough closed-circuit technical races) , Sprint 
 (one long race) , Circuits (multiple lap courses) , Drag (top speed straightaway runs) , Drift (point-based 
 technique races centered on sliding) , and Underground League, a set of random circuits.
  
  The Street X races are a mixture of skill and excitement, wanton rage and sheer trial and error 
 gameplay. The AI in Street X races is set to agro, which is fine, but they're cheap too. It's an 
 all-out smash-'em-up derby, and sometimes the randomness goes your way, other times not. The same 
 goes for the drag races. They are longer, have more stuff in them, and control with a more regimented 
 steering mechanism. You tap the Dpad to switch lanes, and when in one, you're loosely magnetized 
 to that lane. Instead of cross traffic there is oncoming traffic and roadblocks and random obstacles 
 are more commonplace. Sadly, there are no more jumps. It's different than NFS, but after a few 
 races, it's actually just as good. If you're familiar with the Need for Speed series, then the 
 way these cars handle won't surprise. There is a good mixture of arcade and realistic handling 
 in them all, but these cars are more realistic, more weighty, and less twitchy. The result is that 
 powerslides and drifts work better, and more skill is required to drive them well. Unfortunately, 
 in order for most of these rides to reach any satisfying levels of speed, you'll need to seriously 
 upgrade them. While EA's other racer, Burnout 3: Takedown, is a different kind of game, it needs 
 to be said that no racing game this year, including NFSU2, comes close to equaling its sense of 
 speed. So, no, it's not as fast as Burnout 3. Nothing is.
  
  On the other hand, even the worst cars here are capable of cool tricks, drifts, and slick powerslides. 
 There are few, if any racers in which you can pull into a 180 turn with the brake, slam down the 
 e-brake, and slide into a continuous rubber-burning 360 peelout. You can literally just pull off 
 donuts all day on any main street. It's sweet.
  
  Unlike several previous games in this series, there is no car damage (and no drivers in the vehicles) , 
 so driving can often careen into an exercise in laziness and dereliction. It's pretty sad. The 
 biggest consequence revolves around NOS. If you've bought NOS, you can then earn more by pulling 
 off moves -- powerslides, avoiding oncoming traffic, pulling off a clean section, getting air, 
 etc. If you smash into other cars and beat up your vehicle, you'll lose NOS. The biggest issue 
 with the default NOS is that it's used up so damn fast. But you can tune it to your liking. Also, 
 avoiding traffic earns you more NOS than a more skilled trick like powerslides, which seems wrong.
 
  
  One of the best parts of playing NFSU2 is its thoroughly conceived customization sections. There 
 are hundreds of exterior parts to apply to your ride and they're all easy to apply. The range of 
 parts is excessive -- spoilers, hoods, siding, mufflers, rims, spinners, window tinting, funky 
 trunks, speed dials, neon undercolors, five layers of decals, etc. -- it goes on and on. Nearly 
 all parts are unlocked due to winning races, and the newer, cooler version can be added as you 
 get deeper and deeper into the game. They all contribute to your Visual Rating, so they thankfully 
 tie into the best goals -- winning races.
  
  Your car = art? Just don't overdo the tear decals, buddy.
  The under-the-hood tuning is also 
 excessively good. Unlike last year's rather trite upgrade system, this one not only exists, but 
 you can tune your car in the Dyno Room and see instant realistic results. Street Racing Syndicate 
 did this first, but I think NFSU2 does it better. That's mainly because the car can be tested on 
 a track and then adjusted on the fly and brought back to dyno test again, and all of it is executed 
 quickly and easily.
  
  For the PS2, Xbox and PC, the online game is solid if predictable. You can get online with your 
 custom rides and race with as many as five other opponents simultaneously. There is very little 
 slowdown, the cars drive extremely well, and the voice chat is as good as it gets. All of the race 
 types are playable online too. The GameCube version is not online.
  
  Graphics
  Visually, NFSU2 improves upon its excellent looking original in every way, plus several little 
 bonuses sweeten the deal. At least that's true on the Xbox. The PS2 is a slight step down, thoug 
 it's still quite good looking, and the GameCube is a big step down, with a slower framerate that 
 affects gameplay. All of the consoles support widescreen 480p.
  
  The diversity of the city is impressive in both its art direction and architecture. Bayview is 
 an imaginary city, but if you look close it's a compilation of several cities you know. There are 
 bridges reminiscent of Seattle, a radio tower that looks like it's been stolen straight off Twin 
 Peaks, SF, and the city center area could easily be any major metropolitan center. Some houses 
 in Beacon Hill and Jackson Heights look like they've been snatched out of the Hollywood and Beverly 
 Hills.
  
  The lighting is excellent. NFSU had many dark patches, and this one makes up for that with cats 
 eyes and better sign placement. The cars all show realtime reflections off windows and exteriors, 
 and EA has made sure there is some kind of Chinatown section filled with bright flickering lights. 
 The game still takes place all at night again, but it's now during several times of the night. 
 So you've got early evening when the sun it setting, late night when the sky is pitch black, and 
 early dawn. The artistically handled skies and gorgeously imagined clouds help bring an additional 
 layer of realism and beauty to the game. The streets aren't always dark and wet now either (though 
 the patented dark wet streets are back) . The weather changes. Sometimes right in the middle of 
 a race, you'll hear thunder and then it starts pouring, which affects your handling. When you drive 
 beneath underpasses, you'll see the rain coming down in only those patches open to the sky. There 
 are no people on the streets, but trees sway in the background and cars independently drive by, 
 crash, stall and mill about the city. When you pull off donuts, clouds of smoke billow up behind 
 you. On the whole, EA's done an excellent job with the visuals on the PC and Xbox versions, and 
 to a certain extent, it's done as best it could on the PS2. Too bad about the Cube version.
  
  On the downside, there are several minor quibbles. The car models aren't that detailed. I'm 
 not sure what the polygon count for each car is, but this game won't win best car model awards 
 anytime soon. I could easily do without the cutscene crashes -- they just get in the way -- and 
 the graphic novel segues feel contrived and like an excuse for not having anything else. How many 
 times can we see the same painted image of Brooke Burke? I guess a freakin' lot.
  
  Sound
  As with the previous Underground, this year's model offers a cacophony of impactful sound 
 effects. Each car has its distinct gear revs, disinct idles, depth to its engine sounds, and distinct 
 tire-burning screeches. The gear switches sound thick and real. The crashes sound like real metal 
 twisting and windows shattering. And all of the little menu sounds, of ignition, keys turning, 
 gears clicking -- create a great feeling of power and car satisfaction.
  
  Brooke Burke's voice acting is state of the art Brooke Burke -- she's a no-nonsense car chick who 
 knows she's hot. She likes to talk about slamming, jamming and peeling, so someone's going to like 
 her work. As for the rest of the cast, I've now come to expect the sound of cool dudes that use 
 the most hip lingo around. I guess people talk like that, right? Yo! Know what I'm saying dawg? 
 Ugh...
  
  Customize the holy crap out of your car.
  The soundtrack is a collection of 27 songs, compiled on EA's Trax. They can be customized so you 
 can hear them in the menus, when racing, not at all, or at any time. You can hear them in sequential 
 or random order. I personally hadn't heard 90% of the songs, and the tunes like Snapcase's Skeptic, 
 Skindred's Nobody and SpiderBait's Black Betty got the off switch from me. I don't know, is this 
 what the kids are listening to now? I mean, even Snoop Dogg's Doors remix of Riders on the Storm 
 (Fredwreck Remix) was pretty damn bad. And it's not like I haven't heard that song a million times 
 already. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sharier
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 11, 2007 2:01 pm PT
Review:  This installment of NFS Underground comes with a package of a bigger cityscape, intense cop chases 
 and a host of addictive races. The NFS series had previously put cops as a thrill factor -- but 
 they spiced it maximum in this game. As a result often a race would jump to a run-for-life chase. 
 You can't avoid the chases as one of the criterion to move up to the next level chases is to increase 
 your bounty points by breaking laws, and thereby inviting cops to chase you till your heat level 
 shoot higher and higher. The need for speed in this game, is indeed the need for speed.
  The different types of races here are also designed with progressively higher level of difficulty. 
 Sometimes you won't win these races at the first attempt. As a result, you would play this game 
 longer than the previous underground installment, and off course the past NFS games. I feel that 
 the developers had a sense of a complete set of underground races that was brewing in the first 
 underground installment. If advertisements of Cingular mobiles don't bug you (it did not bug me) , 
 I see no minus points in this game. The graphics are good as usual and the musics are cool. Overall 
 its a 100 percent entertainment with long playable value. Mind you the game is easy in the beginning 
 and gets progressively very hard in the end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alkpaz
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 21, 2007 11:59 pm PT
Review:  I have to admit I really don't like racing games.. but somehow I decided to give NFSU2 a shot since 
 it had my car.. true the first NFSU had the 350Z but it didn't offer the open-endedness I enjoyed 
 here. I do own a 04 350Z so being able to race it safely without having to wear down my own vehicle 
 is a blessing. Also the accuracy of the game is pretty good.. aside from the fact that the game 
 does not give damage or scratch marks to the vehicle.. the game is meant to be fun. The base model 
 of the cars are very accurate and only change when you add new equipment.. many people feel that 
 the NFS series does not give true representation.. this is NOT true.. I have seen that on manual 
 transmission my 350Z, on first gear, is the same speed as it is in the game.. where lies the inaccuracy? 
 The no damage from the vehicle models? Okay that is the only thing that is justifiable. But the 
 ability to go where you want and drag race cars on the streets without having to go through missions 
 is a big plus. It adds a sense of reality to the game.. To tell you the truth, reality based car 
 games isn't my thing.. I want to forget about having to repair my vehicle because it got damaged 
 etc. Sure this weakens the reality portion.. but who the heck wants to travel back to a shop to 
 fix your car in a game?! Oh lets make it more realistic by charging gas.. and replacing tires etc.. 
 yeah FUN! count me out.. that aint my beat.
  
  NFSU2 provides hundreds of hours of entertainment and is a long game to boot.. that is if you try 
 to get that 100% completed percentage. The gameplay for me is perfect.. I love the game and have 
 no difficulty playing it.. it is bug free (with the patch) and is a joy to play every once in a 
 while if you so wish.
  
  Graphics: The game has suprisingly good graphics even by today's standards.. the game has aged 
 very well.. and I still love the atmosphere.. :)
  
  Sound: Perfect.. the soundtrack is just excellent.. as is the tire/engine sounds
  
  I give 
 this game a straight up 9 because although I enjoy the game immensely I do see a similarity to 
 many races... but after all the game takes place in one city.. within different subdivisions.. 
 so the repeating tracks may just be why that is so.
  
  This game is definately worth my time, and to anyone who may not be interested in racing games. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paulitis
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 19, 2007 7:06 am PT
Review:  First Need For Speed game where you can drive in Free Run. To get in some race you need to drive 
 around the city from point A to Z. Cars are like Nissan 350Z, Peugeot 206, Audi TT, Toyota Corolla 
 and much more. My favourite car is Toyota Corolla.
  
  Graphic is worser worse than first Underground. Thear again the CARDBOARD BOXES. Gameplay is so 
 lame again be the city Street Racing King or something like it. No police i think this Need For 
 Speed is the most broken NFS in the history of NFS only two good things first - Free Run, second 
 - Good music and sound. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pentit
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 17, 2007 2:06 am PT
Review:  For everyone who likes races and tuning a car, this is the game for you. In this game you will 
 find everything necessary for tuning your car.
  The game is full of races which is followed by pictures for magazines, sponsorship etc. While you 
 playing the game, you will notice that is based on the movie 2FAST2FURIOUS. The sound of engine 
 it's simply going through
  your skin. Maybe they could just add some better cars like, Honda NSX or some BMW, but never mind, 
 once you start the game, you'll never want to turn it off.
  
  Graphic is very good as well as the sound which is some hip-hop and some rock. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sexyskyline08
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 12, 2007 10:12 am PT
Review:  This is one of the first Need for Speed games that I actually enjoyed since the first ones. I never 
 bought the Need for Speed Underground but if it is as good as this one is then it is also worth 
 the money. I have always been a sucker for tuner cars and street racing. Ever since I can remember 
 I have been sucked into the race world and the fancy cars. This game lets you picks cars which 
 are about moderate speed, some being a little faster than others, and then you can modify it to 
 the max. You can upgrade the performance, pick out body kits, and pick so many different paints 
 and vinyls that it will make your head spin. The racing is a bit easy but just the free roam is 
 fun enough. The graphics are a little shabby but the game is a little old now. Overall this game 
 has really caught my attention and I hope others enjoyed it as much as I have!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slayer_Sam
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 23, 2007 3:27 am PT
Review:  Sometimes these strange mental associations are strong while playing EA's games and perhaps the 
 strongest when playing any of their sports games. EA can often spot and launch a winner, but for 
 every winner they make, they dish out three expansions and a watered down sequel that makes it 
 quite clear to everyone what their long-term goal is in regards to the initially exciting and successful 
 franchise.
  
  Still miracles do happen in life and I'll be the first to admit that for once, this strange association 
 in my brain that connects EA's games to cows doesn't hold true. No, sir. I'll go out on a limb 
 right away and say that Need for Speed Underground 2 is a game superior in every way to its predecessor. 
 The franchise itself takes a very original turn, although the way in which it does it is not particularly 
 original, as we had seen it applied with great success in games like Grand Theft Auto, Mafia and 
 the likes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jeromesyroyal
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 21, 2007 5:53 am PT
Review:  This of NFSU 2 series Version for the games like American Racing tltle to be continued like american
 
  royal choroQ racing, American of racing it is American Royal Cup
  Racing by world games creator of angel racing of america royal of
  For Example Disney 1970's, 
 Disney Recess, Disney The Proud Family, Disney's Kim Possible and Disney American Dragon Jake Long 
 game like powerful cars racers like power &amp; toque race cars popular games greatest disney's 
 choroQ series for ps2 only not ps1 help how to be royal cup race is very hard if finished at Final 
 Due is master (level 6) difficulty
  racing choroQ amazing cars 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dom84ts
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 19, 2007 6:04 am PT
Review:  This is not a Need for Speed game!! They used the name but is totally different from a Need for 
 Speed hot pursuit or Porche!!!
  
  But the game is quite good!
  
  Audio: Soundtrack good nice songs
  Graphics: good! maybe i expected something more.
  Game play: 
 Easy to play really nice to create your own car spending money! maybe prices could be more realistics!
 
  
  AI could be developed greater maybe! Some times the challengers are a bit dumb :) !!
  Good game to spend some hours making and driving at high speeds!
  
  ----&gt;&gt; see also reviews 
 of Need for speed Most Wanted and Carbon 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryan4u
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 13, 2007 7:57 am PT
Review:  Introduction:
  
  Need For Speed: Underground 2 is the latest game in the acclaimed Need For Speed series by EA Games, 
 and is a direct sequel to Need For Speed: Underground.
  
  This game and its predecessor are very different from the other games in the series, mainly since 
 these two games do not use exotic cars like Ferraris or Porsches, but instead uses urban street 
 cars from manufacturers such as Nissan, Mitsubishi, Honda, etc.
  
  Also, the theme of Underground is basically a view of what the underground street racing society 
 is like, which is a huge difference compared to the previous games in the series, which featured 
 competing in exotic locations while using exotic cars.
  
  This handheld version of the game obviously has both pros and cons, most or all of which will be 
 covered throughout this entire review.
  
  If you got the first NFS: U game on the GBA, you'll find that Underground 2 is very similar, if 
 not the same, to the first game, like it's only an upgrade of sorts.
  
  Obviously, there are some things that are new to this sequel. Some cars that have not been added 
 from the console version to the handheld version of the first game are now in this sequel. To make 
 up for the cars missing from the first game, cars that are new to the series replace them, and 
 fortunately, most happen to perform well in the game. But unfortunately though, SUVs are not included 
 in this version of the game. As for game modes, sadly, Sprint has been taken out, but is replaced 
 by three new modes which will be familiar to those who have played the console versions of the 
 first game, and a new Mini Games section, which will have 4 mini games, all of which will have 
 the theme of testing things in a car. Also, you can now view your statistics for the game, which 
 will include things like mileage, driving style, and more. Oh, and to unlock new cars and performance 
 upgrades, you need to exchange points that are earned by beating a new event.
  
  Controls are exactly the same as the first game, minus the Advanced Manual Transmission setting, 
 so those of you who have played the first game shouldn't have any problems with the controls in 
 this game. You'll see what I mean when you can easily score at least 10,000 points within a few 
 laps in a Drift Race.
  
  The game's difficulty has been refined a bit, and no, I mean that in a negative way. This time 
 around, you CAN'T choose the difficulty level; the CPU racers will always rival your current car's 
 performance settings, and sometimes, its visual settings also. Even trying to finish Go Underground's 
 Level 3 Circuit events won't present that much of a challenge, even with a fully tuned-up Volkswagen 
 Golf, trying to pass Nissan Skylines and such. The good (or maybe the worse) thing about this, 
 is that the traffic which you probably hated in the first game have finally passed their driving 
 test and are now driving on the roads along with you, making for some unexpected collisions and 
 spinouts in almost all modes except for Drift. Yup, it's in all 4 Drag Tracks. Oh, and did I mention 
 shortcuts and jumps in tracks?
  
  Overall, gameplay will test your racing skills and it's definitely fun smoking the CPU racers and/or 
 your friends.
  
  No!! The Go Underground Mode has been totally destroyed by replacing the ranked races with some 
 event races in which you keep racing against Duke, Steele, and Swift! And obviously, the unique 
 racer names and their ability to have a rematch with you has been taken away. The events can also 
 get somewhat repetitive and boring, though. The one good thing I can say about Go Underground is 
 that the Mini Game events that occur tend to be challenging, keeping you focused for about 3 to 
 6 minutes or so, depending on the type of Mini Game.
  
  The screenshots of the game that I've been seeing gave me a reason to get this game, and not just 
 because Brooke Burke replaced Melissa on the downloadable PC wallpaper title screen, but because 
 of how the graphics looked better in comparison to the first game. Some people may still say that 
 the tracks' graphics are still blurry as the first, but you'll find that you're not crashing into 
 walls often, unless you're like me and you just crash into them for fun. A more notable difference 
 is that car graphics and design look more like their real-life counterpart.
  
  The game's music is downright bad, being similar to music from past NFS games like High Stakes. 
 It doesn't fully use the GBA's capacity to produce above average sound quality, unlike the first 
 game, whose music is almost exactly like the real thing, save some few verses here and there. It's 
 a pity that I actually had my hopes up for slightly improved sound quality on real music made by 
 real artists. I guess we were all better off listening to the repetitive tune of Lil' Jon and the 
 Eastside Boyz f. Ying Yang Twins' Get Low in the first game.
  
  As for the game's sound effects, yes, that annoying screeching noise that you hear when you turn 
 is still there. The sound effect of when you shift gears doesn't bother me as much as that horrible 
 screeching noise.
  
  The time to finish this depends on how good a racer you are and how much time you are willing to 
 spend on it. Two to three days is a rough estimate, since all you have to do is beat Go Underground 
 Mode and set some record times in Race Now mode.
  
  As for replayability, once you finish Go Underground Mode, you can go for random races or races 
 that you can set up in Race Now, set some unbeatable high scores in the mini games, and the Multiplayer 
 option should keep you engaged for a long while. But then again, if you like to torture yourself 
 through seemingly repetitive events, start over from scratch and beat Go Underground Mode a second 
 time.
  
  Need For Speed: Underground 2 has its own fair share of pros and cons, but if you want the best 
 portable racer out so far with you, then you should definitely get this game. You had better not 
 trade this one off by accident... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: I_Am_A_KING-
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 3, 2007 5:49 am PT
Review:  Well as other ppl have said THIS GAME ROCKS!!!!! The music is good, gameplay is good, graphics 
 are good, Its just an awsome game!!!!
  
  The sound and music in this game are really good (How could you not like XZIBIT, Chingy, The doors, 
 etc.) Also, the cars have a real nice sound to them.
  
  Graphics = The graphics in this game look real nice, there was a lot of detail put into the cars 
 and free - roaming world.
  
  Gamplay = OK now for all those ppl who say Theres nothing to do in between races You could always 
 outrun someone or find a hidden race and do that!!!
  
  The value of this game is definetly worth it!!
  
  So in the end...
  
  BUY THIS GAME AND 
 ENJOY IT!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ready2freeze
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 17, 2006 1:31 pm PT
Review:  I have been playing this game for a while now and i think that it is not bad. The gamemakers could 
 have made it more interesting and the story a bit better.
  I must say that the graphics are really poor.
  And also, it takes some time to find the shops 
 that are not on the map. And there is no objective, you have these races scattered all over the 
 map and you actually don't know if you are progressing the game at all.
  I am very experienced in racing games so i know what i am talking about.
  
  But to those who 
 want a challage, its worth playing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mtrack0
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 12, 2006 6:48 pm PT
Review:  Need for Speed Underground 2 is a huge makeover, improving on every aspect of last year's version 
 by building an impressive level of depth in every facet of play.
  
  An arcade racer by nature, NFSU2 expands into many new territories with a deep, complex progression 
 system. It builds out an impressive customization mode, lacking in last year's model, and furthers 
 its reach into America's trendy import tuner culture with the appropriate dialog, music, and the 
 addition, of all things, SUVs. The result is a startling 40-plus hour game that's well composed, 
 packed with aggresive AI, and is perhaps a little too big for its own good.
  
  Presentation and Progression
  Electronic Arts' massively expanded Need For Speed Underground 
 2 isn't a sequel in the normal sense of the word. Instead, it's a reinvention, derived from the 
 open model made popular by Rockstar's Grand Theft Auto series and racing-action games like Midtown 
 Madness and Midnight Club. Comprised of a five-part city, the fictitious urban center known as 
 Bayview is the imaginative ideal for midnight racing speedsters. It's open, large, and filled with 
 a half dozen racing types. Coal Harbor, City Core, Beacon Hill, Jackson Heights, and the Airport 
 all provide distinct driving opportunities for players looking for the same kinds of racing variety 
 presented in Need for Speed Underground. Only now, they're all tied into one thriving city. Beacon 
 Hill, for instance, is superb for drifting, while City Core includes an impressive and extensive 
 freeway system connecting together the whole city and giving gamers an excellent collection of 
 drag racing and circuit courses to boot. To get through the massive real estate of Bayview and 
 to fulfill your destiny as an import tuning master, you'll need to do several things, the first 
 of which is racing: Win races and you'll progress. But it's not just racing, it's the way you progress. 
 The game encourages you to explore its many nuances, to become a part of the lifestyle, and in 
 many ways it rewards you for doing so. There are strategically placed stacks of cash waiting to 
 be collected, a few shortcuts here and there -- though not nearly enough -- and glowing rings of 
 color representing racing opportunities, garages, and more.
  
  Street X and Drag races provide tough but worthwhile trial and error challenges. But if you get 
 bored, and you will because there isn't enough hidden stuff to keep your interest high, you can 
 drop out of the Career Mode's Explore mode and enter World Map. The difference is that Explore 
 mode enables you to drive freely about the city looking for races, getting lost in Out Run races 
 here, and being distracted by shops and garages there. The World Map presents the distilled version 
 of Explore Mode, giving you a menu, a list of races to beat, stats and Quit.
  
  I found this version of the Career mode interesting. It's a mode of great efficiency, skipping 
 the audio chat and the random encounters, which, to be honest, become tedious. It's this way because, 
 unlike GTA, where there are dozens of distractions, there are almost none in NFSU2. There are no 
 civilians, there aren't that many secrets, and the shortcuts are lacking. It makes me think that 
 EA had a hunch people might simply just want to race -- skipping the whole exploring business altogether. 
 I know that once I found this mode, I stopped exploring almost entirely. In that sense, the huge 
 city of Bayview is actually a big letdown. The manner in which you must beat NFSU2 is really interesting. 
 It's based on winning races, earning cash, earning a reputation, and by modding the hell out of 
 your ride. You earn money by winning races; lose money by losing races. You earn a reputation by 
 winning races with a large margin between you and the second place opponent. The more better reputation 
 you earn, the greater the breadth of sponsors you'll have, which means more free cars and more 
 money. The more cash you have, the more you can drop on your vehicle, which you shouldn't get too 
 attached to because you'll eventually have to, or may want to, trade it in. You can only fit five 
 cars in your garage simultaneously.
  Your ride is measured by a Visual Rating of 10 stars. The more detailed your ride, the higher the 
 rating goes. Smartly, EA also tied in the visual rating to progression. For instance, you have 
 to reach a certain star quota to be on the cover of a magazine, which is a requirement of a sponsor. 
 It's all intelligently connected.
  
  So, if you just wanted to race, you'll find EA has plans for you to explore the import tuning culture 
 one way or another. But it's worth it. Honestly, I have little interest in modding cars. Here, 
 I was encouraged to have fun with it. While my first car was sleek and trim (foregoing anything 
 garish and too time-consuming) , my second car was flamboyant and colorful (OK, garish) , and creating 
 it was way more enjoyable.
  
  Last, you progress by completing a level (which consists of the requirements of the sponsor and 
 a few other races) . There are five overall and each one ups the difficulty of AI, and the rewards 
 of your sponsor always include a free car -- almost always faster and sleeker than the one you're 
 driving. In short, EA has managed to create one of the best, most robust and efficient progression 
 systems in this generation of racers -- even if the city itself feels like an empty shell. The 
 details are lengthy, so I'll be semi-brief: You can use a GPS system to find the race you want, 
 the Dpad is incredibly handy in showing a detailed map of races and garages, and the map's customizable 
 and visually easy to use. Having played a lot of Gran Turismo 3 A-spec and many other menu-heavy 
 racing games, this one comes up aces. Navigating this massive city and simply enabling you get 
 to all the stats, races, and spots you need to get to is great. Too bad the city itself isn't all 
 that interesting to explore. That, and I really wished there were more freeway exits. There were 
 so many times I was stuck on the freeway passing up a race spot, but I couldn't get off the freeway.
 
  
  The drag races have more obstacles, more chances to die. Off To The Races
  EA's 30-plus cars are good in some ways, bad in others. Several of the rides are quite desirable, 
 including the new Ford Mustang and the Nissan 350Z. But you'll have to wait and earn those. And 
 you'll have to seriously upgrade any vehicle to get a good sense of speed. That takes a while, 
 too. The other vehicles are just plain average and it's a wonder anyone would want to drive them. 
 Surely, some are classic mod specialties, but from a strict racing perspective, the Toyota Corolla? 
 Eck. Anyway, you'll start with the lower ranking set and, as you win, faster, more popular cars 
 appear. All of the cars in NFSU2 are licensed, from the Toyotas to the Nissans to the Hyundais 
 and Cadillacs. While from an import tuner perspective, the addition of SUVs and trucks might be 
 kewl, driving these beasts is an exercise in misery, sluggishness, and horrific handling. You might 
 want to challenge yourself with some of these, but you may also want to throw yourself off a cliff 
 (and you can take your Cadillac Navigator with you) .
  
  There are a half dozen race types, giving NFSU2 superb breadth and depth. There's Outrun (a pick-up 
 race in which you must ditch your opponent) , Street X (rough closed-circuit technical races) , Sprint 
 (one long race) , Circuits (multiple lap courses) , Drag (top speed straightaway runs) , Drift (point-based 
 technique races centered on sliding) , and Underground League, a set of random circuits. The Street 
 X races are a mixture of skill and excitement, wanton rage and sheer trial and error gameplay. 
 The AI in Street X races is set to agro, which is fine, but they're cheap too. It's an all-out 
 smash-'em-up derby, and sometimes the randomness goes your way, other times not. The same goes 
 for the drag races. They are longer, have more stuff in them, and control with a more regimented 
 steering mechanism. You tap the Dpad to switch lanes, and when in one, you're loosely magnetized 
 to that lane. Instead of cross traffic there is oncoming traffic and roadblocks and random obstacles 
 are more commonplace. Sadly, there are no more jumps. It's different than NFS, but after a few 
 races, it's actually just as good. If you're familiar with the Need for Speed series, then the 
 way these cars handle won't surprise. There is a good mixture of arcade and realistic handling 
 in them all, but these cars are more realistic, more weighty, and less twitchy. The result is that 
 powerslides and drifts work better, and more skill is required to drive them well. Unfortunately, 
 in order for most of these rides to reach any satisfying levels of speed, you'll need to seriously 
 upgrade them. While EA's other racer, Burnout 3: Takedown, is a different kind of game, it needs 
 to be said that no racing game this year, including NFSU2, comes close to equaling its sense of 
 speed. So, no, it's not as fast as Burnout 3. Nothing is.
  
  On the other hand, even the worst cars here are capable of cool tricks, drifts, and slick powerslides. 
 There are few, if any racers in which you can pull into a 180 turn with the brake, slam down the 
 e-brake, and slide into a continuous rubber-burning 360 peelout. You can literally just pull off 
 donuts all day on any main street. It's sweet.
  
  Unlike several previous games in this series, there is no car damage (and no drivers in the vehicles) , 
 so driving can often careen into an exercise in laziness and dereliction. It's pretty sad. The 
 biggest consequence revolves around NOS. If you've bought NOS, you can then earn more by pulling 
 off moves -- powerslides, avoiding oncoming traffic, pulling off a clean section, getting air, 
 etc. If you smash into other cars and beat up your vehicle, you'll lose NOS. The biggest issue 
 with the default NOS is that it's used up so damn fast. But you can tune it to your liking. Also, 
 avoiding traffic earns you more NOS than a more skilled trick like powerslides, which seems wrong. 
 One of the best parts of playing NFSU2 is its thoroughly conceived customization sections. There 
 are hundreds of exterior parts to apply to your ride and they're all easy to apply. The range of 
 parts is excessive -- spoilers, hoods, siding, mufflers, rims, spinners, window tinting, funky 
 trunks, speed dials, neon undercolors, five layers of decals, etc. -- it goes on and on. Nearly 
 all parts are unlocked due to winning races, and the newer, cooler version can be added as you 
 get deeper and deeper into the game. They all contribute to your Visual Rating, so they thankfully 
 tie into the best goals -- winning races.
  
  Your car = art? Just don't overdo the tear decals, buddy. The under-the-hood tuning is also excessively 
 good. Unlike last year's rather trite upgrade system, this one not only exists, but you can tune 
 your car in the Dyno Room and see instant realistic results. Street Racing Syndicate did this first, 
 but I think NFSU2 does it better. That's mainly because the car can be tested on a track and then 
 adjusted on the fly and brought back to dyno test again, and all of it is executed quickly and 
 easily.
  
  For the PS2, Xbox and PC, the online game is solid if predictable. You can get online with your 
 custom rides and race with as many as five other opponents simultaneously. There is very little 
 slowdown, the cars drive extremely well, and the voice chat is as good as it gets. All of the race 
 types are playable online too. The GameCube version is not online.
  
  Graphics
  Visually, NFSU2 improves upon its excellent looking original in every way, plus several little 
 bonuses sweeten the deal. At least that's true on the Xbox. The PS2 is a slight step down, thoug 
 it's still quite good looking, and the GameCube is a big step down, with a slower framerate that 
 affects gameplay. All of the consoles support widescreen 480p. The diversity of the city is impressive 
 in both its art direction and architecture. Bayview is an imaginary city, but if you look close 
 it's a compilation of several cities you know. There are bridges reminiscent of Seattle, a radio 
 tower that looks like it's been stolen straight off Twin Peaks, SF, and the city center area could 
 easily be any major metropolitan center. Some houses in Beacon Hill and Jackson Heights look like 
 they've been snatched out of the Hollywood and Beverly Hills. The lighting is excellent. NFSU had 
 many dark patches, and this one makes up for that with cats eyes and better sign placement. The 
 cars all show realtime reflections off windows and exteriors, and EA has made sure there is some 
 kind of Chinatown section filled with bright flickering lights. The game still takes place all 
 at night again, but it's now during several times of the night. So you've got early evening when 
 the sun it setting, late night when the sky is pitch black, and early dawn. The artistically handled 
 skies and gorgeously imagined clouds help bring an additional layer of realism and beauty to the 
 game. The streets aren't always dark and wet now either (though the patented dark wet streets are 
 back) . The weather changes. Sometimes right in the middle of a race, you'll hear thunder and then 
 it starts pouring, which affects your handling. When you drive beneath underpasses, you'll see 
 the rain coming down in only those patches open to the sky. There are no people on the streets, 
 but trees sway in the background and cars independently drive by, crash, stall and mill about the 
 city. When you pull off donuts, clouds of smoke billow up behind you. On the whole, EA's done an 
 excellent job with the visuals on the PC and Xbox versions, and to a certain extent, it's done 
 as best it could on the PS2. Too bad about the Cube version.
  
  On the downside, there are several minor quibbles. The car models aren't that detailed. I'm not 
 sure what the polygon count for each car is, but this game won't win best car model awards anytime 
 soon. I could easily do without the cutscene crashes -- they just get in the way -- and the graphic 
 novel segues feel contrived and like an excuse for not having anything else. How many times can 
 we see the same painted image of Brooke Burke? I guess a freakin' lot.
  
  Sound
  As with the previous Underground, this year's model offers a cacophony of impactful sound effects. 
 Each car has its distinct gear revs, disinct idles, depth to its engine sounds, and distinct tire-burning 
 screeches. The gear switches sound thick and real. The crashes sound like real metal twisting and 
 windows shattering. And all of the little menu sounds, of ignition, keys turning, gears clicking 
 -- create a great feeling of power and car satisfaction.
  
  Brooke Burke's voice acting is state of the art Brooke Burke -- she's a no-nonsense car chick who 
 knows she's hot. She likes to talk about slamming, jamming and peeling, so someone's going to like 
 her work. As for the rest of the cast, I've now come to expect the sound of cool dudes that use 
 the most hip lingo around. I guess people talk like that, right? Yo! Know what I'm saying dawg? 
 Ugh... Customize the holy crap out of your car. The soundtrack is a collection of 27 songs, compiled 
 on EA's Trax. They can be customized so you can hear them in the menus, when racing, not at all, 
 or at any time. You can hear them in sequential or random order. I personally hadn't heard 90% 
 of the songs, and the tunes like Snapcase's Skeptic, Skindred's Nobody and SpiderBait's Black Betty 
 got the off switch from me. I don't know, is this what the kids are listening to now? I mean, even 
 Snoop Dogg's Doors remix of Riders on the Storm (Fredwreck Remix) was pretty damn bad. And it's 
 not like I haven't heard that song a million times already. NFSU2 supports Pro Logic I &amp; II 
 for Cube and PS2, and Dolby 5.1 surround sound for Xbox.
  
  Closing Comments
  While NFSU2 contains some aspects of its predecessor, several major changes make a significantly 
 different game. The world is massive and open, filled with many more courses that before. The progression 
 scheme is complex and you'll find yourself winning to earn money so you can spend it on modding 
 the heck out of your car over and over again. The cars are more weighty and a little more realistic 
 too, requiring a little more skill from the driver. The sad part is that the huge city is actually 
 perhaps too huge for its own good. You'll grow bored driving around the mostly empty streets, and 
 once you collect the small quantity of Info letters, find the few shortcuts, and open up the garages, 
 there's not much left. The Outrun races ARE fun, but some of them can last up to 15 minutes, and 
 if you want to progress, you're simply going to have to wait.
  
  In all, NFSU2 is an impressive, and more importantly, fun game that overcomes its faults with depth, 
 breadth, and variety 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EcnirP_PrincE
Rating: 7.6
Date: Dec 5, 2006 6:58 am PT
Review:  The next part of NEED FOR SPEED UNDERGROUND is as good as its predecessor and even more easier. 
 If you are a racing fanatic then it is a game for you .It has got a very appealing modeling of 
 the cars .The only thing I liked about this game was its modeling&amp;#8212; it has all that you 
 need paints , vinyls , body kits , bumpers , spoilers , everything . One main problem with this 
 game is that its too easy and too long .By the way long means more races and hence more wins .It 
 has introduced the outrun and the free-roam concept . I liked the free-roam concept more than anything 
 . The most difficult race of this game is the STREETX which is not at all difficult . I have some 
 tips for all those playing it the first time -----If you need more booster at the start of the race 
 then just press the booster button at the starting line and you will get a little for spray show 
 , in outrun races use the bridge for convenience . When the opponent is at a distance of 50 metres 
 or less then change the track and you will get an excellent chance to win .Don&amp;#8217; t leave 
 the outrun races as you can get a lot of unique parts from the opponents. Try to get to the hidden 
 shops early as you can get the newly unlocked parts there . There also many hidden races which 
 can be raced in free-roam or from the world map in garage . In drag races try to earn booster by 
 drafting after opponents then you can have more booster and can use it in the end to win the race. On 
 the whole the game is average. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeeJayInphinity
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 29, 2006 9:20 pm PT
Review:  Need for Speed: Underground 2 is an arcade racing game that focuses on the tunning end of the racing 
 scene. It's fun and addicting at first, but once you get near the end, you will be wondering why 
 you're still playing. First of all, the story is.. I don't know, there really isn't a story there. 
 There is one character in the game, Brooke. Everyone else is forgettable. Throughout the game you 
 see cutscenes where the game puts a picture on the screen and the actor talks. It looks cheap, 
 it's not really a good way to tell a story. There is no story, though. Once you get your first 
 car, you have a choice of which race to go to first. You don't even have to race, if you don't 
 want to. You can mess around, look for the shops, or race other drivers around the area for money. 
 Your goal there is to overtake the other driver and create a distance of at least 1,000 feet between 
 you and the other driver. You start those races by coming up behind the driver and pressing Up 
 on the D-pad. The driver will call you, throw cheesy insults at you, and you begin the race right 
 there and then. There are no set courses, you can go anywhere within the city. It's very easy to 
 exploit that system because the AI will accept a challenge even when you fish-tail them, causing 
 them to face the wrong way from the beginning of the race making it very easy to win, especially 
 if you nos your way out of the area. Some of those overtake races can last just a few seconds. 
 But it's easy money so I wont complain. ;)
  
  The other races can be a little harder. There are a bunch to choose from; Drift, Static X, Sprint, 
 Drag, Circuit and URL. Sprint races are my favorite. Most of the tracks are well done. My least 
 favorite are street X and Drag races. Street x races take place in a closed course, a very small 
 course, actually. They are very similar to the courses designed for Go-Karts. That's why they're 
 so annoying. What's worse is that the AI isn't very good at all. Sometimes it will fish-tail you 
 as you turn into a corner, sometimes it will accidentally push you onto a wall, causing both of 
 you to nearly lose the race. All of that can get annoying really fast. Since the AI is stupid, 
 you spend most of your races in 1st place. I've actually never lost a race before, my win percentage 
 is still 100%. It's not that I'm not saving the game when I lose a race, I just haven't lost a 
 race. That's the problem with this game, it's very easy. At the same time, though, the traffic 
 can make racing a real drag. It gets in the way so much, I almost wish it wasn't there. I say almost 
 because when you spend most of the race 10 seconds ahead of your competition, you need something 
 to keep you entertained. The car selection is bad. You can unlock a 3000Gt, a Skyline, a Mustang 
 GT, and GTO, and a few other cars but that's it. It's really bad, especially considering that this 
 is EA, I'm sure they can get more licences than this. OH and especially when you take all of the 
 money they got from the advertising into account. There's a bunch of Best Buy stores everywhere, 
 BurgerKing joints, and there's a huge friggen cingular man symbol on the screen. They could've 
 used that money to get more car licences. Where are the Ferraris, and the Porches, and the Aston 
 Martins? ANd please don't tell me that this game is only for street racers, because there's a Navigator 
 in the game. What the hell is that? SUVs? In a racing game? Okay, whatever. Another really annoying 
 thing about this game is the amount of ghettoness in it. Every single character in the game talks 
 exactly the same. The voices are different, but the dialog is basically the same. YO DAWG, BETTER 
 READ THE MANUAL BEFORE.. YO DAWG, YOU WANNA RACE IN THAT PIECE OF JUNK? It gets on my nerves, this 
 game tries to be street way too hard. There's too much slang. On top of that, every character hates 
 you. They do! They all insult you, including Brooke's character. She seems like your friend at 
 first, she even lends you her car for a while. But when you race, she turns into a jerk. She insults 
 your racing ability, and she disses your ride. Every character is like that. You're a n00b at racing 
 and so get ready to lose your 'purse' That's what you hear throughout the game. The music is just 
 as bad. There aren't that many tracks to speak of, and you're going to hear each song about a million 
 times before the game ends. I suggest you turn it off like I did and listen to your own music. 
 By the way, this game doesn't support custom soundtracks, so you will have to open Winamp or whatever 
 player you use in the background and listen to music that way. The rest of the sounds are good, 
 though. The car engines sound good, and the crashes sound good as well. You can easily tell when 
 a car is tuned-up, just in real life. As you race, you will hear the engine roar and the turbo 
 kick in. It's that good, but the music and the spoken dialog are what really bring the sound's 
 score down a lot.
  
  At the end of the day, this game is fun for a little while, but you get tired of it. There aren't 
 that many cars, there's no story, the races get old and easy and the dialog is annoying. Rent this 
 game, and move on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Soni-Street
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 25, 2006 5:48 am PT
Review:  When I picked up this game, I imideatly felt the engine difference from Underground to Underground 
 2. The graphics where good for the year the game came out... of course we are not going to compare 
 with DOOM III graphics engine, because the marine doesn't run 270 miles per hour. Like any other 
 NFS game, this one too has awesome soundtrack, of course with the racing flavor, from the genres 
 of Hip-Hop, Electronic and Rock. The FX sounds are great from the really good Nitrous boost to 
 the awesomely rocking turbo shot. This game should run smoothly on computers old up to 5 years, 
 thanks to the graphics engine this game runs it's frames quite smoothly. The handling of the rides 
 is pretty realistic, expect for the drift in the normal races... EA keeps on forgetting that cars 
 can drift even when they are not on drift-tracks , and they keep forgetting that FWDs can't drift... 
 since when can a Honda Civic FF drift? I'm writing this review after NFS - CARBON is released (check 
 out my review) , and they still haven't learned that... and we might as well give up on those hopes. 
 The races are fun, the best part is that there is a lot of traffic on the roads making the game 
 feel more alive and intense, It's great fun trying to pass on-coming cars as close as possible. 
 There are a lot of different races from circuits and drifts to drags and sprints. It's a lot better 
 from the first Underground and has a lot of cars to choose from, and a great parts purchasing system 
 and tuning. Cool parts have been introduced like gauges, lambo-doors, hydraulics, spinners and 
 a lot more which makes a good icing on the cake. All in all... this is a great game, I put this 
 somewhere in the BEST OF NFS pile, which are few. EA deserves a pat on the shoulder for this one. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djdevon101
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 25, 2006 7:42 pm PT
Review:  love the grafix and the customization is unbelievable but the customization gets a little better 
 than need for speed underground but gets carried away when it comes to racing because it gets to 
 doors spinners you can get suvs and that gets you really carried away but when you get on the road 
 and start racing it all pays off the new racing modes are good but its still tracked races and 
 not free street racing i bot when it was 30 bucks but now that its cheaper you definitely got to 
 get it because itll grow on you and youll start to enjoy it after about half an hour 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spy_of_chaos
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 7, 2006 7:15 am PT
Review:  This is a great racing game when it comes to variety and a basic storyline. The race tracks are 
 really enjoyable and the AI is not bad. You can have some great fun online.
  
  The driving between races kinda gets boring and is meaningless. They place too much ads in the 
 game so you kinda feel like in a giant ad... And the soundtrack is great at first, but after a 
 while you get bored. On the other hand, when it comes to graphics, this game rocks. The feel when 
 you're drifting seems unreal, but entertaining. If you're looking for a great racing game, this 
 isn't it. But if you're a NFS fan, I suggest you try it. This game reintroduces the same stuff 
 from the original NFS: Underground and mixes it a bit. But if you've played the prequel, you won't 
 enjoy it that much.
  
  One of th ugliest things in all of the NFS games is that your car is totally indestructible even 
 if you smash it straight at 250MPh in a solid wall. Yet, you can back up the car and drive as if 
 it never happened. This game definitely ain't for those looking for a good simulation.
  
  Despite all the game's faults, it deserves 7 for it's entertaining races. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ig123
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 10, 2006 9:02 am PT
Review:  Need for speed series changed. Ever since UG1, the series turned into heavily arcade orientated 
 racing.
  
  UG2 delivers everything that's needed for a quality arcade racer... or not?
  
  Lets see. Graphics.
  
  Now, I know. They have a whole city modelled, and a bunch of cars. 
 However, if they detailed the cars and the lightening effects so great, why didnt they use high 
 resolution textures? Look at the road! DAmn it, it's like... soapy water, low-res, and it looks 
 nothing like asphalt. The cars as mentioned are detailed, no problem with that.
  
  Controls/physics
  
  Given the fact it's arcade it's pretty damn good. However, It could have 
 been better... Now physics - wise the game's weak. I think crashes with traffic cars and AI cars 
 should be more realistic, or at least it should affect you more. Also, there's no damage, which 
 is a bit of an illusion-destroyer, it is part of the street racing!
  
  Gameplay
  
  It's alright. Unlike in UG1 you have a whole city to explore, and the city has bunch of stores, 
 markets, to buy cars, parts, and so on. It gets a bit frustrating, as map doesnt show everything.
 
  Another thing is you can't just select race from main menu - you gotta get to the race location. 
 It's fun, at the beginning, but then, soonly, it gets really tiring, to drive through the city 
 all the time searching for a race. There are some competition cruising in the city, you can ask 
 them out for an 'outrun', its adrelain pumping, definitely.
  
  So..?
  
  So it all sounds good. A good game. But UG2 is too repeatative. Its really cool to pimp out your 
 car, but, other than that, there's nothing special this game offers. THe city itself looks pretty 
 damn dead, the races are really the same all the time. Only thing that kept me excited was the 
 canyon drifts, what a shame there are not alot of 'em.
  
  And ,although as i said this is what UG1 should have been, its a big mistake that EA released the 
 game so early. If it was free, or at least budget price, i'd recoommed it. But since when it came 
 out it was 50 bucks, a price of a full game, well... it's really just a patched up UG1. Imho. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mad_Game_hi5
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 8, 2006 4:36 am PT
Review:  Well I didn't like NFS. It was boooooooooring. Well I the racing was nice but boring. But Underground 
 2 offers you the pleasure of customizing your car. Not Only performance .you can tune your look 
 with body kits, bumpers, roof scoops, hoods, spoilers, neons, trunk audio, paintjobs. Well you 
 get a car and make it the car of your dreams. You can place 4 sets of vinyls. For good looks. You 
 have many stiles and you can combine the like splash, flames, stripes, tear etc. Well the car can 
 become super fast and powerfull. Sometimes I can't control it. The stroy is nice you were the champ 
 but a guy pays someone with a hummer H2 (you can have that too) 2 run u over. The car is garbage 
 and you are trash. After 6 months in the hospital you are back in bayview. Your friend Rachel gives 
 you her car a well tuned Nissan 350 Z (I'm not sure its soo well made that I cant tell) and you 
 must go at the car lot to pick a ney free car given to you by yopur sponsor (Rachel I think) . After 
 Youll get new sponsors. the best car is the Vauxhall Corsa (Opel Corsa) . It has speed and great 
 handling.
  I made it an angel. After I got a Hyundai etc. And you must get 2 the top. You move trugh the city 
 (You can race with opponents that are very often foun on the streets) or get in races (shown on 
 the map) , you enter a marker and press enter. There are many race types : drift, street X, U. R. L. (Underground 
 Racing League) , sprint, Circuit, drag. I love the showcase : you can take pictures of your car 
 for magazines or DVD covers. You can set the camera, control the car for a perfect view, and show 
 off your insides aspecialy the trunk audio. Yes its a great racing game. You mustn't miss it because 
 its a big step from NFS classic and modern with explore mode. Thats all so Bye-Buy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rambolito
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 8, 2006 3:18 am PT
Review:  The way the game is set up is great, you can drive freely through the city and participate in a 
 race whenever you like. On your (mini) map you'll find icons with their own shape and color indicating 
 the type of race like drift, drag, sprint etc.
  
  When cruising you'll see other streetracers who you can challenge by driving up to them from behind, 
 when you're close enough their brake-lights will light up, by hitting the 'go' button the competition 
 starts, to win you'll need to pass and loose the challenged car, a distance meter shows if you're 
 succeeding.
  
  Winning races gets you money which you'll need to upgrade your car physically and visually. There 
 is a large choice of vinyls, colors, body kits and so on to make your car pretty unique.
  
  I haven't played NFS-U1, so I can't tell if NFS-U2 is better, same or worse. I managed to finish 
 the single-player part in a couple of days. I'm not interested in the multi-player so see other 
 reviews to read about that.
  
  Pity:
  - When driving around the city I noticed that traffic can change real fast, a car you see in your 
 rear view mirror can vanish without a trace the moment you have turned your car.
  - Though you are free to choose any direction, you can't leave the road, there are always boundaries 
 of some kind. No free runs through the woods or the countryside.
  - There's no police! Of course with the intention to make sure we all buy "NFS: Most Wanted"...
 
  
  All in all a good game, with catchy music, worthy to spent your time on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: praharsh22
Rating: 8.2
Date: Sep 4, 2006 1:18 pm PT
Review:  No doubt that the game is good..... but it is surely NOT the BEST when it comes to racing games.
 
  I would say that underground 1 is better than this one. The songs which play are okay. Same goes 
 with the gameplay ............ it's "okay". And same goes with the graphics. I would say that some 
 of the races of this game are way long. They take a hell lot of time to finish which makes the 
 game a little boring. Cars don't even have a scratch on then when they collide with something which 
 makes the race look unreal........ well...... this is the case with most of the racing games these 
 days.....
  At the end I would NOT say this game is a waste of time.... it is quite enjoyable....: D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andilosha
Rating: 7.7
Date: Aug 30, 2006 9:43 am PT
Review:  It is a nice game, I've enjoyed it but it is kind of monotous, doesn't excite your emocions, you 
 just dont feel nothing!........ But the races are good if done once, something never happens! There 
 are about 16 tracks and you do about 20 races in each of them, they have a little changes, OF COARSE!
 
  For my opinion, get Most Wanted! It has the best caracteristics of Undergroun 2 but it doesn't 
 have the same boring stuff Underground 2 has. The good things, the city is great, unlocking it 
 is reall fun, the cars are cool and pimping them is awesome, but it is far from a 2006-2007 great 
 racing game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hotplayer220
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 21, 2006 4:31 pm PT
Review:  This game is just great. You start of with a starter stock car and work off of it in many deifferent 
 styles of races. While completing these races you earn points and cash towards more upgrades and 
 higher challenges. The physics in the game keep it fresh and fun. The graphics are accptable and 
 gameplay is pretty stong. The soundtrack features a wide spectrum of music that suits different 
 gamers. Customization of cars is pretty broad aswell. You have the ability to add ICE to your vehicle. 
 The design of your car earns design points which in turn means magazine or dvd cover exposure in 
 the game. 
  
  Multiplayer action is pretty strong to. You have a chance to put your wheels up agaisnt friends 
 to be #1 whether it be drift, drag, circuit, outrun, sprint or street x.
  
  If you like racing games, this one should be in your collection most definately. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abdulrahiem
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 7, 2006 4:22 pm PT
Review:  Graphics-The actual graphics themselves themselves aren't that great, but the lighting is increadible. 
 The shadows and glows and blur affects are awesome. It really all comes together and looks really 
 nice.
  
  Sound-The hip hop needs to stop! The voice acting is sooo bad because they are always trying to 
 be "cool" by saying words like bro and yo. The voice acting and some of the music is terrible. 
 Rap is so repetive. Some of the rock tracks are all-right like black betty. The game sounds are 
 awesome and make up for it though. Shifts sound cool and so does the rush of air.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sNoWbLiNd89
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 6, 2006 4:43 am PT
Review:  This would be the 4th game that I've got from the NFS series and I have to say that this game ROCKz, 
 It has alot of feature's in it that NFS Underground did'nt quiet have and so far IMO is the best 
 NFS game out of there series then following closely behind would be MW. The graphic's in Underground 
 2 are excellent on high & online play is great since they keep track of your stats. One of the 
 best thing's in NFSU2 that I thought was dyno tuning your car's, which would keep you occupied 
 for age's, the music ingame was mostly all good but I wish there still was an option to put your 
 own IN!!! all in all this games pretty cheap now so it's worth buying it :) well until Carbon come's 
 out ;) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Akath19
Rating: 8.1
Date: Aug 4, 2006 1:48 pm PT
Review:  The game's basically great, except for the fact that it feels too much like an Xbox game (EA has 
 a "game porting" policy that makes you feel bad for them) , aside the "Xbox game" feeling the game 
 delivers everything the ads say, lots of cars, great performance and visual tuning, huge load of 
 events and needless to say one of the best game guides ever (Brooke Burke) , there's absolutely 
 nothing to say for the gameplay (being a racing/tuning game it's a no-brainer when it comes to 
 gameplay) .
  
  Although (be warned) that if you like a racing game, not a racing/exploring game (a la GTA) do 
 yourself a favor and pick NFS: U1, but if you're into exploring and watching all that effort that 
 the art deparment put into creating a city then U2 it's exactly what you're looking for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: filaria
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 1, 2006 12:30 am PT
Review:  NFSU2 is probably one of the greatest car racing games you will come across especially one with 
 such good graphics. The gameplay and a plethora of licensed cars to be customized in every minute 
 detail just add to it. A major dissappointment is the soundtrack with only acouple of good songs. It 
 should have had something like borntooslow as in NFSU. The career mode is pretty good except for 
 the fact that the the cutscenes lack model characters but more like comic strips as in the Max 
 Payne series. This mode will/may get you bored as hell cause when you come to the forth / fifth 
 level you gotta win 30-35races one after the other. Though it, s upto you to choose races yet it 
 lacks some srious variation. But once you complete the career mode and unlock access to all parts 
 you can have some serious fun in the quick race mode. The dfferent type of races including the new 
 and old are great. To sum up, all in all NFSU2 is a great game that could have been a little better. However 
 these flaws dont seem to hamper the overall game experience much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matthijstol
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 30, 2006 4:25 am PT
Review:  This game adds even more greatness to the already great game called NFSU. You get more cars and 
 even better you get loads more of tuning options to your car. You can modify a huge amount of things 
 about your car.
  
  The game had some graphical improvements fro NFSU and the best thing is that you get way more freedom 
 to drive than you did in the first game. That was about the only thing wrong with nfsu because 
 you just did race after race and with this game you can drive around.
  
  The cars all look really nice especially if you've tuned every bit of the car like you want to 
 ;) The opponents in the game are nicely done, not too bright at first but they catch on rather 
 quickly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarknessSpawn
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 30, 2006 3:01 am PT
Review:  A good game back 2 years ago and still might be now if you install it on a high end computer... graphics 
 would be surprising compared to 2004 games. lol
  anyway this game is nice... color or install anything you want.. from speakers and tv screens to 
 big rims and body works!
  although this might be better than the most wanted type of customization since you can install 
 the front and back bumper and side skirts instead of just buying the whole set without you chosing 
 the parts in the set. This has a type of a comic storyline instead of cinematic or cut scenes you 
 view moving comic pages.... as weird as it sounds... which makes the game in my opinion worse, because 
 the moving comic images look bad with graphics and just make you ask "if you can make moving comic 
 images why not cut scenes or some cinematic game movie?".
  plus i beat the game in like 38 hours... not so hard 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Danny_Bullit
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 28, 2006 3:33 pm PT
Review:  by far the best need for speed game. Underground 2 takes you to a whole new level of gameplay that 
 when you play it it wilol take your mind of off anything you were thinking about.
  Customize cars like you have never customized them... do whatever you want.... with all the colours, 
 vinyles, spoilers, hoods, rims, spinners etc. Unlimited amout of racing. You can roe\am around the 
 city while in story mode... and everything is all cool. the game is all good from the time you start 
 playing it till the end... whenever that comes.. and until the new nfs: wanted comes out this will 
 probably be the best car game there is.
  The soundtracks are even better than the previous underground... actually everything is better than 
 the previus undergorund... buy it you wont regret it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wanderlust_85
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 23, 2006 6:34 am PT
Review:  Dont know what to say about the game.... high anticipations have let to a great downfall... to 
 be true the positive points about the game is the aplendid graphic with all those motivating sound 
 tracks to lift the spirits up in a monotonous boring game. it cant be rejected that NFS underground 
 2 has tried to come up with a new type a game play where you get to cruise around the city ... 
 choose the races u want ... besides there is an option of outrun too where its more of one to one 
 street racing ... after a certain number of wins one can unlock unique parts... mainly unique performance 
 and body upgrads
  the best thing abt the game is Brooke..... apart from this if one wants easy racing and kill his 
 time and waste his money... GO FOR IT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gunnybunny35
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 21, 2006 12:03 pm PT
Review:  this game is very fun, and if you like this type of game than you should buy it because you will 
 love it. the graphics are good, the races are good, but between the races is where this game falls 
 short. it is just really boring then, and you really want to get where you are going to go, because 
 it is so boring. but you get to customize cars, and do lots of other stuff, so that is made up 
 for. this game surpasses street racing syndicate, and all other need for speed games ever invented. 
 though i have to say street racing syndicate was a good game and it is not far behind this one. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bulldawg8879
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 21, 2006 10:21 am PT
Review:  This is my first need for speed game ive really played all the way through. Ive never really been 
 into the racing games very much until recently. I didnt have high expectations for it when I started 
 it due to the fact that it played slowly because of my computer but turning the detail down the 
 game ran fairly well with a little bit of slowdown. The games graphics are very good on high detail 
 and look alright at low detail. The game has some good music in it some rap and some heavy metal 
 underground type bands. Black betty was one of my favorites and Sly boogy the rap song. The gameplay 
 on this game is pretty repetitive and very easy on the easy difficulty. The main map is open ended 
 like grand theft auto allowing you to drive wherever you want. On the map there are different colored 
 dots indicating different types of races. There are several different types of events drag, drift, 
 raceing laps, sprint, street x downhill drag and URL which I hated the URL. I breezed through the 
 game although I did put quite a few hours into it more then most games. The tracks all look the 
 same for each type of event with just turns and roads in different spots but I still found the 
 game addictive just seeing how many more races you can complete before you stop 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MickMaurer
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 17, 2006 5:06 am PT
Review:  
  EA Games has always been able to dazzle the crowds with its very own Burnout series, yet started 
 the Need for Speed Underground series in hope to attract a more experienced audience. The first 
 game was impressive, with its seemingly endless customization options and arcade-style races. Since 
 then, the same crew unleashed the wildly successful Burnout 3: Takedown. However, the latest installment 
 was not released on Nintendo's little purple cube. Though Need for Speed Underground 2 does not 
 have the same console barricade, can it even be recommended to gamers with nothing but a GameCube? 
 
  
  The game begins as the character goes to a city known as Bayview. Since he has made a name for 
 himself before, it's now time to start fresh and make a name in the Underground Racing League in 
 the new city. With nothing but flat, comic book-like cinemas to progress the tale along, finding 
 even the slightest moment to appreciate in the story is a neigh impossible task. Though it was 
 mostly set up to get the "gangster" feeling, it is rather glaring how quickly the character manages 
 to snatch sponsors and magazine covers. Being flooded with advertisements and comments such as, 
 "Yo, baller, think ya can hang with us?" managed to also completely slaughter such feeling. Luckily, 
 no one on Earth cares about the story in racing games. 
  
  In order to join such underground races, the city of Bayview must be explored. The city is relatively 
 large, but offers very little in the freedom of exploration. The spider web of roads is where all 
 driving is confined, as most places have a gate or an invisible wall preventing any sort of off-road 
 exploration. With no pedestrians, and an eternal night, the city never felt alive. Plus, there 
 are very few items of interest to even be found. When almost all places appear right on the map, 
 all there is to do is drive from race-to-race, shop for car parts, or challenge other racers to 
 an Out-run. In an Out-run, the goal is to pass the opponent and get one thousand feet between the 
 two of you, which can become very addictive. 
  
  When driving around the area, the GPS can be used to guide oneself from one place to another by 
 pressing left on the D-Pad. When activated, a blue arrow is placed on the top of the screen. This 
 is a very handy feature, as the arrow goes not in the direction that the crow flies, but will actually 
 point to the proper roads to take. However, it has a tendency of changing its mind on the best 
 route to take when there are many intersections about. The SMS, which just so happens to constantly 
 display the Cingular symbol, allows communication with the other racing "dawgs" on the circuit, 
 but is mostly used just to give the player advice on where to go next. The exploration added in 
 Need for Speed Underground 2 certainly helps give more freedom of choice, as kicking back and competing 
 in Out-runs for an hour has more charm that menu surfing. Yet, with very little items to interact 
 with, can sometimes be a burden for those who just want to race, have a need for speed. 
  
 The AI could use some tweaking, the racing could be a bit faster, and exploration could be deeper, 
 but the amount of modes and custom options help make up for these flaws." 
  
  On the bright side of things, EA's latest racing game serves up a very wide variety of racing modes. 
 Circuit, Sprint, Drag, Drift, Street X, and Free Run are only the beginning of the list. Plus, 
 thanks to the added exploration, the player can avoid any mode that is simply not his or her cup 
 of tea. Circuit, with a deceiving title, is a single race of multiple laps. Sprint is a dash to 
 the finish line. Drag is a straight-on race with the manual control setup, but uses an awkward 
 control scheme for steering. Pressing left or right on the Control Stick will cause the vehicle 
 to slowly change lanes, which makes traffic very difficult to avoid. Drift, a very pointless mode, 
 forces the player onto a very small track. The only goal here is to drift and skid more than any 
 other racer. The game tries to enforce the use of the hand brake for this task, but it is much 
 easier to hold right, then left, then right, then left, etc., until the "race" is finished. Street 
 X is very similar to a Circuit, but takes place on a very small track where brutality is equivalent 
 to victory. Free Run is simply a good way to explore for shortcuts. 
  
  Many races, rather than beginning with a countdown, feel the best way to achieve the ghetto feeling 
 to have a person motion for the start while standing on the starting line. This dishes out a unique 
 trick, as the type of person may vary when it is best to begin revving the car up. When the race 
 begins, expect the AI, whose difficulty can be varied in any mode, to fly into the lead. While 
 this is initially discouraging, the longer the race, the more mistakes that the AI will make. While 
 the AI could be ahead at the start of the second lap, it is perfectly feasible to take the lead 
 with almost ten seconds to spare before the race meets its end. The corner of the screen constantly 
 shows how far ahead or behind the opponents are, which can be very helpful when the heat is on 
 near the end of the race. 
  
  EA clearly stole a few pages out of its own Burnout series and tried to glue them into Need for 
 Speed Underground 2. Another racer or even a poorly attempted turn can easily spin out other vehicles, 
 and your very own. More glaring, however, is the Nitrous feature. This device gives the player 
 boosts through doing risky acts, such as closely missing traffic or drifting. The aspect tried 
 to emulate the crazy pace of its sister series, but is executed more as an identity crisis. The 
 detection of such crazy tactics is off, and power behind the boost boarders on slim to diddly squat 
 for the opening hours of the game. 
  
  One giant edge Underground 2 has over Burnout is the amount of tweaking that can be done to the 
 vehicles. Since companies like Ford and Honda never expected their cars to have to go this fast, 
 special parts can be purchased from various shops in Bayview. While Burnout merely offered a fresh 
 coat of paint, ranging from sturdy engines to flashy neon lights, almost every part of every car 
 can be customized with dozens upon dozens of different pieces in this game. The shame is, it is 
 very difficult to find shops for such things in Career Mode, making the process of snagging a stylin' 
 set of wheels a difficult task. Luckily, all of the other modes allow for quick and easy changes 
 to be made.
  
  The GameCube was, as usual, given the worst version of the multi-console title. While the X-Box 
 and Playstation 2 frolic in glee with online play, the GameCube is stuck with nothing more than 
 a two-player split screen. This does provide fun and replay value, but cannot compete with the 
 endless competition found online. 
  At least the graphics are a pretty sight in Need for Speed Underground 2. The scenery is gorgeous, 
 especially with the realistic night lighting. The rain effects are up to snuff, and the vehicles 
 themselves are some pretty sights. Details like the glow of headlights adds a lot of enjoyment, 
 too. Like many racing games, however, the audience of every race is what one would expect to see 
 a console generation ago. 
  
  While Burnout is famous for its madcap crashes, this game makes one appreciate those fan-made movies 
 shown online. While the cars fly, spin, and screech along pavement, there is almost no signs of 
 damage shown on the car at all. It almost seems as though the programming department was in a hurry 
 and released something that would only be acceptable in a test version of the game. 
  
  The audio department of the latest Need for Speed is a very mixed bag. Like many EA games before 
 it, Underground 2 offers a soundtrack composed of actual songs from actual artists. While most 
 games had offered a wide variety of tunes, about the only style here is rap. Plus, the amount of 
 songs is nothing to write home about. The sounds of the game are very passable, offering the typical 
 engine sounds, screeches, and screaming brakes. The voice acting, though featuring Brooke Burke, 
 is another stale attempt at the underground feeling the game so treacherously misses. With nothing 
 but slang comments from people that sound pissed off, the only thing to be thankful for is the 
 fact no one talks during the actual races. 
  
  The entire presentation of Need for Speed Underground 2 seems confused. On one hand, we see advertisements 
 for dozens of companies and a safety message on the importance of seat belts, yet we hear street 
 talk in a night racing environment. It almost tries to become Burnout with the Nitrous, for which 
 no one could belittle. However, once the racing is found and the confusing menus have been navigated, 
 there is some great arcade-style racing to be found. Though the AI may be unbalanced, the tracks 
 are well designed with tricky turns and shortcuts, an endangered species in many recent racers. 
 The deep customization also adds a lot of replay value to the game. Though Burnout 3: Takedown 
 is an all-around better game, GameCube holders dying for a racing experience would be foolish to 
 skip over Need for Speed Underground 2.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tyler_is_kool
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 16, 2006 6:49 pm PT
Review:  This is the first game of the seriese I got and it was pretty fun!
  The races I did was not that hard. The drag races are very fun I never did thoughs kind of races 
 before and I did pretty good! ( Upgrading you car is cool but midnight club 3 is better at upgrading 
 cars and stuff.) I made my car look so cool and I got my car on a magazine cover! The storyline 
 of the game is not that bad they dont really show movie things they show comic things it's wierd 
 I don't really like that. The city is not that bad it looks good.
  The graphics isnt that bad. The thing thats unrelistic about the game is that when you race there 
 is walls ,fake walls that are there just for the race ... its wierd.
  
  I never played Need For Speed most wanted but i hope its way beter than this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Joceaa8
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 16, 2006 11:04 am PT
Review:  The game is very fun and im a guy that likes customizing games.
  There is a great sense of speed and the fisics are pretty realistic exept for the car crashes, 
 those are terrible... the graffics are top notch too bad the other cars just driving around the 
 city look so bad. The only thing is when doing circit races and the long ones it gets boring after 
 a while and its to easy. I have already beat the game once and i have almost beat it again and 
 its still very fun, i just cant get enough of building cool cars, there's endless possibilities! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evilresident666
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 16, 2006 9:51 am PT
Review:  Need for speed underground 1 was one of my favorite arcade racers of all time, Need for speed underground 
 2 doesn't quite reach those ranks, but its close. Need for speed underground 2 has very, very good 
 graphics, the car models, for instance are amazingly detailed and the rain effects are pretty good. 
 The game Need for speed underground 2 has an amazing soundtrack and the cars sound great. Rarely 
 does anything called career mode in any game get my attention (i have ADD and i cant pay attention 
 that long to advance far in career mode) but NFSU 2 was a major exception, the career mode rocked 
 my mother ******* world. Ive played that mode three times and beat every race every time, and i 
 feel accomplished. If you play this game you will feel accomplished too. Worth its 20 dollar price 
 point. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brandon_Starr
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 14, 2006 2:00 pm PT
Review:  There is almost nothing wrong with the entire game. I still only have the demo, but I recently 
 got it shipped to me. It has tons of content worth buying almost immediately. If you haven't bought 
 it yet, what are you waiting for? I've never seen a game with such amazing graphics and capability. 
 It may run a little slow with older computers, but even with the graphics turned down, this is 
 an altogether great game. I could literally ramble for hours on how awesome I think this game is. 
 All I know, is that the PC version is the best. It seems as though you have more options and extras. 
 Plus, if you are a cheater (like me) you get tons more stuff to fool around with (trainers, save 
 games, etc.) . I love this game more than anything I've ever played. It's one of those Buy or Die 
 situations. It's an old game that will someday become worth a lot more than it does now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: webchuzz
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 30, 2006 4:06 am PT
Review:  Now on the second game of the sequel, Underground 2 brings you another stock of new cars, new tunning 
 pieces and performance pieces, new street racing types. The game story is all telled in comics 
 format, and it happens in Bayview. You are a recent arrival and you will integrate a big group 
 of street racers and show them that you are the best of the best. You'll start with a borrowed 
 car, which you will have to deliver to its own.
  The driving motion is better than in the previous Underground, and you have the Free Roam option. 
 Free Roam lets you hang around in the city, which didn't happen on Underground. Giving you more 
 reallity, while you hang around you can stop at racing points or at equipement shops. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sudantha8527
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 26, 2006 8:06 pm PT
Review:  The game is the best game in the series after Undergroud. 
  
  GOOD: The graphics are prtty cool, the free raom mode puts a lot in to the game and the drags are 
 awesome. There are some new stuff in the game since Underground. Online and Lan play are cool since 
 this is the first NFS game that I have played online and LAN in the NFS series.
  
  BAD: There really is no bad to talk about really. Just that the story seems broken in parts. The 
 game takes in resources for graphics so you better have a card that supports the game.
  
  Overall one of the best racing games to come out at the time. With Need for Speed: Most Wanted 
 out it proves that Need for Speed is one of the best series' around. I highly reccomend that you 
 play the game, even at this time 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theunwn
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 21, 2006 3:24 am PT
Review:  When Need for speed Underground came out and the reviews were in, I got it and I loved it. Underground 
 was great because of its great sensation of speed, all the customization options, and drag mode. 
 yes, underground did get repetetive and did have poor level designs, but its still my favorite 
 racing game. 
  
  When I heard that Need for Speed Underground 2 was coming out and was going to have a free-roaming 
 world and even more customization options I almost peed my pants and now I have it. But, In the 
 first few hours of playing the game I got bored. 
  
  I got bored because of the free-roaming city. It may sound fun, but having to drive to like five 
 different customization shops to find that your favorite vinyl is at the first shop that you went 
 to quickly gets tiring. And even if you know what you want, for example you want to buy some NOS, 
 a new hood, and a new vinyl, you will have to go to three different shops to get those things, 
 instead of just getting them right at the menu like in the first underground. I love the free-roaming 
 cities in GTA, but theres no one to run-over or do a drive-by shooting to in Underground 2. Iam 
 not expecting Underground 2 to have to have killable people, but the free-roaming city is totally 
 pointless. 
  
  The second that I started I was a little disapointed that Undergound 2 (like the first Underground) 
 has this lady that helps me get started, but mostly only shows up at the beggining of the game 
 and also Underground 2 has a cheesy little movie that tells me how I got to where I was. These 
 things took away from the game because all I wanted to do is race. Then after I got my car I was 
 stunned by the graphics. Then I was impressed by how I was able to just drive through the city 
 without racing. Before I got to racing I wanted to try out the new outrun mode where you race through 
 the open city trying to get a certain distance ahead of the oponent to win, it was great fun, until 
 I grew tired of my AI oponent speeding up when I was ten feet away from outrunning him. At the 
 beginning I was also impressed with another new mode where you drive around a thin, small track 
 with many corners trying to win the race. 
  
  Although, after playing this game for about 15 hours I grew so tired of driving everywhere I even 
 stopped customizing my car visually (my favorite part of Underground) . Also, I began to notice 
 many advirtisements for real companies like burger king and it really took away from the gameplay. 
 Also, there will be random money lying around in the city, whats up with that? The graphics impressed 
 me every time I played the game, but then theres also loading times that will test your patience 
 and there is a loading screen for every shop or race that you enter. I grew so tired of outrun 
 mode that I stopped playing it and I tried to avoid the small track racing because It wasn't as 
 fast and intense like the other modes were. Unless you are a big fan of rap, you will quickly be 
 turning the sound off because it just doesn't fit with intense racing. 
  
  If you are a fan of street racing get the first Underground because you get a better game for a 
 lower price. The only reason you should get this terrible sequel is because you are obsessed with 
 customizing your car and just cant wait for another racing game to come out. Overall, Underground 
 2 is a total disapointment that you should avoid at all costs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Standardqueso
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 18, 2006 7:44 pm PT
Review:  NFS is a good series. For me a racing game is about hit the metal, running like hell through narrow 
 spaces, cool cars. The sims are ok but they implies too much trouble. NFS U2 has great graphics, 
 an amazing scenario, the car of my dreams (Audi TT) . But the game itself is slow, too much running 
 around in an endless night to get the things done, the city is like in a january 1st, no one. I 
 don`t even know why in the options menu you can activate the multitude. The AI is just too easy 
 to beat, even in X races. Just get the first place and don`t make mistakes, the real challenge 
 is to get your car pimped soon enough. No damage modeling, All notes for the next time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TransAmSD455
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 12, 2006 8:46 am PT
Review:  The Need For Speed games have been pretty fun over the years for your average racing fans, but 
 anyone looking for a REAL racing game, go look somewhere else.
  
  Need for Speed Underground 2 is a mear car customazation show off video game, with an OK, NOT good 
 amount of licensed cars the game creators managed to stick SO MANY car customization features, 
 that yes it will keep you comming back till you customize all the cars they have (which aint much) .
 
  
  Graphicly wise, its a very pretty game, ok sense of speed and car models look well done as well.
 
  
  Track design is the lamest i've ever really seen in a racing game, sure there are plenty of diffrent 
 race types, but the AI's just so lame that... well its too easy, no real hair raising moments or 
 exiting situations to talk about here... you'll coast through the majority of the game in about 
 2 days, and i mean with light sit downs, not playing 2 days streight.
  
  Need For Speed Underground 2: Rentle! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vufor
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 7, 2006 11:15 pm PT
Review:  Mind blowing sequel for the best street racing game NFS: Underground. Graphically reached to the 
 perfect level, sound effects in the game so realistic. Depending on what kind of road you drive, 
 sound coming from wheel friction to the road surface changes. 
  Damn it is so cool to hear that voices.
  Gameplay itself created in high level and very addictive. 
 For more performance at the game you should meet all requirements of sponsor and that way earn 
 money to tune you car for best performance. In first look it seemed to me a bit difficult to pass 
 URL and Street X racings, but after some time you will get use to it and show good performance 
 and enjoy of all wonders of game. 
  Especially in game cut scense with two beatiful women was making game more and more playable. cut 
 scenses itself was created in special way, by photos coming in sequence to the games screen play. 
 Immpresive
  
  It is one of the deserving sequels for such a game NFS: Underground. At same time with this game 
 I was playing NFS: Most Wanted. Well read my review about NFS: MW and you will find out my thoughts 
 regarding which is games is the best in series.
  
  Enjoy your game!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: X-Strike
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 21, 2006 11:56 pm PT
Review:  Pros: The game has nice GFX, sound and music is OK. The free raoming option is also a nice addition. 
 Missions are a little more exciting than the first one, but aren't that original. But it just doesn't 
 feel any different than part one... 
  
  Cons: It's almost a exact copy of the first Underground game, this makes it just not worth the 
 money. It's more from the same. Seen that, been there... it's also missing the free roaming mode 
 in multiplayer, that would have been so cool; like in Midnight Club 2! But spare yourself the trouble 
 for now and keep playing the original Need for speed Underground. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oppong
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 17, 2006 2:16 pm PT
Review:  I love all the games that comes out with the title NFS, so i guess this is my favorite too. the first 
 time when i saw the cover i knew it is going to be good. This game is pretty cool cause i always 
 wanted full 100%, but i am waiting to get it because i don't play it all the time i only play it 
 more on the weekends, not the weekdays beause i got lots of homework to do, but i am still playing 
 it because the game is pretty fun, the best thing about the game is the graphics, the cars and the 
 game itself. this game is not perfect but the Ea guys made it more perfect, so if u want to play 
 or a ea fan go for this, it is fan 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pagano
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 15, 2006 2:46 pm PT
Review:  I was very amazed when I first playd it, and I tottaly LOVE this game.
  I have played it many many times, and full 100%. I must say, that I just can't get enough of it. 
 I'm addicted to NFS games. 
  Best part in Underground2 is that player can ride outside races (like in Most Wanted) . That makes 
 the game more interesting for me. Graphics, cars, gameplay e. t. c might not be perfect, but it sure 
 is close to perfection. 
  My words to EA and fans are only good. Keep up with the good job!
  Hope there's more, who like 
 this game :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krudo
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 6, 2006 8:36 am PT
Review:  The arrival of EA's long running franchise was highly anticipated. Just the fact of this means 
 the game was fighting a hard battle, even before it was released. This game is boasting the most 
 cars that the underground franchise has seen. However most of the cars feel the same and are just 
 different because of the speeds that the car can go up to. 
  
  The game continues from the first Underground, you have become champion of the streets but someone 
 smashes your ride up and you are forced to move to Bayview... The story after this is rather dull 
 and repetitive with no fully animated video. Instead the game goes for a comic book feel, but it 
 doesn't pull this off very well. With no actual incentive to continue racing the game falls flat 
 as the tracks are revisited numerous times in the career. 
  
  There is a free-roam feature added into the game, this works well at the start of the game but 
 again isn't pulled off to full effect as you have to drive to each event with no way to skip straight 
 to the race. This gets very frustrating as the GPS system is very flawed and often sends you in 
 entirely the wrong direction. 
  
  At the start of the game the races feel very uneventful and boring, fortunately the races do get 
 faster as the game progresses. This leads us to the biggest flaw in the game: The difficulty. The 
 races can take around 5 minutes each and for about 4 minutes you will be racing with no one in 
 front of you, even on hard.
  
  However, there are some good points. The customisation is very good and there are many new options. 
 The most significant is the addition of a "Dyno mode." This can keep you occupied for many hours 
 and it is slightly worrying, as it seems to be the most fun part of the game. 
  
  All in all this is a good game, however there are some major flaws that hold the game back. If 
 you loved Underground 1, you are going to like this, just don't expect a huge jump in quality from 
 the first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigpimpfattony
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 5, 2006 3:30 pm PT
Review:  Need for speed Underground 2 has a wide variety of cars, an expansive enviroment, and a pretty 
 good feel to it. With many other racing games out there such as Most Wanted and Trackmania Nations 
 (absolutely free) , need for speed underground 2 climbs it's way up to an 8 out of 10. Despite the 
 fact the first underground scored much higher because of originality, this one is just the same 
 game, with not many new features added. I agree there were many new cars and a completely new map, 
 but we've seen it before many times. 
  Nothing new for an outstanding game.
  
  8/10 is what it deserves. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: r2d2_288
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 4, 2006 8:14 am PT
Review:  The game has evolved very good from it previous version. Its graphic is very good. Gta SA has used 
 the idea of the blurring efffect when the car moves from this game. But it lacks the driving effect 
 from the previous version. the game could have been made much more exciting. The modification parts 
 of the car are the same from the pior version except for some advancement. the car the same old 
 ones except for the new suv's.
  Four words for this game, state-of-the-art. This is what street racing is really about, roaming 
 the city to accept new game modes such as Outrun challenges, Downhill Drift, Street-X, Showcase, 
 Underground Racing League, and you can't forget about your original challenges from the 2003 blockbuster 
 hit Need For Speed Underground. They've added alot of upgrades which can be found on your map, 
 certain ones like audio systems, side mirrors, spinners, and doors are some of the greatest things 
 you can have in a car these days if you like to impress alot of women and friends. Roaming on open 
 roads is the best feature EA Games have added to this, without this, it wouldn't have made much 
 because it would've turned out to be like Need For Speed Underground.
  
  Never forget about the new cars either, the main one I was looking for in this game was the Pontiac 
 GTO and I'm soo glad they put that on here, that seems like a great car in real life, so putting 
 that on here makes this game great, inspiring, and perfect for everyone to check out. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: djnet
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 24, 2006 2:06 pm PT
Review:  Need for Speed Underground 2 tries to inject a story into your career mode using static-image cutscenes 
 that pop up before some races. The effect is similar to what the Max Payne series does with its 
 noninteractive sequences, though that game pulls it off much better than Need for Speed Underground 
 2 does. Dopey story short, you're sent off to a new town after getting ambushed by a rival racing 
 crew, and you'll have to start from scratch with one car and a handful of races to get you going. 
 
  
  The biggest change made by this year's game is that the action now takes place in one large city. 
 You're given free rein to drive around wherever you want, and you'll have to drive to races to 
 drive in them. You'll also have to drive to different parts shops to customize your ride -- in fact, 
 you'll have to find most of the game's shops by cruising around the city, looking for the right 
 type of colored lights. The game gives you an onscreen map, but shops don't show up until you've 
 found them, and some races don't actually appear on the map, either. 
  
  On paper, this whole open-city thing sounds like an interesting idea. Someone probably sat down 
 and said, "Well, everyone likes Grand Theft Auto, and it has an open city, so our game has to have 
 an open city as well. In fact, let's even make it so that different sections of the city are locked 
 away until you progress to a certain point in the career mode." In practice, driving around the 
 city is a real drag that keeps you out of the action longer than you'd like. The game also rarely 
 takes advantage of the open city for racing purposes, staging a majority of its events on preset 
 tracks, rather than attempting to go for a Midnight Club-like "get there however you can" feel. 
 There's a menu in the garage that lets you jump to a handful of different events, but most races 
 don't show up here, and none of the shops do, either, making it completely useless.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rasec_cgod
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 20, 2006 12:03 pm PT
Review:  This is a perfect game for me. I'm from mexico and this is an excellent game..... I play 30 hours 
 aprox. and is very fun but my PC is very old and the graphics is so very bad. But i love this game.... 
 ...... ..... ........... .......... ............ ....... ................ .............. .................. 
 ....................... ....................... ....................... ..... ........... .......... 
 ............ ....... ................ .............. .................. ....................... 
 ....................... ..................
  ..... ..... ........... .......... ............ ....... ................ .............. .................. 
 ....................... ....................... ..................
  ..... ..... ........... .......... ............ ....... ................ .............. .................. 
 ....................... ....................... ..................
  ..... ..... ........... .......... ............ ....... ................ .............. .................. 
 ....................... ....................... ..................
  ..... ..... ........... .......... ............ ....... ................ .............. .................. 
 ....................... ....................... ..................
  ..... ..... ........... .......... ............ ....... ................ .............. .................. 
 ....................... ....................... ..................
  ..... ..... ........... .......... ............ ....... ................ .............. .................. 
 ....................... ....................... ..................
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: milkduds_1167
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 9, 2006 3:33 pm PT
Review:  First off I was very impressed with the way this game looked, This game has the best visuals in 
 the nfs series before it. I think the city looks better in this game than the first nfs its great 
 how the city is lit up at nighttime, its quite as detailed and large than grand theft auto games 
 but it doesn't matter that much right? I mean its a racing game. Not only the sound in the game 
 is great, but the music is pretty good too, I hope you like Snoop dawg and Queens of the stone 
 age.
  There are a couple things I had a problems with, one is that you have to drive all around the city 
 just to find a shop you want to go to. Two is that you Your car doesn't get damaged when you hit 
 things. These problems should be fixed in the new nfs most wanted. I was surprised at how many 
 cars you can choose from and the good thing is that you can have more than one car at a time.
 
  This game has a good story and a good single player mode. There are lots of race types to choose 
 from like drag, drift, u. r. l. (underground racing league) and way more, I just can't remember. Overall 
 I thought this was a solid game and Iook forward to need for speed most wanted for the 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dope999
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 31, 2005 1:36 am PT
Review:  Need for Speed Underground 2 is much better than it's predecessor, and some of the best racing 
 games you can see on the store shelves. There is many hours of fun packed in this game, especially 
 the carrier mode, and customizing your own car, is just the coolest. 
  I started out with an Peugeot 106, probably the best car you can choose in the start. And suddenly 
 I found out that I was addicted to customizing my car, with cool spoilers, front bumper, back bumper, 
 side skirts and so much more. 
  The races in the game are also very cool. My personal favorite is "sprint", because it's easely 
 done. My all time hate race is "drag", because I think it's hard to get in the right gear, and 
 in the end of the game, the other bastards are just too fast. 
  I have finished the carrier mode once, and now I've started a new carrier.
  Thanks to EA games 
 for making such a great game!
  
  The Good: 
  
  - Awesome gameplay, you can play this game all night!
  - Very great graphics.
  - The in-game 
 music creates a good racing mood. Love Skindred!
  - Lots of replay value. Especially in customizing a car.
  
  The Bad: 
  
  - You can't paint 
 carbon.
  - You can't decide how all the front pages and DVD covers should look like.
  - The cutscenes isn't the best. 
  - No Ford Mondeo.. : (
  
  Need for speed underground 2, 
 is for all racing game lovers. And it can be highly recommended.. 
  
  Dope999
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: the-killaz
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 28, 2005 11:04 pm PT
Review:  The Need For Speed games are great games but you have to by well in playing them because there 
 first need for speed is to great but the oppoment is faster than you and it get better in the third 
 need for speed (need for speed hot persuit) this is a great game on the PC or On the consoles. 
 
  The need for speed games on the PC you can play online on the pc or you can play 2 player (split 
 screen) this is good but they removed this mode in the fifth game of need for speed but its get 
 better in need for speed under ground 2
  --
  Need for speed underground 2 its the best racing game on the PC you can play online you can challenge 
 more people and you can built your car this is the best part of the game you can built on every 
 thing in the car world or in the real world on you car you can put spiner on you car ot you can 
 put audio in your trunk so that gives you a great look when you take a picture to your car 
  
  This is A game You play on your PC 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paulxcs
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 23, 2005 8:26 am PT
Review:  NFS are the best street races game in these last years, but NFS2, was not a very good one. This 
 game shows a totally different gameplay where the street racers looks up for a race in the middle 
 of anywhere, and also you can continue the game by doing its "missions". 
  
  Need For Speed: Underground
  Gameplay: Revolutionary game in this fact, never designed by anyone 
 else, it's totally new and this is one of the factors that makes the game good enough.
  Graphics: NFS: U1 had better graphics, a LOT better graphics. This game's were "okey" but sometimes 
 the car seems to be from Need For Speed 2, the game released about the year 99'. 
  Sounds: No game had ever had so great sounds, the engine torque, transmittion and fuel injection 
 is what you can CLEARLY hear in the game, this makes you feel the car as real. 
  
  Other stuff is great too, but I didnt like in any of NFS Underground that if you pick a car to 
 put the secrets or special reward upgrades then if you get a better car, you cannot put it to them, 
 I think they screwed up with that. I had a Mazda Miata (MX-5) and when I reached the end they gave 
 me the Skyline and I couldn't put all the super stuff. That was stupid.
  Thanks for your time reading,
  J. P. M. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Majordeoxys
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 20, 2005 11:24 pm PT
Review:  I like racing games too . This is one most finest game after NFS Most Wanted . Well i liked this 
 game because i can to ride in the 356 km/h. speed that is amazing . I wan; t that NFS Most Wanted 
 be more liker with this game . If you ever played NFS games you must like this game a lot. But there 
 is some problems when you get alot of speed and you race if you ride your speed reduce and I don't 
 like that . Well If you like NFS you must play this game and I'am sure you played it . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SZeroC
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 20, 2005 4:09 am PT
Review:  Staying with the pack.
  
  The underground racing scene works in mysterious ways. One minute, you're cruising around town 
 as carefree as can be, and the next you're screeching at a stop sign, slamming on the gas and careening 
 around at twice the legal speed limit. It's fast, it's sudden and it serves up the adrenaline that 
 many racers out there live for.
  
  EA brings the experience home again for the second installment of the Need For Speed Underground 
 series. The game has had its insides tuned up a bit since we last explored it. Some parts have 
 been swapped out, a few more chrome items have been added for flavor and a couple of key features 
 have been upgraded. Change is usually good, but just because something can be done, it doesn't 
 always mean it should be done.
  
  So what's the verdict on EA's new ride? Well, it's not bad, but it ain't a trophy winner.
  
 
  The biggest upgrade in NFS: Underground 2 is the free-roaming style of play. Rather than just 
 bouncing you between different sections of the city like its predecessor, the game allows you to 
 roam a sizable city in search of the perfect ride and the means to get it. You'll participate in 
 various organized events as well as a few impromptu exercises while hunting down hidden tuner shops 
 throughout the city.
  
  This open-ended setup acts as a double-edged sword. On one hand, it allows you to explore a huge 
 city at will. Performance, graphics, specialty shops and more are scattered all over the place. 
 You can even take part in hidden underground races for extra coin. It's a good move for the series 
 and makes it all feel more realistic.
  
  The downside is that it can take a while to get where you want to go. Sometimes the shop or race 
 event you're looking for is nowhere near your location and you'll need to cruise across town to 
 get there. This isn't so bad during the first few hours of the game since you'll be hunting down 
 hidden shops along the way, but after you've found them all, the excessive travel time can be a 
 drag. The game could have benefited from a "jump" feature, perhaps even allowing you to warp to 
 select points in the city, but as it stands, you'll just have to deal with the commute.
  
  Another new feature in Underground 2 is the Race Breaker. Cars outfitted with a nitrous kit will 
 regain spent N2O by performing impressive racing techniques like drifting and drafting. This feature, 
 used strategically, can mean the difference between victory and defeat (especially in Drag Races) , 
 making for some truly nail-biting finishes.
  
  Speaking of Drag Races, they're back and as awesome as ever. These put you in a tight battle with 
 a few other cars that test your reflexes, shifting ability and speed. The race may travel in a 
 straight line, but obstacles will jump out in front of you without warning. Fast-paced and exciting, 
 Drag Racing is still one of the game's best features.
  
  Many of the other race types make a return. Tackle a few laps through sections of the city in Circuit, 
 hit the point to point in Sprint and slide around tight corners in the Drift competition. The Knockout 
 races from the original game have been replaced by Street X, where you'll race on a small, close-quarters 
 drift track. Underground Racing League (URL) events let you race tournament-style on an enclosed 
 track with no traffic involved.
  
  It wouldn't be much of an underground racing game without plenty of performance tuning, and NFSU 
 2 thankfully lets you tweak suspension, engine, brakes, etc. endlessly. This time around, though, 
 you can focus much more attention on the aesthetics of your ride. Body Shops are available for 
 a large selection of kits, spoilers and wheels, Graphics Shops handle the paint and vinyls and 
 specialized Customization shops will add a little extra flair with neons, audio/visual systems 
 and custom doors. Each upgrade increases your 'Star' rating, which will earn you spots on magazine 
 and DVD covers. This means you won't be really be able to cruise through the game with a sleeper 
 car, but where's the fun in that?
  
  NFSU 2 starts you off with the regular selection of low-end tuners like the ubiquitous Ford Focus 
 and Toyota Corolla, but you'll gradually evolve to better rides like the Supra, G35 and Skyline. 
 It takes a while for you to get out of your first ride, but as soon as you get a real car, the 
 game really picks up. The addition of SUVs rounds out the choices, but most tuners will want to 
 stick to the more typical four-wheeled rockets.
  
  Regardless of your ride, the other cars will not show any mercy. The computer-controlled opponents 
 are generally aggressive, shoving you out of the way and bumping you into spins, but sometimes 
 they go a little haywire. The A. I. has a tendency to crash right off the bat, which can delay your 
 start. A little more polish here would have helped tremendously.
  
  The same can be said of the game's graphics, which are mostly good. The car models are done well 
 and the expansive city is rendered in nice detail. Effects like the nitrous burst and the wet streets 
 aren't as surprising this time around, but they still make the game pop. The predictable rain effect, 
 however, is pretty pathetic, as it looks like the rain is only falling over your car. I also take 
 issue with the aggravating lack of damage-modeling, which, after games like Burnout 3, makes NFSU 
 2 look like a prude. The PC, PS2 and Xbox versions of the game all hold up with solid framerates, 
 but the Gamecube version falls noticeably flat.
  
  The purple box also fails to provide the online component available in every other version of the 
 game. You can take on other gamers in any of the game's races or just cruise around and show off 
 your ride in Free Run mode. Full ranking and matching makes the online experience a good one.
 
  
  NFSU 2 features a pretty odd mix of tunes that skew mostly toward rock and techno, but you also 
 get an odd track here and there like Snoop's remake of Riders on the Storm. The sound effects are 
 fine, although the stock cars sound awfully burly.
  
  I hope you don't mind being blitzkrieged with ads, because NFSU 2 is thick with sponsorships. Some 
 of them make perfect sense (Bilstein Shocks and Auto Zone, for example) , but ads for restaurants 
 and financial planning groups takes the product placement to obnoxious lows. Since we're the ones 
 who have to stare at the ads endlessly, how about at least cutting us in on all that cash coming 
 in the back door, EA?
  
  Cheap money-making schemes notwithstanding, Need for Speed Underground 2 does a pretty good job 
 capturing the tuner scene with fast races and flashy cars. However, some lingering A. I. issues 
 and the excessive time it takes just to get where you need to go keeps this ride from shifting 
 to fifth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingMeier
Rating: 7.7
Date: Dec 18, 2005 9:12 pm PT
Review:  NFS 2 Underground is a okay game but could have been better. The graphics are good but when the 
 vehicles crash into one other don't expect debris flying around. It looks like hotwheel car toys 
 slamming into each other. The music is a mixture of Hip-Hop and Pop or Alternative. The game takes 
 a long time to beat (this is in career mode) . When you think that you have finally come to the 
 end..... new events pop up before you. It gets tiring after awhile. When you beat some courses you 
 will unlock some of the game's performance upgrades for the vehicles. You can also change the appearance 
 of your vehicle on the outside as well, which is nice. Neon lights, bumpers, tail lights, rims, 
 spoilers, etc.
  
  The voice acting is not bad but the choice on words is a bit silly and after awhile, depening on 
 you, it gets annoying. The song of the vehicles engines are okay.
  
  This game is more enjoyable when you are competing online are on a LAN.
  
  This game is worth 
 buying and playing. I would reccommend this to any gamer.
  
  From,
  
  SirMeier
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jklemoyugi
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 16, 2005 3:07 pm PT
Review:  The games story is not better than the first underground but still .. pretty colourful. The game 
 continues from the point at the end of nfsu 1 where u you get smashed up in an accident. The story 
 is relayed bit by bit in comic book like cutscene fixtures. The cars are great. Amazingly realistic 
 . during races there is not much of an alternative route like in midnight club 2 but the game is 
 pretty good for a try and a must have for street racing game lovers. The game is a must have for 
 all consoles except gameboy advance, it is unusually crappy on gba. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mort2fire
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 11, 2005 12:07 pm PT
Review:  "winning is winning" Quotes from FAST AND FURIOS.
  
  which is basicly what this game is like.
  
  This is very good game and crushes the pedal to 
 the medal, elements of this game is:
  
  You start off with borrowing Rachels car, as your car gets wrecked in the short moive sequence.
 
  
  You drive round and earn some cash, before you return the car back to the so buteriful Rachel.
 
  She give you some more cash to help you on your way to buying a beggining car.
  
  Once out on the streets, you can join in different races, which are highlighted on the map,
  
 
  Different sort of races to challenge, to drift racing, drag racing, and to a quick sprint finish 
 race, plus others.
  
  Earning more cash, if you win it and you also get supponses to join up with and camera shoot outs.
 
  
  You have to race your car to the located site on the map for a photo shoot,
  get there in time and the sponse, let you join up with them.
  Waste time, lose your carrier.
 
  Some give out different options.
  Like one sponce will let you own the car for free, but that intales more races, and others you 
 have to buy the car, but you can drive there sponse car, depending on who they are.
  
  The races are really good fun, once at on the street, you will see other races, wanting to test 
 your car out, get past them and lose them down side streets, win and there sometimes give you hints 
 were the best places are, which then reveals a hidden area on the map, better garages etc...
  
  UPGRADE you car with full nitro and see your car FLY down the motor way, and slam on your hand 
 brake and see the car spin, for maxium spin points.
  
  Style your car with tranfers and logo names and then take your stylish car to the internet for 
 a race against other people on-line.
  Race for PINK SLIPS, you could be walking away with there car, lose and wave good bye to your CAR.
 
  
  Start again, unless you have more cars in your garage , then race them again and get your car back, 
 and take there car for insulting you.
  
  NEED FOR SPEED, only for games not for real life roads.
  
  JUST A Warning!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pokobo
Rating: 7.2
Date: Dec 9, 2005 10:37 pm PT
Review:  i Was highly anticipating this game after playing nfsug. I was looking foward to everything about 
 it, and i delivered in most aspects.
  
  Starting out, you are a racer knew to the scene in the city, you have to earn respect, reputation 
 blah blah blah. You start of with an O. K selection of cars but they are kind of crappy, as are 
 any cars when you start out in a game. You are sent out with this stock car doing some races and 
 earning cash to upgrade your ride. I feel this part is the most exciting since you are constantly 
 upgrading your car knowing that it will eventually be fully decked out. 
  
  The driving around in the game to find shops and races is definately annoying. Depending on ho 
 you are, you mightlike this feature at first, but as you get into the later stages of the game 
 it gets increasingly annoying as there are fewer races and you have to drive furthere distances 
 across the city to get to where you want to go. I think they should have had all the performance 
 upgrades in the garage to save you from having to search for shops etc. 
  
  The racing is incredibly easy, even on hard you can beat your opponents by a fair margin.
  
 
  There are thousands of upgrades and combinations you could have on your car, and this usually 
 saps a thick chunk out of the game time, since you spend more time trying to make your car look 
 pretty rather than racing. 
  
  The magazine and dvd thing is pretty pointless since it basically just offers cash rewards for 
 having a ranked car. 
  
  Multiplayer is ok, but gets a little boring after a while. 
  
  I think the main problem with this game was also the cars. They featured some pretty weak cars. 
 What the nfs series really needs is some muscle, and a bigger variety in styles.
  
  the graphics are a strong point in the game though, everything is shiny, glossy and wet. The motion 
 blur is also a great feature whichgives a really good sense of speed
  
  this game is worth the buy if your looking for something to satisfing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pell1979
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 7, 2005 11:26 pm PT
Review:  When I first started playing this game I didn't think much of it. The graphics didn't seem as sharp 
 as the original... then I remembered to turn off light and speed blurring...
  
  This game is as good as the original, and then some. Gone is the linear gameplay where you outfit 
 your ride and then run the next race in the line. Now you can choose to cruise the streets doing 
 not much else besides finding a few hidden shops, and street racing the occasional hoon you come 
 accross. Of course this is a slow way to make money because once you have proven yourself in a 
 few races (2 new race types in this game) you can get yourself a sponsor... and they pay well... 
 VERY well.
  
  My only beef with this game is the garage system. Gone are the days of only having one vehicle, 
 and trading up. Now you have a garage with up to 5 car slots. At the beginning you only get one, 
 but as the game progresses you unlock more via your sponsors. The main beef is once you have bought 
 a part for your car, and attach it, gone is its realistic value. You might have a dumped 200SX 
 in your garage fitted with a turbo kit, NOS, and a variety of visual effects (kit, neons, etc) 
 but if you run out of garage slots and you want a new ride, or are low on cash and want to upgrade 
 your new sweet ride, you're screwed. Gone is the days of selling a vehicle, you can only overwrite 
 it. Keep this in mind as you play the game, because every cred you spend is lost for all time.
 
  
  Besides this one glaring fault I still find this a VERY enjoyable game to play, especially head 
 to head with a friend running the streets... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CuteKiller
Rating: 6.3
Date: Dec 5, 2005 11:33 am PT
Review:  Need for speed underground was the first game in this serious street racing games. After that NFS 
 U2 came as the sequel of NFS U game. This game has more features this time.
  It gets one to customize your ride with a serious works under hoods as well as out, after you finish 
 the career mode you unlock all parts. 
  
  The Good part: Nice Speed essence, graphics and nice cars u got to customize
  A big city to roam 
 freely which is a new thing not to be seen in previous versions and some outrun challenges thats 
 the interesting part of the game. Good choice of races. Mountain Drift is newly added and Free 
 run where u can just chill in the city and its neighbourhood. BEST PART IS CUSTOMIZATION 
  
  The Bad part: First of all the story is a dump. It starts with a rough idea and ends like that 
 u will never know. That where u ended with a conclusion. The game becomes too boring after some 
 third level. Youll hate this game at the end. Coz the end is a crap. Nice sound effects and good 
 graphics this game doesnt satisfies the need for speed in the game. There is really need for speed 
 in underground racing games. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thatdot6
Rating: 7.3
Date: Dec 5, 2005 4:47 am PT
Review:  Need For Speed: Underground is more or less an average game... I was expecting this game to be 
 really good, but unfontunately, it that wasn't the case.
  
  The idea of having an open city to roam around it is a very good idea. But constantly having to 
 find races around the whole city gets a little boring.. The city could be a bit more detailed...
 
  
  The graphics in this game is pretty good... but seeing the same graphics over and over again gets 
 a bit boring.... there should be more variation... the visuals of the car rarely get seen in the 
 game... which is quite unfontunate... Overall the graphic is pretty good...
  
  The AI should be a bit harder.... in some of the races, I was in the lead by over a minute and 
 a half.... the AI isn't hard to catch up with... although in the outraces, the AI do perform some 
 tricky moves to show you...
  
  The gameplay is repetitive and somewhat boring after a while... there is too much pointless racing... 
 only the URLs are the airport contribute to the storyline... the cutscenes aren't any good... I 
 don't like the idea of creating the cutscenes like non-animated comics...
  
  The sound of the games is alright... some of the sound tracks in the game don't match the mood 
 of the game.... some of the songs make you fall asleep....
  
  Overall.. this isn't the most spectular game ever... I prefer the first NFSU than this one... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tsotcs
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 1, 2005 10:34 am PT
Review:  Racing games change a lot during last 2-3 years. From exotic car racing games NFS 1-6 every company 
 started setting the racing games in street racing environment. But no one really did a good job 
 until NFS Underground came out. Everyone was crazy about that game. It was near perfect. But now 
 when Underground 2 came out we saw that really the first was not good. It is because of the amount 
 of things they changed.
  
  First thing you will notice when you start a game is that it is an OPEN CITY game. It is a great 
 thing because Underground 1 lacked it. So that changes gameplay moderately. Now instead of buying 
 parts in the main menu, you have to drive to different stores to buy different parts, which adds 
 a little realistic feeling to the game. Also you drive to different icons to get different races 
 which is great. Also it is harder to get rich in the game. You really have to save money and think 
 about what you are buying now. And after 10 hours of playing I realized that the game is superb 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yuiitsu
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 29, 2005 1:49 pm PT
Review:  This game is pretty good but can be boring to some.
  
  Graphics:
  It rules the graphics its really good cars hold effects, as you add them
  
  Gameplay: 
  Very 
 good to be honest, when your NOS is on you can feel your actually on the roll on the fast roll, 
 you can "do up your car" and make it look awesome depending on how far you get as you go further 
 more cars and items get unlocked
  
  Sound:
  AMAZING there are some immense beats in this game for the rockers and for the jammers theres a 
 bit for everyone they worked hard with sound fair play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ariel_king
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 29, 2005 10:26 am PT
Review:  I played this game and I was really impresed.
  
  Gameplay: You get a car in the beginning and then you go out, racing other cars. You can get a 
 lot of money and upgrade your car and you can even buy cars.
  
  Graphics: The city looks unbelivible big and beautiful. The cars are excelent and the woman that 
 starts the race is beautiful (if you know what I mean) .
  
  Sound: The sound of the cars are beautiful and the music is awsome. Too bad that there isn't like 
 GTA that you can turn channels in your radio in your car.
  
  Value: You can play for hours and hours trying to win all races, get a lot of money and make your 
 car the best in the city. Too bad that there isn't an online feature that you can race against 
 each other.
  
  Reviewer's tilt: Overall this game is an awsome racing game and you should definitely buy this 
 game if you are a racing fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gurnis0
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 21, 2005 6:10 am PT
Review:  First you are nothing. Then you are something. You must drive and win. Graphics is very good if 
 you have very good videocard. I hav 256 mb videocard and i can play this game on higest graphics. 
 Better vidocard gives you more options like people, blur screen and more... I compleat this game 
 in 1 week, not 100% but yust compleate. There is very big diferent things when your car is tuned 
 to max and when you hav yust car. Nisan Skyline can reatch 170 when its yust car and 387 when its 
 tuned to maximum. So its big diferents. This NFS is good, but next must be better and better and....... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oamorap
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 19, 2005 10:31 am PT
Review:  Si, el juego es muy bueno, pero ahhhh es casi la misma cosa que el underground 1, salvo las cosas 
 que voy a enumerar, el juego es exactamente la misma cosa.
  
  Primero: ahora todo se desarrolla dentro de una ciudad, que se va desbloqueando a medida que se 
 avanza. Segundo: hay nuevos tipos de carreras, los derrapes en montaa, la calle X y el URL (Underground 
 Racing League) que son carreras pero legales (creo) . Tercero: ahora se pueden tener hasta 5 carros.
 
  
  De resto es lo mismo, hasta es mas facil, en el underground 1 habia carreras jodidas jodidas, en 
 este no, todas son faciles y el carro es mas facil de manejar, mejor dicho es mas arcade que simulador.
 
  
  Pa resumir, el juego es bueno, pero no deja de ser una secuela.
  
  oamorap 
::::::

::::::
UserName: viper_najem
Rating: 7.1
Date: Nov 13, 2005 12:41 pm PT
Review:  NFS has been around for a while. It had some identity crisis problems, like balancing between arcade 
 and simulation. Sometimes you have a feeling the series cant really decide whether its a real 
 driving simulator (Underground 2 is definitely not a simulation!) , or an action racing game.
  
  In Underground II, the biggest attraction is the so called open-ended gameplay that takes 
 place in a big city. Unfortunately, with games like GTA this city seems more like a town. You 
 will unlock most sections in no time, and, with the exception of some highly challenging drift 
 sequences later in the game, Underground 2 lacks any real challenge.
  
  The graphics engine utilizes a strategy of the more makeup and ornaments all over the place, the 
 better. Unfortunately, even your average run-of-mill short-sighted book worm can see through that. 
 Take away all the flashes, blur effects, lighting, etc And youre left with an average looking 
 title
  
  The soundtrack is a killer, featuring stars like The Doors with Snoop Doggy Dog, L. A. X., and many 
 more Its really varied and has something for everyone. Sound effects are a bit good and one can 
 easily say that sound is Underground 2s strongest point all around.
  
  If youre looking for an excellent All flash, no substance title, then this game is for you. 
 Otherwise dont bother. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ed_mage
Rating: 6.3
Date: Nov 8, 2005 4:48 am PT
Review:  Need for Speed has a nice graphics and effects. Its major downside is the limitted racing tracks. 
 I am tired of playing the same scence in the big city. The sounds are good. Just like any other 
 racing that game that I played nothing so much about this. Still, if you want to have a past time 
 just like the arcades, give urself a time for this game, but I presume this is not the addictive 
 game for most car racing fanatics. I hope that next NFS would be not as dull as this one and has 
 a variety of scenery. Try GTA, still the BEST car racing game ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aiman24
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 8, 2005 1:44 am PT
Review:  by far the best need for speed game. Underground 2 takes you to a whole new level of gameplay that 
 when you play it it wilol take your mind of off anything you were thinking about.
  Customize cars like you have never customized them... do whatever you want.... with all the colours, 
 vinyles, spoilers, hoods, rims, spinners etc. Unlimited amout of racing. You can roe\am around the 
 city while in story mode... and everything is all cool. the game is all good from the time you start 
 playing it till the end... whenever that comes.. and until the new nfs: wanted comes out this will 
 probably be the best car game there is.
  The soundtracks are even better than the previous underground... actually everything is better than 
 the previus undergorund... buy it you wont regret it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bulls666666333
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 8, 2005 1:26 am PT
Review:  it had got the better things that a original driving game like it requires 
  
  The trash Begins here ---------- 
  
  ANAHEIM, CA -- We got a taste of the new World of Warcraft 
 expansion firsthand today at Blizzcon. In particular, we got to play around with the new Blood 
 Elf starting area in Quel'thelas. As you can see from the screenshots, the art style of the new 
 area and the elves themselves is very reminiscent of Teldrassil, the Night Elf starting area from 
 the original World of Warcraft. The primary difference is that the weather in Quel'thelas seems 
 sunnier and less dark than the skies of Teldrassil and Ashenvale, with more reddish and orange 
 hues as opposed to a purplish tone. The area of Quel'thelas offers a lush, woodsy feel, with trees 
 intermixed among the Blood Elf structures, some of which extend high up into the sky. The structures 
 contain a lot of winding ramps and clickable portals to allow you to move around the high platforms. 
 Six classes are available to the Blood Elves, including priests, mages, warlocks, warriors, hunters, 
 and rogues. The latter two were unavailable for play at the show. We chose to be a warlock as we 
 explored the new area. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkside5001
Rating: 7.7
Date: Nov 5, 2005 9:01 pm PT
Review:  A mediocre game. Driving between race to race is irritating and annoying, there is a good variety 
 of cars and race types though which help keep the game fresh and fun. If your planning on buying 
 Need for Speed Underground 2 get it on the PC. Its cheaper aswell as better. The graphics are great 
 and the music is alright altough I prefer my own cds as its less repetitive. The storyline takes 
 you around Bayveiw as you try and become a well known underground streetracer. Getting on the cover 
 of magazines and dvd covers is also fairly fun.
  
  Race Types:
  
  Circuit: A lap or 2 around a large track as you use speed, NOS and maneauvering skills to outrace 
 your opponent.
  
  Drift: A fun little game type in which you must powerslide around a track to build up points.
 
  
  Drag: My favourite type of race, use nos and time your gear shifts to excel past your opposing 
 racers.
  
  There are several other types of racers to. In summary its worth the buy, just make sure to turn 
 stability control ON unlike me :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deamonsofthefal
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 31, 2005 12:37 pm PT
Review:  need for speed underground 2 is the predesessor of the gr8 and cool need for speed seares ulthough 
 the game play is taken from midnight club II but the on street shops thing is cool in a way but 
 ull have to travel gr8 distences just to see whats new in veniles though they might not be that 
 cool
  some times the game AI becomes crazy on you and the ai cars speeds exceed 400 if they are very 
 far behind but if ure in the lead and not far away the ai is soooooo easy
  lights and texturs are cool catchy but not tierdy to the eye
  the music is cool but not as cool 
 as the first sequel 
  anyways its a gr8 game to play 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FameSpot
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 24, 2005 9:46 pm PT
Review:  I don't know what beer-bellied, balding, pasty-skinned mountain folk they have working at EA, but 
 they have absolutely no concept of urban culture nor even car racing culture. It's as if they watched 
 The Fast and The Furious while programming and based the entire game on emulating that film. The 
 dialogue is laughably bad, the slang is so forced that its pathethic. And what the hell does Brooke 
 Burke have to do with illegal street racing? And why are the cutscenes styled like a comic books? 
 Comic books? Brooke Burke? WHAT THE HELL?!
  
  The racing is solid, but the environment feels very hard, you can't really slide along a gate or 
 even the curb as you grind to a halt. This makes the game seem rather primitive when compared to 
 other modern racers which are more forgiving when it comes to swapping paint with the environment.
 
  
  EA's licensed music is top notch, as it was in the first game, and is categorized by genre for 
 different modes, scuch as using hip-hop for menus and car customization. Rock and electronic music 
 fill out the races with their faster beats.
  
  On the PC, this controls surprisingly well with no lag in response, but since it was a port of 
 the console game, little has been made tro accomodate point and click. I can complain about the 
 interface for hours. Anyways, the graphics simply arent up to snuff as the game was desinged for 
 much lower-resolution consoles (PS2, GC, XBOX) and on the PC it runs smooth and clear with no hint 
 of slow-down, but looks lame compared to Half-LIfe 2, F. E. A. R., Battlefield 2, etc. With so many 
 mind-blowing game engines for the PC today, it seems odd that EA would port the game without refining 
 anything. Nevertheless, the city is rather strange as it tries to emulate New York, Miami, Las 
 Vega and Los Angeles all at the same time. There are some nice graphical touches such as faint 
 trails from oncoming headlights, which occlude oncoming traffic, just as bright lights do in reality.
 
  
  Sadly, this game can be reviewed in a shoulder shrug and an indifferent tilt of the head. There's 
 really nothing making it stand out. The races are fast, but there's nothing else beyond them. Once 
 youd drifted a few turns you've drifted them all. Beyond mindless races there is little else to 
 keep your interest and releasing this game as an ugly port was just an insult to anyone who spent 
 more on their video card than their rent :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jcohenx
Rating: 4.7
Date: Oct 23, 2005 9:27 pm PT
Review:  I've been a big NFS fan since High Stakes and really liked NFSU-1 but this game was very disappointing 
 for three big reasons. 
  
  Firstly, upgrading parts requires driving all over town to buy them. In NFSU-1, upgrades were instantly 
 available after winning enough races. Also, half the parts available are what I consider "fluff" 
 like hydraulics, stereo components, and headlight colors. I mean honestly, who cares? If I'm going 
 to spend half my time driving around to buy stuff, I want it to enhance my ride.
  
  Secondly, the downhill drift competitons are incredibly frustrating. I like a game that is challenging 
 but winning the downhill drifts in the Heights are strongly depending on the luck of the draw if 
 oncoming traffic happens to be in the right "zone" to get the most points. You'll find yourself 
 replaying the same drifts over and over again just to squeak by with the passing score.
  
  Thirdly, what the *# ($) # is up with the nasty, skanky hoes on the mag covers. I wouldn't lean my 
 bicycle against them. "Yo! Could you please get out of my shot, you're ruining it for the rest 
 of us!" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chickenalp
Rating: 5.3
Date: Oct 22, 2005 6:20 am PT
Review:  this game was very dissapointing. theres only 1 city and it s small and the only cars u can have 
 are suvs or tuners no exotics and hardly any custimization u either had to race someone or win 
 a tournament just to unlock new parts that hardly made any difference in performance never buy 
 this game rent it ..... at gamefly .com where everything is delivered in one business day and one 
 more thing i forgot to mention the graphics were amazing and also the sound but its to repetitive 
 dont believe anybody when they tell u to buy this im just repeating everything cuz i have nothing 
 else to say and i cant sumit till i hav at least 100 words so if anything i say has nothing to 
 do with nfsu then dont read after the word repetitive cuz this here makes no sense 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkbengamer
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 22, 2005 5:24 am PT
Review:  An instantly addictive awesome street racing game. However it is too short too easy and there aren't 
 enough cars. But don't let that put you off, because it is quite possibly the best street racer 
 there is! The modding is almost unlimited with millions of things you can do to each car, from 
 roof scoops to turbo kits, you could (if it had this car) turn a relient robin into a car capable 
 of competing with a DB9 (if they had that on the game aswell) . The story line on the game makes 
 it more interesting to. The next version looks even better! highly recommended! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gopsu_2k
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 22, 2005 3:02 am PT
Review:  U look at the game and u feel gr8 the GRAPHICS r GOOD ,u have GOOD GAMEPLAY too and there is even 
 brooke in the game. But u start playing and things start to fall apart for starters u get bored 
 of the slangs used it gets too monotonus u really get sick of hearing "DAWG" and "BRO" and the 
 likes. The story is progresed by the use of comics which i give a thumbs up for the ORIGINALITY 
 in a NEED FOR SPEED game but it also starts getting booring. in easy mode any good games will be 
 able to easilly win. My fav type of race is DRAG but even there i found a problem. Driving through 
 traffic was a gr8 process but I felt that it took u away from the rush u get when u look back and 
 see ur friend or foe ride up behind u trying to get u in ur slipstream. THEN the BIGGEST problem 
 i felt was the length of the story i stoped the game 2 times just coz i got bored of of playing. 
 u spent a lot of time running from one 1 race to another 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tibbs17
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 20, 2005 9:32 pm PT
Review:  Inserting the disk and seeing none other than Brooke Burke headed off NFS2 in the right direction. 
 The Games high quality racing element and cutomization options make this a sure play for any underground 
 race fan.
  
  Starting off your ride is looking weak and couldnt beat an average New York Taxi Cab in a drag 
 race. However, over time you earn money in races and can buy upgradable parts for your engine, 
 tires, and other parts of your car.
  
  The real bulk of the game starts when you open up more of the city and are allowed to challenge 
 other racers to quick sprints for cash or compete in major racing events.
  
  The customization options and awesome racing gameplay make this game that much better than the 
 original.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Napster06
Rating: 5.8
Date: Oct 20, 2005 8:07 pm PT
Review:  One of the worst sequels that was ever made. Totally abysmal. EA should have made it better. The 
 game play was OK, but when you have to roam and search for races and shops, that was what made 
 the game boring. It was 100% arcade; no car physics no damage, just cars, thats it. The only thing 
 that it could brag about is the assortment of vehicles. Without them, I dont think the game will 
 even make it to the shelves. 
  
  The cities are great but I think its a bit too much. Instead or using normal city layouts, it 
 uses a layout somewhat like a futuristic one. Roads whizzes by each other, it banks and rises, 
 all to make it unreal. And the traffic is also extremely scarce. It was like driving around in 
 a ghost town. If EA could develop Burnout, why shouldnt they focused too on the NFS?
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zyndrex90
Rating: 7.7
Date: Oct 19, 2005 7:48 pm PT
Review:  This game Is pretty good but we have seen way too often. A good racing game, couple street races 
 and stuff, going from bad cars to good cars, we've seen it all before.
  This game does make you feel like a street racer, but if we saw at least a police car that would 
 be good. The game is far too repetitive with the challenges, and some of them can be quite annoying 
 until you actually get the hang of it.
  This game's strongest point would be the car building. You can make any kind of car and it does 
 make you feel good to play in a well made car. However the first options are quite simple so its 
 not until near the middle of the game you can make the car you had in mind. Sometimes if your car 
 is very good looking it will be featured in magazines or videos.
  With the good comes the bad, and this game was missing this a lot. Crash impacts. Whenever you 
 hit someone sparks will fly, but... no extra damage. nothing big; and that is quite a turnoff.
 
  
  Game is pretty good, but its not until your far into the game you will start liking it, and most 
 people will get bored with it before they can get into the fun part. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snakesxj220
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 19, 2005 6:18 pm PT
Review:  I am a huge fan of the need for speed series. This was by far the best one yet. It has a new free 
 roam environment. You get to choose which races you want. It also has one of the greatest custimization 
 set of options for your car. The storyline is kind of lame, but the races are fast paced and are 
 extremely fun. However, this game is kind of easy. I finished it in 12 days with 2 hours of gameplay 
 each day. It has a lot of new cars as well and Brooke Burke as a main character. This racing game 
 has a lot to offer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gkraju
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 15, 2005 8:56 pm PT
Review:  This game is definetly a good game. The game play and graphics are cool. The biggest drawback of 
 the game is the running around places to find the races which is damn boring in the career mode. 
 One has to constantly keep driving for everything that we need including shops. This could have 
 been made extremely interesting if there were police pursuits while roaming around the city finding 
 races and shops. I hope that is what EA is trying to do in NFS MW and hope so. All parts and cars 
 get unlocked in the early fifth stage itself but we still have to play the complete career in order 
 ro unlock all the tracks in quick race. The game seems great in the start but gets boring due to 
 lack of police between races and constantly running throughout bayview to catch the races and photographs 
 sometimes gets the nerve out of you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: titomag
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 15, 2005 6:10 am PT
Review:  well i love playing ilicit street racing games, and Need for speed Underground 2 is a game that 
 brings plenty of street racing satisfaction.
  when i first saw my friend play it on his PS2, i knew i had to own this game, i had downloaded 
 and played the demo on my pc and the game looked even better than the PS2 (duh) the graphics are 
 amazing, these cars shine and rev-up real fast, if you love Fast and the Furious movie you will 
 love this game. The nitrous effect blows me away and the world detail is incredible. The musical 
 soundtrack is good for everyone with rock, rap, and techno, you can also remove tracks that you 
 dont want to hear while playing. The sound effects are a good reason to leave the first Underground 
 game behind, once you mod up your ride you can actually notice the difference by the sound of the 
 engine and the exhaust pipe. The cars are easy to control, even when driving in its top speed, 
 one thing i didnt like is when racing in a Drag Race when you start driving and some times you 
 cant move your car to were you want it to turn. The online feature is well done, you get an EA 
 messenger to add, find and chat with friends, there is a LAN option also. Now in the story i wish 
 it had the mvies like the first Underground game, now all ya will see is a comic book. EA added 
 some reall nice cars, old to new even some SUV's. The game should have had more things to mod up 
 your ride you mostly see the same body kits and vynils as the other, but theyere are new things 
 added of course, like adding a sound system, spinners (rims that spin even when your ride isnt' 
 moving) and hydrolics. One really cool feature that adds alot of gameplay is that you can tweak 
 your car's engine, turbo, ECU, and other parts to satisfy your need for speed. You also get to ride 
 around the city in free world mode and challenge other cars roaming around the city and race with 
 no rules, the game has its old race modes and new one's like street x, downhill drift and URL mode 
 wich is something like Grand turismo. This game has plenty to offer for those who never owned the 
 first game, and if you own the first one... sell it.... and get this one you wont regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amardeshbd
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 13, 2005 2:12 pm PT
Review:  this is the BEST of NFS Series........ 
  the NFS Undergroung 2...
  there is huge advancement from the NFS underground to the NFS underground 2. The grapgics, gameplay 
 and so on.
  it's still the best of the NFS series !!
  i really like the game !!! 
  its new idea of getting into the race......
  and mostly the HEAD 2 HEAD challange !!
  i enjoy 
 the 'Drift' and 'Sprint ' ..... Drag is a bit tough !!
  overall ! it's good...... and .... one thing o forgot to metion !
  it's story line is also exciting...... 
 makes challanging ! (Y)
  i enjoy that sooooo.... much !!
  and looking forward for NFS : Most Wanted
  which would be more exciting !!
  bcoz it's all about 
 chasing the COPs !! [Virtually] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jazzy42
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 10, 2005 3:50 pm PT
Review:  Need For Speed Underground2
  
  
  
  This game adds new features and are much differnt from the last one. There is now a "free roam"system 
 in which you travel travel the city in your ride. New cars have been added for extra fun gameplay 
 so there is no more boring 20 or less cars, for example: the Ford Mustang GT, mitshibishi 3000 GT, and 
 much more have been added .The heavy cars are a challenge to drive but the Hummer H3 and Cadillac 
 Escalade can be tricked out with no effort. Despite the lack of frustrating gameplay and the long 
 waited release date this is on to pick up if you're a racing fan. If you're not, stick to halo for 
 your sake.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sillygostly
Rating: 5.4
Date: Sep 3, 2005 5:28 am PT
Review:  There's nothing too astounding about 'Need For Speed Underground 2', you're basically taking full 
 control of a car in some big city with very little to do than to drive around, and engage in some 
 competitions earning money to purchase parts for your car. The plus side is there's an ENORMOUS 
 range of goodies for your vehicle, however, if you're not much into cars (i. e. Me) , then you probably 
 wouldn't care for it.
  
  What really annoys me about this game is that your car doesn't get damaged. Although cut scenes 
 displayed when your car collides with another car is definately fun to watch, it's just not very 
 rewarding.
  
  The only reason why I got this game is cause it came as a bonus with a deal at 'Pizza Hut' (Australia) .
 
  
  The graphics are really sweet to look at and they can be altered if your video card isn't quite 
 strong enough to handle the slick visuals of Underground 2.
  
  I'm glad I didn't pay much for this game, cause if I paid the suggested retail price of AUD$68.84, 
 i'd want my money back. However, if you're a car lover, and love customising vehicles, then pick 
 this one up when it gets real cheap. :-) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reedler1234
Rating: 8.6
Date: Sep 2, 2005 4:49 pm PT
Review:  Need for speed underground 2 has a lot of cars to unlock and parts for the cars and many different 
 types of races which you cn change and reverse and also many tracks that you can unlock and drive 
 on for fun which really is fun.
  
  There are many cars which are new and old which you can buy and unlock in the short but engaging 
 story mode, in which you drive around like how you do in GTA and you can choose which race you 
 want to do at that point in time and do it, win cash and customise your car.
  
  Randomly, you will be asked to come and show off your car to be put on the cover on a DVD or magazine 
 which is fun aswell as rewarding and counts towards the 100% completion of the game which isnt 
 hard to do.
  
  There are many races such as drag, drift and street x which are all very fun and new, although 
 they get very repetetive but its all good because you can buy another car and race which is like 
 a completely different track because all of the cars drive very differently.
  
  This is one of the best racing games, its very arcady, if youre looking for simulation then avoid 
 this at all costs and get gran turismo 4. if youre looking for an arcade racer get this without 
 thinking twice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WolksWagen
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 22, 2005 2:03 am PT
Review:  Taking place in a massive, free-roaming city featuring five distinct interconnected neighbourhoods, 
 Need for Speed Underground 2 delivers an immersive game world where the streets are your menus. 
 As players explore the city, theyll encounter rival racers who will school them in the ways of 
 the underground and tip them off to the hottest racing spots in town.
  
  Last year EA released the new game in its Need For Speed series, the Need for Speed Underground. 
 The game was radically different from all previous NFS series games. The first game in the series, 
 which took the racing from super exotics racing around the large country style tracks, to the new 
 level of street racing, based in a city and at night. 
  
  The sequel, Need For Speed Underground 2 gives the same attitude but with all new game play options.
 
  
  STORYThe game starts off where the NFSU ended. You were involved in a car crash which was carried 
 out by the rivals and now you are starting all over, and your first step is moving to the new city, 
 Bayview. The game tried to unfold new street racing career with story to support with in NFSU2. 
 The first new thing you will notice in the game is 2D cut scenes, similar to that we saw in Max 
 Payne but its not used as effectively as it was in Max Payne. This 'comic stripping' effect had 
 gamers complaining a lot as they preferred the older animated videos.
  The story wasn't that good, however just having a story gave it a few marks 4/10
  
  SOUND The 
 audio in this game, well I guess it is done pretty good. If you were wondering about the confusion, 
 it is because I believe that the audio relating to the sound effects, engine noises and audio like 
 that are done very well. However I believe that the soundtrack to this game is pure faecal matter. 
 But you can always turn off songs that you don't like, or do what I did and remove all music and 
 just play some other songs in the background
  If they had a better soundtrack, the sound score would have gotten very high 7/10
  
  
  GRAPHICS 
 They haven't improved that much since the original and those graphics are now outdated. The cars 
 look nice and detailed and car reflection is beautiful. The newly constructed city looks great, 
 and most corners are built to be able to taken fast. 7/10
  
  GAMEPLAY The game play is similar to the original, but there has been leaps and bounds in the changes. 
 You now races around to races/stores and special events instead of travelling through a menu. In 
 addition there are few U. R. L, Underground Racing League. This is nothing but the tournament mode 
 that we saw in the NFSU1 and usually fetches big money. Even though the races are located on the 
 map, actual racing doesnt start on the open street but a circuit is loaded similar to that of 
 NFSU1. Also the upgrade parts are unlocked on winning particular races. There are plenty of races 
 and it can take a while to complete all races and move on to next stage or to unlock a performance 
 or visual upgrade.
  However, there is a flaw in the game, the only fun parts are when you start racing and when you 
 are near completing the game, and the middle section of the game is annoyingly repetitive and makes 
 the interest level of the player very low, this then leads to many people not being bothered to 
 finish the game. 
  The game play has increased from the original, however the fact that the game gets boring seems 
 to lower the score 8/10
  
  REPLAYABILITY I think that this can be put into two sections
  Offline: Offline, after you complete the game, you probably won't feel like playing it again. And 
 also people don't even finish the game as it gets boring.
  1/10
  Online: Online, on the other hand is much better, as we get to race with people of all different 
 attitudes and characteristics, and this is quite fun.
  7/10
  
  CONCLUSION
  
  Total Average: 5 2/3
  Total Score: 7
  
  This game is what Need For Speed Underground 1 should 
 have been, and I recommended that you rent it first before you actually decide to buy it. I believe 
 that if this game were given to another company, for example SEGA or Rockstar, they would have 
 developed a much better game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: agefreak
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 12, 2005 12:17 pm PT
Review:  Many racing genre fans fondly remember a certain Need For Speed Underground, released last year, 
 as the best Racing title for the PC. The game worked really well, combining the right level of 
 car customization with decent track design, a challenging AI, and impressive graphics. EA ties 
 up with Black Box Studios to bring its sequel (Underground games just gotta have sequels!!) , NFSU2. 
 Although the launch of the game was marred by some inadequate publicity, it is a game which will 
 nevertheless make hardcore fans sit up and take notice. Thats because this is one of those rare 
 occasions when EA has tried to take a leaf (or should I say plenty of leaves) out of the other 
 popular racing titles, and has tried to create a perfect blend of everything on offer. The end 
 result  Ill say its getting there!
  
  
  Welcome to Bay View  home of the toughest illegal street racers youll find. At least thats what 
 your .. um.. aide claims. 
  
  Uh. The aide. Right. Remember Samantha from NFSU? She was that gal who got you into the Underground 
 Racing mode, and sorta guided you through it. Well, apparently, youre forced to flee the city 
 after threats from some gang right after you won the final Underground event. So you run away to 
 Bay View (of all the places) , where coincidentally, Samantha has an invaluable contact in the form 
 of Rachael (Brooke Burke) . So, here we go again. Another city of mean racers to take care of! Need 
 for Speed Underground 2 tries to inject a story into your career mode using static-image cutscenes, 
 which are similar to Max Paynes Graphic Novel, although with a lesser impressive outcome. The 
 story isnt anything to write home about, and as in a racing title, shouldnt really be. 
  
  The City. Well, thats where the game stands out. NFSU players had one common complaint  the 
 tracks were too repetitive. So in NFSU2, players are provided with an entire city at their disposal 
 (a la Midnight Club II) . In the explore mode, there are no barriers (provided youve unlocked them!) . 
 You can follow any route to your destination. Of course, this does tend to get a bit tiring at 
 times, coz the citys just too big!!
  
  All events in the game (like Races, time trials, photo sessions etc.) have to be driven to. Its 
 sort of a partial blend of MC2 and GTA3 (without the character, of course) . You'll also have to 
 drive to different parts shops to customize your ride -- in fact, you'll have to find most of the 
 game's shops by cruising around the city, looking for the right type of colored lights. The game 
 gives you an onscreen map, but shops don't show up until you've found them, and some races don't 
 actually appear on the map, either. Tough luck!!
  
  On paper, this whole open-city thing sounds like an interesting idea. In practice, driving around 
 the city might become a real drag that keeps you out of the action longer than you'd like. The 
 game rarely takes advantage of the open city for racing purposes, staging a majority of its events 
 on preset tracks, rather than adopting a Get there however you can style. Its pretty well thought 
 out actually. Using the open city for racing might not have appealed to some. There's a menu in 
 the garage that lets you jump to a handful of different events, but most races don't show up here, 
 and none of the shops do, either, making it completely useless. 
  
  
  You'll start out in some pretty slow cars, so the racing isn't very exciting until you earn enough 
 for a full set of upgraded performance parts. But once you've done so, the racing is fun and the 
 cars handle well. In fact, the overall handling of cars is much better than NFSU. The cars are 
 fast, and thankfully, are quite well balanced. Like in NFSU, there are a handful of different race 
 modes: Circuit races are long lap-based events, sprints take you from point A to point B on a set 
 course, drag racing lets blast down a quarter mile at a time, and drift races rank you based on 
 your style. Additions in this year's game include The Street X races, which are essentially regular 
 races that take place on drift tracks. Outrun races take place in various parts of the city - you 
 roll up behind another racer, tap a button, and then try to pass and outrun him or her (MC2 anyone??) . 
 You'll also encounter a few time trials, in which you'll have to get from one point in the city 
 to another before a photographer leaves the area. Make it, and you'll get to put your car on the 
 cover of one of the game's magazines or DVDs and get a generous helping of cash. Another new race 
 type is the URL (underground racing league) . Although theyre essentially circuit races with proper 
 racetrack scenery, according to the games cutscenes, theyre the happening stuff behind the 
 games storyline. Go figure!!
  
  
  Though there are three different difficulty settings for the career mode. The AI is pretty decent. 
 However, it is pretty easy to beat, even at the hardest setting. Personally, I found the AI of 
 NFSU to be much more competitive. If you can use your nitrous boosts timely and cut corners effectively, 
 gaining the lead isn't very difficult, and the game doesn't seem to employ any heavy AI routines 
 to retake the lead from you, so you can usually stay in front without any trouble at all. To make 
 things more challenging, try turning on Catch Up. This option has its own problems. For instance, 
 on some tracks, the rubber-band nature of the AI cars becomes so obvious that you almost give up 
 the race out of sheer frustration. Me I just went through a bad case of keyboard bangs! NFSU2 
 also incorporates the ability to refill your NOS by gaining style points (Remember Burnout) . 
 Street X races are the most challenging, as it all comes down to how well you cut corners. 
  
  Graphically, NFSU2 showcases impressive car models, lighting and reflections. Crash damages 
 are still non-existent, even after countless debates on numerous message boards. For the most part, 
 the game keeps running at a smooth frame rate, even in the later stages, when you're moving much, 
 much faster. The graphics are quite similarly themed as compared to Need For Speed Underground, 
 but with more lighting, more trails, more effects and more particles. The shakey drag cameras, 
 the motion blur and all the other niceties which were bundled with the original installment, make 
 a comeback with NFSU2, although theyre a bit less pronounced than before. You still get blurring 
 at very high speeds or when you kick in the nitrous oxide, but more would have been better. Controls 
 are pretty much stable, although a Gamepad does wonders to your control. But the overall keyboard 
 controls have been given a brush up. 
  
  A big part of Need for Speed Underground 2 is the ability to customize your car's performance and 
 appearance. On the performance side, you'll purchase parts that have been organized into stages, 
 which gives the game an easy way to lock the better parts away from you until you're ready for 
 them. Parts fall into different categories, and upgradation is pretty much similar as in the previous 
 installment. You win races, earn cash, go to the performance shop, buy what you need, wash, rinse, 
 repeat, till youve got the meanest machine in the city. NFSU2 also give you the option of buying 
 parts individually. This option makes a big difference in some cases. Having a flashy car is the 
 only way to get noticed and end up on magazine and video covers. Your set of wheels are rated based 
 on a star system similar to NFSU, only slightly expanded. Spoilers, neons, vinyls, roof scoops, 
 spinner rims, custom gauges, and even speakers for your trunk are just some of the available modifications, 
 and they all help your car stand out. Clearly, car customizability is one area where EA has done 
 its homework!
  
  Sound effects in NFSU2 have been nicely done as always. Engine sounds show changes after upgrades, 
 and differ from one car to another. Other subtle sounds like the wind whizzing past you as you 
 blow down the street at 180 miles an hour add to the fun. The dialogue and voiceovers, however, 
 are sub-standard and definitely do not go well with the games Graphic Novel ( Max Payne) presentation 
 of the storyline. Brooke Burke, whos done the voice-overs for Rachael, is particularly ineffective, 
 going with the games presentation. Musically, Need for Speed Underground 2 is a bit below par. 
 It starts out with a Snoop Dogg remix of the Doors Riders on the Storm, which is, arguably, 
 the best opening sequence Ive ever heard in a game. Racing music is also licensed, but fails to 
 create much of an impact. I remember criticizing NFSUs policy of repeating 20 odd tracks again 
 and again, till they bore off your pants. NFSU2 sticks to the same philosophy, the only difference 
 being that the track selection is pretty awful!
  
  NFSU2 does build up on last years Racing Game of the Year. It shows improvements in plenty of 
 areas, and more importantly, in gameplay. It might not be perfection, but it comes much closer 
 than any other Racing game for the PC out there. If you loved NFSU, give its sequel a try. For 
 racing fans, theres no better option right now. There are plenty of loose ends here and there. 
 One might say that EA gave us what we wanted to be present in the original installment, but left 
 us wanting for much more. These guys love playing with our money, dont they!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dem0nslayer89
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jun 21, 2005 9:14 am PT
Review:  Need for Speed Underground 2 is a pretty good game, but there is a lot of things holding it down 
 from being a great game. First, the game is really good when you first start to play it, but then 
 it repeats its self over and over again. Don't get me wrong the things that you do in the game 
 are great, but sometimes when you do that same thing over and over again it gets old. The racing 
 is really fun but they pretty much do the same tracks over and over again. The other thing that 
 I didn't really like about this game is that they didn't have motion in the cut scenes. I know 
 they tried to make it look like it was a comic or something, but I liked it better when they had 
 motion in there cut scenes like the first Need for Speed Underground. On the other hand, I like 
 they made the cars look real and I like all of the upgrades that you can do. To me, customizing 
 your car is the best part of the game. I love it when games let you customize things. Also, the 
 controls are really easy to get use to. This game offers a lot of cars and it gives you a choice, 
 for the people who like that. I think that they could of tried a little bit harder on the graphics, 
 but it's still pretty good. This game is pretty long so it will keep you occupied. The other thing 
 that i like about this game is the smoke that the cars gives after you burn out. Another thing 
 that i didn't like about the game is the things that you do between of the races. It gets kind 
 of repetitive driving to places over and over again. Overall, this game is pretty good and is fun 
 while it lasts. This game is almost great, but not quite there yet. I am recommending this game 
 to people who like driving a lot, racing, and customizing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ccooke
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 4, 2005 4:01 pm PT
Review:  This is definatly alot easier than NFSU i dont know why. also it tends to be alot more boring with 
 the big open city and the miles between races. They did the same thing in dub edition and all the 
 midnight club games but it seems to work alot better because there is actually somthing to do in 
 them. anyway, you spend alot more of your time driving from place to place. And when u start off 
 u have no cars. the first one cant get over 40 MPH
  so you cant be in too many races until you unlock some more cars.
  
  The best part of this 
 is the online multiplayer. the car selection is pretty good and you can customize your ride for 
 free. Other than the online multiplayer this has not got much that will really apeal to anyone 
 exept when you FINALLY get to race.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sniper
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 21, 2005 2:53 pm PT
Review:  Playing Need for Speed Underground 2 is like eating popcorn or potato chips, because you can never 
 stop at a single race. "Just one more," you tell yourself. Twenty events later, it's 2:00 a. m. 
 Damn, this game is addictive!
  
  Let's get the nit-picking done first... Why is there no car damage? While NFSU2's sense of speed 
 is spectacular and mesmerizing, the lack of damage to your vehicle when you crash nevertheless 
 leaves the game wanting in the face of competition like Burnout 3. Adding crash-tacular moments 
 to the game would elevate it to a whole new level of excellence.
  
  Another nit to pick is the lack of police presence in the game's fictional city of Bayview. Apparently 
 this is a functioning lawless society where street racers run rampant. Right. A police chase or 
 three would have made this great game even better.
  
  A third strike against NFSU2 developer and publisher Electronic Arts is the game's downright silly 
 use of slang. Nobody, and I mean nobody, talks like the actors and writers who contributed to its 
 shallow story. For example, when some punk calls me a "Frontin' bammer," I'm not going to feel 
 intimidated or impressed by his street-smart sass. I'm going to laugh at him. Did EA invent this 
 lingo, or did they send their lawyers out to interview some kids, who subsequently mocked the corporate 
 squares by making this stuff up?
  
  The in-game advertising is heavy-handed and irksome. I now hate Cingular with a passion, so I guess 
 this stupid marketing scheme back-fired.
  
  Despite these flaws, I can't help but love NFSU2 on PC. The selection of cars is awesome, the variety 
 of mods is cool, the racing is wonderful, and the graphics are beautiful, if over the top (I turned 
 off the blur effect) . As a veteran editor and journalist who spent weekend after weekend at drag 
 strips like St. Thomas, Sanair, Grand Bend and Cayuga, covering import racing for my magazine Sport 
 Compact National (now defunct) , I can vouch for the accurate high-rev engine sounds in the game. 
 There's nothing sweeter than the din of a grossly overpowered four-cylinder engine screaming in 
 full song. Nice!
  
  It's also nice to note the marketing folks at EA neglected to include my old nemesis, Performance 
 Auto & Sound, from the game's magazine cover rewards. Worst magazine ever! That's not just sour 
 grapes. I respect mags like Sport Compact Car and Import Tuner. PASmag has no editorial integrity 
 whatsoever. Hey, why didn't they contact me to get SCN in the game? Of course, I'm not so naive. 
 It all comes down to payola, because you gotta know the magazines featured in NFSU2 didn't get 
 there for free. Typical publishing industry BS. I'm so glad to be out of that rat race, or as Hunter 
 Thompson quipped, that "Rotten, pressurized bees nest."
  
  Okay, enough of my personal rant. If you haven't bought Need for Speed Underground 2 yet, do yourself 
 a favour and get it soon. You won't be sorry! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ahmedali
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 8, 2005 1:10 pm PT
Review:  NFSU2 is a very good game. It is full of great excitment, it is so good its like you are really 
 there racing somebody. The graphics are great, but EA needs to work a little on the edges. The game 
 play is tremendous instead of just being invited to a race you drive to races! There are many tipes 
 of races such as Sprint, URL, Drag, Drift, StreetX, Circuit, Outrun, and the new cruise mode. The 
 online play is pretty good, but there is one problem there are not much games going on, you have 
 to wait a little bit for a game to come up. I reccomend the Logitech Rumblepad 2 for this game. 
 I have this controller and it works great for this game. The controlls are very easey to get used 
 to. The audio is awesome the engine sounds are very realistic, and when you crash it sounds real. 
 This game does not get boring easy, when you are finished you can replay the career mode which 
 is really fun. And you can go online you can also just race or cruse! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XenoChron
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 3, 2005 8:35 pm PT
Review:  I'll make this short and sweet. If you like racers and don't mind the unrealistic physics, this 
 is a fun game you can pick up and play in short bursts. I have a tendency to lean towards the Gran 
 Turismo style games with more realistic physics but this is just plain and simple fun. 
  
  I was skeptical about this game on the PC as most of my experience with this style of game was 
 on the XBOX and PS2 but I couldn't resist something that would show off my new video card. If you've 
 got the video card horsepower, this game looks wonderful. Make sure you have a decent gamepad to 
 play this as it makes all the difference. I used a Logitech USB style that is like the PS2 joystick.
 
  
  Here's the quick list:
  
  + Great Graphics
  + Gameplay simple to get into
  + Modifications and tuning of cars is fun
  + Variety of gameplay styles is nice - drift/drag/circuit 
 and so on
  
  - Cut Scenes are moronic
  - Hate the music
  - Replay's could be better (nothing compares to Gran Turismo's replays I guess)
  
  Have fun!
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RickyCameleon
Rating: 6.6
Date: Apr 22, 2005 1:00 am PT
Review:  The Need for speed franchise has been around since the mid 90s. These were the times when EA was 
 known as Electronic Arts and it was a much smaller and modest company that strived for gaming quality 
 unlike its supposedly evil, license-milking self today. EA is still a good company and some of 
 their games are exceptionally good but if someone took all their licenses away I'm sure we'd see 
 much improvement.
  NFS was one of their more established series, the concept was quite simple: race around a circuit 
 in a bunch of expensive, exotic cars (mainly from Europe) and see who could get to the finish line 
 first. Later in '98 car chases and car downloads were introduced in number 3: hot pursuit. For 
 years NFS stayed on PC with the occasional port or game for Playstation but in '02 they decided 
 to send their newest game, NFS: Hot pursuit 2 onto the multi-console network. 
  Sadly it wasn't as successful as one would have hoped it to be this could of perhaps been the end. 
 But EA had an idea. It was rumoured that a game was in development for one of the Fast and the 
 Furious movies and EA took hold of it. Whether that be true, I'll leave it to you but it was certain 
 NFS had may have just redeemed itself. 
  I first saw the title NFS "UNDEGROUND" in '03 while browsing the screen index of a game at Gamespot. 
 Personally I though this game was going to be absolutely crap like the ad.
  Well, I have to admit I was wrong the ad was still crap but the game was very true to the franchise 
 besides the fact that it was illegal street racing and the cars were pretty cheap pieces of Japanese 
 crap, personally speaking.
  This game retained the NFS style, a very complicated and hard to describe style that was mainly 
 present in number 3.
  Anyway, to cut a long story, short this game was a success and now comes the successor, which supposedly 
 took half a year to make.
  
  NFSU2 is part of the ever-growing concept of illegal street racing made famous by the fast and 
 the furious. It works around the ideas of buying a fast, street legal car, jazzing it up with dangerous 
 additions, going out into the innocent streets, competing in a bunch of suicidal races and final 
 selling your soul to brand names and magazine covers. 
  As some of you may realize this is actually a sheer expression of flat-out stupidity but people 
 love it and that's no surprise why EA came up with this sequel.
  
  Continuing from the first game, you've (whoever you may be) become the fastest kid in town and 
 you want to make it big time somewhere else. so you hitch a ride on the next plane and go to that 
 somewhere else with nothing in your pockets. Luckily your annoying, advice-giving friend Samantha 
 from the first game has connection there and you find yourself there with a hired car and a couple 
 of thousand wired over to you.
  The game then starts and you find yourself in a nice stylish, done-up car in an airport car park 
 but all is not well as you soon discover on your Cingular mobile (cell) phone that this beauty 
 belongs to another annoying, advice giver. Oh bother!
  
  U2 now introduces the concept of free roaming so now your first task is to drive to a garage which 
 is supposedly your home there you return the good car and buy yourself something new and so starts 
 the game.
  
  Along the way as you roam the streets you'll notice 3 new things. 1. This is a completely new and 
 detailed city, 2. As well as more, smarter traffic there is the occasional "UNDERGROUND" car racing 
 along, and 3. There are a hell of a lot more advertisement and product placements than the first 
 game. On the first game you'd occasionally see the McDonalds or J-lo or sparkplug billboard and 
 that was acceptable but now there's Burger King restaurants with playgrounds and ING Direct billboards 
 with big bold letters saying "Save your money" and every freaking time you open your inbox (yep, 
 this game has mail) you'll see Cingular or the logo sitting in the top left corner and it does 
 get worse as I will tell you later.
  
  EA have kind have brought this upon them, it is realistic to have tyre brands and brake brands 
 and the NOS logo, as you'll be doing a lot of shopping through out the game to improve the style 
 of your car or cars. But with this hugh use of product placements like "Hey dawg, that was a pretty 
 cool outrun. Meet me near the Burger King on the street with the ING billboard, I'll give you some 
 nice NOS products..." It's no wonder why EA are considered evil money hungry feelas and why U2 
 won Gamespot's dubious honours for worst product placement.
  
  Another interesting addition is outrun, this gives you the ability to test yourself against those 
 underground racers in the streets in a race to see who can outrun the other first. Just drive next 
 to them and hit accept. Other than being a way to get quick money these races can give you access 
 to new stuff like the location of auto shops which are now scattered throughout the city. Now there's 
 no waiting to get to a certain level before you can buy parts instead shops are hidden and you 
 have to wait till they get new stock in adding to the realism of the game. Much more mods can be 
 added to your car now, hydraulics, speakers and flat screens in the trunk, ability to paint the 
 engine and much more. So of these feature do seem a bit pointless and the LCDs and speakers don't 
 look as good as you may expect but if style is what you want then these you'll have to get.
  
  Beside the graphics (which we'll get to) the key part of the game is racing and tuning up you 
 "ride". Pretty much all the the race types are back with the inclusion of a few more one being 
 the annoying task of constantly ramming your opponent and seeing who can make it to the finish 
 line first. Since the career mode is free roam now races are scattered around the city 
  and you'll drive there yourself. The best thing about races is the ability to restart so if you 
 don't make that perfect start you can just do it again.
  Tuning your car is not much of a walk in the park, in your garage you can select the dyno/ test 
 track and test out the top speed and power of your car on a dyno as well as how it handle on the 
 racing style test track. Then you can tune your car to the way you prefer (which gets tricky at 
 times) so if you like fast cars that accelerates like a tank then your dreams have come true... stupid 
 idiot!
  
  Now to the guide for selling your soul: for dummies. Though out the game you are offers various 
 sponsorships these usually include and free car sometimes a hummer or jeep and a heap of money 
 but require the old get your picture taken with our label or win races or your out. 
  Surprisingly the photo part is pretty amusing you can drive any on the unlocked city (you heard 
 me, dumb level lockouts) and line up your car moving or not, choose the angle open your trunk or 
 flip up doors and snap you're on the cover of a magazine. Sponsorships also aid in the game's final 
 completion.
  
  U2's graphics are gorgeous but they're wash out with murky green and lack in the NFS style from 
 U1. Cars are well detailed, the world is hugh and lively, streets are unique not tiled, you can 
 see far, far away, there's reflections (mainly on the road) , rain, bump mapping, smoke effects 
 and a whole list of effects and details that ad to the final show, and all of this can be taken 
 advantage of if you have a good PC. There are flaws though the biggest and far most humorous being 
 how rushed this game was. There is not a block where something is out of place, the main culprits 
 are usually plants, trees or light posts that just float above where they're supposed to be and 
 don't get me started about the railings on Beacon Hill. Also a big lack of freedom is present, 
 everywhere there are stairs that are just flat, textured slopes and argh!! you smash right into 
 then. After playing for a while you'll probably develop the impression this games more of a "look, 
 but don't touch!" display that is frustrating to the more adventurous gamer. 
  
  The most disgusting part is the demo videos before you first try an event. There are two types 
 or videos in the game, Comic book style story and demo before first-played level the first look 
 pretty good but the second and horrible, stretched, blurry crap. A real pull down.
  
  Sound wise, most would say the music sucks in comparison to the first (you're probably best turning 
 the volume down in options) the song by Snoop Dogg featuring "Rider's on the storm" is somewhat 
 pointless as it sounds more a bikers song.
  The game has a lot of voice but sadly there's too much "dude!", "dawg", "bro" and a whole other 
 load of stuff that makes feel a little embarrassed playing the game if only you could run over 
 these guys but the car goes straight through them! Thankfully sound effect is a high point, there 
 are a lot but there could have been more to enhance the atmosphere. The cars sound good with main 
 focus on them, nice revs and vroom that sound real and helpful when you don't want to switch your 
 focus to see when you have to change gear.
  
  NFSU2 is a good game but not great, you feel a small lose from the first one, a process of driving 
 to your race seems to become an annoying chore. 
  If you're in to street racing or still have a need for speed after you've beat the first, then 
 NFSU2 is the game for you. If you're just a gamer who liked the first then this is probably worth 
 a borrow to see how it cuts your test.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: omi1
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 14, 2005 1:37 am PT
Review:  Don't know about you but this game rocks. Comparing the first game to Midnight Club of course is 
 gonna happen, EA & Rockstar wants the throan. Even though you got MC3: Dub Edition coming out soon 
 sorry I doubt very seriously it's going to hold a candle to NFSU2. For anyone who's an Initial 
 D fan, this game caters to your downhill drift needs. If you don't mind having a solid white Toyota 
 Celica, it can easily pass for Tak's 86. You can re-make all of you Initial D car's minus the decals 
 needed to make it official. But hey this is the only sacrifise we have to deal. The game ROCKS!!!!!
 
  
  Pros: You'll definately feel the need to wanna trick out your real life car
  
  Cons: Some cars over exergerated on the control & performance of the vehicle; for example being 
 the 2005 Ford Mustang tends to spin out....... ALOT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pharomarc
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 30, 2005 4:25 am PT
Review:  NFS underground is a really fun game. The open world design, and the tones of modification and 
 hidden places keeps you coming back for more adding a lot of value to the game. I believe it has 
 improved a lot over the previous installment. One of the major improvements over the previous game 
 is the huuuuge world, complete with a complex freeway system; which looks a lot like L. As system 
 with out the going-nowhere traffic. Its definitely a must have game for any fan of the genera. 
 If you have not played either of these installments, you should definitely get the second one. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adgal98
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 2, 2005 10:13 pm PT
Review:  Again, I don't understand why GameSpot editor are so drastic in the qualifications. They say that 
 this game is worst than previous one, but c'mon! It is WAY better in all the aspects.
  
  The cars, models, textures and world in general look so much better in this game. Not only to the 
 PC version, but also for Xbox and PS2.
  
  The soundtrack has the same underground style and the sound in general haven't a great change, 
 that's true...
  
  The new map feature with the explore mode is really cool. You can be freely all over the map, looking 
 for new matches, hidden stores and street challenges, and you have always the option of play like 
 in the first one: just go to the garage and then choose directly the race or competition you want 
 to play. 
  
  In the aspect of tunning, there are a lot of new freatures you can add to you car, like the stuff 
 in the trunk and the displays for the speedometer, tacometer and so on.
  
  Finally, something that I have to admit is really dumb, is the apparison of the E! girl: Brooke 
 Burke. I mean, what's the point? What his rol on the game? I'm sure that everyone of us can see 
 and understand the reason for the different parts in the tunning shops and we can reach and found 
 the races we have to go... 
  
  Anyway, I think this is a pretty good game and any qualification below 8 it's really unfair. It 
 seens that GS doesn't like (or never reach his expectations) racing games. The same has ocurred 
 with the last GT4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rasika
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 22, 2005 9:59 am PT
Review:  EA Games hs done a very good job in making NFSU2. It's similiar to NFSU but it's better than NFSU 
 in a whole lot of ways like car custimization, tunning, roaming around the city and etc. People 
 have lot of comments about this game. This is just few of them.
  
  "Improves upon the illegal street racing laurels in the first game and attempts to incorporate 
 the hottest trend, open-end game play, to generally good results."
  -- Erich Becker, ESCMAG
  
  "The game rolls super-slick visuals, tricked-out cars, and a free-roaming 
 California vibe into a solid street racing experience."
  -- Chris Hudak, GAMES DOMAIN
  
  "In a gaming season plagued by same-old-same-old sequels, Need for Speed Underground 2 is a rare 
 title that changes up the formula and still manages to stay fun."
  -- Rachel Peterson, MYGAMER
  
  "A visual treat for racing fans, the incredible depth that the 
 title offers through its different game types and extensive modification options should have gamers 
 playing this for a long time, especially when you take the online options into account."
  -- Jon Wilcox, TOTALVIDEOGAMES. COM
  
  These are just few of them but from these what we can 
 realize is that people very much like this game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pundan
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 12, 2005 2:57 pm PT
Review:  I first started playing Need For Speed when the first game came out. My friend had a PC that reached 
 all the system-requirements, and somehow he had gotten ahold of this awesome racing game called 
 Need For Speed. We sat an played endlessly for hours. It was all about who could beat the best 
 time record for each course. Some years later another friend of mine got ahold of Need For Speed 
 2, but it wasn't all about who could get the best lap-time then. It was about who could flip the 
 most cars over so they landed on the roof and stayed there. We weren't pleased till' all cars were 
 on their roof.
  
  Then I started playing Need For Speed on the Playstation, but that's another story. Eventually 
 came Need For Speed Underground which had alot of influences from the movie "The Fast and the Furious", 
 there were practically everything you wanted and everything you would ever need.
  
  Last year came the sequel to Need For Speed Underground. It promised us alot of new cars, things 
 we could put on our cars etc. So far the promise is kept, but looking back at it, it wasn't anything 
 of that, that I really wanted. First of all, Need For Speed Underground 2 has gotten alot of criticism 
 for their huge amount of commercials in this game. Basically everywhere you go you are able to 
 see lot's of racing-ads. I can deal with that after all this is a racing game and what modern racing 
 game doesn't have ads for Pirelli, Shell or Texaco etc. But what I wonder is why there's food-ads? 
 Like Burger King. And on the screen there's a cell-phone manufacturer logo that is displayed all 
 the time while you're playing the game. Ok I must say that I don't care to much about this stuff, 
 I can deal with it. But it's quite annoying when you start thinking about it? What's next in game-development 
 - making small 2 minute ads that you have to see before you start playing the next level? I sure 
 do hope that video-games doesn't end up like TV.
  
  The graphics are good, in fact they're are great. And the cars look brand new all the time, even 
 though you have crashed them into walls a hundred times. The city is quite detailed, not as detailed 
 as I hoped though but it's ok, it's a racing game. The nitro-effect though is really cool, it gives 
 you a great sense of speed, so this is something that they have really succeeded with.
  
  The worst part of the game is the sound. I hated it almost immediately! It starts of with some 
 hip-hop version of The Doors' masterpiece "Riders of the Storm", and the music doesn't get any 
 better than that. There's some nu-metal like music that is the hardest music in the game, even 
 though it isn't good at all. Just think of EA-music and you get a pretty clear picture of how it 
 sounds. (You know EA games always have some college-teen-popular music in each and every game) . 
 The worst part when it comes to the sound is the dialogue. I like the actor's they're all good 
 but what's disturbing to me is the embarrassing way they talk. It sounds like they're raised up 
 in the worst parts of Brooklyn. The only thing that is good with the sound in this game is the 
 way the cars sounds. And I do have to mention that sometimes the cars sounds like Japanese-made 
 motorbikes, but still it gives you a feeling of street-racing, and that's good.
  
  Need For Speed Underground 2 features a great time of game-play. There's many things to do and 
 many paths to take. You can choose what sponsor-deals you want to, and you can choose yourself 
 what you want to drive etc. NFS: Underground 2 is different in this way than from it's prequel. 
 You no longer have to do races you don't want to do, instead you can cruise around the city yourself 
 and look for hidden races or do what races you want to do. And that is good. Also embedded into 
 the gameplay is the HUGE ammount of things you can put on your car or inside your car. There's 
 lots of things that can make your car scream "Bling bling!". And the more you play the game, the 
 more things unlocks for you. The whole street-race feeling in Need For Speed Underground is good, 
 and there's many different race-modes to do. 
  
  All in all I would say if you're a fan of the first game pick this game up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rubenbos007
Rating: 5.8
Date: Feb 8, 2005 7:34 pm PT
Review:  When Need for Speed Underground came out I bought it straight away. The game did let you tune your 
 whole car and then drive with it like a maniac! The game was easy but I did forgive EA that. Cause 
 the possibility of tuning your car wasn`t really use properly before.
  
  The game was a success so they made Underground 2. Just again I bought it. But when I installed 
 it and first played it I saw that stupid cartoon storyline which was terrible! But then there was 
 the music which is the best part of the game. I started with the Mazda Miata (man I love that car) . 
 After that I bought the Nissan 350Z. But I didn`t feel any different in the driving style of this 
 car. I won all races at the highest difficulty, it was still to easy for me. I thought EA did something 
 about that but no they didn`t. And all those stupid glitches when I hit the wall at the race at 
 the airport I just raced through it!!!
  
  So after all I spend less then 10 hours completing the game. The graphics wheren`t that good and 
 the gameplay had only some differences when you switched to the big cars like the Hummer V2. But 
 if you liked Underground 1 and you don`t really care about the difficulty Underground 2 will still 
 be a good game. The theme song Snoop Dogg & The Doors - Riders on the Storm is very very good! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shortman190
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 3, 2005 2:14 am PT
Review:  Need For Speed Underground 2.
  
  Bright lights, lots of cars and casinos. Vaguely reminds you of Los Vegas dont it? Yes this game 
 certainly isnt for the epileptic thats for sure. Boasting a stunning 7 billion car customisation 
 options, EAs latest racing game is all about customisation. From the obvious body customisation 
 to little things, like split hoods or side mirrors or even engine neon. 
  
  EA has introduced a free roaming city into the picture, and while it may have seemed a good idea 
 at the time, isnt done terribly well in the long run. Sure, while your still exploring the city, 
 it is a great idea, but once youve found all the shops and secret races, it seems quite tedious 
 travelling all the way to the next race. Thankfully, they have still kept some of the linear approach 
 to things in the picture, meaning that you dont have to travel to the races. 
  
  Outside the races (and this rarely happens as there are a lot of races to be raced) , there are 
 quite a few things to do. Like I said earlier, these things run out quite fast. There are races 
 to find, and shops to locate. Yes, unlike the previous instalment, you have to go to different 
 specialty shops to buy the parts you want. And there are lots and lots of parts to unlock (which 
 is done in a different manner as well. Ill come back to this later) . Body Shops for the body kits 
 etc, Paint Shops for paint, vinyls and decals and Car Specialty Shops for the little random things 
 such as Nitrous Purge, Hydraulics, custom gauges and much, much more. 
  
  Unlocking parts is done in a different manner this time. As opposed to the parts being unlocked 
 as a reward for different races, this time, parts are unlocked by the amount of reputation points 
 you get. Which are also done in a different way. Points for power sliding, drafting etc, which 
 would usually be reputation points in NFSU, instead help fill up something called a NOS Breaker. 
 So how is reputation made you might be asking? Well you get reputation by how much you beat the 
 other racers. And these go towards unlocking items. 
  
  At a first glance, the graphics may seem to not be very different from the previous game. But once 
 things start moving, the neon starts pulsing and the NOS starts purging, you begin to realise the 
 subtle graphics improvements. After all, NFSU had great graphics, and how can you improve the graphics 
 on NFSU? Well one things for sure, EA have improved the graphics. Small things you notice like 
 the neon bars being visible when you accidentally flip you car have been added. And as the game 
 is set in a city, you can see from afar the nuclear reactors of Coal Harbour west on Beacon Hill. 
 And yes there are separate suburbs, with each one being unlocked at each stage of the game. There 
 are also weather effects and they are quite stunning. The way the individual droplets of rain that 
 is light up by the cars headlights is quite realistic.
  
  Sound wise (or more probably, noise wise) , this game sounds quite good. With 5.1 (or 6.1 or even 
 7.1 if you are fancy) , the sound of you car revving is quite realistic. You can almost feel the 
 engine its that well done. Yes, the music doesnt help here thats for sure. Most of the music 
 is just sound. But then again, music in racing game has never really been done that well. 
  
  But all in all, this game is a great game. If you are someone who likes the pulse pounding 
 street life of America but cant afford a good car, but you dont like the prospect of being behind 
 bars in jail, then this game is defiantly for you. And as Brooke Burke said, if you ever feel the 
 need for speed, just play underground 2. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dyaballikl
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 30, 2005 7:02 pm PT
Review:  Hehe, I knew that title would draw someone! But seriously, NFSU 2 is a very fun and in depth game 
 into the world of street racing. That is, if you consider this travesty of a fantasy they created 
 street racing. Basically, this game is so far from realistic, it's not even funny, but it does 
 make the game fun, so screw it.
  
  NFSU 1 was really cool, as it was the first game to not only delve you into the street racing scene, 
 but really let you customize all kinds of things on your car, it was crazy. Now, NFSU 2 is here, 
 and it's more of the same, but with plenty of additions. The driving physics haven't really changed 
 here, except for now, there's rain, although it really doesn't seem to do anything to your traction, 
 not much anyway. But I guess they added the rain to explain for the constantly wet looking streets, 
 unfortunately, it rains approximately once every 5 minutes in Bayview.
  
  The big new addition is the free roaming mode, which they totally jacked from competitor SRS (Street 
 Racing Syndicate) . Honestly though, free roaming was the only thing SRS had over NFSU, and now 
 NFSU 2 has taken that away. Unfortunately, SRS allowed you the ability to automatically jump to 
 anywhere in the city instead of driving there, NFSU 2 didn't get that memo (must be lost with the 
 TPS reports!) . In fact, the new free roaming mode is quite a hastle. EA saw GTA San Andreas make 
 a huge new map and though it was a good idea. Well, it wasn't a good idea for racing games. It 
 takes far too much time to get from place to place (often longer than the race itself) , and the 
 long loading times really kill the mood. Not too mention the 10 or so mediocre songs that repeat 
 over and over again, luckily you can turn them off, but then you have no music to race to!
  
  Anyway, another big addition is the new stuff you can put on your car. A lot more of everything 
 from the original, including body kits, lights, vinyls, etc. But now you can add hydraulics (which 
 have crappy controls and are worth nothing more the visually upgrade to your car) and spinners, 
 which are actually cool. Did I mention you can get SUVs in 2? No? Well, you can, an H2, Escalade, 
 and Navigator, which all look great on the 26" spinners you can put on them. Unfortunately, they 
 handle like a brick (although I've gotten my h2 to do an 11 sec 1/4 mile!) .
  
  Same race modes are here, but now you get a URL (Underground racing league) mode, which hosts most 
 of the game's cinematic sequences, and the Street X mode, which is a technical race on tight drift 
 tracks. Unfortunately, all of the voice acting is either weak (Brooke Burke) to absolutely horrible 
 (the main bad guy) . And the writing is through the floor bad. They really had monkeys do the dialogue 
 for this one. They use slang that would make anyone embarassed. And they use it so poorly, too. 
 Also, the story is very weak, and goes away for quite a while without seeing it again, so you can 
 pretty much just enjoy the game without the cutscenes.
  
  There are now visual ratings for your car, from 0 stars to 10 stars, in incriments of 1/100th of 
 a star. Basically, you just need stars to get paid more by photographers and to be able to access 
 certain photographers. You get more stars by adding things to your car to make it look prettier 
 (this is the only place you'll get use for the hydraulics) .
  
  Now, for the online feature. Well..... I admit, I didn't do my homework here. I'm afraid you'll 
 have to look at someone else's review for it. All I know is that there aren't any content DL's, 
 I checked.
  
  Finally, there's the great new Race Breaker feature! Sound cool, huh? Well, its not really. It's 
 just a feature the game borrowed from its sister racer, Burnout 3: Takedown where you do things 
 like have close calls with other traffic and do drifts to gain more nitrous (or "boost" in Burnout 
 3's case) .
  
  But enough about the new, now for what makes NFSU 2 an NFSU:
  
  The physics of the driving are okay, fun even, but nothing as realistic as Gran Turismo 3, but 
 that's okay. Visually, NFSU 2 is stunning, with highly detailed environments that don't carry the 
 whole Flintstones background feel. The cars look kinda cool, although they're a much more fantasy 
 look than maybe they should be (they look like they've just been waxed 500 times) . Unfortunately, 
 still no car damage (unlike SRS) because EA couldn't get the car licensers to agree to it. The 
 cutscenes are weak, as they're all still shots, many in a comic book page (lame idea, EA) . But 
 the gameplay is fun, my favorite is the drag racing, which well simulates real street drag racing, 
 except for all of the cars on the street. Drift is my second favorite, especially with a rear wheel 
 drive car (for some reason, front wheel drive cars can to incredible donuts in this game!) . And 
 circuit and sprint races are pretty much there to fill in the game.
  
  And there you have it. I might have sounded pretty nasty on the game, but look at all my other 
 reviews, I'm always critical (except on Goldeneye 007, of course) . I do really like this game, 
 enough that I bought it, even on my very tight budget right now. This game isn't entirely one that 
 you'll sit down and play throughout the night on, more of a few hours here and there (it gets a 
 little stale if you play too much in one sitting) . So rent it, buy if you have some cash, you'll 
 get a good 20 some odd hours out of its play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterMarcus
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jan 18, 2005 5:41 pm PT
Review:  It's difficult to make a memorable PC driving game, arcade style that is, like the NFSU franchise. 
 The platform is ideal for ultra-realistic F1 sim-like; now the basic controls keyboard-mouse can't 
 be responsive enough to sustain the fast paced street action delivered by NFSU 2. Evidently, a 
 driver combining a good mix of easy-to-get-into action and customization is really meant to be 
 played on consoles. A good game MUST be played with the standard controls, and reviewed accordingly. 
 No surprise then if NFSU 2 can't be reasonably handled with them. You really need enhanced driving 
 controllers.
  
  On the spiffy side, the user interface shows surprisingly polished options to navigate with, particularly 
 during the customization part of the game - which is quite intuitive. Controls are tightly layered 
 and take advantage of the pleasant contsruct. However, the races themselves offer little innovations 
 for the genre, not to say the same boring urban portrayal at night is not helping to build a lasting 
 value. The fun factor begins to level up once the nitrous-oxide upgrade is available : too bad 
 the real speed happens so late after having experienced some questionable transitions between the 
 tracks, rendering the whole experience uneven.
  
  Naturally, the musical score saves the day for generating a good atmosphere ( unfortunately not 
 the same positive feeling can be sensed while hearing the lame voiceovers ) . The '' Underground 
 Racing League '' proposes a valuable change of pace as a side game, although it doesn't really 
 alter the main event in a diverse way, like it should have been if optimized more creatively. The 
 racer just remains fun to play casually and gets unavoidably tedious over long sessions. Wait a 
 minute = cars remain in pristine condition after crashes??? Ridiculously light sparkles in some 
 contact points & along the ramps are the only noticeable effects we can see clearly, for an otherwise 
 underwhelming adrenaline-sensation.
  
  The NFSU series could have been a great ''underground'' alternative to the Gran Turismo legacy. 
 This recent sequel has too much untapped potential to be considered as an accomplishment. In a 
 way, it partly succeeds at enticing a fun and colorful gameplay, and delivering a good sense of 
 high speed yet at the expense of environmental connectivity. Rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mystikvm
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 3, 2005 11:12 am PT
Review:  Need For Speed Underground reinvented the Need For Speed franchise, and that is good, since I've 
 never really liked the other games that carry the NFS brand. But the ability to pimp your car, 
 race arcade style with some phat (just to stay in the mood) beats made me love NFSU1. EA did well 
 top hop on the street racing wagon, and I was curious to see what the second installment of this 
 market-leading racer would bring.
  
  To cut it short, I was slightly disappointed, but the more I played the game, the more I came to 
 enjoy it, and in the end I still was satisfied. Let me touch on a number of subjects that were 
 improvements in this game, be it for better or for worse.
  
  Yes, every change is in fact an improvement, only some of the improvements don't fit this game 
 well, like the free-roaming city. It's nice to drive around a bit, but it feels kind of odd to 
 have to drive sround for sometimes over 10 minutes to engage in a 3 minute arcade race, it just 
 takes away a bit of the speed that was in the first game. I finished that one in a few hours, but 
 it was a ride full of adrenaline, NFSU2 has a slower pace, and you'll most likely find yourself 
 driving around rather uninterested looking for a few races to win. While the races are still arcade, 
 the fact that you have to truck around for so long is redious, to say the least.
  
  Good thing they were able to fill the map with exciting events and new race modes like Outrun, 
 which makes driving around on the map more bearable (you have to gain a 300 metre gap between you 
 and your opponent, really arcade) and Street X, which is more like a circuit race on a Drift course, 
 narrow, cramped and thrilling. Drift did lose some of its appeal, it is harder to rack up some 
 high scores now, and while that wouldn't be much of a problem in the first installment, now you 
 have to compete with three opponents at the same time, so you're all on the circuit, and the moment 
 the first one has completed his round you have 30 seconds to join him on the other end of the line, 
 or you're out. So no more unlimited time for drifting. Too bad, isn't it?
  
  One other thing that makes this game somewhat arcade, but also a bit unexciting is its difficulty. 
 Like most arcade racers I encountered this one is easy. But only sometimes it is extremely easy, 
 since cutting corners doesn't make you lose much speed, and you'll be able to create massive gaps 
 between you and the rest. You'll encounter a few hard events (Drag is really hard now) but most 
 of the time you'll just blaze through them with two fingers in your nose.
  
  Then the most important thing, the cars. You can own a number of cars which you can fully modify, 
 modding the car has turned into micro-management now, everything can be replaced, from doors to 
 speed counters, and you have a whole lot to choose from too. A bunch of new car models have been 
 thrown in the mix and this game will get you to play it a few more times to see if you can mod 
 a Hummer as well as you modded your Audi TT (depending on the version you're playing) . Thumbs up 
 EA, real nice touch.
  
  Technically the game has improved much. I don't have a cutting edge graphics card, so I couldn't 
 play it on the highest settings, but when I was able to do that when playing NFSU1, this game looked 
 exactly the same while this time the detail bar was only half full (or half-empty, if you're the 
 pessimist) , so it can only look awesome when you're able to fill the bar up fully.
  
  And the music. Man, what a delightful sound. EA Trax is the best feature EA has nowadays (and they 
 have a lot of disgusting features, let me tell you that) and for this soundtrack they've really 
 outdone themselves. Great music the pumps you up even more that the soundtrack of the first game. 
 Superb.
  
  All in all this game is a polished version of NFSU1, with a number of improvements, only some of 
 them don't come out quite as well as they should have, like the free-roaming streets, which is 
 the most important thing in the game. Also some of the cutscnenes will bug the hell out of you, 
 the language used is way over-the-top and the whole thing seems like a big poser trip. But don't 
 you worry, the game on itself holds up pretty well, while in gamneplay terms not as thrilling and 
 fun as the first game, it still is a great experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scatsofrango
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 22, 2004 4:06 pm PT
Review:  I dont know why GS reviewed this game with such a low score, but nevermind; I think this game 
 is fantastic. Yeah, there are some flaws, but the overall result is fun, just fun. The cars are 
 well detailed, and the tuning acessories are even better that the NFSU 1. The idea of riding in 
 a city, looking for races and challenges with other rides is quite a little bit equal to driver 
 or GTA. The customization of the vehicles couldnt be better and this time you are able to customize 
 sound, hydropneumatic suspension and even gauges. The races are easy, easier than NFSU 1. Its 
 a good arcade game, and I cant wait till the next title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xts3
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 22, 2004 5:39 am PT
Review:  This game is probably one of the best driving arcade game merged with the better aspects of customization 
 and simulation driving games out there besides the Midnight Club series of games, which doesn't 
 get as much attention since the graphics are not so good in the Midnight club series. But the Midnight 
 club series did push the envelope with new gamemodes and new gameplay for a genre thats all about 
 doing the same thing: Driving around and racing. Underground 2 tries to borrow some concepts of 
 other racing games and what it borrows it does well for the most part. The best part is that they 
 brought in car tuning and which will have you tuning your car for each race type for good lenghts 
 of time trying to perfect the control and feel of your car to tune it best for the different types 
 of tracks that are available. 
  
  The city is a great addition, despite what others have said. It's gives you a break from the constant 
 racing to just drive around and take in the scenes, learn to drive your car properly. You can also 
 perform an "outrun" which is trying to pull a certain amount of distance ahead of the opponent 
 cars that are littered throughout the map. Once you tell them you want to challenge them to an 
 outrun by pulling up behind them and hitting the engage key, you drive around the city trying to 
 pull ahead enough distance to win which earns you a bit of cash on teh side from the main races.
 
  
  NFSU2 doesn't totally bow to arcade gameplay mechanics but it does not have damage modelling and 
 hitting walls doesn't reduce your speed as drastically if you bump them at certain angles, you 
 will stop dead if you hit them head on. My only complaint is the AI, and lack of new game modes. 
 They got to start pushing the series in new directions while maintaining what makes the series 
 good. Midnight Club 2 is an example of how racing games can evolve beyond circular tracks and number 
 of laps. Check it out as well if you find you like NFSU 2.
  
  CONS:
  
  -Some of the graphics and textures are very pixelated and blocky on the PC since this game is ported 
 from the console versions of the game. 
  
  -The car AI is adjustable, but even on medium setting not all too challenging, you can change the 
 difficulty in the in game meu options though.
  
  -The color pallete is OK in size but not great, you can't make your own colors yet, but the colors 
 that are there are fairly well designed, but it'd be great if you could adjust and mix your own 
 colors. Especially since this is the PC version, we should have access to all 16.7 million colors 
 available in 24/32Bit color
  
  -I only wish there were more parts, like hoods, bumpers, vinyls, stickers, and other stuff you 
 can put on your car, you can spend an hour just trying to find the right combination of parts, 
 vynals, logos and stickers and colors for your car, the decals and vinyls.
  
  -Very few entirely NEW game modes, especially when you compare it to a game like Midnight Club 
 2.
  
  -The soundtrack is a pretty mixed bag and is inconsistent in the genres they pull the music from, 
 you'll end up shutting off a few songs permanently because they are that annoying. I really dislike 
 the fact they are trying to take music from musicious instead of designing the music around and 
 FOR the game, instead of trying to help advertise bad muscisians and artists music.
  
  -No damage modelling
  
  -Some of the racing events gets repetitive after a while, you'll likely 
 stick to the ones your good at to advance the game.
  
  -No profiles for making templates for all cars.
  
  -Not enough game types, no real advances 
 in the genre compared to Midnight club 2.
  
  
  Pro's:
  
  -Cars look fantastic on Modern 3D accelerators - Geforce FX and 9800 Pro's and up.
  
  -Car 
 physics is Arcadey but only in that it's easy to get back into the race after hitting or scrapping 
 walls.
  
  -Big city to drive around, outrun is fun driving around that huge city.
  
  -Racing events are fun, and so is tuning your car for each type of events tracks.
  
  -The number 
 of graphics, colors, and modifications you can make to the cars are bigger then last years game. 
 (If only they had more!!)
  
  -You can tune your car's driving characteristics in real time from the menu on the Dyno track, 
 so you can REALLY tell the difference RIGHT AWAY, without losing how the car felt with the prior 
 settings. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KYsSKYG
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 7, 2004 2:14 pm PT
Review:  It is really a good game, great physics, detailed city, great engine sounds.
  But it has the same serious problem as in UG1, the aero dynamics or body parts are totally non 
 usable, they are extremely ugly! 
  The body parts designers are definitely not prepared for this important role in street racing game, 
 as cool aero dynamics are the symbol of street racing cars, they made body parts like crap, that 
 dont include feature of the stock cars or of that series (basic in car design) or doesnt even 
 look cool, some are even ridiculous, like the rectangular tail light for Skyline, dont they know 
 that four circular tail light is the tradition of Skyline series? These made people not willing 
 to put on those body parts. For me, I always try to make my cars in UG look stock, simply the stock 
 car looks better than those modified.
  As the modeler need to spend time on fitting each single piece of body parts on to each cars, I 
 do think of why dont they make different body parts for each cars that really fit that car, at 
 least to have the same style of the car or maybe make real body parts we can buy today.
  Also, when I was playing online in UG1, I saw lots of ugly objects ( I dont really consider they 
 are cars) people drive, and I wonder why Americans got this good sense of art, and think their 
 objects are cool. 
  In UG2, I really hope that people know what they are doing, and looking forward to see the next 
 NFS to have great improvements, both the game and the players.
  Anyway, UG2 is a fun and great game, I enjoyed it and hope you will too~ ^^ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rawoo
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 7, 2004 7:20 am PT
Review:  Need for speed underground2 is innovative game with a very nicely designed interface, however it 
 does suffer from some repetitive gameplay.
  
  The game is very innovative in my opinion. The idea of giving the player an entire city to explore 
 is just brilliant, this suddenly changes a boring and linear game to an interesting and open-ended 
 game. You feel much more involved, and you really feel that you are just an underground racer placed 
 in a huge world with all the events happening around you and you can proceed through the game however 
 you like. The problem with the gameplay is that it's a bit too repetitive in my opinion, if EA 
 had made the game shorter then this wouldnt be a problem.
  
  The graphics of NFSU2 is pretty good, it looks more polished than the first NFSU game, yet surprisingly 
 enough it still runs pretty smooth in most cases, I did experience some performance problem when 
 racing with five other cars in a large URL track or a large drift track, but the performance generally 
 is pretty good. 
  My system spec:
  P4 2.4
  1GB of DDR RAM
  ATI Radeon9800 PRO
  One more thing I love driving my car into the mountain and view the city from there, if u know 
 a good spot the view can be spectacular!!
  
  The sound of NFSU2 is also fairly good, I have a good speaker system, so when accelerate the car 
 from rest I could feel the table shaking. The music in NFSU2 isnt as good as the music in NFSU, 
 but it's really all about taste. 
  
  The value of NFSU2 is pretty good, you have a pretty lengthy career mode, plus a quick race mode 
 and a multiplayer mode which has a far better netcode than the previous version. All adds up to 
 be a pretty good package. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Saurabh123
Rating: 7.6
Date: Dec 3, 2004 7:06 am PT
Review:  NFSU was a great game, naturally expectations soared when NFSU2 was around the corner & that is 
 where things went wrong. Though a good game on its own, it fails to match up to its fan's expectations. 
 
  
  To start with, the graphics do not look like they have been spent some extra time on. The original 
 NFSU made use of gr8 lights n trails n motion blurs to create a new kind of racing environment. 
 But NFSU2 just carries it forward as it is, without significant improvement. Though some sceneries 
 are really beautiful, not many will feel it looks different from its predecessor. Even the rain 
 effects have been downplayed.
  
  NFSU2 toes the GTA line of having a city to explore & to goto locations to begin missions / race. 
 Though the city is really huge & beautiful, it doesn't feel like a city at all. To start with, 
 the roads are blatantly linear, with hardly any shortcuts between adjacent tracks. U can hardly 
 enter any building's compound nor is there much to smash around. It feels like you are driving 
 on a giant race track than a city. The only credit the city setup gets is that its been created 
 beautifully. You can stand on high ground & view the landscape u just drove through. Though much 
 of that landscape is textures only, it doesn't look that way. There is also an expressway & that 
 too quite long for you to press your vehicles to the limit. The criss-cross sections & flyovers 
 look really good, though sometimes you may not realize which exit you should take for going in 
 a particular direction. You have to go to the races to begin racing, which can be quite frustrating 
 as the city is really huge & going from one end to another tends to become tedious after sometime. 
 Without people & animated objects, the city looks at some places. A whole railway yard & port with 
 nothing moving is too much for gregarious ppl.
  
  Your arsenal of cars gets a welcome addition in terms of SUVs. After complete upgrades, they are 
 virtually racing tanks. You can play football with the traffic & other racers with them. Some new 
 cars have also been added, but its really the SUVs that garner interest. Nothing like driving a 
 Humvy at 280 km/h and c cars fly around at the smallest nudge. Unfortunately, u'll have to really 
 spend on the SUVs to make them that good. The stock SUVs are very bad for driving and it'll be 
 sometime when u can make them worthy of racing. Definitely there is no limit to customisation, 
 infact u can spend days just cutomising ur vehicle. 
  
  Some new kind of races have also been introduced. Out of them, Outrun is something u can do while 
 casual cruising. Depending on the type of vehicle (SUV or cars) , u will find opponents cruising 
 along on the map. when u near them, they'll ask for a race (while driving) . If u accept there invitation, 
 u have to outrun them by 300 m to win the race. Its really fun and can be started anytime & anywhere. 
 The amount of money u win stays fixed & gets incremented as u progress along the game. Once in 
 a while winning some outruns gives u n opputunity for bonus upgrades also. Unfortunataly, these 
 races dissappear after a certain no (why?) and u r forced to get on with your career. Street X 
 is more of a Circuit racing on a Drag course. URL involves 1/2 races on a racing track or airport 
 and are accompanied by a heavy purse. 
  
  The city areas remain unlocked until you complete some amount of the game. As u unlock city areas 
 & win races, u get an oppurtuniy to sign up with a sponsor and obatain new cars. If u want new 
 cars otherwise, u have to go for trade-in. Unfortunately, there is no monetary or return benefit 
 in that, so pick your rides carefully. Even for performance upgrades, painting & vinyling, body 
 upgrades, car shopping & special additions there are separate shops. Most of them are invisble 
 on the map & show up only when u find them. Again u have to be choosy between the shops as some 
 shops offer parts for less. The sad thing is that u have to drive to them to install upgrades. 
 News regarding sponsors, race events & upgrades pops up on ur sms alert. 
  
  The in-game cutscenes, though implemented in a new way, fall flat on their faces. A comic book 
 kind of strip is shown with dialogues. Static images fail to make an impact the way Max Payne does 
 it. Even the opening game movie lacks polish. To add to the list of saving graces is NFSU2's sound 
 n game tracks. The crashes sounds are very well-rendered & the music tracks are spectacular.
  
  Speaking of crashes, NFSU2 does not offer much satisfaction. Cars fly themselves if u hit traffic, 
 while many a times traffic flies like a football when hit by the SUVs. The best portion are the 
 SUV crashes, where the crahes do make some impact & give a sense of pride. Even the traffic, apart 
 from some stray additions looks exactly the same as in NFSU. Some 18 wheelers may have helped. 
 The cinematic crash slo-mode looks good sometimes though. 
  
  Y NFSU2 fails to charm is something everyone will understand only after playing the game. NFSU2 
 has many salient points. To begin with, the sound is perfect. Passing below flyovers and hearing 
 the wooshing sounds does feel like u r driving fast. SUVs sound like they are meant to, especially 
 after upgrades. As everyone knows how the cars are going to handle, its better to carry on playing 
 with SUVs. The best part is that the SUVs are favs like Humme H2 & Cadillac Escalade (remeber matrix 
 reloads?) Racing on drag is particularly interesting as it takes place on beautiful locations. 
 The city as stated is quite beautiful. You can switch cars from your inventory anytime while cruising 
 & race the same race with different vehicles in case u loose. 
  
  "In case u loose" is an abnormal phrase here as the opposition is laughably weak. There is not 
 much fun in driving six laps alone with other cars trailing far enough for u to take a nap. The 
 only competition u may face is on Drag & sometimes in Street X. After outruns get exhausted at 
 every level, cruising becums terribly boring.
  
  Though a strong racing game on its own, it doesn't match up as a sequeal. Do not expect much & 
 u'll surely be rewarded. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arguyle
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 29, 2004 3:29 pm PT
Review:  It's just the right sequel to a really nice racing game.
  EA Canada did a really great job in this racing game... once again. Here's my review:
  
  The 
 gameplay is awesome. You really think you're racing a racing modified car. You feel the road, you 
 feel the speed. When you win, you're proud of yourself. That is NFSU2. In addition to the first 
 title, you got a really big city to explore. But the exploration is not what keeps you into the 
 game. But the fact that you have to visit different shop is kind of immersive. Samantha is back 
 again to help, but this time she is more into it. You really feel like a night driver who lost 
 his car in an incident just after the NFSU 1 events... with no cash left. Briefly, I think that 
 NFSU 2 has a more immersive gameplay than NFSU 1. Great job. One thing tough, if you're just wondering 
 about doing a race after another, maybe you won't like the free roaming city... because most of 
 the time you have to go to a place to get into a race. But! When you're in the free roaming mode, 
 you can race any modified car you encounter... and the race is just to get the lead by a certain 
 distance (like 100 meters) ... the leader goes wherever he want to go, the other has to regain those 
 meters and retake the lead... so this is kind of unique, not repetitive to the other race modes. 
 A little change that I have some difficulty to agree with but I'll have to get used to it is that 
 in the drift race... you're not alone, you're with 3 others competitors at the same time, making 
 your drift harder to get (you have to take the lead or be last to get the road clear) or easier 
 if you're being bump at your advantage.
  
  Another big feature in NFSU2 is the tuning options. There are so much to modify. NFSU1 is nothing 
 compared to NFSU2. This reminds me Gran Turismo when it comes to the tuning/perfomance dyno. This 
 feature allows you to test your transmission and perfomance. You can do some test drive and see 
 a statistic chart to help you tuning car.
  
  Graphicaly, i can say it is great, but can't be compared to Far Cry or Doom 3. They are a bit better 
 than NFSU1... so most of computers can run this game. Anyway, this is a game where a little lag 
 can affect your race, so it has to be perfect.
  
  By the way, I play with a wheel drive to every racing game i'm playing (there's a lot) ... and I 
 can say that NFSU2 is the best in terms of responsivity, car control, effectiveness, feedback... 
 well it's the best racing game for a wheel drive, period.
  
  The soundtrack is just perfectly suited for the ambiance of night racer. Really nice soundtrack. 
 It helps a lot to keep your mind in the role of a night racer.
  
  Usualy i agree with gamespot score... but I think Gamespot has been harsh with this game... 
 
  
  Every racing fan should be playing this game. Trust me, you won't regret it. You enjoyed NFSU1 
 ? Then it is obvious that you'll be a big fan of NFSU2.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheGrimJesus
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 29, 2004 9:29 am PT
Review:  I know it has imports but there a few American Cars in this one including the New 2005 Mustang. 
 
  
  I swore off EA after what they did with MCO, But I must say they finally got it right if only they 
 could release a Old School Muscle Car game with the NFS2 engine. Anyway the controls are tight 
 there are just a ton of things you can do with your car. The Drag Racing leave a bit to be had 
 but the other racing modes are solid.
  
  Overall I say this game is a must buy, For you racing fans. If your not a hardcore Racing Fan then 
 I would say pass on this one because it will eat up your time. Tuning your car just right where 
 you glide threw those hard turns is an art in itself. I have not got to do too much Multiplayer 
 yet its a bit laggy but that to be expected with as much flash that is in this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flameb0y
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 28, 2004 11:10 am PT
Review:  Underground 2 is all that the predecessor was; and then some. Since there are just a few drawbacks 
 to this killer sequel, i'm going to put them up first. Firstly, the very apparent cut down on Motion 
 blur. You'd have to be doing over 180mph to get some sorta hint that you were speeding. Fortunately, 
 the sound more than makes up for the blur in the provision of the sense of speed. While on the 
 sound, the quality of the sound effects is phenomenal, the engines churning out a deep sound, and 
 more importantly distinct sounds for different vehicles, and which change as you upgrade. The soundtrack, 
 however, seems to have failed. An attempt at variety has killed the essence of driving music. I'd 
 rather have NFS 3's electronic techno. Apart from that, a tremendous game! Lets just hope the next 
 one is a sequel to NFS: High Stakes. (with supercars) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZeR04U
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 28, 2004 5:26 am PT
Review:  It has been one year since Need for Speed Underground released. The game sought to develop you 
 as a racer in an underground racing organization. Similar to Fast and the Furious, Need for Speed 
 Underground emphasized illegal street racing. Now, Need for Speed Underground 2 follows up the 
 Underground theme in one of the most highly anticipated driving games in 2004. 
  
  Let's start off with the basics and gameplay elements. Need for Speed Underground 2 boasts an all 
 new system where the user can drive through a limited interactive city. The city itself is quite 
 large and features many different shops and areas to tune your car should you locate them. A small 
 map on your screen, as well as a larger one via sub menu, shows you where all shops are (that you 
 have discovered) and where your next race might be. The city is a great feature, and it adds a 
 lot to Need for Speed Undground 2. It gives you an opportunity to show off your car, earn extra 
 cash, and test out your ride. 
  
  The racing is obviously the main feature of Need for Speed Underground 2. People familiar with 
 Need for Speed Underground will immediately recognize the sprint, circuit, drift, and drag modes. 
 However, two new modes have been added to Need for Speed Underground 2; U. R. L and Street X. You'll 
 also find yourself racing many cars in the world map in most likely one of the biggest additions, 
 outrun mode. During the time you spend racing around the world map, you can challenge other cars 
 noted by an orange triangle. You then have to claim the lead, and distance yourself by nearly 1,000 
 feet. Do enough of those and you'll be treated to some truly awesome unique car parts. 
  
  Despite the pros to the racing, you'll unfortunately find a load of shortcomings. During the game 
 you'll be able to select from 3 difficulties including: easy, medium, and hard. For easy and medium 
 you'll pretty much get in front of your opponent and hope you don't screw up. Even if you do reclaiming 
 the lead is pretty simple. On hard, you'll notice the good ol' catch up mode is back with a vengeance. 
 The opponents use a wonderful rubber-band system, so when you get too far ahead they apparently 
 turn their car into a bat mobile. But when you get too far behind they slam the breaks. Either 
 way it's pretty predictable when racing on who will win. Another overall problem is the eventual 
 rise of boredom you'll receive. After a while, you'll be thinking, "not ANOTHER circuit race..." 
 Not to mention you'll get pretty frustrated on tracks 4 laps long through winding hills full of 
 unnecessarily rigid turns that the computer masters with ease, while your Supra crashes against 
 them. On hard mode be prepared to yell at the screen when the computer beats your out on the final 
 lap of one of the maps mentioned above because you hit traffic. 
  
  It was interesting to note that some people felt there should have been a damage system, such as 
 Gamespot. However, as much as you're running into cars, when racing and most importantly when driving 
 around, it would've been one of those "cool for 2 minutes" features. Nobody would want to drive 
 around finding repair shops because they nicked a car, or crashed into traffic. I felt that it 
 would've been fully implemental in Need for Speed Underground, but not this game. 
  
  One reason Need for Speed Underground was so wonderful was because you could mod your car to a 
 truly unique style. There are many cars featured in NFSU:2, ranging from the Mazda Miata, to the 
 Skyline that so many people love. This years version also adds SUV's such as the Hummer H2 and 
 Cadillac Escalante into the mix. You'll simply switch over to SUV races in the event you're using 
 one. Each car has a unique feel to it, but is forewarned, you'll need to do significant tweaking 
 and practice if you choose a car with low handling skills. It's a good idea to have a car for circuits 
 and sprints, and another for drags. NFSU:2 treats you to thousands of different parts and possible 
 setups. You can make use of performance shops to tweak your cars engine parts. Body shops allow 
 you to add side skirts, rear and front bumpers, roof scoops, and other great additions. Graphic 
 shops let the user design their cars layout with paint and vinyl. Finally one of the greatest additions 
 is the specialty shops. Need hydraulics, speakers, neon, side doors or window tints? No problem. 
 You can add it all. And if you thought Need for Speed Underground had a lot of features, EA made 
 sure to spoil you good this time around.
  
  The story is pretty simple for Need for Speed Underground 2. You arrive in the city and are immediately 
 found in a car. You'll notice that your car has a message system which is immediately used by Rachel 
 (Brook Burke) who tells you to return her car and pick out your own. Rachel serves as your mentor 
 throughout the game, and lets you know what you should be doing. Although Brook Burke makes an 
 appearance in the game, she only poses for still pictures. Personally I think it would have been 
 much more interesting if Brook Burke had done some videos. It's not like she's Halle Barry on demand. 
 Brook sounds okay vocally, but it's nothing too flashy. Eventually you'll trudge through the game 
 and build a 10 star car. The game itself is pretty picky on what parts you need to build a 10 star 
 car. Fortunately you can have multiple cars at once. So you can build your 10 star cars and buy 
 another to mod whatever you want. In addition, you'll no longer get reputation points in story 
 mode by drafting or performing stylish moves. Instead you get those points by the margin you win 
 a race. Although its not that great of an idea, its a much needed change from having to worry 
 about performance every race where now can just shoot for the win. 
  
  Graphically Need for Speed Underground 2 does a great job. With a 6800 GT, I was able to max the 
 graphics and really take it all in. The PC and X-Box versions both look comparable with no lag 
 or slow down times in between. The game runs very smoothly even while running your machine at 160 
 mph. The blur effect which was classic in the original is back but unfortunately is only utilized 
 when you use NOS (Nitrous Oxide) . Therefore, even at speeds of 160, you'll see really nothing flashy 
 unless you use your booster. Need for Speed Underground excelled in delivering the blur effect 
 even without NOS so it was certainly disappointing to see it toned down in this years version. 
 Fortunately you can refill your NOS meter by getting "avoided accident" or "drafting" when racing. 
 The city itself looks great, and you'll truly feel as if you were racing around the town in your 
 own car. However, it would've been nice if there was a time system. EA is obviously shooting for 
 a darker underground theme, but what's wrong with light? We saw it in Fast and the Furious didn't 
 we? Nevertheless, you'll act as a vampire in this game racing through never-ending darkness. The 
 city is lit up like Vegas though, so you'll have no problem seeing the alleys and shortcuts at 
 hand.
  
  The sound is the best aspect of NFSU:2. All the cars sound somewhat different and after you add 
 new engines, or other tweaks, you'll notice a change in the way your car sounds on the street. 
 It's a wonderful feature. You'll also make notice of the games sounds where you'll hear a great 
 "whoosh" as you drive under bridges and overpasses. On the negative side, everyone's voices that 
 come over your cars message system sound a little phony. I don't know why all of these games have 
 to call you "dawg" and "brother." It'd be nice to just have them say, "what's up man?" But sure 
 enough you get the language from the "hood" so to speak. And yes, even Rachel does it. Somehow 
 coming from Brook Burke, it just doesn't seem right. The music composition is somewhat similar 
 to last year, but it just doesn't do it for me. Generally the music seems kind of quiet, and doesn't 
 really get you into the racing. Last year made use of such great songs as Ride and Hero. This year 
 seems to have some pretty lame and uninteresting music. Finally, concerning PC, X-Box and I believe 
 PS2 users... why, OH WHY! won't EA let us add our own custom music? I'll leave you hardcore music 
 people to ponder that question and raise your fist in rage as I have done. 
  
  Online is ok. Generally you'll have one of two options. You can either race in unranked competition 
 and use your best car available. Or you can race in ranked competition where everyone uses the 
 same car. This is a much appreciated feature for people who haven't advanced far enough in single 
 player to mod out the best car for multiplayer. The only problem with the online mode is, there 
 is hardly anyone online. While its a relatively new game, the 'highlight' of Need for Speed Underground 
 2 is the single player mode. You're meant to have fun on your own, and while there may be some 
 die hards online, mostly its just people looking to play ANYONE. I experienced no lag or slowdowns 
 on a "decent" cable connection. Nevertheless, once a race starts you'll get a wonderful rush of 
 excitement, especially in ranked matches. 
  
  Overall Need for Speed Underground 2 offers more of the same thing with extra features. The only 
 notable difference is the open city in this years version. However, I feel the franchise is done. 
 EA really improved and implemented every possible feature into this years version. I think that 
 the Need for Speed franchise has a long way to go; however, underground is dying quickly. You'll 
 pretty much do everything all over again that you did in Need for Speed Underground.
  
  
  
  ZeR0's final verdict:
  
  Buy it, rent it... either way you'll have a blast. Although there 
 are some shortcomings most specifically in: cinematic, sound, online, and overall value, it's a 
 game that'll keep you interested over the holidays. And for a featured price of $39.99, why not. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kiatyi
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 27, 2004 12:52 pm PT
Review:  The Need For Speed Underground 2 is totally fabulous. Unlike the first, it lets the player drive 
 through streets looking for shops, challenging other racers in outrun races, taking photos for 
 magazines and finding races to compete in.
  When starting, getting to get used to the game is easy, just use the arrow keys and after awhile, 
 you are getting the hang of it. In NFSU2, you get to compete in Circuit, Drift, Drag, Street X 
 and URL races. Besides these, you also get to challenge other racers on the road with outrun races 
 in which you have to take the lead and get within a certain distance away from the opponent. You 
 also get to take photos for magazine covers and DVDs. You can go to shops to customize your car 
 to enhance its performance and also give more style to it.
  So in short, it is the best game to try and you should get it today.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kmilo_rws
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 25, 2004 12:03 am PT
Review:  Need for Speed Underground 2 is the best racing game to arrive in the PC since the first Underground. 
 With TONS of tuning options and a GTA-style gameplay, Underground 2 is a killing blow to those 
 who played who player the first Underground.
  
  If tuning is your thing, then Underground 2 will leave you spechless. Almost EVERYTHING can be 
 changed or modified. From the headlights to the spoiler to the.... tacometer?!? And you can also 
 build your own radio system for your car!
  
  The gameplay in Career - the game's main mode - borrows a lot from the GTA series. While not in 
 a race, you can drive around the city, looking for challenges, hidden garages, bonuses, racers 
 (which you can compete with to make a little money) and a little more. No more linear gameplay 
 like Underground 1, now you choose which races you'd like to race.
  
  The graphics and sound have improved not too much... it's a shame that it's more difficult to get 
 the motion blur (at leats 250 mp/h!!!) . The city looks very nice, so do the cars you'll see.
  The soundtrack is not as good as in the first Underground. While there are some good songs, most 
 of them are simply bad.
  
  To make it short, this is what Underground 1 should have been in the first place... despite the 
 motion "blurlessness".
  
  See ya guys, I'll go play for a while :P
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cloud
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 22, 2004 9:18 pm PT
Review:  The first that hits me is that important feeling you get when you know this is a game that is going 
 to bring you a lot of fun. It's not always clear what cause this feeling to bubble in my stomach 
 but in the case of NfS U2 it is the mix of speed and creativity. This game will never get boring.
 
  Despite what other say I think there is stuff to do while driving between the events. Looking 
 for races that doesn't show on map and racing free oponents. The latter doesn't pay off and neither 
 give you any good reputation but it gives you good experience when racing in the city. I found 
 out that the extra races are cruical if you want to earn some good bucks. In my case it's just 
 nice to watch and enjoy the beuty of the wagons that realm the streets.
  The money you get from the off-map races seems, for some reason, to be bigger than the ordinary 
 planned races. If you think about it, it's these races that is real and that I can see from my 
 apartment windows when some kids just borrowed there parents car.
  
  It's hard to get a good economics in the beginning. The money easily run off. I found it a good 
 tactic to seperate good perfomance with good looks into two cars. 
  
  The bad thing with this game is all the commercials. I really hope we don't have to follow that 
 road into the future of gaming. That would be devastating.
  
  The lack of visual details in crashes doesn't bother me too much. As for the sequal I find that 
 this game isn't about reality it's about beuty of cars, good music and speed. You don't go see 
 a drama when you want action.
  
  This game is made for the likes of me so I put it in my heart. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hjalonso
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 22, 2004 7:41 pm PT
Review:  The Score of Gamespot is very inferior to the score for this game 9.0, the games is incredible... 
 graphics, sounds, make your own car in millons of diferents forms... is an excellent game. In the 
 other hand respect NFS 1, the game gameplay is very different i can drive for all city for hours... 
 of course the city is big and beautiful, very 'underground city'. The graphics is espectacular 
 in my GForcec4 T4600 and the sound in my DTT2500 system is very impresive. I game for 60 hours 
 and im expect for game others 1000 hours :-) . Tha cars and the personalization is very big and 
 the things (mirrows, etc, etc) is best part of the game.... this game is for tuning everithing you 
 can think. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EXLINK
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 19, 2004 11:06 pm PT
Review:  After the first Need For Speed: Underground game, the series became popular. Now that the second 
 one came out a year later, is it better?
  
  Gameplay:
  The ability to customize your car has gone through unbelivable changes. You now have ability to 
 customize almost every aspect of your car. From the interior to exterior. You can also customize 
 the parts you add on to a great extent to get every little bit of juice out of your car. The ability 
 to also set your car to be better at circuit, drag, or sprint is also amazing. The free roam is 
 also a nice feature. Overall, the gameplay is awesome. I just don't like the fact that you have 
 to drive to missions or certain stores to get your car cusomized.
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics over the last one has not improved or decreased. The textures in some areas are still 
 pretty bad, but the reflections are nice. The lights that show the shops are pretty bad as well, 
 the other lights in the city are nice though. Overall the graphics are still above par, just not 
 great.
  
  Sound:
  The sound is great for the cars, but the crash sounds seem unreal. The songs are pretty bad, except 
 for some which are awesome. There isn't much to say about the sound except the voice acting is 
 average so don't expect anything great.
  
  Value:
  The online play is good for about a few months after the game is released, then less people join 
 online. Once you finish the game though, its fun to customize to make your own cars, as there is 
 over 70 BILLION combinations.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt:
  The game overall is really good. I wouldn't let this game go under 8.5 as it is still great fun. 
 If your into racing and love making your own cars, this game is definately for you.
  
  Version Tested: PC Retail
  
  Testing System: AMD Athlon64 3400+ (2.4GHz) , Nvidia Geforce 6800 
 Ultra 256MB, 1GB Ram
  
  Minimum System Requirements: 
  -933MHz CPU
  -256MB Ram
  -8x CD/DVD Drive
  -2GB Free Space HDD
  -32MB Video Card
  
  My Recommended Requirements:
 
  -1.4GHz CPU
  -512MB Ram
  -128MB Video Card (ATI 9600 and Up, Nvidia Geforce 4 Ti and Up) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: srunner01
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 16, 2004 12:54 pm PT
Review:  I gave this game a perferct score based solely on the last few Need for Speed titles. The last 
 few titles were very good as well but lacked everything this game now brings to the table. The 
 free-form gameplay of the city maps, the upgraded and more accurate physics engine, and mostly 
 the ability to see, hear, and feel a difference in the cars when you purchase and installed performance 
 parts. The ability to simply cruise around to each race and event allows you to perfect your skills 
 between races, the upgraded physics engines allows the cars to handle as real as possible. With 
 the physics engine upgrade there is no more 20MPH uncontrollable power slides, and donuts. As for 
 the performance parts, when you install a muffler you hear the difference in the exhaust note. 
 Also the Pontiac GTO, which is a V8 sounds like a V8 as in the last game all of the cars had the 
 same basic sound. Thank you EA for nailing this one. I haven't been able to stop playing this one. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gumpo
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 16, 2004 4:45 am PT
Review:  Sure, Need For Speed Underground was a good game, but when it came out it was missing a few key 
 elements that other games had already implemented. NFSU2 has learned a great deal from its little 
 brother, and not only has it embraced the features the original lacked, but it also mixed it up 
 with plenty of other new features, to make itself probably the best racing game of the year.
  
  So, let me start things off by addressing the new features of the game.
  
  The biggest 
 change you'll notice first in NFSU2 is its Grand Theft Auto like free roam. In career mode, you 
 take control of your car and drive around town, searching for different shops and races. There 
 are several shop types you'll find, Body Shops, Performance Parts shops, Accessory shops, and Paint 
 shops to be exact. As you find the different shops that are hidden throughout the city, you unlock 
 more kinds of car modifications. Luckily for you, once you find a shop, it gets added to your nifty 
 GPS map, so not only can you look on the map to find it again, you can also have your GPS give 
 you the fastest directions to it. You will also use this map to look through what races and events 
 are available for you to participate in, more on those later.
  
  NFSU2 has a few new race types tagging along with all the old ones. We still have Circuit, Sprint, 
 Drag, and Drift races, but now we can also play Outrun races, Street X races, and URL races. Outrun 
 races are very similar to all the races found in the Tokyo eXtreme Racer series - you're driving 
 around town or on the higway, come across a car, and race them untill one of you is signifigantly 
 ahead of the other. Street X races are circuit like races that take place on extremely tight maps 
 with lots of turns and few straightaways - very similar in most cases to the original drift maps. 
 URL races, or "Underground Racing League" are like a race you would expect to have in Gran Turismo 
 - essentially an extremely wide track with a few verying turn types and straightwayas, that you 
 have to do several laps on.
  
  With the combination of these new race types and the abiity to wander around the city, some of 
 the redundancy of the original is avoided - your not always doing the same thing over and over. 
 For instance, while you have to complete the same races to progress in the game, you can go about 
 them in any order you want. So, if one particular race is too tough, you can go do a few other 
 races, which will usually unlock some more parts, and then tackle the race you were having a problem 
 with. And if you get bored of one kind of race, you can just do a different kind for a while. If 
 you get bored of racing entirely, you can drive from shop to shop customizing your car with some 
 of the new mods, or just wander the streets looking for the cash that for some reason is just lying 
 around unatended in large quantities.
  
  NFSU2 also adds plenty for you to do in the garage. Once you buy some basic performance parts, 
 you can tweak them to your liking and test your car either on track or on the dyno. If your not 
 so into tweaking gear ratios, camber angles, and turbo pressure, you can just use the auto settings 
 to give your car a decent tune up to perform best in any of the race types. Of course, you can 
 do it manually as well, which can literally take up hours of your life with all the features that 
 are to be found.
  
  Thats not the only change to be seen in the garage, either. There are also a bunch of new aesthetic 
 additions to be seen. All of the scoops, fenders, etc. from the original are back, with an extra 
 dozen or so items in each of the older categories. NFSU2 also throws in lots of carbon fiber parts, 
 adding carbon fiver versions of just about every non carbon fiber accessory. Another cool addition 
 is being able to select from about a dozen headlight and taillight replacements, as well as different 
 colored bulbs for them. Still want more customization? Well good, because you can also replace 
 your doors with lambo style doors or suicide doors, and you can set up your hood to open in different 
 ways as well, plus you can choose the color of your parts under the hood and add a neon in there 
 for good measure. Still want more? Fine, they got ya covered. You can also make a custom trunk 
 audio system from a selection of woofers, amps, crossovers, video displays, and nos bottles, and 
 throw a neon in there too. Not to mention, you can put several types of hydraulics onto your car 
 and cruise the streets while you bounce up and down. Wide body kits are back too, along with conversion 
 kits to turn your ride into a totally carbon fiber bad boy. Still want more? Well... there's just 
 no pleasing some people.
  
  NFSU2's musical score is similar to the last, combining a good number of genres and artists that 
 should keep most players happy. You can still disable songs that get on your nerves, and you can 
 choose if you want them to play only in menus, on the road, or both. There are also a few exclusive 
 NFSU2 songs, one of which is by Snoop Dogg and The Doors, which happens to be a great remake of 
 "Riders On The Storm".
  
  There are about twice as many cars as there were in the last version of NFSU, and while i havnt 
 unlocked everything yet, i think its safe to say that there will be at least one car that pleases 
 everyone. The cars handling and power at stock levels are pretty well done, and the sounds different 
 engines and exhausts make is really nifty. For instance, a Honda Civic makes a sound similar to 
 a weedwacker, while an Eclipse makes a classic "vroom" sound, and the GTO and Mustang make lower 
 rumbling engine sounds.
  
  Now let me address my complaints with this game.
  Wait, i dont have any.
  
  All in all, NFSU2 turned out to be one hell of a game. I have yet 
 to try the Online play, but i assume its just as good as the rest of the game, and even if it was 
 for some reason poorly done, the game would still be excellent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Madhjo
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 14, 2004 8:35 pm PT
Review:  This game is just plain fun. Although the graphical improvement from NFSU ain't big, the city is 
 much more realistic and alot bigger. You can explore the city and just improve your driving skills, 
 not just drive races one after another. There are new modes that are very cool and alot more things 
 you can customize on your car. The sound in the game is also pretty good, there are artists like 
 Chingy, Snoop Dog and Queens of the Stone Age, which make the game even better. In my opinion it's 
 the best Need for Speed game yet and I hope it won't be the last one... time goes on and as far 
 as I can remember... NFS has always been there. There isn't anything much more to say..... the game 
 is just fun and it should not be missed :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phafnir
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 14, 2004 2:29 am PT
Review:  I played NFSU1 and the demo version of NFSU2 when it came out and now I've been playing the real 
 version and I have a couple of points to make:
  
  First off, I think NFS1 had better graphics on the whole, they were a lot smoother (I've been running 
 both games at maximum graphical settings and I had to readjust NFSU2 down a little bit in order 
 to get a decent frame rate) - now don't get me wrong, NFS2's graphics are beautiful, but when it 
 really comes down to it, NFS1's are way smoother - a couple of examples: the speedometers in regular 
 play and in drag seemed to have been an afterthought when the game was made - too jittery and very 
 hard to judge when shifting, especially in drag. The road surface is another - extremely pixleated 
 - looks like your looking at walls in the original Doom = )
  Is it just me, but when game developers try to make the graphics better for a sequal, they manage 
 to screw them up somehow, there are some exceptional sequals that the graphics got major overhauls 
 and they look great, just not here : (
  And moving to a stroryboard type story to move the action along, I dunno, I was hoping to see Brook 
 in all her stunning glory, not some 2D drawn image!
  
  On to brighter things!
  
  The sound is truly amazing! I was immediatly taken by the roar of the Pontiac GTO! The sounds are 
 awsome! Did I mention the sounds are GREAT!!
  
  The free roaming mode is also well done. It truly gives you the chance to really feel like you're 
 in the actual game inside a make believe city and not just selecting from a list of a series of 
 races and then beating the pants off someone! Congrats to the developers for making my gaming experience 
 immersive : )
  
  Oh, yeah, and the sounds are SUPERB! lol
  
  BTW, incase anyone is wondering about my computer specs in relation to my rants on the graphics, 
 see below - as you will see, I have a pretty powerful system:
  
  Intel P4 3.0Ghz Prescott
  Abit IC7-G Mobo
  1024MB Corsair 3200 TwinX Hyper Pro Memory CL2
 
  BFG 6800GT OC 256MB
  120GB Seagate SATA 7200 8MB
  SB Audigy 2 xGamer
  Samsung SyncMaster 712T 17" LCD
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spiderman18
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 14, 2004 1:08 am PT
Review:  Four words for this game, state-of-the-art. This is what street racing is really about, roaming 
 the city to accept new game modes such as Outrun challenges, Downhill Drift, Street-X, Showcase, 
 Underground Racing League, and you can't forget about your original challenges from the 2003 blockbuster 
 hit Need For Speed Underground. They've added alot of upgrades which can be found on your map, 
 certain ones like audio systems, side mirrors, spinners, and doors are some of the greatest things 
 you can have in a car these days if you like to impress alot of women and friends. Roaming on open 
 roads is the best feature EA Games have added to this, without this, it wouldn't have made much 
 because it would've turned out to be like Need For Speed Underground.
  
  Never forget about the new cars either, the main one I was looking for in this game was the Pontiac 
 GTO and I'm soo glad they put that on here, that seems like a great car in real life, so putting 
 that on here makes this game great, inspiring, and perfect for everyone to check out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nakamoto
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 12, 2004 4:37 am PT
Review:  NFSU 2 is yet another racing game from the acclaimed developer, EA Games. However, what sets it 
 apart from all the others is its ability to distinguish itself from all other games by allowing 
 the player to manipulate or "soup up" their vehicles from snails to Mach-3 jets on the ground. 
 I know what u are thinking, racing games aren't for me... but NFSU 2 does a good job to attract 
 new-comers or skeptics with an awesome set of music tracks and a new line of cars. The graphics 
 are almost the same, slightly improved, but once again the music and the environment makes up for 
 all that. The new, fully, emersive story line, reminescent of 'The Fast and the Furious,' is excellent 
 and almost 'pumps' the player into hype. So word of advice for all the racers out there... GET THIS 
 GAME!!! If you are new to the genre... RENT IT!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thef8lfox
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 11, 2004 4:08 am PT
Review:  My god my god... what a game... i've waited so long for this one to come out and had so many expectations 
 for this game... EA fullfilled almost every single one of them... the new NOS system is awesome, 
 rewards you for driving on the serious edge, and the free roaming outrun AI, unlike in the demo, 
 is vastly improved. The hydraulics on the cars provide for quite the entertainment, I've spent 
 about a half hour straight bumping my car, literally, to the beats... the hydraulics are a unique 
 touch. The game doesn't play all that differently from the original NFSU, but there are differences 
 in handling that you'll notice right off the bat... or should i say... plane.
  
  The free roaming mode, while new, gives the game a nice polish. It gives the game an added sense 
 of reality especially the outrun part of the game where just like in real life, you have to pull 
 up next to a tuner car match his speed and make sure you beat him by about a 1000 meters. Also 
 new to the game are shops where you drive into to add custimization to your car (s) .
  
  Gone are the days of yesteryear (NFSU1) where fancy animated videos explained the video, in it's 
 place is the new storyboard or comic strip part... the sequences in the game are expained through 
 these comic strips or through anime style graphics. 
  
  New to the online features of the game is the ability to create password protected rooms so that 
 only the people that one wants in the room can get in. 
  
  EA delivers big time in the sound department. The sound for the game is near perfect, if not perfect. 
 The engines all sound distinctly different, the sound also changes with performance mods and the 
 sound does justice to the upgrades you will buy with all your squandered savings from racing. The 
 playlist for the games features some very impressive songs.
  
  NFSU2 is worth every cent of the $39.99 you'll spend on the PC version... especially in these days 
 where PC racing games are dwindling by the year. The game brings back all the beloved features of 
 NFSU1 and more. Definitely a must buy for PC and for any fan of arcade racing or racing in general. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rogerho
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 11, 2004 3:48 am PT
Review:  After playing this game, clearly this is what the first NFS: U should have been. Looking back, the 
 first game had poor multiplayer support, ranging from a clunky server browser, bad lag and plenty 
 of cheaters. The single player was linear and the racing model was simplistic and not very challenging. 
 However the series has taken a big turn for the better.
  
  The developers added everything that should have been in this game in the beginning, and more. 
 The free roaming mode is very well done, the available races and shops are all shown on your map 
 as diferently colored dots, and a very handy GPS system can guide you to your selected destination 
 if you don't feel like getting lost. There is ALWAYS something to do, you can head to a shop to 
 customize your car, get a new car, take place in the various racing modes available or simply challenge 
 other drivers on the road to the new "outrun" mode.
  
  The driving model has changed drastically, taking turns requires careful braking and counter-steering 
 otherwise you'll end up in a wall, or worse, spin-out. You now have the ability to tune the performance 
 of your car such as, adjusting the hardness of your shocks and struts, torque/RPM ratios, brake 
 bias, nitrous concentration, center of gravity, top speed/acceleration ratio and alot more. You 
 can also take your car on a test track and tune it while driving! This way you can immediately 
 see the result of your tweaking. Just like in the previous game you can purchase performance parts, 
 however this time you have the option of purchasing them indiviually. For example, if you're lazy, 
 you can just buy the "Level 1 Weight Reduction Kit" or if you're more adept you may just want want 
 to remove your rear seats, but leave the interior panelling in place. You have full control over 
 what goes into your car.
  
  On the visual side of things, you will notice all of the old visual kits have come back along with 
 alot more. Hydraulics, spinners, nitrous purging, doors, rear view mirrors, audio systems, split 
 away hoods, engine and trunk neons, are all customizable in the game. The attention to detail is 
 so great, you can even choose the diameter of the wheels you put on and the make and model of speakers 
 you put in. As for graphics in general, the game uses an improved version of the NFSU1 engine, 
 directx 9 is being used again for light glows, motion blurring, fog, even the refraction caused 
 by raindrops hitting your screen. The engine looks alot nicer and can still be a challenge for 
 higher end rigs when put on maximum detail. Although I wouldn't worry if you have a low-end system, 
 there are plenty of graphical options available to get the game running at a decent framerate.
 
  
  The multiplayer has gotten a huge overhaul. PC users now can race with each other over LAN. The 
 internet lobby has been given a makeover with a much more intuative interface and more race options, 
 EA has also added an anti-cheat system that will disqualify anyone who cheats and warn other players 
 of people who have cheated before.
  
  The sound is very well done, any upgrades you make to your engine will change the sound given off, 
 and installing turbo will let you hear the blow-off valve everytime you change gears.
  
  As for the gameplay, it is very fun although it can get frustrating when you encounter a race you 
 can't win. The AI doesn't cheat as badly as in the last game and can be quite a challenge. The 
 race track aren't as straight and wide as in the first game, many of the tracks involve hils, sharp 
 turns and difficult corners, although there are are a few speed oriented tracks that take you on 
 the highway. Given the free roaming mode, the cars ranging from imports, muscle cars and SUV's, 
 the infinate customization options, and the improved multiplayer, NFS: U2 has plenty of replayability 
 potential. 
  
  It's a well polished game with a good single player and multiplayer mode, alot of road to race 
 on and many cars to play around with, even if you don't like the modding scene or racing games 
 in general, this is definately a game anyone can enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deepcold
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 10, 2004 9:16 pm PT
Review:  Let me catch my breath... i can't understand why i'm taking time to review this game because instead 
 of playing it... Need for Speed Underground 2 is SIMPLY GORGEOUS!!!
  The graphics are awsome, the sound is... is... addictive (just hearing the engine sounds make my arms 
 hairs raised) There's a lot of goodies to buy compare to NFSU. When you're buying a part (exhaust 
 upgrade as an example) the engine roar will change. There's the option to buy single parts upgrade 
 instead of buying a package (it cost more but...) the story is great, the map is 4 times bigger 
 than NFSU, lots of hidding secret stuff (like money bag) the graphic engine is frame rate friendly 
 (i'm running everything max out except the AA without any stuttering with a P4 2.66 ATI 9800 Pro 
 128mb and 1gb of DDR 333) Let me tell you something, NFSU 2 is the best racing game i ever played 
 so far. The only thing i wanted to have in NFSU2 that is not there is, car damage but, beside that, 
 It worth every dollar i paid for and, till NFSU 3 comes out, i'm keeping that game with proud. 
 You should see the eyes of my 4 years old kid when i'm playing (by the way, don't let your kids 
 watch that game for more than an hour because, they will talk about this over and over and over 
 :)
  Finally, all i can say is... Thank you EA for making such a masterpiece and, it's been made in Canada. 
 I AM CANADIAN!!! See ya on the track... 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
