-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Need for Speed Most Wanted
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/driving/needforspeedmostwanted/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Outrunning the cops is extremely exciting.
 Outstanding sound effects.
 Sharp graphics.
 Tones down some of the over-the-top product placement found in the previous NFS games.
 Mindblowing full-motion video cutscenes.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Racer AI isn't too bright at first, gets wicked smart later on.
 Not enough mindblowing full-motion video cutscenes.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 23, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.4
Critic Score: 8.2, 21 Review (s)
User Score: 9.0, 11,115 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Electronic Arts
Developer: EA Canada
Genre: GT / Street Racing
Date:     Nov 15, 2005 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Most Wanted is great fun, from its hysterical cutscenes to its extremely tense police chases.

  EA's long-running Need for Speed series took a trip underground a couple of years back when the 
 developer refocused the game solely on illegal street racing. While the nighttime racing series 
 was certainly successful, the lawless world was always missing one key factor: cops. This year's 
 installment crawls back into the daylight. The actual racing hasn't changed too much, but the ever-present 
 police make this game a whole lot more interesting.  

          Need for Speed hasn't had cops for awhile, and they make a welcome return in Most Wanted. 
     

  The game's career mode starts out with a hilarious bang. You take on the role of a nameless, faceless 
 new racer attempting to hit the scene in the city of Rockport. An underground ranking known as 
 the Blacklist governs who can race who, and when. You almost immediately run into a punk named 
 Razor, who's definitely the sort of dude that lives his life a quarter-mile at a time. He's at 
 the bottom of the list, but a few races later, he's sabotaged your ride and has won it from you 
 in a race. Meanwhile, you're carted off to jail. Left with nothing but some mysterious help from 
 a stranger named Mia, your task is to get back in the race game to work your way to the top of 
 the Blacklist, which is now topped by Razor, who's using your old car to wipe out the competition. 

  The game actually has a great story hook at the beginning that makes you want to see the career 
 mode through to completion. The early story segments are told through some sort of unholy mixture 
 of computer-generated cars and full-motion video actors. The acting in these early segments is 
 awful... awful good, that is. You'll scratch your head and wonder if these segments are intentionally 
 bad and meant to be played for laughs or if they're just unintentionally funny. Either way, they're 
 great. Unfortunately, after a brief prologue, you stop seeing video sequences, and the story is 
 conveyed via voicemails from various characters. Are you a cop? Will you get to utter the magic 
 street racing words, "Mia, I am a cop"? Or is the plot twist even more painfully obvious than that? 
 You'll have to see the story through to find out where everyone's allegiances lie.  

  Working your way up the Blacklist is a multistep progress. Before you can challenge the next Blacklist 
 racer, you have to satisfy a list of requirements. You'll have to win a set number of race events. 
 And you'll have to reach a set number of pursuit milestones and earn enough bounty by riling up 
 the police. The cops hate street racers and will give chase when they see you rolling around the 
 open city. You can also just jump right into a pursuit from a menu, too.  

  Running from the cops is the best action the game has to offer. Chases usually start with just 
 one car on your tail. But as you resist, you might find 20 cars giving chase, in addition to a 
 chopper flying overhead. Losing the cops gets tougher as your heat level rises. Level one heat 
 results in the appearance of just your standard squad cars. But by the time you get up to level 
 five, you'll be dealing with roadblocks, spike strips, helicopters, and federal-driven Corvettes. 
 A meter at the bottom of the screen indicates how close you are to losing the cops or getting busted. 
 Stopping your car -- or having it stopped for you by spike strips or getting completely boxed in 
 by cops -- is how you'll get busted. To actually get away, you'll need to get out of visual range... and 
 stay there. The initial evasion changes the meter over to a cooldown meter. You'll have to lie 
 low and wait for that meter to fill up to end the chase. This is probably the tensest part of the 
 entire chase, since you never know when two cops might blow around the corner and spot you, starting 
 the whole process over again. It all sort of works like some sort of strange, wonderful cross between 
 Grand Theft Auto's open city and Metal Gear Solid's stealth mechanic. All the while, you'll be 
 acquiring heat on your car. This means that you'll have to keep a couple of cars around, because 
 acquiring heat on one car lowers the heat on your other ones. Also, getting busted too many times 
 can result in your car getting impounded, though you can avoid that by resetting the system whenever 
 you get caught (if that's more your speed) .  

          The game's storyline is interesting and occasionally told through some amazingly hilarious 
 cutscenes.     

  There's also a lot of racing in Most Wanted's career mode -- almost too much, in fact. You'll engage 
 in multilap circuit races, point-A-to-point-B sprint races, drag racing, checkpoint-driven tollbooth 
 races, and speed trap, where the winner is the player that accumulates the most speed while passing 
 by a handful of radar cameras spread throughout the track. The races are solid but not spectacular. 
 The artificial intelligence doesn't really help things along, because most of the game is rubber-banded 
 like crazy. We actually set our controller down for 20 seconds -- then picked it back up and caught 
 our opponents on the final lap. And though the AI will occasionally crash and come to a complete 
 halt, it'll catch up very, very quickly. Later on in the game, you get a voicemail message informing 
 you that things are going to get tougher. At this point, the computer drivers magically start taking 
 every single shortcut, and the rubber banding only seems to work against you. As a result, catching 
 up after a mistake is much tougher. If this difficulty had gradually sloped up, it wouldn't be 
 a big deal. But flipping the switch from "drive like crap" to "drive like a genius" is really annoying. 
 Fortunately, the racing action itself is entertaining enough to keep you going, and of course, 
 you'll be dying to find out what happens next in the story.     

  The game has more than 30 licensed cars that you'll be able to purchase or win from other racers. 
 We started out with a pretty weak Chevy Cobalt, but eventually we picked up a much faster Supra, 
 a new Covette C6, and so on. You can also find the Ford GT, a Ford Mustang GT, and other cars from 
 BMW, Mitsubishi, Porsche, Lamborghini, Lotus, and more. You'll buy your first car, but as you move 
 through the Blacklist, you'll get a shot at the pink slip of the other racer, letting you ease 
 right into the driver's seat of a new, tuned vehicle. Buying them from scratch means you'll have 
 to apply enhancements yourself. You can buy a lot of different performance gear and a ton of visual 
 stuff, like body kits, spoilers, vinyls, and so on. Applying visual upgrades lowers your heat level, 
 making them pretty useful once the cops take notice of your faster cars.  

          As you work up to higher heat levels, the cops become much more aggressive in their response. 
     

  Aside from the career mode, there's also a challenge series that gives you a car and a specific 
 goal. Race goals are fairly easy to understand, but the pursuit challenges ask you to achieve specific 
 milestones, like blasting through five roadblocks or racking up a specific amount of property damage. 
 You can also just dive into quick races, or take it online. The online game is focused strictly 
 on racing, which is a little disappointing. Teaming up to avoid the cops or letting some players 
 drive police cars probably would have been more interesting. Still, the game offers sprint, circuit, 
 and drag races for up to four players, and it keeps an online version of the Blacklist going so 
 you can see who the most dangerous online opponent is. On the game-creation side, you can play 
 in ranked or unranked games, and you can specify a disconnection or "did not finish" percentage, 
 letting you manually weed out jerks. You can also turn off collision detection between players 
 if you want to prevent people from just crashing into one another throughout the entire race, but 
 that's only possible in unranked games. All in all, the online is functional, but without any sort 
 of pursuit mode or other police-tinged races, it's awfully standard.  

  Graphically, the game looks great, overall. But when you break it down, some parts of it look better 
 than others. For the most part, the game does the large city environment quite well. The different 
 parts of the city give a nice sense of variety, and the car models look sharp, especially when 
 you start painting them with crazy triple-colored paint. The game delivers a pretty good sense 
 of speed and seems to scale reasonably well to fit different PCs. There's a level of detail setting 
 that gets the image quality up to around the Xbox 360 version's graphics, but when that and the 
 resolution turned all the way up, you're going to need a really tough machine to get a playable 
 frame rate out of it. The game doesn't have much car damage at all. You'll see your rear window 
 crack up after a few good wrecks, but there's never any real damage to your vehicle.  

          You'll probably find yourself wishing that the game consisted solely of police chases, 
 rather than occasionally saddling you with its more-standard racing events.     

  On the sound side, the game has outstanding engine noises that change depending on which car you're 
 in and which upgrades you have. The rest of the sound effects are also of excellent quality. The 
 game uses quite a bit of voice acting in the story, which is good. But the best voices come from 
 the police. When you're being chased, you'll pick up the police band and hear them communicating 
 and cooperating as they try to take you down. The cop talk sounds awfully authentic, and you'll 
 eventually decipher the police 10 codes and figure out when they're going to lay out spike strips, 
 set up roadblocks, and so on. While the 10 codes used don't seem to be the actual ones the real 
 police use (at least that's what a little basic research told us) , they sound good enough to be 
 realistic. The music included is the standard mix of rock and hip-hop you've come to expect from 
 EA's games, including a few songs from Styles of Beyond.  

  While the actual racing in Need for Speed Most Wanted is probably the weak link in the chain, it's 
 still solid enough to keep you interested as you move from racer to racer, working your way up 
 the Blacklist as you go. But the real stars of the show are the police, who give the series a much-needed 
 shot in the arm. If outrunning the law sounds like your idea of a good time, you'll have a great 
 time here.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (604 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: rohitmitra5752
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 28, 2009 11:42 pm PT
Review:  Need For Speed Most Wanted or NFSMW as it is better known in the gaming fraternity is the best 
 race game that I have ever seen in my life so far. Having played other NFS games like the previous 
 versions of Hot Pursuit or High Stakes, as well as a few recent games like Carbon, Pro Street but 
 there has been none like NFSMW.
  
  1. Gameplay - Like all NFS you get to see the back of your car. A speedometer will indicate your 
 speed and HUDs will notify you whether you need to shift the gear up or shift it down (manual transmission 
 mode. In automatic transmission mode the gears will be shifted automatically.) . The cars are as 
 interactive as they were before (i mean about the crashes into them) . One interesting fact about 
 Most Wanted is that the objects in the game are interactive as well. You bash into a water tower 
 to bring it down crashing and defer the police cars chasing you. You don't need to initiate a lot 
 of these police chases, they simply catch up with you when you are driving rash.
  
  2. Story - Yes, that's right! Story. It is one of the very rare racing games that contain a story. 
 You are a city racer, who is challenged by the most wanted road fugitive. You end up losing your 
 car, your rep and get busted into a prison. And when you come out from behind the bars, you've 
 got only one thing on your mind - REVENGE. Now you must race up through the most wanted list of 
 the cops to get that infamoulsly coveted spot of being MOST WANTED by the police.
  
  3. Music - The music is any day the best ones implemeted into a game. It's got no background score, 
 but it was a good move considering that the music in the game is so very marvellous. y pesonal 
 favourite is "Nine Thou [Superstars Remix] ".
  
  4. Graphics - I wont say that it has got mind-blowing graphics, but it would be unjust if I ignored 
 the fact that the graphics was quite decent. The physics engine was used to it's maximum and it 
 can be easily felt when using a Nitro boost.
  
  Special Note : A special mention must be made of Multiplayer. The basic proxy proggying of the 
 game is so lucid that even a 3rd grader with a modem can connect to a network or a VPN to play 
 it. And NFSMW over a LAN or over the EA server is astounding.
  
  This game is a must for those who love speed or cars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NavySEAL09
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 19, 2009 8:13 am PT
Review:  i've barely played this game, i just installed it last night, but so far it seems pretty tight. 
 it also seems like a typical nfs game -- drive fast, dont crash, and win the race. yeah, sure, you 
 can make your cars look prettier and perform better, but that doesn't say much for the game itself. 
 they need something different to make individual games in the nfs series stand out -- and this game 
 doesn't have it. i mean, i haven't gotten real far into it thanks to one thing -- BUGS!! my game 
 always crashes after you race razor for real, the race where they show him take your car afterward, 
 so maybe that's why this game is nothin special to me so far, but i'm not expecting anything different. 
 if you're talkin about the game itself, i'd say the best part of it is the storyline. but, of course 
 the cars are awesome. i mean, come on, it's nfs, the cars have always been awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: filya1
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 2, 2009 11:28 am PT
Review:  Lots of cars, great graphics, good physics and hours of fun! But this does not do justice to the 
 game. 
  This game provided me with about 2 months (a few hours a day) of single player joy. Then, a few 
 buddies and I played multiplayer, and that was even more fun! 
  All in all, a must-play game for adrenaline fans!
  
  Season mode :
  You need to complete 
 a minimum number of challenges (race wins, bounty, damage) to be able to challenge a driver on 
 the black-list. You beat him/her, grab the pink-slip to his/her car (if you are lucky) and continue 
 on to the next on the list.
  As you go higher up the list, each challenge would take you about 5-6 takes, before you are successful. 
 Thats a few hours of play for each driver. 15 of them, and you have a 40-50 hour season. 
  Of course, you will need to get better cars, customize them according to the track/race and change 
 it's looks to evade the cops. 
  By the time you end the season, it's a pretty nice sense of accomplishment!
  
  Multiplayer 
 :
  Good enough multiplayer mode, with plenty of tracks, opponents and options. On higher difficulty 
 levels, it's a nice challenge to win!
  The way my friends and I played it was having tournaments, where we manually entered times/points 
 etc into an excel sheet. If this was incorporated into the game, it would have been amazing, but 
 can't complain too much about it. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowluv12
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 14, 2008 7:14 pm PT
Review:  NFS: Most Wanted is probably one of the BEST racing game ever made. The cars are great with good 
 graphix, the races are exciting, fun, cool and full of un expecting turnouts. Josie aka Mia in 
 the game is such a hot chick that it grabs ur attention right from then first scene you'll see 
 when u start career mode. 
  
  Mia was a hot chick and once you see her, you'll want to see her again very soon. I really like 
 the cops and the cars. the races are really really exciting. I really like the introduction of 
 each of the key players like the Balcklist 15's, it really makes the game really exciting with 
 the real human clips of the scenes. Overall it's a heck of a great game at a great low price right 
 now.
  
  Need for Speed: Most Wanted is probably the best in the NFS series in my opinion. So, ENJOY THE 
 GAME and hope you become the MOST WANTED! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kevinjia32
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 13, 2008 4:23 pm PT
Review:  You see the review deck? That's my favorite part of the entire game. That's the final cut scene 
 in NFS Most Wanted where Sgt. Cross Explodes.
  Scratch the graphics, scratch the sound, let's just talk about the cut scenes.
  I don't care 
 what anyone says, but NFS Most Wanted has the best cut scenes. I don't know if the director intended 
 them to have such interesting personnas or to act like that, but it's a great game. 
  
  GamePlay: NFS Most Wanted's ultimate goal, is to well, become the Most Wanted. You move up in ranking 
 on a "Black List". The game is intriguing and really sucks you in. Hundreds of cars to choose from, 
 and almost an infinite amount of customizable options. After you finish the campaign, quick races, 
 challenge series, or just play the campagn again with different cars. Challenges are difficult, 
 and very easy at the same time. Perfect for hard core racers to use the manual transmission (which 
 is a challenge) and great for new or intimidated racers. 
  
  Sound: The car sounds are amazing. SFX sounds are also detailed.
  
  Graphics: Colourful textures 
 and surrounding bring the map to life. Enough said
  
  Overall: Buy this game. It's in the bargain bin now for 15 Dollars.
  My Score 8.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CliX098
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 6, 2008 7:58 am PT
Review:  This is the best game in the Need for Speed series. It has plenty of thrilling cop chases and awesome 
 racing. It also has very superb graphics on the PC. Nice customizing choices are availablein this 
 game. The chases have very fun pursuit breakers that do what the name of them suggest. Slamming 
 into the cops is fun bcuz it often takes them out. This is the best in the series bcuz it has the 
 cop chases and you earn rep as you go on the blacklist. Cutscene cop chases are the best cuz they 
 end when the most important cop being taken down. This game also has some of the greatest sound 
 effects with the shifting of the cars and the engine sound of the cars. After you do races, you 
 can play them again and still get the same amount of money. I dont know about you, but I like that. 
 Even to this day, it remains the best in the entire series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mehboob_j
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 12, 2008 9:31 am PT
Review:  (*-*) Today first time i played this game, it was not that much new for me because i played Need 
 for speed underground 1 and 2 and it is familiar with them. i really enjoyed it and my comments 
 about this game are that it has more things that are not included in the previous games of Need 
 for speed 1 and 2. the Cop chasing and the Black list features are really good and the Car parts, 
 parformance and car audibilities under one roof is also good for players not to run for sarching 
 the shops for upgrading cars. one thing i found bad is the maing menu style, which is like an old 
 time simple developed game. the other bad thing is that it has very less amount for winning a game 
 and the purchasing of car upgrades is very expensive. which cause the gammer to play a lot and 
 win just to buy a spoiler or hood etc. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lonewolf1196
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 9, 2008 3:39 pm PT
Review:  This game is fun. It has good action and you can realy appreciate the intense races. That said 
 it can be frustrating when your on a track you hate or just cant master. Althougth it is still 
 a pretty easy game on most courses you can just outspeed the oppistion. Like I said races can be 
 inteanse speeding gaining feet ahead of your rivals on the edge of control just to step off the 
 gas to nailurn and stay ahead. traffic can be fun to swerve around and if you get stuck in a aleey 
 r under a truck dont fear it is easy enough to get back ahead just beware that last tight turn 
 before the finish line. The cops can be fun and intense in there own right. at level 1 you can 
 easily race ahead and youll have to slow down to complete your milestones after all how can you 
 ram cops doge roablocks and destroy property from a mile ahead of the police. at level 2 undercover 
 cops prove better faster drivers. at level 3 they start sending every thing they got after you 
 cops undercover cops suvs and roadblocks. At level 4 they use helicopters roadbloks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NYuuRaKuS
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 5, 2008 7:23 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Quite unique. People say its just a "newer" hot pursuit, but I havent played that, so 
 I think its innovative. The first NFS that I played with a story trying to be a movie... and it 
 pulls it off. A nice selection of cars, and fair amount of customization. The pursuits are fun 
 and unrealistic (but its arcadey so its ok) . Escaping high pursuit moments is qutie a feat, but 
 the AI remains dumb when you camp on high places and they crash into each other. I've gotta say 
 this is probably the best NFS yet (hopefully Undercover will be better) . The only problem is that 
 cops only target me.... what about the other racers... sometimes the cops attempt a rolling stop 
 during a race... WTF??? 9/10
  
  Graphics: BOO! Ok.... so back in 2005, I thought this game was pretty.... so Ill rate according to 
 that. I probably gave it a 9/10 then. But compared to games now, it is primitive. Running only 
 up to 1280x1024. It's still alright, prostreet was really a step up in the graphics department. 
 9/10
  
  Sound: This game wowed me in audio back in 2005. Cars sounded close to their real-life versions. 
 The police-radio sounds authentic. And the sirens make others around me wonder whats going on. 
 The cast does a nice job of acting. 10/10
  
  Controls: Back in the days, I used handy logitech ps2-looking- controller. It was far from perfect, 
 but worked nicely with this game. Now, I've tried the PS3 and 360 controller.... each works fine 
 but its weird how the "ok" and "back" buttons are preset. It's also hard setting up the controller 
 as I like... with NOS and the speed breaker buttons hinder my setup. Still, it offers much more 
 customization than say.... Juiced2  .  
  Overall, I think I rated it something like a 9.5/10 before (under a diff SN) so I'll give it that 
 again.
  
  edit: oh yea, downshifting feels weird, since the brakes.... brake... so quickly... I also dont like 
 how reverse is braking and it automatically shifts to first gear due to this... not really manual... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Traindskilla
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 26, 2008 11:48 am PT
Review:  This game is awesome! I have played the game all the way through and it was really fun. Car customization 
 is pretty good. And the graphics are great, considering the year it was made. The story is pretty 
 average for the NFS series, you are an incredibly good racer that is rising in the ranks of the 
 police's most wanted list; the black list. You're racing this one punk-ish idiot named Razor that 
 cheats and sabotages your ride before the race, and takes your pink slip. Your goal is for revenge 
 and revenge only, to crawl back up the top 15 and beat that jerk, Razor, and get your BMW that 
 you love so much back. Besides the average-ish story, the game owns! There's a pretty good selection 
 of cars too choose from, and the AI racers are good, if not a bit to hard sometimes. The cops are 
 excellent to run away from, and it really is exciting to see that huge SUV fly into the air when 
 you hit it at 220 mph. The music selection is OK, though I don't really enjoy rap all that much. 
 
  
  The problems with this game are minor and few, though perhaps a bit frustrating. 
  For one, you are never realy racing for pinks. Yeah, you can win your opponents pink slip if you're 
 lucky and choose the right marker, but you will never lose your own. You can either restart or 
 exit, and even exit will just start you back near the safe house.
  The other thing that got me was that you never get to race at night! I mean, I guess that since 
 you're trying to attract police attention you would do it during the day but still, it would be 
 more fun to play at night. Besides that, though, I can't really think of much more problems with 
 the game. So what are you waiting for? For? Go out and get the game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sexyman123abc
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 16, 2008 7:03 pm PT
Review:  this game was the right length for a game and it iis so fun and geting to custimze your car is 
 even better with the boss battles and runing from the cops...!!!!!!! !!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!  !!! !!! !!!! !!!!! !!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 !!! ! !!! !!! !!!!! !!! !!! !!!!! !!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!! !!!!! !!!11!! ! !!!! !!!! !!!!!!!!!! 
 !!!!! !!!!! !!!!!!!!!! !!!!!! !!!!! !!! !!!!! !!! !!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!! !!!!! !!!!!! !!!!!!! !!!!! 
 !!!!!! !!!!!!! !!!!!! !!!!! !!! !!! !!! !!! !!!!!!! !!!! !!!!! !!!!!! !!!!! !! !!!!!! !!!!! !!!!!! 
 !!!!! ! !!!!! !!!!!! !!! !!!! !!!! !!!! !!!!! !!! ! !! !! ! ! ! ! ! ! !!!!!! !! ! ! ! ! ! !! !!!!!!!!!!!! 
  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: interpolation7
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 3, 2008 7:15 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game used and i think i paid too much for it. After making it to 30% progress I took 
 the CD and patched my software with a piece of pliers and a garbage can.
  
  The good: 
  Its better than pong and NFS Prostreet. Excellent music, cutscenes, and styling. The CD's make 
 good frisbee's.
  
  The bad:
  Its worse than pac man and NFS Underground. Doesn't support high resolution or widescreen formats, 
 Unrealistic controls, unrealistic driving model, unrealistic arcade physics, unrealistic dumb AI, 
 unrealistic car specs, unrealistic dialogue, did I mention its unrealistic? 
  
  EA needs to refine the player experience and provide different difficulty settings, and aracade/simulation 
 options (or at least a balance of both) , and AI player/cop behaviors that aren't incredibly repetitive 
 and unlike the real world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ayasdutta
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 20, 2008 7:05 pm PT
Review:  Need for Speed: Most Wanted for the PC is an amazing game. Let me break it down for you. You basically 
 free roam around the city and you can race or you can find some cops and have them chase you so 
 you can smash them and evade them for points. So the story is there is this list. A list of the 
 top drivers and you used to be on the top of that list until some cops stopped you and you got 
 locked in jail. And the person who was second on the list gets your car. So once you're out of 
 jail your back racing but you're all the way down to the bottom of the list and the new top driver 
 has your car. So you do races (or DESTROYING cops) to get points and when you have enough points 
 you can race the next person on the list and move higher and get more points ECT. And when you're 
 at the top of the list you race the guy and win your car back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aires457
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 9, 2008 9:50 pm PT
Review:  Need for Speed: Most Wanted for the PC is an amazing game. Let me break it down for you. You basically 
 free roam around the city and you can race or you can find some cops and have them chase you so 
 you can smash them and evade them for points. So the story is there is this list. A list of the 
 top drivers and you used to be on the top of that list until some cops stopped you and you got 
 locked in jail. And the person who was second on the list gets your car. So once you're out of 
 jail your back racing but you're all the way down to the bottom of the list and the new top driver 
 has your car. So you do races (or DESTROYING cops) to get points and when you have enough points 
 you can race the next person on the list and move higher and get more points ECT. And when you're 
 at the top of the list you race the guy and win your car back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: godofhell2
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 28, 2008 10:28 am PT
Review:  Positive
  - Great sense of speed
  - Many races, 32 cars and the cops
  - Outstanding sound effects and voice acting
  - Challenges series are good and challenging
 
  
  Negative
  - Graphics aren't that great
  - Game is short and fairly challenging
  - Races start to feel repetitive, the city feels to closed
  
  I played the PS2 version of Most 
 Wanted and that was a superb game. The PC version without a doubt is as great as the PS2 version. 
 Need for Speed Most Wanted is a very enjoyable game filled with cops. That sounds interesting and 
 it can hours of fun outrunning them. The cops seem more like the star of Most Wanted rather the 
 actual street racing.
  
  I already wrote this in the PS2 review but I'm gonna say something. The game starts off with some 
 races and then you lose and lose your ride and so you have to start over and build up reputation 
 and make the cops crazy until you defeat 14 blacklist drivers and challenge Razor, the one who 
 toke your ride and beat him and get the ride back. Simply story and enjoyable, still it's too short. 
 Cutscenes are impressive but there aren't much of them. There are a couple of races and milestones 
 to do before challenge a blacklist. Races consist of tollbooths, where you must make it in time 
 to reach one of those and if you complete them all you go a win. Speedtraps is the most interesting 
 event. Unlike the others, even if you're not first and you have the fastest time when passing under 
 the speed ticket sign, you win. There are the normal races which consist of circuits and sprints. 
 Milestones are really fun. Some are speed ticket and other include the cops. Not in all races, 
 the cops are available. If the cops appearance is maximum, normally they appear and interfere. 
 There are 5 levels of cops. There are other 2 but those are for special occasions. Earning bounty 
 is important, each boss has a number of bounty, and races + milestones you must get. If you don't 
 he won't challenge you. It's an interesting game and the cops are really exciting. There are also 
 hiding spots which when in cooldown you can to avoid the cops. Once you entered one of these spots 
 without being seen, you can say that you escaped from the cops. In Free Roam you can easily encounter 
 cops by running at full speed or doing some damage. There are shops which you can buy cars, upgrade 
 your ride, etc. At first you won't have all cars, you have to defeat bosses to make vehicles available 
 for you to buy. If you want more info, check my other NFSMW review, there are more about the story 
 and the pursuits. 
  
  Graphics aren't that great. Staring at the screen won't do you much good 'cos the graphics seem 
 to have that yellow color which make things tougher. There aren't glitches in the game and other 
 than the graphics, everything else seems good. Though the career mode after you beat all the blacklist 
 there isn't much to do and lacks some challenge, otherwise practically nothing. Still some races 
 are a little repetitive and the 3 'cities' seem to small and there is sometimes not much room to 
 evade the cops. 
  
  Need for Speed Most Wanted is a worthy and superb addition to an excellent NFS series. Graphics 
 aren't that great as the previous games, but the cop appearance make this an awesome game. This 
 is definitely one of the best street racing game to glaze the PC yet and a game that everyone who 
 likes racing should own, and those not really interested in this genre, checking this own won't 
 hurt. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vsem_Pizdetz
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 25, 2008 4:21 am PT
Review:  Although I think the NFS series has gone dramastically downwords, Most Wanted was a very fun game 
 to play. The police pursuits are amazing, the player actually feels fear of getting caught since 
 you cannot just exit to the menu, save and restart the chase. You must completely evade the police 
 cars in very exciting pursuits with very specific details. Such would be the listing of which laws 
 the player has broken (speeding, ramming a police car, hit & run, etc) , police strategies to stop 
 you and various versions of police themselves, starting from easy classical officer cars to impossible 
 racing Corvettes. This game offers the best police pursuits ever in my opinion. 
  
  The races are fun too, with different race types. The AI gets better as you progress through the 
 game, which also offers an interesting story line. 
  
  Graphics are very good.
  
  Car customization is very good.
  
  
  Game is great. Although not a sim, its very very fun. 
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fandom888
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 31, 2008 6:20 am PT
Review:  This new installment of the need for speed series is one of the best racing games ever. First of 
 all the plot is really worth its money: you must become the most wanted racing-criminal in Rockport-which 
 means collecting a respectable bounty, dealing with the cops, battling with other racers (even knocking 
 them out of the race) , and finally dueling with the other blacklist racers. Apart from all these, 
 the games offer a brand-new racin' experience as the racing challenges you can enter are many. 
 Furthermore, you can select your car from a great variety of 32 cars, while you can customize it 
 with many features, from hoods to the colour of your rims.
  
  Despite all these, nfs most wanted is considered a hard game to beat, spending to much time in 
 front of your pc. To make matters worse, the difficulty rises up when your instant bounty rises 
 up, too.
  
  Nevertheless, these cons are not able to keep most wanted away from being such a great game-a game 
 which I highly recommend you to play.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: afwsl2003
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 14, 2008 6:26 am PT
Review:  I have been a great fan of the need for speed series from its inception and I have played every 
 one of them too. I have always had this opinion that racing game too need to have a storyline to 
 make the player of the game interested and hold him on to his seat. Underground one and two had 
 a storyline but they were not so big and they didnt have a thrilling factor attached to it. But 
 I was mesmerized when i finished need for speed most wanted.
  
  Everything a racing game needs is on it. The cars are awesome, the world is big and beautiful, 
 great races and many more. The storyline looked a little out of sorts in the initial stages but 
 when it got going it blew me away. Awesome direction. 
  
  Each and every time there is a cop chase your heart pound twice faster, and it beats even faster 
 when the heat level goes. You know what, the ultimate goal of a game should be to entertain the 
 player. The maximum entertainment comes when you are thrilled to the limit. I dont know how to 
 say this but I dont think there would be any game to beat this one when it comes to racing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gumeh
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 12, 2008 10:19 am PT
Review:  =preview=
  
  one of Need for speed series, which variety car can u built-up, upgrade, and win the race to gain 
 alot of money on there.
  
  =gameplay=
  
  such as most racing game, but with a few innovative gameplay. there are a few game mode u can choose. 
 i cannot memorized the game mode, but there are alot of interesting game mode. there are a lot 
 of police mobil who patrol the area. u must run off or destroy or give damage to gain hitpoints. 
 if u win the race u can gain alot of money, that can be use to upgrade ur car in mobilshop. u can 
 change ur bodyshop car, and almost all pieces ur car can be modified. u can choose a famous car 
 such as porsche, BMW, or civic. u can modified at least 2-3 race. very innovative than others series.
 
  
  =graphics=
  
  good... good details.. good car details... good crashh... good environment details... even in low settings. 
 yeah at least the graphics make u will sit down an hours to play it. this game can run with minimum 
 requirements, even with vga card built-in. with pentium IV processors and 512 mb RAM and 1 GB at 
 least u can run and enjoy the speed. the soundtrack very funky and fun to hear that. 
  
  =all performance=
  
  it's good, really good for the interesting gameplay. i very enjoy to crash 
 out the police (just in the game) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thedragons20
Rating: 10
Date: May 29, 2008 8:41 am PT
Review:  The cops are back. Though you can't be a cop like in the other Need For Speed games. You have to 
 be cautious if you don't want them to be after you  that means, you have to drive slow (well, 
 slow enough) , you can't drive off the road, bash into things, and other cars. Of course, if there 
 are no cops patrolling around, you can do whatever you want.
  
  Your main objective in the game is to make your way to the top of the blacklist. The list has fifteen 
 racers. You have to beat all the racers, and at the end, win against the leader in the list, Razor. 
 At first, it's very easy to defeat the opponents, but later on, it gets harder and harder  you'll 
 have to complete more milestone events, races, and collect more bounty.
  
  There are many types of races in Most Wanted  Sprint, Drag, Speedtrap, Lap Knock out, and more. 
 Each is very fun and challenging. In the Speedtrap challenge, you have to drive through each speedtrap 
 as fast as you can. The racer with most points wins. In Lap Knock Out, you have to avoid being 
 the last, because after each lap, the last racer is eliminated
  
  If you win a race, you have to choose one out of six cards. Each card gives you something different 
  the defeated racer's car, more visual parts, more body parts, etc.
  
  Need For Speed is getting' better game after game, this one you play hours and hours to be #1st 
 in the blacklist, but this isn't enough... you've to be the first in all rankings, win all races 
 and complete all than milestones to complete 100% of the career mode. To complete all the game 
 you've to do all challenges and of course complete the career mode. 
  
  Is the game over now? Just if you don't play on internet... show that you're the number one in 
 the world blacklist, be the best player of the world win respect.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kerosine18
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 13, 2008 2:47 am PT
Review:  I bought this game in 2008, even though it was released almost 3 years ago. After reading game 
 reviews of this game I thought of giving it a try for myself, and I was anything but disappointed.
 
  
  The game is fun & challenging, which is exactly how I wanted the game to be. I admit that it is 
 also addictive, as the thrill of climbing up the blacklist grips you!
  
  One amazing thing in this game is the cutscenes it features, especially where the real-life characters 
 are set against CGI... that is just awesome and amusing to watch! :)
  
  The graphics are superb, especially considering that it's a 2005 game, and the sound is very well 
 prepared as well. Cars sound different from each other, and I am sure the sound would rock on a 
 5.1 system for example (I only have 2.1 at the moment and it still sounded 3D) .
  
  The game has a lot of replay value, through both story-replay and the Challenges section of the 
 game. One thing you'll want to replay is evading cop pursuits... they're just fun and tough at 
 the same time, and when the heat goes up, the tough gets going for you!! Add the achievement of 
 milestones to that and you'll spend hours hooked to the game.
  
  One final thing - be prepared to get frustrated as well... more than once I failed to evade the 
 cops after getting a 'Check' next to every item on my milestone checklist: that failure means over 
 15 minutes of tense running around lost, an impound / loss of cash, and a must-restart grunt from 
 my side!! ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mircea_calarasu
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 8, 2008 8:21 am PT
Review:  Racing games like Need For Speed Most Wanted can affect your physical condition temporarily and 
 quite noticeably. No I am not talking about a sore finger or aching eyes due to excessive use of 
 mouse buttons or rapid eye movement -- I am talking about the physical outburst of excitement. Most 
 Wanted, at times, literally made me way too excited in the process of escaping cops.
  
  The NFS series in the past had used cop chases; but the Most Wanted installment has made it quite 
 challenging. The cop chases are not only mandatory to earn higher reputation/bounty points, but 
 its one of the basic gaming elements to move to higher level of races.
  The cop chase elements themselves were designed cleverly. As chases prolong, the heat level rises 
 and the cops become increasingly aggressive. At one point literally, it becomes an issue of your 
 nerve -- because a chase can prolong for 25 minutes (I embarked on such un-escapable situations 
 several times) . God I hate that situation, and I love it. Well I mean off course when you are busted, 
 its not a big deal.
  
  Well NFSMW has successfully implemented this make believe chases really lively. But this is just 
 one key elements of the game. The main game is winning various types of underground races and move 
 up the underground racers ladder. The races themselves are good enough to make this game a hit 
 with the gamers. But its the cop chase elements that made the game so extra-ordinary.
  
  The NFS has a dedicated fan base because of its beautiful graphical presentation from the first 
 installment of the game. So you should expect a detailed city map where you roam around freely, 
 car shops where you get wide range of modifiable cars (you will have to unlock the advanced cars 
 by winning races and earning higher bounty points) , lively music and sound effects. This is the 
 basic expectation from NFS.
  
  With the cop chases, NFSMW adds some street-side elements to stop or digress the cops from chasing 
 you, and hiding spots to escape the cops. 
  
  However these may be inadequate when hordes of cops are chasing you and your heat level has gone 
 up to level 4.
  
  Overall, this game give you maximum excitement in the NFS series and definitely a must experience 
 for all gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zain_45
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 27, 2008 3:22 am PT
Review:  i just tried this game on the pc and thought it would be good but somehow i didnt like this game 
 at all....... i mean it was just sooo boring....
  
  in genral i dont like car games so maybe that y but i just could not play the game even if i wanted 
 to or maybe i just misunderstood the whole thing
  
  but yea on the bright side the graphics were good......... the cutscenes were like out of the world 
 especially the human figures lookes so real as if it were a movie in a way but i didnt like the 
 gameplay at all.
  
  But Need For Speed is indeed a good brand........ it survived for a good number of years so maybe 
 it is good and i just didnt like it that way. I myself am not interested into car games anyway 
 so anyone else who is into car ganmes may enjoy it but i would say that people who are not into 
 car games would not like this game at all....... Only for hardcore car race gamers or people who 
 have tries it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: magusat999
Rating: 1
Date: Apr 22, 2008 11:27 am PT
Review:  Plenty of people have commented on each and every aspect of this game. I'm going to touch on what 
 gave me the willy's and eventually led me to uninstall it completely (I did, however buy it for 
 the Xbox and my review for that version is here too) .
  
  Most Wanted could have been one of the greatest racers ever - if it weren't for a few glaring deficiencies. 
 First off, the idea of "rubberband AI", where the opponent cars catch up whenever you cannot see 
 them anymore, was a frustration and irritating aspect. It did not make the game more "exciting", 
 it made the game broken. Not only did they catch up, the blew right past, no matter how much better 
 your car was then thiers. That is just plain silly.
  
  As if that weren't enough, add in the "attack mode" - where the whole game attacks you whenever 
 yoou get in the lead. Suddenly cars appear right in front of you; your car "sticks" to objects 
 / walls; your recovery time becomes extremely long; you car becomes difficult to handle - and you 
 get a game that is intolerable!
  
  As if that weren't enough, the engine will not let you catch up if you lose your lead! And you 
 WILL lose your lead. The "catch up feature" only works for the cpu operated cars - the cpu will 
 not allow you to "catch up"!
  
  It's a shame that this game has so many flaws as to make it unplayable - because on the surface 
 it looks like it it could be a very great game. The police and other chalenges are buckets of fun, 
 and the construction of the game is exquisite - too bad the handling issues muck it all up.
  
  finally, the PC version has problems all of it's own. Even for the most robust systems the 
 game barely eeks out at an acceptable speed. It seems to be another game made for systems that 
 are not out yet. when will these companies figure out that people just want to buy a game and put 
 it in their existing systems and play (do we have to "upgrade" and Xbox or Playstation every time 
 a new game comes out????) . Make games for what's out there - because by the time we upgrade to 
 your lofty expectations we aren't thinking about your title anymore anyway. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GsusZealot
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 15, 2008 7:27 pm PT
Review:  Need for speed Most Wanted is one of the greatest racing games of all time!!! It has stunning Graphics ( 
 if your PC can handle it!) and real to life occurances!!! This game gives you a coice of three 
 cars ( the cobalt is the best, just take it!!!) . You can race on highways and through tunnels and 
 under trucks!!!!!! The funnest part of the game is that you get to run from the Law!!! Police cars 
 chase you and as the chase gets more intense so do the police cars that are trying to knock you 
 off the road!! They will first try to push you off the road, so make sure you have a strong car 
 when trying to escape! Second they will slam the brakes when directly in front of you in order 
 to stop you!! Third they will set up spike strips on the road in order to stop you, avoid these 
 AT ALL COSTS!!!!!!!!!! Fourth they will send helicopters to mess up your sight by kicking up dust 
 and eventually attempt to knock you over when they get really aggressive. Finally they send SUPER-CHARGED 
 SUVs after you, If you are going for bounty try your best to survive If not, Evade as quick as 
 possible!!!!!! The funnest part of the game is when you drive at full speed into a roadblock and 
 they fly 50 FEET IN THE AIR!!!!!
  The whole goal of the game is to earn bounty, once you earn enough bounty you just might become 
 the MOST WANTED!!!! The only downside is that it only has 32 possible cars to buy. = ( Other than 
 that it is one of the greatest ever!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cobra_fox
Rating: 9
Date: May 27, 2008 2:14 pm PT
Review:  This is a fun and simple game to play. Even if you are not too into racing games its easy to play 
 as its not like Gran Turismo where you need to learn racing techniques to get somewhere, its a 
 simple and fun semi-arcade racer that will stick you like glue.
  
  The games main career mode is basically a story of a street racer trying to build his way up the 
 blacklist which is basically a leading list of the top 15 street racers in the city. It has a little 
 more depth to it than that but its not really a story driven game which is good for a game like 
 this as it wouldn't work too well. 
  
  The game is broken down to two main things racing and cop chasing. You may find though that you 
 will be in cop chases more than you race as the Cop AI is very well done though far from perfect. 
 The cops in this game have 5 heat levels the rise up as the chase goes on, though you need to progress 
 in the career to see them too. As the heat level rises the cop cars get faster as in heat 1 you 
 only get small Crown Victoria cop cars but in level 5 you get Corvette cop cars, they also use 
 a large number of ways to stop you including pit maneuvers, roadblocks, rolling blocks, roadblocks, 
 Rhino SUV's and even a police helicopter that may sometimes swoop down to try to fly in your way.
 
  
  Cop chases are also a main part of the game as to challenge a blacklist racer you need to meet 
 certain targets called milestones in a cop chase (it could be anything from ramming cop cars to 
 smashing though roadblocks or being in a chase for x amount of time etc) 
  
  As i said the cop AI is far from perfect they sometimes crash into their own roadblocks when at 
 speed they also have accidents with traffic a little too often sometimes, this does adds the realism 
 though as its quite satisfying watching a cop car crash head on with a rig at 120mph or watch the 
 SUV's pile into the cop cars after you doge them coming at you. 
  
  
  The racing in the game is well done but not too in depth you race 3 other AI cars in ether sprint, 
 circuit, drag, eliminator and speed trap races to earn money, sometimes in the race you may bump 
 into a patrolling police cruiser but the race still continues even with the police on your tail. 
 You also have races to challenge the blacklist members.
  
  The car AI is not the most intelligent but its enough to provide a challenge until you have a fully 
 modified car then you can win win gaps of over 30 seconds. 
  
  You get a very nice spread of cars to choose from too as you progress in the career you unlock 
 all kinds of cars from a VW Golf to an Aston Martin DB9, you also get Lamborghini's, Porches, a 
 Ford GT , a mustang, plus a few others. They all can be modified with performance upgrades and 
 you can give them a nice visual tweak with body kits, vinyls, paint jobs etc though its not as 
 detailed as underground but the customization is not a major part of the game, so you can leave 
 a car looking stock and not get penalized for it.
  
  
  Overall a great game to enjoy even after you complete the main career you can still play around 
 in free roam and engage in cop chases or redo races again. cop chases are probably this games best 
 feature as the AI is always a constant challenge and at the highest heat level you can get up to 
 25 cop cars with unlimited backup after you and since you can't do any real damage to your car 
 you can be as aggressive as you like and total theirs, the physics engine is very good for that, 
 you hit a roadblock at high speed the cop cars get sent into massive cartwheels and roll along 
 the road just like in a Hollywood movie, great fun to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deadlynatas
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 10, 2008 6:10 am PT
Review:  This game will keep you on your toes til the very end. I have pleayed a few online games and it 
 seems to be active. There are some glitches in this game but nothing bad. Great thing i like is 
 all your achievements come from plaing the game and beating the blacklist. There are more then 
 enough races to keep a gamer going and I think there is a replay value pretty well. I think the 
 graphics and go a little past my head going two hundred miles per hour but who doesnt want that 
 lol! This game has some custom options on the cars and its fun to see the story go on by. I think 
 any one should at least buy this or try it for them selfs. The story can be alittle corny because 
 dude you race takes your car but then shoots to the top of black list but other then that the milestones 
 on this game are fun has different race types that keep things changing up and the bounty part 
 of this game is nice. I like to see a corvett chasing me or a police chase lasting well over 30minutes 
 if you want. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nuseir
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 17, 2008 3:44 am PT
Review:  well .. it is crazy .. and wild.. and very very fast.. lots of fun , but their is a downside.. it is 
 abit repetitive ,but the good thing that even if you are board ,if you give it a rest
  for a couple of days or a week or two and paly it, it feels fresh and fun .so let me put points 
 to it :
  
  1. gameplay : repetitive but lots of energy and fun .. and the laws of physics don't apply ,so you 
 get to smash every thing and live to drive the same car ,but the races and challenges become repetitive 
 after a wile ,but the good thing is that if you take a break from playing the game it will be as 
 fun as the first time .
  
  2. graphics : just grat .. although a bit gloomy atmospher but still great .but you need a good 
 card to see it .
  
  3. the next like sound , tilt and value are excelent since it takes a long time to play so you get 
 your moneys' worth . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LittleDuck
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 13, 2008 4:59 pm PT
Review:  Need for speed Most wanted is one of the newer breed of Need for speed games made by massive company, 
 get it out there asap company EA. Alot of this game can be looked back on from the need for speed 
 games of old like hot pursuit. But when you do, you realise how different they all are.
  
  Hot Pursuit took place over a range of different environments and had an old arcade feel to it. 
 This is much more of an open world travel around in your car game. However I am in England, fitting 
 most into the category called indies. It is not a title I give myself, it's what i get for not 
 wanting to be a chav, who need us to have tags, for some bizare reason. Basically Idies are cool 
 people who have no need for tags. Chavs only care about tags and nicknames like dicko and headwipe 
 and lol5090 to name a few. They're the kind of people who would abreviate evry wrd n rmve mst of 
 D vwles 'n a sentnce 'cos it makes u look well 'ard. Aparantly. That kind of person. These are 
 the people who stick a 5000 ft spoiler on the back of a car to make it look good and play music 
 with around 10 billion beats per minute at a sound level that makes your ears bleed. These are 
 the kind of people who would love this game, as this game is full of them. The actors, the AI drivers, 
 most of the music (Which can mercifully be altered to allow only rock) and most of the customisation 
 is chavy old school drag racing. Personally I would have like a bit of KISS tag for my car and 
 a big gun for all others without it. But thats off topic. 
  
  The game is based around you and your car. You have a wide variety to choose from, scrapping the 
 hot uber cars of old and bringing in aparantly cool cars, like clios. You are then aloud to customize 
 the caar, with some of the most horific paint jobs known to man. By the time you're done, most 
 peoples cars are being chased by police due to multipile blinding. 
  
  However design aside, driving is, well dam good. You always feel in some way like all the cars 
 have a personality. Sort of. Take say the Punto. Nice fiat car. Looks a bit pigish. Drives alot 
 pigish. Doesn't corner too well and doesn't go too fast. Unless you customize it to kingdom come, 
 with a big engine and so forth, and then it goes like a pig on a diet.
  
  Now lets take the lotus. This is a smooth looking, aerodynamic car. It handles awesomely. You know, 
 when you turn, your going round that corner. You know it'll get you there fast. And when you put 
 pedal to the metal, it'll be off like a fly. Every car has it's own unique aspect to it in this 
 way. Aston martin, good alround, all be it heavy steering. The Laboughini, happy in a straight 
 line. Put it in a corner and it'll get round and skid like mad.
  
  The races are pretty good too, normally lasting around 5 minutes each, they are never slowing and 
 always yearning for more. The AI can be, at times, challenging, but you can customize, pretty much 
 all driving aspects, so it is best to get ready for each course. I just made an all round car and 
 got on with it. But throw in a few cops in the race and you'll feel the difference.
  
  Next in comes the chases. Now these are really something else. If you want a game where you run 
 like crazy, this is what I would recomend, cos there really is not limit to adrenaline flow in 
 these. It is the big selling point. The game's environment may be soley urban, but the chases are 
 so dam good. The police will always try and box you in, always try to outwit and out gun you. They 
 will constantly be throwing cars at you, sending in chopppers and trying to get you to stop. But 
 you have to go so far to get to this adrenaline filled world of either game over or game on. More 
 than once I was shouting at the cops screaming is that the best you can do? Only to find the best 
 they can do is round the corner in the shape of two fat SUVs. The engine will never fail. Honestly 
 this is worth getting for these. With a fast, nippy car, which can keep it's ass on the road, you 
 will have hell' fun.
  
  As for multi, well I have a fear of online so I'll skip that, but I guess it would be like Halo 
 3 chat with a smattering of burnout with no crashes. I think that'd work.
  
  All in all, this is a good game. The voice acting, contary to gamespot belief, is not good and 
 pathetic. At times I wanted to throw up it was so bad, the movies, mercifully, were kept to a low 
 and the game is over in about 40 hours. All I can say is have fun!
  
  (I would have given it a 9 but the movies fill me with the wanting to puke) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PredatorRules
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 8, 2008 9:20 am PT
Review:  ok, so...
  after finishing it here's my opinion, 
  
  graphics: 
  amazing graphics, the graphics are pretty old BUT lots of effects been added to this game, the 
 so called "overbright" gives the game so much of graphics I'm wordless, and the rain effects and 
 all reflections and stuff are so good, I really can't describe it - you just got to see it by yourself 
 - put it up to the max graphics and be ready to be stunned by the beaut, sometimes the overbright 
 is just too exaggerated, I mean when you come out of a tunnel you basically can't see sh*t, I thought 
 I'm going to Heaven or something but I didn't - instead I sometimes rammed a car because I didn't 
 saw anything (at this point I defenitely should've gone to Heaven :lol:)
  anyway the graphics overall are amazingly great - when the sun is set the whole road is filled 
 with overbright which is realistic, and when there's rain the graphics are so good that you feel 
 you're driving on a wet road, the blur is good it's adding alot to the game and it's not exaggerated 
 which is good unlike in Underground or Carbon, anyway as I said before the graphics are amazing 
 and you have to check them out by yourself AND it doesn't require ultra computer to run it on max, 
 I own a HD2600XT, 3.2Ghz singlecore and 1Gb of RAM and it's running on max pretty damn good, most 
 of you have even better computers with dual cores and 2Gb of RAM and stuff and of course better 
 video cards :lol: 
  
  story: 
  well it starts pretty good with interesting story, you have to get all the way to the top of the 
 "black list", and a cop named Cross is hot on you (not that kind of way :lol:) , anyway you have 
 to beat up a dude named Razor which took your ride because you lost... not telling anymore of the 
 story - just play the game! :D
  the story contain great cinematics combined real people and special effects that you saw in the 
 movie "300" (those that saw the movie) 
  the story is pretty much simplistic, I mean it starts great and end great too but in the middle 
 of the game which is most of it, you only get little clues of the story which is kinda bad because 
 it's just racing basically without a story, I mean you kinda forget about the story in the middle 
 of the game which is bad, but don't get me wrong I was focused on beating those racers on the black 
 list :D
  
  music/sound:
  the tracks in this game are great, some of them made me get other songs of those bands in the game 
 - great rock bands such as: Styles of Beyond, Avenged Sevenfold, Disturbed, Celldweller, Static 
 X, Bullet For My Valentine,
  other than that there's T. I and Lupe Fiasco - good hip hop singers
  the sound of the police on 
 the radio and all is good, the engine sound is goddamn good specially of the Ford GT and the Lamburghini 
 and i'm with crappy onboard soundcard and only 2.1 speakers, those that own X-Fi and 7.1 speakers 
 - I only can say one thing   enjoy :)
  
  gameplay:
  ok this is pretty hard to say about the gameplay, it's overall great - the control of the car and 
 the game is just plain, the game is difficulty normal and good but sometimes it's so freaking hard 
 I almost broke my computer - i'm not lying, I mean when you have to make the pursuit 8 min long 
 and tag like 35 police cars that's not easy and in the end of at all you suppose the evade them 
 - on level 5 yeah sure... and some races were so hard, it's basically hard but not extremely hard 
 just hard in a way it's good (95% of the races) .
  there's not too much customizing in MW which is total great - coz Underground 1 and especially 
 2 had WAY too much customizing - the main purpose of MW is racing and not the beauity of the car 
 which was in Underground 2, not mentioning all those stupid commercials "Kenwood" and others which 
 had nothing to do with cars.
  the gameplay in MW is just great - there're 5 levels of heat which says how hot your ride is, at 
 each level the cops will use more sophisticated methods to get you busted such as roadblocks, spike 
 strips, police chopper to assist their units on locating you, better police units, "kamikaze" cars 
 and finally sergeant Cross himself with his car, there's also a thing in the game called "speadbreaker" 
 it's basically handbreak with a slo motion effect - it's so cool, it allows you to maneuver better 
 to dodge those "kamikaze" cops and the roadblocks - specially from those darn spike strips, using 
 the speedbreaker to ram a roadblock or spike strips units is so cool you can watch those cop units 
 fly over you while you continue driving, sometimes the pursuits in it got so insane that cop cars 
 were flying over my car - I thought for a second that i'm in some Matrix movie or somethin - so 
 COOL :D
  
  best in series just because they've combined Hot Pursuit games and Underground games in 1 game 
 (cars, customizing, police)
  there's challenge thing in the end of the game which is good too and the multi is pretty fun (overall 
 about 40 hours without the multiplayer)
  i'm recommending on it! ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Amaan05
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 1, 2008 1:35 am PT
Review:  Lets take only races first as in every racing games! It has special features like Career and Challenge 
 series however at the start let me tell you about quickraces....
  
  it has good number and different types of races.. 
  In every racing event it is fun to have challenge 
 from other cars. The games is not too hard and not too easy! 
  
  In Circuit races -
  GOOD - Rather than simple legal races in games where we just have to drive good, NFSMW brings you 
 in city streets with shortcuts, obstacles and other places where you can take advantages. Circuit 
 races give you a chance at the starting laps to indentify the surroundings and track. After some 
 laps when you are familiar to the track you are able to get advantage of the surroundings. When 
 cops get us chasing while the circuit race we have to handle cops for laps and be ahead of the 
 racers. It was not a difficult task though but it brings more fun!
  BAD - Opponents don't take all the shortcut, so either we take the shortcut and make race much 
 easier and less challenging or don't take the shotcut and keep the challenging fun but leave the 
 fun of city street races!
  
  In Sprint races - 
  GOOD - We doesn't have to repeat the track. Each rotation of a wheel gets a new road's part . In 
 this we have to show our driving skills, like in circuit racing we get familiar with the track 
 but in sprint we are not so whenever we see anything advantageous we have to make a quick move. 
 This needs quick thinking and gives crisis fun where decisions have to be taken quickly!
  BAD - If somehow you got behind the racers and left a far back. You'll not get good chance to reach 
 them back. Since many tracks of sprint races are at highways and do not have much turns and have 
 simple surroundings. The fastest car has more advantage then best driver!
  
  In Speedtrap races -
  GOOD - It is different type race which is not found in most of the racing 
 games. Rather than just finishing first like in sprint and circuit races it has different rules. 
 It also need quicker thinking while you are near a speedtrap. You have to think quickly and so 
 take the action to ignore the surrounding and traffic and get your wheels faster. If your opponents 
 did a great job and get ahead of you in total speed trapped and half of the race is still left 
 then ou have good chances to do well. It is not much easy to recover but also not very hard. EA 
 has also thought well to make the rule that the last one finishing can't be first, so one cannot 
 stay behind and when it is all clear then he moves, you have to be with other racers or move far 
 from them with skillful play, thinks it more challenging and secure fun!
  BAD - Faster cars are in advantage. We use nitrous while at the speedtrap and gets better rate 
 of speed trapped however our opponents never do it.
  
  In Drag races -
  GOOD - We have to make quick moves and handle te car greatly. It is tough to get through this short 
 race.
  BAD - It gives you complicated driving. You have to control you car carefully but you cannot control 
 your surroundings and take advantage. It takes away the fun to race in city streets.
  
  In Tollbooth races -
  GOOD - Needs perfect driving. In this race just good car will not help 
 you. You have to drive before the time drives you off! Simple like checkpoint races but city streets 
 make it more fun and tough!
  BAD - Sometimes you can't enjoy shortcuts and street racing!
  
  
  'CAREER MODE'
  This is the main 
 part of NFSMW. If you haven't completed this you haven't played NFSMW. Lets you have the chance 
 to feel like streetracer. This you not only race, you live it! Gives you a better feeling of street 
 racing. From DRIVER you have to earn the rep to be called Most wanted RACER. Earning money and 
 having pursuits are gives it the title 'Street racing'. Have you garage filled with cars. Update 
 and modify them, paint and give them a look. Here you not only race with skills but also style. 
 It is a lot easier at the begining while you eliminate the starting 4 of the blacklist which is 
 essential becuase it makes you better and worth moving ahead to complete you game. The game gets 
 challenging, no too hard not too easy. It gives challenge which gives fun. It gives you chance 
 to try each feature of NFSMW. You can play all the races, you can try milestones which are challenges, 
 try pursuites and higher heats, grow in RAP SHEET. You can move freely in the city and get familiar 
 to the parts and dicover shortcuts of the city. This helps you in pursuit and races to take advantage! 
 It has hard to explain the fun in review. You don't only move ahead when you eliminate any of the 
 15 rivals. You'll get chance to earm cash get there cars for free and more. First be worth to challenge 
 a rival and then defeat. Just get yourself rollin'. Trust me you'll get fun in this career. The 
 story is good, good make of movies. Shortclips while you make a good action while racing makes 
 it more interactive. However everything was great but it could be more better if they wouldn't 
 have shown us one of the best car at the startng of career.
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  'CHALLENGE SERIES' 
  In career you can select you own car, track, pursuit starting position. But here it gives you selected 
 things which makes it more challenging. Its upon you what you like. Each even is challenging and 
 fun!
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  SPECIAL PORTION FOR PURSUIT - 
  Pursuit is the most addictive and different part of NFSMW. It give sweating conditions. Think fast 
 or busted. In career grow you heat and see what the police can do. It is the main thing that makes 
 you feel street racer. It is not usually found in racing games. You have a freedom to move anywhere 
 in the city but take decisions wisely or pay!
  -----------------------------------------------------
  
  This was all for gameplay now a little 
 for graphic, sound and other features.
  
  GRAPHIC & SOUND -
  Well defined graphics, good work at movies, while driving if you make something like stunt i. e. 
 jump or break through pursuit breakers (obstacle that help to eliminate police cars) or roadblocks 
 it shows in slow motion with good direction of camera. It makes it more interactive in appearance 
 too. You can't comment much on sound, its perfect!
  
  Cars-
  It gives access to many cars. But yes you have to unlock them. You can't ride them until you are 
 worth driving them. You can modify your car yourself. 
  
  Tracks- 
  They are good because they are in city, they have shortcuts, obstacles and nice surrounding. The 
 city is not small but not too big. I wish they had a little more larger city. For better tracks. 
 It is still good!
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flippr_NF
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 12, 2008 6:22 pm PT
Review:  I've played almost every Need for Speed game since the original, and Most Wanted ranks up there 
 among the best of the bunch. The high points are definitely the police chases, which can be frustrating 
 at times, but also can bring you into the game physically. Your heart will pound and adrenaline 
 will flow as you see those two SUVs bearing down on you as you fly down the road at over 200 KMH. 
 One time I had over a million dollars racked up on a single bounty chase and evaded the police, 
 but I was nowhere near a cooldown hiding place, so I sat still where I was watching the cooldown 
 meter creep ever so slowly towards full. Somewhere around 75% I heard the crackle of the police 
 radio and the chase was back on. It's immersive, entertaining, and downright fun. If you skipped 
 it when it came out, go look for it used someplace, and enjoy one of the best NFS games ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bdbuster
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 11, 2008 10:16 am PT
Review:  Plenty of cars, part up-grades, great handling, graphics, plenty of different style races, huge 
 free-roam environment to get 'er up to top speed. Not to mention all the cops that will be chasing 
 you if you are in a car that is on there wanted list. If so just change the color of your car or 
 just go to your garage a jump in one of your other cars that they're not looking for. But don't 
 break any laws or they'll come after your other rides too. This game has everything all the other 
 NFS games have and more. I could go on.. and on...
  Let me finish by saying buy this game it's all you'll need until they come out with it's equal. 
 NFS PROSTREET SUCKS! The only thing good about it is the graphics. Get NFS MOST WANTED! It's da 
 bomb! Trust me!
  
  PS. Don't forget to buckle up, hang on & God Bless! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: patrick00746
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 29, 2008 1:55 am PT
Review:  start from Grand TurismoGTand play station i start to play racing gaming cause and this type 
 of game you can modified your racing car to the outcome of your racing car..............
  and that point i rely don't like need for speed cause of some type of the game or the game play 
 of the game i dint rely like it..........
  until the day come that they release underground and my friends share me a copy cause he want to 
 play underground to my PC when he's around and my house.......................
  and that they i start to like underground and also till they release underground II and as the 
 first underground i like it...................
  but any way before i forgot let's go to our main topic the most wanted.............
  game play 
 are rely nice to play i having fun pursuit some moron cops that first i don't rely like cause they 
 disturbing me, while im running, concentrating to the race and when they chasing me i always laugh 
 of them cause they like an moron easy to run a 
  the game detail is so good nice structure and also my monitor getting wet when and the games start 
 to rain like GTA Vice City...............
  they make a lot of difference and most wanted also nitrous, you can have nitrous going to the pro 
 nitrous it means more speed and the gas, also after biting blacklist you can choose two types among 
 six choices and random also there's a chance that to get the car of your blacklist opponent and 
 among choices and also ung get some unique upgrade or a unique paint..............
  you wont ever know until you try this one men.................... so find out men, find  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thatmy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 21, 2008 11:18 am PT
Review:  Need For Speed Most Wanted is the best series among other editions even today I am still playing 
 more freqently than Carbon and Pro Street.
  
  Good things I love it :
  NFSMW has the best manual gears but lousy gears.
  Good story contents compare to carbon and pro 
 street.
  Good game interface and themes, excellent than carbon and carbon better than pro street and pro 
 street sucks.
  Back viewing is great together with rear mirror. Carbon no rear view but got rear mirror and prostreet 
 has no rear mirror but has rear viewing. lol
  Reverse gear instand engage once press brake key 1 or 2 sec compare to carbon and prostreet from 
 drive gear swift to neutral and then reverse gear. 
  Free roaming is vast and long distance than UG2 and carbon.
  Cops are exciting.
  By the way, 
 what happens to the Farreri cars since NFSUG?
  No hardware conflicts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cornel_72
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 18, 2008 11:51 am PT
Review:  Need for Speed Most Wanted continues the street culture thing, but EA's Canadian development team 
 has mined one of the better iterations of the series, Need for Speed Hot Pursuit, fusing both rudiments 
 into a newly refined, yet strangely familiar racer.
  
  NFS Most Wanted is a well-balanced, challenging, and substantial racing game that's worth your 
 while on any system. It returns the series to its cop chasing days while incorporating street cars, 
 culture, and an impressive display of stylized FMV without forgetting the fundamentals: People 
 like to drive sweet-looking, fast cars, they want more than a little freedom, and hey, if there 
 are a bunch of hot chicks too? All the better.
  
  Something Different
  Though this is obviously a racing game, the first, most noticeable aspect of Most Wanted is the 
 story and presentation. The game is draped in a crazily chromed out, sepia-tone landscape of industrial 
 structures, and populated with heavily bloom-lit FMV characters. The first time you see the story 
 being told, like me, you will probably gasp in horror, "Wha??? The return of crappy FMV?!?!?!!! 
 OOOHHH NOOOOO!" But this mixture of animated, highly colored FMV characters and stylized backgrounds 
 is both imaginative and refreshing. And it's risky. I mean damn risky. I wouldn't touch FMV with 
 a 50 foot pole if I was a developer these days, but this presentation is creative and striking. 
 The actors aren't phenomenally awful either, which helps.
  
  Race and smash the hell out of aggressive but dumb cops.
  The story is a typical Saturday morning 
 special narrative. It spins an unimaginative tale of revenge and restoration of order, and the 
 bad guys, Razor, and the local cop who meanly keys your car in the beginning of the game, are just 
 annoying and evil enough to get your goat. From a creative standpoint, the story is worthless, 
 but EA liked its trial run with Brooke Burke last year in NFSU2 and retained a less cold, angular 
 female figure to narrate this game with Josie Maran (who, in my opinion, is svelte, curvy, and 
 far better at her job than the icy Burke) . So, you'll keep wanting hook up with her as often as 
 possible.
  
  But that's not all. The tutorials and blacklist characters are introduced with flair and a friendly 
 'tude. Whole chunks of the background dramatically drop into place to form a landscape before you 
 start a race, and the whole presentation is laced with slick, stylish graffiti and flickering Fight 
 Club imagery. I like it all. EA may be a corporate, market-driven mega-company with monopolistic 
 tendencies, and this may be just another attempt to tap into the "underground street" market, but 
 it's done with appealing artistry and smart style.
  Depending on which version you buy, you'll also receive a different technical set of visuals. The 
 PC, GameCube, and Xbox versions display minimal to no flickering or aliasing, while the PS2 version 
 instantly gives away its limitations. Each one holds at a smooth 30 FPS, and there are several 
 instances where breakaway cinematic scenes show off inspiring jump sections. The car models are 
 especially sleek looking too, and EA has added to its car modding menu professional pre-made designs 
 specifically made for each car, so no two are alike. Also, for whatever dumb reason, on the PS2 
 the camera change option is located under the game option menu, as opposed to on-the-fly camera 
 changing for the other systems. That feels like a mistake.
  
  Race Or Die
  If you've played NFSU2, you'll recognize a lot in NFS Most Wanted, which re-purposes much of the 
 previous game. A handful of racing types returned - circuit, drag, and sprint - while drift races 
 and racer x events get the axe in favor of a straight-out speed events. In the Career mode, you 
 must work up the Black List of 15 racers who stand between you and Razor, who's not only snagged 
 your hot rod, he's taken the number one spot.
  
  A bunch of races require beating before a racer on the Black List is willing to face you, and these 
 races can be picked in any order. There are two kinds: Races and Milestones. The Black List racers 
 require a minimum of each to race, so you might compete in four milestones and five races to gain 
 enough notoriety to challenge him or her, while the next competitor might require you to achieve 
 three milestones and four races. The choices are all variations on A) straight racing and B) avoiding 
 the cops, so while it seems like there might be a big difference between speed traps and sprints, 
 or Cost of State and Violations, there isn't much. The streamlining of the race variety isn't too 
 big of a problem, but the game's variation is slimmer than in NFSU2 and can get dully repetitive.
 
  
  Pick your race and earn kick-ass new vehicles after each win.
  That's where GameBreakers and PursuitBreakers come in. A GameBreaker is essentially Bullet Time, 
 which at this point has been incorporated into just about every game from shooters to platformers 
 and adventure games (Thanks, Max Payne!) . This feature might help gamers take especially tough 
 turns, zip underneath an 18-wheeler, or straighten out after a tough jump. I never used it once, 
 but my brother, who rarely plays racers, tried it out at IGN Live and loved that particular feature. 
 That was his hook into the game. I never needed it, but apparently it works. Each to his own. PursuitBreakers 
 were far more fun and definitely feel like they've been influenced by Burnout. These are special 
 destructible objects in the environment. When you drive underneath them, they collapse, causing 
 cops to stall, pause, top in their tracks. These objects range from water towers and gas stations 
 to yachts and radio towers.
  
  Once you beat a racer on the Black List, the progression system kicks in. You earn money by winning 
 all races, but by defeating a member of the top 15 list, you get the chance to pick two "markers." 
 Markers are like tokens. Each racer has three hidden markers, and a few obvious ones like cash 
 or special mod parts. The hidden markers are way more fun, adding surprise to each race's winnings. 
 Hidden markers range from an extra $10,000, get out of jail free card, or, if you're lucky, the 
 pink slip to the competitors' car. Your chances are 66% that you'll get it, but you never know.
 
  
  The currency system works well, and it's restricted so cheaters cannot instantly upgrade and smoke 
 the game AI. Players can spend earned cash on four levels of upgrades, each unlocking new parts 
 for either performance or visual upgrades. The upgrades for spoilers, rims, hoods, trunks, rails, 
 etc. are exactly like the ones in NFSU2, except here you get the custom designed cars. For instance, 
 if you missed out on winning that Mustang or RX-8, you can take those earnings and buy a new car. 
 All upgraded and modded cars can be brought online and raced in EA's much improved online lobbies. 
 Gamers also can get in and out of online races faster with fewer hiccups and dropouts.
  
  Weigh Shift
  The range of cars is fat. The complete list includes: Aston Martin DB9, Audi A4 
 3.2 FSI Quattro, Audi TT 3.2 Quattro, Audi A3 3.2 Quattro, BMW M3 GTR, Mercedes-Benz SL 500, SL65 
 AMG, Mercedes-Benz CLK 500, Dodge Viper SRT10, Fiat Punto, Ford GT, Ford Mustang GT, Corvette C6, 
 Corvette C6. R, Cadillac CTS, Pontiac GTO, Vauxhall Monaro VXR, Cobalt SS, Lamborghini Murcilago, 
 Lamborghini Gallardo, Lotus Elise, Mazda RX-8, Mazda RX-7, Mercedes-Benz SLR McLaren, Mitsubishi 
 Lancer EVOLUTION VIII, Misubishi Eclipse, Porsche Carrera GT, Porsche 911 Turbo S, Porsche 911 
 GT2, Porsche 911 Carrera S, Porsche Cayman S, Renault Clio V6, Subaru Impreza WRX STi, Lexus IS300, 
 Toyota Supra, and the VW Golf GTI. The special Black Edition of NFSMW has a few extras not listed 
 here.  Previous 1 2 3
  Click to learn more...
  
  Like any racing game, there are cars that are pretty worthless, but I for one am glad that the 
 SUVs are gone. Those were so worthless! The real point here is the diversity. Sure, there aren't 
 500 cars, but you do have knockouts such as the RX-8, five different Porsches, three Audis, the 
 new Mustang, the Dodge Viper, and two Lamborghinis. Once those last five levels are opened up, 
 the racing gets really fast, and the Lamborghinis create a fantastic sense of speed and control.
 
  
  The biggest change to the series, control-wise, is the newly added sense of weight and accompanied 
 physics. The cars all have a heavier, stickier feel. You'll feel the change from previous NFS games 
 when you take turns at high speeds or when you start up your car. The vehicles require more skill 
 to pull out of powerslides, where you'll feel the added weight shift heavier to the side you're 
 sliding in. You'll also feel the weight and dead-stop characteristic when you crash into an unseen 
 object. If you smack into something, you'll need to reverse and the punch it. There is an extra 
 split-second required to reverse, and to re-orient yourself to get back into the race. Not everyone 
 will like the new feel of the cars. I love powersliding, so the extra weight didn't both me, but 
 because there are a bunch of sneakily placed unbreakable objects put in key spots around turns, 
 you'll smack into them, and you'll wish your car accelerated faster.
  
  Level Design
  Luckily, the course and overall city design are much better in NFS Most Wanted than in NFSU2. EA 
 learned a few things from last year's endeavor, which is that open worlds are fine and dandy, but 
 you'll need to fill them if you have them, and Most Wanted is a racing game, not an adventure game. 
 In that light, EA has done two things: It's created a massive cityscape that's interconnected for 
 non-stop action, and it's also built in the ability to instantly quickly jump to any race in the 
 game without having to drive there. It's pure efficiency, and I like it.
  
  Actually, this same quick-jump function was in NFSU2, but it didn't function nearly as well or 
 as clearly as this does. Also, the functionality here isn't an excuse for a wide-open city that's 
 not all that fun to drive around in. It's purposely designed into the fabric of the courses so 
 its functionality feels natural and smart.
  
  The freeway system is much improved. Last year's freeway was a **** to get on and off, and it created 
 difficulties in simply getting from point A to point B. In that game, the GPS system was always 
 on for a reason. In this one, it's rarely on. There are tons of little shortcuts, too, making the 
 exploration in each race a little challenge. The enemies even use them occasionally too.
  
  Pull off Pursuit Breakers and lose the cops lickitysplit.
  Most Wanted is also a long game. It's 
 packed. Each of the 15 racers requires anywhere from seven to 10 races before you race them, and 
 those boss competitions are usually two races. That's easily 15-plus hours just to beat the career 
 mode. And that doesn't include the dozens of cop chases, additional milestones or free-roam races 
 you can pick up at any time. It doesn't include the challenge mode or the online play either.
 
  
  Finally, the cops. The cops are never that smart, but they continually grow in aggressiveness and 
 numbers. When you first start, the cops are a joke. You'll smash them to bits, ditch and generally 
 humiliate them. The cop radio chatter is excellent. The police constantly chatter about your location, 
 behavior, and their plans to catch you. The cop chatter is really well done. When you reach Black 
 List player number 8, the cops grow angrier and more aggressive. The helicopter will appear around 
 that time, although much of your status is based on a heat meter, which is attached to your car, 
 and they add that very necessary component of challenge, annoyance, and heat that makes this game 
 so fun. I wish there were more helicopter-like cop enemies, like motorcycle cops, or more forceful 
 tactics, or even tanks or something heavier and meaner. A greater variety of cop behavior and types 
 would have really brought this game home in a big way. As it is, you can toy with the fuzz for 
 at least half the game before they become half-serious.
  
  Closing Comments
  Need for Speed Most Wanted has, as we like to say, shaped up real nicely. The stylistic presentation 
 and graphic sensibilities are impressive, and they're complemented by excellent engine sound effects 
 and smart cop chatter. The game holds at a solid 30 FPS on all systems, and while the sense of 
 speed isn't as palpable in the first hour or so of play, just wait. Win a few cars, upgrade them, 
 and before you know it, you'll be smoking. The sense of speed never reaches Burnout levels, but 
 it's damn good in everything from a souped-up Volkswagon GTI to a stock RX-8. And while it should 
 be a given, the Lamborghinis, Porsches and other high-end cars really rip. You'll be glad you bought 
 this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jaume08
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 18, 2008 1:47 am PT
Review:  After the disaster of the series with the Undergrounds and the respectively transfer to Black Box, 
 EA returned with a new amazing and incredible Need for Speed worthy of being a part of the series.
 
  EA forget about the dark illegal races and finally add the police chases, just what make the old 
 games, like hot pursuit and Hot pursuit 2, so good for their time.
  And the graphical detail is stunning, probably one of the best effects in a racing game not even 
 improved in Pro street. It's true that some people hate that shinning effect, but other's love 
 it. However, if you want to enjoy this game you need a good video card, at least, the superiors 
 ones from the 7 series of Nvidia.
  About the game, it's probably one of the bests plots in the series, giving you the opportunity 
 to defeat the opponents just to be the most wanted. But that's not all, once you become the number 
 one you can try the challenge series, or just try to annoy the Rockport police department to become 
 the number one in all the aspects.
  Definitely, this is provably the best game in the series, with a great concern in the graphics 
 and a great hours of play, not improved by the new games in the series.
  The only problem, 32 cars seems to be not enough for a current racing game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xuerebx
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 7, 2008 4:47 pm PT
Review:  I had got the game about a year ago, but couldn't play it due to my crap computer. Now I've updated 
 my computer, and well, I can finally review the game!
  
  Playing on every setting detail set to very high, the visual aspect of the game is mindblowing! 
 The streets look awesome, car reflections, the car itself, the world around you, just stunning! 
 Visually stunning! Now graphics aren't a very important factor when it comes to games FOR ME, but 
 well, graphics like these are always welcome!
  
  Now the gameplay, I love it too. I'm using a controller and not by keyboard as I think it's better 
 and more fun. Best thing about this game, the POLICE CAR CHASES. Yup. Bloody Bloomin' Brilliant!
 
  BBB remember that.
  
  I myself don't play car games, but as I said in my Review Index, this game's special.
  
  Try 
 it out, you'll love I promise.
  
  I also have the last NFS Pro Street, but since it doesn't have the "free roam" system, I don't 
 like it all.
  
  So, get this game. Yes, buy it now! Better Buy ****
  BBB, remember that ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stanleyyeo
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 1, 2008 11:50 pm PT
Review:  When you first start Most Wanted, you borrowed Razor's BMW M3. Race & Race until you lose Razor. 
 After that, you need to choose your own car. The first cars are Lexus IS 300, Fiat Punto, Chevy 
 Cobalt and VW Golf. You start with #15. There are Drag races, sprint races and much more. When 
 you beat a rival, you can get bonus markers such as Get Out Of Jail Free, or get unique performance 
 parts, visual parts or body parts. You also can unlock cars. Just complete the Race Events, Milestones 
 and bounty. Sometimes when you are in Free Roam, police will chase you. The bar shows you whether 
 is Backup time, Evade or even worst, BUSTED! When you are caught, you either pay by marker or cash. 
 If you do not have any markers, you get one impound strike. When you get three impound strikes, 
 your car is impounded. You need to pay a fine to release your car. 
  Mia will inform you SMSs if she found out one. you have to tune and customize your car. Better 
 keep more than one car. If all of your cars are impounded, you need to start from the beggining. 
 When you hit Razor, he is going to race with his BMW M3. After you beat Razor, you finished the 
 whole game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: filaria
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 1, 2008 9:38 am PT
Review:  By far the most visuallly stunning car racing game i have ever played, most wanted was worth its 
 weight in gold..... The storyline follows a similar trend as the 2 prequels but has some nice twists 
 n turns coupled with realtime cutscenes made it a lot interesting than the 2 prequels. Most Wanted 
 has a right mix of UG1, UG2 and of course.... cop chases. For people who didnt like UG2's system 
 of roaming around to find races can jump right into the action without having to break a sweat... quite 
 similar to UG2....
  
  Now the game doesnt have any fixed difficulty setting, it goes from normal to dead hard whenever 
 it wishes to which will pinch at later levels when cars as good as the Lambhorghini start gettin 
 beat by Golf GTI's no matter what.... interestingly at such times i found that using a different 
 car eased things a bit or even tweaking ur car's performance aspects on the fly cud turn tables 
 midway.
  
  Now there arn't excessively large no. of customizations u can apply ti ur car... but there are just 
 enough n all r avvailable in one shop... this disposes the need to go to 5 different shops to trick 
 ur ride like in UG2.
  
  One of the biggest reasons why i like this game was there are fewer circuit races, no street x, n 
 those freakin 6x2 lap URL races..... it hurts to repeat a circuit or knockout race if get beat in 
 the last lap. Sprint, tollbooths r my fav... the 'race from point A to B' types.... the racing tracks 
 arn't excessively long nor too short n yes the traffic is as annoying as ever n there is no way 
 u can control their density.... over here when u strike them they sorta purposely spin outta control 
 to once agin hit u.. reminiscent of UG1 where the traffic was 'always out to get u'.... and a perfecy 
 example of this would be the drag race especially the last one against razor.
  
  Now the thing that makes most wanted stand out are the cops.... nothing new but still is the most 
 attractive feature of the game.... cops chases are dead realistic, quite audible n even the AI is 
 pretty good... of course u can exploit their AI at some places like the bus stand but otherwise 
 superb.... An illicit street racing game isn't illicit enough without cops n thats where MW stands 
 out. Its quite fun taking out cop cars using breakable environments or 18 wheelers on the road (needs 
 practice) .... the cop challenges are probably the things that would make u come back n play the 
 game n the game here looses any chance of becoming a drag..... the best feature of MW is NOT THE 
 RACING BUT WHAT U DO IN BETWEEN ALL THE STREET RACING. The entire system of the game was very well 
 designed by EA... the blacklist, the markers, new racing styles, rap sheet, NEW CARS.....
  
  Visually MW is OUTSTSANDING, U would actually want to just stop n stare at the environment, the sun 
 looks exquisitely stunning... the roads now have a very good rugged look to it unlike the always 
 wet look of the 2 prequels... albeit the roads get very reflective when it rains but without losing 
 any ruggedness.... triple layered custom paints on cars (obtained later) make the cars reflect like 
 crazy. BUT a powerful system is a must to njoy the visuals as well as have a smooth gameplay experience...
 
  
  The soundtrack is darn good... my fav being 'we control'... n the music during the cop chases is 
 quite adrenaline pumpin.... the cars sound gr8... Lambhorghini being my fav... not all races can be 
 won by using the default settings of the cars so performance tuning is a must... lengthwise MW is 
 just right... n the ending is the best possible kind of ending a racing game cud have.... The additional 
 challenger series races r quite good enough to make to u play thru all 69 of them.
  
  MW is definitely my pick as one of the best racers of all time... whenever u'd try to get out of 
 it... itlll keep pullin u back.....
  
  I'll give it a 9/10 for the variable difficulty of the game...
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: seansoutar
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 29, 2007 7:53 am PT
Review:  
  
  
  Need For Speed Most Wanted is my opinion one of the best street racing games ever. You win races, 
 gain bounty by messing around with the cops, fully customize your ride and become number one on 
 the blacklist. The graphics won't strain your graphics card to the limit but it isn't drop-dead 
 ugly. The voice acting is good and there are a large number of stock cars which you can choose 
 to purchase or drive in a quick race. For example, Audi, Aston Martin, Wolkswagen and Lamborghini. 
 There are other games that have prettier graphics, more cars ect, but Need for Speed Most Wanted 
 will always stick out in the racing games as a good one. A true classic you must buy. With the 
 combination of the graphics, storyline, voice acting and other options such as multiplayer it is 
 worth every cent. Recomend playing Need for Speed Carbon as the the storyline overlaps into that 
 game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: I_am_not_real
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 25, 2007 7:52 am PT
Review:  Well designed graphics, good optimisation and new features (or I should say - the features I've 
 never seen before in any racing game - but I have to admitt I haven't seen many) make this title 
 a good time killer. 
  
  But nothing more, at least not for me, but I'm not the one to judge, since I'm not really a fan 
 of this type of games. And that remids me one thing I forgot to mention and which made the beggining 
 of the game a road through hell for me - no ability to set the difficulty level (or I was just 
 unable to find this option, even if I searched carefully) . I struggled with the first race for 
 two hours or so, before I could start a career, and then it became even worse.
  
  I think I would regret buying this game if it wasn't my sister who actually wanted it. It seems 
 she is having pretty good time playing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RLI_Lewis9
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 17, 2007 10:18 am PT
Review:  After playing my regular games to death such as BG2, GTA: SA, KOTOR2 and COD2 multiplayer i was 
 getting rather down, no new games were coming out that really sparked any interest, and if they 
 did my computer couldnt handle it (farcry) .
  
  So in the end i thought i would try something new, picked up NFSMW and now im frickin addicted 
 to it.
  
  The game is a couple of years old (?) i think so i can easily run the graphics at a high level, 
 enough to make me go Oooh shiny! and still have high performance (Radeon X800 XT PE) . The graphics 
 really look great too IMO, very richa and detailed enviroments and the cars although few in number, 
 look great with their gloss paint.
  
  The sound however is a very mixed bag, on the one hand you have the really crappy music which consists 
 of metal and rap crap. Thankfully you can disable that rubbish. Then on the other you have the 
 sound of the cars, (my Porsche in particular :D ) which sound frickin awesome, i cant stop myself 
 smiling when i hear it rev up. Though its not the same for all cars, one of the lambourginis (sp?) 
 and the clio V6 for example sound bloody awful, like its powered by an electric hairdryer or something.
 
  
  Then you have the career mode which you will probably spend 95% of your time in, starting at the 
 bottom with a fiat punto or something (which oddly enough sounds like its got a V8) you work your 
 way up to get something decent.
  
  Unfortunately you cannot just complete races to proceed to the next bracket of racers, you have 
 to also increase your bounty or wanted level which can be a real hassle and i would have prefered 
 to just skip this rubbish and simply race... (perhaps there is a trainer out there?) . However running 
 from the cops can sometimes be really fun, especially when you slip through their road block and 
 look behind to see all the pursuers plow into it, as you laugh loudly and slam on the nitrous to 
 get away!
  
  For the majority of the races you will be racing against the AI, about 70-80% are done this way, 
 and its a shame because theyre pretty stupid and generally annoying to have to races against.
 
  
  If you fight your way through that you can play on the time trial tracks which is where i have 
 gotten addicted, some of them are a bit crap but then others are great fun to tear around on. Its 
 just you (no AI) , the car and the road, whack on some great tunes and then listen to the engine 
 roar and have fun.
  
  Sure this game may not be realistic like Gran Turismo (its very arcadish) but it is fun, and thats 
 what counts right?
  
  P. S This game can be quite difficult at times, if you havnt had experience with fast paced intense 
 games you may find it very hard indeed...
  
  However 
::::::

::::::
UserName: foever86
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 2:51 am PT
Review:  I believe Need for Speed: The Most Wanted is like 2 years old since the release date now, but I 
 am sure there are handful of people coming back to read this game's review since the release of 
 NFS: PS.
  
  Well, let's face it. This is an NFS game. You can't be expecting realistic driving simulator. NFS 
 was never meant to be the realistic driving game. Some people might find it too cheesy to introduce 
 lots of not-too-tough-gangster kind of characters and too unrealistic to evade 150 police cars 
 and still survive, but it's fun. The idea is nice: this would be something that everyone might 
 want to try at least once in their lives if you are not going to get hurt by accidents at all, 
 and not going to get arrest for all the vandalisms you caused.
  
  Graphic isn't the best but it's reasonably good, and it's more than acceptable. Some of the character's 
 dialog or acting can make you to burst into laugh, but I would give them some credit for trying 
 at least. Their acting wasn't that great but compared to what I've seen from NFS: PS, it's like 
 the Hollywood acting.
  
  So this holiday, if you are looking to buy yourself a new driving game for PC, and you still haven't 
 played this game, then grab this one instead of NFS Carbon or NFS: PS. I played all three, and 
 boy, this is the only game that can make me to play again just because of the intense police chase. 
 That chase just gets me in so badly, it even makes you feel like you are a real criminal. I would've 
 given this one around 7.5, or maybe 8 out of 10, but just because what I've seen from NFS: PS was 
 so disturbing, I would give this one 8.5 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XxorigxX
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 14, 2007 6:34 am PT
Review:  Wow this game is so awesome and with it thers'e a lot of amazing graphics but.........
  almost, but no a quite thers'e a few bugs but the game is still awesome.
  and i got to say this 
 the best need for speed game. (i played all need for speed games) .
  the control system works great the game run well and the game play is amazing.
  i cant wait for 
 the next game of need for speed (after ProStreet) and i hope it will be good as this game.
  by the way is there going to be another need for speed?
  ____________________
  WORTH PLAYING 
 BUY THIS GAME!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gauravfox
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 27, 2007 11:19 am PT
Review:  Need For Speed: Most Wanted. First of all, this is the best Racing game in the history of street 
 racing EVER..! I gotta say... guys at EA.... u deserve a standing ovation... great job guys..... well 
 done..! N coming to the game... The graphics are fantastic with a real feel of the adrenalin, speed, 
 and of course... the crashes... The game play is better than ever (compared to Carbon) .The music 
 is as always, the best n syncs with the streets... the driving equipments are something that needs 
 some serious talking, i mean the collection provided is very good.... more Muscle cars would have 
 brought in more interest but.... anyways.. the cars are good. The handling curves need about 10 minutes... or 
 less... the fun in this game is when you drive the cars in manual gears. The cop chase is amazing..... when 
 the heat level reaches 3... we've got action alright...! And over all, this game is a must have and 
 is an Instant Addiction.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 483paul
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 21, 2007 9:10 pm PT
Review:  I've played Need for Speed for years. I'm a older gamer so i grew up on THE original Need for Speed. 
 I would play that game for hours with my steering wheel. Good times.. But thats not why i'm here. 
 I'm want to talk about Most Wanted.
  
  You can pick up Most wanted for $10 now. Which in my opinion is way better than a couple Taco Bell 
 dinners. This game is well worth the money!!
  
  Coming from NFS: Underground 2 i was very happy with the changes and improvements that were made. 
 Your car maintenance is all one one shop now which is easily accessed. They do give you a free 
 roam city but all races and objectives can be accessed through menu screens. However i still do 
 find myself just playing around the city doing burnouts and donuts. But this time you've got to 
 watch out. Because NFS is back to its roots with the cops!! Cops have a lot to do with the game 
 this time around. Not only do they chase you but now you need to get them to hate you. The story 
 is you need bad rep to race racers on the black list. In order to do that you need to be the MOST 
 WANTED by cops. You have objectives like. Race at 118mph in a speed trap. Evade cops after a 5 
 minute chase and so on. This part of the game is interesting but my least favorite. I don't like 
 the fact you are forced to get into these situations to progress in the career. Luckily they are 
 fun and done very well. You can hear the officers talk over the radio and describe your car, location, 
 and status of what you are doing. Its very convincing that you are actually in a police chase across 
 town. That part i love. But i don't like you are forced to break the law. But i guess it wouldn't 
 be called most wanted unless you were most wanted..
  
  Luckily thats only part of the game. The other half is racing racers. You need to win x amount 
 of races to race a black list racer. There are 15 black list racers and each one you have a chance 
 of winning their car. From there you can customize it to your liking or simply sell it for cash.
 
  
  Customizing your car is really simple and they pulled it off great! As you win against black list 
 racers you unlock more part upgrades. Performance is pretty simple. you click on the engine and 
 which upgrade and boom you have more acceleration and top speed. It goes the same with all the 
 performance things. Looks are easy to use too. There isn't a lot of depth to what you can do for 
 you cars performance. Luckily they do have some tweaks you can make. Handling, steering, aerodynamics, 
 brakes, No2, and turbo's. Example. For aerodynamics you need a after market spoiler or body kit 
 before it allows you to tweak it. Lower your car to make it stick to the road better but sacrifice 
 some top speed. Raise it to get a better top speed but sacrifice some sticking to the road. This 
 is how all of these tweaks work. Its a very nice plus to the game. Turbos. Have a lower turbo range 
 of power or have the best turbo power come at higher RPM's.
  
  Visually the game looks great. I have had some frame rate issues though. Mostly when i enter tunnels 
 or forests i will drop some frames. However the pc i'm using is in a much need for upgrading. Same 
 thing with online play. I have frame rate issues and lag. I will be racing and then my car will 
 jump ahead and i will be a split second from hitting a wall. Again i believe its my computer and 
 not the game. But something to think about
  
  I do wish the character inside the car moved and wasn't lifeless. In hot persuit the driver would 
 steer and shift. I miss that.. instead we have stuffed dummies for drivers. But its not a big deal 
 or game breaker or anything.
  
  You can replay races too and earn cash from them. The traffic during the races isn't to bad either. 
 I never find myself loosing races because of AI or traffic. The opponents have decent AI. Nothing 
 special but they at least have enough AI so they don't hit into you. This game is solid and worthy 
 to be in the NFS series. You need to pick this game up!! I've been told if you either choose this 
 or carbon. No need to own both. I haven't tried carbon but i do know this was is a lot of fun! 
 There could be more cars though. Believe theres 30 or so.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arsenalrvbest
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 14, 2007 3:24 am PT
Review:  After a long string of games on the PS2, I decided that it was time to convert back to PC games 
 so I started with Most Wanted. I thought it wouldn't be that good because I was a true believer 
 in the PS2 and it would be impossible to play a racing or sports game on the PC. Most Wanted surprised 
 me though. The graphics were good and the driving was fun. Evading the police was the correct difficulty 
 so you didn't get away with it all the time and the missions got harder towards the end, but not 
 impossibly hard. THe selection of cars and upgrades are good and you can really make the cars look 
 classy without too much effort. I played on it for a good amount of time, but it isn't a game you'd 
 play on forever. Need for Speed is a good series so I'll try and get the next couple coming along, 
 but there's so much competition that you sometimes don't know which one to pick. Overall, a quality 
 game, but still needs to keep adding more features to stay at the racing genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skylineman01
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 13, 2007 7:46 am PT
Review:  It is a great game! I love it, I am on Blacklist number 3. I love the downloads for it! I've had it 
 since September 2006. It is just right, I don't get why it's rated T for teen. Oh yeah checkout nfsunlimited. net 
 and nfscars. net they have a lot of downloads for Need For Speed Most Wanted! I don't now where you 
 can get it but it is scarce now! It is hard too. If you get it it is used then, I had it for my 
 game boy and I beat the game in 5 days! I suggest getting it for the PC but you have to get it 
 used now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chewie1125
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 10, 2007 8:12 pm PT
Review:  Need For Speed: Most Wanted is of the best of Racing car games. It provides a large range of different 
 races, and a large map in which you can explore. The major good point is that it has police car 
 races/ pursuits and the presence of great scenes to enchance the story.
  
  Good:
  Quite a large range of cars
  Police chases- Really good as the heat rises
  Great variation 
 in maps- Won't get bored as the game goes on as every time there will be a new track!
  Drag races, elimination, Time attack, etc LARGE range of races compare to other games-
  
  Bad:
 
  Old game already...
  Graphics not too good compared to todays standards. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agordplayer
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 23, 2007 6:38 am PT
Review:  This is a very good game. The graphics is awsome. This game is one of the best that ea has made. 
 The difficulty is hard. I found that it was very hard to beat blacklist boss #9 earl. The races 
 were also to hard. On the xbox it was alot more easy than on the computer. I have spent alot of 
 time playing this game. This game rocks. If you do not like this game than your not a racing fan. 
 I hope that you have liked the review That I have written. Need for speed is the best. The cops 
 are my favorite to crash. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hardheartman
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 22, 2007 4:37 am PT
Review:  When I first got Most Wanted I was amazed. It had great graphics and it was really fun to play. the 
 story is wonderful , the graphics are awesome ; and about the police chase scenes ;it's cool but 
 sametimes very hard.
  You play as a newcomer to the metropolis of Rockport, driving a seriously tricked-out car and ready 
 to take on the locals in some street races. You quickly meet up with the mysterious Mia, a hot, 
 slinky babe eager to help you out -- how convenient! You then run up against the arrogant jerk 
 of the local scene, Razor Callahan. Just when you're about to put him in his place in a race, your 
 car falls victim to his sabotage. You lose the race and your car, too, when he gets your pink slip. 
 Razor then uses your car to rise to the top of the Blacklist, the fifteen most daring and defiant 
 street racers of the city. So a smug jerk cheats you out of your car and wins the prestige that 
 should have been yours. You also need to achieve milestones to take on Blacklist drivers. These 
 are special goals like getting clocked driving above a certain speed at a speed trap. The best 
 milestones involve police chases. The cops get VERY difficult in the last part, with crazy helicopters 
 and police cars that act like a bunch of hungry tigers going after a injured gazelle (and they 
 havnt eaten in a month) .
  To keep you interested in career advancement, the game lets you buy and sell cars and upgrade them 
 with performance and visual mods as you rise up the ranks. You'll find a fair range of cars: from 
 Volkswagen Golf GTI's and Fiat Punto's up to Mercedes, Porsches, and Lamborghinis. play and fun 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doomwarrior235
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 5, 2007 8:37 am PT
Review:  When I first got Most Wanted I was amazed. It had great graphics and it was really fun to play. 
 You start out in the city of Rock Port were you really fast car gets taken away from you by a street 
 gang. You have to race and get these points that you get when you get in a chase with the police. 
 You have to go up this thing called the Black List and race every one of these street racers. As 
 you make it up the Black List, more cars become available for you to buy. The graphics in Most 
 Wanted look really good. Things reflect off you car and the rain makes the road look wet. Some 
 of the races in this game are not that fun and can get a little bit frustrating. If you like racers 
 than this is a game that you should play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: giro786
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 9, 2007 3:22 am PT
Review:  This game is much more better than Carbon ( it's successor ) ; the story is wonderful , the graphics 
 are awesome ; and tell me about the police chase scenes ; isn't it cool ???????
  
  Just drive in the street with 10 or 12 police car behind you . makes you feel like a BAMF , trying 
 to catch you N4S rocks my world ; but i wouldn't recommended for someone who is new to driving 
 in the real world , because sooner or later he will be jailed :) ) ) ) ) ) i am waiting to play Prostreet 
 , but i feel that it won't be that good
  
  time will come and we will see 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1_2_3lion
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 3, 2007 5:51 pm PT
Review:  from the best i have ever seeeeeen before goood graphics nice gameplay goood story and new cars 
 and cops you try it espically online it ROCKS and on the single player also..... it is amazing new 
 chractars new events new cars new coloers new vilanys new ,new, new, new and more .......
  if you do not belive me try the demo and you willl seeee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee i am singing 
 int i hahaha the important is that there is cops with new cars and your misison is to win the black 
 list one by one until the last of em that called razor and he taked your frist and best car from 
 you..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterChief725
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 30, 2007 7:39 pm PT
Review:  Dont bother with Need for Speed Carbon, this is where it is at. I have the black edition of this 
 game, and it has an extra cop level! That is 7 compared to Carbon's 5. The graphics and gameplay 
 are great, the chase sequence is undeniably a quatum leap over underground 2. This game is long, 
 and fun, and for $20 it is excellent. The difficulty level is perfect, i cant beat the last boss 
 actually. The only downside is I wish there were some more cars. But still, this game is great, 
 all it needs is some good american muscle cars, and it would be a 9.5, but for a 2005 racing game 
 i stil think it is top class. I would stil buy a refurbished black edition, and enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: J_akan_ator
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 21, 2007 1:16 pm PT
Review:  The Entire Need For Speed Series Have Had Up's And Down's Need For Speed Most Wanted Was A Rocket 
 Upwards
  
  Story:
  The Story Line Is Based On You Coming To Rockport To Beat The Blacklist #15 On Your Arrival You 
 Meet Mia Townsend Who Challenges You To A Race But You Crash Into Sergeant Cross Who Tell's You 
 Your Ride Is Being Impounded By Pure Luck A Backup Request Comes Up And Cross Responds And You 
 Drive For Another Day,
  Soon You Meet Ronnie Who Challenges You To A Race To The Dock Where Razor Is #15 On The Black List 
 Sadly During The Race
  Razor Cheated By Damaging You Oil Tank And The Car Stalls And Razor Get's Your Ride But The Police 
 Arrive And Cross Takes You In Sadly Your Set Free As You Have No Car Mia Helps You Out To Get Your 
 Ride Back
  
  Graphics: One Word Amazing The Cars Detail Is Staggering And The World Is Destroyable With Falling 
 Giant Doughnuts To Gas Stations Exploding.
  
  Game Play: There's The Good And Bad Parts But All Together The Story Rocks So There's Times You 
 Wanna Smash Your PC/GC/XBOX/PS2 In Half In Anger But You Don't This Game Gets Better And Better 
 The More You Play 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nitronith
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 20, 2007 12:26 am PT
Review:  NFS Most Wanted is the 9th edition of the Nfs series, the most sucessful racing games published 
 by EA games. Its a mixture of hot pursuit and underground but presented in an awesome manner. The 
 game will get you addicted right from the begining. The story is that you are a racer coming to 
 Rockport city hungry for some racing action. After beating the locals you set out to challenge the 
 racers in the Blacklist, the top 15 racers in the city. Meanwhile while browsing through the cityyou 
 meet up with Inspector cross who is fed up with you so much (because you become the talk of the 
 town by winning races) that he wants you to be badly in jail. And so your next race is with #15 
 on the blacklist , Razor. As the race progresses your car stops reponding and comes to a complete 
 stop. Razor sabotaged your car! This time Cross gets you and sends you to jail. Then comes Mia the 
 chick that gets you out of the jail and drops you at the car lot to pick a car. She tells about 
 the present conditions and a shocking revelation. The evil Razor who was 15 on the blacklist is 
 now #1 and that he is using your car!!. Furious now, you set out start all over again beating the 
 blacklist one by one. What all challenges await you? Find out. The gameplay is awesome combined with 
 the story. You will have to win some races and increase your bounty by doing Milestone events, before 
 you can challenge any of the Blacklist Rival. Milestone events put you directly in the middle of 
 the cops to do anything to increase your bounty. You will have cops in the free roam mode also. The 
 cops become more and more agressive as the heat level rises, bringing up high speed cars, heli's 
 ramming you with SUV's, and even putting spikes to burst your tires. AI is fair The graphics is the 
 coolest feature you will notice. The mind blowing graphics include highly detailed cars, spectacular 
 lighting effects including 'bloom effect' which blinds for two seconds when you face the sun. The 
 sound is also super cool especiallly when heard with multi channel speakers. The car sound and the 
 radio chating of the cops is very real like. Learning cuvre is nothing for those have playes the 
 underground series.++If racing is your game then dont miss this game or you will regret it!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oonge
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 5, 2007 10:09 am PT
Review:  Being chased by cops is the best thing that has been done to NFS since, well hard to remember when.
 
  
  The career mode is also really good. But foremost have to give thumbs up for the cop chases. From 
 the very beginning keeps you waiting for agent Cross to pop up somewhere as one of the cops tagging 
 you. Sadly though this doesnt quite happen up untill you top up the blacklist. All the same being 
 chased around, trying to avoid being busted is great, gets the adrenaline going.
  Hard to put a finger on any negatives on such a great game, but they should have sorted out some 
 issues first.
  
  The most annoying thing is on the unique performance upgrades while in career mode. Though one 
 can fit in various junkman (unique performance) upgrades got while climbing up the mostwanted list, 
 on the performance bars it shows pretty well that your car should, very easily outperform the rest 
 of the racers, but in the actual race this isnt so and its still considerably hard to beat the 
 other racers. The game AI seems to make it an unfair competition on the players side.
  Apart from that and the very few videos they threw in, its still a pretty intresting play. Keeps 
 you playing from the bottom of the rankings till you are at the very top.
  A must have for all the fans of NFS out there and a good way to usher in new ones.
  
  As part 
 of a wish list: could the player also be the cop&amp; they should ave left the intensity from 
 NFS: underground2 that was in the crashes and power slides. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: psycho_ford
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 26, 2007 12:52 am PT
Review:  The game is very good.. Very good graphics.. Sound is really good.. The story of the game is really 
 interesting and you don't want a hind end pc to run this game. Even and with a middle pc system 
 you can have nice graphics. His strong point are the chases with the police. They are really intense 
 and the al of the police is really good. The bad: The al of the game is stupid and it becomes more 
 stupid as the game goes on and what i mean with this.. I had a fiat and i won a race where my oppoment 
 had a porche gtr. I don't think that's even possible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slippeddisc
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 24, 2007 2:35 am PT
Review:  Need for Speed: Most Wanted
  
  This instalment of NFS has to be the most impressive. It has made great improvements from the Underground 
 series, including the addition of police and pursuits.
  
  The long anticipated addition to the Need for Speed series is one worth the wait. Most Wanted is 
 all that was promised and expected with even more thrown into the boiling mix that is this masterpiece 
 of driving games. Of course the racing style of the game is still the brilliance it was before, 
 simply made more interesting and never-boring cops.
  
  The career mode is all that of the underground duo made more intriguing with the CG cutscenes. 
 Unlike the comic-book style of the undergrounds, there are actual actors in Most Wanted. The actors 
 are in a green room, from which the never-ending brilliance of computer animation takes over 
 and adds in the scene behind them. You start as a no-name driver trying to make it in the new city 
 of Rockport, throughout which you will engage in many events including circuit, point-to-point 
 sprints, tollbooth races (you try to make it through all the tollbooths in the given time) , drag 
 races, and speedtrap races (the winner is the racer who accumulates the highest speed over the 
 sprint.
  
  And of course I couldnt leave you without mentioning the cops. The entire story is based around 
 illegal street racing much like the undergrounds but includes the thrill of cop chases which the 
 undergrounds lacked wholly. The pursuits take place anytime a cop recognises your souped car, is 
 called to a complaint of reckless driving, or stumbles upon you and your companions curing a race. 
 During the pursuit you can ram cop cars taking them out and raise your wanted level by accumulating 
 bounty. Once you reach a certain bounty the level of the pursuit increases and cops pull out bigger 
 and better guns (better cars) including undercover units, souped cars like your own, SUV Light, 
 SUV Heavy, SUV Rhino, and eventually even helicopters. If you are unable to evade the police, you 
 are arrested and your car impounded. Simply bail yourself out to continue you illegal racing ways.
 
  
  Well thats it. Most Wanted is definitely the best Need for Speed title to date and is a must-buy. 
 You will never get tired of this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperMooseman
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 17, 2007 3:13 am PT
Review:  EA have been churning out Need for Speed games for ages now and some could say the series is now 
 getting dry and crusty, and they need to just hide the license in a cupboard. I say that's rubbish, 
 and Need for Speed Most Wanted is the best in the NFS series so far - and that's saying something.
 
  
  The game has two main modes - career and challenge. Career sees you taking the role of a street 
 racer who is slowly trying to make his way up the blacklist to become the ultimate racer. The number 
 one blacklister is Razor who will do anything to stop you stealing his position and taking his 
 glory. To gain higher places in the list, you will have to complete a series of racing events along 
 the way such as sprints, circuits and so on. You will also need to rack up your bounty, which you 
 earn by smashing up the police cars and various other things. Challenge mode sees you simply doing 
 what it says on the tin - completing challenges to unlock cars.
  
  Police chases are a great excitement and feature in this game. The ability level of the police 
 cars depends on how long you have been avoiding them for. The final stage is where the police boss 
 comes in which involves some hilarious things that he says broadcasted in your car radio ( get 
 the foo! ) . The adrenalin when racing is huge but can be very annoying when you've been going for 
 ages and you get busted.
  
  Graphically the game is amazing and if you have a high-end PC you can really get the full deal 
 from the game (360 visuals) . The city is visually very good and you never get the feeling that 
 you've seen that before in another part of the city. The cars also look as photo-realistic as they 
 can come at the moment which is a very hard thing to pull off.
  
  Overall, Most Wanted is just what the series needed. From it's fast paced street races, to it's 
 tense and action packed police chases, this is one racing game you really should put on your shopping 
 list. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Piraka93
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 15, 2007 8:24 am PT
Review:  This game is really cool. It is awesome for people that love racing games. U can get awesome cars 
 and parts. It is kind of hard though. It will take anybody a long time to beat it. Theres 2 cheats 
 for this game. U can get them from this site. U don't have to rent this game first. Trust me u 
 will love. This game also has cool sounds and graphics. The graphic are even cool when u use nitris. 
 It is just an amazing game. So if u don't have it get it :) It is good for pc, psp, x-box, and 
 ds. It is hard to control on the ds version though. And if u like this game try need for speed 
 carbon, and all the other need for speed games. So pick up your handheld and start playing:) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Legendary_Guard
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 14, 2007 11:56 am PT
Review:  Need for Speed: Most Wanted offers an immersive, interactive, and enjoyable view to the world of 
 street racing from its fast paced races on the streets of Rockport to the insane 30-man car chases 
 requiring nerves of steel and reflexes a Jedi would envy. Not to mention a well constructed plotline 
 involving adventure, duplicity, and of course, revenge. The graphics itself are quite remarkable 
 adding to the overall game experience. In addition to that, EA presented a music compilation worthy 
 of an actual CD performance. It also matched the racing ambiance well presented in the game. Though 
 it lacked a large variety of cars, when I mean variety as it drivability, car customization presented 
 a never ending quest for the perfect car. It may have been too perfect as near the end of the 
 game, most of the cars drive about the same  I once had a maxed-out Volkswagen Golf that drove 
 about the same as my McLaren :S. In the end, this game is worthy to be added into your game library 
 and provides an enjoyable gaming experience for hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: taraboi1
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 5, 2007 12:55 pm PT
Review:  This one is the best Need for Speed yet ( I think it even beats Carbon which was extremely easy 
 and boring) . In fact all of the NFS franchise is great but this one is the best because it has 
 great graphics, a great soundtrakc, good gamesply, hard to beat cops, interesting race modes and 
 medium opposition. But still like any game it has it's glitches: on the PC the online modes tend 
 to get very laggy and on some PCs it even crashes a few times even if that particular computer 
 has a very good video card. As for the consoles I don't know anything because I didn't play any 
 console version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slow_death
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 25, 2007 7:24 am PT
Review:  Nfs : MW is a great street oriented car racing game.
  The game has re-introduced police car chases after a long time.
  The game still features the 
 option of customizing your car to your taste.
  But quite a lot of the customization option that were there in Nfs : underground 2 are missing. 
 The graphics are stunning but only if you have a newer version of Nvidia.
  Its a little irritating as the game ends so vaguely. You escape the police by jumping over the 
 ' Old Bridge ' . But after the cutscene gets over you are back in Rockport as though nothing had 
 happened. This was what screws the game.
  The re playability of the game is not great as no matter what happens you end up doing the same 
 thing again and agian.
  BUT due to the graphics, sound, variety of cars, video etc. the game still is one of the best in 
 its genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trebor22031982
Rating: 9
Date: May 14, 2007 2:17 am PT
Review:  Going from Underground 2 to Most Wanted is not very difficult, but the races can be.
  With the introduction of a new city to conquer, and cops to dodge, Most Wanted stands to be a revolutionary 
 piece of NFS technology. Introducing cops which get tougher as you avoid them makes staying out 
 of trouble even trickier than in previous titles.
  Defeating the Blacklist racers takes up your time, and makes the game exciting and interesting. 
 This way, you know who you are driving against, rather than just randomly generated racers.
  As said above, dodging the cops gets harder as you avoid them, and you can keep track of this with 
 the rap sheet , to see how you are doing and how much the cops want to bring you down.
  The cut scenes are now more like FMV's again, and cover the game much more than NFS Underground 
 2 did.
  Most Wanted ups the difficulty, but is still fun, and is never dull to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: verbatim000
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 13, 2007 3:28 am PT
Review:  The police chases are tough to get rid of but beating the black list members is a easy task rather 
 than completing the bounties and challenges. But it is fun. I completed the whole game in 1 month 
 very addictive. It is very time consuming to get the bounty levels. Rest everything is good good 
 good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good 
 good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good 
 good ood good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good good 
 rocks ea rules it is much better than the nfs carbon 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sharier
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 6, 2007 2:58 am PT
Review:  Racing games like Need For Speed Most Wanted can affect your physical condition temporarily and 
 quite noticeably. No I am not talking about a sore finger or aching eyes due to excessive use of 
 mouse buttons or rapid eye movement -- I am talking about the physical outburst of excitement. Most 
 Wanted, at times, literally made me way too excited in the process of escaping cops.
  The NFS series in the past had used cop chases; but the Most Wanted installment has made it quite 
 challenging. The cop chases are not only mandatory to earn higher reputation/bounty points, but 
 its one of the basic gaming elements to move to higher level of races.
  The cop chase elements themselves were designed cleverly. As chases prolong, the heat level rises 
 and the cops become increasingly aggressive. At one point literally, it becomes an issue of your 
 nerve -- because a chase can prolong for 25 minutes (I embarked on such un-escapable situations 
 several times) . God I hate that situation, and I love it. Well I mean off course when you are busted, 
 its not a big deal.
  Well NFSMW has successfully implemented this make believe chases really lively. But this is just 
 one key elements of the game. The main game is winning various types of underground races and move 
 up the underground racers ladder. The races themselves are good enough to make this game a hit 
 with the gamers. But its the cop chase elements that made the game so extra-ordinary.
  The NFS has a dedicated fan base because of its beautiful graphical presentation from the first 
 installment of the game. So you should expect a detailed city map where you roam around freely, 
 car shops where you get wide range of modifiable cars (you will have to unlock the advanced cars 
 by winning races and earning higher bounty points) , lively music and sound effects. This is the 
 basic expectation from NFS.
  With the cop chases, NFSMW adds some street-side elements to stop or digress the cops from chasing 
 you, and hiding spots to escape the cops. However these may be inadequate when hordes of cops are 
 chasing you and your heat level has gone up to level 4.
  Overall, this game give you maximum excitement in the NFS series and definitely a must experience 
 for all gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazy_teo
Rating: 5
Date: May 1, 2007 1:33 am PT
Review:  Yes, Need for Speed Most Wanted is yet another illegal street racing game. Yes, it's filled with 
 embarrassing attempts to be hip and trendy. But don't let that steer you away. You'd miss exciting 
 races, thrilling chases, and a big, beautiful world to explore.
  
  You play as a newcomer to the metropolis of Rockport, driving a seriously tricked-out car and ready 
 to take on the locals in some street races. You quickly meet up with the mysterious Mia, a hot, 
 slinky babe eager to help you out -- how convenient! You then run up against the arrogant jerk 
 of the local scene, Razor Callahan. Just when you're about to put him in his place in a race, your 
 car falls victim to his sabotage. You lose the race and your car, too, when he gets your pink slip. 
 Razor then uses your car to rise to the top of the Blacklist, the fifteen most daring and defiant 
 street racers of the city.
  
  So a smug jerk cheats you out of your car and wins the prestige that should have been yours. Time 
 to get even. There's only one problem: parts of the story are told with silly full-motion video 
 composited into computer graphics. We can only assume this was done to feature the eye candy of 
 model Josie Maran as Mia. Along with her, you're treated to a parade of wannabe hipsters mugging 
 for the camera and uttering one silly line after another. Based on the FMV storytelling, this game 
 should have been rated C for cheesy. Thankfully, Most Wanted largely ditches these sequences and 
 switches to simple text and audio messages once the career mode really gets underway.
  
  When your career does get underway, don't be in too much of a hurry to get down to business. One 
 of the best parts of Most Wanted is the option for free-form gameplay. Imagine something a little 
 bit like Grand Theft Auto without the hookers and handguns. You can roar around town to see the 
 sights, head to an auto dealer, look for shortcuts you can use in upcoming races, dodge traffic, 
 evade cops, or just enjoy driving outrageously fast.
  
  Look who befriends you. Cool cars really work!
  
  As you roam around -- if you can call blasting 
 through a neighborhood at 175mph roaming -- you see that the real star of Most Wanted is the city 
 itself. The developers did a beautiful job crafting an extensive and believable greater metropolitan 
 area. You'll rocket through tollbooths out onto the turnpike, passing woods awash with autumn colors, 
 and then exit onto a busy four-lane highway, barely dodging a semi laden with huge logs. From there, 
 you might zip through the suburbs, pass a commercial area on the way to the towering skyscrapers 
 that mark the busy city center, and then head down to an ocean-side boardwalk.
  
  What's doubly impressive is that all these areas flow together smoothly and realistically, reminding 
 you of real-world places you might have traveled through. The size and detail needed for this illusion 
 come at a cost, though: the game often chugs as it is loading new data. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: f_an
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 26, 2007 5:34 pm PT
Review:  I remember playing Need for Speed 2: SE and having some good old arcade driving action when it 
 came out. I also hopped on NFS 3 which had the cops racing after you to pull you down.
  
  And I haven't played a NFS game since then until I played Most Wanted. Ironically, it takes the 
 idea of NFS 3: Hot Pursuit the last NFS game I played and I must say it has come a long way since 
 then.
  
  The game has a lot more in depth than NFS 3 and it works really well. It's not a simulation but 
 it's not a complete arcade like Mario Kart. It fits this type of game perfectly and different cars 
 drive differently. They all have good engine sounds, different styles of handling, different weight, 
 and the start of the race with revving the engine to get a perfect launch. All of this works really 
 well in Most Wanted.
  
  You can also tweak the performance of your car. Such as ride height etc, however I found that a 
 lot of the tweaks make some cars unbearable to drive. I found this odd because in other racing 
 games like Colin Mcrae's Rally 2005 tweaking the car is essential. You can also upgrade your car 
 with looks, parts and performance upgrades (such as engines) . This is just one of the many other 
 things that add more depth to the game. Then, like the name of the game hints; there's the police. 
 I find while racing and running into the police half way through a race is quite fun. It adds something 
 a bit extra to the game. However, in the career mode you will also have to achieve a certain amount 
 of bounty, achievements, and races. The races are good; there are several types and you can choose 
 which ones you can do. I mostly enjoyed tollbooths and sprint.
  
  Then you have the bounty. You're forced to get the police on you and while doing so you will receive 
 bounty for being in a chase. The longer the chase, the more damaging the chase and the more you 
 get the cops ticked off, will get you more bounty and achievements. This is pretty good in the 
 beginning of the game but later on this actually gets tedious. It's my main beef with the career 
 mode; with the last 5 blacklist guys, bounty just becomes a chore. Getting rid of the cops can 
 sometimes take way too long if you get unlucky although getting busted is normally not an issue.
 
  
  The graphics look great in NFS: Most Wanted and there are a lot of visual effects (the over-bright 
 bloom can sometimes get annoying but it's semi-realistic) and the game has its own visual style. 
 Overall, I like this game. It's just got a really good feel to it, it's an arcade racer but it's 
 still got some depth to it. The maps are one of the key things that make this game so great because 
 they're really well done. This is probably the best that has been in the NFS series for a long 
 time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PaladinGerry
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 21, 2007 3:28 am PT
Review:  I don't enjoy playing racing games before this. The last racing game I played was Motoracer, and 
 it was quite nice since I like bikes. Racing cars is another thing, it's just not quite that fun 
 for me. Until I played this game. The first thing that attracted me to NFSWM is the soundtrack. 
 It grows on you, and makes racing that much more enjoyable. Car customization allows me to create 
 an almost endless variation of car designs and specs/performance. The racing itselt is also great 
 since the track is not monotonous. Police chases are thrilling especially when your heat level 
 is high, its a real challenge to evade police pursuits. One negative factor about the game is the 
 fact that you don't care about the traffic, where you bump into innocent civilian drivers. (THAT'S 
 JUST NOT RIGHT YOU KNOW. LOL) That's why I really appreciate having Mia reminds us everytime we 
 start the game to remember; TO DO ALL YOUR RACING IN THE GAME. IN THE STREETS, DRIVE SAFELY AND 
 RESPONSIVELY. AND ALWAYS WEAR YOUR SEAT BELTS . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: steelsoldier666
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 5, 2007 6:25 am PT
Review:  Well the need for speed games never stop impressing me, it has a lot of challenge of this game and 
 the new system of running away from cops and destroying their cars is simply entertaining althought 
 it may pressure the player, sometimes i get in some situations were i cant really get out, even if 
 i got a good car, i dont like the scenes that appear sometimes i wish we could just skip them it 
 doesnt entertain me a little bit, but the rest is just pretty awesome, but theres a bug in the third 
 blacklist we face, the last map there is a problem, its dam curve and then the wall blocks me from 
 going and its a straight wall which makes me wonder... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: avp2167
Rating: 5.9
Date: Apr 3, 2007 11:43 am PT
Review:  Now where to start.
  
  I was a bit disappointed... no wait... VERY disappointed with the customization. There are only 5 
 body kits, you cant customize your bumpers, skids separetely but they are all packed up in one 
 kit. only 5 of them mind you which really upset me. AND THEY REMOVED THE COOL STUFF from underground 
 2! No more spinners, stereo systems, doors that open upwards, multiple layers of vinyls, nitro 
 smoke, and etc. Why?! Most wanted's customization is soo much blander than underground. Where are 
 the SUVS!? I enjoyed that part of underground 2 also! Most wanted may have cool new cars but the 
 customization is very bland. I miss my spinners and cool multi layer vinyls and doors that open 
 upwards! .
  
  Now some good things.
  
  There are awesome cop chases. It like a cop movie! They speak on their radio and there is that 
 adrenaline music pumping through the speakers. The police cars also break off nicely. Very exciting 
 chases.
  
  Second half good thing (not that much of a good thign really) ITS DAY TIME NOW! yay....... um..... k 
 3rd good thing... THEY HAVE DODGE VIPER!! lol.
  
  Anyway, really, stick with udnerground 2. More customizaiton options and funner expecally with 
 the drift, picture opertunities and many more.
  
  Dont get me wrong, this is a cool game and all, but personally i dont like it that much.... Really 
 disappointed me.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hell_Dude
Rating: 5.2
Date: Jul 19, 2007 2:08 pm PT
Review:  This is the who know game of the NFS series. And as the two last ones, this game is all about street 
 racing. Pimped out cars , nice girls and a lot of speed. But it is seen to many times. There is 
 nothing new in this game. The cops are have bean taken from the old NFS's. Even the tuning what 
 was the point of the last game , have bean shrinked down. Nothing but body kits, engine parts and 
 some paint. The race modes are the good old ones. Except drift. I don't know why the hell they 
 pulled it out , but ok , it isn't only race mode in the game. If you are the one only left that 
 haven't played the NFS' before then these are the race mods: Circuit , drag , some time trial , 
 speed thing (have to get the maximum speed at few spots) . These aren't much fun but if you need 
 the money , then go ahead. Driving cars is easy, you even don't need any practice , just keep your 
 finger on the gas button. But don't try to play this game with a racing wheel, it's imposable. 
 But you can use the pedals if you want. The cars are cool and fun. I don't know why the hell would 
 you want to get a body kit for a Lamborghini , but yeah , whatever. The NEW thing about the game 
 is cops. Yeah know you can run from cops who drive as **** . In the first heat (how much the police 
 hates you) levels you have to wait the damn cops. Because they are dumb as chimps. Later they have 
 helicopters and jeeps that will hit you. There are some objectives. Like do a $2.000.000 damage 
 to property or get 9.999.999 bounty, dodge 89 roadblocks or crap like that. Than there are bosses. 
 15 of them and before you challenge them you have to complete 2 races , 89 bounty challenges and 
 get 9812.000.999 bounty. You are doing this because some dude Rasor messed up your ride and you 
 lost in a race and he got your BMW. Now you hate him and want to kick his ass and get your car 
 back. Thats it... this game is crap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Decoy23
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 28, 2007 12:07 pm PT
Review:  Need Foor Speed: Most Wanted is my favourite race game. Very good story about you and your BMW 
 M3 GTR and Razor... In begining of game you race Razor (Pink Slip) and in that race engine of your 
 car blew and you lose your BMW. Then you start your career in Rockport City... There is Blacklist 
 of 15 drivers... You must beat them all... 1st on Blacklist is Razor with your car... There is 
 Cross in Rockport City. He is the most skilled cop in that city... He drive Corvette C6.
  This game is not bad and not easy...
  
  ENJOY !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MartWii
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 25, 2007 5:45 am PT
Review:  I found the Black Edition of this for only 9.99 so I thought why not. As I started playing it, 
 I couldn't stop. Even if you find this game for 49.99 its definately worth it. It has an insanely 
 long career, unlike Carbon. It has hours of extras like Challenge series events and more. And it 
 had a way higher difficulty than any game in the NFS series. Definately buy it. The graphics are 
 good even at low settings and the game lasts you for ever. (Trust me, you won't put it down once 
 you start) If you like NFS or just like racing games but haven't tried NFS, then this is your best 
 way to get into and never leave the most evolving series of racing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alfe
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 23, 2007 5:08 am PT
Review:  Being the notorious racers seem so difficult but here in Most Wanted you can be the top of all 
 most wanted racers in rockport.. Beating the black list, escaping police pursuits, and driving 
 the coolest cars.... The graphics and the gameplay is so wonderful..
  The Games starts when you lose to a racer named Razor who will be the one to use your BMW M3 GTR 
 and became the most wanted..
  You must beat the top 15 to the top 1 blacklist in order to get back your BMW and became the most 
 wanted..
  The game also include the circuits, drag race, sprints but there are no drifting..
  In this game 
 you must also escape police pursuits, dodge roadblock and spike strips, increase car heat and many 
 others..
  Also better try the NFS Most Wanted Black Edition.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: opuliski2
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 21, 2007 2:48 pm PT
Review:  Need for speed series have been a long time my personal favourite car game serie and it goed suberb 
 when the need for speed undreground 2 came to shops. The game gots it all... tuning makeing ur 
 car faster and more better looking and then there are lot of different race types i exspecialy 
 love drifting . There are lot of more races like speedo race where its all about that how much 
 nitro you have and how fast is your vechile ;) . The newest thing in underground 2 was that it got 
 this free ride property and now in most wanted its even more better! The big and the COOLEST thing 
 in game is that the cops are chaseing your car all the time. than more faster car you got than 
 more cops there are after you! So if we say you got this BMW the best car of the game (guess) :P 
 then there are lots of special cops on you like FBI and all that stuff. The thread of the game 
 is that you have to win races and get up at the #1 place in so called blacklist and i think its 
 a working hook :D. You have to race street racings and collect points like makeing lot of costes 
 to the cops and when your done with it and reached the limit you can ride against the boss theyre 
 placed somewhere in the blacklist. More higher you get than better you are simple as that :D.
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  I would give 10 points to the graphics for the game but there is couple of bugs in it so i'll give 
 9. Gameplay is amazing great everything is working and theres that sort of feeling in the game 
 :) . Sounds are GREAT oh man i love the sounds of lamboghini . Thank you guys for makeing such 
 a good game! Only one minus i can give for this game and its for that, that the game is too easy 
 : ( . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sCaReCr0W
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 23, 2007 8:30 pm PT
Review:  A snobby little punk who calls himself Razor is your main rival on the mean streets of Rockport. 
 Mia, the tiny-shorts and even-tinier-shirt chick, has decided to help you out by providing a safe-house 
 (score!) . And Sergeant Cross, the stylish and car-scratching police officer is attempting to tear 
 street racing apart from the inside out. So is, at least, the backdrop for what should go down 
 in gaming history as some of the most hilariously bad live action cut scenes ever to grace a videogame. 
 So bad, in fact, that this game deserves acknowledgment for them, and they need to be witnessed 
 firsthand. Underneath the glamour, luckily, is a game that is worth playing anyhow.
  
  Need for Speed: Most Wanted is a return to the classic arcade racing of previous entries into the 
 Need for Speed series. There are influences still apparent from Underground, but the cop chases 
 send waves of reinvigoration, and day-driving is purely more pleasing. Combine that with the campy 
 acting, stylist racing environments, and convincing cop chatter and there are very few flaws left 
 to entangle this homecoming.
  
  Most arcade racers, including NFS, have been lagging behind the brilliant Burnout series in recent 
 years. Most simply could not keep up with the new found sense of speed, the exquisite destruction, 
 and the addictive gameplay modes. The spotlight had simply shifted with Burnouts conviction to 
 be more than a one-trick-pony, as it continually astounded around every corner. Burnout still has 
 its foot on the gas, but Most Wanteds cop chases gives NFS the boost its been dying for. Just 
 like you cant find the sensation of obliterating your opponent in Burnouts Road Rage mode anywhere 
 else, the blistering movie-inspired law-enforcement chases delivered by Most Wanted are in a league 
 of their own
  
  Appropriately for one of the first true next-generation racing games, the visuals provide a shimmering 
 gloss of future graphical effects. More importantly, however, is the success at creating a near-perfect 
 atmosphere for the type of racing simulated. And this task has been accomplished in every way: 
 stretching highways, tight tunnels, shadowy underpasses, dirty alleyways, and a number of destructible 
 locations to thwart pursuing 5-0s. Nothing quite compares to blowing out the supports for the local 
 donut shop and witnessing the massive pink-sprinkled holey sphere crash down on unsuspecting coppers. 
 Which is pretty ironic, too, if youre into the whole stereotyping thing.
  
  Its excellent to see the world design has not been put on the backburner, but its also satisfying 
 to see the visuals and effects are great in their own right. The world itself exudes a style that 
 fits perfectly not only street racing, but the atmosphere of Rockport as well. A warm glow with 
 subtle blurriness makes it seem a little bit dreamlike, and be honest, who hasnt wanted to outrun 
 the cops in a high-stakes, high risk thrill ride right out of Gone in 60 Seconds? The wicked crazy 
 physics only confirms this romp into illusionary status as you watch patrol cruisers fly thirty 
 feet into the air after pummeling through a road block. All the while, the framerate stays steady 
 enough.
  
  The soundtrack to the craziness isnt quite fitting, unfortunately. You get equipped with the run-of-the-mill 
 EA Trax, complete with a whoppin 26 songs. The style of music is always hit-or-miss, but these 
 artists seem particularly stale. Deja-vu will set in quickly. Needless to say, the option to switch 
 off the mad beats is a welcome one. The necessary car revving and tire squealing is about as 
 good as youd expect, and cop car sirens are plenty prevalent, in an ear-hurting kind of way. All 
 actual in-game voice work is provided only for the police officers, as you hear them chattering 
 over the air-waves. The array of wacky characters, like Razor Callahan and Mia Townsend (Josie 
 Maran) , is all presented through live acting, after all. The cop chatter is not only damn cool, 
 but surprisingly convincing, and provided through an especially novel approach. Many of the lines 
 will refer back to previously used dialogue from earlier in the current chase, upping the convincing 
 nature of the chatter to a new level.
  
  This believability carries over in the behavior of your persistent pursuers, as well. As you hear 
 them spouting off code b and maneuver delta the chase will continue to rise in intensity. Standard 
 patrol cars will attempt to swerve and knock your car into any and all dangerous obstacles, but 
 are also easily stopped. As things advance, better and faster patrol cars will be unleashed, and 
 their general tactics will evolve with the situation and location. SUVs will try to ram you, Corvettes 
 are simply hard to shake, and spike strips and helicopters are about as treacherous as they sound. 
 These chases are the best Most Wanted has to offer as a package, and as soon as youve escaped 
 and cooled-down at your hideout youll be itching to get back on the run.
  
  Ironically, the striving for variety is a downfall in this case. In between the intense pursuits 
 and the totally magnificent cut-scenes, everything else seems watered-down and unexciting. The 
 toll-booth time trials, circuit races, speed trap mode, and drag races needed to progress through 
 the single player feel like chores, and a chase is your reward for holding out against your waning 
 patience. Its not so much that these races are bad, but rather that they cant match the more 
 focused and exhilarating aspects of Most Wanted. Unfortunately this is prevalent through every 
 game mode, whether youre taking on the Black List, doing quick matches, or fighting your way through 
 the challenges. Most Wanted is limited to shine out only at certain intervals, after youve seemingly 
 wasted your time with numerous mundane errands.
  
  Because of all the filler (standard races) , it takes a significant time investment to complete 
 the single player -- longer than youd expect and longer than is necessary. The ride is full of memorable 
 moments, namely nearly every time you get the cops on your tail. The purchasable automobiles obviously 
 improve as your cash flow grows, but the real-deal vehicles come from taking out Blacklist racers 
 and acquiring their pimpin rides, which is done through the career mode. The mode would have been 
 drastically better if it had more emphasis on law enforcement, and if it had included more emotionally 
 charged cut scenes. Even the great graphics and world design cant save most racing in Most Wanted 
 from its lackluster outcome.
  
  The redeeming factor is clearly the high-speed pursuits, and Most Wanted is a game worth playing 
 just for those alone. Razor Callahan, Sergeant Cross, and total hotness Mia Townsend make this 
 ride all the more enjoyable with their laughably bad (read: awesome) acting, as well. Its only 
 regrettable to see these two aspects, wrapped up in an impressive presentation, get mucked-up by 
 its own striving for more. In the words of Razor: Im gonna steal your car, and then your girl, 
 get ready for THAT! Oh, were ready. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: indzman
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 13, 2007 4:39 am PT
Review:  Need for speed Most Wanted is the super best racing game in the whole NFS series . The graphics 
 / visuals , characters , cars , environment ,soundtracks are top notch .The video cutscenes are 
 extremely sophisticated and mindblowing too. You get variety of races like drag , sprint , etc . 
 You've to beat the final blacklist boss after defeating other blacklist member's 'mini bosses' 
 . You get exciting cop chases in the game. And the cars unlocked as you progress in the game are 
 awesome. NFS MW is a very stylish racing game for all ages. Plus you get multiplayer feature also 
 in the game to play online with your freinds. Try to buy NFS MW Black Edition for bonus DVD , new 
 cars and other features . Its a great game to be enjoyed . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sexyskyline08
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 10, 2007 1:22 pm PT
Review:  This game is soooo awesome. I don't like the daytime in which it takes place but it makes the graphics 
 look better. The only thing wrong with this game is the choice in cars. My favorite car of all 
 times since I was eleven is the Nissan Skyline. I was disappointed that it wasn't in the game but 
 I soon got over it because of all the other fast cars. This game kept me attached to my computer 
 for a long time. And I really do mean a long time! The day I bought the game (which was about a 
 week after it came out) I played it until I finished and I'm not joking. I literally kept playing 
 until I won it (of course I stopped to eat and go to the bathroom but that was it) . The newest 
 Need for Speed game is not near as well put together as this one is. It has an awesome soundtrack, 
 graphics, and interesting plot. Even though it was an easy game I still enjoyed beating everyone 
 else!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Turbopowered007
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 10, 2007 9:38 am PT
Review:  Although NFS most Wanted has its downfalls, it still proves to be an entertaining game
  
  Need For Speed Most Wanted turned out to be quite an interesting game. The cops are back, and better 
 than ever, the sound is mind blowing and the graphics are excellent. Also there's now daylight 
 racing which makes a delightful change from the night racing. It also come with a storyline , which 
 keeps the user playing for hours.
  
  The graphics of the game are excellent, roads have a more realistic look and the landscape has 
 much more detail. EA has made sure that the cars has allot of detail, and the there are plenty 
 cars to choose from including Lamborghini's , Porsche's and more. The body kits makes customising 
 the car a snap.
  
  all in all its a great game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 4nationfury
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 20, 2007 10:30 am PT
Review:  I got Need For Speed Black Edition as a present. I can tell you that I was greatly impressed when 
 I found out about this game and it proved superior to my previous racing games.
  
  Most Wanted delivers the whole package: great racing, great action, great graphics, and it is both 
 fun and exhilerating. What I especially liked about this game is all the work put into it. The 
 city was thoroughly built and captured a street' racers dream city. I loved the pursuit breakers 
 and the speed breaker which comes in handy more than you would think. I like all the different 
 heat levels from Crown Victorias, to GTo's, to corvettes, rhinos, and choppers. The game is a great 
 value as you get a long lasting Career mode, plenty of challenges, Lan racing, quick racing, and 
 online racing. Plus with the Black Edition you get a bonus disc and bonus challenges, vinyls, and 
 cars.
  
  If you want to experience a satisfying racing game that gives you the entire experience then Most 
 Wanted is for you. You can take down the Blacklisters, pink slip rides, get the cash, experience 
 tense police chases, sit back and watch fun game movies, and become the most Notorious driver in 
 Rockport and Most Wanted. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dom84ts
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 19, 2007 6:16 am PT
Review:  When i heard about the exit of this game i was enthusiastic but while playing maybe i low down 
 my enthusiasm!!
  
  Game play: same to NFS Underground. Great the big chases with the police!
  Very nice the story! 
 It grows on you!
  Audio: Also nice good sountrack
  Graphics: Wow great. The best thing is to see all real cars that you can buy and modify!! Golf 
 - Porche - Lamborghini - Ford Mustang!!! Very good details!
  
  Negative things: How can police patrol chase a Lamborghini Mursielago or Gallardo while using nos?? 
 No damage possibility!! : (
  
  After i finished this game i hoped that the next will be better.... but... see next review ---&gt;&gt; 
 NFS Carbon 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alex_ionut2003
Rating: 9.9
Date: Feb 17, 2007 3:15 pm PT
Review:  It's one the best racing game from the Need For Speed series.. I love it. and the soundtracks, 
 are the greatest tracks that i ever heard. I have buyied it, because EA did a great job, and the 
 graphics with my high-end video card rocks. And the gameplay is very realistic with realistic cars 
 and crashes and great girls :) . I recommend it to all the Gaming Maniacs of the world. I've finished 
 the game in about 24 hours and i've enjoyed the storyline very much. I don't have anymore words 
 to say about it. Only the name of the game : Need for Speed Most Wanted says all about it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firefawn
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 16, 2007 7:17 pm PT
Review:  i love this game man... i played this 7hours straight wen i bought this long time ago... now it takes 
 me 2 minutes and i got over 1million bounty and i took a pic of it too haha ofcourse my computer 
 is horrible and i used bad graphics but it was fun and i saw enough to know it was good... If u 
 like racing games that are VERY unrealistic this is for you. My neighbour hates it coz gameplay 
 is very NOT realistic and he likes Simulation games more, but thats just him! I have taken so many 
 videos of this game it takes like 3 GB of my hard drive just videos that about the size of the 
 game... i have a few i might post them onto gamespot a later day feel free to look at em they pretty 
 sweet... i got one chase where i flipped the car from hitting a roadblock... some of them i edited 
 and left out the part where iwas BUSTED lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: furionpride
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 16, 2007 7:01 am PT
Review:  I was going to buy this game for my 360, but I saw the price tag and went with the $20 pc virsion. 
 The game's graphics are excellent! I boosted the settings as high as they could go and I swear... my 
 head was spinning!
  
  But yeah, the sound is as good as it gets and is very impressive. During the cop chases, radio 
 chatter is constant and it gives you clues to what they're gonna do next. What's realy suprising 
 is a detailed story. Most racing games don't even bother, but this game actualy has real actors 
 in front of the camera.
  
  Sometimes it feels like a racing RPG, and the character you're building is your car. Over time 
 it'll be both easyer and harder to controll. But being able to own as many cars as you want is 
 nice.
  
  I started out playing the game with the keyboard, but I quickly realized that you can plug the 
 Xbox 360 controller into the USB port, and it works fine.
  
  If you have a high-end pc, and a wheel or controller of some kind, get it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kratos51
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 9, 2007 9:07 am PT
Review:  I think the music of this game is one of the best ever. Some of the best Nine Thou- Styles of Beyond, Tao 
 of The Machine-Roots &amp; Bt and the best of all is Do Ya Thang-T. I., Young Dro &amp; C-Rod. Of course 
 the gameplay is good too. But it ends too fast and you can't enjoy it. On my my opinion tne best 
 car is the Lamborghini Galliardo, I had made it one of the best. When my friends were playing the 
 Underground 2 I was saying that this kind of game were not for me, but when I played the Most Wanted 
 I changed my mind about this kind of games and sure I finished tne Undergound 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stormydog1
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 8, 2007 8:56 pm PT
Review:  This game is a definite play for all racing enthusiasts. This entry into the need for speed genre 
 mostly focus's on police chases, which are all very adrenaline- pumping (if you have heart problems 
 i wouldnt play this game) . The last level in the game has an awesome police chase, almost worth 
 playing the 40 hours to beat it. I wont lie, this game is not easy. I have beaten other racing 
 games like project Gotham racing, and this game is about as hard as that. The cops get VERY difficult 
 in the last part, with crazy helicopters and police cars that act like a bunch of hungry tigers 
 going after a injured gazelle (and they havnt eaten in a month) . I feel very satisfied after escaping 
 a police chase when theirs like a hundred cops after me.
  
  The customization is pretty extensive, with mainly a level system for upgrading the performance 
 of the cars. This is good, since I know very little about how cars work. (it would have been nice 
 if they kept it in need for speed: carbon.) Overall, this game is a must play if you have PC or 
 maybe on a console. THis is one of the best (or the best) racing games released. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: astroboysurya
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 20, 2007 5:26 am PT
Review:  I bet it was the fantastic racing game released by ea in the year.
  great, the first game that worked greatly in its minimum configuration. nice choice of telling 
 a story along a racing game. makes the player to get intrest to go to the next stage. because every 
 stage unlocks new items. and the truly amazing graphics is the plus point of that game. and the 
 pursuit tha another positive point of that game. it can satisfy all the needs of a racing player 
 like me. because is gives us option to completely edit the appearance of our car and improve the 
 performance. I was actually a owner of a basic car. which was now the best of all the opponents. 
 actually i started to get extra interest in that game because of its way of moving.. to the next 
 stage. n2o the other plus point. easy to drive all the cars no skidding in the curves not like 
 other racing games. every racers must play this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fatboyvinnie
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 7, 2007 7:28 am PT
Review:  NFS: Most Wanted takes the customisation and racing elements from NFS: Underground, mixes it with 
 police chases from the old NFS games, brings it back up to the daylight and adds some really crazy 
 cutscenes to the mix
  
  Story: Your a new racer to the streets trying to make a name for yourself in the city of Rockport 
 by beating people on the blacklist (Racers on the blacklist tend to be far superior to regular 
 racers and often drive fairly nice cars) .
  The first person you meet on the blacklist is a guy named Razor Callahan, who, when your racing 
 against him, sabotages your ride and takes it away from you. Aftderwards, since you have no wheels, 
 the police come and arrest you only to release you a short while later since you lost your car. 
 A girl named Mia Townsend then appears and helps you obtain some new wheels, beat all the racers 
 on the blacklist and get back at Razor who has used your car to get to the top of the list.
  
  Game play: There are a wide variety of race modes to this game which include: Sprint- A 1 mile 
 track thats usually fairly large.
  Circuit- Normal 2-4 lap races.
  Tollbooth races: A checkpoint style race where you only have a certain amount of time to get to 
 a checkpoint and then get a time boost.
  Speed Trap: A piece of the land where you have to accelerate a certain speed when passing by a 
 camera
  Drag: A multi lane race where you have to drive as fast as possible al the while trying to avoid 
 the other cars and obstacles that comes in your way
  
  There are also the police chases which is the most thrilling part of the game.
  You can get occasional 
 police chases during normal races but most of the time you will select them from your ingame garage.
 
  In police chases, there are a different array of goals that you must achieve to get bounty which 
 will lead you to each blacklist racer.
  These goals range from: getting away from the cops in a certain amount of time, lasting a certain 
 amount of time in a police chase, causing as much destruction as possible in a police chase and 
 more.
  
  There are also the usual customisation options you come to expect from a NFS games since NFS: Underground.
 
  The customisation options range from everything like new rims and stickers, to NOS and a new paint 
 job.
  You can also add performance upgrades to your car aswell.
  
  If all that wasnt enough, you can just drive around freely through the city of Rockport if you 
 like.
  The racing itself is great but it really doesnt become too tense or difficult until you start to 
 try out the more difficult races and police chases.
  One of the problems of the game play is the A. I which is stupid at first but then all of a sudden 
 is extremely intelligent and takes all the shortcuts on every track.
  
  Graphics: Overall, the graphics in NFS: Most Wanted are superb. The city looks great and every area 
 looks different to the last one, the cars are extremely detailed (And the pedestrian and cop car 
 models even have damage modelling now) the wreckage you cause to the environment also looks supremely 
 realistic. and the cutscenes also look really surreal and brilliant.
  
  Sound: The sound in NFS: Most Wanted however is something of a mixed bag. While the car noises and 
 the other satisfying sounds of wreckage to the environment sound great, the soundtrack i found 
 to be severely lacking due to the fact that i only like 4 songs out of the 26 that EA has (This 
 is obviously down to personal preference)
  The voice acting is mostly solid (For example Razor Callahan, who delivers an amazing villain style 
 voice in which you just want to punch him) some of the actors are definitely hokey still (the female 
 cop springs to mind) .
  
  Replay Value: There are upwards of 100 races to beat and tons of police chases to outlast before 
 you can finish the game so it will last you a few months at least. You can also drive your custom 
 made car online against other people which extends the replay value by quite a lot.
  
  Overall: NFS: Most Wanted is definitely one of the best NFS games there has ever been. The graphics 
 are great, the racings tense, the cutscenes are superb and overall its a game that racing fans 
 should not miss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LoZwii
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 7, 2007 6:51 am PT
Review:  When I first picked this up and put it in the computer I was like what the hell is this, this no 
 need for speed I've ever played. But I kept on playing and found it was a great game. The first 
 thing that I noticed was the graphics, they were sharp and crisp, even the ground looked real. 
 I started career mode and it started with a ridiculous cut scene where all you got out of that 
 was graphics too.
  I turned up the volume (someone was sleeping, i couldnt do that before) and listened to realistic 
 car sounds, where they were acctually different between one another. The sound track was perfect 
 for a street racing game, it gave it something that it wouldn't have had if it had NFS: HP2 sound 
 track. The racing itself was something i found slightly annoying, like how a cobalt ss can beat 
 a porsche now that was rediculous but i found out why, they scaled all the races, meaning the faster 
 your car is the faster and harder the AI is. That can make the game easier if you exploit the advantage, 
 but i would rather be able to get all the Porsches and Lambos and use them for killing the AI than 
 have to use an RX-7 the whole game so the AI dosen't swallow me up. The cop chases, however were 
 probably what made the game so great. They ranged from the heat level 1 police who couldn't catch 
 me on a scooter, let alone a car, to the heat level 5 where you will have helicopters swooping 
 down trying to hit you, and your worst nightmare, Sergent Cross's team of suped-up corvette driving 
 cops. The best part about this game that is not in career mode is multiplayer, dont forget to bring 
 a fast car. all in all this is a great game and I strongly reccomend it to racing fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hutapamo
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 6, 2007 8:49 am PT
Review:  Need For Speed Most Wanted is a Master Piece it is very cool. I am on blacklist 9 at the moments 
 but I have friends that have already finished the whole game. EA Games has done it again, Awesome!. 
 One of the things I like about this game is the Story The story line is so cool. I hate the guy 
 that has the ford mustang so bad. But what happens to him at the end makes me very happy, and I 
 am sure it also makes you happy. First I'm Gonna Take your Girl Then I am gonna take your ride 
 , He is such a show off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bradistheman711
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 4, 2007 1:40 pm PT
Review:  Its the best racing game i've played so far. I have need for speed carbon collector' s edition 
 also. But it don't work AT ALL! This version does (on an intel grafics card (LOL) ) . I've been playing 
 for over a week! I am really fasinated how un-stuipd the cops are (finally) . The gracis are great. 
 There is a LOT of competion. Best need for speed game to date! I like how they have people accully 
 in the game talking. Well they don't show you... But that ok. I like online how you can have a lamborgine 
 LONG before you onlock it.
  
  Ps: they online patch is here so you can accully enjoy going online without getting disconnected! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ak_samurai
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 2, 2007 1:24 am PT
Review:  Wake up to the smell of burnt asphalt as the thrill of illict street racing permeates the air .Most 
 Wanted challenges player to become the most notorious and elusive street racer .Combining illicit 
 street racing and tuner customization with the intensity of strategic police pursuit that surpasses 
 any Hollywood-style chase scene, Need For Speed Most Wanted will be on every gamer's must-have 
 list this holiday season. Out-race rivals, evade cops and exploit hundreds of miles of open road 
 as gamers make their way up the blacklist. This game is the best in all series and gives u real 
 moments of thrill and style. So what r u waiting for? Go and buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: prince_elad_69
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 20, 2006 10:42 am PT
Review:  who could have ever expected EA will make another NFS game... i didnt!!!
  dont these pepole think that there is too much of these series? they really have to make more? 
 listen... im not saying that its a bad game its good its just that there is like 8 games of NFS 
 and there are more to come... how much can they improve it?
  
  GRAPHICS: great graphics for a racing game not that the other racing games has a crappy graphics 
 they have a good graphics... but this graphucs is just a wholt lot beter...
  
  SOUND: rap.... thats the sound... and i likes only 1 song from all of the somgs that there in this 
 game... (if you wonder its fierd up )
  
  GAMEPLAY: its a racing game in these games you dont really have a gameplay... and the racec are only 
 like 2 laps you will defentley win no dout about it... maybe you have some cops to deal with during 
 the game but in the end... you are playing as a car!!!
  
  finally this game is fun for 10-15 hours and not for too long so enjoy it as much as you can because 
 when you start there is not much keft for you to finish
  
  BYE BYE 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Marco1402
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 20, 2006 8:42 am PT
Review:  Back in the old age for me there were 2 titles that stood out in the racing genre. Need for speed 
 and Collin mcrea. NFS had the amazing feeling of idiotic fun racing but very unrealistic and mcRae 
 was for those who liked realism. For realism you need spot-on graphics of the cars, good physics, 
 realistic controls and road grip. NFS all got those things right in this game, and still manages 
 to give you the feeling of maniacal street racing . Which is the trademark of NFS. It's a simulation 
 of speed. It's success is being proofed every time you try to beat a race in the higher levels. 
 You will need a lot of concentration and the adrenaline levels will rise. Apart from that, the 
 one thing that stands out in this game for me was the yaw dropping car-graphics. I hadn't seen 
 it this good. These graphics want's you to own all the amazing cars and have them stacked in your 
 hide-out. Which is already a reason to keep playing. The other reason is ofcourse the storyline, 
 but I must admit that I did't really bother about it. I just played to getting better cars and 
 outrunning more aggressive police forces. The story did't make much sense anyway. Another element 
 in the game increasing immersive gameplay, is the free to explore outdoor environment. Introduced 
 by grand theft auto this must be one of those features that will result in combining of genres, 
 and melting into a genre that has adventure, racing and action elements all into one game. Those 
 games I'm waiting for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ready2freeze
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 17, 2006 2:30 pm PT
Review:  This is the best NFS game i ever played, ever. The graphics rule, the music is cool, the cars are 
 shiny, the game mode rules. WHAT ELSE WOULD A GAMER WANT.
  
  But it has some bad points (i mean, every game has) .
  One is that after completing the story 
 mode, you can easily get bored driving over the sam streets over and over again.
  
  But i really have to say that the gamemakers gave a lot of effort in making the game. The cars, 
 the world and the people are really impressive.
  
  But if they have put Drift (like in NFS Underground 2) , and some crowd and harder races, they would 
 have gone way over the lists.
  
  All in All: THE BEST 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mtrack0
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 12, 2006 6:54 pm PT
Review:  Yes, Need for Speed Most Wanted is yet another illegal street racing game. Yes, it's filled with 
 embarrassing attempts to be hip and trendy. But don't let that steer you away. You'd miss exciting 
 races, thrilling chases, and a big, beautiful world to explore. You play as a newcomer to the metropolis 
 of Rockport, driving a seriously tricked-out car and ready to take on the locals in some street 
 races. You quickly meet up with the mysterious Mia, a hot, slinky babe eager to help you out -- 
 how convenient! You then run up against the arrogant jerk of the local scene, Razor Callahan. Just 
 when you're about to put him in his place in a race, your car falls victim to his sabotage. You 
 lose the race and your car, too, when he gets your pink slip. Razor then uses your car to rise 
 to the top of the Blacklist, the fifteen most daring and defiant street racers of the city. So 
 a smug jerk cheats you out of your car and wins the prestige that should have been yours. Time 
 to get even. There's only one problem: parts of the story are told with silly full-motion video 
 composited into computer graphics. We can only assume this was done to feature the eye candy of 
 model Josie Maran as Mia. Along with her, you're treated to a parade of wannabe hipsters mugging 
 for the camera and uttering one silly line after another. Based on the FMV storytelling, this game 
 should have been rated C for cheesy. Thankfully, Most Wanted largely ditches these sequences and 
 switches to simple text and audio messages once the career mode really gets underway. When your 
 career does get underway, don't be in too much of a hurry to get down to business. One of the best 
 parts of Most Wanted is the option for free-form gameplay. Imagine something a little bit like 
 Grand Theft Auto without the hookers and handguns. You can roar around town to see the sights, 
 head to an auto dealer, look for shortcuts you can use in upcoming races, dodge traffic, evade 
 cops, or just enjoy driving outrageously fast. Look who befriends you. Cool cars really work! As 
 you roam around -- if you can call blasting through a neighborhood at 175mph roaming -- you see 
 that the real star of Most Wanted is the city itself. The developers did a beautiful job crafting 
 an extensive and believable greater metropolitan area. You'll rocket through tollbooths out onto 
 the turnpike, passing woods awash with autumn colors, and then exit onto a busy four-lane highway, 
 barely dodging a semi laden with huge logs. From there, you might zip through the suburbs, pass 
 a commercial area on the way to the towering skyscrapers that mark the busy city center, and then 
 head down to an ocean-side boardwalk. What's doubly impressive is that all these areas flow together 
 smoothly and realistically, reminding you of real-world places you might have traveled through. 
 The size and detail needed for this illusion come at a cost, though: the game often chugs as it 
 is loading new data. Prove Your Worth The structured career play gets as much attention as the 
 free roaming. Before you can even face off with Blacklist racers, you'll need to prove your worth. 
 You do that by winning races, achieving milestones, and amassing bounty. Races come in six flavors. 
 You get multi-lap circuits and circuits where the last-place driver is eliminated after each lap 
 until only one racer remains. Then there are point-to-point sprints, as well as drag races that 
 test your shifting skills. You also get speedtrap and tollbooth races, which boil down to blasting 
 through checkpoints as quickly as possible. The courses themselves are reasonably varied and well 
 planned, with smooth flows between open highways and series of tight turns. You'll find plenty 
 of shortcuts and elevation changes -- and even get airborne off of some of them. The racing is 
 a blast because Most Wanted again captures the dizzying sense of speed the series has become known 
 for. It's a thrill to roar into a tunnel at over 150 mph, with the scene starting to blur, knowing 
 you might only have a fraction of a second to dodge an oncoming taxi. Actually, Most Wanted includes 
 a feature that helps you with those sticky situations: a rechargeable kind of bullet-time called 
 Speedbreaker. Just hit a button, and time slows for a little while to help you through dicey moments. 
 As exciting as races can be, they're not all rosy. They start to blur together after a while, creating 
 a strong and unpleasant sense of d&eacute; j&agrave; vu. rubber-band A. I. means it's rare for anyone 
 to achieve a significant lead: slower cars magically catch up while lead cars mysteriously start 
 to drive worse so you can make up time. That sort of cheating really hurts the illusion of real 
 racing and makes performance upgrades feel somewhat irrelevant. A. I. drivers also tend to play 
 bumper cars with you. Because of the minimal damage modeling, they can get away with it. The physics, 
 if you're wondering, can sometimes be downright silly: rubbing against a wall often slows you down 
 more than a head-on collision with a truck. Beat the Heat Happily, there's more to advancement 
 than just plain races. You also need to achieve milestones to take on Blacklist drivers. These 
 are special goals like getting clocked driving above a certain speed at a speed trap. The best 
 milestones involve police chases. To earn respect, you need to amass bounty by luring cops into 
 the wildest, most hazardous chases. You try to commit as many infractions as possible and cost 
 the state as much money as you can. These chases play like over-the-top action films where you're 
 the star. Hordes of black-and-whites roar down the streets after you and try to box you in or ram 
 you. You listen to their radio transmissions and hear them getting more and more frantic, deploying 
 more units, setting up roadblocks, and generally causing way more danger and damage than you. That 
 escalation is just what you want since the goal is to get chased and then keep it going as long 
 as possible without getting busted. The great thing about these chases is not just their speed 
 and cinematic mayhem, but that you get to drive wherever you want over the whole city. No more 
 sticking to a predetermined course; you lead the way. I fought the law, and the law won. Downshifting 
 After the adrenaline rushes of the cop chases, the actual races to beat Blacklist drivers feel 
 like nothing special. To keep you interested in career advancement, the game lets you buy and sell 
 cars and upgrade them with performance and visual mods as you rise up the ranks. You'll find a 
 fair range of cars: from Volkswagen Golf GTI's and Fiat Punto's up to Mercedes, Porsches, and Lamborghinis. 
 You get only basic tuning options for them, but hey, this is an arcade racer, so you can't complain 
 too much. (The Black Edition of the game adds a few specially tuned cars and races and some behind-the-scenes 
 material, but it's nothing to get excited about.) Along with the career mode, Most Wanted also 
 features the predictable array of quick race options, though many things need to be unlocked in 
 the career mode first. You also get online multiplayer, but it's a bore: just plain circuit, sprint, 
 and drag races. The glaringly obvious question is, why not some team-based cops-versus-racers modes? 
 EA blew a chance to take one of the best parts of the single-player game and devise some innovative 
 online modes from it. Purr and Roar With a couple notable exceptions, Most Wanted's audio is a 
 thing of beauty. The exceptions are the cheesy acting and the second-rate rap songs and rock tunes 
 that make up most of the soundtrack. (Happily, you can turn the tunes off.) Thank goodness the 
 game switches to high-quality orchestral music for the cop chases; it sounds like something right 
 out of your typical action movie blockbuster and really adds to the tension. The cop and dispatcher 
 voiceovers are much better than those of the racers, too. Best of all are the engine sounds: it's 
 a joy to hear these beauties purr and roar. The cars look almost as good as they sound, and Rockport's 
 elaborate visuals are clearly a labor a love. It's sad when someone tries to be hip and trendy; 
 you simply are or you aren't. Need for Speed Most Wanted tries its best to evince street cred and 
 attitude but looks silly in the process. Thank goodness that doesn't get in the way of the pulse-pounding 
 car chases, lighting-fast races, and a beautifully crafted game world. We most want more of that 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dj_copycat
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 9, 2006 1:31 pm PT
Review:  It has good graphics, the sound has no problem and the gameplay was easy, this years game they added 
 the police which I liked the most in the game, if they added more to custumize your car, it would 
 of been better. Although the game play is quite easy for me but not to some people. the driving is 
 more realistic and make it feel more real than other games. This game added a few new modes in to 
 the game, all I can think that is new to this game would be the challange series and the police 
 and speed trap mode which is new there is more but u have to unlock them like new cars and tracks 
 to race on.
  
  Then theres a black list in the career mode it quite good but a bit easy apart from when you want 
 to race with one of the bosses, you will have to beat a certain amount of races and win certain 
 amount of bounty to race the boss, and not to mention you will need to do task like you need to 
 get away from the police in less then 2 mins and more.
  
  Theres a challange series where u can do the same thing you only do time attack and task with the 
 police and more they are alot of fun but
  
  The online is great and makes it better u have got to try this online, online is the best bit about 
 most games and this just fits in nicey 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cinas522
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 8, 2006 3:56 pm PT
Review:  The graphics a awesome if you have a high performance PC. The controls are good with a steering 
 weal but building up bounty can get annoying. It's a must get for those with high performance PCs. 
 In my opinion I had alot of fun with it and the ability to use exotics and customise exotics rally 
 added to the over all experiance. The fact that a Golf at full performance cutomisation can keep 
 up with a Carrera GT at full customisation is strange and funny. That is why when i beat my friends 
 I rub it in their faces at how i beat them in a Golf while there in an exotic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EcnirP_PrincE
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 6, 2006 3:33 am PT
Review:  I just cant stop praising it . Finally after the not so impressive NEED FOR SPEED UNDERGROUND2 
 EA games has come up with a master-piece . The pursuits in this game are so close to real that 
 you can really feel like you are racing and the police is after you . After all what do you need 
 in a pursuit ----- Police who do not give up easily (with the exceptions of level 1 and 2) , fast 
 cars , boosters , hitting traffic , pursuit breakers , speed breakers , destroying police vehicles, 
 engaging in really long pursuits. Liked that the lap knockout races are back in favour as they 
 were inexplicably missing from the previous two editions of this game. You can get all the parts 
 in one shop , create milestones , also there are speed traps , tollbooths............. The black 
 list gives a kind of job to complete . So go on and play this and complete it. it easy to access 
 the races from the blacklist . So you dont have to search for races . You can play the races again 
 and again and earn more money . For pursuits I recommend to use the 1st area Just come back a little 
 and go round and round the bridge and easily make the pursuit last longer . Never ever press the 
 reset button during pursuit . Use the stadium to evade as there are two pursuit breakers side by 
 side and a hiding place . After you defeat a blacklist racer choose the markers with question marks 
 and you can get the pink slip ,ie, the car of the racer you just defeated . Finally i will say 
 that it is much much better than its predecessor . So have a go at it and feel the difference between 
 it and the others . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rambolito
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 29, 2006 3:31 am PT
Review:  At this moment I'm still playing the game working my way up the blacklist. I probably could've 
 beaten #1 by now, but I'm having soo much fun racing the cops that I've lost interest in beating 
 my opponents. Ramming police cars, crashing into traffic, high speed chases lasting 30 to 45 minutes, 
 bounty over 4.5 million, burn that rubber baby!!
  
  Graphics: My system is able to run the game in 1600x1200 with full options. Streets, cars, buildings, 
 landscapes, horizons, lights, cloud shadows, splashing rain, all are highly detailed and looking 
 awesome.
  
  Sound: The FX is great and the background music make you push the pedal even more
  
  Game play: 
 Each car feels different and changing performance settings are really noticeable. If you're doing 
 it right you can make a car stick to the road like glue. Besides the trucks the other cars in traffic 
 are a bit 'light', they can be pushed away pretty easily.
  
  AI: The adaptive AI works ok, though when you have to beat a blacklist opponent and you appear 
 at the start with the slowest car money can buy, you will see that your opponent adapts to your 
 car and will drive slowly. I'd rather seen that he/she speeded away like an idiot, requiring you 
 to show up with a decent car.
  The police's AI is very good, they are harder to shake off each time and they really try to close 
 you in and drive you off the road. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KenRmaster
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 28, 2006 7:08 am PT
Review:  Has to be rated as one of (if not ) thee best game (s) of the series. The most fun part of the game 
 to me has got to be the po po's intelligence, When the set out after you on a level 4 or 5 chase 
 they come after you hard. when you get the hang of the game you can evade them pretty good but 
 theres always that moment when they get you with some Clever move. The challenge mode is definitely 
 the hardest in the game period, the story mode has some tight spots but nothing like the challenge 
 mode, Esp when you have to Beat the toll booth time with a Level 5 police chase in a level 1 Police 
 cruiser ( the weakliest and not to mention slowest police car in the game ) yeah that ish! was 
 hard but pick this one up , it will have you UP all night . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slayer_Sam
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2006 11:32 am PT
Review:  Wohoo! The along waited sequel to one of my favorite games arrived, Need for Speed Most Wanted. 
 This is the ultimate 10th anniversary Need For Speed! The series has improved over the years, adding 
 more and more features from simple racing on closed circuits to city speeding and winding up with 
 car customization, underground racing syndicates and struggles for power. Of course, we are still 
 talking about an arcade racing game. So, don't expect anything more than a straightforward arcade 
 racing! At the beginning of the game you will be able to create an unique driving profile. Once 
 you've adjusted the settings to your preference, you can select one of the following racing modes: 
 Career, Quick Race, Challenge Series, Online, LAN. The Career mode of the game is just awesome 
 and it makes you want to play the game and it really does. The story, for the most part, is nothing 
 special, but it does serve its purpose of providing you a reason to race. Your character is a no-name 
 and no-face new racer who comes to a fictional town looking for some good street racing. Instead, 
 you have been wronged by a racer named Razor, and your only desire is revenge. With the help of 
 your sidekick, Mia, you hope to rise through the ranks of the Blacklist to eventually get a shot 
 at winning your ride back. You climb the Blacklist of racers until you reach the top. As before, 
 in order to gain recognition, you must first complete a series of different challenges to prove 
 you got what it takes to be a top street racer. Fifteen racers make up this illegal organization 
 which competes with cash, pink slips and respect. Naturally, the more you move up, the more areas 
 and customization parts you unlock. In order to challenge a blacklisted rider, you have to complete 
 a preset list of challenges. These include having achieved a certain number of milestones gained 
 during cop chases such as Avoid 3 roadblocks or Trade paint, having won a certain number of races 
 and having your bounty at a certain amount. Races range from stuff like circuit to sprint and lap 
 knockout to more exotic activities such as tollbooth challenges (you racing to several checkpoints 
 within predetermined time limits) , drag races and speed trap challenges where you get registered 
 by the police radars in several places off the course with the highest speed possible. That's easily 
 +20 hours just to beat the career mode. And that doesn't include the dozens of cop chases, additional 
 milestones or free-roam races you can pick up at any time. (Note: there is no Quick Race Freeroam, 
 only Career Freeroam) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jfinaz2
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 17, 2007 8:12 pm PT
Review:  After playing Need for Speed Underground 2 I decided to try out this game. The thing I liked the 
 most was the better selection of cars that it has. You can race Porsche's, BMW's Corvettes and 
 Mercedes, Underground 2 only had a bunch of wimpy cars that have less power than my motorcycle. 
 I wasn't very impressed with the graphics though, eveything seem to look brown and dull in color. 
 The game is also very demanding on your hardware, I have a Pentium 4 3.4ghz with 2 gb of ram and 
 a ATI 850xt graphics card and the game barley runs on it. I have to set the grahics at about 50% 
 of the max setting and it still runs slow at times.
  
  Update: I had this game for 2 years now and I still can't finish it. I don't know why they make 
 the ending so difficult. The last few races and pursuits take hundreds of trys before you can win. 
 If you enjoy running the same race every day for months or you want a game that you can play for 
 10 years and never finish try this one out. It's totally rediculous and just irritates me. I wish 
 I could just get to the end of the game so I can throw it away and finally never play it again. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: toastycrumbs
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 18, 2006 10:45 pm PT
Review:  aw.. rember the day of hot pursuit? the insane racing and the fun of cops zipping around? aw good 
 times. but then, suddenly need for speed was taken underground! it was morphed and formed into 
 a game where you... ahh... dont do fun things. but when there seemed to be no hope left.. it retuned 
 to daylight with need for speed most wanted. and so our legend begins...
  with this game you can do everything from the other titles. exepct the not fun parts. with pristine 
 graphics that really make you feel like your in the car, and the sound effects that have you looking 
 right at your speakers this has been one of the best addions to the series. if cop chases seem 
 exciting this game is for you. if you have a sweet tooth for a multiude of cars this game is for 
 you. if you get butterflies in your stomach when you think about three disticnlly differnt distrits 
 to drive your cars this game is for you. if you sweat when you think about nearly limtless customization 
 options for your car this game is for you ( if you sweet when you think about josie maran this 
 game is for you but for all the wrong reasons) the only down side to this game is the lack of being 
 able to control cop cars. (there is a few in challage series but that wont cut it) there are fun 
 things like cement truck driving and all sorts of things in challage series so cheak this game 
 O-U-T! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: muthsera666
Rating: 7.6
Date: Nov 14, 2006 12:24 pm PT
Review:  Overall the game is great.
  
  The visuals are awesome, and the city through which you race is very impressive. The graphics really 
 serve to immerse you in the game. There is some use of blurring in the game, but this only happens 
 when traveling at incredibly high speeds, which helps you to really feel that you are going 191 
 miles an hour.
  
  There is a great selection of vehicles from which to choose your car, and all of them are upgradeable. 
 One of the motivations you sill find to try to advance through the rankings is to unlock the next 
 level of parts. The engine, transmission, suspension, brakes, tires, and nos are upgradeable on 
 all cars. Some cars have an added feature of a turbo, which ups the power of the car. The cars 
 found range from an Eclipse to a Supra to a Mercedes to a Corvette to a Viper, etc. There are also 
 32 other cars you can buy, though some are locked until beating certain ranked racers.
  
  The handling of the vehicles is great, the controls are responsive, and you have to smile when 
 you manage to take a turn at 180 mph, feeling the car try to drift off the road and spin out of 
 control. Occasionally this does happen, but it is realistic in that it only happens because you 
 are traveling at such high speeds.
  
  The soundtrack is something else that is wonderful. All of the songs fit into the adrenaline-filled 
 world of the street racing.
  
  With all of these details, I have to say that I would have loved the game to no end, if it wasn't 
 for the glitch. When I was playing, I made it to Blacklist #4 out of 15. My roommate had played 
 through the entire Blacklist before I was able to race #4, so I don't know if that was the cause, 
 though on two separate save files, it shouldn't have changed anything in any other ones. Anyway, 
 when I before I completed all of the race requirements to race #4, it said that he was defeated. 
 At that time I just thought it was a minor glitch, but no big deal. Then I took the car I was driving 
 to the auto shop to see if I had all of the available upgrades, and I found that I could purchase 
 some parts that previously said that I had to defeat #3. At this point, I was beginning to be worried, 
 and when I finished all of the requirements to race #4, I found that my worries were justified. 
 I could not race #4, as it said that he was already defeated by me. This meant that I also could 
 not race #3, #2, or #1. This means that I could not complete the game. I was furious at this, but 
 I thought that occasionally glitches happen.
  
  Yesterday, I started a new game, under a different name, and began the races all over again. When 
 I made it to #11, I checked back through the list and found that the game had glitched away the 
 races I had done for #13, saying that I had not done any of them. After redoing all of those races, 
 I looked back at #11, and it said that I had defeated him. I completed all of the requirements 
 to try to race him and it would not let me.
  
  My roommate completed the career mode before me, but I do not know if this had anything to do with 
 the glitch or not.
  
  I hate to say not to play the game, because I loved playing it when it worked, but with the glitches 
 making it unplayable, it definitely interrupts the gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_mighty_boos
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 4, 2007 12:24 pm PT
Review:  This game has anything you would ever want from the street racing, car modding genre. A decent 
 selection of everyday to luxury cars, fast and exciting gameplay and a wide selection of parts 
 and performance upgrades to add to your selected ride/s. There are still some problems with this 
 game that we all hoped that Carbon would iron out. For a start, this game is pretty easy and disappointingly 
 short. Veteran racers will blast through this game in about 6-8 hours, and other than online play 
 there isnt much replayability. So length is an issue. Another problem is the whole 'unlock' system 
 that has you racing Blacklist members to unlock new parts for your car. I personally would have 
 much preferred newer parts to be simply more expensive, so that you could choose to do free races 
 and win money so that you can pimp your car out fully instead of having to wait until you complete 
 the game to get all the nicest body kits and paint jobs. This means you have to either drive around 
 in your stock bodykit (certainly pretty boring on most of the cars) or opt to buy a not-so-good 
 looking body kit instead of getting the one you really want, which means youre wasting hard earned 
 cash. But with these problems aside, NFSMW is definetely the best racer of its genre out on the 
 market today. Carbon was simply unimpressive and more of a step backwards for thr NFS series, so 
 I recommend you get its older but much wiser brother instead.
  
  The Good - Lots of custimisation options for your car - Good selection of vehicles - Driving is 
 mostly great
  
  The Bad - Quite easy - No night time... when will there be an NFS game that has both!??? - The FPS 
 could do with improvement 
::::::

::::::
UserName: titanic100
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 3, 2006 6:43 am PT
Review:  This game is great anyone who wants a good chase and they want to do cars up and race them the 
 is your game. And what makes even more amazing is that you have to work your way back to the top 
 of the blacklist and race the other people on there. The game starts off very easy but as you go 
 along it gets harder and harder And also you have cash to sped on a car and do it up so that it 
 car race it I have played the game 2 times and I don't get bored of it the game is fun to play 
 and the graphics and sound are amazing I would recommend this game to any one who likes faster 
 cars and also doing them up and racing them. Then this is the game for you 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jelle_schepens
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 31, 2006 2:17 pm PT
Review:  NFSMW in just one of the big serie of Need For Speed's, you have a whole bunch of them, but this 
 one will stay my favorite, because it's not just tuning your car, it's also about winning other 
 people their cars, well the story goes like this, you have one sweet BMW (the white and blue one 
 from the cover)
  and some PUNK dares to ride beside you and he dares you he is nr.... of the blacklist (the whole 
 game is about the blacklist, because you got to beat ppl from the blacklist to win cars and win 
 your BMW back) he makes your car stall and he wins your car, that's a bum he, but luckely a nice 
 woman (nice back to ;-) ) will help you to win your car back, you get a car, it's a new one but 
 he drives like 10 MPH, you think ooooh man, do i gotta win my car back with this??? 
  but don't fear while you race the little scum in the sreet who race snails of cars you get some 
 money to tune your car and get a sweet engine or use the car of a person you enhilated of the blacklist, 
 some nice cars, the blacklist counts 15 people with 15 cars and guess wich car is nr 1, yes your 
 own BMW. you gotta own everybody in the blacklist and become nr1 and get your BMW back, nice graphics 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PunkAss007
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 30, 2006 6:21 am PT
Review:  Ok, here goes... I can clearly say that I'm impressed by graphics cuz it is probably one of the 
 greatest I've ever seen... The cars, the environment, the effects, everything is a 10/10... There 
 is just one thing that most people wonder: why can't you put neon lights on your car? The answer 
 is simple: Most wanted is happening durng the day ( it's always day during the gameplay) ! In Underground 
 you can put them in your car cuz it's night... Anyway, the sound is good, the cars are good and 
 so is the neighborhood! The great thing are those pursuit breakers that get the police of your 
 back for some time, just about enough for you to get your @$$ out of there... The game is really 
 a several steps away from it's precedors... I think it's best in series for now, since Carbon will 
 soon be released... Well, that's about it, I hope you like the game too...:) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AmarJ
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 28, 2006 7:35 am PT
Review:  Wow ! Awesome game this from EA. Surely the best NFS till date. In this game the story kicks off 
 with you entering Rockport city to rule the illegal street gangs. But alas trickery and treachery 
 leads to loss you losing the race against Razor, blacklist 15 then , who snachets your awesome 
 BMW-M3-GTR and then becomes blacklist 1 via your ride. And hence begins your hunt to beat Razor 
 and to get your ride back. But, the coast ain't
  clear. You have to beat 14 blacklist rivals and the Rockport PD itself. Choose over 32 vehicles 
 available to you, make them stylish, make them
  powerful, and begin your hunt. Save the career, you also have a challenge series to complete which 
 is also tougher than career mode. Plus, online gameplay make it doubly fun. Beating the police 
 is fun for sure. It's all in this,
  Buy this if you are looking for some rad racing. Become the most notorious !
  This is what you 
 call guilty pleasure ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shagga
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 27, 2006 6:01 am PT
Review:  This game is possibly the greatest car racing game ever made, I still enjoy playing it even though 
 I've had it for about a year and a half. The gameplay is awesome it is heavily backed up by the 
 graphics which make the gameplay so good. This game continues to amaze me because you can play 
 it for hours on end trying to beat one of the racers. For instants when you get up to Razor you 
 have to race him about 5 times to actually win. Razor is probably the hardest, It doesn't matter 
 where you are you basically always have cops around you somewhere or another which makes the game 
 more exciting. The cop chases go for long periods of time and are extremely fun to do. If I didnt 
 own this game I would go out and buy it in seconds, you can always find something to do in this 
 game whether it be fixing up your car or racing or even having a police chase. But be carful the 
 cops do take your car if you get caught enough times in a police chase with the same car, so try 
 to use a different one from time to time. This game is one of the best computer games ever made 
 I would think. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dups79
Rating: 6.8
Date: Oct 24, 2006 9:44 am PT
Review:  The concept of this game is great. Everyone loves the idea of trying to outrun the cops.
  
  First the bad.
  
  If you are looking for realism you are not at the right place. Your car can 
 hit a transport at 200mph and continue driving. This is ok and adds length to the car chases but 
 you do not have to do any thinking other then avoiding spike strips.
  
  The front of your car is a perfect square! What do I mean by that? Well if you happen to hit a 
 guard rail or a wall or something similar you have to back up and then turn. In reality you should 
 be able to turn left or right and simply push and grind against the structure. However the game 
 mechanics have it so that you can get pinned by cops during pursuit mode. This is fine and dandy 
 because otherwise it would be nearly impossible for the cops to stop you if you could simply push 
 the gas and move their cars out of the way. The problem lies when you are just doing a plain race 
 mode. If you hit a wall or something you cannot just keep your wheels turned and grind against 
 the wall. Well you can but it takes forever for you to continue.
  
  Drag racing mode. Wow , what a horrible mode in this game. Luckily you can achieve #1 rating on 
 the blacklist without having to do too many of these drag races. The concept is great but the stearing 
 is horrible. Nothing I hate more then telling your care to turn left and it does not and after 
 repeating the turn signal 3 times in a row your car shifts over 3cm and still hits the car. I found 
 to beat this extremely irritating mode I just drive at a medium speed and hope for the other car 
 to crash and then take your sweet time making it to the finish line.
  
  I personally hate the real people in front of a green screen cutscene graphics for any game. It 
 just seems to cheap.
  
  The good.
  
  It's a fun game and stays relativly fresh because you have to get away from the cops any which 
 way that you can. The graphics, other then the darn green screen cutscenes, are pretty good. The 
 cars look good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Poobumplum
Rating: 2.1
Date: Oct 20, 2006 8:15 am PT
Review:  This game is my worst investment in any game i ever bought and the game was only $30 AU First of 
 all you cant be cops which is a major letdown for me, The have no nissans for i dont know why, 
 no skylines no 350Z, ziltch. worst selections of cars to place cutomize cars, and even if the cars 
 where good there really crap bodykits anyways and limited spoilers anyhow.
  
  When turning corners the car drifts rather than actually turning. EVEN THE 4WD cars have the tendicys 
 to drift.
  
  the game has dodgey car physics repetative boring missions and dull graphics 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deluderkriss
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 4, 2006 11:03 am PT
Review:  No matter how hard it is almost useless to wait for a brilliant plot in a race game, we have that 
 to admit that Need will be Speed Most Wanted if it strengthens. In the way career, you it assumes 
 the role of a personage without name or same face in fame search and glory in the fictitious city 
 of Rockport. the visuall is more clean then the underground 2, because the game pass in the morning.
 
  this game exceeds all its predecessors, nice graphics. perfect, all the age is worth to play this 
 game. we on brazil has the black edition version witch new cars, and mission. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 7540
Rating: 8.2
Date: Sep 30, 2006 12:02 am PT
Review:  Need for Speed was started back in the days, and I haven't really had a taste for retarded racing 
 games, because I found Gran Turismo much more exciting. Then came Underground 2, which got me into 
 racing games like a cow on a diet. I loved the tune-ups, the great car designs and the slick graphics. 
 (And Brooke...) . Then when Most Wanted was released, I went plumb-crazy. This was a huge improvement 
 since Hot Pursuit in 2003, so it was a great opportunity. But I found something missing, originality. 
 The cop chases I've seen in Grand Theft Auto was way more exciting because your car got trashed 
 along the way. In Most Wanted, the car seems bulletproof. The police can ram you from heck to worse 
 and it still won't pull off a scratch. In short, Most Wanted could've been a much better game only 
 if there was any means of damage. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: richmonducc
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 21, 2006 10:35 pm PT
Review:  Need For Speed Most Wanted the latest edition of need for speed games, is by far the best. It has 
 fast cars with a keen eye for detail with large proportions of detail and customisation. However, 
 the game can become repetitive and frustrating at times, but in the end all the pressure and time 
 you play makes it worth while
  The game really is about revenge, revenge for your car, as you travel through cities and do multiple 
 range of races and events in pursuit of the blacklist and your car (BMW) .
  The game offers true reality and enjoyment, for any keen player this game is well worth your while.
 
  8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PikeWake
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 20, 2006 7:48 am PT
Review:  I'll start with the only things I don't like about this game: The police chase milestones are sometimes 
 a bit too random and the music is in many cases not optional for playing in the background of roaring 
 engines and screeching tires.
  Apart from that: I love it.
  Since I've been playing most of the recent Need for Speed titles extensively I can't help comparing 
 MW to them, and NFSU2 in particular.
  The greatest improvement is in my opinion the behavior of the computer controlled opponents in 
 the single player game. The game succeeds with simulating actual drivers in these cars, drivers 
 who react to their environment and make mistakes. Earlier games in the series and other similar 
 games have had to resort to cheating and tweaking to balance the skills of opponents to those of 
 the player. In MW, you feel that a similar car to yours will perform like your car and the only 
 thing that matters is skill.
  The graphics are not the almost cartoony strong colors and neon of earlier NFS titles, but more 
 muted and realistic. The speed blur and other effects work well without taking focus from the driving 
 that is the main point of the game.
  The game sounds as well as you would expect from the NFS series, with the only exception being 
 that the guitar grind of many of the sound track songs just blend into the rest of the sound effects 
 and gets quite annoying after a while.
  The physics and game play are of course not very realistic, but still feel right. There is a noticeable 
 difference in behavior of the cars and performance upgrades really make a difference in most cases.
 
  Customizing your car with paint schemes and parts is as fun as it was in the Underground games, 
 even though it doesn't have the same impact on the game as in those titles.
  Overall I expect this to be one of the games I'll continue to play on and of for a long time, and 
 I recommend it to any fan of arcade style racing games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: charizard1605
Rating: 6.8
Date: Sep 17, 2006 12:53 am PT
Review:  Before any of you begin reading this review, I would like to say that this review is for NFS Most 
 Wanted on all platforms except Sony. Thank You.
  
  Need For Speed Most Wanted is the ninth in the series that began some eleven years ago. The first 
 Need For Speed was immediately acclaimed for its sheer realism, but it lacked that arcade race 
 feel. With the second game, all tha change. The second game gave you all the speed you wanted and 
 lived up to its name.
  
  The Third Game, Hot Pursuit, added an interesting twist to the tale: police chases. It became the 
 highest selling NFS game ever, and EA decided to carry forward its success with High Stakes, Game 
 No. 4. This was the first game to feature a Career mode, as well as the police.
  
  The fifth game returned the series to its roots with realistic simulation AND the police AND a 
 career mode. Porsche Unleashed has often been hailed as the best NFS game ever.
  
  With the sixth game, EA Blackbox started developing NFS. And with its fantastic graphics and high 
 sense of speed, Hot Pursuit 2 was an instant hit. Its succesor, though was better. NFSU deleted 
 the police but added sch an addictive feel to it that it was impossible to let go, and this feeling 
 was not there in NFSU2.
  
  Which brings us to Most Wanted. Now, Most Wanted seems to be an interesting concept. You are a 
 racer in a large free roaming city, and are about to hit the blacklist, though fifteen racers stand 
 in your way. However, racers have been wreaking havoc in this city, and the Police is on the prowl 
 for them. While you race and after it, you'll haveto constantly avoid the police.
  
  Now, though it sounds good, Most Wanted seems to be bland, to speak the truth. It simply doesnt 
 have Hot Pursuit 2 or Underground's addictiveness. So even though you'll be playing, you'll never 
 get absorbed in the game, or not as much as you'd like to.
  
  The graphics of this game are fantastic on all platforms (though they could have been better on 
 the DS) . The movies blend into the game smoothly, every detail and car of the city is rich, as 
 are the colours. But the sound disappoints. The included soundtrack simply isnt as good as it was 
 in the previous three games. Gameplay basically remains the same, though I wish they hadnt removed 
 the style points and the N2O filler system. Plus, customisation of car is just something in the 
 background, it doesnt play that important a role anymore.
  
  All in all, NFS MW is a good game, a decent effort, but it simply isnt addictive or exhilerating. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madskongen
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 20, 2007 3:31 am PT
Review:  Good game, Very fun and Exciting Gameplay.
  
  Good Stuff : 
  
  + First off the Story reminded me alot like some kind of Fast and Furious movie with the player 
 as the start Obviously, very good looking Cut Scenes, feels like you're in a movie from time to 
 time.
  
  + Alot like the Previous Need for Speed games, but this one is better in many ways, Mainly because 
 of the graphics, as most of whats in Most Wanted has been done before, not a bad thing though.
 
  
  + Very fast cars, with plenty of things to unlock for your cars
  
  + Obviously you have the ability to make your own cars and pimp them however you want them.
  
 
  + Best game mode for me was the Free Roaming in the city, and the parts where you are chased by 
 cops when you start the mission and must Evade them to complete.
  
  + Sound was also great, nice fitting soundtrack, and when cops chase you they describe your actions 
 on the police radio, "suspect heading down on south Al pine Drive" for example, made the game feel 
 more realistic
  
  
  Bad Stuff : - Couldnt play it for a very long periods before it getting old
  
  - Some races 
 are damn hard, and become frustrating
  
  - Short single player
  
  - Few "maps" or City parts and become Repedative in the long run
  
  - Some Minor annoyances. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lakaylambak
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 7, 2006 11:04 am PT
Review:  After two installments in bright neon and perpetual darkness, Electronic Arts long-running Need 
 for Speed series return in scorching sunlight with Need for Speed: Most Wanted. Most Wanted still 
 retains the illegal street racing formula as well as modding and customizing properties prevalent 
 in NFS: Underground 1 and 2. Whats highly anticipated in Most Wanted, however, wasnt featured 
 since NFS: Hot Pursuit 2: cops.
  
  The Underground titles, despite the exaggerated portrayal of street racing and other subversive 
 elements, just seem to be illogical without the cop presence. In Most Wanted, though, the police 
 are everywhere. The strongest asset of this game is obviously the thrilling pursuits that not only 
 take account of your skills in speed and maneuverability, but also your capability to take your 
 ride out of police sight. This is a Need for Speed game that surprisingly requires stealth.
  
  You start off controlling a faceless driver who just arrived in Rockport, a city adjacent to 
 Bayview (of Underground 2 fame) . Initially driving a tuned-up BMW M3 GTR, you drift around, winning 
 races, gaining reputation and in time getting the attention of the Blacklist, the fifteen highest-ranking 
 street racers in the city. Razor, an unlikable punk ranked at the bottom of the list, challenges 
 you, but in the middle of the race your car breaks down, losing the race and forfeiting your ride. 
 As Razor and his gang speed away, the police, led by Sergeant Cross, arrive in the scene to arrest 
 you for illegal street racing. Doing your time, youll soon find out that Razor sabotaged your 
 ride, and now uses it to get to the Blacklist tops. Unexpectedly, a mysterious woman named Mia 
 bails you out, giving you the chance to take it out again on the Blacklist and helping you exact 
 your revenge on Razor. Here is where the real gameplay begins.
  
  Working your way up in the Blacklist involves the overall plot of the game. It is a tedious task, 
 as each Blacklist member has a set of quotas you must fulfill before you can be able to challenge 
 him/her. These conditions come in the form of winning races, acquiring bounties, and other less 
 mundane tasks like surpassing speed traps or gaining enough damage costs. Here and there cut scenes 
 abound as you progress in the charts: mostly Mia giving you tips and such, or Razor threatening 
 you time and again. A little campy and childish, but is a welcome break from all the action.
  
  Races make most of the requirements, and a variety of race types from previous Need for Speed 
 titles return. You can join races (or other events) through the highly useful game menu, or you 
 can roam around the city streets, looking for signs, GTA-style. The racing, nonetheless, is quite 
 unexceptional in its own, and the race A. I. has no discernible improvements from preceding titles. 
 The difficulty of events is also a little unbalanced: in earlier races, you can drive your car 
 in a cruising manner and still easily win the race, while in later rounds you take all the shortcuts 
 and the competition could still overtake you in the final lap. Much more enjoyable are the pursuit 
 missions, where most of the bounty and some of the conditions can be fulfilled in a single chase. 
 Indeed, the sight of 20 or so police cars chasing after you and working out strategies to make 
 you stop is more tense and gripping than most of the races, especially when you get to fulfill 
 the quotas and covertly hide from the smokies at the same time.
  
  But the police are no pushovers, either. Earlier chases may seem easy to get away from, but the 
 higher your heat level is the more forceful are their methods in bringing you down. These range 
 from standard squad cars and roadblocks to heavy-duty Rhino SUVs, spikes, choppers, and Corvette-driving 
 feds. Very high heat levels may even earn you a chase with Sergeant Cross himself, the best driver 
 in the force, and his highly customized Corvette C6. In spite of the sometimes-overwhelming number 
 of chasers, you are not without help: the city has various structures called pursuit breakers 
 you can smash to stop nearby chasers, and strategically placed hideouts where you can sneak in 
 your ride for quick cool-offs. Another important feature is the Speedbreaker, which you can use 
 to slow time a la Matrix, giving you the edge to maneuver effortlessly on those sharp curves or 
 tight situations.
  
  But to win races and elude cops imposingly, of course, you need an impressive ride. Game starts 
 with only three relatively slow cars, but as you progress up the Blacklist, faster, better-performing 
 cars are unlocked. Also, when you beat a Blacklist member, you get a chance to acquire his ride. 
 Most Wanted offers more than 30 richly diverse vehicles: from Asian tuners to European sports cars 
 to American muscle cars. Tuning up and customizing your car is also very detailed, although not 
 as exhaustive as in Underground 2, and not just for cosmetic or performance reasons: it helps keep 
 the heat level of your car down. It is highly recommended that you own more than a couple of cars 
 so you can cycle between them when one car gets hot enough in a cops eye.
  
  Aside from Career mode, you could race against computer A. I. in the Custom race mode, or look for 
 other virtual racers online. Then theres the Challenge mode, a series of, well, challenges that 
 require you to finish missions using a specific car. Much like the tasks given by the Blacklist 
 in Career mode, only more diversified, this feature is a little tiring and unremarkable at best. 
 Graphics-wise, Most Wanted is noteworthy, particularly car gloss and in-game environment, although 
 you need a very high-end PC to experience Most Wanteds full graphic potential. Game lighting and 
 gamma are stunning: for example, when you exit a long dark tunnel the whole screen would be blinded 
 by light for a brief period, much like in real life. Although small details like buildings and 
 tree leaves look uninspiringly flat, and car damage only cosmetic, convincing speed blurs, beautiful 
 weather effects and game physics add up to make the game all the more realistic.
  
  But the real contributor to the games realism is sound. EA reportedly recorded the engine sounds 
 of every single car in the game, giving each car an aural signature, and upgraded vehicles even 
 hum different. Also, for added realism and strategy, each car has a police band so you can hear 
 when the police spot you, plan strategies, or call for backup. The cops speak on codes, and as 
 a tip it is better to recognize what theyre talking about. In fact, you might rely on this element 
 many times during a chase, as it could save you from getting busted one or twice. The game also 
 includes an electrifying soundtrack consisting primarily of energized hip-hop and urban rhythms. 
 Just imagine dashing at 200 mph to the beat of Jamiroquai, the Prodigy and Styles of Beyond.
  
  Most Wanted is quite impressive, with its engaging storyline and decent gameplay. It has good 
 graphics and even better sound effects. It is by far the most enjoyable NFS game Ive encountered, 
 thanks largely to the almost-endless and extremely tense pursuits the police constantly throw at 
 me. Not without its bad bumps, particularly the races themselves, but overall, it certainly lives 
 up to its name. I highly recommend you to have a pursuit for it as well; just dont forget to wear 
 your seatbelts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: enzo_bugatti000
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 4, 2006 10:14 pm PT
Review:  the game play is at times very interesting and highly tense in the challenge series but at the 
 same time while playing the career it is most of thetimes boring. I think nfs underground is lot 
 more better
  
  there is not much to say about mostwanted. the game trax are not that attractive.
  some of the 
 the cars in game are very attractive like the lamborghini murceilago and the mercedes. the most 
 i like i the game is dashing my into the police blockade. it would be much better if much power 
 was given to trash the heavy suv's as they come smashing on to us 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Morphieous
Rating: 8.4
Date: Sep 4, 2006 3:46 pm PT
Review:  Introduction
  
  Being one of the launch titles for the Xbox360, Need For Speed Most Wanted takes street racing, 
 car chases and a hell of alot of speed and puts it all into one. In previous Need For Speed titles 
 game developers seemed to focus mostly on illegal street racing (The Underground series) . But what 
 is a street racing game without the cops behind you? Most Wanted takes back that style of gameplay 
 NFS once had in the past. Mixing together awesome visuals, excellent sound and great, fun gameplay 
 this is by far one of the best racing game to date. 
  
  Story Line 
  
  In Most Wanted you play a racer (obviously) who has lost his ride in a race where some dude named 
 Razor sabotaged his car. This story line however is really well told and also well written. But 
 there isn't enough cut scenes to back this up. I taught this was one of the main flaws in this game. 
 Even though they have you on the edge of your seats wanting to find out more, it would have been 
 nice to see some of those visually stunning scenes. 
  
  Gameplay
  
  After starting up with an unfair race, loosing your car and being taken off to jail, you are held 
 with the duty of starting over. You must work you way up all over again and this also means having 
 the lamest car on the block in the first few hours of gameplay. In order to reach Razor you have 
 to win a set of races and beat the top 10 on the Blacklist (the blacklist are the racers you have 
 to defeat in order to make it back to the top) . 
  
  To challenge these racers you must first complete each requirement of them. These requirements 
 include races, bounty (police chases) , and pursuit milestones. This style of entering races is 
 fairly simple and suites the flow of the overall gameplay. Upgrading your vehicle isn't difficult 
 and tedious like previous NFS games. 
  
  There are only 3 shops in total, a car lot (to buy new cars) , safe house and shop. This makes getting 
 things done extremely simply because you can access everything you need in one shop rather than 
 driving all over the map looking for a place to paint you vehicle or buy performance parts. The 
 car physics and driving elements are excellent and really well done. 
  
  When you crash into a police car they actually go flying. This adds a lot of fun to this game and 
 makes it so much enjoyable. But not only does it do that but these physics actually make you go 
 through roadblocks instead of trying to dodge them, just to see those cars soar in the air. In 
 Need For Speed Most Wanted developers really went the extra mile in the gameplay department. The 
 gave us a smooth street racing game that suites the series on the whole, and totally fits the PC. 
 
  
  Controls
  
  As you all may know racing games handle so much better on a gamepad or on those really cool steering 
 wheels compared to on the keyboard. If you don't own any of these you can still play Need For Speed 
 Most Wanted, just get ready for controls that are a bit touchy. 
  
  Visuals
  
  Stunning, amazing and just great. Three words that best describe what this game looks like. Even 
 though it isn't quite as good as the Xbox360 version you can move all the settings up to it dangerously 
 close. However doing so will greatly slow down your computer if you don't have it juiced up and 
 on drugs. 
  
  Sound
  
  These guys always have the great music to go with their games. EA Trax gives you licensed music, 
 which comes from a wide variety of bands. The sound effects are also excellent in this game. From 
 nitrous sounds to the screeching of tires it's all in here. When you even upgrade your engine it 
 isn't the same, it actually sounds and feels like you did something under the hood.
  
  Overall
  
  A must buy for all types of gamers out there. If you are looking for a racer this 
 year or even a game that you can just pick up and have fun with, this is the title for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ilikemuffins000
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 2, 2006 7:07 am PT
Review:  Need for Speed: Most Wanted is an awesome game and a lot better than its predecessor. While NFS: 
 MW is a great game with an awesome storyline I would've liked to see a little bit more tuning. 
 In NFS: U2 tuning was the major thing and the game got a pretty good score. MW though lacks in 
 that position and some people might not like it. The game play though is terrific. The characters 
 and the storyline are top notch although (and maybe its just me) I would've liked to a lot more 
 cut scenes from the opening scene to the faithful race at the end.
  The graphics are awesome and the way that EA brought back the pursuits really gave it that extra 
 kick. Now I have the BLACK EDITION of the game. It's not much different except you just get another 
 challenge in the challenge series section. You get about 3-4 more cars to choose from and the lack 
 of cheat codes for the game gave it a solid defensive play against games like Vice City where there's 
 a cheat code here, there, and everywhere.
  The sound is incredible. EA did an excellent job recreating the noises for all of the cars and 
 the squealing of tires. What I liked most though is when you win a race you get to choose two freebies 
 from the list of upgrades you can add for your car and you can even go for the opponents pink slip 
 is he/she has a nice ride that caught your eye.
  Overall NFS: MW is the all awaited game in the never-ending series of NFS and the newest version 
 where EA has brought back the boys in blue.
  
  Rent or Buy
  I would rent and see if you like it then definitely buy it. The BLACK EDITION is the same price 
 for PC as the regular edition. Xbox is a different story though. Regular for Xbox - $30; BLACK 
 for Xbox- $50-$60 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agturboninja
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 1, 2006 7:52 pm PT
Review:  Solid addition to the franchise. Not as much customization, but it's not like you will use the 
 4 billion combinations. This is a lot better than NFS Underground 2 which was a sell out game.
 
  
  The layout of the city was nice. The highways is the best due to driving your cars to top speed 
 which is nice, cause mainly in racing games you can never get your car up to top speed.
  
  Good graphics, decent controls, the police chases are the best part of the game. It gets repetitive 
 by doing many events to get to the top. If you like the series of NFS, definately you should play 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paxtonra
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 1, 2006 4:07 pm PT
Review:  Absolutely fantastic! I used to despise racing games, and for the most part can still happily pass 
 most off as uninteresting and dull... NFS: MW changed my view on this forever!
  
  This isn't just a racing game... it's a game of tactics, money, monopolising the streets with you 
 best, baddest, fastest car, firing off NOS in grand sprays of flame... eat my dust doesn't come 
 close to the expression that will fly when you get into the swing of this baby!
  
  and talking of words flying, the air will most definitely turn purple as you try and evade the 
 cops, getting your rep up without loosing your wheels!!!
  
  This game is an absolute must! the graphics are superb! can't say I've notice much lag on loading 
 times, though lag online can be a total pain when it hits... when your blitzing in your Clayman 
 S at 194MPH and the images drop... even for just a few seconds... man! Do you feel the burn!!!
  
  Over all... obliterates all other games for sheer speed and addiction! just shy of a clean 10 
 due to capture scenes by the cops being too drawn out and no way to "escape" out of the movie so 
 you can get back into the action. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andilosha
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 30, 2006 9:28 am PT
Review:  This game is great, if in Need for Speed underground 2 it made no sense with no cut scenes, no 
 mission, and no goal, in other words: just running around, this game gives you fast emotions, the 
 cops are always at your back and it's nice to lose them, and progress through the blacklist. It 
 never blocks, the city is great, but some things are just too hard, for example when you get busted 
 (It happened about 5 times with me) it is really boring, I prefered to restart my PC than to wait 
 for the game to response. Load times are just too long. Movies and tracks are great and that's 
 all. If you like driving games this is what you'd always wanted, if not try Grand Threft Auto. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Khoo1992
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 28, 2006 8:51 am PT
Review:  EA long running Need For Speed series hits back with classic cop chasing, outrunning cops and mixed 
 with Underground culture. The game is is the best Need For Speed I ever seen before.
  
  The game is better than the console versions compared at the graphics. The cars paint reflects 
 lights when sunlights shines on it. The police cars' damages looks more realistic.
  
  The sound is also good. The sound effects of cars whooshing by, engine sounds like very powerful 
 V8 and V10 engines. The soundtrack has very good song especially Styles of Beyond and Avenged Sevenfold.
 
  
  Now the problems here why I can't give PC versions of Need For Speed Most Wanted rating higher 
 than console version. Because I get the PlayStation 2 version first. After I finish PlayStation 
 2 version, I only start PC version. I can't even suck into PC version even though the graphics 
 and sound is better
  
  Even I feel this version is boring, it is still a great game!!!!
  
  9.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: L0n3W01F
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 25, 2006 4:26 am PT
Review:  NFS: Most Wanted lives up the NFS name and brings amazing action and intensity.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Better Controls, High Speed Car Chases, 13 Smart Rivals to beat, huge city, tons 
 of races and more. What else do you want? Most Wanted won't be a disappointment even if your not 
 a fan of the series. The new slow-motion mode is pretty nice although you won't be using it a lot. 
 The Car Chases are the best thing about most wanted, you will just wish that the whole game should 
 be based only on police chases. You can dodge 'em, wreck 'em or annoy 'em its your choice hehe.
 
  
  Graphics:
  
  Much improved from the previous game although you will find it sad that it uses the same engine 
 but thats not so bad, EA has done a great job in the graphics this time you'll need a high end 
 graphics card to enjoy the intensity.
  
  Sound:
  
  The Sound Effects are amazing, very realistic (when volume turned slighty high :D) specially during 
 the car chases when the special "chase" music plays. There are other soundtracks but some suck 
 some don't it really depends upon your taste of music. Although im sure the music sequence during 
 the car chases won't disappoint you.
  
  Value:
  
  Its NFS, it got to have replay value? and yes it does. So you'll be playing this until the next 
 sequel comes up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: STEALTH5000
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 24, 2006 6:41 pm PT
Review:  The Need For Speed titles have always been great racing games. Most Wanted is no exception. Since 
 the Underground games, there hadn't been any cops around to get chased by them. Now, you'll experienced 
 all the fun that's being pursuited by the cops in your own cool car. Be careful though, if you 
 get "Busted", you'll be arrested and we'll have to pay for all the damage that you've made.
  
  The gameplay itself is really fun. You'll start off with a very cool BMW M3 GTR, which is the 
 coolest car of all in this game, and you'll have to race a couple of races until you get to meet 
 Razor, the "bad guy". You'll lose your cool ride, and you'll have to get it back by defeating the 
 other 14 opponents in the Blacklist. It can take you around 20+ hours to finish the campaign, but 
 it also has a great Multiplayer that you can play with up to 4 people. It's really fun, more if 
 you win. You can choose any car you have to use it in the race. The Free Roam it's a great thing. 
 You're allow to just drive around without getting into troubles. It's pretty cool, because you 
 can drive right by a cop and he won't stop you, as long as you're not going too fast, or hit his 
 car with or without intention. The cop chases can become really long. You really need to know the 
 whole map, which is huge. If you're just driving nowhere, you might end up getting yourself cornered. 
 It's kinda of frustrating when you have so much damages accumulated in your rap sheet, then all 
 the soddenly, you're busted, got to pay for it. This is the best game in the series of NFS (Need 
 For Speed) games, yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RIDDICK_2005
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 30, 2006 11:44 am PT
Review:  Need for Speed is a great series, I love the games. This game is a major step up in the series, 
 in my opinion. You've got licenced cars!, not to mention the car from 2Fast2Furious dude that cool. 
 I love the astin martin DB9, its a tank takes out anything.
  
  Although I loved the game there are some issues, The first degree cops: They should'nt be able 
 to keep up the a fully loaded car for some period of time then deside theres no point. Then when 
 you first buy a car , the car that you buy should not be able to burnout when you hit the gass. 
 The graphics are great but a little behind.
  
  I dont want to chew this game up because i loved it, it was fun and somtimes challenging, things 
 should just be a little more realistic. But you know what they shoud've done is leave that last 
 bidge scene open for when you are in a real bind with the cops and need an easy getaway. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Andreh_
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 16, 2006 2:12 pm PT
Review:  PS: Im portuguese i hope you understand what im writing
  
  Great now need for speed tuning series got damage and cops! 
  
  What i liked about this game 
 is the collection of cars... lots of wonderful cars but the collection would be better if there 
 was old cars like mini cooper S the old and the new one... and the mclaren F1.
  
  The graphics are very well done.... maybe too much effects...
  
  the sound... very good but 
 i liked more on the NFSU2.
  
  Is the best in the series but there is something that most wanted and need for speed series never 
 had. Realism...
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: crimson_serpent
Rating: 6.8
Date: Aug 16, 2006 8:01 am PT
Review:  I will first say that I actually liked the Underground games, as well as the original NFS and NFS 
 II, as well as NFS III Hot Pursuit. This game, however, is different. I found that the switch to 
 daytime made this sequel looked sloppy and washed out on the PS2, almost looks worse than Underground 
 2. Thankfully the great engine sounds and decent customizable soundtrack remain. The police portion 
 of gameplay is an awesome idea, but I found that more and more that it would feel like I was banging 
 my head against a brick wall as I would get to 28:06 minutes of the required 30 only to run over 
 a recently spawned spike strip, or that the cops were simply too stupid when I actually NEEDED 
 them to stay with me. So, yeah, good idea, poor execution. Another big disappointment was the level 
 of customization in the game. I know that not everyone wants to "trick out" their ride and frankly, 
 with the "special" body kits that were provided, I didn't either. It felt like this should have 
 either been left alone, or removed completely. Overall, yes this game was frustrating and yes many 
 things were cut (replays!) , but the game is still fun and if you're a really big fan of the NFS 
 series, you should at the very least rent this and try it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EntwineX
Rating: 7.7
Date: Aug 15, 2006 6:49 am PT
Review:  Like the title implies, in this version you in addition to winning races, also have to run from 
 the cops. And the races are in daytime, otherwise it's pretty similar to NFS Underground games.
 
  
  The gameplay is even more "arcade'ish" than before, the player's car is like a tank that blasts 
 through roadblocks and oncoming traffic, nitros reload very quickly, cars never break down ect. 
 Realism has no place in this game. 
  
  Things I don't like about this game are the lack of customization options for the cars, you unlock 
 parts as you progress in the game and just make sure your car has the most expensive parts available, 
 there isn't as much detailed tuning as in the Underground series, you can't change the lights of 
 the car or add neon lights ect. The paints, vinyls and spoilers are as before, and have even more 
 options than earlier versions, but still I would had wanted to see more.
  
  Also even tho the game has nice number of vehicles, their differences are mostly cosmetical, the 
 cars perform quite similarly to each other, and there aren't detailed specs available. MW is clearly 
 more about racing than building your dream car.
  
  The cops are an interesting addition, but take IMO too big role in the game, to be able to challenge 
 better drivers, you always need to achieve "milestones", meaning running from the cops for certain 
 time, crashing into them ect. Too bad the cops are stupid as hell, chances of them catching you 
 without a major mistake are very small, still the pursuits can get annoyingly long if you would 
 already want to stop playing, but you can't before you shake the cops and return to safehouse. 
 
  
  You can still roam the city freely but it's not as necessary as before, and that's good. You can 
 get into all the necessary races from the safehouse, and all parts are bought from one place so 
 you don't need to look for the shops for so long anymore. Too bad the game interface is awfull, 
 either because it's mostly designed for consoles or just because the devs felt lazy.
  
  Also the city is very boring and track desing is too simple. All the places look so much the same 
 that you get lost very quickly. The game lacks interesting surroundings, it's a step back from 
 the Underground series. 
  
  The difficulty level starts off very easy, but gets a lot harder towards the end, to make things 
 easier there is a slo-mo that you can activate, it works just like bullet time in Max Payne or 
 the slo-mo in FEAR. IMO that kind of thing should have no place in racing games, it looks nice 
 but is just plain stupid. Also the fact that you need to win every race makes tings harder and 
 a lot more frustrating, it's very annoying to make a mistake in the last corner of a long race 
 and having to restart the whole race because of that. I would had preferred if the races would 
 had involved more cars and positioning in the top3 would had been enough in the standard races.
 
  
  This time there is also a fairly interesting story involved, tho I'm not sure what to think of 
 the cutscenes, either they're unintentionally funny, or meant to be like that, I'm not sure which 
 option is the worse.
  
  The graphics are very nice, tho nothing astonishing compared to NFS U2 for e. g. Sounds are a bit 
 above average and the game seems fairly stable.
  
  If you liked the first NFS Underground, but felt that NFS U2 repeated it too much, you might as 
 well skip this game. But if you haven't played Undergrounds, this game is a good choise, especially 
 for PC players who don't have much choise in the sparse racing genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MIRAGE__basic
Rating: 7.2
Date: Aug 12, 2006 1:01 pm PT
Review:  I've been a long time fan of the Need for Speed franchise, which made this game an instant buy 
 for me. The game starts out overly easy and progresses to become very difficult. The races never 
 really get tough but the milestones can be quite challenging and frustrating. The graphics are 
 nice, gameplay is right on for the series. Cut-scenes are ok, the first time, get busted a few 
 times and you'll wish you could skip them. The car selection leaves a little to be desired, too 
 bad they just don't keep all the cars from the previous games and just add to them.
  
  All in all it's a decent game, worthy of playing through, although i found it more of a chore beating 
 then the previous games. Lets just hope carbon holds true to the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wassa786
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 10, 2006 8:19 pm PT
Review:  Astounding, to simply put it. The game makes me feel like there is a small blur between what I 
 see in reality and the game itself. The graphics, gameplay, all the new features... simply amazing. 
 But with everything good there is also something bad. To put it simply, NFS needs to SERIOUSLY 
 lose the circuit-ish tracks and let us roam in a city like they do in the midnight club series 
 or like midtown madness (a while back from microsoft) . If they let us do that, the game will have 
 so much more potential and there will be tons of new unique ways for us to race/drag/etc... The 
 point is, this is another amazing game from the NFS series but they are still lacking in the free-racing 
 mode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ig123
Rating: 7.3
Date: Aug 9, 2006 3:32 am PT
Review:  NFS MW or.. NFS Underground 3? Nothing really changed since UG2. Similiar city design, no night, 
 different cars, cops, a few new gamemodes, a few removed, little improved graphics, same physics. 
 That's it.
  
  Ther eis still no dash view, however there's a tiny bit visual damage.
  
  The cops are fun, but they are very unrealstic, they can go as fast as you, and their AI sucks. 
 The catch up is a very annyoing thing, too.
  
  The sound effects are amazing, especially the engine sounds. Gotta Love EA for this.
  
  Career 
 mode is fair. At the beginning it's damn slow. Cops never come, and if they do, they're easy to 
 lose. Getting 'Bounty' is very painful, however, as you progress it gets easier because you won't 
 be getting rid of cops that easily.
  
  But... it gets real boring after a while.
  
  If you liked Underground, you will like this. If you didn't, you should rent it and see if you 
 like it. I don't.. quite. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abdulrahiem
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 7, 2006 4:25 pm PT
Review:  NFSMW is an awesome game when it come to customizing cars and getting chased by the police. But 
 it is hard to keep monkey in the game and it takes a while before you unlock parts to upgade your 
 car. The game difficulty level changes a lot when you get up to number 3 and number 2. So you have 
 to be really good when it comes to getting away from the police. This game is not a beat it in 
 a day game. The game has a basic story a the begining because Razor is a guy who knows he cant 
 win agaist you so he sabotages your car to get it so he can win. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sNoWbLiNd89
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 6, 2006 5:03 am PT
Review:  First of all I have to say that the AI Catchup feature in MW is very annoying & some time's just 
 a bore?.
  
  The graphic's in MW is better than all the past games like NFSU2, NFSU1 so and so but it need's 
 a mid to high range GFX Card if you want to enjoy this game to the maX. The POLICEE... hmm yes 
 there back & better than ever but yet still sort of dumb sometimes, but its what makes MW fun, 
 the races do get a little boring after a while though. The music this time is rather dull IMO and 
 needs a bigger selection of music to listen to, but still it's good enough most the time.
  
  Tuning... This time you don't have much tuning options to choose from unlike NFSU2 but the 
 car selection make's up for it.
  
  At first most people may find it annoying to get us to becasue of the Rubber AI, Police & touchy 
 turning respones but after you give it about an hour or 2... maybe 3 depending on how fast you 
 get use to it I guess, then you'll start to enjoy it more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJ_Lae
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 31, 2006 5:56 pm PT
Review:  At first glance Most Wanted seems very similar to the Burnout series - 
  you've got your assortment of traffic, rival cars, boost, and exaggerated 
  blur that kicks in 
 at high speeds. Truthfully, the game appears to use the 
  same engine as Burnout 3 and Revenge and the way the cars handle is very similar once you get up 
 to speed. Is this a bad thing? Not at all.
  
  For one, this Need for Speed is a nice nod back to the older games, namely Hot Pursuit and its 
 sequel that featured police chases. It's also a very solid arcade racer with plenty of car customization 
 options and a dash of Grand Theft Auto freedom in the open city you can drive around as much as 
 you want.
  
  The game's main mode also has a plot, which others have stated elsewhere for no real gain - it's 
 nothing special. The cutscenes, however, are over-the-top in a hilariously campy sort of way, whether 
 it's the actors 
  enjoying their ridiculous lines or cars defying physics. The career mode 
  starts out with many 
 of these, but they eventually peter out and all you're 
  left with is Josie Maran dropping progressively more obvious plot hints 
  through voice messages. 
 Brought to you by Cingular and Burger King!
  
  To advance, you win races, meet challenges (usually of the police chase 
  variety, but there 
 are speed trap ones too) and accumulate bounty. Bounty is the numerical equivalent indicating how 
 much the police want to pull you 
  over, rip you out of your car, and pound your head in with nightsticks. The 
  higher it gets 
 the more into the chase they become and the more forces 
  appear to take you down.
  
  The car variety is good, and there are plenty of customization options. Even 
  with the exaggerated 
 physics (and how easy it is to squeal tires on launch) 
  it's easy to tell front wheel drive cars from all-wheel drive and rear-wheel 
  drive, or how 
 much they weigh, or what have you. If you want to outfit your 
  car in garish colours with tacky body mods, neon rims, and hood scoops (why, God, why?) , you're 
 free to. Creating something more tasteful is possible too even with some of the more elaborate 
 decals you can place. Limited performance modifications are available too, but most are locked 
 and they are almost prohibitively expensive given how little you earn in career mode.
  
  Challenge mode is similar to Career but you're assigned fixed cars for the 
  events. They all 
 contain the same types of races, though - circuit, which is 
  a number of laps around a closed loop; the variation knockout, which removes the last place racer 
 after each lap; sprint, which is an A to B race; speed trap, where your speed at marked intervals 
 is recorded and the most 
  accumulated wins; and toll booth, which is essentially a time trial with 
  gates that grant you 
 additional time. The others involve causing a certain 
  amount of damage or ramming police cars or roadblocks and then avoiding the pursuit. Those chases 
 are one of the best parts of Most Wanted.
  
  Occasionally you'll be spotted by police in a career race (not often) . If 
  they're still on 
 you by the end you'll have to avoid them before you can 
  jump back to your safehouse. Other times you can simply choose to start near a police station or 
 other location with a cop in order to initiate a chase 
  yourself. These grant bonuses and bounty and are a rush. At first the cops 
  simply tail you, 
 occasionally throwing comments out on the radio and calling for backup. Once in a while more show 
 up, and you might even hit a roadblock consisting of barricades and parked police cars. So you 
 do the obvious and ram it at full speed, knocking cars into the air. The chase escalates to level 
 two, then three. Unmarked cars show up. Then Cameros. Big SUVs attempting to ram you head-on. Larger 
 road-blocks. A helicopter. Spike strips. Corvette cops who try to pin you in and grind you to a 
 halt. If you can manage to avoid them, either through sheer driving skill or hitting a collapsable 
 building or structure (dubbed chase-breakers) to block the cops, a cooldown time pops up. As you 
 become more wanted, the cops take longer to call off the hunt for you, which necessitates running 
 for certain hiding locations that are marked on the map. All tucked away from prying eyes, they 
 will accelerate the timer and (hopefully) end the chase before a roaming police car spots you. 
 These moments are as satisfying as the rush of driving 150mph with police converging all over.
 
  
  Part of what makes the chases so fun is the score, which swells up in 
  particularly hectic chase moments and lends the whole experience a movie 
  chase feeling. When 
 not being chased the soundtrack mostly consists of rap - ignoring taste (or lack thereof) it's 
 suitable enough for the game, and the game smartly knocks the volume down a notch when you jam 
 the gas. So when idling, the music is louder, but when you squeal the tires and floor it around 
 a corner, the engine note takes over. And with good reason - the cars in the game sound incredible. 
 Realistic? Who knows. But they're all throaty, with satisfying turbo whines where appropriate and 
 slightly changed exhaust notes after upgrading. All manner of squeals and crunches and honks and 
 sirens are just as clean and - most importantly - loud.
  
  The graphics are nice too, if not as integral to the experience as the audio 
  and control itself. 
 Car models are superior to the surroundings and feature 
  plenty of polygons to avoid those low-res textured parts that many racing 
  games have (rims, 
 door handles, grilles, etc) . The roadside buildings and 
  trees aren't as nice, but you're travelling so fast most of the time you'll 
  barely notice, 
 particularly when the motion blur kicks in. One neat 
  additional subtle bonus is a slight colour shift to the entire view when you 
  move up a heat 
 level during a chase.
  
  Really, Need for Speed: Most Wanted is worth playing for the police chases 
  alone. It does feature 
 Burnout-style rubber-band AI that can be occasionally 
  frustrating, but solid driving will almost always keep you ahead of the pack 
  and the final 
 stretch seems to be in your favour most of the time. In other 
  words, expect to see many photo finishes with your car just sneaking ahead. The other annoyance 
 is the police's total incompetence early on, as some of the challenges can be difficult to accomplish 
 - many times you'll find yourself losing the police without intending to and have the cooldown 
 timer end the chase before you can tag enough cars or roadblocks. At higher levels this problem 
 goes away. Beyond that... the game is a heck of a lot of fun to play. Everyone rags on EA but beyond 
 a small list of minor complaints there isn't really anything wrong with this game. If you love 
 cars and don't mind racing games of the arcade variety you'll have a blast with Most Wanted. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Beckham
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 31, 2006 3:41 pm PT
Review:  Hmm what can i say about Need For Speed Most Wanted? I knew this game would be great sence all 
 the great times ive had with previous Need For Speed Games but now in this Need For Speed they 
 put you as a Street Racer that lost it all trying to work yourself back up the blacklist for respect 
 and to get back at the person who you lost your car from {Razor} To any uber gamer to a weekend 
 warrior they will instantly enjoy this game right away. When i first played this game i was very 
 much impressed with it. It seemed like a really easy game but once i got farther and farther it 
 got harder and harder. Yet there is no difficulty option to choose which makes a perfect game like 
 all of them should be. Throughout the game you will be tensed and thrilled with all the intense 
 racing. One mess up could mean the end! With its Need For Speed Underground Graphics blows you 
 away with its dinamic sound! The biggest twist of all they did in this game is they took the street 
 racing feel and mixed it with the old school cops and robber feel to blend in for a pure instant 
 classic. So grab your joypad or racing wheel and go get em!
  
  Recommened graphics card - any 2004-2006 AGP or PCI-E if your motherboard only supports PCI then 
 just get a ATI Radeon 9250 it runs the game smooth on medium detail {with 512-1Gig ram and a 2.0+ 
 Proccesor} 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gentazo
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 2, 2006 10:20 am PT
Review:  Is there a man who doesn't know the Need for speed series?
  Is there a gamer who has not heard the Electronic Arts?
  I daubted.
  Because this series are 
 cllasic and will never be forgotten.
  Why? If you ask that then you had never played a "Need for speed game"
  Am I right? Of course I 
 am right. Let's tallk about Need for speed most wanted. The game that became a cult. Or may be not 
 to sambody.
  For me Most wanted is the better racing game. At first I was amazed by the 
  graphics and visual effects of this game. Second there are super cars in the game. Just see the BMW 
 M3. Originally is made the rivals challenges. And some of them are really hard to complete.
  Personally I completed the game two times and I am ready for third.
  If you are not played it 
 what are you waiting for ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nisim2
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 27, 2006 11:03 pm PT
Review:       
    
     
  " - 
  " , 
     
   
    
     
     
     
     
    
    ,  
    
    
     
     
   
     
    
 ...    
    
     
    
     
    
     
  ,   
    
   
     
    
  2" '   
    
     
     
    
    
    
   ....
     
     
    
     
    
     
 
     
     
    
     
     
     
    
 
      
    
    
     
     
    
     
   .... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GohanSSJZ
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jul 23, 2006 3:41 pm PT
Review:  NFS Most Wanted has it all on the first sight, impressive graphics, big area to race in, and after 
 the last 2 NFS' we finally got other cars again.
  The new cars are without a doubt great, we get a couple of Porches, Mercedes', Lamborghini's and 
 some other nice cars. Still the biggest miss would be that there are no exotics, and basicly no 
 muscle cars, the only old muscle car is the Camaro which can only be used in 1 specific option, 
 and as a muscle car lover, this is definetly a downside for me. Also the only ricer i liked is 
 gone in this game, the Mitsubishi Eclipse, and yes i know there is still a Eclipse in the game, 
 but that car is so much different to the beloved Eclipse that was used in Underground 1 and 2 that 
 it shouldn't even be called a Eclipse.
  
  Graphics wise the game is amazing, and with a well designed world it's definetly a treat to race 
 in, ofcourse the PC requirements shows that, if you got a pretty new PC then it shouldn't be a 
 real problem (unless you bought a low end or outdated PC) , but if your PC is 2 years or older then 
 you can probably forget about running this game in a proper way.
  
  The Gameplay is where the problems are, i don't remember how far back this goes, but like with 
 NFS UG and UG2, catch-up is back, this must be the most horrible option ever, with this option 
 you can race a perfect race, make 1 mistake at the end and lose all your work, some races are very 
 hard to beat because 1 of the last few corners would be a really hard 1, which the computers seem 
 to do perfectly, and makes you lose the race.
  Still atleast in previous NFS' you could choose the diffeculty, but that aswell they have removed, 
 now i like to think of myself as a expierenced gamer, i been playing games since i was 6, and i 
 always beat my friends and family in games, still here it has gotten very frustrating for me.
 
  What's also very frustrating are the chases, at the beginning they are lots of fun, and well when 
 you get more after you it's fun aswell, untill you need to shake them, when you get to x5 it's 
 very hard to shake them, and due to milestones you have to reach during a chase (such as cost to 
 state which you build up by destroying things and police cars) you can easily lose about 20 minutes 
 of gameplay, and when you get caught you lose everything, and you need those points to build up 
 rep to compete in further races.
  Still untill you need to shake them they are really fun, you get to ram through roadblocks, ram 
 police cars untill they are destroyed, and with a lot of points where you can destroy something 
 and thus destroy the police cars behind you it's definetly fun.
  
  Another dissapointment in the game is the lack of customization, now i know this isn't a Underground, 
 still they did go around putting a lot of things in the game, but unfortunaly you can't essemble 
 your own body kit.
  
  Still all in all it's a good game, it will be good for many hours, you got nice graphics, and most 
 of the time the racing is excellent, it just can get quite frustrating from time to time, the only 
 cure against that is to take a break and continue later. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cannuck38
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 21, 2006 2:21 pm PT
Review:  The Need for Speed franchise has got to be one of the longest and most successful racing game series 
 ever. But although NFS Underground produced record breaking sales, many were dissapointed with 
 the fact that there was no cop chases. 
  
  Now, EA has decided to bring the game back to its roots by including cop chases back in the game 
 with a couple of extras. Basicly there really is nothing much different about Most Wanted and Underground 
 apart from the cop chases. You can still upgrade and customise your car but with a little less 
 equipment than Underground, and there is a simple storyline which sees you through the career mode.
 
  
  The story for the career mode is simple. Your the new kid on the block. You attract the attention 
 of a local street racing group. You end up racing a guy called Razor who challenges you to a race 
 and he wins by stuffin your car up and no matter how good you drive, you lose your BMW. To get 
 your car back, you need to challenge Razor again but he's Number 1 on the blacklist. In other words, 
 he's the Most Wanted right now. To challenge him you need to rise up the blacklist until you get 
 to Number 2, then you can race him and get your car back.
  
  But while your trying to get up the blacklist, a cop called Cross will be constantly on your trail, 
 trying to catch you whatever the cost.
  
  Overall the game is slightly difficult but isn't impossible. After you finish the career you can 
 also try out the Challenger series, which is just a series of races where you test your driving 
 skills in different areas. But after you've finished the Career and Challenger Series, the game 
 gets boring. Most Wanted isn't a game you want to play twice. But unlike its predecessors, NFS MW 
 has great sound.
  
  My advice is buy the game, (takes too long to finish if you rent it) but buy it when the price 
 has gone down considerably. That way you can enjoy the game and throw it away if you want to.
 
  
  Have fun playing! :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Valkyrie_44
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 14, 2006 3:03 pm PT
Review:  This is not a bad title when it all comes down to it. The game really slams on the pretty, has 
 a few good game modes, and has some really nice vehicular performers. The story is a little lame, 
 but at least you are dependant on repeated cut scenes.
  
  There are not too many negitives to speak of other than a rare crash to desktop, and a few network 
 issues.
  
  Graphically, I find the game is pretty, and the rain slick, and sun streaking reflections are the 
 eyecandy that propel this game. 
  
  Gameplay, is also really well done, racing is done well , but the cop car chases really put some 
 fun into it when you can juke, dodge and use what ever is on the road for your escape basically. 
 Just be careful about getting boxed in.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HAMODA
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 13, 2006 3:31 am PT
Review:  A good game to go with especially when you have a long holiday. Its graphics and sounds go well 
 with the storyline. The driving experience is very realistic. The blacklist, however, which I think 
 was a bit small and that I have no problem in finishing the career
  In less than 14 days. To improve on the game more, I suggest that EA should have a download site 
 for more cars and more races. Furthermore, the Specialties shop should include in the game to 
 improve it. Overall, I think that the game is good and definitely outperform the rest of the games 
 in Need for Speed Series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark-Messenger
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 12, 2006 10:36 pm PT
Review:  Boy goes to new city. Boy meets girl. Boy meets Razor. Razor steals boy car. The boy is pissed. 
 And that's how NFSMW starts off. You're a nameless driver who races underground to earn cash and 
 build your street cred as a driver in order to win your car back. While doing this, you slowly 
 move the the are what makes the differences from escape or behind bars. 
  
  They are usually marked on the radar, it's baically collapsing debris, and only works if the police 
 are right on your tail. The debris will cut down the number of cops chasing you, it depends on 
 how many were caught under the debris. Infractions will also rack up on your rap sheet and different 
 cars (it's not smart to always use the same car, but it can be reduced by changing the physical 
 appearance ) . It can be anything from speeding, to Excessive Speeding Property Damage, Ramming 
 a Police Vehicle, Driving Off Road, Resisting Arrest Hit and Run, and Reckless Driving.
  
  -Donn 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Robinvd
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 12, 2006 12:05 pm PT
Review:  This game gives the real deal.
  Cant really tell alot about so i'll speak my mind about the game.
  
  Graphcis:
  Nice graphics 
 but i prefer a other engine.
  But they are good.
  
  Sound:
  Good could be better.
  
  Gameplay:
  Super.
  The most fun about it is the Police.
  Had to much fun with it ^_^.
 
  
  Overall this game is great and a recommend to Car tune fans.
  Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun 
 Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun 
 Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun 
 Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun 
 Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun 
 Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun 
 Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun 
 Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun Fun 
  Cheers.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: smartass21
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 5, 2006 5:14 pm PT
Review:  Most wanted the most recent Nfs game so far .Great story line ,graphics and gameplay .
  Story line: In Most wanted you are a racer and you have to get to the number one spot .In the game 
 start movie you get the 2nd spot and challenge the 1st racer .You lose the race because you have 
 car problems .The other racer gets your car and you get to jail .You get out of jail and you have 
 to get the number 1 spot .You are not on the black list anymore .So you have to get 10 racers spot 
 .
  Gameplay: To race a black list racer you have to complete a few races .After you defeat a black 
 list racer you have to select some cards : unique upgrades ,pink slips ,get out of jail free .There 
 are some new types of races . 
  Graphics: The graphics are amazing almost look like real .The game works perfect at 1024x768 .
 
  So Nfs Most wanted is most wanted is the best game of this serie . 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sandpiper121PP
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 2, 2006 9:12 pm PT
Review:  How do you say... THIS GAME ROCKS!!! I personally found it to be the best Need For Speed game to 
 date! The game overall is just awesome both in graphics, sound, & storyline.
  First of all lets look at the Storyline. You are an out of towner comming in to do street racing 
 and avoid getting busted while working your way up the blacklist to the # 1 position. Sound like 
 fun but becomes very difficult as the game progresses. You are befriended by a girl names Mia and 
 a guy named Rog. They will help you in your quest to get to the #1 position and reclaim your car. 
 
  You have the option to just do free roam as well. Going about the city while being chased by the 
 cops for destroying property (Light poles, Bus Stops, Doughnut Shops, Cars and more!!!) make free 
 roam just plain fun to do. There is also the Challenge Series which features several different 
 types of races (Sprints, Toll Booth Challenges, Knockouts and more) that is separate from the game 
 so you can just go and play around some days and other days work on your progress in the Career 
 Mode. As you advance in the game you will acquire more money for races you run and things you do. 
 With the money you earn you can purchase new, faster cars! You also get to upgrade the parts on 
 them as well as paint them and change the total appearance of them to your liking. 
  Graphics... one word... WOW!!! I am just overwhelmed by the graphics in this game. The realism 
 of the city and countryside is just amazing. Texture and lighting is just outstanding. Everything 
 from shadows being cast off of the standard buildings to the reflections of the other buildings 
 and weather on the glass in the buildings. The cars also take on damage as you get hit if you turn 
 on that feature. Smoke from your tires to gas pumps igniting and smoldering up in the air to glass 
 being shattered and many many more awesome effects await you in this game! I personally love the 
 weather effects as it is not just your standard game that it is always sunny all of the time. You 
 can do the same race over and over and the weather will change in the beginning or in the middle 
 of it to a pouring rain shower. 
  The sound is as well awesome too! If you have a high end sound card you are in for a treat as you 
 will hear every little cry of the tires as you go around a corner at speeds well over 130 plus. 
 If you have sound surround you will hear the cops coming up behind you from a great distance as 
 well as the rev of your opponents cars too! I am running a Sound Blaster X-Fi and I can hear the 
 pitter patter of the rain as it hits the ground like I am standing right outside. I personally 
 love the Ford Gt. After getting it all decked out and and the high end parts on it... it sounds 
 just like Elanor in Gone in 60 Seconds when it idles and revs!
  In conclusion... this game is just simply the best as far as gameplay, graphics, & sound! Value 
 wise it is a little on the expensive side as it retails for about $49.95 but it is slowly comming 
 down in price. There are also two versions you can purchase. The standard and then the Black version. 
 The Black version comes with some additional cars right out of the box and a DVD of the making 
 of the game. I love that because you are getting more than just a game... but an actual feel for 
 what the developers went thru as they made it. If you don't already own this game... GO AND GET 
 IT!!! :)
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nascarnetboggy
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 2, 2006 5:28 pm PT
Review:  *Note: This review is for the Black Edition of Most Wanted, but many review aspects relate to the 
 normal game as well...*
  
  Last year marked the 10th anniversary of the Need For Speed series. The game has always focused 
 around driving at high speeds and avoiding cops. In 2003, the Need For Speed series took on a new 
 direction, stepping into the new culture of import tuning. While the Underground games were fun, 
 they lacked a staple element of the series, cops. Last year, EA Games took the racing back to the 
 daytime scene and combined the two best parts of the series. It brought back the cops from the 
 old "Hot Pursuit" series, and kept the new car customizing feature that we came to know and love 
 in the two recent Underground games. The Black Edition came with a few extras, such as a lovely 
 DVD with a few neat videos, and about 10 different bonus cars to race right out of the box. However, 
 even with great graphics, and the cops returning, it's best to pass up this edition of Need For 
 Speed...
  
  Gameplay: 7/10 - Need For Speed Most Wanted plays okay. Most of the elements, such as the gas, 
 brake, hand-brake, and boost buttons return here. The one new control element in this game is the 
 "Speedbreaker" move, where your car slips into a bullet-time like slo-mo move. The car is easier 
 to control, and it's a handy way of taking sharp turns and avoiding cops. The game regenerates 
 both boost and speedbreaker meters automatically, so there's no need for stylish driving like in 
 Underground 2. The cars also feel a bit lighter, which makes them generally easier to control. 
 This is a great fix, as I felt the past few games have had cars that are nearly impossible to control 
 at high speeds.... BUT, it still has the stupid unresponsive steering that has plagued the series 
 since 2002.
  
  With the cops returning this year, it has to be one of the most exciting features of this year's 
 game. The cops are a lot smarter than they were in 2002. They will team up on you, and will set 
 roadblocks and call for backup forces at the right times. The radio chatter is also done very well, 
 and they will do what they are saying they will do. Yes, the codes aren't the actual ones used 
 by real cops, but it still sounds cool. While the cops are a force to be reckoned with in Career 
 mode, they are completely absent in single race mode. This killed the game for me, as I was hoping 
 to use the 1969 Camaro (one of the bonus cars that came with the Black Edition) against the cops. 
 But for the most part, if you were excited about the cops returning, well... good! You should be!
 
  
  Career is the main mode in Most Wanted. For the first time in 10 years, Need For Speed has a story. 
 You're some young guy looking to go racing in "Rockport", and you get your ride stolen. With 30,000 
 in cash, it's up to you to get a car and go racing. Yep, not a very unique story, but an entertaining 
 one, as it is played out by live action cutscenes. The cutscenes aren't that great, but it still 
 helps develop the story... at the beginning at least. These scenes are almost non-existent later 
 on in the game. So, anyways, after loading up career and getting your ride taken from you, you 
 get a choice of about 3 cars to begin your career. A Chevy Cobalt? A Fiat? A Lexus? Wait, I thought 
 this was a game different from Underground! The game has 32 cars, but the more expensive ones (and 
 the ones you're most likely to want) have to be unlocked by playing through the game. By the time 
 you're halfway done, you'll be too attached to your Fiat to buy a Viper or a Corvette. Also, the 
 cars that come bonus with the black edition can't actually be bought in Career mode, which is pretty 
 lame. After buying a car, the game begins, and surprise! It's exactly like Underground 2! You have 
 to win races to earn a chance against racing the Boss Racers, and that's about it! The city is 
 a lot bigger this time around, but it's impossible to get around without consulting your map. This 
 is partially because of a warp-to-garage function that lets you jump to the races quicker without 
 racing around the city. And guess what! It's brought ti you by Cingular! The cops come in here 
 and there, but they're mostly to get your bounty and ratings up. The blacklist guys only want to 
 run against true bad guys. Your car also plays an important factor. Not changing parts often will 
 help the cops recognize you, and they will hunt you down as your bounty increases. Each new heat 
 level (which is attained by driving like a maniac) puts you against tougher cops in faster cars. 
 But while changing parts may sound easy, it's really not, thanks to the slim amount of money you 
 get from winning each race. As for the free-roaming world, it's really not that good at all. Once 
 the world opens up later on in Career, it's almost impossible to memorize each and every road, 
 and this leads to blind driving during police chases. Another thing, is that one area has more 
 emphasis put on it than the others. You'll find yourself racing more in Rosewood than all of the 
 other areas combined. In all, career is a big let down, and it doesn't help that some features 
 (such as some cars not being able to be used, no set difficulty) aren't in here...
  
  The other main mode in Most Wanted would be the Challenge Series. 69 different challenges await 
 you, such as avoiding cops for a certain amount of time, but they're just repeats of earlier ones 
 with different cars, which is a big letdown.
  
  There are 5 types of racing in Most Wanted. Circuit, Drag, Sprint, Lap Knockout, and the only new 
 one, Speed-Trap. For some reason, Toll Booth racing isn't in single race, even though it plays 
 a big part in Career. Another thing about single race, is that there is no free roam with cops, 
 unlike Career mode and Underground 2. Also, there is almost no variation in tracks. Almost all 
 of them take place in the small area you start in. I'd like a route creator next year, similar 
 to PGR 3's. So far, EA has left out a ton of features. That still leaves the customizing part as 
 good... right? Nope, EA took out a ton of parts, leaving just the basic full Body Kits, Spoilers, 
 Roof Scoops (honestly, who uses these???) , and hoods. The performance parts are still all there, 
 but there's only a few choices for vinyls, paints (a mouse glitch sometimes prevents you from choosing 
 the metallic and custom paint schemes) and decals. There are also a ton of cars missing from this 
 game to stop it from making an all-star cast. Ferarris, Nissans, and SUV's are all missing from 
 this years game. Honestly, how did a FIAT make it into here? For Online, it's not bad, but only 
 4 cars can race at one time, and the interface is very clunky. Yes, we all know disconnecting from 
 a lobby will help us lose all our progress, but do we have to be warned every time? Plus, there's 
 a lot of lag online, and cheating. Don't get me started on cheating...
  
  So, yes the cops are back and better than ever, but what about all the other stuff that we liked? 
 Guess we'll have to wait another year to finish this game of hide and seek...
  
  Graphics: 10/10 - Most Wanted is a beautiful game. They nailed the motion blur this year, and each 
 area of town looks like it should. The industrial section has a haze, and downtown looks like downtown. 
 The cars also look amazing, and have stunning paint schemes. Yes, there is a bit of slowdown during 
 chases, but it's such a good looking game, I'm just going to ignore that...
  
  Sound: 5/10 - Horrible sound! The music in this game is full of instrumentals, and most of the 
 songs are either hard rock or something emo. The cars sound okay, but there is no difference in 
 the engine after buying an upgrade. The cop chatter is about the only thing good about the sound...
 
  
  Final: 7.1/10.0 - Most Wanted isn't a bad game, it just isn't that fun beyond the cop chases. The 
 sound is bad, a lot of features are missing compared to past games in the series, and the fact 
 that almost half the cars aren't even able to take on the police in career mode just makes for 
 an empty game. If you haven't played the NFS series in a while, it's a good idea to pick this one 
 up. However, if you own both Underground games, it's best to let this one pass. There's just not 
 enough to keep it interesting... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Idiom
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 17, 2007 3:55 pm PT
Review:  This is the only racing game on the PC that I can actually say i've enjoyed, it just works.
  
  Graphics:
  Depends on what graphics card you have really, I've played this game on a Gforce440mx 
 ,a 5700U, a 6800, and a 7800GS but it only really comes alive on the 7800GS. You need quite a lot 
 of graphics processing power to get this baby ticking over at playable frame rate when the settings 
 are maxed.
  Suffice to say at its best it looks superb, check out the screen shots.
  
  Gameplay:
  There's a lot to do in NFSMW, its core is a free roam city map with different types 
 of races and challenges you can undertake. The goal is always to complete the requirements for 
 taking on the next racer on the black list which requires x number of race wins, x milestones completed 
 e. g. hit a certain speed going through a speed camera or run x number of police road blocks and 
 a certain bounty amount.. There is also a challenge mode separate from the main game that puts 
 you in a predefined car and sets you an objective to complete before you can move on to the next 
 challenge as well as user definable races and a simple multiplay mode.
  You can drive any of the dozens of cars in the game, you start off with some fairly boring low 
 powered cars but as you move up the black list you unlock more cars and upgrades.
  Each car can be customised to an astounding level of detail with body kits, rims, wings, scoops, 
 engine, turbo, transmission, tires, nitrous, decals, vinals, paints in thousands of possible combinations.
 
  The plot of the game is pretty comic, its executed fairly well and give you plenty of laughs with 
 some side splittingly kamp cut sceens. There are quite a few cars that I feel could of been included 
 in the game, there are infact no Ferrari's quite oddly and I would have liked to of seen the Nissan 
 350z and the TVR Tuscan but never mind, there are a good selection including lambos, porsches, 
 a corvette and a whole bunch of random cars like the Ford GT and the dodge Viper.
  
  There is one thing that stops me giving the game a 10/10 for gameplay and thats the catch up AI. 
 Basically to make the races fun and close the AI Cheats to give you the desired result. If you 
 get too far ahead of the AI cars in a race they will catch up no matter how blindingly well you're 
 driveing and no matter if you're driving a Ford GT and they're driving fiat puntos. Conversely 
 if the AI drivers get too far infront of you they will slow right down until you catch up, you 
 can actually see them slamming the brakes on sometimes for no reason other than to allow you to 
 catch up.
  No while this does make for fun races it also make for some rather silly results i. e. you can sit 
 on the start line for 20 seconds then drive off and still win the race, or you can dirve a much 
 better car then the other drivers get a big lead and them have them fly past you at some impossible 
 speed and win the race because the catchup mechanism has turbo charged them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matthijstol
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 29, 2006 1:09 pm PT
Review:  NFSMW is certainly one of the best racing games I have ever played, the graphics in the game are 
 really good especially if you can play the game with all the setting on maximum details. The new 
 and in my opinion best thing from this game is the whole police add-on, it stays fun to get into 
 a chase and than crash police cars, dodge spikestrips and smash through roadblocks. The only thing 
 that was quite a downpoint for me was that they really limited the tuning options compared to NFSU 
 and NFSU 2. But the amount of cars in the game is another plus because there are plenty of cars 
 to unlock and drive, and even better is that all the cars are once again licensed real versions 
 and not some fake modelled remake as you see in other racing games. The switch between driving 
 at night or at day is also a nice change. The tollbooth mode is quite fun and easy to do, just 
 drive from one point to another tollbooth within the time limit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RIP_
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 28, 2006 3:11 am PT
Review:  when i got the game first time ,it took a little time to know the main menu. It has a better gameplay 
 than need for speed underground and way better need for speed Underground but, still the main menu 
 of need for speed underground is easier to use .The best car for you to buy in the begining of 
 the game would be Lexus and after that buying a Mazda RX8 is better .When ever you beat a rival 
 allways chose the unknown markers .Chosing unknown markers wil mostly give a pinkslip for the rival 
 and a lots of cash .When wanna sell a car ,always first sell its body parts for extra money . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mjcarrington
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jun 26, 2006 2:54 am PT
Review:  EAs latest installment of the Need for Speed series is plagued with inconsistency but still manages 
 to create a relatively enjoyable experience. The game contains a fair amount of modes, including 
 a career mode (with amusing B-movie acting) . NFS also continues the direction of the Underground 
 series by allowing the driver to modify numerous internal and external aspects of the car. The 
 newest addition to the Need for Speed legacy also uses a heat system to track police interest 
 in your cars along with a much-advertised free-roaming city with different regions.
  
  From a purely graphical standpoint, NFS: Most Wanted is an extremely pleasing title. The models, 
 textures, and lighting effects all blend together to give the game a bright yet intense mood. The 
 modeling is pretty accurate and all of the cars appear exactly as you would see them in real life. 
 The textures are also pretty crisp and this title is by far one of the best looking driving titles 
 for the PC. Although the menus and various options counter the visuals with a gritty, street 
 feel, the majority of the game is filled with bright colors and over the top visuals. Speaking 
 of visual effects, the latest NFS seems to have grabbed a few tricks from the Burnout series; Need 
 for Speeds younger and significantly more stylish little brother. The game grabs the eyes with 
 blazing speed effects and a slow-motion ability. Beyond that, the environment is reasonably realistic, 
 although the architecture borders on mundane. The only issue graphically is the cars appear a bit 
 on the plastic side from certain angles when the light is shining directly on them. Furthermore, 
 the damage model for licensed cars on NFS: Most Wanted skims a dangerous line between all and none. 
 Your own vehicle can be scraped with a broken windshield, yet the effect stops there. This feature 
 merely reminds a viewer of how weak the destruction effects are in the title. All and all however, 
 the games visuals please and certainly push the viewer to a good sense of immersion.
  
  The audio of EAs latest Need for Speed title comes pretty close to perfection, yet slightly misses 
 the mark. The sound effects are superb, from the roaring of a Ford Mustang GT to the subtle scrape 
 of two cars sharing paint. The dialogue quality during the hybrid full-motion and rendered cut 
 scenes is clear, despite the b-movie delivery. The section where NFS: Most Wanted most clearly 
 misses its mark is during the soundtrack of normal driving. Besides the borderline trite chase 
 music, there is a varied soundtrack delivered by the oft-lamented EA Trax. EA Trax is, as always, 
 incredibly inconsistent. The music itself ranges from techno, to rap, to alternative of sorts. 
 The soundtrack is only consistent in the fact that none of it seems catchy enough to really keep 
 up with the slick pace of the driving and visuals. EAs commitment to providing different types 
 of music for racing titles is commendable, but stronger tracks with a quicker tempo and better 
 beat would have suited the driving action better. For what it is worth, the sound effects are superb 
 and the music varies from decent to ignorable.
  Gameplay is the clearly a problem with Most Wanted. Although a multiplayer mode, free race, and 
 pursuit mode are included, the majority of the game remains within the career mode. Career mode 
 really consists of a split between pursuit sections and racing sections, punctuated by the occasional 
 rival race. In this game, EA really seems hellbent on including too many racing types and features, 
 while losing sight of just making a really fun game. Whereas the street racing is varied and generally 
 a blast, the pursuit racing really degrades into an annoyance during the gameplay. The pursuits 
 are reasonably fun, but gaining the necessary points and hitting the goals requires way too much 
 random driving and waiting to get enough heat levels. Furthermore, the contrived heat system, 
 a method where your different cars gain police action more quickly and severely, seems to be mostly 
 about adding artificial difficulty. Speaking of difficulty, Most Wanted seems to have one of the 
 most lop-sided difficulty levels that I have experienced in quite some time. The rubber-banding 
 AI is only part of the overall problem; the sheer difficulty of some pursuit missions along with 
 easy racing sections creates a clear gameplay imbalance. Finally, the free-roaming nature of the 
 city is interesting from a conceptual standpoint, but becomes tiresome during the course of the 
 game. Getting to races can be time consuming and starting pursuits seems much easier from the garage 
 or during normal races. Luckily, the player can usually warp to the garage to start upcoming races 
 and challenges, so city roaming is mostly optional. 
  
  When looking at the overall package that NFS: Most Wanted offers, the game is likely to only absorb 
 2-3 weeks worth of time, or more in the region of a week for an experienced driver. The game presents 
 a huge amount of cars to customize but without compelling races and tracks, the selection is wasted. 
 The pursuit races and online mode may allow for additional gameplay time, but the pursuit mode 
 offers little incentive or reward, and the online mode is repetitive and largely generic. All and 
 all, I cant help but think at $50 or more, this game fails to provide an ideal buyer value. 
 
  
  As a whole, EA seems to have unclear goals concerning the direction of the Need for Speed series, 
 and this title reinforces that fact. The NFS series has always been known for arcade racing with 
 flair, while avoiding traffic and the occasional patrol car. When stripped down to the essentials, 
 the game is still fun while racing opponents and dodging traffic and police; everything else is 
 just filler. The cut scenes and story in the career mode do not hinder the overall enjoyment of 
 the game, but EAs efforts come off as misguided. A lot of the new touted features of this title 
 are questionable or somewhat useless, like the free-roaming city; whereas the opponent AI and racing 
 tracks could have used the extra work. The game is worth picking up for great, if not slightly 
 disappointing racing experience, assuming you arent looking for a revolutionary driving title. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zephyrwwong
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jun 15, 2006 5:11 pm PT
Review:  As the N4S series, the games always were made a lot of champions and cars to keep they can be play 
 longer, or play back as well.
  But the most wanted it's too hard for win the first place in the blacklist. As the cars grow better 
 than before, the controls are going harder, you can't even control them again after hitting something, 
 walls other cars even a barrle.
  That mades the game seems quite not possible to win.
  It's graphic is quite well, but it depends on your setting, you can even feel the real enviorment 
 in a racing. The sound become is needed, without the voices of the police you can't even know what's 
 their next steps, and the music are always so passional.
  From personal angles, the N4S Underground 2 is better than Most Wanted. But it can't play as long 
 as Most Wanted.
  Anyways, EA are always makes the game unexpexted, and sometimes fantastic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: squall8880
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 13, 2006 4:01 am PT
Review:  Need for Speed: Most Wanted is underground racing action so real, you almost smell the burnt asphalt. 
 The thrill of illicit street racing permeates the air - out-race rivals, evade cops and exploit 
 hundreds of miles of open road as gamers make their way up the Blacklist. Build up your street 
 cred and Rap Sheet with gripping, White knuckle, head-to-head races with the top Drivers on the 
 streets. Then pull daring, evasive moves to out-run and out-fox the cops that patrol the open road. 
 Strategic cop pursuit and skill-based evasion techniques for an all-new level of gameplay Extensive 
 visual customizations are available, whether you want to lose the cops or just pimp out your ride.
 
  
  * Race Online! Need For Speed Most Wanted features online play.
  * Open Road, Open World: Rule the streets as the most notorious street racer in various regions 
 that include edgy industrial and urban environments.
  * All-New Gameplay: Need for Speed Most Wanted features new and exciting gameplay that incorporates 
 strategic cop pursuit and skill-based evasion techniques with illicit street racing.
  * Visual Customization: Whether gamers are trying to lose the cops or they just want to pimp their 
 ride, Need for Speed Most Wanted offers extensive visual customizations.
  * Blacklist: As players enter the world of illicit street racing, they must go up against the best 
 street racers on the scene to earn respect and rise to the top of the Blacklist. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: apekelala
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 11, 2006 10:54 pm PT
Review:  Most Wanted is the best racing game i played so far. If they can add real racing circuit plus some 
 off road racing and total car modification then it will be the best racing game ever made. With 
 32 cars that can be tuned and do modification make this game fun to play. I spent hours to tuned 
 and mod all my cars. If they add more cars like from old to modern.. that will make this game more 
 interesting and make me spent more hours to mod and tune my cars. Game play is great when you in 
 race and get chase by police car. Graphic detail of your cars are really great plus different sound 
 of your cars before mod.. after mod and at different place. Music are cool. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Marcin043
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 7, 2006 12:46 pm PT
Review:  Ok so Need for Speed Most Wanted is i think the best game from all parts of NFS. MW got all new 
 graphic like specular bloom effect that look really great in that game. 32 cars thats not bad but 
 remmember that all that cars can be tunned. The police in MW mmmm i love them they are pretty slow 
 but when u are chasing by 30 cops u should really enjoy game. And u really should enjoy it cuz 
 next version of NFS could NOT be realese for PC. I hope they are gonna do one for PC cuz i dont 
 think i can play 2 years in MW and w8 for another NFS to realese. If i were i i'd buy MW cuz that 
 game is really good it got great music , graphic and sounds of car. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hiphopfreak
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 6, 2006 7:27 am PT
Review:  good game,, great graphics, g00d gameplay,, but after a while it gets an little annoying,, more 
 of the same,, i think they could do better but,, after all its still an very good game. it aint 
 very catchy like guildwars !! or WOW, but its still singleplayer i did like the game,, and i think 
 its worth it to buy,, sow grap ur money and spend it on need for speed most wanted,, but one tip,, 
 if u want to play like cars,, and have an good computer for the ultimate graphics!! :P ,, an 8 
 is an g00d mark for this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jefvhees_basic
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 5, 2006 9:52 am PT
Review:  Awsome police chases and thrilling races... No need to say more.
  But hey, its a revieuw!
  
  Gameplay: Verry solid racing mixed with car chases. Some new types of races but then they lost 
 some too. Wich is to bad. The car modification isn't wat it should be. You can't chouse different 
 bumpers and stuff like that. Thats really a shame.
  
  Graphics: Verry nice! The entire city is verry diverse and nicley textured. The light effects are 
 sometimes disturbing when racing fast.
  
  And so on and so on.
  The sound is nice to. Some nice roaring engines and a nice soundtrack, wich is a mix of some light 
 techno to metal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PimpinE
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jun 3, 2006 10:26 pm PT
Review:  In this need for speed, the cops are smarter, they have better ideas, it's more uniqe, and more 
 fun. Although this game is tight, some things aren't good. Cops observe your moves if you do them 
 a lot. Also, your cars could get impounded. But, you could buy them out if you have enough money. 
 I love to make new cars every chance i get. When i get new cars i test them in quick race. When 
 you get a manual car DO NOT blow your engine. When you win a car and the police are after it they 
 will still search for them so be careful. If you see a cop drive normal well try to at least. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Axiom2k
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jun 3, 2006 4:44 am PT
Review:  While at every angle, another Need for Speed was obviously going to happen, and for those like 
 I that enjoy the series will not be disappointed, in the newest installment. In this NFS you are 
 once again pinned in a situation in which you must face the top racer in a means to climb the "blacklist", 
 a popularity and skill ladder giving you the chance to take a rivals vehicles as you become number 
 one.
  
  The blacklist rivals you face are a challenge much as always, and what will cause more pain will 
 be the police. The police get calls from peds telling of races you are in and show up to intervene. 
 The only downside to this is the police AI. At times you will find yourself in last place in a 
 race, or even second to last, and yet the officers can't help but find you in the fray of racers 
 destroying the streets. On top of that, they are easily tricked into running into a wall and simply 
 sitting there. It is possible to destroy vehicles, but at times you haven't had time to, before 
 an officer has hit a wall like a blind man in a closet.
  
  The races and storyline soon make up for the ill minded officers as you are once again treated 
 to an artistic array of cgi/art. You will find yourself avoiding cops more than playing the actuall 
 career mode races, to gain points and eventually gain the more "difficult" officers driving massive 
 SUV's and such.
  
  Lastly, the music...
  For some unknown reason, it seemed as if there were only three songs on the well known "EA Trax" 
 list. You soon after playing begin to play your Media Player or Winamp in the background and mute 
 the game, the music is more than repetitive.
  
  The only thing to worry about in this game are the stupid cops and the monotonous music. Other 
 than that, prepare for some excellent races, awesome plotlne, and of course, a hot woman to guide 
 you through. Unfortunately EA can never decide on which additions to a game are useful ones. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordgames123
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 2, 2006 1:03 pm PT
Review:  A hot hot game, A "Most Wanted" title for every gamer. 
  Every non gamer in my area, every guy who hasn't even seen video games and all those dudes in town 
 know about Most Wanted now. It was a race between me and my friend to finish the game. And to tell 
 the truth we won the battle. THIS GAME HAS REACHED A LOT OF MINDS. 
  
  The graphics in this game is really nice. I liked the new color pattern of the game. Pretty good 
 detail + the sounds in the game really roxx. All those tracks EA has put in ad fascination to the 
 game. Game play is rocking, the cop chases a are great as every one expected it to be. Races are 
 cool, and we surely expected some new races modes this time. Upgrades are dead this time, you can't 
 even update you car as if in UG2. AND NO DAMAGE THIS TIME EVEN????, NO HORN??? WHAT ON EARTH IS 
 EA BEEN DOING???. All those factors bring down the reality of the game and also pull down the reputation 
 a lot. Hope the next game will have althose.
  
  Overall I'm kinda impressed with this game. And is the MOST WANTED title for all kinds of gamers. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cybotfactor
Rating: 10
Date: May 31, 2006 12:59 am PT
Review:  A good game to go with especially when you have a long holiday. Its graphics and sounds go well 
 with the storyline. The driving experience is very realistic. The blacklist, however, which I think 
 was a bit small and that I have no problem in finishing the career
  In less than 14 days. To improve on the game more, I suggest that EA should have a download site 
 for more cars and more races. Furthermore, the Specialties shop should include in the game to 
 improve it. Overall, I think that the game is good and definitely outperform the rest of the games 
 in Need for Speed Series.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattydienhoff
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 14, 2006 8:45 am PT
Review:  Need for Speed is a long running series there's no doubt about it, the biggest player in the arcade 
 racing genre for years now. It made a bit of a push into the realistic side of the spectrum with 
 NFS: PU but it didn't take long to return to it's arcadey roots, and Most Wanted is no exception 
 to this. 
  
  Most Wanted starts out simple enough, you're a new racer starting out in Rockport city, the street 
 racing syndicate around Rockport runs on a system known as the blacklist, a list of the fifteen 
 most notorious street racers. When you start you're not even on it, you must challenge the member 
 at #15, "Razor". (of course, in games like these no one has normal names like Frank or John, they 
 need something "scary") , but Razor and his gang sabotage your car, you lose the race and your car, 
 and so starts a storyline of working your way up from nothing with a new car to get revenge on 
 Razor with the help of some chick called Mia and another street racer by the name of Rog.
  
  Most of the story is told through Voicemail messages and FMV cutscenes with real actors. I've 
 heard people praising Josie Maran's role here but to be honest, I found her acting to be lacklusture, 
 she seemed to be reading her lines in a monotone rather than saying them, I wasn't impressed -- 
 to say the least. The rest of them aren't any better, and the dialogue is ridiculously over-done 
 in the slang department. Luckily, the cutscenes can be skipped with little loss as there's not 
 much useful information in them that you can't get by other means.
  
  The graphics are the next point, they look great if you have a decent system, but they seem to 
 be a little underoptimized on the PC, I can run Half-Life 2 with everything on high and get 50FPS 
 (at 1280x1024) , but I have to keep Most Wanted at 1024x768 or else turn every other option off 
 or down. In short, it looks great, but it could have been more streamlined. The cars are of course, 
 beautiful, according to the "making of" video, the developers laser-scanned the real cars to get 
 the curves right.
  
  Gameplay, the racing is fun at first but really does get lacklusture after a while, the different 
 types of races help mix it up a bit but they all have the same overall premise, get from one point 
 to another fastest and\or in the quickest time. The cars' handling is decent enough, but as is 
 the norm for NFS games is somewhat unrealistic and arcadish, weight seems exaggerated and in most 
 cars, you can't even get off from a standing start immediately, it skids around for a few seconds 
 before the wheels "catch", sometimes even spinning around in circles unless you steer them in the 
 right direction. Which is sometimes impossible when surrounded by police.
  Car customisation is pretty good, but is a step backwards from NFSU2, the huge creative potential 
 of vinyl layering is gone, and you can't combine different bumpers and side skirts, they come in 
 packages all together, if you like the front bumper but the back bumper drives you crazy, too bad. 
 Also, you may find yourself thinking upgrades worsen the look of the more exotic cars rather than 
 improve them, sometimes it's best not to mess with beauty.
  
  The police pursuits are the very best part of Most Wanted, when you start out the cops just follow 
 you, and try to block you in if you stop, their main aim is to prevent you from damaging anything. 
 But as your heat level goes up the police get more and more aggressive, to the point of ramming 
 you relentlessly and showing up in ever increasing number, it's possible to be chased by 20 police 
 cars at once. And the cops use some interesting tactics, it's fascinating to watch how the officers' 
 radio chatter (extremely well done, this is one of my favourite aspects of the entire game) corresponds 
 with their maneuver, they'll attempt the P. I. T. Maneuver (spinning you out) , the rolling road block 
 (surrounding you with police cars on all sides and then slowing down together, allowing you no 
 hope of escape) , spike strips, road blocks, and more. It truly is an amazing experience to, after 
 weaving in and out of traffic and knocking one of the pursuing police cars off the road, hear a 
 panicked police officer saying over the radio in between static, "H -- He just hit us!", the police 
 chatter is very professional and the voice actors do a very good job in this regard, the police 
 discuss the strategies they plan to use against you, make status reports and call for backup when 
 they're short handed and you get to listen in to all of it. (of course they don't know that, I 
 even heard one of them calling me a moron)
  
  The game world consists of Rockport City, Rosewood (Residential) and Coastal, and even though it 
 is large and well-detailed, but it's quite obviously designed to be one big race track with picket 
 fences, parks, squares, plenty of traffic and lots of objects to destroy. The amount of CARnage 
 (pun-intended) you can cause is very much more like a first person shooter than a racing game, 
 you can knock down balconies, water towers and the like, and knock over, smash or otherwise destroy 
 parked cars, boxes, signs, construction works, a drive-in theater screen and lots more, all of 
 this is quite impressive on screen, (But they have to stop somewhere and so there are no pedestrians.) 
 and the game even counts how much damage you cause in a pursuit, expect to cause $200,000 worth 
 of damage in some of the later pursuits.
  
  Of course, with all of the aforementioned collapsing debris, physics play a bigger part than usual 
 for a racing game, most objects act pretty realistically but the physics for cars are a bit off, 
 if you ram a traffic car from behind while going up a hill, it will fly over the crest of the hill 
 and stay airborne for multiple seconds (almost as if damaged traffic have built-in anti gravity 
 devices that enable in a collision) , while police cars and your car are heavier than you'd expect. 
 If you flip your car over it almost never stays on it's roof, (the wheels seem magnetized to the 
 road) and if you hit walls at an angle you just glide along them with minimal damage. Very few 
 objects will actually stop you, and you can smash through roadblocks with comparative ease and 
 little damage.
  
  Summary:
  Need for Speed Most Wanted is a arcade-racing game, it has a large environment, a lot of great 
 looking cars, great graphics and sound and lots of hollywood-style big bang police chases. But 
 the story is only there because it has to be and the acting in the cutscenes is nothing special. 
 And I think you'll find the racing itself (which, face it, is the basis for all "Racing" games) 
 is lacking, and there's only so many 2-lap circuit races against opponents who take corners faster 
 than you no matter what car they're driving you can take before it gets old.
  
  For the record I didn't intend to cover ALL of the factors here (for "how are the controls?" etc. 
 questions see the Gamespot review)
  
  Pros:
  -Exciting police chases
  -Great Graphics
  -Sound, especially police radio chatter, is very well done
  
  Cons:
  -Iffy 
 handling\physics in some places
  -The story is nothing special and the voice acting in cutscenes is weak
  -Later races are only 
 challenging because of auto-balancing techniques like performance matching and "catch up" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blacktigern
Rating: 10
Date: May 28, 2006 7:56 am PT
Review:  the game is perfect because it has too many new features.
  especially for the pursuit part and the huge choice for the cars
  and we can't forget the graphics 
 and the improvements to make the game 
  looks perfect with a very good performance. about the game play its just the game that i was looking 
 for it. this game offers the best method to have fun.
  the spike strip in this game is the players nightmare because sometimes 
  you will lose because 
 of it. about upgrading the performance parts it needs to more realistic which means it must be 
 more specific to let the player know about the cars and these staff so the game will be more interesting 
 and it will be more enjoyable.
  enjoy this game and your times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gugi_nayar
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 24, 2006 1:08 pm PT
Review:  Need For Speed: Most Wanted - even the title is enough is to get the adrenaline flowing, imagine 
 the state when u're actually playing it. Experienced players will agree that this game is by far 
 the best racing game EA's come up with yet. So now lets get into the depths a little.
  
  NFS: MW is yet another illegal street racing game but the best thing in its favour is that its not 
 repetitive. It doesn't just repeat the previous games with better graphics, as we've seen many 
 developers doing, its a fully innovative game. EA has done a great job and raised the bar by a 
 fair few notches. 
  
  You're a newcomer to the Rockport metropolis and before you know it you run into Razor Callahan 
 and what follows is a sabotage which dumps u down at the bottom of the Blacklist and him at the 
 top. But, being the die hard racer you are, you want revenge and thats teh basic story of the game. 
 As u'll have come to know by now the storyline is very interesting and the sometimes-hilarious 
 cutscenes are a treat to watch. Enough with the story and onto the gaming details.
  
  There are 4 game modes.
  Career, which takes you through the storyline and here's where you'll 
 be able to work your way up the Blacklist and show the others who's boss ;) . Tonnes to do in this 
 mode. You'll engage in multilap circuit races, point-A-to-point-B sprint races, drag racing, checkpoint-driven 
 tollbooth races, and speed trap, where the winner is the player that accumulates the most speed 
 while passing by a handful of radar cameras spread throughout the track. 
  Quick race, which as the name suggest gives you instant action.
  Challenges, where u have to fulfill 
 certain mission objectives and 
  Online play were you play head to head with other races from around the globe.
  
  The graphic 
 detailing is amazing. The city's different parts add variety to the game. Not to forget, accessories 
 for your vehicle can make it the baddest machine this side of the pc. The overall gameplay is quite 
 satisfying. The sound for this game is brilliant with engine noises changing on the type of car 
 u're using and the upgrades u've installed. The game uses quite a bit of voice acting in the story, 
 which is also very good.
  
  Whats an illegal street racing game without cops eh. The cops for this game are the smartest of 
 their kind. They'll use every trick in the book to nail you such as roadblocks, spike strips and 
 so on. Even the cop sounds are unique for this game. They really sound way more authentic then 
 their predecessors and with enough practice you'll be able to decode them to figure out what they're 
 planning against you. The cop chases are of course the main point of this game and they can be 
 quite unpredictable at times. Like u can be chased by just 1-2 for one race but if u give it a 
 go again its very much possible that the whole force is after you with dozens chasing you on road 
 and the helicopter flying above monitoring your every move.
  
  To sum it up, its a great game, the best of its genre and a must-play for all. Go ahead and play 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sanjay856
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 14, 2006 8:46 am PT
Review:  Every non gamer in my area, every guy who hasn't even seen video games and all those dudes in town 
 know about Most Wanted now. It was a race between me and my friend to finish the game. And to tell 
 the truth we won the battle. THIS GAME HAS REACHED A LOT OF MINDS. 
  
  The graphics in this game is really nice. I liked the new color pattern of the game. Pretty good 
 detail + the sounds in the game really roxx. All those tracks EA has put in ad fascination to the 
 game. Game play is rocking, the cop chases a are great as every one expected it to be. Races are 
 cool, and we surely expected some new races modes this time. Upgrades are dead this time, you can't 
 even update you car as if in UG2. AND NO DAMAGE THIS TIME EVEN????, NO HORN??? WHAT ON EARTH IS 
 EA BEEN DOING???. All those factors bring down the reality of the game and also pull down the reputation 
 a lot. Hope the next game will have althose.
  
  Overall I'm kinda impressed with this game. And is the MOST WANTED title for all kinds of gamers. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mgs3_solidsnake
Rating: 7
Date: May 12, 2006 1:15 pm PT
Review:  this game has a great storyline and gameplay, and the graphics are like no other. super cool....... and 
 can say the best driving game in terms of graphics, gameplay, and the selection of cars......... not 
 to mention all the modifications. 
  the game starts at an easy level and gradually grows harder. very realistic,
  and to spice things 
 up,.. its got other missions which need to be completed to race with the next rival. and the idea 
 of rap sheet was pretty neat.
  I v been playing the need for speed series since need for speed 2, and i really enjoyed need for 
 speed 3 hot pursuit. the pursuits were great and i was really good with the class A cars. 
  need for speed underground 1 and 2 were great with car modifications, including body neon and other 
 great stuff- hydrualics were great.
  but i still hav one guestion.............. WHAT happened to split screen, the PS 2 version has got 
 it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ron_stoppablE
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 11, 2006 4:46 am PT
Review:  First, let me rant about how good Need for Speed Most Wanted is. HELLOOOOO!! Can you say cop chases?? 
 And even better cars than before?! Are you stupid enough not to get this game?!?!
  
  And now back to our scheduled review.
  
  Need for Speed has been around for a while, and it's 
 getting more and more successful thanks to Electronic Arts. What better way to rule the streets 
 than to race just like how they do it in Fast and the Furious?
  
  The graphics are BEAUTIFUL. Especially for the cutscenes. Does the use of real actors really slate 
 Need for Speed for a movie? We just have to wait.
  Anywho, every single feature in NFSMW has been graphically improved extraordinarily. From every 
 inch of road you drive on to the surroundings you pass by. But you wouldn't have time to notice 
 those things because you're too busy focusing on the ROAD!
  
  Let's get down to the gameplay aspect. It is incredibly stunning. And fast-paced. Although with 
 a little tweaked and a little dodgy controlling here and there, you will definitely feel like the 
 average American should be (No insults here. I'm Singaporean) . Driving down the lane at 200km/h
 
  until you either stop and/or crash.
  
  Finally, we give a low-down of the music. It is AMAZING to the power of infinity. From the sounds 
 of Lupe Fiasco to the head-banging sounds of Styles of Beyond, the NFS series never fails to deliver 
 cool sounds to the game. Example is NFSU's playlist included Asian Dub Foundation's Fortress Europe. 
 HOORAY FOR ASIA!
  
  Overall, this game is COOL. Okay, i need to study now. TILL NEXT TIME!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skidoo50
Rating: 7
Date: May 7, 2006 5:28 am PT
Review:  god thats very very bad when a vw passes you when you haves a friken camery s sham on you!.    
                                .                                                 .       ..   . 
   .       .  . .       .                                                                       
              .  oibne gnvfldmbdfmsmlfboih s dgdbvndvccvn gf nfnnfgutjgvntyhn yr fy ty j yjry j 
 ry j jdjdnj dfgiorgkdfi idokrgldsldifgnmir g bioi ioerioj tio t ioiojioi mn m m tvbrm bm, t, m trn 
 tjmr nbttrrjmm, mktrmtfitgftfg 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vampiro_HuntT3R
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 6, 2006 7:38 am PT
Review:  I used to play NFS II alot. It was a good game of its time but then I played NFS 5 and... erm... yeah 
 it was good as well but Underground was surprisingly good and so was Underground 2... Underground 
 2 had free roaming , which was superb and the only thing for which Underground was popular but 
 lack of Videos. But then Most Wanted came out with some great sort of videos and cop chases. 
 
  The game is really good. The cop chases and some of the Races are very amazing. I love to have 
 cops on tail. Using turbos and then using Handbrakes makes a good team... lol... while having Cops 
 on tail. I love this game. It has great graphics as well as sound effects. Its a very good game. 
 I think everyone should try it out because it really deserved to be played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soniworks
Rating: 7.1
Date: May 4, 2006 5:58 am PT
Review:  First thing you realise is... the game has very good graphics, the cars are great and so is the 
 enviroment, but the game would be so much better if it had the Underground 2 fill with the Most 
 Wanted graphics. The gameplay gets repedative since you can't choose much to upgrade, taking packages 
 is boaring, I'd rather choose parts my self, and don't get me started on tuning the looks of the 
 car, you can't even put neons and the body kits are so limited. So this game is like... been there 
 done that. Oh and yeah... one more thing, EA!!! Please stop making the "catch up" system it's so 
 ******* anoying. They cars get behind me like 3000 meters and after one minute of perfect driving 
 they are behind my back. EEEEEK!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nt-Jerk
Rating: 8
Date: May 3, 2006 3:57 am PT
Review:  I have almost played all the games in the Need for Speed series, and completed quite many of them. 
 But this last one was simply revolutionary. Now it is not only about racing, but actually avoiding 
 the cops in the city. And running away from them by all means. I completed the game after playing 
 it for a couple of hours every day for a week and I was really impressed. 
  
  The thing I loved the most, was finding a cop, getting him to follow and leading him/them out onto 
 the highway. The guide in the game warned us all, never to take a chase to the highway, as the 
 police always used roadblocks and stinger spikes there, but what the **** I love the excitement. 
 I never got enough of the never-ending chases. I always looked forward to getting a new level of 
 cops on my ass. There was no fun in it, until you got to lvl 3 cops - meaning cool cops, roadblocks 
 and spikes. It's all about avoiding the spikes, because or else, you're finished for. You won't 
 be able to drive for more than 2 minutes, then you stop, and you are caught. You also have to know 
 where to hit the cars in a roadblock.. If you hit them on the front, you hit the engine and the 
 car will only move a little.. But hit it in the back, and it will fly, like a bomb has just been 
 detonated under it.
  
  It is a real great game, with great graphics and nice music while driving.. The story is great 
 as well, as you will have to become better to challenge the man who fixed your car before a pink 
 slip race. The mission is to get your car back, and get the hell out of town afterwards..
  
  Have fun with this game.. It is the best of all the NFS's.. Looking forward for the next....
 
  
  //Nt-Jerk 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neerajkumar_4
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 2, 2006 1:43 pm PT
Review:  NFS: Most Wanted:
  
  By,
  Scorpio_gamer a. k. a Neerajkumar_4
  
  Introduction:-
  
  An amazing game with super fast cars and high speed illegal racing & police chases! Well Ill jus 
 tell a bit about the game. You'll have to beat 15 guys who are know as black list number racers 
 to be the Most Wanted Racer of Rockport City. The game has awesome cut scenes! 
  
  Gameplay:-
  
  The gameplay is a bit tough. The Career mode has a superb story-line. The racing 
 of black list members also its a bit easy! ya but only BIT :) ! Here are the types of races in 
 the game! 
  
  1. Circuit
  2. Drag
  3. Sprint
  4. Speed Trap
  5. Toll booth races
  
  Working your way up the Blacklist is a multi-step progress. Before you can challenge the next 
 Blacklist racer, you have to satisfy there requirements. You'll have to win a set number of race 
 events. And you'll have to reach a set number of pursuit milestones and earn enough bounty by kicking 
 the police. As the heat level increases the Cops are more aggressive and many cops bring Heavy 
 Vehicles and Choppers are on your tail
  
  This game has many cars and other stuff to unlock. The upgrades are really gud; modify your favorite 
 car as you want it. You can even tune your car. There is another new feature in the game. You have 
 something called TIME SLOW DOWN a. k. a Speed Breaker where you have full control of your car but 
 you are on ur breaks so you have to use it wisely! You have to use your N2O (Nitrous Oxide) wisely. 
 Then you have to use a bit of strategy when evading high heat level cops. You'll have to find the 
 hiding spots to cool down the meter after the Evade meter fills up.
  
  Graphics:-
  
  The graphics are mind blowing for the character models but i wonder how I should compare it with 
 other games its jus different!! But its 
  Freaky. The cut scenes are a bit realistic. The cars look S**y, the cars are jus beautiful but 
 the world detail is low, its jus not that real. There are graphical flaws buy not many.
  
  Sound:-
  
  The music tracks make the game more interesting. They are really good. Then the 
 voice acting is flawless. The cars sound real. The game music and sounds give u a WoW feeling!! 
 :)
  
  Conclusion:-
  
  Okay! Ive told enough about the game and you can go and check it out ! But one warning the game 
 can be real frustrating coz of the tough races (jus needs practice) and GLITCHES. So be careful. 
 This is my first proper racing game that i completed and actually played for months. I used to 
 hate racing games but after watching 2 Fast and 2 Furious i wanted to play this game and i loved 
 it. :) 
  
  Graphics - 8/10
  
  Sound- 9/10
  
  Gameplay- 8/10
  
  Story-Line- 10/10
  
  Replay Value: 9/10
  
  Overall- 8/10
  
  
 
  Scorpio_gamer:- Remember there is NO such thing as GAME OVER!!
  So keep GAMING.!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Danny_Bullit
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 28, 2006 3:36 pm PT
Review:  I would choose this game without any doubt to enjoyment. I suppose this game is the best car racing 
 game ever made. The purpose why I say that, because from the beginning to its just seems so cool 
 and bold with underground life style and shows truly what happens in night streets of whole big 
 cities. Graphic of the game is the revolutionary pass the present game graphic with it environment 
 and the well-designed cars. 
  Of course developers didnt just stop on the graphic, game play also astonishing and making the 
 best of it. Amazingly to the game has been added a few spec effects such as slo-mo (slow-motion) 
 also when you use nitro all environment around your car became distorted and it makes this effect 
 more realistic. 
  The most specific difference between other series is the police on this one. As you getting more 
 rating on the Black List as it harder become to resist to the cops. And that is how you became 
 MOST WANTED 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jamie_w_91
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 27, 2006 1:00 pm PT
Review:  NFS Most Wanted is something different to the NFS Series. I personally thought it would be a disaster 
 but i was wrong the game grew on me once i first played it. 
  
  NFS Most Wanted is mainly about Police Chases this time around. Evading the Police is a must but 
 you want the police to chase you for as long as possible to get your bounty up. The Blacklist is 
 entertaining as you need to have won certain race, done certain milestones and got your bounty up 
 to a certain level before you can challenge your next opponent on the Blacklist. Winning against 
 your opponent in the Blacklist will allow you to take their place in the blacklist and move on 
 with incintives too.. you get two bonus markers to choose and one is the pink slip for their car 
 that you can sell for cash to get your dream car.
  
  I think NFS Most Wanted met expectations and is a very good game. I'm not too fond of the police 
 chases all the time but it grew on me too. All in all a great game that is enjoyable 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Red_Crab
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 24, 2006 4:58 pm PT
Review:  I must warn all of you, unless you're ready to deal with swollen eyes and sitting in a chair in 
 front of the computer, then you should not get this game at all. From day 1 I found it very good, 
 I played it so much that a few days ago my girlfriend asked me what the heck was wrong with me, 
 cos my eyes were so red and swollen... 
  The fast-paced action can tire one's eyes quite a bit, so take breaks while playing it, aside from 
 this "minor inconvenience" I love everything this game has, particularly the girl, Mia ;-)
  The game is straight forward, which means you can simply sit down and play it without going through 
 a bunch of tutorials and such. It took me about 3 tries in the first race to beat the guy, but 
 after that I got the hand of it and got up the black list quite fast. I can't say there is a difference 
 between 15 th and 1st place drivers, the difference is just the car, so as long as you get the 
 cash to buy the top-of-the-line car, and fully upgrade it, you're on your way to being number 1 
 on the blacklist quite fast. 
  The graphic is great, good level of detail, great cars, lots of options to modify the car's looks, 
 what more is there to say about this game? GET IT and while you're on your way back from the game 
 shop, stop at the local pharmacy and ask for eye drops, you'll be needing them later ;-)
  Cheers folks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SevenOf_9
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 23, 2006 1:48 pm PT
Review:  What is different in this release of the Underground series is the obviously the COPS... chasing 
 you around. With the upbeat soundtrack during the high speed chase puts your adrenaline rush to 
 a new level. Remember those blockbuster movies with those high speed chases... Well this time you 
 get to ride it... right thru the edge of your seat... Even after you finish your sprints or circuits, 
 if you got the cops on your tails... your race doesn't end there for this time, you got to "out 
 race" the coppers...
  
  The Plot itself is intriguing. Right from the begining, you are set to the have desire of taking 
 back what belongs to you from the clutches of some guy whom you really like to give an ass whoop. 
 And i have to admit that its an ingenius way of keeping you glued to the game... So will you see 
 it through till the end?
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sarah-1988
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 22, 2006 7:21 pm PT
Review:  Need for speed Most wanted is like any other racing game. There is not much to the story and trying 
 to escape from the police 24/7 is very tedious. The races aren't very special and the setting is 
 very original and boring. Not like most racing games, the graphics are interesting. Like all other 
 racing games, Most Wanted is all about winning as many times. I dont suggest you waste about $50 
 on it like I did. Some people who adore racing games or police runaways may like this game. I do 
 not know.... Most Wanted isn't great and it isn't bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MartyVice30
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 22, 2006 9:50 am PT
Review:  Need For Speed Most Wanted is a pretty decent game with a good storyline. It has great car chases 
 ,but the racing gets a little bit repetative and It still seems like your racing on a set course 
 unlike Midnight 
  club where you pick your route. The "fake City" sucks, hardly enough roads and buildings suck also. 
 
  
  Gameplay: Excellent gameplay but it is strictly for the arcade type racer. he cop chases are very 
 well done but racing gets repetative.
  
  Graphics: Amazing graphics at all high levels, except the buildings are lacking a bit in this department. 
 The cars look amazing, and the graphical feel in this game is great. The roads even shine and blind 
 you if the sun is shining on it the right way. 
  
  Sound: Sound was decent. Cars some cars sounded great but some sounded like my blender. Music in 
 this game was ok, there was not many well known songs.
  
  Value: Value is a tough one to rate. On one hand the game was pretty enjoyable to play and if u 
 are a Need For Speed fan then you will want this game. But I found it to short and I couldnt find 
 myself bothered to finish all the side stuff after I finished the story. Like the rap sheet or 
 the extra challenges. But it was not worth the $62 bucks I paid for the Black Edition. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jin_tawo
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 19, 2006 4:46 am PT
Review:  When the racing games were invented, they were just trying to make (to-have-fun) games, and just 
 anything to spare time with.
  but now , a all new stories , all new methods of playing , playing !! Did I say playing, no I mean 
 bringing us real driving, in a very... very, suitable simulation way... that not just give us fun 
 and pleasure to try and play with , , but to complete our real life driving obseeion , in our own 
 home driving track.
  Anyone who doesn't know how to drive in real life, or underage, or drives but hates speed, please 
 doesn't try this one, because it will force you to do one of these two things:
  1-That you will be more & more obsessive with driving , so you will steal your own man's car and 
 kill somebody .
  2- or you will be freaking afraid from driving and you will never get to drive a car in your life.
 
  So, I hope I've helped you with this review...
  Thanks
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dodgerbob
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 18, 2006 10:40 pm PT
Review:  Pros:
  - Entertaining perfect cross between driving sim and arcade.
  - Selection of cars and mods were excellent.
  - When isnt it a blast smashing through a police 
 roadblock?
  
  Cons:
  - Blacklist races were too easy.
  - More goofy cinema scenes throughout the game.
  
  Overall Rating
  9 - Need for Speed: Most 
 Wanted Black Edition is exhilarating and lets you be the outlaw racer you wish you could be when 
 you are behind the wheel of a Lamborghini.
  
  Gameplay
  10 - When isnt it a blast smashing through a police roadblock? A perfect cross between a pure 
 driving sim like Gran Turismo and arcade game like OutRun.
  
  Graphics
  8 - The daily drive was detailed and made free roaming much more fun. Good handling of different 
 sun angles and rain to mix up the visual impact of the weather.
  
  Audio
  8 - Good soundtrack. I still cant get Chuck D out of my head.
  
  Tilt
  10 - I got the biggest 
 adrenaline rush every time I evaded a massive police chase straight out of the evening news. The 
 thrill starts with the visceral reaction to when a cop turns on the sirens.
  
  Value
  10 - Electronic Arts just lowered the price to $39.99, which makes Need For Speed: Most Wanted 
 an incredible value. Thanks EA!
  
  Overview:
  I just finished the Need for Speed: Most Wanted Black Edition for the PC. Check out my website 
 at www. ps3gamercentral. com for a more detailed review, REAL hints, and other cool stuff. 
  
  The story for this fun driving simulation is generally linear with the fun of free roaming. 
 Youre the new street racer in Rockport. Youve got to race your way through the streets and up 
 the blacklist. Win races, make cash, buy sweet new cars and get street cred. Oh and avoid those 
 pesky police.
  
  Working your way up the blacklist is the main objective. By winning races, achieving milestones, 
 and building your bounty, you get to challenge the 15 blacklist racers. As you move up the list, 
 you can get the pink slips to the losers car, get out of jail free cards, and unlock performance 
 parts and new areas on the Rockport map.
  
  The races are a combination of sprints, circuits, time trials, and drag races. This is the easiest 
 part of the game. You have to screw up to lose. Ironically, the blacklist races are some of the 
 easiest. Lots of flash, but no guts with those guys. The courses are decent, but can get repetitive 
 by the end. You do need to learn the shortcuts and nuances of the map to win. The rest of the map 
 is fun to explore and will come in handy when evading the police.
  
  Milestones are police-related to help build up your street reputation. Going balls out to get speed 
 trap tickets is the easiest. There are some awesome milestones like smashing 30 cop cars or causing 
 $300,000 in damage to the state and then getting away.
  
  Gaining bounty and records on your rap sheet are basically getting causing as much mayhem for the 
 cops and getting away. If you want to get 100% in the career mode, then you need to get all of 
 the records.
  
  The biggest adrenaline rush in the game is starting a massive chase straight out of the evening 
 news and then pulling a crazy maneuver to get away. The thrill starts with the visceral reaction 
 to when a cop turns on the sirens. You know the feeling when a cop busts you for speeding. Same 
 gut bomb adrenaline rush.
  
  Getting away is extremely easy at the early heat levels  just out run the nabbers. As the heat 
 level gets higher and as you try to hit milestones, you need to rely heavily on speedbreakers (things 
 that you can crash through and block the road) and great hideouts.
  
  Overall, Need for Speed: Most Wanted is exhilarating and lets you be the outlaw racer you wish 
 you could be when you are behind the wheel of your Lamborghini. The different cars, the different 
 gameplay modes, and the DVD extras with the Black Edition PC version make the game a decent time 
 investment too. I rate the game as highly recommended. Check out my website at www. ps3gamercentral. com 
 for a more detailed review, REAL hints, and other cool stuff. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jjj13
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 17, 2006 5:51 pm PT
Review:  First off I want to sat that you will not play the game all the way through. One reason may be 
 because you got bored of it. I say this because it gets very very very very repetitive. You get 
 bounty you gett milestones and you beat reces. That is all. Another may be ebcause it got hard. 
 IT gets real hard as you go on. The storyline is decent and the cutscenes are great. Yuo are just 
 better off renting this game first. Borrow it off somebody or somthing and don't believe the hype. 
 I hoped this helped you buy it, or not buy it! I am out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evilresident666
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 17, 2006 7:41 am PT
Review:  Need For Speed: Most Wanted returns the Need For Speed to its "get away from the fuzz" roots. NFS: MW 
 is the first non- underground Need For Speed since Hot pursuit 2 and may very well be the best 
 Need For Speed yet. Need for speed: most wanted has amazing graphics, where every effect looks 
 incredible. The A. I is smart for the most part, but at times can be inconsistent. Sometimes you 
 will be far away from the cops and they will somehow catch up to you in a split second. Need for 
 speed: most wanteds engine noises are ridicously realistic, and the soundtrack has a good blend 
 of hip-hop and rock. If you like racing games you must own Need For Speed: Most Wanted 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ritual64
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 9, 2006 5:12 pm PT
Review:  From the moment I got this one out of the box I was looking forward to trying it. A long time NFS 
 fan I knew that this one would be good as the cops were back again. The driving aspects of the 
 game are fast and furious and a lot of fun. The cops are a little stupid to start with but don't 
 worry they soon amp it up and make it one hell of a ride.
  
  The only problem I had with the game as with most of the NFS universe is the lack of damage (Porsche 
 Unleashed got it right) however if anywhere near realistic damage was placed into the game you 
 soon have crashed out or be busted by the cops. Personally I would have liked a bit more visible 
 damage to the vehicle and perhaps a small change to the car's dynamics after the damage occurs.
 
  
  However it is a mega fun game one that I have played through many times, just to try the many assortment 
 of cars and yes you can make it all the way to the end in one car if you wish. I am still playing 
 the game and I hope that NFS keep making games such as this 4eva. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eternal_dragon0
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 8, 2006 1:33 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: 10/10
  The first thing that'll get you hooked onto NFSMW is the stunning graphics of the cars, reflections, 
 and surprisingly, even the cutscenes. With Josie Maran heading the cast of CG/Live acting, each 
 cutscene is worth the while to watch. However, the problem that most will have with the graphics 
 is the framerate at which the game produces the graphics. You'll need a truly top-of-the-line video 
 card, processor, and RAM for this game to look remotely good. With a low detail setting, NFSMW 
 resembles a game that appears in the PS2, but with graphics set to max, the cars, shadows, smoke, 
 and even world reflections are amazing to witness. I've personally played an arcade racing game 
 called Maximum Tune 2, which came out in April 2005, and compared to NFSMW, MT2's graphics are 
 even a bit less detailed than Most Wanted. You have to keep in mind that arcade systems dedicate 
 their entire system to producing good graphics, so when NFSMW is comparable to a new arcade system, 
 you can start to imagine the thrilling graphics this game can produce. Another new aspect is the 
 variable weather generator, which produces true-to-life rainfall that makes the road glisten while 
 the sunlight produces glare that makes you (and the AI) blind after a long stretch of dark tunnel. 
 A truly magnificent effect.
  
  Sound: 8/10
  If you like rap music, then this is your territory. Almost all the music is some form of rap, so 
 you'll feel right at home. The sfx is superb, with a large range between a small crash and a wipeout, 
 a spinout and a skid, and even the rain has a sound effect associated with it. As well, the variety 
 of sound effects, especially in the police radio, is immersive. For example, you could drive into 
 a bus station, and the police radio would actually shout out, "He's backing into the bus station". 
 Or if there's only 1 cop left chasing you, he'd yell, "I'm the only one left in this sector. Need 
 backup!" This makes the radio commands truly interesting to listen to, and can also give you clues 
 as to what their next move is. The only fault in this department isn't in the sound quality or 
 sound effect, but is instead in the variety of music. It seems there's only ONE type of music and 
 that's rap. So what happened to the upbeat, racer music found in so many arcade racers? Or how 
 about some normal music that you'd often hear on the radio, until about a year ago?
  
  Gameplay: 9/10
  As expected of a need for speed game, the game consists of VERY fast street racing. 
 The only twist this time around, is the need to satisfy bounty achievements. Unfortunately, this 
 is rather tedious, especially in the later levels, as getting bounty is simply boring towards the 
 end of the game. In the beginning, you might be exhilarated by evading cops in Crown Victorias, 
 but as your heat level builds up, it is nearly impossible to evade a sea of Corvettes who seems 
 to magically be both heavier, faster, and more agile than any car that you're driving. However, 
 the game's physics and variety of cars make up for this shortfall. The drifting around corners 
 feeling is simply irrepeatable in any other game. As mentioned in the title, NFSMW makes the perfect 
 blend between the drifting of arcade racing and the slower pace of simulation racing. Where GT4 
 made the mistake of forcing you to make corners at about 80 km/h, NFSMW allows you to make the 
 same corner at 200km/h, with the right setup. Althought some may consider this to be unrealistic, 
 well, consider this: What do we race on the computer for? Is it for fun, or for driving practice? 
 If I wanted to granny around corners at 80km/h, I'd get myself a real car and go to Europe, where 
 there're no speed limits on some roads. So the point of NFSMW is to make your racing and gaming 
 experience an exhilarating and adrenaline pumping one, which it does so extremely well. On another 
 note, NFSMW allows to you customize almost every inch of your car, whether it is paint, decals, 
 speedometer, or body chassis, you get to choose between an almost infinite combination of these 
 features. And best of all, all these customizations look great, no matter which one you choose.
 
  
  A must buy for those who don't totally buy into the "simulation" part of racing simulation. Also 
 for those who just like customizing cars into their dream car. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blegend01
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 7, 2006 8:57 am PT
Review:  The latest addition to the NFS series is just great as it has both tuners and exotics for you to 
 mess with. The car range is wide with Lamborghinis to Fiats. Yea and there are police too. MW incorporates 
 the tuning and street racing of Underground series with the police from Hot Pursuit 2. The storyline 
 for the career mode and the graphics are great and online gaming gets you to spend hours before 
 the computer screen. Though I expected a bit more like being able to be the police and more customization 
 of the cars, the game just rocks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: heebiejeebieclu
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 5, 2006 12:50 pm PT
Review:  Not only is NFSMW a bog standard racing game, it is a pursuit evasion game - one which is pulled 
 off with so much excitement that I found myself on the edge of my seat. Not only that, but the 
 storyline and career mode so highly complimented by the superb graphics and sounds make it one 
 of the best racing games I have ever played. However, on feature that I would have loved to see 
 implemented in the game was the abililty to be the cops yourself. Also, one thing that annoys me 
 is the auto-save feature. This claims to save your game at key places in the game, but there is 
 no way of knowing whether your save game file is up to date or not. I worry about quitting in case 
 a race hasn't been saved. This, however, excludes the career mode - there is a save button in the 
 career menu. These minor criticisms aside, the game is very, very good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ceppya
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 2, 2006 11:19 pm PT
Review:  I had played Need for Speed since the previous version (Underground and Underground 2) , I can tell 
 you that this is the best in series, good sound and great graphic, that is all.
  The story? I had excitement when I played Need for Speed Underground 2, it was very addictive game, 
 but I can not find in Most Wanted as additive as Underground 2, I don't know why, maybe because 
 it isn't any different story from the previous version, only changed on graphic and sound, well 
 of course there is any excitement, when you are chasing by the cops, run away, hiding, blow up 
 things, pretty cool. 
  But still, this is a great game and worth to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rohan_bhanot200
Rating: 7.2
Date: Apr 2, 2006 10:26 am PT
Review:  Need for Speed :Most Wanted, the lated installment in the NFS series, is quite a good game. Only 
 quite. And there's plenty a reason for it too.
  
  The game is very limited. It adds new features at a great expense. Most of its customization options 
 are now not available. Also, it builds only on the previous games foundation. The only new thing 
 there is to see is the cops. EA also popped in about 65 challenges to help in making the game a 
 bit more interesting. Well, it certainly succedes in doing so as the replay value is null, except 
 for modifying 32 cars. But even the customization has been cut short, as stated before. The pursuit 
 moments are quite fun, but still its the same what you've already played. The storyline is a bit 
 of innovative, as it now introduces a universal ranking system based on how much wanted by the 
 police you are.
  
  Thats only an alteration on NFS: U's race ranking system. The controls cant be modified now, like 
 the previous games. guess that's EA's racing formula. The game also managed to take out the pleasure 
 of seeking hidden races, like in NFS: U2, as you can choose all races while at your home. The graphics 
 are the element that can be appreciated. But even they have their drawbacks. WHile closing in on 
 cars, you can see them hovering in the air, then suddenly changing to crappy tyres, and then finally 
 look like real tyres. The cutscenes are quite good. If you observe carefully, you'll see that the 
 underside of all cars are the same.
  
  The upgade system has quite a distinction. For example, you can purchase level 4 engine upgrades 
 for $98,000, which you cant certainly afford, even in the game.
  
  This game is only playable. Just Playable.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: leeyaawn
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 1, 2006 12:45 pm PT
Review:  haven't played most of the more recent nfs games, but i got influenced by a friend. and since then, 
 i've never regretted. (= great piece of software. worth every second! i personally find the music 
 very suitable, kinda inspired and edged me on to wanna play somemore. ended up adding all the in-game 
 music into my itunes. and bestof all, the graphics were superb! but my old laptop is only a shared 
 memory graphics card, so it really is a must to have a powerful graphics machine. i'd recommend 
 it to every single one of my friends.
  
  hope you found this rewiew useful! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cpke122
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 1, 2006 8:17 am PT
Review:  The game starts with some cutscenes and races. After a while, you'll get control of the car and 
 during the race Mia will call you to tell Razor sabotaged your car. So you lose the race, your 
 car belongs to Razor and you get busted. Sometime after, you get free and you'll have to buy a 
 low-stats car... It's all about climbing up the Blacklist (15 characters to beat, each has its 
 own races, from easy to mindbreaking...
  
  Graphics // 
  
  They're very realistic, the road is well textured and so is everything else (except for the traffic, 
 and then I mean taxi's, etc... not the trucks.) Also the rain that splatters on your screen has 
 been done very well, it really get's splashed onto your screen and everything you'll see in the 
 drip is vaporous. The cutscenes are perfect: hilarious, revealing, and best of all... real life 
 look alike. 
  
  9/10
  
  Gameplay //
  
  You'll get lots of cars; from Volkswagen to Lamborghini... Each has it's own specifications, and 
 you get to tune it up like you want it. The visuals rock, you'll have plenty spoilers, body kits, 
 hood/roof scoops, and much more! The cops are back and you'll notice that... In the beginning it's 
 fun to have a pursuit, you can easily loose them by just ramming into a gas station so they can't 
 go any further. and do a 180 to end up in the car wash and loose them... But when you progress 
 the game gets harder and harder... (do not smash your keyboard please) 
  
  10/10
  
  Sound //
  
  The game has about 25 tracks thanks to EA Trax. All I can say is: it's great! That's 
 for the soundtrack. The cars have each their own sound for gas, brakes, ... . 
  
  10/10
  
  Value //
  
  The blacklist can be done in 2-3 weeks, and then u still have the Challenge 
 series (about 65 race events) and the online mode. If you've done that, u can still tune your cars, 
 buy cars by completing races and play with the cops...
  
  9/10
  
  Reviewer's Tilt //
  
  The game's great, I actually couldn't find ONE shortcoming :p So urhm... all I can say is ... 
 Maybe you'll get tired of it after a month, maybe two? :p
  
  9/10
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gabi098
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 28, 2006 11:27 pm PT
Review:  The game has great graphics and great game play and that is allot but it lost some of parts since 
 Underground 2!!!
  
  First of all what happened to all the vinyls and why is there only one layer?
  
  There is also 
 only 5 wide kits and nothing exept them!!! 
  There are less part all in all!!! 
  
  How ever it does offer better graphics and a really nice city!
  Great cars new and old ones!
 
  
  the game is really fun to play and the story line is great so have fun evading the cops and trying 
 to get your old car back!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: george33387
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 28, 2006 7:58 am PT
Review:  I played need for speed most wanted as I loved the pursuit climate of hot pursuit and I generally 
 play from time to time to time some action-arcade games in order to have a change from Strategy 
 games,
  
  I found it very addictive with much action.
  
  Graphics are wonderful and the sound also (I liked very much the pursuit theme) . Also the games 
 movies also are perfect and wonderfully directed (Josie Mariam is perfect I already have more than 
 30 photos of her  ) 
  
  However there are too few options when customizing the car in compare to Underground, anyway nothing 
 is perfect.
  
  And personally it had problem my saitek p880 Gamepad as sometimes it was crashing but not very 
 often. 
  
  I highly recommend it,
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: webchuzz
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 27, 2006 7:13 am PT
Review:  Need for Speed Most Wanted is a return to the original series of Need for Speed. Different from 
 the Underground series, Most Wanted doesn't have as much things to tune up your car as the Underground. 
 But that doesn't mean that the game is bad... it is the opposite; Most Wanted envolves hot, dangerous 
 and speedy police pursuits. The cops won't rest until they catch you. You're new in Rockport town, 
 a city that was once known by its frequent pursuits and street races. But that is now over, since 
 officer Cross arrived at city with his companion. You're now on their tail, and they won't let 
 you go away so easily... You meet Mia, a girl that will help you through the game. Your principal 
 objective is to win all the blacklist racers and achieve your first car (BMW M3 GTR) that now belongs 
 to Razor.
  
  As you see, this game is scorching hot, and it will show you what a real pursuit is made of. Full 
 throttle and slip away!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Odhit
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 27, 2006 6:33 am PT
Review:  The Good: Really great graphics; soundtracks which will blow your head off; extremely intense cop 
 chases; great cutscenes; and damage particles (even though it was not that great)
  
  The Bad: No night time (Street racing game with no night time? Please...) ; no headlights; no neons; 
 no interior tuning; no custom-designed body kits (now they come in packages)
  
  The Graphics: 10/10
  The graphics of Need For Speed: Most Wanted deserves a two thumbs up. But 
 please, before you get too excited, you need a decent video card and decent RAM and decent processor 
 (I run the game fine with few hickups on a GeForce 6600 GTX 256.0MB, 1 GB of RAM, P4 3.0GHz, and 
 still having 62GBs of HD Space left) . I mean, when you look at the sun shining right into your 
 eyes, you WILL feel like you're in real life and being blinded by the glare. The car models also 
 looked very-very good. With all the car-reflection option set to High-Quality and Car-Reflection-Update 
 is set ona decent amount, you can see how the game makes the car's reflection look so gorgeous. 
 But remember, you will need decent hardware to play the game with all its graphical-supremacies. 
 
  
  The Gameplay: 8/10
  For me, the car chases were very-very intense. Unlike when you play Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas. 
 You will surely feel a sort of a 'BANG' in your heart when you hear the extremely-heart-punching 
 sound effects if you are spotted by a squad car. You will also experience bullet times throughout 
 the game. Remember that movie '2Fast 2Furious'? Remember how the camera made you feel like when 
 they are on a drag-race? Vibrating right? Like if you're playing a high-budget racing movie, (hey, 
 that's what the game made me felt like) . 
  -On the first heat-conditions of the game, you will only see a maximum of 3 to 5 squad-cars on 
 your tail, trying to do something stupid (because they act like if they only want to follow you) , 
 
  -and on heat-condition 2, you will see about 5-8 cars on your back (now they're acting like if 
 they are following you but occasionally try to box you in a position that will make you cannot 
 move) . 
  -Condition 3, things start to get sour (8-12 cars on you're back, they're not following you, they're 
 trying to kill you with SUVs which will ram you head-on. In real life, driver and anybody in the 
 cars would be found dead) , c
  -condition 4, helicopters try to chase you (the cop cars are now faster and more stabile. I mean, 
 when you empty your NOS tanks on the freeway, the cop cars WILL still be able to catch up) the 
 helicopters will make escaping quite hard, and spikes trips will end your chase in a maximum of 
 9 seconds. 
  -Condition 5, things are very bad (could be a nightmare, choppers are aggressive, more SUVs, more 
 spike-trips)
  The thing that makes you feel abit of thrilled is that they will give you an impound strike (3 
 strikes and your car is gone) . But there are things that will help you get out of trouble
  
  Sound: 9/10
  Soundtracks play big roles on racing games. And this game has a collection of 
 tracks that will blow you away. When chases begin, the track starts to fade and will 'adapt' with 
 the situation. While racing, there are several hip-hops, punk, rock, and metal on the imaginary-track-shelves. 
 Artists like Rock, Avenged Sevenfold, Jamiroquai, and many more contributed to that imaginary-shelve 
 thing ^_^
  
  Rent Or Buy?
  Buy!! But if you people are 'addicted' with headlights, neons, and the city-night-lights, you should 
 find another game (you're nuts) . But this game will surely worth your money. The replayability 
 value is quite high for me. You cannot replay a race and still end up with the same plain action. 
 And the cops are out there to be annoying... So go ahead, buy it... You will not regret it... BUY 
 IT!
  
  Note: Racers who are likely to get mad when they lose, should not take it seriously. The AI is 
 quite tough in this game. You might destroy your own monitor if you cannot deal with loss. Oh, 
 cops can also be frustrating! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rhondia
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 25, 2006 11:53 am PT
Review:  So, The game is not what I expected grom EA. Is a very good game but is doesn't have the extra 
 detailed something that I expected.
  The Need for Speed Most Wanted is not a simulation racing game, like some others said. Is like 
 the others Need For Speed games, arcade. Sim are GTR and Richard Burns! If the game had car damage 
 for your car and detailed tuning features, maybe was one of the best racing games. It provides 
 you many adrenaline and that is what makes the game preety good. I played with the Momo racing 
 wheel from Logitech. The game doesn't have good force feedback because because there is only one 
 surface that change the steering feedback. BUT generally is good, I enjoyed enough the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nalanji
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 22, 2006 4:21 pm PT
Review:  NFS Most Wanted is probably the most amazing NFS game they have come out with EVER! The racing 
 is super fun, with over 30 cars to purchase and unlock in the game, it is such a fun thing to do! 
 The blacklist is the cool addition they added to the game. It makes it fun to go against these 
 guys who think that their ride can kill yours! After the races, you may actually get to keep their 
 car! This makes it really fun to try and take all of the racers cars. Excellent game, BUT, they 
 need more cars. The envoornment is plenty big, but they needed more cars. It would've made it much 
 better :)
  
  Enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iceteo012
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 22, 2006 8:45 am PT
Review:  I have never been much of a fan of racers and to this day I still have no idea when compelled me 
 to buy NFS: Most Wanted. But I'm sure glad I did.
  
  Pros: The cars. Sure, its no Grand Turismo, but who cares. The main players to me, are all here. 
 The EVOs, Lambros and Dodge Vipers all made their appearances and it was thrilling to ride them. 
 The cop chases are the highlights of the game, although it did get a bit frustrating as the game 
 progresses. But when I made a great sideswipe & witness a huge pile up of police cars behind me, 
 I think I achieved gaming nirvana. 
  
  Cons: Whats with the godamn 'rubber band' racing??? My opponent was involved in a 3 car pile up 
 and managed to snake back up my tail in a matter of seconds. Com'on EA I know u want to give us 
 gamers a challenge but this is ridiculous. There is no reward if I race well, as I know pretty 
 soon the other car will be back in my rear-view mirror in no time (and even overtaking) . This part 
 of the game seriously sucks for me
  
  Honorable mention: The game has Jose Maran. Nuff said :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shalock
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 22, 2006 7:06 am PT
Review:  Here we are again, racing in the streets with the cars of our dreams and pretty babes at our side... 
 again, and again...
  
  NFS Most Wanted has some innovative elements, like new kind of races and an expanded map, which 
 has extensed freeways in which you can fly with your car, has some thrilling police chases and 
 a new and nice variety of powerful four wheels monsters of speed... However, that kind of games 
 starts to get repetitive at certain level for the lack of innovation, i mean, you have new kind 
 of races and all, and you have to make a reputation and the system to adquire the parts for your 
 cars have been modified (so the prices of them) , but, to me, this its the kind of game that you 
 enjoy for a couple of day and let it in the HD to play in some two weeks after...
  
  Overall, its a nice improvement to the serie, but also falls in the repetitive... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Revolution_DDM
Rating: 7.1
Date: Mar 22, 2006 5:19 am PT
Review:  It's a good game don't get me wrong, but it seems to be nothing new. There is new aspects like 
 cops and a blacklist, but otherwise it's just like any other racing game in the world. The graphics 
 look great on high, but otherwise they are pixelated and are hard to play with. It's a good game 
 and that's it, no better, no worse. 
  
  The gameplay in my opinion seems dated and wayyy over used. The difficulty of the game is perfect, 
 easy as you go in, impossible as you go out. The time you'll spend playing this game isn't as long 
 as in other games, but that just depends on the person. Overall I would have to say this game is 
 playable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChotaZorro
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 22, 2006 2:02 am PT
Review:  Need for Speed: Most Wanted is a well-made car racing game and the best in the NFS series! The 
 graphics are awesome. Only high settings and resolution this game looks one of the best racing 
 games ever. The gameplay is long and engaging with awesome story and cutscenes. It's fun to drive 
 around the place and adding the cops make this game pure fun. It's so fun to run from the cops 
 and get your heat level high. Getting busted is the most irritating thing and kinda makes the game 
 more immersive. The controls and racing is quite fun. The sound and songs are quite good. They 
 have a good combination with the gameplay. Overall, this game is worth playing for people who like 
 to have good cars and for people who like racing game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: superb_01
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 19, 2006 1:52 pm PT
Review:  Need for Speed 1 was super good then Need for speed 2 was even better.
  Now Need for Speed Most Wanted. And it's not the same from the past games it has a lot more.
  
 It's graphic is utstanding you'll feel like you're there with them. More sports car but they dont 
 have much car to choose like the previous games.
  And something from the past that they should have putt in the Undergrounds series. THE COPS!
  
 You will never get tired of them (unless you are doing a very important race) .
  
  The story is just awsome but when you finish the game it's kind of boring but not that much you 
 got the multiplayer.
  The Rival racers have their own car and style.
  
  I'm giving it a 9.6
  
  Be sure to check it out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: speed_devil
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 15, 2006 4:53 am PT
Review:  NFSMW is making the difference in nfs series! Is better from underground 2 and from all the others!
 
  
  The story is very nice and you have a motivation to be the best! With races you climb your way up 
 to the blacklist and your purpose is to become THE MOST WANTED! The cops will be a problem...
  
  The gameplay is really good and easy to control your car! A gamepad is a MUST!! So you won't 
 face any problems at gameplay!
  
  The sound is really amazing! Every car has it's own unique sound and with every engine upgrade you 
 make, the sound will change! The songs that playing while racing are techno and rap and you're gonna 
 love them! They fit perfect with the whole racing style!
  
  The graphics are very good with only few glitches! The cars looks so realistic and the reflections 
 are awesome! The sun is reflected on the road, which is a good element that adds realistic features 
 in the game! The crushes with the cops are amazing!
  
  NFSMW is a game that every car racer fan should have it to his collection! You won't regret it! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redcat1984
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 12, 2006 3:25 pm PT
Review:  Need For Speed Most Wanted is a very good tuning game most because of the grafics because and relaction 
 to the last nfs undeground 2 for me ita came back in time. in this game you dont have the same 
 selection of parts and vinils its like they never existed!!! were are the numerous parts like front 
 bumpers and rear bumpers and also side skirts gone to?? the structure of the game is better but 
 the history of the same is a little too simple. has for the grafics thats an diferent history this 
 time the grafics like the shadows and the reflexes of the rims in the streets are really good has 
 for the sounds they are good really good and the soundtrack doesnt goes very of the other nfs. well 
 in the end need for speed most wanted is really good but if you like the 67 camaro ss then you 
 should go for the black edition. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: black_shadow001
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 10, 2006 1:33 pm PT
Review:  Need for Speed Most Wanted, to me, is the best in the series of the Need for Speed games. The graphics 
 are very detailed from the city and buildings to the cars and weather. The 20+ different cars you 
 can buy makes the game different everytime you play it. The cop chases are intense. Nothing like 
 doing 150+ MPH do the freeway with 10 cops chasing you. There are alot of mods that you can install 
 on the cars also. The only draw back is that you can't spin out your opponents. That was a nice 
 feature in the previous versions of Need for Speed. The sound tracks, once again, are great. I 
 have played this game well over 100+ hours and stil not tired of it. The quick races are awesome. 
 You can drive garbage trucks, mini vans, etc... threw the courses. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: keanhong_1989
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 10, 2006 4:41 am PT
Review:  This games great, gets you into the game nice ,nice rides and more.. The sound is awsome, the graphics 
 is totally impress me, gameplay also different from other series. This game starts you off with 
 an intresting career mode that starts off easy and moves into very diffcutly and long races in 
 the higher levels. The rap sheet can see your stat in the skill of persuiting the police. Besides, 
 there also got 15 blacklist for us to beat. The music of NFSMW is nice.. i like it very much... 
 In customization, still got many more to develop, if compare to NFSU2, may MW2 will add it.. i 
 hope so.. Drifting also got in the game.. if u drive the car, u will find the car is easy to drift.. 
 make the game more fun.. the new feature like speedbreaker, also a nice "weapon" to drive the car.. 
 but if u can't control it, it u make u "die"
  If u like driving game, u must play it
  
  From 
  Mxx 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jakx28
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 10, 2006 12:42 am PT
Review:  when i first found out about NFSMW i could not wait and when it came out to stores i just ran to 
 buy it and found one of the best games ever.
  although lacks a little something called the laws of physics, that is what makes it so great because 
 you you can crash into anything you want (as long as it is not a wall or a big truck) and continue 
 to drive without a scratch.
  the game is very challenging, at start it is not vey challenging but after that, you will need 
 to break your head in order to yo move an inch forward because the races are getting longer and 
 the opponents are tougher, the police challenges are harder and you need to collect more bounty.
 
  but the story is kind of wired because RAZOR gets your car and goes blacklist 1# in 5 minuets 
 and you it takes years, still it does not matter because after all it is a racing and you do not 
 really expect for a story line, just a fast and aggressive races. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RebornJeremiah
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 9, 2006 9:02 pm PT
Review:  This game definitely one of the best racing game. I like the fact that it returns to the old concept 
 of older Need For Speed. I am not saying that Need For Speed Underground is bad but there are too 
 many things that I can say not necessary and they forgetting the game-play itself. The customization 
 is something that we don't really need cause it is not like we look at it all the time. It is nice 
 to have the option of customization but there are more stuffs that need to be improved. Most Wanted 
 answers most of this questions such as impressive graphic, great game-play, and also the return 
 of cops to the game and some new things like "speed breaker" which is a really nice addition to 
 the racing aspect in the game. 
  
  Yet I find the voice acting is pretty bad. It's like they try too hard which makes it really funny 
 somehow. I don't know if they do it on purpose but in the end I just find it really hilarious. 
 
  
  The game-play itself is not easy. May be it is easy to beat the 15-th Blacklist up to around 6th 
 but after that it is so hard not mentioning the police cars are getting harder to be avoided. 
 
  
  Great game in overall!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SLAY3Ris
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 4, 2006 1:06 pm PT
Review:  Ye like i sed in tuning they would can make more. Something like NFS: U2. There u can change ewerytinn 
 from lights till music system... But music in game is very good: in menu playing RAP, when u driving 
 plays good music for driving ROCK. I love HARD music so for my its left big plus!!! Graphic...
 
  Hmmm.... What i can say about it, that sun sometimes is nice but sometimes its trouble for see 
 where u're driving... Its easy to make mistake... Rain... Rain its nice u feel like u sit in real 
 car and saw raindrops on your foward window :) but if there would can see ur cars panel would be 
 much m more real. Control i think is good u can choose how u wanna ride... For driving very helps 
 that slow view its helps to turn easyer. I thin i say all about this game how i think... TRY IT!! 
 AND U SEE BY UR SELF ;) I completed it 2 times its realy goodgame :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metwally_89
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 3, 2006 11:22 am PT
Review:  This game is the best out all racin games... EA company rocks for makin this game, it gives u a 
 good feeling when the cops can't get u cause ur speeeeeeeedin.
  Unfortunately, the game can be beaten in a very short time. then u look for another game. but its 
 still worth playing!!!!!!!!!!!
  it has amazing features on how u can tune up the car and upgrade performance, and the markers after 
 u beat each member of blacklist makes the game even more fun. i beated the game in a weak,, pretty 
 short time but.. easy for me doesnt mean easy for all.
  
  its an advice to play this game
  
  BesT GamE EvEr
  ThiS GamE RoCkS 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dr-SharK
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 2, 2006 5:36 am PT
Review:  We probarbly all remember the first NFS games; All about fast cars. It's always been like that 
 until 2003 when the first "Underground" was out. Here it wasen't about fast cars. No, it was about 
 starting with a little slow one- like a Honda Civic, and then tuning it up to max performance. 
 It also had a revolutionary system, that allowed you to customise the car so it suited YOU.
  The sequel was out next year, very dissapointing, and with just some new cars, new city and new 
 parts. Everything was still pretty much the same.
  
  NOW, with Most Wanted, everything has changed. You now don't have to drive slow cars. When you 
 get up the ranks, cars like Lamborghini and Porche has returned, once again making the series worth 
 playing.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  If you have played NFSU:2, you probarbly get right used to the physics. They're pretty much the 
 same, but have been improved a bit. We got EXOTIC CARS BACK! So it's really, alot faster than NFSU.
 
  The career mode is also way different, since you're now hunting down a dude called Raz0r on a 
 Blacklist, the most wanted racers in Rockport. You ofcourse, have to race to get there. You do 
 this by having pursuits with the police, and by racing against the Blacklist- and other, drivers.
 
  You do get fewer parts than in NFSU:2, but this is likely because the game is always at day, and 
 its not about getting youre car to look cool.
  
  The police is pretty smart. They will surround you, and do anything to get you. They also communicate, 
 so if you can hear them talking about setting up a roadblock. Chances are it will happen.
  
  Graphics:
  
  Outstanding. Dynamic shadows, Normal mapping and so on. Everything you could 
 possibly want from a racing game. The cars look photorealistic.
  
  Sound:
  
  Every car sound is unique. If you really want a blast, buy the Clio V6, it has the most awesome 
 sound ever. I haven't found a single sound yet that is bad, feels out of place or anything like 
 that.
  
  Value:
  
  The game is pretty long, about 30 hours to complete the career mode. You also get a bunch of challenges, 
 which can get pretty tough. Once you're dont with that, you get a nice online multiplayer mode. 
 What would have been great here was if some players could be cops, and others could be running. 
 This isn't the case though, but its not that big a deal.
  
  Overall:
  
  Best NFS game ever made. It's Hot Pursuit, the good old exotics and the customisation of the Underground 
 series, all in one game. If you're looking for realism, you should stay away, but if you're just 
 looking for some great fun; This is the game to buy.
  
  -Dr. SharK 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeeeeee9
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 28, 2006 7:20 pm PT
Review:  ea company look to nfsug2 and say we can't do third because the players tierd, and what they can 
 inter somthing new in this game the cars? no, the places? no new style in cars? no, then one of 
 programing stuff say: guys what happen to nfshp2 lets make it thierd and of the producer shut the 
 **** up, because what we can enter new thing the cop? no, the cars? sure no, the places? say that 
 loud and clear noooo, then one of stupied and inelligence (i don't know how) say: haw about mix 
 the tow series and new series, and then went about 30 min with silent and then bigboss say : lets 
 rock and roll, this the story of nfsmw the game only mix with tow series with upgrad the graphics 
 and sound is very gooo, the story is good to show cartoon for kids not to games because you will 
 know the end when see the first itro if you have brean if you havn't then the story gooooood.
 
  tip: dont make any thing to the cars like porche 911 and lombergine and every super car only change 
 colour and full the performance but not the buddy and stupid draw oky that's tip for you ........
 
  the cop is senseless.......
  nothing new.....
  but buy it..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1_chris_1
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 28, 2006 9:37 am PT
Review:  You get a massive world to roam at very high speeds, plenty of real cars to choose from. From , 
 and a wealth of tuning options. This game has fairly good depth for a driving game. There are many 
 missions, games you can play/race, and a huge amount of kits, wheels, roof scoops, rims, stickers, 
 the color of your speed dial needle! Also in the game is a logos and brands it's great. The game 
 has a mix of linear missions and open world driving. The police chases are very tense, high speed 
 and loads of fun.
  This game is a must get totally better than all the others.
  VERY GOOD!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ketsapoulse
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 26, 2006 9:12 am PT
Review:  Amazing game , cool, nice and its NEED FOR SPEED most wanted it have very goods.
  Graphics: good world details and nice car detail .
  Sounds : very nice sounds of engines and 
 world sounds nice too and most cool thing the soundtracks they give you nice feel when you are 
 racing .
  Control : good like the others NFS but with some new buttons.
  The BAD Things : its about tuning they are more simple than the one in NFS underground 2 , it all 
 in day light there is no night at all there is just some of dawn .
  The Good Things : the cops , story line , blacklist rivals and the big numbers of cars .
  MY 
 LAST WORD IS : if you have money buy it and i hope the ea games release Most Wanted 2 .
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cablestein
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 25, 2006 4:07 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: top-notch, making use of all kinds of next-generation effects. Art and styling is fantastic.
 
  
  Gameplay: Pretty amazing that they innovated so much with one game. They do an excellent job of 
 tying story elements with gameplay, everything is done just right. The racing action is rock solid, 
 you can't ask for much more. The racer and cop AI is great, and the addition of time slow-mo is 
 great! With the slow-mo feature you can negotiate very tight turns at highspeeds... but at the 
 same time it does not give you a huge advantage... you will find your competitors gaining just 
 as much ground... it's sort of there to help you in emergencies because no one likes slamming to 
 a stop. They designed all the race routes with a smooth flow in mind, but still remaining challenging. 
 When it comes down to it, each race you participate in basically involves a couple points where 
 a winner can be determined, and the rest in between is flat-out pedal-to-the-metal.
  
  Audio: Leave it to EA to have a slew of rock and rap artists. The sound effects are excellent as 
 well... you expect the recorded engine sounds and nitro boost, just like any other racing game, 
 they're great... but NFSMW delivers on the subtlties: When you fly by objects in the environment 
 you here the "woosh"... but it is very dynamic... say you are flying past a row of columns... you 
 will hear an accurate "woof-woof-woof-woof". Other subtle audio: police sirens and horns and megaphones 
 all sound incredibly real. Police chatter is great and has a lot of variation. During a police 
 confrontation the music changes from the common rap/rock stuff to symphonic action music... excellent.
 
  
  What else: This game has incredible depth for a driving game. There are so many missions and games 
 you can play, and a mind-blowing amount of features and custmization... everything from roof scoops 
 to rims to stickers to the color of your speed dial needle! Included in the game is a plethora 
 of logos and brands... it's great. The game has a mix of linear missions and open world driving.
 
  
  I can't think of anything bad about this game. The only thing is, as far as I can tell you can't 
 customize the licence plates of your cars. Also, a subjective thing: What's with the drab looking 
 New-England/West-Coast styling of the city? Perhaps I didn't explore other areas enough... but 
 the environment is really drab. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shirazy
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 24, 2006 8:27 am PT
Review:  today, when you have a vast range of games of all type, gamers became very peaky. if it doesn't 
 catch you, is highly likely you quit the game after a few minutes and never run it again.
  i have played all NFS series, but the first one who really excited me was NFS - HOT PURSUIT . since 
 it was very similar to the arcades "police chase" game, i enjoyed it very much BUT i never thought 
 the best one of the series would be MW.
  i think that by creating a goal for the gamer, it became more than just a plain racing game and 
 not just the plot around it, but some other changes EA added, like the following:
  1. you just have to reach 1st place on that list, the eagerness derives you.
  2. the race areas 
 are constantly changing, if it repeats itself like the former games its would be boring.
  3. EA increased the law enforcement factor to raise the action, also outside the racing areas, 
 in the open world of the game.
  4. money is easy to get, and it lets you drive test almost every car in the lot
  5. you can win 
 the loser's car, very good idea
  
  when playing the game you feel the action around you, the sounds, the graphic, the element added. 
 the words NEED FOR SPEED take their full meaning now.
  truly, a magnificent game, even for those who hate racing games,
  Well Done EA ,done it again. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sid_mail2001
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 24, 2006 3:37 am PT
Review:  Music of the game just rocks. The music just can't get better than this. Sometimes you would wish 
 to turn off the engine and just listen to the MUSIC. Graphics are good too but at times put too 
 much strain on 1's eyes. Storyline and cut-scenes are just toooooooooo gooooood. The game is a 
 lil easy. Creators of the game must have made it a lil more tough. The police chases are GREAT 
 !! Specially when supercharged SUV's r behind you!! The story has been well crafted too but I think 
 the game must have been a liltle more long as it is too short. But the best thing in the game is 
 MIA :-) hehehehehe
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bf2expert
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 23, 2006 10:16 pm PT
Review:  this game dosent focus on racing as much as a need for speed game should it focuses waaaaaaaaaaaay 
 to much on the cops and the absolutley halarious cutscenes dont drag you into the game that much 
 there are a few cool things such as the emails the cell phones and the car custimization other 
 than that it kindof blows you haveto drive to get to a garage to buy new cars go to a seperate 
 place to custimize and drive to another place to save this game isnt the best racing game in the 
 world so i recomend doing extensive research on it first before even thinking about buying 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oamorap
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 22, 2006 10:59 am PT
Review:  La idea era perfecta, unir la saga need of speed underground con la saga hot pursuit, pero falto 
 algo, y aun no he podido saber que es.
  
  Volvimos a los autos deportivos de marca, pero con la adicin que les podiamos agregar partes, 
 aunque todavia me pregunto y yo que le meto de mas a un porsche cayman? un carro que de por si 
 ya viene lo suficientemente rapido. Volvieron las persecuciones policiales y sinceramente opino 
 que podrian haber invertido un poco mas en la IA de las patrullas, habian ocasiones en que para 
 completar la bolsa, era necesario estar dando vueltas y vueltas sin mas ni mas, porque los polis 
 no se daban maas de alcanzar al poderoso cayman.
  
  Se agregan nuevas cosas como las casetas y los desafios, las cuales le dan un poco de vida a un 
 juego que en terminos generales es facil, ganarle a los miembros de la black list no es nada del 
 otro mundo.
  
  Para resumir, la idea era excelente, pero les falto algo, no se, no me impacto como pensaba que 
 lo iba a hacer, ahhh y ese amarillo de atardecer en todas las carreras, eso es matador para los 
 ojos, eso si no me gusto. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yuork375
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 20, 2006 9:29 am PT
Review:  Need For Speed is gettin' better game after game, this one you play hours and hours to be #1st 
 in the blacklist, but this isn't enough... you've to be the first in all rankings, win all races 
 and complete all tha milestones to complete 100% of the carrer mode. To complete all the game you've 
 to do all chalenges and of course complete the carrer mode. Is the game over now? Just if you don't 
 play on internet... show that you're the number one in the world blacklist, be the best player 
 of the world win respect and be a famous player... if you aren't a pro have a lot of fun racin' 
 against your friends and showin' how is better!!! EA games we are waitin' the next need for speed 
 'cause the game is better edition after edition!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: denis1111
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 20, 2006 8:52 am PT
Review:  Only gave it a 9.7!!
  
  I didn't give a perfect score only because we can't see/save replays after a race.
  
  Love 
 Cops' and Opponents' AI
  
  Amazing slow motion action in police chases
  
  Awesome cities and circuits designs
  
  Speed effect is a welcomed bonus
  
  Superb engine, 
 gear changing sounds
  
  Terrific In-Game Music. Especially in the "COOLDOWN" mode after a police chase... the music, while 
 your hoping no cop will find you, sets the mood so perfectly!
  
  Great Variety of cars. I like tuning cars... And when it comes to personalizing your ride, NFSMW 
 offers a great selection of vinyls, decals...
  
  Well-done background graphics like when you are in the Safe House for example
  
  Just an awesome 
 game !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wanderer540
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 14, 2006 10:34 pm PT
Review:  Meet the longest running franchise of street racing game. Need For Speed Most Wanted (NFS Most Wanted) is 
 created by EA Canada and released by Electronic Arts. The latest release of the title promises new 
 gameplay and more exciting racing track than its previous release. The story starts with the player 
 arriving in RockPort City where the night is full with high octane racing enthusiasts with a serious 
 attitude problem.
  As a new comer trying to hit the scene n the new city, players wil meet a local racer name Razor 
 Callahan, a punk who doesn't play the game by the book. After sabotaging your car, he wins the race 
 and your car, leaving you in jal with nothing.
  Then, help comes in the form of a mysterious and gorgeous looking babe named Mia. Its time to get 
 even with the bad guys and get back what is supposed to be yours.
  Things are not simple as it looks because during the time you spent behind bars, Callahan has made 
 his way to the top of the Blacklist-the highest ranking street racer-with your car.
  To challenge the Blacklist driver, you must fulfill certain conditions such as metting the bounty 
 by the police nad wiining enough races.
  To rile up the bounty, you will go against the law. The cop in this city takes thier jobs seriously 
 so be prepared for a heart ponding race against the law. In the chase of a car chase, a meter will 
 start and you will have to lose the cop by out running them or by going into hiding. When the meters 
 end. the chase is over.
  Another feature is the ability to "bullet time" during a race to get out of a pinch and dodging 
 road blocks.
  Apart from the cat and mouse chase with the cops there are a lot of other racing modes in the game 
 just like in NFS Underground and Underground 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wolflegresley
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 20, 2006 5:04 am PT
Review:  This games great, gets you into the game nice and early hot chicks, nice rides and more importantly 
 hot chicks :) This game starts you off with an intresting career mode that starts off easy and 
 moves into very diffcutly and long races in the higher levels. Clear goal settings for both carrer 
 mode and the challange series (which if completed means you should be able to handle the game) 
 The car customisation isnt anything hard for people who dont know a lot about mechanics. The sound 
 is awsome, my roommates have woken many a morning to the sound of me revving my cars engine. If 
 you buy this game you wont be dissapointed. Black edition has a few additonal cars 1 additonal 
 (yet super fun) challange series and a making of dvd.. personalyl if I had my time back I would 
 of bought the normal edition as there is no real diffrence. Police chases are fun but yet can be 
 annoyuing after a 30 minute chase. most chases end up being 10 minutes or so. Simple.. You like 
 racing... get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kroloth
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 18, 2006 10:43 am PT
Review:  I'm not a big fan of car games, but I tried out NFS Most Wanted and well.. I loved it. The graphics 
 are great, I love the way things actually reflect on the side of the car. The gameplay is awesome 
 still at 10% into the game, but I'm doing all races, milestones, everything. Its great. It's a 
 must for any car lover and car game lovers. I'm not either and well, I'm definately working on 
 beating it. Enjoy it, even the LAN games are awesome. Specially being able to pick between Cirtuit, 
 Drag, Toolbooth, my personal favorite is the Speed one. But I'm sure this game is gonna get much 
 better yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halfbloodking
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 18, 2006 11:49 am PT
Review:  The all new cop pursuit aspect is a face lift that the need for speed series desperately needed. 
 The graphics are relatively awesome, especially the cars, though more detail could have been added 
 to the surrounding enviroment. The story line incorporated within the game is also a new addition 
 that makes the game feel incredibly more realistic. The pros include awesome sound, prodigious 
 and nail biting police chases, innovative ideas; such as buildings and constructions that can immobilize 
 police vehicles, intense driving with slow mo, and realistic speed effects. The main flaws of this 
 game include the lack of tuning and visual upgrades, the limited amount of cars; about thirty, 
 deficient and brief storyline, few cutscenes, opaque A. I. driving, unrealistic environment; there 
 are no people for one, and incredulously your vehicle retains no damage despite interminable amounts 
 of crashes and collisions. I know that sounds like a lot of drawbacks, but if you are willing to 
 overlook the faults then the game is a generally solid and fun play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Marcinkonys
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 18, 2006 10:00 am PT
Review:  I have played other games from the Need For Speed series when I was younger, and I loved them. 
 Ive played Need For Speed Hot Pursuit, Need For Speed Underground, Underground 2, and now, I have 
 got my hands on the newest game in the series  Need For Speed Most Wanted.
  
  About the graphics. They have really upgraded the visuals of the game. The cars look shiny, the 
 world is huge, and detail. Also, there are some very cool visual effects in the game. For example, 
 if you are driving too fast, the screen becomes narrower, and it is harder to see things around.
 
  
  The cops are back. Though you cant be a cop like in the other Need For Speed games. You have to 
 be cautious if you dont want them to be after you  that means, you have to drive slow (well, 
 slow enough) , you cant drive off the road, bash into things, and other cars. Of course, if there 
 are no cops patrolling around, you can do whatever you want.
  
  Once the police start chasing you, a bar appears at the bottom of the screen. The further the cops 
 are, the emptier the bar is. If you evade, you get to the so called Cooldown mode. Blue circles 
 appear on the radar. If you drive to a place indicated by that circle, you lose the cops faster. 
 Once the Cooldown bar gets full, youre free. If the police get you, you get busted. Then you have 
 two choices: you can pay them some money, or you get a yellow card. Get some more cards, and the 
 police will take your car.
  
  Enough about cops. Your main objective in the game is to make your way to the top of the blacklist. 
 The list has fifteen racers. You have to beat all the racers, and at the end, win against the leader 
 in the list, Razor. At first, its very easy to defeat the opponents, but later on, it gets harder 
 and harder  youll have to complete more milestone events, races, and collect more bounty.
  
  There are many types of races in Most Wanted  Sprint, Drag, Speedtrap, Lap Knock out, and 
 more. Each is very fun and challenging. In the Speedtrap challenge, you have to drive through each 
 speedtrap as fast as you can. The racer with most points wins. In Lap Knock Out, you have to avoid 
 being the last, because after each lap, the last racer is eliminated
  
  If you win a race, you have to choose one out of six cards. Each card gives you something different 
  the defeated racers car, more visual parts, more body parts, etc.
  
  Customizing your car is one of the coolest things in the game. You can buy visual things (body 
 color, rim color, window tint, vinyls, decals, etc.) , body parts (spoilers, rims, roof scopes, 
 and more) , and performance parts (N2O, suspension, etc.) .
  
  This game has to be the best racing game I have ever played! I highly recommend it to everyone 
 who likes racing games! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KSlater85
Rating: 7.9
Date: Feb 17, 2006 7:17 pm PT
Review:  I'm a big Need For Speed Hot Pursuit 2 fan. So I was really glad to see the return of supercars 
 rather then the um "import" that we have had for the last two games. But honestly this tune up 
 idea is bugging me to no end.
  
  I'm not a super fan of the world racing and the quick race is not quite good enough for me. I like 
 to be able to pick the car I am racing against. In HP2 I could pick the same car as I had or any 
 other one. I am a huge fan of racing with all the same car on the hardest level. That means the 
 handling will be the same. I was slightly disapointed that adding cars won't be happening. I would 
 really like to see that again. I still go back and play HP2 just because I can add almost any car 
 I like (IE Enzo and that) .
  
  I do like that I can now just jump to the races I want to rather then driving to them. I wish money 
 were a little easier to come by and that there was a better reward for driving around (you know 
 money pots) . The only rewards I have gotten so far are arrests and speeding tickets...
  
  Overall I definitly prefer this to the import racing of the last two games and the fact that this 
 is a little more "racing" orientated. None of those silly racing types like drift and that. But 
 it is lacking a bit still.
  
  The graphics... Wow is all I can say. The speed sensation is awesome. I really like that. At high 
 speeds the screen blurs much better then in previous versions.
  
  Basically I like it and recommend it just I was really hoping for NFS HP3 not MW Oh well maybe 
 they can make that next... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrcoolse
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 17, 2006 3:35 pm PT
Review:  If you into speed, this is the game, or for that matter any need for speed game. But I think EA 
 games has surpassed them self on this one, It's incredible well done game. It has all the fun of 
 the all previous games bundled up in one nice package and delivered out to you in one big happy 
 bundle of enjoy. I hope you will like the game as much as I have. There has and are some small 
 glitches in the game, but its extremely well written and you will get addicted to the speed. So 
 get your doze of speed and get the Need for speed now. GO to the store near you and buy the game 
 now if you haven't done it. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wakelim
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 16, 2006 3:00 am PT
Review:  The main new feature this game has over the Underground games is that it's not set at night (sounds 
 a silly thing, but it really makes a difference) . The other new feature (drawn from older Need 
 For Speed games) is police chases. You can be on the run at any time as soon as the police see 
 you and can only lose them by getting out of their range of sight and staying hidden for a "cooldown" 
 time. This generally works really well, but makes police pursuits extremely tricky later on in 
 the game when the police start using helicopters, roadblocks, spike strips, police race cars etc. 
 You play the role of a racer trying to get to get to the top of the Black List and become the Most 
 Wanted racer. You are robbed of your car and you have to work your way up from the bottom through 
 15 racers to the top. To challenge each racer you have to complete certain tasks (winning a certain 
 number of races, going at a certain speed through an area, destroying so many police cars, accumulating 
 so much of a bounty etc. You then have to race that Blacklist member and defeat them to get to 
 the next racer. This means that the game takes an awfully long time to complete and can get boring 
 after a while. Once you get to the end, however, it is a great ending. There are also a range of 
 races outside your career in the challenge series (where you get to race a whole range of cement 
 mixers etc.) online racing and quick race (when you get to decide where, who and how you want to 
 race) . You unlock new cars and customisable upgrades as you go through the game, although this 
 eventually means you end up with loads of cars you don't use. The graphics and maps are one of 
 the best features of the game. The city is massive and is unlocked over time and the graphics are 
 ultra-realistic, although haven't always been entirely smooth on my computer. Overall, a great 
 game if you have the patience to stick with it towards the end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xpcman
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 13, 2006 8:46 am PT
Review:  This game is definitely the best need for speed there is. 
  
  EA removed the problems that make a game suck. The camera angles are perfect, although it would 
 have been great to see on the sides, the graphics are very well done, and this time, there are 
 more than three vehicle models. I really enjoyed the way the game was layed out, the milestones, 
 the bounty, the races and the challenges. The performance tuning is very helpful and its "on-the-go". 
 
  
  If I were to mention the cons, well I guess I only have two or three things to say. The cops can 
 catch you when you are going at 50km/h (35mph) which is weird because if they were to get out of 
 their cars, you would squish them. The other small problem I found was the super heavy trucks that 
 when you hit into stick to the ground, which is annoying when your in a 11 minute pursuit.
  
  Other than that, I miss the 1 vs. 1 races against the street racers roaming in town like in 
 NFSU 1&2. I loved the safe house that makes going to events faster.
  
  -Worth playing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Silence_Toothy
Rating: 6.9
Date: Feb 13, 2006 6:42 am PT
Review:  this game is very arcade and simple, easy to learn.
  the sound is very bad every car sound the same, the soundtrack should be used in Silent Hill games.
 
  the graphics and the hype made that game famous.
  every car acts the same if you can drive this car you can drive the other ones as well.
  the 
 police isn't taking great part of the game, only sometimes when you cruise around the city or doing 
 milestone to compete against the next blacklist rival. 
  if you are looking for racing game this isn't the game for you, there are plenty
  other racing 
 games in the market.
  but if you are looking for very arcade, simple this is the game for you.
  
  Don't BUY IT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joelhole
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 12, 2006 12:24 pm PT
Review:  Id say one of the best racing games ive played other than the old school need for speed's
  
  The game play is excellent and very enjoyable
  I like how they added a new slow motion thing 
 to where u can control where ur goign for good dodges or stunts
  it has great graphics and music and sound
  i like it the best on the computer becuase i dotn 
 have internet for my ps2 so i can play it online
  Online play is awsome too, the raceing is just plain old fun!
  i realy dotn know what else to 
 say then a great game
  deffently worth a try!! *thumbs up* 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iXBuRny
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 10, 2006 6:08 pm PT
Review:  This game is definetly worth every penny u spend. Now, i dont buy many racing games at all, but 
 this one I HAD too. And I really liked it! Great graphics, fun jumps, and racing from the cops 
 is just a blast. Now, I admit I got a little frustrated at the game as I got closer to the #1 racer. 
 Its not the racers that are hard to beat, its the dam challenges and Milestones you have to accomplish 
 before they will race you. All in all, I really enjoyed this game. I think one of the coolest parts 
 of the game is once you beat the racers, you can win the pink slip to their sweet rides! Then to 
 also be able to trick them out even more makes this game one hell of a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: libriut99
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 9, 2006 6:17 am PT
Review:  In a sentence this game is very fun to play, great re-playability and beautiful graphics. This 
 game runs pretty smooth on my medium machine ( Pentium 3.0 GHz, 2Gb ram, Nvidia 6600 256 Mb) with 
 only minor hold-ups at very high speed chases. The graphics are excellent, I only wish they were 
 people walking the streets. Some of the race can be a bit frustrating when you have to press restart 
 over and over again due to failure (drag racing is still a mystery to me) . But overall this game 
 is highly recommended. Hell , even my girlfriend plays it, what other game can beat that ? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DzeTSNotorious
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 8, 2006 5:57 pm PT
Review:  Alright time to tell you what I think because I've this game in and out I give the selection of 
 cars a 9/10, the game play a 8/10, the cinamatics a 6/10, the mods a 5/10 except for the Spoilers, 
 Vinyls, and Body Kits a 10/10. Also the thing that really pisses me off is when you're so close 
 and some how the cops bust you and the #1 thing that just presses my buttons are the annoying messages 
 from Razor the guy that thinks he's all that and the only time he beat you he bugged your ride, 
 and he has the nerve to take it.
  
  Also if you think this game is the best i think the Underground 2 settings were better with the 
 better mods, better performance settings, racers on the street that you can come up to and race.
 
  
  Words Of Edvice: 1 save the game after you beat Razor because you might get really angry if the 
 game freezes at the end of the RockPort's Most Wanted level and have to do it all over again. 2 
 don't let Razor ever get to you he just talks trash and 3 always keep your eyes out for Spike Strips 
 there the most frustrating thing in this game becuase you automatically get busted when a tire 
 gets popped and it's about a 40% chance of getting away even with just one popped tire, I have 
 only gotten away by sheir luck and I stopped about one mile after my tires got popped and I got 
 in the evade and managed to get away even though i couldn't move. 3 Don't count on luck to come 
 knocking because it won't happen very much.
  
  Even though this sounds not to good it's still a great game in my books, just build up a tolerance 
 for Razor's constant moaning and you'll be fine 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fugas16
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 8, 2006 10:26 am PT
Review:  This another great sequel from Need 4 Speed this game has great graphics, a good gameplay, what 
 can i say this is better than the last.
  I think that the thing that i really like is the new cars, U have the posibilty to tune up som 
 great car like Porsche, Lamborgini, etc.......
  And theres another point that i wanna say the soundtracks are very good the tracks on every Need 
 4 Speed are great they have a incredible sound.
  Anotehr thing tahat i like it about this game is the videos and the animations are good, the style 
 that have the history its looks like a cartoon but with real persons thats a great innovation.
 
  This is good game.
  
  Dont say that this game is bad first u need to play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: limpbizkit70
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 7, 2006 10:53 pm PT
Review:  This game is just awesome!!!
  
  This game is great, it has lots of new things in it but it doesn't take that long to learn everything 
 (it took me like an hour to learn everything I had to know about) . Before you can play the next 
 rival you must finish things like races, milestones and bounty.
  
  The thing that spoils the fun and sometimes annoying is the part when you have to get a certain 
 amount of bounty to play the next rival which is very time consuming and isn't very fun after the 
 police chases you until heat level 5 when they use corvettes and SUV's on you.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: arnette64
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 6, 2006 4:55 pm PT
Review:  men this game is hot, i can't stop to play... if you don't have this game , go grab it now!!, if 
 you don't you miss something big! Graphics are awesome and the game-play, wow. As seen in nfs underground 
 2 the sound is just awesome, and again graphics, reflexion car, ... incredible the best racing 
 game!! i'ts a must to have in your collection, all good gamers should have this game, and its not 
 so easy when you came to the end of the game. You will not be able to not play for a long time. 
 This game is awesome! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AMEER157
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 6, 2006 4:32 am PT
Review:  Need for speed most wanted is a very exciting game. The customize options are as vast as Underground 
 2. The menu controls arent as good, also the gameplay ones aren't nearly as good as nfs u2 (but 
 i changed them) , and it is pretty awkward changing from dark nightplay with an underground like 
 in Underground 2 to bright daytime. The graphics are sweet and the cars sound as good as the previous 
 edition. The cars are a great choice for the series. The music could be better, but that is opinion. 
 Best of all, i paid 39.99 for PC Black Edition from amazon, and that is a great value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sudantha8527
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 6, 2006 10:07 am PT
Review:  Wow the story is really good unlike the other NFSU games... The cops are in and gives you a reall 
 goo adrilerine rush. The graphics are really awesome and the movies are innovative and the game 
 takes the NFSU to another level cause I thought Most wanted would be really boring and that it 
 would be the same old game. The cops are really awesome and good in AI. It's a crazy game bring 
 in the dsy time. The grapics are really good and brings out the best of EA games.. Love the game 
 keep it up EA. Can't wait for the next installment to come out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dj_fuse2k5
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 5, 2006 6:48 am PT
Review:  I purchased this game with high hopes that EA would be able to bring back the original NFSU days... back 
 when the races were actually a challenge, and the game had some depth to it. I was let down by 
 NFSU2, and had mixed feelings about NFS: Most Wanted. I was worried that the focus would be left 
 on customization and not so much on the actual racing gameplay, as was the case in NFSU2. EA hit 
 the nail on the head! They brought back the intense sense of speed from the original NFSU, mixed 
 with a cool daytime/muscle car approach with cop chases from Hot Pursuit 2. The graphics are stepped 
 up to an amazing level, and seem to work well on most systems. The cop chases are the best part 
 of the game. If your a fan of the series, pick this one up. It is definetly the best! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Destroyeron13
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 4, 2006 11:52 am PT
Review:  Need for Speed Most Wanted brings back the element that I remember from playing the old Need for 
 Speed games, running from cops. Need for Speed Most Wanted is the one racing game that has had 
 me coming back for more. More cars, more upgrades for my cars, more races, more cops, more insane 
 chases, more crazy jumps, more perfect getaways, more resetting if you do get caught. :) (You don't 
 have to reset, but I'd rather than impound my car/pay the fine) The game is truly awesome, it looks 
 great, it drives great, the AI is good, and you will love it when the game shows your car flying 
 over and landing on a police car. I'm also saying this as I'm playing with a keyboard! NFSMW's 
 only gripe is the crazy difficulty scale. It is so incredibly easy at the beginning, and so incredibly 
 hard at the end (1mistake in a race and you lose) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: battleknight_2
Rating: 7.6
Date: Feb 4, 2006 2:40 pm PT
Review:  Most wanted his pretty much all of the Need for Speed series game combine in one. You have some 
 fast pace race, some cops (NFS 3 N 4) , you can custom your ride ( Underground 1 N 2) and you have 
 to compete against some of the best drivers (Porsche Unleasched) . The game is not the most original 
 one, but will keep you playing just to find out how the cops become stronger and much more agressive. 
 But besides the cops, the game is slow pace. The races become boring after you reach level 5 on 
 15. At this point the game is redundant. Same races, same AI.... In fact after you become familiar 
 with the slow time button, the game is way to easy.
  
  But the game is beautifuly design. If you manage to find the time to reach level 11, then the thrill 
 of the games is just to survive as long as possible against the cops. These guys will stop at nothing 
 and will send the biggest vehicules at you to make you stop.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ReapX
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 4, 2006 7:03 am PT
Review:  This game starts of with you racing a guy and him winning and taking your car so you have to start 
 off with a new car and a couple people helping you on the way. You have to try and get your way 
 up the black list to beat the guy who took your car.
  
  I love that they have the police in this game. I love just driving around not playing the story 
 mode and getting cops after me and playing around with them. 
  
  Other than the story mode they also have a challenge mode with I think it is 70 challenges that 
 are all so fun. 
  
  You can upgrade your car and win cars from the people you beat in the blacklist which I love. You 
 can also win upgrades. You get to pick from six or something things and you pick two of them to 
 get suff like the cars pink slips and upgrades.
  
  I've always love the NFS series but this one has put together the underground racing and upgrading 
 your car from the underground racing and the police chases from the earlier NFS games.
  
  The only thing that makes this game worth-while is the police. I loved the underground ones but 
 they would have been a lot better with police. And the cops in the game makes the series ten times 
 better.
  
  I really think that everyone even the people that never really liked the NFS series should get 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jedi_Lord77
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 3, 2006 12:35 pm PT
Review:  Undoubtedly the best racer released all year (2005) . With outstanding graphics and soundtracks, 
 NFS: MW captures the world of illegal street racing rather nicely. The representation of the cars 
 and environment in terms of their physical dynamics and visual effects are highly remarkable. The 
 feeling of being bad while building up a rap sheet and outrunning the cops is immersive as the 
 player really feels, well, like a good criminal. This feature in the game (being an outlaw) combines 
 the best features of the Hot Pursuit and Underground series. As always the track designs and various 
 racing styles are flawlessly designed.
  
  Cars such as the SLR Mercedes, Ford Mustang and Porsche Carrera are somewhat of a departure from 
 the class of vehicles that were available in NFS: Underground and Underground 2. Introducing such 
 cars are actually bitter-sweet. It is unfortunate that such extremely incredible sport cars were 
 introduced when in reality it is the semi-sport cars such as the VW Golf GTi and Subaru Impreza 
 that are tricked out and raced illegally. Adding extremely powerful machines like the SLR is 
 thus unrealistic but incredibly fun (and I guess thats what counts most!) . Another unrealistic 
 feature of the game and possibly the most disappointing is that the races are conducted in broad 
 daylight. This is a seldom phenomenon in the real world as races are done discretely at night (like 
 in the Underground series) . Then again this daylight characteristic of illegal street racing 
 could be perceived as and original attempt to add a sense of danger, as the darkness of night is 
 an absent protection from being caught by the cops.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: langrisser2005
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 3, 2006 8:00 am PT
Review:  Need for Speed Most Wanted fires with high paced races with heart pounding chases that gives the 
 game non stop action.
  
  The Need for Speed franchise has been going a while now and has become one, if not the popular 
 racing games series of all time. Much was expected from Most Wanted and when news heard that the 
 old-style police chases were returning, it made Most Wanted a highly anticipated game.
  
  The storyline of Career mode revolves around a new driver arriving at the city of Rockport with 
 the help of a woman named Mia to climb up the Blacklist 15, a ranking system which is a formed 
 by listing of most wanted drivers by the police , by the races won and police evaded. However, 
 the main character's racing car sustains a mechanical breakdown in the middle of a race against 
 Razor, a racer at the bottom of the Blacklist, who is later revealed to have sabotaged the player's 
 car earlier. As a result, the player loses his car to Razor, while Razor uses the car to rise to 
 the top of the blacklist. Your main character is forced to start over with a low powered vehicle 
 and defeat 14 other racers before facing Razor once more and reacquaint his BMW, with the help 
 of Mia and named Rog, the tuner. 
  
  Now bottom of the barrel, you start by choosing a new "low-class" car and begin to work your way 
 back to the top. The format is very straight forward. To challenge a Blacklist member you need 
 to meet their requirements of races won, bounty amount, and Milestones. Once you obtained these 
 you can challenge them. When you win races of course you win money, which is spent on upgrading 
 your vehicle. You can customize it just like in Underground 2 to make more superior and efficient 
 although they are some new surprises. A Bonus after defeating a Blacklist member is you get 2 tags 
 to use to choose from 6 for your bonus. Bonuses include a get out jail card, a unique upgrade to 
 your car, and the best one, ownership of the Blacklist member's vehicle! 
  
  Most Wanted gives players with a number of game modes, which include a combination of races and 
 police chases. In Career mode, achieving goals by winning races and performing a number of actions 
 during police pursuits are essential in advancing in the storyline and racing against Blacklist 
 racers. In addition to the Quick Race and Career modes, there is also a "Challenge" mode where 
 players are required to meet single racing or pursuit goal, such as completing a racing route within 
 a time limit, or disabling a number of police cars. New cars and parts may be unlocked as the player 
 progresses through Career mode, but completion of Challenge mode and the entire Most Wasted game 
 may also unlock additional bonus cars.
  
  As the game title stipulates, Most Wanted features police pursuits in the game for the first time 
 since Need for Speed: Hot Pursuit 2. In Career mode, police pursuits may occur during a race or 
 during free roaming through the city, depending on the frequency of the police units in the area 
 and the offenses the player has committed. Other modes may simply initiate a pursuit immediately 
 in play. Traffic offenses committed by the player are known in game as Infractions.
  
  The police pursuit system is more complex than its previous counterparts. The manner in which the 
 police handle a player is now determined by the number of Heats, or wanted level, of the player's 
 current car. The higher the car's Heat, the more aggressive the police units are against the player. 
 Police start employing additional tactics and tools, such as roadblocks, spike strips, police helicopters 
 and improved police cars. In situations more than 10 police cars may be observed pursuing a single 
 car under higher Heat levels. A car's Heat may be reduced by changing the physical appearance of 
 a car by changing body parts or paint color, or using another car to race in the streets. In addition, 
 players may mount up Bounty, a form of credit gather as players continue to evade the police or 
 damage police units, which is one of the requirements to race with Blacklist racers in Career mode. 
 Rap Sheets, with records such as the player's offenses, damaged property and pursuit lengths, are 
 also available for viewing by hacking into police records, and also include the player's standing 
 in each individual record against those of other Blacklist racers.
  
  Players are provided with several additional features which prove useful during pursuits. The Speed 
 Breaker, provided within the driving interface, is used to slow down time and allow the player 
 a limited amount of time to quickly maneuver their car out of difficult situations, or assess an 
 escape route through a road block or spike strip blockade. Another feature in Most Wanted are Pursuit 
 Breakers, road-side objects which are designated to collapse when a player uses their car to knock 
 down its support, damaging or disabling following police cars. In addition, players are also required 
 to ensure that they are not spotted again by the police shortly after evading all police units; 
 a Cool down period is required to be met before police units give up and cancel search of the player's 
 car. Cool down spots, hiding spots where players may park in, are also scattered around the city 
 to help shorten the Cool down period and end pursuits quickly.
  
  There are several different types of races during the game which you must win to proceed on in 
 Career mode and Challenge Series. Some have returned from Underground 2 like Circuits, Sprints, 
 and Drags but many new ones had been implemented in Most Wanted. 
  There are Toll booth races which are point to point checkpoints which you must get to before time 
 runs out (similar to those Time Attack mode in arcade-style racing games) . The more time a player 
 has as they reach a toll booth, the more time they have to arrive at the next one. 
  Also there are Speed trap races which racers must compete each other to get the fastest speed record 
 at multiple traffic cameras. At a speed trap camera, players accelerate their car to aim for a 
 high speed record. Points will be reduced over a period of time after an opponent crosses the finish 
 line first.
  Photo Ticket, which players attempt to reach a required speed while passing a traffic camera.
 
  Knockout, where players race around a circuit and the racer in the last position is eliminated 
 after each lap. 
  Finally there are Outrun races where you need to escape from police in a certain amount of time. 
 
  
  The Gameplay is valued. The racing is quite intense especially later on and a single mistake could 
 lose the race. Racing the milestone races is always fun to do and the many types of races keeps 
 the game enjoyable. However in Career mode, you are basically doing the same deal for every member 
 except more races and more requirements. Free roam driving also gets a tad boring until police 
 start to chase you. The highlight is though the police chase scenes which are most defiantly the 
 best part in the game. 
  
  Graphics are excellent. The big world of Rockport is splendidly well made and fits the perfect 
 atmosphere for extreme racing. A block building or two but mostly fine. The cutscenes are a strange 
 factor. It is not very known how they were made, but my point of view there are real people in 
 a graphics made movie, either way its looks really good, despite some funny acting scenes.
  
  Sound is very well too. The chosen tracks for music are great which include artists: Styles 
 of Beyond, Disturbed, Static-X, Jamiroquai and Timo Maas, and The Prodigy. All sound great however 
 you hear them repeatedly a lot of times throughout the game which can get boring to listen to over 
 time. One theme however that doesn't is the police chase theme. It makes it more intense and fast 
 paced experience.
  The sounds though don't get boring over time. The rip noise of racers and the sirens of police 
 add great edge to the Intensity. Also the Destruction of property being destroyed sounds smashing 
 as well.
  
  There is good value to be had in Most Wanted. Not only the career mode is available but the Challenge 
 series which has 60+ trials to test your driving skills. There are Online capabilities to test 
 yourself against others and unlockable vehicles to achieve.
  
  Need for Speed Most Wanted is another great addition to its series. High paced racing and intense 
 police chases truly make it a worthy racing game. 
  Fans from older series will enjoy it immensely and current ones will too. Another great game made 
 by EA, good job.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mouzz
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 3, 2006 2:59 am PT
Review:  the underground games managed to save the NFS series, most wanted now takes the NFS formula and 
 makes it better in almost every front, the gameplay is fantastic, the graphics are awesome and 
 the added story is a nice touch, the open city concept of underground 2 is here but thankfully 
 you can just use your menu to go to events, and the day-time racing works pretty good. now what 
 makes this game better than the past entry's in the series is the return of the police, which takes 
 the game into a whole new level. what i think is missing from this game is the soundtrack that 
 the first underground game had.
  all the events from the underground games are back, plus a couple of new ones like speedtrap events, 
 and other ones mostly involving police chases.
  most wanted is for sure the best NFS game yet, the police chases, the graphics and the car selection 
 are all perfectly implemented. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cannyfox
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 1, 2006 6:07 am PT
Review:  NFS Most Wanted is the result of several years worth of whining by NFS fans for another Hot Pursuit 
 type title, and man oh man ... the whining paid off.
  
  NFSMW is very nearly perfect, a mixture of extreme pace, stunning graphics, and annoying cops that 
 just won't leave you alone.
  
  I say very nearly perfect for one simple reason. The fact is that you can only race so much until 
 it starts boring you. That said, NFSMW is a great game to come back to after a bit of a break.
 
  
  The game has virtually no learning curve at all ... even beginners will be able to settle in fairly 
 quickly ... and the first couple of races are tough enough for someone new to the series without 
 being so difficult that it will scare them off.
  
  NFS has a storyline ... but thats about it. In many ways it's just a rehash of NFSU2, driver coming 
 back from nothing and so on. So it's not like it's never been done before. So from a storyline 
 point of view NFS: MW does lose out a bit. From a racing game point of view ... it wins on all counts 
 ...
  
  Just one more note. Races do become a lot more difficult, technical and challenging as you near 
 completion, and you are likely to become annoyed very quickly when you lose your race right in 
 front of the finish line for the third time in a row. NFS: MW plays catch-up, so don't be too surprised 
 if the opponent you left in your smoke 2 minutes back suddenly roars past you as you are cruising 
 to victory. In this game it's quite possible to snatch defeat from the jaws of victory ... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gackt_2305
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 31, 2006 7:55 pm PT
Review:  Many people compare this game with nfsu ug2, well I think you can not compare this game with nfsu 
 ug because this game has the different atmosphere from nfsu ug. If you compare it with nfsu ug 
 you will find that nfsu mw lacking in modification no bumper, no multiple layer for strips, we 
 can not choose a brand for the product (ex turbo ) , no reply, and other differences that is why 
 you can not compare this two game.
  Mw is more like action movie with all its intrigue and tense, ug is more like hey this is my cool 
 cars and Im very fast!!
  Despite the absent of some feature this game still good (too good)
  -with bounty system you will 
 experience the pursuit you never have before
  -very cool matrix style (slow motion)
  
  What can make this game better:
  -reply feature
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 7ate9
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 30, 2006 12:06 pm PT
Review:  I've been out of the loop with racing games for quite some time. What really caught me on this 
 one was the graphics and the 'promising' game action movies. I find myself engaged for hours trying 
 to knock off the required races so I can make it to the next blacklist rival. The other reason 
 I got this was was for the car mods. Simply amazing! However, I wish you had to option to put decals 
 anwhere, not just specific places. Also, no option for changing the headlamp and taillamp styles. 
 Also, plenty of graphic tweaking options so you can really max out your video card and still have 
 the game looking great at decent framerates. I tend to turn off the shadow detail though. With 
 my videocard, shadow edges appear very blocky and pixelated. Overall, this is a very impressive 
 and intense gaming experience. I just WISH they had cinematic replays after you complete a race. 
 All the game previews led me to believe my races would actually look like how they did in the (pre-rendered?) 
 preview movies. You don't get that within the actual game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LIMEBOB
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jan 30, 2006 7:44 am PT
Review:  This is defiantly a step up but its also 2 steps back and this is why:
  
  The graphics are great and look really impressive and makes for a great racing experience but as 
 the need for speed gaming franchise goes more and more into the quote "underground" action then 
 the gameplay seems to suffer as a result of this. Ill give you an example, if you win a race against 
 a blacklist racer and you get the pinkslip to there car and you use that to race you will find 
 the races suddenly step up a notch... or should i say several notches it then becomes instantly 
 hard to win a race and if you loose then the second time you play it will be much easer. This has 
 happened to me on many occasions.
  
  It doesn't stop there:
  You may have found that the drag races have inherited a "Fast and the Furious" Adeline styled action 
 level as the need for speed: underground 1 and 2 seemed to have a good style of this, but need 
 for speed: most wanted has gone to far to the action side and as you play a drag race in story 
 mode you will find only 1 way to win which seems like a route that you feel you have been forced 
 to take. Almost all the time at the end of a drag race you will find an obstacle that means you 
 have only 1 path to take and if you dont then you can wave goodbye to that first place.
  
  Conclusion:
  I mean the game is good but its gone to underground and its trying to become a 
 movie with some gameplay. To keep the action running in the game it tries to make the races close 
 but cannot perform this.
  If you are doing well in the game you are punished like you are punished for having a good car.
 
  
  "I mean how the hell can a Clio keep up and beat a Lamborghini!"
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimboryno
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 29, 2006 11:43 pm PT
Review:  EA Games can be really proud of their achievements with this version of our beloved Need for Speed!!
 
  
  Just looking at the intro you get the impression that this a going to be an great game to play 
 and it certainly was just that. It's a huge improvement on the previous version of the game and 
 for our street racing lovers, this is the ultimate test as the police have finally been brought 
 into it.
  
  At first one think that this will be another breeze like Underground 2 was, but as you progress 
 in the ranks, racing gets really tough and the police pursuits get really amazing. It almost feels 
 like the real thing.
  
  And for those kids out there... Warning: Do not try this on the roads!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brewer74
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 28, 2006 5:43 pm PT
Review:  It was a great game with some great graphics and concepts. I enjoyed the free roaming aspect of 
 the game ans also the ability to do what you want. The chases are a great addition to the mixture 
 and they executed well, aome taking ages to finish, which is good. The cheezy cut scens with the 
 dodgy acting is a worry though. They could have executed that bit better. Overall I thought it 
 was a solid game with a fairly long life-span. A good variety of cars too. The new races modes 
 that include the sppedtrap races are a reat addition to the underground 2 formula. I found that 
 the customisation of the last game was a great thing and allowed you to take that free roaming 
 nature of the game to your car and apply you own unique stylings. Not in this one. You do have 
 standard options for "body kits" and such, but nothing llike the variety of underground 2. I found 
 this aspect and the sliders that now dictate how to tune your car, a step backwards in the series. 
 While almost everything else went foward for this release, this option seems to have taken a backward 
 step. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shatilov
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 28, 2006 3:36 pm PT
Review:  The Good : This game has great visual & sound effects , especially during th hot pursuits on the 
 High Way , were you out run the police & live the feeling of high pursuits. In this sequel that 
 is alot different than the others sequels in this series (Best of its's Kind) + it also have a 
 full mind blowing videos were you can just relax & watch .
  
  The Bad : The AI in this game is so stupid at the beginning of the race , so in other words if 
 you want to win the race start that in the 1st couple of miles were the AI is not that competitive 
 with you , because later on & during the race the AI will change from stupid to smart were it's 
 intelligence change to more than a real racer (as if that it arleady knows were & when to pass 
 corners correctly) . Another bad thing about this game is it's lack of videos (Although they are 
 great & tremendous , yet they are few , 2 - 4 videos) . 
  
  At the end I think that this is a great game , & to those who love racing games I think that you 
 should buy it , trust me you dont want to miss games like this , it has great features 7 provide 
 you with a full gaming experience . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shenlong17
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 27, 2006 9:22 pm PT
Review:  esta ultima entrega del need for speed es sorprendente me gusta muchisimom por sus retos tiene 
 lo clasico de need for speed y lo innovador de underground tunning ilegal races cops y ademas su 
 increibles graficos y musica.
  
  ademas de la blacklist que me parece muy buena tambien tiene la serie desafio que como su nombre 
 lo indica es un desafio para nuestra habilidad como conductores ilegales 
  tambien sus ecenarios que nos permiten total libertad que ofrecen pausas de persecucion escondites 
 para escaparnos de la poilcia sus diferentes niveles de busqueda como al pricipio empiezan com 
 patrulla ciudadana incognito helicopteros todoterrenos con nitroso que nos envistes su inteligencia 
 artificial
  es sorprendente 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VolcaN3
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 27, 2006 11:53 am PT
Review:  I don't get the whole excitement around the Need For Speed series, it's just a regular, not really 
 exciting, old fashion, racing game.
  Beside the graphic improvment, and the police chases, nothing is very exciting, and I realy don't 
 get all the fuss around it, it's not like the Burnout series that actually fun and exciting and 
 a are really great games, this is another attempt for EA to try and get more money without breaking 
 a sweat.
  But, for the good side of the game, the storyline is a lot better and a lot more interesting then 
 other racing games, and the Speed Braker is a good improvment to this game, and of course, the 
 graphics is better.
  If you really like racing games and the Need For Speed series, buy it.
  Id you don't, rent it! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dexfurax
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 27, 2006 9:57 am PT
Review:  What to say, well to be quite honest, this game was a stunner... AT FIRST... I mean the opening 
 video's are the bomb, high action and with the Black Edition and DVD, you really start to get immersed 
 in the NFS world. Excellent graphics on the higher setting (at one point I was wondering WTF was 
 up with the shadows on my car, they were only refreshing every 3 seconds or so and looked crappy. 
 I did find a setting in the advanced graphic's menu that allowed me to turn this up to real-time 
 refreshing which improved it dramatically) . 
  
  Quick action, good AI on the cops part, particularly in the addition of the Rhino SUV Armored Jeep 
 Grand Cherokee's flying down the other side of the interstate at you... Hit them, DEAD STOP... 
 Then the 15 - 30 cars following you can catch up and arrest you. Excellent sound quality, there 
 are a few issues with this title though. 
  
  Firstly, and it has been said many times before, you need to create a game with a higher level 
 of realism and the lack of damage modeling on your car is a downside. I'll admit the tight corners 
 of most city streets in NFSMW make it nearly impossible to drive WITHOUT damaging your ride and 
 I can see a point to not creating a damage modeling/system so that you can drive your car without 
 having to always restore it and whatnot. The ability to tweak your current car and or compare the 
 benefits of dropping 750K + on a new one needs to be drastically improved. I can remember one time 
 when I had one a wicked Lamborghini then two days later went to buy a newer and better one to find 
 out after picking it up and adding ALOT in additional parts and $$$ that it was slower than my 
 current one.
  
  Over all excellent racing/action game, highly recommend if your into the street scene even if it's 
 in your living room!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hybridhuman
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 26, 2006 5:15 pm PT
Review:  Need for Speed: Most Wanted is the latest game in the NFS series, and it is just absolutely, hair-raisingly, 
 mind-gushingly, gut-bustingly amazing! If you played the previous Underground series of NFS games, 
 and liked them for tuning and atmosphere - MW's got it! If you played the Hot Pursuit series and 
 loved the tense and amazingly fast police chases - MW's got it! Finally, if you like what NFS offers 
 in between each series of games like exotic and import cars, and free-roaming and linear racing 
 - MW's got it mixed in like the PB&J in last monday's sandwich! 
  Now onto the technical aspects of this game. 
  
  Graphics-wise the game is stunning, featuring 
 realistic reflections, colors, and textures on the cars and world. It will run on a 3 year old 
 system fine, maybe older depending on the car. The best thing is when you hit the 150 km/h mark, 
 a spectacular bloom effect makes you feel the speed at which you are going, and when NO2 is activated, 
 the screen blurrs and shakes the sides and you get a real buzz. Every action is beautiful to watch 
 at exhillarating, high speeds. 
  
  Speaking of actions, this game implemends two very cool features for your driving pleasure. First 
 is NO2 Boost, while nothing new, the upgrade now lets you use NO2 without having to do crazy stunts 
 ala NFSU, this time, just driving fast will fill up the bar. Second, a "speedbreaker" feature is 
 added. For those who are not in the wheel (pun intended) , the feature is a slow-mo focus mode that 
 you can activate with a tap of a button. When you activate it, all bloom effects are taken away 
 and the camera zooms closer to the car, everything around you slows down to a snail's pace for 
 a short period of time. This is neat as you can do split-second turns and dodges and get the upper 
 hand over the cops or any obstacles you may encounter. Saves a lot of lives - I'll tell you that!
 
  Sound is superb THX quality, with a great soundtrack of rock and rap beats to pump you up for 
 the next drive. Engine sounds, horns from oncoming traffic, skids, police-comms, everything around 
 you can be heard fantastically. Slow-mo stretches the sounds and dilutes music and ambieance perfectley! 
 
  Gameplay is crazy good, albiet the career mode cutscenes being extremley foolishley acted, everything 
 is great. Challenge mode rocks, and online play is very nicley done. The atmosphere and look of 
 the game is very reminiscent of Gone in 60 Seconds, with green-orange hues and sunsets along a 
 US countryside city. 
  So go check this game out, you wont be dissapointed. The racing (or should I say speeding, evading, 
 chasing) is excellent, the cops are smart and put up a challenge, and dont wory about repeating 
 laps and streets, the game features a huge open-world envoironment, although unlike NFSU2, you 
 wont have to ride arund for a mission, you get righ nto the fun! Best racing game for PC - Period. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rsqu
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 26, 2006 2:04 pm PT
Review:  This is probably the best Need for Speed that has come out yet. I enjoyed playing this game, as 
 the difficulty is pretty hard so you dont pass the game on the day you buy it. They put alot of 
 effort into it, and the graphics are excellent! On computer anyway. The police cars have damage, 
 and that looks really good, but I am somewhat dissapointed that our cars and normal cars on the 
 road do not have damage. It would have been nice to see some of the most realistic damage put into 
 more use that just police. In fact, I also would have liked to be able to put neons on my car, 
 and choose different body parts instead of body kits. They took away ALOT of stuff in this game 
 compared to underground and underground 2. But overall, I enjoyed playing this game. It is a big 
 free roam, with nice places to just cruise around and stuff. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: themubashir
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 26, 2006 10:02 am PT
Review:  NFS Most wanted is an excellent car racing game which provides with everything from high speed 
 car races, police chases, car customizing etc etc.
  
  Police chases r as good as in movies. The A. I of the game is also pretty good. for e. g. the more 
 rules you break the more the cops get angry.
  Chases r very intense. in the beginning it may seem easy but as your heat rises it becomes tougher.
 
  The races r also FAST enough to keep adreline rushing through your veins.
  To come up the Blacklist you not only need to finish of the races but also collect some bounty 
 and finish off some milestones by driving the police crazy. This is fun.
  Customization of cars is also one of the deepest ever and provides with so many options to make 
 your ride as you want it to be.
  Graphics are nothing short of amazing. looks much more realistic than the Underground series. Cutscenes 
 r also of excellent quality.
  The sound is too good and keeps the mood of the game going.
  The game is the best NFS to ever come on a PC.
  Although the game is not as fast as Burnout Series 
 (PS 2) it is very well depicted.
  the plus points of the games r its Police Chases and graphics.
  This games leaves with me with 
 one line to say.
  "Rules are meant to be Broken" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ingwe657
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 26, 2006 2:05 am PT
Review:  NFS most wanted was a great game that really rocked and put the other NFS's away with its fast 
 rhythm its great music and of course some realistic elements that made it ppealing to gamers.
 
  
  first of all its graphics were fantastic: beautifully designed places and cars environment that 
 was changing and long races that took place in different places. while using nitro boost the image 
 was great as well as while raining. the sound as in all NFS's was suitable for the game since it 
 added in the atmosphere, really rocked and intensified the need for speed. however MW had some major 
 differences compared to the other games of the series that contributed to its success. the first 
 point was the existence of cops that really missed from the previous NFS's since they make the 
 game really interesting and had a lot of action since you tried to evade the police cars and the 
 helicopters that chased you that varied as the heat level went up. the gameplay of this Nfs varied 
 alot compared to the other games of the series and was really improved .although the way you bought 
 the upgrades wasn't much different while beating an opponent you could choose 2 markers that could 
 give you any visual or perfomance upgrade as well as cash or your opponent's car, features that 
 were missing and that created a great scenario as well as the existence of the black list
  that added a solid story. the value of the game is the usual of all racing games: when you finish 
 it you get bored of it 
  
  all in all MW is a great game of its kind and definitely the best game to date of the NFS series 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lukeriela
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 20, 2006 12:24 pm PT
Review:  Need for Speed: Most Wanted is the sequel to the some what dissapointing Need for Speed: Underground 
 2. Although, this time EA went all out, and the result is an excellent combination of the Underground 
 series with the previous games in the Need for Speed series. Most Wanted fixes many of the problems 
 with Underground 2 and throws in a bunch more.
  
  If you're worrying that Most Wanted is still plagued with the chore of driving everywhere, you 
 should be glad to hear that EA fixed that obvious flaw. Most Wanted still lets you drive around 
 the open city, but instead of driving to every single race, there is now a menu at the safe house 
 that transports you to that race. Also, now you don't have to drive around the city looking for 
 the modification that you wan't, there is a modification place near to every safe house and it 
 will have all the modifications that you need. Finally, after 2 games filled with darkness, Most 
 Wanted introduces day light which is a fabulous addition, although then they kicked out night time 
 completely. While it is a bummer that there are no night races in Most Wanted, it was well worth 
 the sacrifice for the daytime.
  
  When they improved on everything in Underground 2, EA also left some things behind. Now, there 
 are no more SUV's, but really who liked the SUV's in Underground 2 anyway. Also, some of the small 
 tweaks and strange modifications from NFSU2 are gone like modifying your side view mirrors and 
 making your hood open up in cool ways, although EA kept the important stuff. While some options 
 were forced out of Most Wanted, most of them you probably won't be missing that much. The one thing 
 that I actually will miss from the two previous entries is the Draft mode, where you slide around 
 corners to gain points EA made Most Wanted a whole new and improved game and there were some sacrifices 
 in the deal.
  
  Most Wanted starts you out racing in a BMW M3 racing the bad guy: Razor. You put your Beamer on 
 the line and it ends up halfway through the race, your car gets messed up and your forced to hand 
 it over to Razor. After that you find out that with your car he made his way to the top of the 
 blacklist. You are teleported back a couple of days before that to race a couple of races that 
 led up to the race with Razor. Then, in fact, you race the same race again and have your car break 
 down again. EA did an interesting thing with the beginnning of the game, but they did it well. 
 Not only does the beginning give you a sneak peak of how cool the cars are later on in the game, 
 but it also makes you interested in the plot for the first 15-20 minutes.
  
  After that I had no interest in the plot whatsoever, but racing games don't need a plot, so I am 
 not complaining. Although, sadly one of the biggest flaw in Most Wanted is that it thinks its cool 
 or that it just tries to be funny, but it isn't. With Ronnie Mccrae who thinks he's so radical, 
 man. Ronnie Mccrae tries to be so cool, but is so stupid, he is actually a little funny. Also, 
 Razor thinks he so much better than everybody, but he too ends up just being stupid. Anyway, even 
 though the characters are dreadfully annoying it makes it all the more satisfying to beat them.
 
  
  Most Wanted places you with the task of making it to the top of the blacklist by beating all the 
 15 blacklist members. Although, to actually get to the point of facing a blacklist member, you 
 have to win a certain number of races, and get enough bounty and milestones. For each blacklist 
 member there is a list of races in which you can race in. What is cool about this is that, there 
 are more races that are available for you to race in than you actually are required to beat. This 
 means that you have the decision to either win every race for the Blacklist member and then challenge 
 the next blacklist member or once you win enough races you can just challenge the blacklist member 
 and move on.
  
  Although, winning races isn't the only thing that you need to do to face a blacklist member, you 
 also have to get enough milestones and bounty. Milestones are challenges that you can only beat 
 during a police chase, for example: I have to make the chase last for atleast 6 minutes. The milestones 
 make you do things that you wouldn't have ever done otherwise and it really raises the intensity 
 of the chases that are intense enough on their own. Bounty is basically your reputation with the 
 cops. By completing milestones and raising the cost to the state, your bounty raises. These challenges 
 push you to purposefully keep the chase going when you would like to just ram into the donut shop 
 and end the chase right there.
  
  Most Wanted adds in destructible environments to the Need for Speed series, which really changes 
 gameplay. Not only do the huge destrucible environments give you a chance to lose the cops, but 
 the smaller scale objects such as a bench can be destroyed to increase your cost to state. The 
 destructible environments also add a much needed touch of openness in the world, anytime you can 
 feel free to drive onto the sidewalk destroy a few benches and then maybe drive through a train 
 station while your at it.
  
  Among the long list of improvements, Most Wanted adds in cars that are actually cool. Now you can 
 finally modify that Aston Martin or Lamborghini and drive it at lightning fast speeds. Most Wanted 
 also keeps what is best about the series: its great sense of speed. With the whole city blurring 
 past you, Most Wanted makes you keep your eyes on the screen especially when you boost your car 
 even faster with NOS. The NOS system is different in Most Wanted than it was in the last two games, 
 your NOS recharches. This seems a little cheap in the first half of the game, but soon you'll come 
 to rely on it later in the game. I liked the system in NFSU2 better, but it is nice to be able 
 to use so much NOS.
  
  Among the short list of problems in Most Wanted, collision detection is one of them. First of all 
 when you crash into one of the pursuit breakers (destructible environment you can crash into to 
 take out cop cars) , all the cop cars in the area just break down. I admit it would be a little 
 hard to lose the cops if this didn't happen, but EA could have made the pursuit breakers require 
 a little more skill, and a little less luck. Also, another issue I had with the collision detection 
 is that when cop cars surround you, but there is still an open space it seems like there is an 
 invisible wall that blocks you from going anywhere, which gets pretty frustrating at times.
  
  Speaking of cop cars, the AI for the cops is absolutely brilliant. The cops are agressive and 
 smart, they will try to ram you into the wall and then surround you. They only get better as the 
 'heat' for your car raises, then they will have better vehicles, better tactics, and then helicopters. 
 The police chases in Most Wanted are the highlight of the game, but the racing isn't half-bad either. 
 The AI for your opponent racers may not be the best through most of the game, but the one thing 
 about this AI that is great is that they have Catch-up. This means that later on in the race, unless 
 you are a perfect driver, the racers will catch up to you which makes the race more intense.
  
  One of the other highlights of Most Wanted is its visuals. From the beautiful look of speed 
 to the nasty look of mashed up police cars. Most Wanted looks great and the PC version is the next 
 best thing from the Xbox 360 version.
  
  The sound isn't as top-notch as the graphics, but Most Wanted is one of those games that you keep 
 the sound on for. Besides the cheesy custom-made songs in Most Wanted, the music isn't too bad 
 and its a lot better than the rap in NFSU2. Otherwise, the cars sound great and the crashes sound 
 even better. The voice acting could have been better, but thats how EA wanted the characters to 
 sound like sadly.
  
  Need for Speed: Most Wanted is a great game that I recommend to everybody, while some things were 
 left out from the past games, Most Wanted improvements fully make up for what was lost. Some small 
 new problems also found their way into the series, but they are only small flaws in a masterpiece 
 of a game. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: glentel
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 25, 2006 7:40 pm PT
Review:  I personally love this game since it's similar to the underground version for the racing portion. 
 The cops are a very good addition and it brings the game to a more challenging level as it gets 
 harder (and almost impossible) to escape them as you get closer to the #1 position. The graphics 
 are pretty good but not very different then in the 'Underground' versions. For the music in the 
 game, it is perfect as always. I am playing this game with the Logitech MOMO steering wheel and 
 I like it. The force-feedback effects are awesome and immerse you in the game like nothing else.
 
  
  All in all, if you like arcade-style racing games, give it a try and I'm pretty sure you will get 
 hooked by it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doomhesoka55
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 25, 2006 8:04 am PT
Review:  NFSMW is one of the most interesting racing games in PC I think because this game has a great game 
 play and great sound and I think this game really worth playing and no one could start playing 
 and then stop Unless he spent about 3 or 4 continuous hours in playing the game and the sound engine 
 is really great so if you just like to play a good racing game just play Need For Speed Most Wanted
 
  My wish for you to be the most wanted for game police 
  
  Good luck for every body in playing 
  Done by 
  Ahmad Jaffal ( Hesoka')
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: iciris
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 24, 2006 8:57 am PT
Review:  This game starts off with you racing in your BMW, which you lose later do to some cheating done 
 by the computer opponent Razor. You are then required to buy a new car, and start from the ground 
 and work your way up.
  
  The graphics are top notch there are no other racing games out there that can meet it at this point 
 in time. The sound is once again THX certified so you know it has to be good.
  
  I have a steering wheel so I use that when I race, however I have also tried playing with the keyboard, 
 and have raced on the Xbox with their controller. I have to say the steering wheel takes the cake, 
 however that is just a personal bias. (I have been racing with a steering wheel since NFS 4, so 
 I am used to it however when my friends come over they want to use a controller) I did find that 
 it is hard to do drag races with the steering wheel do to the fact that you need to slam it from 
 one side to the other when you want to change lanes quickly.
  
  When it comes down to game play it plays really nicely, no hiccups trying to figure things out.
 
  
  I did have a problem with the fact that normal city cops are able to do 230 MPH and keep up with 
 a maxed out Porsche Carrera GT. I would have liked to see more realistic speeds with the cops.
 
  
  I would have also liked to see the in depth tuning that you could do on Underground 2, however 
 I was still able to tune my cars to about how I like them to handle, the one thing I wanted to 
 tune the most was the shifting times.
  
  The only other thing that I have to say EA could have done, was get better actors for the in game 
 players. Razor was just so funny to listen to, I couldn't take him seriously the whole way through 
 the game. As well as Cross the main cop, his "ALL OF THEM" part was so badly acted, I think I could 
 have done a better job.
  
  Other then those points this is one Kick arse game. Definitely worth the buy if you like racing 
 games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedHotMustang
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 22, 2006 1:15 pm PT
Review:  Get this game man.... if you loved the prevuious installments of Need For Speed (NFS) you will go 
 crazy over this one. The graphics are breath taking, distroying cop cars and other property with 
 your car is soooo fun and you dont get totaled! The missions are fun. 
  
  A little bit about this games story:
  
  You go to a town where you race this guy and your car 
 is impunded so you get a different car and you beat and race and cause a helluva huge mayhem in 
 the town till you beat all 15 Black list members (I am on the 11th guy) once you beat the guys 
 you can choose from a set of markers, they range from the rivals Car to money to help from the 
 cops even to geting you car out of the impound lot.
  
  NFS: MW is more of a free stlye driving game as in you can go anywhere you want cause as much damage 
 as you want.
  
  NOTE: NITROUS RECHARGES WHEN YOU GO FAST!
  
  The music in this game sucks that is the ionly fault for me! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guitarist_g
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 21, 2006 10:07 pm PT
Review:  This is a nicely crafted game considering the series but my fav still is NFS Porsche and will always 
 be so....
  needs a very high resolution PC for continuous and comfortable game play..
  THe increasing intelligence of the police in the game is appreciated ..
  the graphics is goood 
 .... the characters are crafted well and go good with the game...
  But the rest of the non police courses are a little turn offs..
  the damage system of cars are 
 ok but could have been better..
  all the points on the sound are the grunt of cars at the start...
  its simply awesome and the 
 gear changes is nicely crafted..
  overall its a nice game but could have been better if it had the detailed dashboard.... and the 
 usage of lesser PC resources.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kornikon
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 21, 2006 10:22 am PT
Review:  The long line of Need for Speed games carries on with this the latest installment of the franchise. 
 
  There isn't much that distinguishes this game from the Underground series but if you sit back and 
 play this game forgetting all the other Need for Speed games then you will probably enjoy this 
 game, working your way up the blacklist of street racers is pretty easy although now and again 
 a spanner is thrown in the works and you will actually have to reply a race several times before 
 you win. The most annoying of which i found to be the sprint races not so much because some of 
 them took me awhile to win but because the cars and other objects that cross your path don't change 
 no matter how many times you reply the race so its basically just remember where a car will comes 
 out or where a truck will turn so you know which lane to switch to.
  All in all ive enjoyed playing this game, although i cant say that its anything spectacular but 
 it will fill gaps of time when you have nothing better to do. Maybe its time for the Need for Speed 
 series to be laid to rest and for something new to be brought out to breathe a bit of life back 
 into this genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ahsanthekiller
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 21, 2006 7:59 am PT
Review:  
  Wake up to the smell of burnt asphalt as the thrill of illicit street racing permeates the air. 
 From the makers of the hit Need for Speed Underground series, Need for Speed Most Wanted challenges 
 players to become the most notorious and elusive street racer.
  
  Combining illicit street racing and tuner customization with the intensity of strategic police 
 pursuit that surpasses any Hollywood-style chase scene, Need for Speed Most Wanted will be on every 
 gamer's 'must-have' list this holiday season. Out-race rivals, evade cops and exploit hundreds 
 of miles of open road as gamers make their way up the Blacklist.
  
  To become the most wanted racer, players must build up their street cred and Rap Sheet with gripping, 
 white knuckle, head-to-head races with the top drivers on the streets, as well as pull daring, 
 evasive moves to out-run and out-fox the cops that patrol the open road. Players can manage their 
 heat or utilize a number of strategic tactics to keep the cops off their tails as they leave their 
 rivals behind to suck their exhaust fumes.
  
  Need for Speed Most Wanted also features a variety of the hottest cars that range from tuners to 
 super cars. You can customize your ride to race against any class of vehicles. The streets will 
 be your playground this Fall. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mkeelahi
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 21, 2006 5:54 am PT
Review:  When I finished the last NFS game NFS U2 I thought the thing it hasn't is COPS! So I was sure that 
 on next version cops will return from Hot Persuit 2. When I heard about NFS MW and return of cops 
 I realized EA is the best racing game developer. I think all the NFS fans will agree with me.
 
  I like NFS for it's arcade style gameplay. When I first played Most Wanted, it just blew my mind!!!! 
 
  The most attractive feature in this game is the Pursuit. It will give u a new experience. Simply 
 Outstanding!!! NFS series is a revolutionary racing game series.
  But there is a thing I've marked that the game has very few cinematics. More cinematics could make 
 the game much more movielike.
  I am just waiting for the next NFS game. God knows what will EA show us in their next NFS!!!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: turbo27
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 20, 2006 3:55 am PT
Review:  Rarely do I write a review for any game, but now that I rarely get any sleep due to my current 
 addiction to NFS Most Wanted... why not? This game will be the benchmark for all racing simulation 
 for a long time. The spectacular graphics and sounds are amazingly vibrant and will catch any deer 
 of guard. The cinematic and adrenaline pumping police pursuits could force producers to pull the 
 plug on Cops. 
  
  EA definitely eclipsed their past title which lacked spunk and provided plenty support as coasters. 
 NFS Most Wanted is definatley a must own title for any racing fan and a very good trainer for real 
 life felons. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fabiogarcia
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 19, 2006 10:53 am PT
Review:  The best NFS ever made!!! Great graphics and sounds... Very good acquirement ! I recommend to everyone!!! 
 Is very very cool because in this version the policemen pursues you... There are a lot of new cars 
 and a lot of new accessories. It's easy to learn and easy to play. All the action of Underground 
 and more, but without the guilty conscience... Especially if your a Need For Speed Fan. You have 
 to complete some challenges and races before you race the next person on the list. You also can 
 build up your criminal stature to become the "most notorious street racer". You can also win each 
 of the blaclist members's car after beating them, which is also a gratifying thing in this game. What 
 is also fun is that you could get your rivals vehicles after beating them, if you choose the . 
 I recomend the Black Edition for fans butif your a regular gamer just go with the regular edition. 
 I bought the black edition and was a little bit dissapointed. The extra features weren't that great. 
 Plus, you can't play the black edition online, absolutely fantastic!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jk1992
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 19, 2006 7:07 am PT
Review:  Not only it is the best game in the series, but also the best racing game ever!!! Everything in 
 the game rocks: Graphics, speed, almost like reality. And to make it even better, its a story. 
 Unlike all other NFS Games, not only racing counts, or only racing to get to the top. In NFS MW, 
 you have a mission/objective. To get revenge on Rog, who hijacked your car. As you advance in the 
 game, it gets tougher and tougher, especially with the cops whom even start using a helicopter 
 against you!
  As a summary, its the best game ever you can find. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ministerpaul
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 18, 2006 10:53 pm PT
Review:  Rarely do I write a review for any game, but now that I rarely get any sleep due to my current 
 addiction to NFS Most Wanted... why not? This game will be the benchmark for all racing simulation 
 for a long time. The spectacular graphics and sounds are amazingly vibrant and will catch any deer 
 of guard. The cinematic and adrenaline pumping police pursuits could force producers to pull the 
 plug on Cops. 
  
  EA definitely eclipsed their past title which lacked spunk and provided plenty support as coasters. 
 NFS Most Wanted is definatley a must own title for any racing fan and a very good trainer for real 
 life felons. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sam_2006
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 21, 2006 6:05 pm PT
Review:  amazing, exciting and thrilling !! Need for speed most wanted is indeed a most wanted game. graphically 
 it's the top of all need for speed series; the cars are beautifully designed and the effects of 
 speed are very stunning. the game play is very entertaining and bring lots of fun especially the 
 boost-option that makes your car flies like a missile ! really addictive. the sounds, are also 
 suitable to the game and we feel the atmosphere. In fact, Need for speed most wanted is a mater-piece 
 of its genre, and should not be missed ! I recommend it to all Need for speed fans. I loved it 
 ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gladplugin
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 18, 2006 7:55 am PT
Review:  This is one amazing game. it is cracked out to be exactly what you see. The racing is intense, 
 the storyline is great and the cars are amazing. This isn't one of those games that you can just 
 sit down and finnish in just on go. You have to plan what race's you want to do to complete the 
 amount to go against the blacklist member. You need to regularly get into cop chases to earn bounty. 
 You must also complete milestones such as get clocked by a police camera at 114 miles per hour 
 or take out 8 police cruisers in a single chase. This game is a 10 overall, it misses nothing and 
 it supplies everything and then some. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tarek75
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 18, 2006 12:48 am PT
Review:  Since nfsmw release till now i swear that this game is
  the most wanted game of all racing genre as usual ,but
  this edition is special one not because 
 the very
  attractive graphics, fonts, main menu styles, camera
  views (when playing or when showing cars) , great sound tracks
  & effects ,what really makes it 
 unique is real camera
  movement during some time in the game (such as when
  hitting the road from air ,and when police chase
  starts) , the people who noticed this very small 
 but
  great piece of art is really really not only knowing
  what they are doing, but they are pushing it to the
  edge of reality ,have u ever noticed the 
 difference
  between shooting a movie clip with your cam coder and
  the shooting done by real movies that shows in
  theaters, have noticed the glitch in your home
 
  movie... yes that's it... they made nfsmw most real by
  simulating this difference to make u feel really
  inside a real car ,real imagination and for 
 sure very
  good idea and i expect other games will try to
  simulate something like this real soon, well till
  then... nfsmw is the real deal and the most 
 wanted
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rishi_1989
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 16, 2006 11:09 pm PT
Review:  Its the best game i have ever played 
  the environments r the best the effects r awesome too good game for the generation of today. The 
 best part of the game is the cops who come chasing n the traps laid r just too good i had a very 
 good time playing this game. The graphics r very good . Its better than F1 i feel .However the 1 
 st time it will be difficult for amateur players but once u get the control the game is amazing 
 the sounds r very good the best part of the game is the blurring effect which makes the game overall 
 a complete package for playing
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: karatedog
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 14, 2006 5:50 am PT
Review:  NFS MW is so irritating, it should be banned, and developers should be castrated. Seriously!
  
  If there's something I really hate in a game is when my movement gets limited, or if I get 
 pushed to or over something. Thereof NFS MS is not my favorite game. To say the least. It has way 
 to little to do with racing, or driving. But at least it's annoying. 
  
  I would lie if I said I didn't have fun with this game. It's a nice arcade game, I understand why 
 so many people like it. But the final parts are really annoying. It's kind of feels like a different 
 game. Like the (not one, but two) 30 minutes chases. Those are overly irritating, tedious and useless.
 
  
  On the other hand NFS MW is not a racing game by any mean. It doesn't prize racing at all. If you 
 go faster than a car will always come in front of you in the blind turns. And you WILL miss the 
 50th speedbreaker, and the 110th white Corvette will eventually push you into an unmovable object 
 (most likely a wreck of another Corvette) . And so on. If it doesn't gets you angry sooner or later 
 then you are dead already. 
  
  So just like I said before, racing is a completely different experience, than the one that NFS 
 MW has to offer. I still beat the game and gained 100% all 3 parts of it. So mine is an informed 
 dismissal. But a dismissal indeed.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: harry3888
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 16, 2006 1:20 pm PT
Review:  I Got the Need For Speed!
  This game is superb, it has hundreds of hours worth of game play including the new challenge series. 
 Throughout the NFS series EA has continually been giving us excellent racing games, this game deserves 
 a far better title than excellent, it has tons of new features the biggest being the... Drum Roll 
 Please... POLICE! Yes thats right police. In my opinion this is the most fun aspect of the game.
 
  
  Aspects of the police chases are phenomenal! They include SUVS
  Light and heavy, 6 different heat levels starting from a simple civic cruiser right up to undercover 
 federal cruiser accompanied by an aggressive chopper and of course they included roadblocks of 
 all kinds including spike strips (very annoying) .
  
  As far as racing goes it takes home the gold.
  With several sorts of races (drag, circuit, sprint, 
 tollbooth, lap knockout and speed trap) this game cant go wrong!
  
  The NFS series has a proud trade mark of doing up your car visually and stats wise.
  I think 
 its fair to say that they have kept that trade mark.
  You can apply decals, custom gauges, vinyls, window tint, rim colour and paint.
  You can also 
 apply body kits, spoilers, rims, hoods, roof scoops.
  Performance upgrades are very good featuring in 3 different levels (pro, super pro and ultimate) 
 as well as the new junkman level which can only be bought with markers. 
  
  Unfortunately NFSW doesnt have as good customisation to your car as NFSU2 did. 
  
  The story 
 is pretty ordinary, you start off as a wannabe racer that works your way up to the top of the blacklist 
 (15 in total) meeting a girl named Mia who just happens to be an undercover police officer.
  
  This game is superb, it is a must get game at all costs!
  
  Ben
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fabioshinichi
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 16, 2006 4:21 am PT
Review:  Well, the first time you play Need for Speed Most Wanted you notice a lot of changes, specially 
 the graphics. After that first impressions you also notice that the race system changed a bit, 
 as you won't find roaming adversaries to challenge right away.
  
  In fact I think that the game system got much better as you won't have to drive to the locations 
 to start the races. And also you can choose which one you wanna race and which you don't want.
 
  
  But the great addition is the police pursuit! That improved the game action to high levels as you 
 must have bounty on your head in order to challenge the Blacklist members. And as the heat level 
 increases the police becomes more aggressive and uses better cars, including a helicopter!!
  
  Although at the beginning of the game you will find it extremely easy to beat the adversaries, 
 the difficulty becomes awesome at later stages, don't think you'll beat Blacklist #1 with a stock 
 car tuned to maximum!
  
  All that said, Need for Speed Most Wanted is the best os NFS series and will keep you occupied 
 for long hours of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vufor
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 15, 2006 11:39 pm PT
Review:  I would choose this game without any doubt to enjoyment. I suppose this game is the best car racing 
 game ever made. The purpose why I say that, because from the beginning to its just seems so cool 
 and bold with underground life style and shows truly what happens in night streets of whole big 
 cities. Graphic of the game is the revolutionary pass the present game graphic with it environment 
 and the well-designed cars. 
  Of course developers didnt just stop on the graphic, game play also astonishing and making the 
 best of it. Amazingly to the game has been added a few spec effects such as slo-mo (slow-motion) 
 also when you use nitro all environment around your car became distorted and it makes this effect 
 more realistic. 
  The most specific difference between other series is the police on this one. As you getting more 
 rating on the Black List as it harder become to resist to the cops. And that is how you became 
 MOST WANTED 
  ******Enjoy!******
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: YankeeFreak51
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 15, 2006 8:20 pm PT
Review:  Guys this is probally one of the best racing games ever for gamecube!!!! great graphics, gameplay 
 and creativity. Outrunning the cops is extremely exciting; outstanding sound effects; sharp graphics; 
 tones down some of the over-the-top product placement found in the previous nfs games; mindblowing 
 full-motion video cutscenes. EA tops themselves again, which isn't hard to do, believe me. After 
 a great game in Need for Speed Underground 2, EA adds cop chases and of course another hot broad 
 to Need for Speed Most Wanted. Tons of different races, cars, and upgrades to choose from and unlock. 
 Currently running a Chevy Cobalt SS as my goal is to beat this game the first time w/American produced 
 cars only. Lots of unlocks add to the fun factor for me as well.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HousHmandzadeH
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 15, 2006 7:07 pm PT
Review:  EA tops themselves again, which isn't hard to do, believe me. After a great game in Need for Speed 
 Underground 2, EA adds cop chases and of course another hot broad to Need for Speed Most Wanted. 
 I own this for PC and its a ton of fun. A sim it is not as there is no way a Chevy Cobalt can do 
 180 in the real world and take 90 degree turns at well over a buck-10. But it has a tremendous 
 arcade feel to it. The cars aren't as customizable as NFSU2 but they are sweeter, in my opinion. 
 Lamborghini's and Porsche's make their return to the series after an extended absence, and are 
 welcomed back by me. Comparing this to all other NFS titles would not do this game justice.
  
  GRAPHICS: 10/10
  The PC version's graphics are amazing of course if you have a good enough 
 video card. I run on a barely overclocked eVGA 6800 w/an Athlon XP 3000+ processor at 1024 GB RAM. 
 Not the best gaming rig but more than enough for this game. My favorite graphic detail is the raindrops 
 on the screen. They can throw you off if they land in the right spot and distort your field of 
 vision at 180 mph.
  
  GAMEPLAY: 9/10
  Tons of different races, cars, and upgrades to choose from and unlock. Currently running a Chevy 
 Cobalt SS as my goal is to beat this game the first time w/American produced cars only. Lots of 
 unlocks add to the fun factor for me as well.
  
  PRESENTATION: 8/10
  If you love cinema scenes, this ain't for you. Sure there are some but not enough of Josie Moran. 
 The scenes that are in this one are pretty good however and rendered beautifully, with a definite 
 look of "is it real or fake, I can't really tell". The game menus are easy to navigate through 
 as well. Im not a big fan of the EA trax so I just have iTunes running in the background. See thats 
 where that 1024 GB RAM comes in handy.
  
  FUN FACTOR: 9/10
  If your a fan of the NFS series, you will not be disappointed. The races are never over with the 
 "rubberband" AI which can also be a pain in the butt when your coming through the last corner of 
 a race w/a 5 second lead and scrape a wall and all of a sudden here comes second place to steal 
 the win. Trust me it will happen to you. 
  
  REPLAYABLITY: ?
  Only because Im on my first run through but I already missed a couple things at the 25% mark that 
 I cant go back and do.
  
  Well all I can say about this one is if you are an NFS gamer, get it tomorrow. If not get it when 
 the price drops. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gsharad007
Rating: 5.9
Date: Jan 15, 2006 11:14 am PT
Review:  i liked this game. i have played all the need for speed games to date but somehow i feel the last 
 three games are basically the same. they add the same stuff and then remove it in later game. best 
 game among the last three games was probably Underground 2. this game just removes a whole lot 
 of stuff specially the very good car tuning part from that game.
  
  Graphics are a whole new level. very nice. i love all the effects specially the water effects when 
 u hit a water bucket on highways. graphics are definately going in the right direction. only problem 
 is on a low end machine this game looks worse than need for speed 3 : hot pursuit.
  
  Music is love it hate it type depending on ur choice of music. i wud have rather liked more hard 
 metal. otherwise the sounds and music are of impeccable quality.
  
  Gameplay is just too childish. i wud have preffered a much more realistic physics with more accurate 
 car representation. need for speed porsche unleashed should be reborn. please everybody now craves 
 for as real as possible driving experience. if i take a guess the target audience set for the designers 
 of this game was probably 13 and lower. also everything in this game is just a console clone. man 
 people with computers hate it. if one wanted a console like game on wud get a console version and 
 play it there. pc guys dont need console clones. please EA get rid of porting console games onto 
 pc's. well now for the good part. this game is still quite enjoyable. though even b4 half the game 
 is over u start getting bored.
  
  there is hardly any choice in cars. always there is one car better than the others. nobody in his 
 sane mind gonna buy the bad cars. car parts is a totally diff story. there is no choice good or 
 bad. man come on give atleast some choice between diffrent parts. learn something from ur past. 
 need for speed porche unleashed. 
  
  AI well wat can i say. ai is typically non existant. for example i am doing 200 on the highway 
 and police cars easily swarm around me like i am doing 30. y the hell am i taking so much pain 
 customizing my own car and illegally driving it. if i am going to jail i rather boot a police car 
 and do the driving. other race drivers get riducules speeds at any time and they break for no apparent 
 reason to let us pass. 
  
  drags are once again a nuisance. there are instances where i cant drive on to lanes computer drivers 
 take. like this drag race a van turn in the track in a two lane part. i after 16 tries cudnt get 
 past it without totalling my car either lane i took. i slowed my car and found the computer cars 
 taking dirt roads which i cudnt get on to at all. i actully had to slow my car down to win that 
 race. now isnt that strategy ;-) . ai cars never total and when u do total they take like 2 mins 
 to finish a 30 sec track. doesnt it make u feel the whole world is out ot get u.
  
  conclusion.
  graphics : gr8
  sound/muic : gr8
  gameplay : enjoyable for 15 mins
  ai : none 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gandria
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jan 15, 2006 11:01 am PT
Review:  If we compare GTA San Andreas and NFSMW they're many differences. The lack of realism of NFSMW 
 in evident. No people in the streets... when the car crash onto a wall at 260 km/h or 200 mph the 
 car stays intact! But the front windows cracks a bit eheh. The lack of realism is for me the worst 
 point of this game. The graphics... are really good in fact, but a game isn't only graphics. The 
 sound is good for people who like hip pop or rap... there is the exception of Prodigy in the sound 
 track but quite of the same style of the precedent NFS. 
  The plot isnt new... a great girl that catch the atention of the traditional costumers of this 
 kind of game... a hero (that is a boy) like the costumer of this game should be and many cars racing... 
 and if the cops are something new... let me ask you something, did you played Road Rash? One of 
 the greatest games with cops&races. 
  
  But the time passes and memory fades away.
  
  When i compare GTA San Andreas and NFSMW it's because one of this two games is the most brilliant 
 game made ever. We run after the cops we kill... we run away from the cops we race we fly... and 
 so on.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoshTheJest
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 13, 2006 12:46 pm PT
Review:  I am running this game on a Pentium 4 3.2GHz with Hyperthreading, 1GB of DDR400 Ram, Geforce 6800 
 GT OC 256MB, and my 19 inch LG Flat Panel LCD. I am running the game at near top settings, and 
 it looks and runs flawlessly. I really enjoy the customization options as well as the magnitude 
 of cars available to me. Online play is satisfactory and keeps me entertained at times. Thankfully 
 they brought back the police in this version, and they are prepared to use a plethera of tactics 
 to bring you down including spike strips, helocopters, and a special squad using beefed up cars. 
 The game adds realism by using real characters in the cutscenes as well as voicemail and text messages 
 that are recieved by actors in the game. This game isn't just about racing, it is about being a 
 part of a story and winning your way to the top of the black list. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stiff_myster
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 13, 2006 5:03 am PT
Review:  well i love what EA games has done!! they have given speed to the game, im not talkin about the 
 nos. Im talking about the cars they have put in it and the patroles are superb in the game. It's 
 like a real game if u break the laws u get chased by the patrole and u have to pay for it!!! and 
 that's not just it. Well they have made the graphic's superb in this game and that also in dere 
 first day game of need for speed and they have put damaged if u'll haven't noticed the paint gets 
 scrached and the windows r heavily craked not only the front by the side mirrow's too! well all 
 i can say tht it is an awesome game and people if u want to play a fast and technical game which 
 u can do alomost every and anythin well get this game!!! PEACE 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mchudo
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jan 12, 2006 1:12 pm PT
Review:  I like the whole NFS series, including NFS Underground, first one. The Most wanted is the real 
 thing with superb graphics, nice music but not so big choice of it, so you often hear the same 
 sounds. If you intend to play this game in its best output, you need extremely powerful computer 
 and graphic card, otherwise you'll have to choose whether reduce graphics and play an ordinary 
 racing game, or be prepared to play slooooooow. 
  Overall: very nice, but this was the first time that I thought about console....
  10 for gameplay 
 coz I like police chases soooo much
  8 for graphics, because it takes too much resources - THEY are waiting for your next big upgrade...
 
  8 for sound - don'like hearing the same track so often
  8 for value - worth of it, of course
  8 for tilt - disappointed with system requirements.... 
 again and again... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MOH_ROUSHDY
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 12, 2006 6:40 am PT
Review:  Hello EA team.. Gamespot mates and I have gathered most of NFSMW advantages and disavantages... We 
 are tellin' you about them because we love EA games and we hope that it will always be the best... Now 
 let me tell you the...
  
  Advantages:
  ------------------
  1- all stuff are in one store.
  2- wide roads rather than previous versions!.
  3- performance 
 tunning is much more easier than prev versions.
  4- High gains from races.
  5- speed breaker makes decisions in serious situations better!.
  6- pursuits are much more exciting 
 more than before.. It's WOW.
  7- handling is nice in some cases specially on high speeds.
  8- scenario is so great.
  
 
  
  Disadvantages:
  ----------------------
  1- keeping running from police after finishing races!.
  2- taking curves on MEDIUM speeds makes 
 cars roll and rotate even if i reduce the car hight and reduce airodynamics as well!
  3- police AI isn't so good.
  4- catch up is bad in some races.
  5- no drift races and no style 
 points.
  6- too much traffic in DRAG races.. It makes it so hard to be played!.
  7- traffic vehicles apear suddenlly in serious situations like curves and narrow streets!.
  8- 
 unrealistic physics.
  9- no replay ... we really need the replay option.
  10- a lack of customizability in the visualization department and there is no style points on visualization.
 
  11- cameratrap races have some bugs.
  12- some tollbooth races are TOO difficult to be beaten!.
  
  Well.. That's all i guess!. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PeterTheGeek
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 11, 2006 9:05 pm PT
Review:  Need for Speed Most Wanted had what most earlier version of this game was missing. A real story 
 with a real plot. I loved the phone calls and Sargent Cross had the best lines. I hope the next 
 Need for Speed will keep this aspect of the game up. The cops in this game are relentless. If you 
 liked Need for Speed: Hot Pursuit II, you will love this one. As always the driving is front and 
 center. A very playable and realistic driving simulator that has evolved over the years. Tons of 
 fun! I really like the mix of cars that are in this one. Everything from the smallest front wheel 
 drive car to the $1 M super cars. You get to drive them all. Good job EA, keep up the good work. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xwolfghost
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 11, 2006 4:53 pm PT
Review:  Need for Speed Most Wanted mixes both the Underground game with their earlier cop style games. 
 You don't loose the feel for either of the games so its a perfect mix. The only downside with the 
 underground part of the game is that they took away alot of the custimization options you have 
 with your car. But you don't really have time to notice it when your running from a good 30 cops 
 that are using strateigic moves to bring you down.
  
  If your a fan of the older Need for Speed and now how the cop capture system works then you will 
 notice that EA has kept alot of the same consept of it in Most Wanted. While you are driving in 
 the free-rome mode you see a small bar on the top of the screen. It will turn green when cops are 
 close by and point in the direction that the cop car is. A new small feature that has been added 
 is when you are seen by a cop every thing in the world will stop and the screen will zoom into 
 the cop car CSI style. You can still hear the cops talking on their radios so that you can hear 
 wear they place the spike stripes or roadblockes. When in a cop chase mod there will be a bar at 
 the bottom of the screen that tells you how many cars you have swaped paint with (hitting the car) , 
 how many cars you have disable, and how many cars are chasing you. Just below that it tells you 
 how close you are to losing the cops or how close you are to being caught.
  
  The racing style has changed in alot of ways by how you advance through the racing. Unlike in the 
 Underground games, you have a blacklist. Its a list of the most wanted racers. In order to race 
 the blacklist racer, you have to complete milestones. They involve you to both race and get chased 
 by cops. Races are marked around the map and you must drive to the marker to start the race. In 
 a cop chase there will be a small box in the top right corner of the screen. It will show you what 
 you have to do to complete the milestones. There are things such as swaping paints, passing through 
 a number of roadblocks, destroying a number of cop cars, passing through a number of spike strips, 
 property damage, and the make the chase last for a certain amount of time.
  
  In chases there are cooldown times. Its when you have lost every cop car and they are scatering 
 the area trying to find you. This time is when you look the map for hiding spots which makes the 
 cooldown time pass faster. If you are trying to break a record then this is a bad thing. If the 
 cooldown time runs out then the next time you get in a chase every thing will reset. Another new 
 cop chase option is damage locations. These are location were you can loose the cops by bring down 
 a large tower destroying the cars. This is usefull for taking out that last car you can't loose. 
 When you are caught you must pay a fine our use a marker that you get when beating a backlist racer.
 
  
  All in all this game brings lots of new features and still keeps the good old features of the older 
 games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: praharsh22
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 11, 2006 6:51 am PT
Review:  ONE CAN"T STOP PLAYING THE GAME!
  
  This game is without doubt the best in the series and one may say that the best racing game from 
 all the games that have come up till now. EA has shown what it's capable of doing. The car does 
 suffer damage in this one and is, thank god, not like NFSUG2 where the car will not suffer damage 
 even if it falls down from the cliff ! 
  
  The graphics are extremely good. It is absolutely fun to play the game. Everything is perfect in 
 the game and nobody shall get bored playing it. THIS GAME ROCKS ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JhonCena5
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jan 11, 2006 4:46 am PT
Review:  Gameplay - 
  
  Speaking on the gameplay in Need for Speed Series there is nothing more you can find than than 
 driving your car but in this version you can use "Speedbreaker" now that is something that changes 
 the game but then the game is seriously weak in tuning mode. In this version you can find a whole 
 new stock of cars which is very good but you cannot find the high performing cars from NFS Underground 
 2 like Skyline and more, which would have made the game even more better. Now a light on racing 
 modes - 
  NFS Most Wanted - Circuit, Sprint, Drag, Speedtrap and Lap Knockout.
  NFS Underground - Circuit, Sprint, Drag, Drift, Street X, Underground Racing League, Free Run.
 
  
  Now comparing both the games there is Speedtrap which is very good but the game does'nt have Drift, 
 Street X, Free Run. From my view Drift is good and should be there, Street X is not there because 
 the story mode does not include any sponsors which is lacking in the game, Free Run this was a 
 must in this type of game because there is cop chase and we have to do it in Story Mode and then 
 if we get busted we get impound so Free Run was a must in this game and the racing modes are superb 
 on the PSP.
  
  Graphics - 
  
  Because of a new technique used for daylight by game designers the graphics are just out of control 
 on a high end pc like mine but if you run the game on low graphics on a simple pc the graphics 
 are not so cool the game is not for running on simple pc or for low graphics.
  
  Sound - 
  
  The music is good but not addictive except some sound effetcs. There should be 
 an option for playing our own music in the game that can make the game rating get increased.
  
  Value - 
  
  Value in real the price of the game ok, the A. I. and all the cop chase is taking 
 game to an other world. The game has such a BiG drawback and is a big flop in customization except 
 Performance, Part like body kits, spoiler, etc.... are limited and visuals are ok but no neons 
 and all that stuff from Underground 2. I hope that in next version for NFS series the game has 
 both day and night mode and all stuff from Most Wanted and Underground 2 also some sponserships 
 (Greddy, Sparco, etc...) in story mode. And please EA can make even a better storyline than this 
 one which is not based on some cheating by a punk known Clarence Callahan "RAZOR".
  Last but not the least the game is a must buy.
  
  Tilt - 
  
  EA is sure making GAMERs addictive 
 in one or the other way i expect that EA sure makes the next version a more good. Please buy this 
 game if you are having a high end PC. I hope that we gamers here in india can have some more tournaments 
 and gaming stuff in a country like INDIA cause we here have nothing. Please contact me im a hardcore 
 gamer i have PSP, PS2, XBOX, HIGH - END PC, GAMEBOY SP and going to buy XBOX 360 soon.
  By Mannan Sandhu
  ID - mannan_legend@yahoo. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: make_x
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 10, 2006 9:22 pm PT
Review:  dame ... this game ROCK's .. it has the best Graphic's and Sound and the other aspectes of the 
 game .. but i dont know about you guys if you have thought about one thing wrong in the game but 
 .. where is the Neon pimp'in thing like in underground 2 or may be the sissor doors and hood's 
 and the sound system ... other than that i have completly nothing else to say about the game ... 
 but i will always think .. How would a limborghini look like with Neon ?? OH ... where the F**k 
 is the skyline GT- R i cant find it in the game ... i hopped that i could get to play with it agains 
 a GT car like limborghini or may be the SLR !! well that is my disapointments of the game . hope 
 that all the car pimper's like the game .. cuz i did .. and now i am the Most wanted player ....... hahah... 
 on my PC ofcorse ..!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djnet
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 10, 2006 2:39 pm PT
Review:  The game actually has a great story hook at the beginning that makes you want to see the career 
 mode through to completion. The early story segments are told through some sort of unholy mixture 
 of computer-generated cars and full-motion video actors. The acting in these early segments is 
 awful... awful good, that is. You'll scratch your head and wonder if these segments are intentionally 
 bad and meant to be played for laughs or if they're just unintentionally funny. Either way, they're 
 great. Unfortunately, after a brief prologue, you stop seeing video sequences, and the story is 
 conveyed via voicemails from various characters. Are you a cop? Will you get to utter the magic 
 street racing words, "Mia, I am a cop"? Or is the plot twist even more painfully obvious than that? 
 You'll have to see the story through to find out where everyone's allegiances lie. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MOH_MAX
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 10, 2006 12:00 pm PT
Review:  ITS GREET GAME .
  I DON'T BELIEVE THAT.
  JUST THE FAST AND THE MORE POWERFUL CAN WIN IN THE RACE
  POLICE SAY YOU ARE THE MOST WANTED MAN.
 
  HE GRAPHICS IS FANTASTIC +10 LIGHT AND SHADOW AND CAR AND CITY ARE REAL MORE THAN THE REAL LIFE, FOG 
 AND RAIN 
  NOS AND THE FAST EMOTION.
  SOUNDS ARE SUPER DYNAMIC IN THE GAME +10 
  AND MUSIC SOUNDS SIGN MAKE YOU HEAR THE GAME 
  GAME PLAY ARE DYNAMIC AND MAKE YOU HAVE THE RIDE 
 +10
  JUMP AND DRIFT AND CRASHED ARE REAL HELICOPTER MAKE YOU FARE AND BIG CAR POLICE , AND DON'T FORGET 
 (BREAK DOWN ) SLOW EMOTION IS YOUR KEY AND THE (NOS) MAKE YOU FAST TO RUN AWAY AND ESCAPE .
  I THINK ITS ONE OF TH BEST GAMES IN THE YEAR +10
  
  ITS NEED FOR SPEED MOST WANTED
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jedo
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 11, 2006 2:42 am PT
Review:  Foreword
  
  The need for speed Most Wanted is the 9th game in the NFS racing game series. Thats quite a legacy, 
 dont you think? After the release of the movie The Fast and the Furious, the NFS family turned 
 into a new riverbed. The high performance Italian cars disappeared and in their place came the 
 buffed up Japanese neon lighters. After the release of Xbox360 an amount of "next-gen" games (that 
 are half-games and half-promotional items) have been released. The NFS MW is one of them and it 
 returns some of the true NFS key features while still keeping to the hype. 
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  You play as a new kid in town. You were just starting a successful illegal racing career, when 
 during one of the races one of the drivers messed with your ride and you loose. He gets your car 
 and you get busted. However, youre released because of a lack of evidence (or is there a different 
 reason..?) and now have to work your way up the racing ladder to get your revenge and your car. 
 
  
  The racing ladder is a 15-name black list where to challenge each driver you have to prove yourself 
 first. How? Well, by taking part in different illegal races and getting a bigger bounty on your 
 head of course. You start on your path with little money with which you have to buy a new car. 
 The more you win, the more money you earn and the more stuff is unlocked. By stuff I mean parts 
 of the map, cars and different parts for them. 
  
  There are 32 cars in the normal edition of NFS MW and, I believe, about 50 in the Black Edition. 
 They range from Lamborghinis to Volkswagen. Here truly you see that NFS returns to its pre-the-fast-and-the-furious 
 style, reintroducing European racing cars. There's a car for every taste though. Of course if you 
 want to stay competitive you'll eventually be forced to buy one of the next types.
  
  Tweaking your vehicle is done in three departments: visual, performance and parts. Although there 
 are many things you can do to your car, customization has taken some steps back from the last NFS 
 game. It became a lot less detailed. Instead of choosing each bumper and side mirror individually 
 there are several full body kits for each car. Smaller (but important nevertheless) things like 
 headlights can no longer be changed at all, and there are no bottom neon lights anymore. Some parts, 
 like the spoilers or rims, can still be chosen separately though. 
  
  You race on a single city map, some parts of which are unlocked as you progress through your campaign. 
 The city features dynamic traffic and plenty of things that you can destroy with your car. During 
 races your car kind of reminds a tank that cuts through light posts and containers with no problem. 
 The damage your car is taking is superficial, reserved to some paint scratches and glass cracking. 
 During races most of the roads are closed off and there are but a few short-cuts left (which do 
 help your victory if you find them) . There are all kinds of races, from drag racing, where you 
 have to manually switch gears as you fly between the traffic, to time trials set between road tolls. 
 Theres a little problem here that might annoy some people: during drag races the traffic can be 
 predicted after going through it a couple of times. The whole thing becomes a trial-and-error challenge. 
 Besides the campaign, theres also a set of increasingly difficult challenges and a quick-race 
 mode.
  
  After getting bored with the single player, theres a multiplayer. The campaign wont offer much 
 after youre done with it. Unlike the previous two NFS games, there are no one-on-one races where 
 you can just challenge a rival car on the road. If you want to race, you have to complete the already 
 completed challenges again or go to quick-race mode.
  
  The NFS Most Wanted features the return of the police force, and its one of the games central 
 features at that. There are several levels of pursuit. The longer you evade the police and the 
 more damage you make, the more cops there will be and the stronger are the measures which they 
 will take. At the highest level you will be tracked by helicopters, there will be police blocks, 
 road spikes etc. Some challanges are completed, as well as bounty points are gained, by speeding, 
 destroying property and other ways of being an *sshole. The police talks on the radio, and their 
 talking actually makes a lot of sense as they coordinate their pursuit, reporting what car the 
 suspect (you) is in and where youre headed. Thats a nice change to the generic police talk track 
 that is used in most movies (and some games) that, as you mightve noticed, hasnt changed since 
 the 60s. To evade the police you can ram through several constructions which will either destroy 
 the police cars behind you or at least slow them down (and occasionally neither) . Once you have 
 evaded the police, you must go through a cool-down period before the cops will give up their search. 
 Thats easier to do in one of the hiding places marked on your map. If the heat of cops gets too 
 high on one of your vehicles, you can drive another, so the first one can be forgotten. After getting 
 busted three times in the same vehicle, your car gets impounded for quite a while so you better 
 have a substitute. NFS MW really emphasizes illegal activity. Theres even a rap sheet that tracks 
 all your violations. The only thing missing for a full-fledged war is a loaded gun or two.
  
  The problem with the cops in NFS MW is that in order to have some fun with them youll need 
 to get to the highest level and then slow your car down a little. The AI, as interesting as it 
 is, is too easy. However the combination of exciting dynamic music, police chat and high speed 
 makes the chase very exciting, nevertheless.
  
  Whats a high budget game without downsides? The cut-scenes in game feature real people acting 
 really badly. Maybe the act will look ok to those who liked the movie Torque, but generally the 
 actors (especially Razor) sound rather fake. Maybe its just that their macho attitude sounds so 
 distasteful. Another thing, that was already annoying back in NFS Underground, is that theres 
 only one save-game for each profile that you use. I think we can agree that thats not only rather 
 risky but also not convenient. 
  
  SOUND
  
  Is very remarkable. We usually dont really notice how good or bad the sound is in games, but 
 NFS MW is an exception. Starting with the engine sound of each car that is noticeably different 
 and really sounds like a super car (which is the whole point) . Watching a few cut-scenes felt like 
 watching a DVD with surround sound.
  
  Music is dominated by heavy rock with rap and techno mixed in. Youll hear bands like Disturbed 
 and Celldweller. NFS people made some good music choices to fit the theme of the game. The music 
 during cop chases is also quite dynamic, which makes the whole thing all the more exciting. 
  
  VISUALS
  
  NFS MW looks the way you might expect from so called Next-gen games. The center 
 of the jewel is the reflection system. Most noticeable, of course, are the cars complex reflections. 
 However, the game goes further than that. The pavement also reflects the sun. Theres also some 
 complex shadowing involved, although it's not really noticable. The rain in NFS MW is probably 
 the best looking ever in the history of gaming. However some things could be improved like the 
 foliage of the trees that still follows the old pixely technique where a couple of flat layers 
 of foliage are stuck to the trees. Other cars in the game look absolutely dull compared to your 
 big **s bling-bling-mobile. Although thats maybe for the best, otherwise the low-end machines 
 would never be able to run the game. 
  
  The cut-scenes feature real actors in a computer generated enviroment. That actually works really 
 well. The thing here is that in our age where B-class actors can be replaced with good-looking 
 computer-generated models, this whole concept is somewhat abundant.
  
  There are many effects in the NFS like for example the blur during high speeds. The camera is used 
 well. For example, when a police car is spotted, the action freezes and the camera closes in on 
 the police car (this kind of reminds the movie Matrix) . When you win a race, the camera rotates 
 and takes a picture of your car. Whether you crash during drag racing or jump in the air, the camera 
 is there to slow down and capture the moment. Also other smaller things like menus and loading 
 screens have all been seriously worked on. Seeing NFS MW is like riding a rollercoaster inside 
 some wonder-dome. Round and roundSo many flashy colors 
  
  PERFORMANCE
  
  I was rather surprised that the minimum requirements for this game were so... minimum. Taking into 
 account its looks, I was amazed to find out that I could run the game with the settings maxed out 
 on my old P 2 GHz system. It was slow, but doable.
  
  MW shipped with several bugs, however. The newest patches havent fixed them all. Theres a particularly 
 annoying issue with the game suddenly slowing down to a slide-show speed even on the most powerful 
 PCs. It happens now and then, and whether it recovers to normal speed depends on the games mood. 
 
  
  THE VERDICT
  
  NFS Most Wanted is a crossing between all of its previous games, put to a new graphical and sound 
 level. The police chases bring a new life into the game and are interesting even though the cops 
 are easy to escape from if you do it right. The game has performance issues and some NFS Undergound 
 fans might be disappointed with the customization drawback. However, NFS fans in general should 
 surely be pleased.
  
  Personal thoughts
  
  And now a few subjective ideas I wanted to state. The game features some adverts yet again. Gamespot 
 leaders and some other folks seem to have a problem with that. I think that it makes the game better... more 
 realistic. Im also all for the promotions of music artists during the game. I found several awesome 
 bands (that I listen to now) through NFS Underground and NFS Most Wanted. In future I hope to see 
 more commercials in NFS games.
  
  I was also very happy to find out cars like Lamborghini and BMW back in the game. I like Mitsubishi, 
 but I couldnt stand that Japanese hype copied over from The Fast and the Furious that was so noticeable 
 in the previous games. I do not consider many of those small cheap cars to be real cars, no matter 
 what you stick in them. Putting flashy rims and golden paint on a VW Golf to show off is cheap, 
 man. 
  
  I was also disappointed at the lack of night time. Dont you think that illegal racing in a big 
 city is more fun at night with all the flashy city lights and emptier streets?
  
  A little something I didnt like about the storyline. The storyline itself is nice but I dont 
 like being the fool who left his car unattended so Razor messed with it and made me loose. Then 
 theres some cop who scratched my car. In real life Id probably sue his ass to kingdom come. I 
 dont like playing for an amateur. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RE4GOD
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 10, 2006 6:32 am PT
Review:  When i first layed eyes on Most Wanted it was like Hot Pursuit all over again. But seening them 
 add in elements for underground series really turned it around for me.
  
  The game starts off like the past 2 Underground games, your this new guy trying to earn some money 
 only to get screwed by some 'superstar'. You meet a chick, bah bah bah. then buy a car, and start 
 racing. So after all that you have to gain rep and work your way up the Blacklist to get your car 
 back.
  
  Sounds boring eh?
  
  After al that the game opens it self up, with nice shape graphix, awesome detail, and so over-the-top 
 stunts. Need for Speed Most Wanted is really the Best N4S game to date! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pkr1991
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 9, 2006 5:16 pm PT
Review:  Hmm what can i say about Need For Speed Most Wanted? I knew this game would be great sence all 
 the great times ive had with previous Need For Speed Games but now in this Need For Speed they 
 put you as a Street Racer that lost it all trying to work yourself back up the blacklist for respect 
 and to get back at the person who you lost your car from {Razor} To any uber gamer to a weekend 
 warrior they will instantly enjoy this game right away. When i first played this game i was very 
 much impressed with it. It seemed like a really easy game but once i got farther and farther it 
 got harder and harder. Yet there is no difficulty option to choose which makes a perfect game like 
 all of them should be. Throughout the game you will be tensed and thrilled with all the intense 
 racing. One mess up could mean the end! With its Need For Speed Underground Graphics blows you 
 away with its dinamic sound! The biggest twist of all they did in this game is they took the street 
 racing feel and mixed it with the old school cops and robber feel to blend in for a pure instant 
 classic. So grab your joypad or racing wheel and go get em!
  
  Recommened graphics card - any 2004-2006 AGP or PCI-E if your motherboard only supports PCI then 
 just get a ATI Radeon 9250 it runs the game smooth on medium detail {with 512-1Gig ram and a 2.0+ 
 Proccesor} 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ownald
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 9, 2006 6:07 am PT
Review:  My question before I've downloaded the demo was: Is it too extreme..? I my answer after playing 
 a while is YES! It is too extreme. Why?? Well the Nitro for an example, using a little bit turn 
 the car into a rocket and the world turn into a blurry one, too blurry. And I don't like that. 
 But that doesn't matter because the gameplay is just fantastic! Finally the police returns! That 
 means: new game-modes, and some lovely crashes. CRASHES?!? Well no, there's still no damage added 
 to the game. Only the police cars can get total-loss and that's everything... 
  
  Next point is the sound, and I have one word for that: GRRRREEEAAT! The engine of the cars sounds 
 like an engine, since I'm a carfreak, I LIKE THAT!! Putting your finger on the throttle-button 
 makes every headset wild. It's a pleasure for your eyes. 10/10 for the sound, that's clear. The 
 handling is as always good, NFS rocks on that part. Online makes the game active, and the network 
 system is better then before, good job EA!
  
  My conclusion: It's too extreme but that's the only problem. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: patserman
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 9, 2006 3:30 am PT
Review:  The new speester in EA's successful series combines the tuner customization of Need for Speed Underground 
 with an expanded take on the police chases of the Need for Speed: Hot Pursuit series. The game 
 will feature a Rap Sheet option that works hand in hand with a player's street reputation as they 
 move up from the "Black List" to the A-List. Users will also be able to go head-to-head with their 
 opponents while simultaneously trying to avoid more than six different police cars at once through 
 a dynamically changing open-ended world. Get your car peaked for outrunning the po-po by customizing 
 your muscle cars, supercars, tuners, and sports cars.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: revelation09
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 7, 2006 7:41 pm PT
Review:  since NFS: HP2 I havent really enjoyed a racing game. I loved the cops and the cars. The cars in 
 so many of the games were all cars you had to put $5000 just to make them look desent.... now dont 
 get me wrong i like some of them but i like lamboginis and corvets so much better. the cop chases 
 are the best part of the game each one is different and getting away in certain hidding spots is 
 a blast. The Campaign will take any where from 15-25 hours depending on how much you do. Multiplayer 
 is fun.... nothing special but decent.
  
  Only improvments would be to allow cop/car chases in multiplayer like in NFS: HP2
  
  But over 
 all amazing game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: taviner2006
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 7, 2006 2:19 pm PT
Review:  First things first, this game truly looks the best on a high end pc or a middle end pc with a decent 
 agp or pci-e graphics card, anything lower than say a 5500 or a 9600 truly does ruin your gaming 
 experience! But enough of that, youve bought the game, so whats all the commotion about you ask??
 
  Well this isnt your average Need For Speed game, you see the kind gentlemen at EA have done soemthing 
 alot more creative, they have combined the Police Chase side of Need For Speed Hot Pursuit and 
 the Racer/Tuner scene from Underground and merged it into a very successfull result!
  
  You Get Your Precious BMW GT3 stolen off you at the start and you have to work your way up a "Blacklist" 
 of very skilled drivers until you get to number 1 - Razor, the dude who stole your ride!
  
  Most Wanted offers a good choice of exotic and standard cars to choose, from Porsches to Fiat Puntos! 
 Which offers great customisability and fast results when your rides are fully tricked out!!
  Sadly, Most Wanted doesnt offer much customisation compared to NFS: U2 with the removal of SUVS 
 and trunk customisation and various others, but that doesnt compare to the additions in Most Wanted..
 
  You get 5 sets of police cars that chase you ranging from basic squad cars to corvettes!
  The police have very good A. I and offer a complete new challenge apart from the races such as outruns. 
 They Also set up road block and spike strips to try and stop you !
  N. O. S Now Recharges as you drive fast and Most Wanted now has the Speedbreaker ability - Like the 
 "Zone" manouver from Midnight Club Dub Edition, Which allows you to slow down time and allows greater 
 control over your ride, but slows your ride down drastically.
  Also, when the police are pursuin, you have the ability to drive through "chase breakers" which 
 basically are breakable items in the world which either blow up, crush, smash, or totally destroy 
 police cars - these range from petrol stations, water towers, scaffolding and so on, this offers 
 a great amount of fun as your car smashing through and destroys the entire pursuit fleet!!
  
  Another great aspect of Most Wanted is the online capability, you can take your rides online 
 and race against thousands online - simply login and pick a good server - then go burn some rubber!
 
  
  All In All Most Wanted Has Been A Great Game To Play, It Has Various Difficulty In Races, A Large 
 Map, A Good Selection Of Cars, Very Good A. I, And A General Amount Of Fun !!!!!
  
  This Game May Not Appeal To All People, But Who Ever Is New To The Genre, Believe Me.. Im An Honest 
 Guy, Youll Love It, New Or Old!
  
  This Game Scores A 9.7 On My Scale :D
  
  Thanks For Reading This Review, I Hope You Learned What You Wanted To About This Game, Any More 
 Info You Need Just Gimmie A Message!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mort2fire
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 6, 2006 11:17 am PT
Review:  This game blows me away, i cant even do my homework with out hinking about playing it.
  
  I attach my steering wheel up to the computer and set the steering , so i can play this game.
 
  
  And when i race, it puts all the fun behind the wheel and never again will the Law coMe and chase 
 me,
  
  WHYS THAT?
  
  Once im sitting behind the wheel, they can catch me, they seem to get harder each time you work 
 your way up the black list, and the more heat you have on your car, they have more tricks waiting 
 for you.
  
  WWith heavy road blocks with Rino cars behind them, preventing you from passing, which makes you 
 do a 140 degree spin and speed back off the other way.
  
  Never have i been so hooked on a racing game before, as made as this game.
  
  I enjot this 
 game the most and cant put the game down.
  
  So, as a review, Please buy this game, it wont let you down.
  
  The cars you can win and the 
 different mods you can do to your car is alot more real and they have worked on the core graphics 
 on real time sun light and shadow effect.
  
  Detail is imporrtant, and i feel as if they have reached this goal.
  
  10/10 FULL MARKS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TripleX07
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 5, 2006 11:50 pm PT
Review:  I have been playing this game for the past week, and can honestly say that I think the game rocks.. 
 It's very fun to play, and , definitely gets two thumbs up from me. If you're looking for a realistic 
 racing game.. This one is not for you. But if you're into non-stop racing with no damage and plenty 
 of police chases. Not to mention plenty of cool rides, and parts to customize it. Then this is 
 a must buy! The longer you play the game, the tougher the police become. So down the road it's 
 no walk in the park. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marcfalabella
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 5, 2006 4:16 pm PT
Review:  BEST GAME EVER! If you like Customizing carz then this is the game for you. Its also fairly long. 
 Iv had it for 2 weeks and am no where near bord of it. Iv play like 20 hours so far and am just 
 getting to 50 % complet. I highly recommend buying this if you liked all the other Need For Speed 
 games. its by far the best one ever. Best racing game iv ever played. If i had to dicribe it in 
 one word i couldnt because its just to damn good. This game is realy addicting. If you are thinking 
 youd better get it for the xbox 360 or something because you cant use the keyboard for raceing 
 games get a controller for the pc. I have the xbox 360 wired controller. It works for windows xp 
 better. The game picks up all the buttens so all you have to do is plug it in and start to play. 
 I hope you dicide to buy it as well 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MetalMartenhead
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 5, 2006 12:56 pm PT
Review:  Need for speed most wanted is playing on word.
  With good potential this game as become one of the most expected game for the last quarter of 2005. 
 With all the experience of the team of Need for speed, it will be a good game...
  
  Listening the comment of the gamer, EA have made one of the most complete street racing game. A 
 lot of beautiful customizable car, a big town full of streets, dense traffic, changing weather 
 condition and at least cops.
  This was the only missing thing from NFU 2.
  
  Well incorporated this feature made a big difference in the way you will play the game. If you 
 get caught 3 time you will lose your car and if it's your only car, too bad, you're game over. 
 More you trick the cop and more aggressive they became, so you better watch your popularity meeter.
 
  
  On the other side, the storyline is basic, nothing to put you in the game. And the developer dropped 
 a lot of body parts and decals to introduce us cop.
  
  Bug... in a such low budget game.... it can be....
  When you will race against a girl the skin 
 of the racer still a short hair man. If you want a put a racer in a car do it right or don't do 
 it. The racer is static even a big crash won't move him.
  The second one, if you're racing in a snapshot race just try to be first and your total speed won't 
 be consider. Another miss for EA.
  
  You better buy Need for speed underground 2.
  
  And finally, we can resume this by : if there's something new in the game it will be full of bugs...
 
  Next time EA, take your time to test your game before the release.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ivikingu
Rating: 3.4
Date: Jan 5, 2006 11:51 am PT
Review:  ok playing underground and underground 2 of the series, i was expecting a great game!!
  great graphics, better control, and much more tuning options and stuff.
  
  but when i payed this 
 game, i was really disappointed by it, the controls are very kidish, the graphics ary just blurry 
 [this is the effect of the speed on your brain-they say, but thats just blurry!] and the maps & 
 locations are just like the last one, only a little bit different.
  
  this game is full of movie+added 3D scenes, the game has a lot of this fancy movies, but if you want 
 to watch a movie, you can rent a great cg movie and watch it, you dont have to buy this game.
  
  the other part that i dont like, is that this game has very little control on the tuning aspect 
 of the cars [and for me that was the most fun part in the last releases of the series] you just 
 start with a super tuned car, and just change the color and stuff, only later you buy a crap car 
 to tune as you like.
  
  anyway maybe i was to hard with this title, but the only thing i got ou of this game was DISAPPOINTMENT! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mocafrost
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 5, 2006 2:57 am PT
Review:  I had high expectations for this game and it is meeting them. The graphics are incredible but only 
 a small part of the game's appeal. The tracks are made for high speed with several of them including 
 long wide stretches of road where you can see what your car can do. Some new racing events create 
 a fresh and fun experience. 
  Speed trap races are especially fun. The object is to pass certain points at the maximum speed 
 vice just be in first place at the end. You don't have to be in first place to win but you will 
 get penalized for finishing too far behind. Toll booth races are a nice twist on races against 
 the clock. You have to accomplish each section of the race in a given amount of time, and your 
 time to spare at each check point is given to you as a bonus for the next section. Lap knock out 
 is the same. I would have liked to have seen something innovative like the every 30 second elimination 
 in Burnout's eliminator races. It's a small complaint with all of the quality modes that are in 
 this game. Circuit and sprint races are included as always. Drag races are included but they are 
 few and far between. I love drag races so I would have rather seen a lot more. So I have two gripes 
 now. 
  Then there is the police involvement. Unlike Hot Pursuit 2 where the police were an irritant that 
 would interfere with the races, police in Most Wanted have a constant presence. Free roam has the 
 life it needed now. You can encounter law enforcement and be pursued at any time in or out of race 
 events. Depending on your cars wanted level, the police get more and more aggressive and difficult 
 to evade. The radio chatter is quality and the pursuits themselves can get crazy. At a low wanted 
 level you might have a hard time not losing the police. At higher levels they are relentless and 
 you will have a definite sense of accomplishment when you successfully evade the po-po. These chases 
 are tense, exciting and not to be missed. You don't have to enter career mode to experience them 
 either. The challenge series (driving missions) offers up plenty of law breaking action.
  The game's overall difficulty is hard to judge. The races start off very easy for the first 3/4s 
 of the career mode. At a point it was much more difficult to accomplish the police evading feats 
 than the races necessary to challenge the next "Most Wanted" racer. The career is a combination 
 or winning races and evading police to prove your racing skill and unlawfulness. As you approach 
 the last few levels, the races get much more difficult and the chases remain difficult. Some of 
 the difficulty is a factor of how you get your cars.
  You can buy stock cars or try and get the cars of defeated opponents. Each opponent once defeated 
 has some goodies to offer you. You can only choose two of the six and half of them are only labled 
 with question marks. Only the upgrades are named by performance, visual, or parts catagories. This 
 adds some more excitement and unpredictability to the game. I don't want to go too much into the 
 pros and cons of buying versus pink slipping here because it would be a spoiler. It is a fun and 
 interesting system that is one more reason why this is a great game. To sum it all up, this game 
 has great gameplay, unbelievable graphics, fresh modes, and plenty of replay value. It is worth 
 your money. And I didn't even mention the customization. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: prymeski
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 5, 2006 12:23 am PT
Review:  NFSMW is a breakthrough in the racing genre, thrilling police pursuits when heat level is high, superb 
 graphics you can feel the adrenaline rushing, planning out your getaway from the police chases. the 
 storyline is great.. entering rockport city with the BMW, engaging racing events to earn respect 
 from fellow racers.. bad luck strikes when the event was to race for pink slips (winner takes the 
 loser's car) the BMW had engine trouble, losing the BMW and to make things worse, police caught up 
 the scene and got busted... this is where you start the game, getting out of jail with the help of 
 a very sexy chick called Mia, she helps you find a car to race, provides safehouses, and guides you 
 in engaging race events and giving info about the police who are getting furious on you. working 
 your way from the 15th blacklist racer down to the no#1 blacklist racer who is using your BMW. the 
 ultimate goal is to defeat the no#1 blacklist racer, getting back your BMW, evading police pursuits, and 
 earning the "most wanted" racer in rockport... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thouse_40
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 4, 2006 4:41 pm PT
Review:  Not saying that the game is bad, its a ton of fun but I really enjoyed customizing all of the cars 
 in underground 2 with the audio and ground affects as well as others parts. But this game laked 
 a lot of it. There were not very many combinations of different body parts. But the police chases 
 are out of this world fun especially when you heat gets real high and you have to be pursued by 
 Cross. I also think that there should be more cut scenes. They look great, so why not put some 
 more in after race victorys. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Drugstein
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 4, 2006 11:09 am PT
Review:  Since the first Need for Speed, many people around the world played all the versions of the game. 
 This is the best game of racing in my opinion, every year the giant EA brings new tecnologies and 
 very great gameplay to us.
  
  If you played the undergound series, you'll experience a different gameplay. the graphics get closely 
 to perfection, but the worst thing in Most Wanted, are the shadows. if they are on the most high 
 level the car have 2 shadows. when you're on a small tunnel, it gets more light cause the light 
 of the car take place togheter with the tunnel's lights.
  
  The police is very angry in this game, on the hat #5 it's too difficult to escape, cause u need 
 to complete the milestones. AI of polices are very good.
  
  The plot of the game is very interesting, u have the best car, and it goes to your enemy, that 
 come the first on BLACKLIST...
  
  The SOUNDTRACK is good, sound of the cars is real.
  
  The best game on NEED FOR SPEED franchise, because it takes all the emotion and hard breathing 
 of pursuits, and have tunning options, all in one game.
  
  Thanks from BRAZIL. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tiefster
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 4, 2006 8:41 am PT
Review:  If you like graphics then definitely get this game for PC if you have a good graphics card. This 
 game looks better on a good PC than it does on 360 hands down. The controls are managable on the 
 keyboard if you don't have a steering wheel for your PC and you can change the controls around 
 if you like to. The soundtrack was a little lacking when it came to artisits that I knew about 
 but it was a little more balanced. For example, during races EA has techno/house and rock music 
 playing instead of having Lil John & the Eastside Boys playing while you're losing. The Blacklist 
 was cool and one of the best parts of the game and it gave you the option of getting your rival's 
 pink slip after you smoked them. The selection of cars wasn't exactly to my liking for a street 
 racing game. I don't think a Ford GT belongs on the street racing scene but having powerful cars 
 like that added to the intensity and hilarity of police chases. I cannot describe how much fun 
 the chases are so you're gonna need to buy it to find out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Staraxia
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 4, 2006 6:39 am PT
Review:  Absolutely Superb!!! This is for me the absolute greatest Need for Speed yet. Although it could 
 have been a little longer. It just got finished it, and it really didn't take that long to finish. 
 
  The graphics are brilliant. Realistic hardly describes it. You almost feel as if you truly are 
 behind the wheel! Especially if you're using a force feedback steering wheel!
  The characters are realistic enough to really get you going. Some I really felt like clobbering!!
 
  Easy to learn, and great to play. Soundtrack could also have been better, but i like it! It suits 
 the game.
  
  When's the next one?!?!
  
  It's simply the best!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnnych_cr
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 4, 2006 6:30 am PT
Review:  A new NFS is out, I got to tell you, is one the coolest i've ever play. It feels like the first 
 NFS games, with a sence of speed like no other game. Of course you got take points from the fact 
 that you can go at 200 miles per hours, hit a wall and nothing happens to you.
  
  In a personal opinion, they should put car damage to the game system, but beside this little problem 
 is a great game. The exelent sound track is all you need for the long rides of the city's map and 
 the grafics are much cooler than the previous game.
  
  I only have one more complains about NFS, there are only a few cut scenes in the game and the actors 
 sucks ( feels like Gigli ) , I don't understand this, the srcip is sure smaller than a truck commercial 
 and thet can't do it right.... come on.... but well you can't ask for everything.
  
  In simple words, it will keep you playing for hours and hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kakitan
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 3, 2006 11:07 pm PT
Review:  If you havn't play any of NFS series, You are not too late. Just play the Most wanted and you'll 
 experienced the best of the best of NFS.
  
  The graphic is super excellent (depend on your monitor and GC) , It proved why a good graphic card 
 is needed. Because it was all day light map, you can see plenty of details. good!
  
  The map was so much better than underground there are so much hidden road to discover (you need 
 that to run away from the Cops) . The best still the destroyable constructions (especially the gas 
 station) that will ramp on the police when they are right behind your tail. I forgot, check out 
 the timber truck. hit his wheels and let it block you way from the Cops. 
  
  Money is hard to get, So make sure you win all the race events to collect money to build a ultimate 
 dream car. I wish there are more ways to earn some cash.. like what we do in NFS-U2. 
  
  Recommendation: pursuiting Cops is the best play in this game.. remember to solve all milestone 
 events! MUST DO!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ricwhite
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jan 19, 2006 8:26 pm PT
Review:  UPDATE: Replayed the game and I have to downgrade my rating. It's worse than I thought on first 
 play-through. Many of the same glitches are in this game as with the original years ago. Some are 
 fairly funny, such as when you finally get away from a level 3 or 4 heat police pursuit only to 
 have two or three patrol cars suddenly materialize in front on you on the road. 
  
  There were several pursuits when it I would hit a pursuit breaker thinking I had finally avoided 
 the pursuit only to see police vehicles just "pop" up and materialize on the road in front of me 
 out of nowhere and I have to race off again. Hit another pursuit breaker and they are gone until, 
 suddenly, another patrol car pops up from out of the road in front of me. I'm off again, racing 
 to avoid the pursuit and, again, when I finally avoid them, still MORE police vehicles just "appear" 
 on the road in front of me. Now, it's one thing if they are "coming" from a location, but for the 
 road to be completely empty and then police cars just materialize on the road to chase me, is rather 
 ridiculous  and maybe done to increase the difficulty of the game but it rather ruins the point 
 of getting rid of the pursuit.
  
  The same old "stuck on the wall" glitch is there as well where  even turning the steering wheel 
 and pushing the accelerator, the car appears to be completely stuck against the wall. There also 
 seems to be an "invisible" area around objects that can be "hit" even though it appears as if they 
 were completely missed. For example, I hit a log truck to dump the logs to cause blockage for the 
 police pursuit, but even though it looked as if I was far to the side of the log, I couldn't move 
 forward or backward. Soon my "busted" meter filled.
  
  Another problem I've encountered is inconsistency at road blocks. Maybe with increasing "heat" 
 levels the police cars get a lot heavier, because it appears far harder to get through a block. 
 On some blocks I can hit two front ends facing inward and blast my way through the block fairly 
 easily. On other blocks, however, when I hit what appears to be the exact same situation of two 
 front ends (and I'm not talking about SUVs here) , I am stopped completely dead  even going at 
 160 mph. One of my most common phases playing this game was "yeah, right" not because it's unrealistic 
 (because it's supposed to be unrealistic) but because of inconsistency.
  
  Playing with keyboard and mouse is also a problem. The accelerator is either fully floored or completely 
 off. This makes accelerating difficult  especially while turning. The wheels will spin and spin 
 as the car fish-tails back and forth and the technique of tapping the accelerator or "nitro" button 
 must be used to try to get the car straightened out and going.
  
  I found the animations to be distracting. In other reviews, I read how many wanted "more" animations. 
 I want just the opposite  none at all. Either that or the option of ending them. When I am in 
 a serious race and trying to look ahead for obstacles and a good path, the LAST thing I want is 
 to see a slow-motion third-person side view animation of my car flying through the air for about 
 five seconds. I'd rather just continue the race. Same when I am busted. Do I really need to see 
 the SAME animations over and over again. The novelty wears off fairly fast. At least have an escape 
 option on them.
  
  I do like the career challenges and the graphics and sound. All are top notch and I give high marks 
 for them. I enjoyed most of the career mode until I got to the higher levels where I had to redo 
 a lot of races and redo a lot of milestones to win. To be honest, it got boring and EXTREMELY repetitive 
 and very time consuming and I found myself longing to play Quake 4 or Call of Duty 2 instead  
 which I personally find to be MUCH more enjoyable and a genre I like much better. 
  
  Overall, instead of my original 7.3 score I have downgraded it to 6.0. I think I have milked this 
 game for all it's worth and it will be a dust gatherer from this point on. NOW . . . back to my 
 FPS. . . Yeah! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ahshimi
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 3, 2006 5:31 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best NFS games issued. Althought is does not have that much of modifications 
 to install on cars but it is still good. the police persuits gives the game that unique sense of 
 excitment combined with the "speed braker" and the wonderful cars that could be bought. however, 
 the game missed some cars that could be of great intreset such as the Honda Civic and S2000, Ferrari, 
 etc... In addtion to that, i found the game to be easy once u know the basics the game repeats 
 its self over and over again in the persuits the police doesn't do anything new. But over all it 
 is a nice game that is worth playing. And hope that u enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PR3D4TOR2
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 3, 2006 5:13 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome you need to get this now if you didn't do this already this game takes you 
 far more deeper in street raceing that any game 
  the game has a lot of action and very cool online gaming 
  YOU MUST OWN THIS !!! if you like 
 action driving and outstanding graphic buy this now and off curse outstanding sound when you will 
 taste it you will not leave it i played now this game over 166 hour and i cant be wrong !!! this 
 is the right thing to buy :) i get this game when it come out i had felling that this game will 
 make me happy and keep me afront of my PC and i had right 
  you really really gotta play this you don't wanna miss 
  
  Sweet game 
  
  you have carrer 
 then you can go to chellenge , custum race, online ... and much more 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: n17r0
Rating: 4.2
Date: Jan 3, 2006 12:20 pm PT
Review:  As if EA has not done enough damage to the Need For Speed series, they continue to push out more 
 stellar graphics, while spending less time on the actual game. Most Wanted, the latest installment, 
 is almost an embarassment as far as coding goes.
  First off, this game would be so much better if there was actual effort put into the AI. The computer 
 racers are the worst I have ever seen in rubber-band AI. Only in this game will you see a Chevy 
 Cobalt, a starter car, fly past your Lamborghini at 250mph. It is somewhat forgiving at the beginning, 
 but the further you climb up the blacklist (the ranking system in the single player campaign) , 
 the more abysmally hard the impartially built AI gets. There is fun challenging, and then there 
 is EA-broken challenging.
  The graphics in Most Wanted are amazing, if you have the power to run it. It runs rather well early 
 in the game when your cars aren't touching 160mph on the highways, but as you get further in when 
 you're going through downtown Rockport at speeds above 140, the game stutters like mad. The engine 
 is very bloated, so even some people's powerful rigs will need to majorly tone down the graphics.
 
  The FMVs that move along the rather amateur story in Most Wanted are hilarious, in the sense they 
 are absolutely pathetic. The acting is horrid, especially from your arch-rival Razor. (NOTE: I 
 was originally planning to wait until I beat the game to put this review up just to see if the 
 ending to this one was as bad as Underground 2, but after working on blacklist #4, I just got tired 
 of playing the game.) The voicemail messages you get are just as bad, if not worse at times, and 
 half the time leave you more confused than before.
  Overall the course designs are alright. The best ones are in the new Tollbooth mode, which is a 
 throwback to checkpoint racing (where you have to get to points in a certain amount of time, making 
 it a race against the clock instead of opponents) . Once again, they haphazardly threw in drag racing, 
 which has always been a poorly built mode. The traffic scripts are even worse this time around, 
 as you'll find obstacles on occasion that try to make you use the new Speedbreaker mode (which 
 is much like a racing version of Bullet Time, only it tends to cause you more harm than good) .
 
  The sound is actually really good. Each car has it's own unique sound, that changes depending 
 on the parts installed. Collision sounds are decent as well, and the 3D sound with passing cars 
 and whooshing noises from flying past objects and traffic is once again well done. The soundtrack 
 offers a lot more in musical taste to everyone (I especially loved the selection of drum & bass, 
 but overall they covered many bases in genres) .
  As an EA game, Most Wanted definitely comes with a few glitches. On rare occasion, it is possible 
 to go straight through cops and traffic. Also, sometimes the cursor will disappear and not come 
 back until you restart the game. The jgamepadsupport on the other hand is very nice, though binding 
 buttons for menu usage would have been nice. If you happen to have a gamepad with force feedback, 
 you will get a lovely treat as well.
  The networking is really broken as far as this game goes. When testing LAN capabilities, issues 
 were run into frequently (Most Wanted proved that it is apparently possible for the host computer 
 to lose connectivity to itself!) .
  Overall, this game really is not cut out as everyone seems to think. It doesn't help that the top 
 two names in arcade racing currently are this and Burnout, but the Burnout series is miles better 
 than what the Need For Speed franchise has begun. If you want true NFS games, get Porche Unleashed 
 or Hot Pursuit 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tricky2050
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 3, 2006 8:56 am PT
Review:  I have long been a follower of the NFS series and in my opinion it just gets better. The graphics, 
 sound, music and sense of speed in the latest game are brilliant. I have been hooked since i bought 
 it. The game gradually increases nicely in difficulty and at maximum heat level the police are 
 insane with spike strips, road blocks, helicopters it becomes adrenaline pumping fun. The only 
 gripe I have with this game is that it didn't include an option for the player to be the police, 
 a feature which i loved in the Hot Pursuit games but all in all this is a fantastic game recommended 
 to anyone who even slightly liked on of the previous NFS titles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: faam
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 3, 2006 5:06 am PT
Review:  the game is really good, because is not only drive and win races, it has a story it's really cool 
 to try to lose the police, the graphics are really good, and the sound is good too...
  
  When you have a lot tiem playing it's a little boring because you get tired of doing the same all 
 day, but i really like the game specially because all the race games i played are really boring...
 
  
  the cars are really great, ad the system for buying parts is almost he same of nfs underground... 
 
  
  is easier than underground because you handle the car better... 
  
  i think is the best of the serie...
  
  i don't know what's the time spent playing (i haven't 
 finished) .. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Answer_1
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 2, 2006 7:12 am PT
Review:  OKay well i ll start by saying i have played all the need for speed games and beaten all of them. 
 Need for speed most wanted is a great game you do get the sense of speed , adrenaline rush and 
 fun that car games should offer. The graphics is well tuned especially if you can afford and really 
 good graphics card , the music is always great and its nice to know that you driving in day for 
 a change. Apart from that the police chases are awsome great wicked out of this world whichever 
 word you choose its fun, it does add back that missing element to the game. Your opponents are about 
 as eager to win as you are so its not a tuff game to pick and play, its 2006 and if you havent 
 gotten it i suggest you do wether you have a pc or console its a must have. Personally since forza 
 i havent had the chance to play something fun to me if anything beats this game now its this game 
 lol. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: foka1808
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 1, 2006 4:54 am PT
Review:  Finally this is the first NFS with a story on it. It's a good game, new kinds of races, now racing 
 on day, now you know your rivals (some of them) , the new police chases...
  
  The Graphics are not good as a X360, but if you have a good video card you can play almost as the 
 ps2. The cars now are more beautiful and different from NFSU 1 and 2, only the golf GTI, this games 
 always have this car. The gameplay has been growing better from nfs to nfs, now you can start a 
 pursuit with the police just by driving calmly on the streets, there are some things called Pursuit 
 Breakers, some things that your car can drop on the police cars and destroy them. The heat level 
 indicates how wanted you are, higher heat level stands for harder pursuits, the police will use 
 helicopters and SUVs on higher levels, on the highest level, the police will try to use roadblocks 
 and spikestrips too, if you pass into a spikestrip you will end BUSTED, the Sergeant Cross will 
 chase you, he is the most skilled driver on the police. The new kinds of races are: Tollbooth, 
 that it's a "Time attack", but with other name.
  Speedtrap, this one is cool, on this race you have to pass the trap at the highest speed possible. 
 The rivals are 15, the Blacklists, to beat each one there are some requeriments: Milestones (some 
 events on chases like "Dodging 3 roadblocks) Bounty ( You earn it on chases and doing milestones) 
 and Race Events ( Races) . IF you win the blacklist races, you can choose 2 markers from him, you 
 can get your rival's car, money reward, unique upgrades, free of jail markers...
  The soundtrack of the game it's good, some good musics, some bad musics.
  
  Well. its a great 
 game! Buy It it's worth, but as the NFS series, it's too short and too easy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rometotalwar999
Rating: 3.9
Date: Jan 1, 2006 3:47 am PT
Review:  This game is totally messed. Let's check out the different aspects for the game.
  
  Gameplay
  
  All you gotta do for this game is to keep holding on your 'Move forward' button 
 and press the directional buttons when needed. What's the fun in that? The cars? Don't make me 
 puke. The cars just look different, sound different. In fact, they're all the same. Just tune up 
 yur cars correctly and they perform the same as the others. Nothing unique about it. And you cannot 
 tune your car in the 'Quick Race'
  
  Graphics
  
  It's an undeniable fact, the graphics are good. However, that's ONLY IF you've a system wired up 
 for high-end gaming, or else you will get only an average graphics or lag.
  
  Sound
  
  You've got to be joking, aside from the soundtrack (which is not very good) all you get is the 
 'Vroom vroom' noises that are commonly found in any typical racing game.
  
  Value
  
  Aside from the police chases and the unexpected intelligence from the AI in the later parts of 
 the game, there's is nothing else. The storyline is nothing but a false front, the real meaning 
 behind the storyline is racing. Beat your oppoents to progress. You lose......... you know what's 
 going to happen. And the car's physics are totally unrealistic. If you want a Need for Speed game 
 to have realistic physics. Try out Need for Speed Porsche Unleashed.
  
  Overall
  
  Having played Need for Speed since Need for Speed III Hot Pursuit. I must say, The series only 
 introduced better graphics & minor additions like the story mode. If you are a fan of racing games 
 and want something unique, like cars being able to do stunts to catch up with the AI or have weapons, 
 try out the Burnout series or Hot Wheels series. Those are the true unique racing games.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: m3lly
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 30, 2005 11:05 pm PT
Review:  This is the very real world of street racing where people with $6.50 an hour wages can afford a 
 Lamborghini..... just like in real life!!!
  
  This game is more realistic than GT4 and Forza combined together, physics and handling of the cars 
 are very realistic and true to the real world of racing, example: the colour of the car you pick 
 can make it go faster, bodykit will give you an extra 40HP and Colour tinting your windows will 
 increase the aerodynamics of your car.
  
  Unlike GT4 and Forza this game has a very complex plot about street racing, making it big and making 
 the Most Wanted. Imerse yourselfs with the colorful characters in game and win their cars just 
 like in real life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingMeier
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 30, 2005 9:32 pm PT
Review:  This game is worth every cent. The graphics, sound and game play are excellent. The cut scenes 
 are fun to watch. Just wish they were more (that would make EA spent more money I guess) . This 
 game is totally better than NFS Underground 2 which I liked but not as much as this one. The menu 
 is different and attractive.
  
  Out running the police is fantastic. You can total their vehicles by hitting them or objects that 
 would make them crash. If they are too many of them, you may need to get to a hide out. Anything 
 to get away. This is the beauty of this game.
  
  The game is the same as others, beat the other drivers. When you begin the game you would have 
 a nice BMW but don't get used to it because you would not have it long. You have to win races that 
 would make you move up the blacklist (15 in all) in order to take out the guy that sabotage your 
 ride, whom you first competed against. He is the one that took your ride but no need to worry, 
 you will be taking other people vehicles too when you win races.
  
  There is nothing more to be said about this game but play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eblaton
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 30, 2005 4:25 pm PT
Review:  Need For Speed Most Wanted is no doubt one of the best race games to come out for 2005. Graphics, 
 sound and game play have been improved greatly and what is truly fantastic in this game is that 
 your character is no longer a nocturnal racer. Finally you can race in the day and at night. The 
 story is basically about the same Underground racer that drives to a new city, called Rockport, 
 and tries his luck against the 15 members of the Blacklist.
  
  The graphics and sound effects are truly amazing, surpassing those of the previous Underground 
 titles. The cars and the environment look great and Id have to say that the visuals compare with 
 those of Gran Turismo 4.
  
  The career and quick race modes have returned, as well as the LAN and online modes of play. Whats 
 new is the Challenge Series that allows you to compete in 69 different races, keeping you busy 
 even after the career mode has been completed. There are now two new race modes added to the series. 
 The first is Speedtrap which is a lot like sprint but you have a number of checkpoints that you 
 have got to reach with the fastest speed. The second is Tollbooth which is also like sprint but 
 you need to reach checkpoints before your time ends (These race modes are very similar but are 
 still enjoyable) . 
  
  Whats great about this title is the cop pursuit, which hasnt been in NFS in a couple of years. 
 The more you progress in the game, the more difficult the chase becomes, bringing in faster cars, 
 helicopters and roadblocks. In order to avoid the pursuit, you can run into Pursuit Breakers 
 like gas stations, donut shops and water towers that will collapse over the cops; giving you the 
 chance to escape or hide. The coolest thing about the pursuit is that the music changes from the 
 EA soundtrack to this dramatic music that makes you feel as though you are playing a scene out 
 of a movie, and also changes to how tense the chase is (very, very cool) .
  
  The newest feature of NFS is the Speed Breaker; this is like bullet time for cars. It gives you 
 the chance to slow down time and dodge obstacles in your way. Its a bit of a cheat but its very 
 entertaining and useful during the cop pursuits. 
  
  Even though NFSMW is a great game, it does however have a couple flaws. The huge variety of customisations 
 that were offered in NFSU 2 has been removed. They removed minor things like neon lights, mirrors, 
 hydraulics (completely useless but fun none the less) and speakers in the trunk; and the huge noticeable 
 things like body kits (only limiting the player to use 4 or 5 wide body kits) , four layer vinyls, 
 door types and spinners (they look so cool) have been removed as well. The newest additional is 
 a vinyl, if you can call it that, that has a round circle with a number (that you can change) in 
 the centre of it, what a great addition after removing so much. I was highly disappointed with 
 the limited customisations in this game; hopefully this will change for future NFS titles.
  
  Another down side is the removal of the drift races, which have been in the last two Underground 
 games. Im not sure how other gamers were affected by this, but it really pissed me off. I always 
 thought of drift as a breather from the tense and tedious racing from the circuit races. The drag 
 racing has become very, very, irritating. With the Underground games, the drag races were completely 
 random; cars would pop out in different areas and it kind of made it realistic, not knowing where 
 a car will come from. 
  
  In NFSMW cars will come out in certain spots, everytime, having to drive the track in a specific 
 way and you have to memorize where each and every car would come out. Whats even more annoying 
 is that there are a few of them and there is only one drag race that is  kind of straight, all 
 the others curve. NFSU and NFSU 2 at least tried to balance the drag between straight and curving 
 tracks.
  
  Another disappointment to NFSMW has to be the car list, which are about 34 cars in total (thats 
 including two unlockable cars) . A couple manufacturers were left out in this title; namely Honda, 
 Hyundai and Nissan (yes, yes I know, Im a Skyline fan so sue me) . Its great to play with Lamborghini, 
 Porsche and the other new cars added to NFSMW, however the car list is still very limited. Im 
 not trying to say that EA must add 700 cars to the list like GT 4, but having a choice of about 
 50 or more cars would have been better. 
  
  In my opinion, the quality of music is decreasing with every NFS game that is released. NFSUs 
 soundtrack was the best and NFSU 2s was decent, NFSMW is by far the worst. You can actually count 
 on one hand the songs that you actually like (The song, I am Rock, REALLY irritates the crap 
 out of me) . I really, really hope EA would put an MP3 player in NFSs options. 
  
  Overall NFSMW is still a great game; the cop pursuit, fun game play and stunning visuals push it 
 over the top and still make it one of the best racers. Hopefully EA will add the missing Underground 
 features, increase the car list and finally add an MP3 player, to future NFS titles. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BioHzrdSco
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 30, 2005 1:36 pm PT
Review:  This game took my breath away to begin but after a good few hours of playing it became well bland 
 the same stuff over and over but that what youd really expect from a Racing Game, The Graphics 
 were amazing, Music Was Ok to me the main thing in a racing game is the feel of the cars and they 
 were great on the game everyone was different.
  
  Overall its a good game but it just laks in some areas overall its a good game but it realy has 
 no replay factor witch i realy look for in a game and also not to spoil the game but the ending 
 was realy realy poor ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yunchao
Rating: 9.9
Date: Dec 29, 2005 10:20 am PT
Review:  This game incorporates everything that you would look for in a racing game. Fast cars, tons of 
 mods, endless possibilities of upgrading, and (lets not forget) hot chicks who are on your side 
 for once make this game a surreal play.
  
  Like other games of it's kind, you start out by choosing a starter car which, while bad, can still 
 beat the first couple of Blacklists drivers. Then it's on to bigger and better! With such cars 
 as the Lotus Elise up for sale, you could definitely be king of the roads.
  
  This game does require a pretty good graphics card to get all that you can out of it's graphics 
 but with a Gforce 4 like mine, the in-game world looks very real. 
  
  The best thing about this game is how the cut scene characters are more or less lifelike as if 
 you were watching a slightly blurry version of The Fast and the Furious. This is a huge, and great, 
 leap from the comic cut scenes of NFS Underground 2.
  
  Overall, this is definitely a game to buy, not rent and if you're new at racing games, it have 
 a relatively simple learning curve that won't stress you out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Qulzam
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 29, 2005 4:35 am PT
Review:  This is the best racing game, Police is the real fun of this game, recommended for all gamers who 
 want some real FUN
  outstanding game in the series of NFS. the game is made for the racing enthusiast. it requires 
 a real powerful machine and i recommend this game to every gamer and waiting for the next series. 
 Ea must add police in their next sequel, EA done the great job making such game. This game features 
 the BlackList rivals which are really modded boys. they have their own cars and your goal is to 
 reach the Blacklist 1. Challenge series is also added, which increases your practice as well as 
 experience in PC racing game. Recommended game for All GAMERS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darren_07
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 28, 2005 11:26 pm PT
Review:  Need for Speed: Most Wanted is all about street racing with cops. You can customize your ride e. g 
 change the looks, upgrade its parts and stuff. The best thing in this game is the cop chases. The 
 cop AI is very good, it uses several good tactics to try and get you busted, although it can get 
 annoying sometimes because when you need them to be chasing you, they fall back, but when you need 
 to evade them, they spawn endlessly. The only thing I don't like about in this game is the rubber-band 
 AI.. when you have a seemingly large lead about 21 seconds, a minute later, the cars are right 
 behind you. Just drives me nuts. All in all a good game, you have to buy it if you enjoy racing 
 games whether simulation or arcade. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HTWingnut
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 28, 2005 7:34 pm PT
Review:  Wow! This game is frigging unbelievable. I have never been much of an advocate for action driving 
 games. The last driving game I enjoyed was Need for Speed Porsche Unleashed.
  
  Need for Speed Most Wanted captures all the action of the fast paced driving game with the added 
 excitement of cop pursuits. The career mode forces the gamer to start with slower cars and race 
 their way to win money to buy more cars or update their existing ones with performance or visual 
 upgrades.
  
  Many of the races are against the clock or against other racers in a decent variety of race types, 
 all taking place on tracks manifested from streets in a fictitious city. This means traffic interference 
 while driving, including semi-trucks hauling cargo that will be dumped if smashed into. This type 
 of event can be used in your favor or against you. Smashing into a log hauler will release logs 
 all over the road to either slow down the opponent, or smash cop cars.
  
  Of the many track types, those against opponents include circuit racing (multiple laps) , sprints 
 (first one to finish wins) , drag racing (fast paced action) , speedtrap (one with fastest clocked 
 speeds at set speed traps wins) , and lap knockout (last player past the finish each lap gets eliminated 
 until final lap) . There is one track type that is strictly against the clock, and that is tollbooth. 
 In this race, the gamer must race from tollbooth to tollbooth within the specified time limit.
 
  
  Some races include cops within proximity that will chase you during the race, which adds to the 
 tension. And once the race is complete, you must successfully evade the cops before you can return 
 back to your "safe house" without interference.
  
  Engaging in races can be done by roaming the city and hitting the race "hot spots" or just by jumping 
 back to your safe house and engaging the races there. In addition to races, you have to meet certain 
 other criteria, which might entail ending a pursuit in less than two minutes, or longer than eight 
 minutes, for example. Or tagging a set number of police vehicles, increasing your bounty by a certain 
 amount, or causing a set dollar amount of damage. These goals have to be met before proceeding 
 with a challenge against the next "Black Rival" contender, working your way to the top to earn 
 back the car that the number one dude stole from you in the first place. 
  
  In most races, shortcuts abound and are exploited sparingly by the computer AI. But it is important 
 to learn these shortcuts because they will not only help you win a race, but also evade cops if 
 need be.
  
  Driving physics fit this game superbly. And it also incorporates a "stop-time" type gimmick, which 
 zooms the view, and slows time, to allow for fancy split-second maneuvering like zipping under 
 a semi truck, evading a police roadblock or spike strips.
  
  There are a few negatives, however. For one, initial level cops are dumb as rocks and will lose 
 you in a heartbeat by crashing into another car, a median, or just being dumb. This may sound ok, 
 but usually you need to have them engage you for a certain period to meet your goals. As your pursuit 
 ensues, your heat level increases, and cops get faster, smarter, and engage roadblocks, spike strips, 
 SUV's that ram you, and a helicopter that will track your progress so you can't hide so easily.
 
  
  Another negative is that when driving at excessive speeds (above 160MPH or so) , or engaging nitrous 
 your screen blurs to give the aura of speed. Not terrible, but it can make it that much more difficult 
 to see whats in front of you. Secondly, the game tries to make a light effect as you exit out of 
 a tunnel that is near blinding, making it near impossible to see whats in front of you for a second 
 or so, which can be devastating if you're flying along at super fast speeds on a winding road.
 
  
  Overall, Need for Speed: Most Wanted is one of the BEST driving games in a long time that I have 
 played. I am sure anyone with an interest in driving games would love this one. Recommend a decent 
 wheel and pedals setup for best results. Hope you enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dudeman0000
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 28, 2005 10:27 am PT
Review:  With an awesome combination of nice graphics and cool cars, this game rocks! The cutscenes aren't 
 so bad either, and the storyline is enhanced with the phonecalls and texts that you can receive 
 from anybody in the game. Very nice overall gameplay, the cop chases.... wow.... they leave me 
 breathless. 
  There are a few unbelievability problems with the game, like the agility of the helicopter. It 
 seems to follow you through downtown Rockport without any worry for skyscrapers or bridges, just 
 dodging them unrealistically quickly. Also, cops can get frustrating, because they seem to appear 
 from nowhere.... just when you think you lost your tail, another cop car spawns right behind you 
 and your at it again.
  But all in all I encourage anybody who like racing games to buy this one, because it is awesome, 
 with little defects. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: surfataison
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 27, 2005 7:54 pm PT
Review:  i bought this game and i play it all the time (well not rly cuz i got it 3 days ago)
  the blacklist is crazy, rap sheet packs soo much heat, in fact this game can't be beat! the graficks 
 are amazing, sweet tracks , cool cars, tons of nitrous and everything for customization! its the 
 street racing game for any1 even if u dont like street racing! if u don't get it ull be sorry cuz 
 its not for maury!
  the slow mo time thing is crazed! goin under semi trailers is sweet
  so buy it!!!! EA has finally created a arcade racing game that has the mass appeal its mant an' 
 has enough substance to keep the hardcore happy too - and pc owners it's an essential purchase. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sonic_X
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 27, 2005 5:52 pm PT
Review:  THIS GAME IS SWEET.
  OKAY, HERE'S THE DEAL, I WAS GONNA GET THIS GAME FOR MY PC BUT I COULDN'T 'CAUSE MY COMPUTER DOESN'T 
 HAVE FRIGGIN' WINDOWS XP.
  SO I'M GONNA GET IT FOR DS.
  BUT I HAVE PLAYED IT ON PC AND IT'S ALL IT'S CRACKED UP TO BE.
  THIS GAME BRINGS BACK A WELCOME 
 FEAUTURE, COPS. 
  YOU START OUT AS A RACER MOVING TO A NEW CITY. YOU GO AWHILE DOING GREAT AND THEN THIS JERK NAMED 
 RAZOR SABATOGES YOU WHEN YOU RACE FOR PINKS AND THE COPS GET AHOLD OF YOU. YOU GO TO JAIL, MEET 
 A HOT CHICK NAMED MIA AND GET BACK ON THE RACING SCENE TO TAKE DOWN RAZOR WHO IS NOW ON TOP OF 
 THE BLACKLIST WITH YOUR CAR. YOU HAVE ONE MISSION KICK HIS U KNOW WHAT!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cleverusername
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 27, 2005 3:12 pm PT
Review:  You clutch the steering wheel, breathing heavy. Your palms are sweaty, and as you look out your 
 side windows you see the other racers sneering at you. Their mocking faces clearly tell you you 
 don't belong here out on the streets. As you rev your engine, the signal is given, and you're off! 
 Tires screeching, you pull away from the other racers and have but one thought: 
  
  Hell yeah.
  
  Need for Speed: Most Wanted is the newest edition in the long running NFS series. 
 However, instead of following the current trend of undergroung street racing, EA has decided to 
 add some of older aspects of NFS, which is police chases. These chases are arguably the more enjoyable 
 parts of the game, and definetely the most suspensful. Suspense in a racing game? You better believe 
 it.
  
  So where to start off? Well... how about the story? I know, I know, racing games are usually completely 
 devoid of story, but not this one. You see, you're a street racer in the fictional Rockport city 
 and you're getting a lot of street rep. However, you've also caught the eye of another racer named 
 Razor, who happens to be an ass. Something else he is is Blacklist Racer #15. Anyways, you challenge 
 Razor to a race, hoping to earn his spot on the Blacklist. But Razor tampers with your car and 
 you lose, which means he gets your car. Using your car, he climbs the blacklist and is soon #1. 
 On top of all your misfortune, you get busted by the police right after you lose your car. Your 
 only hope is to get your revenge by climbing the BL and getting your car back, as well as getting 
 #1 on the BL. Gripping, no? It doesn't sound like it, but you actually get very caught up in the 
 story. And since Razor acts like such a dick, you really want to win against him. 
  
  So what's a Blacklist? you ask.
  
  The Blacklist is a list that shows the top 15 racers in 
 Rockport City. Being a Blacklist racer is a major status symbol, and in order to get lower on the 
 Blacklist, you need to win a few races against the BL racer you're challenging. But in order to 
 catch a BL racer's eye, you have to gain street rep by winning races, earning bounty (police awareness) , 
 and milestones. Milestones are various challenges aginst the cops, like getting 50,000 bounty in 
 one race, or smashing through 3 roadblocks.
  
  So what's the game like? Well, it's orgasmically fun most of the time. Sometimes it's a pain, but 
 I'll get to that later. Anyways, the races really never get old, and the police chases.... WOW. 
 The cops start out really stupid, and mostly make embarrassing mistakes, but as you get in to the 
 game, the chases get fast, unpredictable, suspenseful, and overall the high point of the game. 
 The gameplay is the best part of this game, just like it should be.
  
  The graphics are SPECTACULAR. Plus, it doesn't take a million dollar machine to run it, like some 
 other games *cough F. E. A. R. *cough* 
  Shadows are realistic and light bounces off cars, as well as reflections. It's a work of art. It 
 also looks real - not plastic, like Doom 3.
  
  The sound is average. If you're not a fan of rap, the soundtrack really won't appeal to you, but 
 there is some screamo and nu-metal to keep the heavier dudes entertained. The cars sound like rice-burners, 
 which is expected, and the FX is good. However when you're in a police chase, the music switches 
 to grand orchestral arrangements, which is sweet.
  
  The one gripe I have with this game is that the difficulty is not set. Some races are a BREEZE, 
 while a few are IMPOSSIBLE. The difficulty also ramps up around BL racer #6, then goes down during 
 #4, then goes up at #3. Weird stuff. Also, while there is multiplayer, it removes a core feature 
 of the game, which makes it very hard to turn. You do a lot worse online then you do in single 
 player.
  
  All in all, this game is crazy. It's fun, beautiful, suspensful.... everything a good game should 
 be. Do yourself a favor and pick this one up. See you on the streets, bro! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zerkeer
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 27, 2005 4:12 am PT
Review:  omg best thing ever
  if u get pulled over by like highway cops
  you goi bet you are going to sell me a ticket to the highway cops ball" 
  so they go
  "highway 
 cops dont have balls"
  
  hahaha! -.-
  
  ok. well im really glad about the possibility to smash down the cops in most wanted and its alot 
 of fun. the cars are pretty cool. the customization could be a bit deeper but i guess its just 
 about okay.
  
  what really is annoying that your competitors after getting out of a certain range from you are 
 only simulated on the "radar" which means that they wont crash into cars or obstacles. thats a 
 really lousy solution.
  in 2005 you can expect from a racing game to simulate your adversaries throughout the whole race.. 
 i mean you dont have to simulate them in full graphics or anything, just some collision modells 
 racing around?
  
  also a soundtrack import feat would be great. i normally dont listen to hiphop and all the bullsh1t 
 radio music playing on and on can be pretty annoying.
  
  despite the fact that there are no replays and several other downsides the comeback of funny highway-cops 
 and the variety of race-types makes playing the game worthwile and is absolutely welcome.
  
  im still a little bit disappointed though but the game is fun.
  
  period.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hikaritsono
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 26, 2005 7:46 pm PT
Review:  == == == == == == == == == == == == == == == == == == == == == == == ==
  These are a fiction cars. Why do player's cars can't brake down?
  Just like a "GOD's car", an 
 old scool racing game!
  For example is "JUICED"... or..."COLLIN MC RAE"... they're great games!
  But "MOST WANTED" has 
 only 1 car's break down status..."blown engine"
  Nothing more, nothing less... no "nitro leaks", "transmition problems", "steering damages", "body 
 damage".
  == == == == == == == == == == == == == == == == == == == == == == == == 
  So, I have some suggestions for EA.
  More difficulity, please...
  More reality please...
 
  == == == == == == == == == == == == == == == == == == == == == == == == 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sean4566
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 26, 2005 5:39 pm PT
Review:  Just face it NFSU2 was crap compared to midnight Club 3 (well I thought it was) . Well now heres 
 NFSMW a racing game thats trying real hard to take the racing crown and probably just did. An amazing 
 racing game, not perfect but amazing. The Car and Customization section is amazing, every thing 
 is amazing. The only problems I had is the city could be a little more free roaming and the controls 
 are a bit too sensitive. But other than that a racing game that every NFS fan should pick up. ( 
 one thing though, if you're a tuner only fan this might not be the game for you because even though 
 it has tuner cars it is more suited to Lambo's and Porsches etc.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: loalsharif
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 26, 2005 1:30 am PT
Review:  I'm not so into racing games I'm more into games life (FEAR, SCCT, COD2.. etc) majoring on action/adventure 
 games, and when I first played underground series I confirmed my feelings toward the racing games 
 which is: racing games lose.
  
  When I got Most Wanted and played the game I was astonished by its gameplay, the game did a very 
 good mix between the chase part and the story line by achieving a known mount of bounty in order 
 to challenge the next rival on the blacklist which makes the gameplay so in suspense.
  
  The bullet time feature (Key G) is AWESOME, now you can maneuver any street cars before you crash 
 by hitting the bullet time where you can dodge in a nutshell.
  
  I was playing Splinter Cell 3: Chaos theory, but when I got this game I left Chaos theory for a 
 break :P its the first enjoyable car racing game EVER! 
  
  For those who dont have the game, GET YOURS NOW.
  
  PeaCe,
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dhruv_84
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 26, 2005 12:15 am PT
Review:  Just got the game and I must say the game is like the real deal ! the graphics and the gameplay 
 are truly world class, the music however seems to be a bit mediocre. but the cars and the different 
 challenges make up for it.
  
  going through the cars, i havent seen any ferrari cars yet though. the police pursuit seems to 
 be quite easy to evade at first but as u play more and complete more challenges... it becomes tougher 
 and tougher. havent started with a career mode yet so cant comment on that. but some features are 
 eye catching namely the speedbreaker control and the slow mo when u first sight a police car during 
 a challenge which adds to the realism. the game is worth the money thats for sure.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: maorint
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 25, 2005 12:51 pm PT
Review:  NFSMW, one of the best NFS games.
  
  Graphics- the graphics are AWESOME, the reflections are beautifull, but the game was too bright 
 and shiny, so it gave m, e a headache
  
  Gameplay- the gameplay is addictive, and its fun as hell, but the nitrous control is a bit sluggish.
 
  
  Music- finnally! proper music! they have lots of metal, lots of punk, and a one stupid song of 
 the rock, but i can forgive that.
  
  Value- its fun to come back to the game when u want intense multyplayer action, or fun LAN gaming, 
 or that u just wanna decorate cars :P
  
  Overall- this game is great , better not miss it.
  ill give it a 9.2! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scrooge_29
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 25, 2005 12:17 pm PT
Review:  WAT I THINK HONESTLY IS YOUD BE STUPID NOT TO GET IT IF U GET IT YOU KNOW WAT I MEAN ALL THESE 
 GUYS THAT PUT A REVIEW ALL KNOW HOW MUCH THE GREATNESS OF DIS GAME IS BEST NF GAME EVER MADE IN 
 THE HISTORY OF MANKIND IT ODENST DEREVE A 10 FOR RATING IT DESEVES ATELEAST LIKE A 50 OUT OF 10 
 LOL BEST NF GAME EVER MADE IN THE HISTORY OF MANKINDBEST NF GAME EVER MADE IN THE HISTORY OF MANKIND 
 BEST NF GAME EVER MADE IN THE HISTORY OF MANKINDBEST NF GAME EVER MADE IN THE HISTORY OF MANKINDBEST 
 NF GAME EVER MADE IN THE HISTORY OF MANKINDBEST NF GAME EVER MADE IN THE HISTORY OF MANKINDBEST 
 NF GAME EVER MADE IN THE HISTORY OF MANKINDBEST NF GAME EVER MADE IN THE HISTORY OF MANKINDBEST 
 NF GAME EVER MADE IN THE HISTORY OF MANKINDBEST NF GAME EVER MADE IN THE HISTORY OF MANKINDBEST 
 NF GAME EVER MADE IN THE HISTORY OF MANKINDBEST NF GAME EVER MADE IN THE HISTORY OF MANKINDBEST 
 NF GAME EVER MADE IN THE HISTORY OF MANKINDBEST NF GAME EVER MADE IN THE HISTORY OF MANKIND 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rattyocaster
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 23, 2005 3:01 pm PT
Review:  If you like fast games with cars and your idea of seeing pretty lights is red and blue flashes 
 getting smaller in your rear view mirror then this game is definitely for you. Or even if you're 
 just a fan of the series I'd still say go and buy it. Either way, here's some history for you.
 
  
  A long time ago a company called Electronic Arts decided to release a racing game which instead 
 of being based on a race track was based on the open road and the general gist was to win the race 
 while dodging traffic. The game was called Need For Speed and it became a real success.
  
  This became a winning formula and as a result EA decided to release a sequel (Funnily enough called 
 Need For Speed 2) which was fairly similar to Need for Speed but with better sound and different 
 tracks. Again, big success.
  
  Those of you who have heard of a lot of the games EA have released will know about the Road Rash 
 series. A series of bike racing games where the idea was to race on public roads while trying to 
 avoid being knocked off by other riders and the police in an attempt to arrest you, obviously the 
 ultimate goal was to win the race still on your bike. Need for Speed was already based on road 
 racing, so the next logical step was to borrow another ingredient from the recipe that made Road 
 Rash a success. The Police. So Need for Speed 3: Hot Pursuit was born, again a similar mix of road 
 racing and police which was a great success, Personally I think the next NFS game should be mentioned 
 in the same paragraph because the next release was more of a Need for Speed 3.5 than a Need for 
 Speed 4 (we'll call it for to be simple) . Need for Speed 4: High Stakes (AKA Road Challenge to 
 us in Europe) included the same cars and tracks as Hot Pursuit but with better police and more 
 cars and tracks to choose from.
  
  After these, EA went back to the racing formula without the cops with Need For Speed: Porsche Challenge/Unleased/2000 
 (Depending on what it got called in your area again) which in my mind was a bit of a flop, but 
 I'm sure plenty of Porsche fans are hating me right now.
  
  Then EA went back to the winning formula. Cars, Roads, traffic and Police with Need For Speed: 
 Hot Pursuit 2. This Also included the added bonus of a helicopter that dropped bombs to stop you. 
 Apart from the helicopter though the game was a blast. 
  
  Then the Need For Speed Underground series opened. Street racing at night, without cops and the 
 main aim is to customise the appearance and running of the car to your desires. Same again with 
 Underground 2 but more options available.
  
  Now, we have the big release of Need for Speed: Most Wanted. If we were to quantify this as just 
 another in the series it's technically Need for Speed 9. Back to the old cops and speeder formula 
 with a lot of the customisability from Underground 2 and the free roam mode from Underground 2. 
 However the police use lots of grand tactics. They have helicopters, spike strips, road blocks 
 (some of which have been known to include civilian vehicles and even an 18 wheeler when they're 
 short on cars) and SUV's. All of the normal pursuit cars are based on the sports cars and when 
 you get near the end of the game they have Chevrolet Corvettes with laughing gas under the bonnet 
 (hood) , Nitrous Oxide!!!
  
  Most wanted has some of the greatest graphics I've ever seen, with motion blur, light flare and 
 the usual details, but the detail of the car models and scenery is fantastic, just don't do too 
 much sightseeing otherwise you might not make the next corner. Some other things you'd notice are, 
 you come out of a tunnel and in real life you'd be blinded while your eyes become used to the light 
 of day, Need For Speed has got it.
  
  A cool new feature of Most Wanted is the "Speed Breaker" which if you've ever played Max Payne 
 you'll know all about. It's bullet time, so when you come up to a sticky situation and you need 
 the extra reaction time, it's there to help you. A very gimicky feature but it'll certainly save 
 your bacon when you're trying to outrun the pigs.
  
  The difficulty of the game is just about right, however when you've completed the regular stuff 
 and you want to get the 100% absolute complete, it's very difficult to stay concentrated for some 
 of the tasks you need to fulfil. Hopefully I've not given too much away (I'm sure I'll get shouted 
 at if I have) but I hope this helps you decide on whether you want this game or not and thanks 
 for reading :-)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: barbutza69
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 23, 2005 1:10 pm PT
Review:  What can I say bad about Most Wanted? Not much. The gameplay is very good but there is nothing 
 added or improved, it's practically the same as the one from Underground 2. The graphics are excellent, 
 there are even moments when they shine, like when you drive out of a tunnel and the sun blinds 
 your sight for a couple of seconds. The sound... well it's a driving game, so motor rumbling, tire 
 screeches... it's all there. Well there is one thing I personally don't like... the music... i think 
 that Underground and Underground 2 had a better sound track... but we are talking about my taste 
 in music... not Most Wanted. 
  One good thing that they did not take from Underground 2 is the importance of an awesome looking 
 car... there is practicaly no diference in driving a good looking car or a normal car. And you know 
 what?? There are too few Josie Maran videos!!!! I think that if it had more clips with this beautiful 
 model it would have made the game more.... colorful.
  
  With all that said you may ask why just 8.6? Why not 10? Because there is no big difference between 
 Underground, Underground 2 and Most Wanted. Sure the cops chasing you is fun... but it's the only 
 thing that makes Most Wanted more fun than the previous 2 Need For Speed games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mxms358
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 23, 2005 11:52 am PT
Review:  Well? first i thought, that it'll be just new underground. But when I've installed it on my PC 
 I understood, that it's not new underground it's a mix of hot pursuit and underground. When you 
 start the game you see rather good gameplay just you must learn controls and then you relax and 
 play. It's not too hard first, but then after blacklist#8 it became rather difficult, but not less 
 interesting. And now about graphics. Of course new great cars are very beautiful, tracks are rather 
 good too, but physics are not very natural. But it's Need for Speed, it's not GTR. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ledoantri
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 22, 2005 6:46 pm PT
Review:  Ha , this is the best game i've ever played . Feeling when u crush a police car so great , I got 
 almost car in this game and can say , every car have diffence sound , feel ... Allover it is a 
 great step from EA, cause they understand the need of us and bring it in the Most Wanted . In this 
 game , I use 2 cars , one : Viper and Two : GT , oh It runs so fast , i can get more than 215km/h 
 , but some of police's cars faster than me , i feel this is not reasonable . How can they faster 
 than me ? One more thing that i can't upgrate my BMW when I win No.1 , I got 89 % when i win No.1 
 so what will i do ? 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sharpdolphins
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 22, 2005 5:16 pm PT
Review:  hello guys i am tell you about my review about need for speed most wanted
  this game is really better than underground 2 cuz you are not find the racers 
  on direct races. but 
 there is an option to press the button any time for begin to races its no problem that which place 
 you are stand alone in the city. the 
  sound are very good and the cops are amazing. and the graphics are much improved than before. and 
 all the cars are good in handling and the major good thing about this game is the handling of your 
 car they show a great handling in all the cars like we never see before the other games. N20 systems 
 are very impressive and the model she name is Mia. it is a good model selected in the game she is 
 good looking in movies of cut scene. 
  the movies are excellent of this game. i like this game very much and i hope you are also impressive 
 about this game. just go to you near playstation
  shop and save your money to buy this game this is a very good game and best selling game of 2005;) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davidlgs
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 22, 2005 5:04 pm PT
Review:  This might be kinda a small review, but I just wanted to express myself and say that this game 
 is my favorite game in the whole world!!! They really could have made it longer but I still love 
 it!!! There is just so much to do! I really hate racing games but this one showed a diffrent side 
 to me! So flat out I love it 
  ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 
 ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 
 ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 
 ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 
 ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 
 ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Droges
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 22, 2005 4:58 am PT
Review:  This game stalled at the starting line!
  
  All show and no go:
  
  Lets cut to the chase, This game was a huge disappointment from the start. Game pad could not configure 
 proper and there are no dead zone adjustments. I spent top dollar on this mediocre game (if that) . 
 Its all dazzle with no meat on its bones. Sure the graphics are nice, but the whole game is spoon 
 feed to you with gay track arrow barriers, un challenging 4 lane highway racing, and poor car physics. 
 
  NFS: Porche unleashed is the benchmark so far (Motor city also) . It had car physics, insane damage 
 that would stay all through the career. If you wanted to keep your 944 crumpled up or couldn't 
 afford it, then thats the way it stayed. 
  NFS: MW has a car customize thing and a nice story mood, other then that I just didn't find it fun. 
 The police chases weren't enough to bring this game to a positive review. People said you had to 
 get into it. 5min I uninstalled it only to reinstall it again to see what I was missing, It was 
 a struggle of will to get to the free range mode where it added no enjoyment. 
  There are no replays present, no lasting damaging, poor rumble feedback, and lackluster driving 
 enviroments. For the love of Pete EA, please go back to your roots on making a solid customizable 
 game that isn't just for show. Bring back damage!
  As for the score, I don't understand how it gets such good reviews, maybe I demand to much out 
 of my race games, the more realistic the better. This is obviously an arcade game, an arcade game 
 that has console style (Rad Racer for NES comparable??) written all over it. 
  I feel this has lost the NFS credibility. 
  graphics: 8/10 nice and polished with a gritty feel
 
  gameplay:4.5/10 poor car physics, poor to none car damage
  sound:7/10 although the stock cobalt sounds already souped up??
  
  Bottom line: Rental for 
 console. Pc, avoid it. GTAuto series has better city racing, better damage and that isn't even 
 a racing game!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fijas
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 21, 2005 11:35 pm PT
Review:  The cop chases are the most wonderful aspect of the game. The music, AI, pursuitbreakers all add 
 to the fun and get your adrenaline pumping. The bullet-time like speed-breakers are also a fun 
 and innovative feature. Most of the game made me say "Been there, done that." But there are fun 
 additions that make the game worth a look. If you are a fan of the nfs series, definitely buy this 
 one. Another innovative aspect of the game is the video cut-scenes. They are a mixture of cgi and 
 real motion capture and create a quality effect. The dialogues are cliche but they didn't expect 
 an oscar for a gaming cut-scene anyway.... Good, Solid Game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Duncan_Brasier
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 21, 2005 4:14 am PT
Review:  Even though I don't own the game (only the demo) I play the actual game regularly from borrowing 
 it from various friends, so I think I've got a pretty good idea about what I'm talking about (please 
 correct me if I'm wrong anywhere) . I am only going to write about everything I've rated not the 
 story line or its funny cutscenes.
  The gameplay is good, it's just action, action and more action but apart from the racing in need 
 for speed there are the pursuits...
  These are what makes the game so much better than the underground series, it's like burnout mixed 
 with GTA, burnout speeds with GTA freedom, (what I mean is that you can go anywhere you like in 
 the city and out of the city) .
  But the damage is an issue. Your car has no real damage at all and neither does the traffic. It's 
 only the police that can be damaged.
  The graphics are great, slick and smooth, and they don't turn bad at high speeds. It's only the 
 rain thats a little strange when it hits the screen, but that's smooth too so graphically the game 
 is sound.
  The sounds are just perfect, you almost believe that the police are chasing you, the sirens are 
 super realistic, they even do that crazy thing that they sometimes do, (you'll know if you play 
 the game) , the coppers radio is impressively realistic and the music changes to the mood your in, 
 say if your being chased by the coppers the music turns fast and if you've got away it changes 
 to something slower.
  This is certainly the best Need for Speed game ever made I suspect so EA well done, good job.
 
  
  Have fun, DJB 
::::::

::::::
UserName: everlars
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 20, 2005 12:16 pm PT
Review:  YOU SHOULD PLAY THIS AMAZIN RACING GAME !!!! X
  X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X 
  X X X 
 X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X 
  X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X 
  X X X 
 X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X 
  X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X 
  X X X 
 X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X 
  X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X 
  X X X 
 X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brave-Master
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 20, 2005 8:51 am PT
Review:  I see this is a great game a new collections and it is a new style game like the black list 15 
 and the more interesting is the police how it can makes fights and you can destroy the police cars 
 , the EA track i think there is much rock musics but thay are great the cars olso are very good 
 thay are new cars. i am so sad becouse it is a short story game for who playing much time but it 
 is very funny thanks for reading .... it is the first time and i wont 2 upgrade my review ...... 
 next time i well be better thanks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saioro
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 19, 2005 5:52 pm PT
Review:  The Need for Speed is a the best game pursuit and tuning, o melhor jogo de todos os tempos de perseguio 
 e corrida =) .
  
  Com certeza absoluta a EA Games conseguiu mais uma ves superar todas as versoes anteriores do Need 
 For Speed e com grande estilo. E a melhor surpresa dessa vez  poder encontrar tanto os carros 
 tradicionais como as melhores maquinas do mundo com Porsche Lamborgini, entre outros. So ficou 
 faltando mesmo pra completar o jogo as queridas Ferraris e o estupido Sky-line, e os inesqueciveis 
 Acura Integra e Rsx.
  
  Sua parte grafica  realmente inovadora e perfeita, na verso PC  possivel ver at mesmo a marca 
 dos freios utilizados como por exemplo os freios da Brembo, ou os originais de fabrica Lamborgini 
 e Porsche.
  
  A trilah sonora tambem no fica atras, 2 horas de boa musica com direito a The Prodgy e Jamiroquai. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cbass3k
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 19, 2005 5:34 pm PT
Review:  although i find this game to be the best I have ever played from the series of need for speed games, 
 it seems a bit unrealistic. honestly, how is it possible for a car to stay in perfect condition 
 every time you hit an object or car or truck or anything on the road. and seriously, the lamp posts 
 falling down when you run over them? and not getting totaled when hitting the back of a truck? 
 or ramming in straight into a car going the opposite direction. the game should have included costs 
 for repairs.
  
  other than that the game is excellent. the beginning is a bit dull, with the game doing everything 
 for you at first, but the graphics are cool, and the music is good. 
  
  recommend this to anyone that lieks those racing games, or people that just like running form the 
 cops. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkSnakesoul
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 19, 2005 10:56 am PT
Review:  ITs another kick butt racing game . Ya i know its another need for speed which = should be aleast 
 fun. Well it is
  
  The game has the police which is fun because well it makes the race harder and also fun to run 
 from them showing them not to mess with you.
  
  But like all the series upgrades have been made, the police are smarter such as using road blocks (with 
 sometimes have cars blocking the road completely and 2 cars behind the road block to have as support 
 to stop you from getting through if you decide to be like me ram and go through. Cops also use 
 a helicopter to watch you and sometimes come down at you to try and use the sand and smoke that 
 pushes from the wind of its blades into your face. The police also gets mad... ya they do... if you 
 cause too much damages onto cars, police and property they need up calling in the big boys to stop 
 ya. Each time you get them really mad they increase on back up, road block uses and also SPIKE 
 STRIP. They also upgrade their cars to keep up with you so watch out for those hot cops.
  
  The game has online and also have story mode which is great so you can unlock cars. They also have 
 something called series or something like that where you have to beat objectives to move on, objectives 
 are all based on the police meaning some might have .... go take out 3 cop cars or get pass 2 road 
 blocks, stuff like that, each one you compelety and move on to it gets harder and harder.
  
  The game also adds a movie for your arrest... ya a movie... It shows you on the news which words 
 on the bottom of the screen about your arrest and also you get to watch a either female or male 
 cop take you down. Sometimes your character does stuff such as run from the cop or pushes the cop 
 away from him but at the end of the movie it still comes where the cop beats you down and wins 
 the movie scene lol.
  
  Over all great game to get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: n0s2004
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 19, 2005 10:49 am PT
Review:  Need For Speed has to be the best Racing Franchise over the years. Every game has been outstanding 
 & NFSMW is no exception. Know one thing before buying this, if your expecting it to be like NFS Underground 
 or NFSU2 with all those huge amount of customisations then your in for a rude awakening, the tuning 
 & customisations have been tuned down a lot.
  Another thing is that neons have have been removed, maybe bcoz the whole game takes place in broad 
 daylight so u would've hardly noticed it, the daylight part is nice for a change but doesn't capture 
 Street Racing. But this is no dissapointment bcoz the core gameplay remains solid as before so this 
 still makes this a solid title.
  One of the new elements is the Race Breaker which is a slow motion which gives u much tighter n 
 responsive handling so it makes moving out of harm's way a lot easier or making any last second 
 turns. The other new or shall i say old but returning feature is the pursuits which takes this game 
 to the top, instead of just earning respect by winning races u have to increase your bounty by getting 
 chased by cops & being a pain in their a**. the longer the pursuit lasts, the more havok u wreak 
 the bigger ur bounty becomes, u can earn extra bounty by immobilizing police vehicles.
  The graphics have been tuned up as you'd expect. The sound is the best, with the roar & rev of the 
 engines to the screach of the tires.
  Another change is that the popular tuner cars from NFSU like Celica, Acura RSX, Tiburon & Nissan 
 Skyline GT-R have been removed. This sucks i mean why remove Skyline which was the best car in the 
 previous 2 games. But some of u might be happy that the old supers cars like BMW, Mercedes & Lambourgini 
 make a comeback which is good at the same time.
  So this makes this game a must buy!
  Start Revving your engines & Burn rubber! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slim_shay
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 19, 2005 4:42 am PT
Review:  Undoubtedly it's a great game. I enjoyed, the graphics of street' looks real than the underground 
 series, I interested in the addition of BMW & Mercedes
  but the cars they are too shining! . I plam EA cause the low No of Cars than we hope & accessories 
 & BMW is n't opened from the beginning &the shortness the Game. I supposed that I'll have back my 
 BMW car when I finish the black list No 9 !! it didn't happen this the only point I didn't like 
 in the story. Allover it is a great step from EA, cause they understand the need of us and bring 
 it in the Most Wanted
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SZeroC
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 18, 2005 1:08 pm PT
Review:  Ever since the day I spent in a Bridgeport jail, I've despised the long arm of the law and their 
 flashing lights. Luckily, EA Games has released Need for Speed Most Wanted, a next-generation racer 
 that encourages the lawless to toy with the Man while making a name for yourself in the underground 
 racing circuit.
  
  As usual, you're the new kid on the block in the city of Rockport, hotbed of illegal street racing 
 and all the machismo surrounding such activities. With a souped-up Mercedes and something to prove, 
 it takes no time for Sgt. Cross, a tough talk cop with a hard-on for street racers, to harass your 
 ass and key your ride before letting you cruise on your merry way. But quicker than you can say 
 police brutality, Razor Callahan, a hothead showboat of ill-repute, overcompensates for his lack 
 of genitalia by challenging you to race. An engine malfunction costs you your pink slip and Razor 
 jets with your pride and joy. Disgraced and forced to pony up for a stock whip, it's up to you 
 to run the circuit, climb the Blacklist, and face that fool who won by default.
  
  Like most driving games, Most Wanted is all about upward mobility. Starting from the bottom, you 
 purchase a stock car, engage in some races, tweak your gear, and then engage in more races. Since 
 Razor resides at the top of the Blacklist, you have to complete a variety of requirements to oust 
 lesser racers. Winning circuit, sprint, and drag races puts you on the radar. Achieving Milestones 
 and increasing your Bounty solidifies your rep. Each racer has his/her own prerequisites; fulfilling 
 them gives you a shot at their title.
  
  Separating this game from the mass herd of underground racing games currently on the market is 
 the level of police involvement. The heat is out for you; in races, during free-roam, or via Bounty 
 missions. More often than not you'll be evading the boys in blue and your street-cred will be rewarded 
 handsomely for it. By far the best aspect of the game, Bounty missions inspire you to inflame the 
 ire of Smokey with reckless driving, property damage, and T-bones galore. Each Bounty Mission has 
 a subset of objectives, like cop cars totaled, duration of evasion, and traffic infractions perpetrated. 
 If you draw to much infamy, you can switch out your ride at a safe house and reintegrate with the 
 law-abiding.
  
  Though the differences between the this-generation and next-generation iterations of Need for Speed: 
 Most Wanted are nominal, the Xbox 360 version offers better graphics, particle effects, and more 
 cops on your tail. Featuring over thirty cars (painstakingly laser scanned by the EA team) , a variety 
 of races, and online support, Most Wanted shows off the polygon crunching power of the 360 while 
 providing aficionados of the genre a decent game with realistic racing physics and the all important 
 T and A thanks to the FMV rendering of Josie Maran. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bfeinberg
Rating: 4.3
Date: Dec 17, 2005 4:47 pm PT
Review:  I really enjoyed this game... until the designers threw a 10 foot thick brick wall in my way around 
 2/3rd the way through the game. When you get to trying to work your way to challenge the 5th person 
 on the Blacklist, you will be forced to have to either avoid 6 spike strips, tag 22 police cars, 
 or make it through 10 roadblocks. By the time you get even halfway through meeting one of these 
 milestone, you will be at Police Level 4. You will not ever be able to escape from the police at 
 this level unless you get completely lucky (I have tried 14 times now over the last 3 hours.... 
 yeah, that is real fun guys, and since I play games to have fun, and not get completely pissed 
 off, this game is going on ebay. There is of course no difficulty level selection that you can 
 choose from - so forget about any hope of completing the game.
  
  Unless you are a masochistic sadist twitch freak that has no issue with taking massive doses of 
 stimulants before playing a game to meet this games difficulty level, stay away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jfz
Rating: 9.9
Date: Dec 17, 2005 3:34 pm PT
Review:  WELL THIS GM IS ONE OF THE BEST RACING I HAVE EVER PLAY AND EA ALLMOST GOT IT PERFECT. WELL YEA 
 THIS GM MAKES TAKING DOWN THE HOLE BLACK LIST BUT THE THING THAT GOT ME SO MAD WAS THE LAST RACE 
 WICH AFTER TAKING DOWN RAZOR YOU HAVE TO GET AWAY FROM A LEVEL 6 HEAT WICH WILL MAKE U SO DEM PIST 
 OFF WITH EA BECAUSE ITS ALLMOST IMPOSSIBLE TO LOSE THE COPS AT HEAT LEVEL 6 BUT THE GOOD THING 
 ABOUT IT THAT U FEEL SO MUCH BETTER ONCE U GET AWAY FROM THE COPS AND U WILL BE THE MOST WANTED 
 TO BAD EA TOOK AWAY THE ONLINE PLAY I WAS REALLY LOOKING FOWARD TO BE THE MOST WANTED ONLINE 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Larrymon2000
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 17, 2005 11:25 am PT
Review:  This title has greatly improved upon the last one with excellent graphics, a fun storyline (though 
 ridiculous, I must admit) and a wide selection of cars and modes to choose from.
  
  From the last NFS game, Underground 2, this game reintroduces the police factor by adding racing 
 modes such as tollbooth beating and lap knockouts. Combining this new forms of gameplay with superb 
 environments, beautifully rendered vehicles and smarter A. I., this game reinvigorates the NFS series 
 of racing games.
  
  However, the games lacks the customization features of the previous game, offering fewer options 
 to change and tune your car. The series also takes away from the fun gallavanting throughout the 
 city by allowing you to race all events from a single garage (accessible through your in-game menu) . 
 By doing this, the world does not feel as immersive as the original, a world that would have players 
 memorizing street designs and locations to get to spots quicker.
  
  Overall, though, a great NFS title and an excellent PC racing game.
  
  A solid 9.0 out of 10 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DragonsLord
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 17, 2005 2:06 am PT
Review:  graphics of nfsmw rocks! i mean when i started playing this game, i was like, whoa? i was amazed 
 by the graphics and all effects, but you need a good pc to feel the game. anyways the graphics rock!. Love 
 that ea finnaly put exotics in the game, that gives the game strate 10 for gameplay (for nfs bcouse 
 there wore no exotics a long time ago) , but wait, where the heck are the cops in the online mode? 
 and why the heck ea forgot the replay mode?, that takes a lot from the game. sound is pretty good, like 
 the carrera gt, sounds just like the real thing, but what is with the gallardo?, it is like your driving 
 a v6 tuner, instead of v10 high end monster. value, whel, could of bin 3 dollars cheaper! oh, and whats 
 with the rubber band AI here? i mean, they are like 15 seconds behind me, and suddenly i crash in 
 the wall, and they are allready behind me like 1 sec.? oops, i got a little off topic here, sry, but 
 anyways, this game is very good, and it is definatly WORTH BUYING! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Too_Freak_4_U
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 16, 2005 8:55 pm PT
Review:  Certainly the best game of the need for speed series. You just can't stop playing till you finish 
 you career. Graphics are just excellent, sound give you the filling of being the driver himself. 
 And they finaly put cops on your tails it was rely a missing thing about the last nfs. When your 
 driving you realy fells the speed its pretty good but the driving style is more arcade then simulation 
 but it's good this way.. I think. So if you love the previous nfs (Need for speed underground 1 
 or 2) just run buy you this game its better with the cops and the inboard menu that allow you to 
 get directly at a race witout driving to the other side of the city like you where oblige to do 
 in last game. Resume in 3 words: just buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pell1979
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 16, 2005 8:52 pm PT
Review:  Take every good thing that can be said about the Underground series, throw in some amped-up graphics, 
 alot of cop cars, and many cut-scenes, and you've got NFS: Most Wanted.
  
  Firstly in direct contradiction to the review by Jeff Gerstmann (GS) the rubber-banding is not 
 very often noticeable, and makes for great racing. As for the AI on speed taking every short-cut 
 it can? You'll find early on in the game that not every shortcut is going to help you, in fact 
 many will hinder... why? Welcome to NFS: Most Wanted.
  
  One of the main differences that I have noticed, and love, is the more realistic driving experience 
 - Traction is King. Drive on asphalt and you'll keep up your speed, even around those nasty looking 
 corners (which you can drift around) , but choose some of those shortcuts into the dirt? Goodbye 
 traction, goodbye acceleration, goodbye exit speed around a corner.
  
  The other bonus is the simplification of the modding process. Gone is the days when you had to 
 choose an individual kit-piece for the front airdam, side skirts, and rear kit piece (I almost 
 invariably chose the same kit mod for the 4 sides) . You can now select from a few complete body 
 mods (different for each and every car) , which has allowed for EA to design, and incorporate, some 
 *very* sweet looking mods into the game.
  
  Only negetives? Scripted Drag-racing, in which you'll find every time you run a particular race 
 you'll be dodging the exact same way every time, and the somewhat annoying habit of fellow racers 
 to slow down when getting too close to oncoming traffic, which makes for a relatively easy way 
 to blow past your opponent.
  
  All in all EA has once again raised the bar when it comes to racing sims... nothing compares. Run, 
 don't walk, for your copy of NFS: Most Wanted now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: conorcouk
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 16, 2005 2:36 pm PT
Review:  I`m a fan of the need for speed games, but in every one there is ALWAYS something wrong. 
  e. g. underground=no free roam, not realistic, rubbish graphics
  underground 2=always night, not 
 realistic
  However most wanted has everything, it`s all virtually perfect.
  THE ONLY BAD THINGS ARE, cop`s sometimes get annoying, position in race is not always 100%
  
 
  One tip i found useful for getting money is when you complete a race for, say 4000 you are allowed 
 to go back and do it again.
  I just do a selection of races that i have done before that way i get money but don`t get bored.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DexCent
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 16, 2005 11:48 am PT
Review:  The game is just great. From the graphics, to the carachter's and game play. First of all the thing 
 that makes this game so good is the combination of fun and intensity that comes out thanks to the 
 chases and the carachters. The selection of races are perfect. You can do whatever you want. No 
 one who loves cars, emotions, intensity, problems can't let this game go away. 
  And the thing that makes this game more exiting is the BlackList. Why? Because is the thrill of 
 making it to the first place of this list that make you want to play over and over again, hour 
 after hour... And then, you just can stop it. That's the exiting that make this game so addictive. 
 And of course the races. The biggest deal in the game. You can do everything. Drag, Circuit, Drifting, 
 Knock Outs, Speed Trap, and those are just a few of them. But the best races are the ones you play 
 against the Blacklist members. 
  It just the best game of the Need For Speed series. And of course, one hell of a Xmas Present LOL.
 
  
  Enjoy it, that's the only thing you can do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yngvefoshaug
Rating: 7.9
Date: Dec 15, 2005 8:46 am PT
Review:  This is my first Need for Speed-game for PC in a while, as I bought the previous three games for 
 Playstation 2, and I like most of it, but not quite all.
  
  I have played quite a few Need for Speed-games: NFS2 SE, NFS4, NFS Hot Pursuit 2 (PS2) , NFS Underground 
 1 and 2 (PS2) , and now finally Need for Speed: Most Wanted.
  
  I may repeat some points already covered in the Gamespot-review, but this is my personal opinion 
 after playing the game a LOT.
  
  The game starts out with an intro that really reminds me of the Fast and Furious-movies (loved 
 by some, hated by others) . The (sort-of) computer-animated actors do a great job introducing us 
 in to the story in the game. After some intense driving-sequences/cutscenes against some easy opponents, 
 your wonderful (and very tuned) BMW M3 is taken from you and you have to start at the bottom with 
 some pretty weak rides (VW Golf, Lexus IS300 etc.) and have to work yourself back to the top on 
 the Blacklist (The ranking of the Most Wanted streetracers in the city...)
  
  Car-handling is interesting, but not realistic.. but then again... they are not supposed to be 
 realistic: this is a racing game, not a racing sim (like GTR, GT Legends, Nascar Racing 2003, F1 
 Challenge) . 
  
  They slide more on rain, and all the different cars have different handling. The RWD Toyota Supra, 
 for instance is very loose (oversteering) , while the 4WD Lamborghini Murcielago is much more stable 
 and feels like a lower car with lower center of gravity and more downforce. The cars can get paint-scratches 
 (that disappears after loading) and broken windows if you crash. This doesn't make them slow down 
 at all, as there is no actual damage in the game (except flat tires when you hit a police spike 
 strip which stops your car completely each time and you get busted) .
  
  A strange part of the handling is that the car autobrakes (brakelights light up and all) to stop 
 in first gear if you release the gas... I don't know why my car can't keep rolling till it stops. 
 I also think the manual gearing is a bit strange. If i gear to a high gear (dropping the RPM to 
 3000-4000 on a car with a redline at 8000) , the car completely stops accelerating! And i don't 
 exaggerate, it might actually lose speed even on flat ground. The car I drive in the real world 
 has manual gearbox, but THAT never happens... The engine might growl a bit if you shift too early, 
 but it always accelerates unless the engine stalls (which only happens below 1000rpm on normal 
 cars) ... I might be a bit picky as this doesn't happen to the high-level cars in the game. This 
 is also, as i previously mentioned, a game and not a sim, so I won't list it as a bad thing with 
 the game. (But had it happened in GTR i would have been angry) .
  
  I drive with a Logitech steering wheel, and I must say that the first 20-30 races are waaay too 
 easy, and due to the extremely powerful catch-up system (rubber-band AI) you can easily wait at 
 the beginning for 10 seconds before you start and still win by a mile after 3 minutes of racing... 
 It is a good way of introducing new players to racing games (maybe very young players too) , but 
 I kept wishing for a difficulty setting throughout this phase as the races were downright boring. 
 
  
  Luckily, the difficulty increases throughout the game, but at a point I think it's too much that 
 way too. The final races are almost impossible as it seems the other racers never crash with traffic 
 anymore, and that a traffic-car always seems to be in the apex of every turn when you are in the 
 lead (that is frustrating because it is so obvious the game is cheating to beat you) . 
  
  Another strange thing is uncovered at this stage too: catch-up only works one way! (and not for 
 your benefit) . This makes the races (which can be 15 minutes at this point) very frustrating indeed, 
 but the desire to see the finish of the game and the conclusion of the story compelled me to do 
 them. This is the kind of addiction I don't really like. I believe Catch-up should work both ways 
 or none at all.
  
  Oh, and I almost forgot to mention: Drag racing sucks!. It was a fun diversion in the Underground-games, 
 but here it is almost impossible (especially because i drive with a wheel) because you have to 
 nudge the stick (on a gamepad) or press the left/right BUTTON to change lane. I have to make dramatic 
 jolts on the steering wheel to change lane. I don't know how many times I've crashed in drag racing, 
 but the number is insane. For the next game, I hope people with steering wheels won't have to drive 
 "on rails" in the drag-racing. It kills the experience, and i generally never drove the drag when 
 i could avoid it.
  
  Graphically, the game shines.. literally... The cars are beautifully rendered and rain- and watereffects 
 are nice (the surface really looks wet when it rains) . The whole game has an over-exposed, blurred 
 feel to it that I liked a lot, but i think it was a bit too blurred in high speeds (doing 200Mph 
 with a Lamborghini Murcielago on the freeway was fun, but difficult to see anything at all) . Nice 
 effect, but maybe a bit overdone at times. Same thing with the light. When you enter a tunnel it 
 looks black, but once you get inside you can see well, but the exit is almost white. This gives 
 a feeling of the eyes adjusting to the light, but this effect is also a bit overdone. It reminds 
 more of what you might see on a cheap video-camera with bad auto-exposure than what it looks like 
 when you drive a real car into a tunnel.
  
  You can repaint cars and add vinyls (decorations) , spoilers, wings, custom hoods and roofs on the 
 cars. You can customise your car quite a lot which is a good thing if you want to do it, but racing 
 is more fun. 
  
  Police chases, as Gamespot mentioned, are the best part of the game, but be advised: if you want 
 to get the highest "scores" on your Rap Sheet, it might be a good idea to do some of them early 
 on in the game. For instance, if you want to beat the time for longest police chase (which is 30 
 minutes...) , it is almost impossible to do it later in the game when the higher levels of police 
 are unlocked (helicopters, spike strips, SUVs that ram you and Corvette police cars)
  
  Best parts: Graphics, Sound, the "need for speed"-feeling, the feeling of speed :-) , POLICE!!!!, 
 Good selection of cars (more than 30) , Josie Maran ;-)
  
  Worst parts: Some of the graphics, difficulty (too easy and too hard) , catch-up, DRAG-RACING
 
  
  What I MISS: More cars (as always) , more non-city areas, horn on the cars ( i miss honking when 
 i pass police at 150MPH) , day-cycle, DASHBOARD!!! (It adds 100% more car-feeling to a game)
  
  Conclusion: Everybody will enjoy this game for a while, though i am wondering about lasting 
 appeal. If you want to drive tricked-out import cars AND supercars AND run from the police, this 
 game has it all. 
  
  Reason I bought it: I love beautiful cars, speed and POLICE CHASES!! (I've missed them in both 
 Underground-games... and now they are BACK) . (Please, EA, never remove the police again...) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Portugaman
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 15, 2005 3:34 am PT
Review:  Need For Speed Most Wanted is the best of all Need for Speed not just be the last but have a different 
 tip of asks, graphics, and the difficulty is just right, i like i hope that you also like this 
 game because its amazing.
  Now you like understand better the game you can do this:
  If you are a brazilian or Portuguese and need a legends for need 4 speed most wanted you can go 
 | http://www. gamevicio. com. br/index2. php? pag=search&q=need+for+speed+most+wanted | you need a registry 
 but is easy just install and enjoy enjoy enjoy enjoy enjoy ;-) I dont have more words for you. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nag
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 14, 2005 8:12 pm PT
Review:  NFS Most Wanted is a really good ans an incredible fusion of NFS Hot Pursuit and NFS Underground 
 series. For the ones who love driving but with a little more action it's the game of the year. 
 The first time I've played the only thing that came to my mind was "WOW", because the graphics 
 are great, the new system for physics is so real, and the best things EA puts in that game is the 
 bullet time that you can now control and, the ones who have played NFS Underground will agree with 
 me, the auto regeneration system of NOs. Unfortunately, there's some bugs sometime in the game, 
 the most apparent is when the bullet time has start, for example when you do a big jump or when 
 you pass through a roadblock, you can go through objects or even through a police car. Another 
 bad thing is the damages done to your car, you never lose parts like, you only crack your windows 
 and scrap your paint. But in general this game is very good and can be played a long time before 
 getting annoyed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: haqerj
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 14, 2005 12:21 am PT
Review:  I hate racing games i've never liked them but i can finnally say there is a racing game that is 
 worth playing. Need for speed most wanted Is the best racing game ever.
  
  graphic freaking awesome
  sound great
  gameplay more than just racing which really makes it 
 kick ass
  
  What really makes this game better than all the rest is mostly the cars don't go spinning out of 
 control when you barely turn a bit and that you can go right from one mission to the next or just 
 drive around freely when ever you want.
  
  Do your self a favor a pick this up. heck get the free demo and see for your self it's great 
::::::

::::::
UserName: awadation
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 13, 2005 9:50 pm PT
Review:  this is the best need ever !! unlike nfs ug2 u need to drive all arround the city to begin a race 
 that was uncomfortable at all ... her u can go to race from the game's menu (safe house) that's 
 great !!.. every thig that the player needs is here great graphics and nice story .. and nice rides 
 2 hehehe ..
  u need a powerfull pc to play with a v. high resolution with ev. is set to max ..
  u'll be fully 
 satisfied !! im playing 1280 x 1024 with ev. is set to max with a 6800 GT OC and 1 gb of ram 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zironn
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 13, 2005 9:16 pm PT
Review:  If you like Need for Spped: Hot Pursuit and Need for Speed: Underground, then you will most likely 
 love this game. The simplified shops make it easy to find all the parts you want, and the chance 
 to toy with the law adds thrill to the beautiful graphics already present. The new Blacklist and 
 the ability to win an opponents car is another new feature that makes choosing your rewards after 
 each new opponent a thrilling choice. The new set of cars playable in this game are another always 
 fun feature of the Need for Spped series. And, without a doubt, Most Wanted is the best in the 
 series. Give it a spin, you will enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chan001
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 13, 2005 9:15 pm PT
Review:  What a terrific release by EA. This is the best racing game in the history of racing game (until 
 now) . U got your heat level for your car? What a nightmare. When your heat level reach 5, it will 
 be like hell, maaaan. got helicopter over u, what more? of cause that damn spike strip and those nastier 
 police chace over u. When ever u successful escape, u will say's "huh finally". u will get what 
 i mean if u already play this game. U got many car to choose from even need for speed hot pursuit, 
 lamborgini muchielago also have. It very fast. This is the best game in this holiday season, so 
 try it, u won't regret. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mozarp
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 13, 2005 7:48 pm PT
Review:  This Game is Great . Needs More Work . Needs to be able to do more to the cars and stuff . more 
 tracks .& Muscel cars The one you have on the Blace you can't do anything with it . You can't Tune 
 up the engen , Put new parts or anything to it and that kind of sucks. but the Game is Fun as hell 
 . I'm 49 and play it every day . I've already went through all of it and ready for a new game to 
 come out .Wish they made xspanstion Packs for these games with new Tracks , Cars And Parts Graphics 
 . Now That would be Kewl .They need to do that with all the Need fr Speed Games From Need For Speer 
 Under Ground , Need For Dpeed Underground 2 and Need For Speed Most Wanted . Now That would be 
 so kewl . Then they could sell them like 24.95 somethimg like that and we would always have new 
 games with new Cars Tracks and Towns . That would be Kewl . Hope they do that some day . There 
 Racing Games Are the Best .
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hamidg
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 13, 2005 4:27 pm PT
Review:  After NFS Underground 2 and the repeatitiveness of Juiced, Most Wanted has brought new life into 
 the racing game genre. Looking at the gameplay, graphics, fisics and the detail Most Wanted is 
 excellent and a TOP SELLER for sure.
  
  The demo of the game just tickles your taste butts for more........ Addictive the game is and promises 
 to keep gamers behind there computer screens for hours, if not days.
  Most wanted has all of the customization of underground with all of the tinted windows, rims, gauges, 
 paint, vinyls ,and much more. You make your own custom car from the body kit to the paint color 
 then go up against all of the other people within the game that have there own fully customized 
 car.
  The folks at EA have brought back the police cars from need for speed Hot Pursuit one and two that 
 we all know and love but with some upgrades. While you play through the game while your car gets 
 better the police cars get better. While you get better at the game the police tactics increase 
 to try to keep it even. The police are one of the best parts of this game because they make the 
 game more real and exciting. The only problem is that the cops in this game arent very smart, 
 but what they lack in smarts they make up in numbers and brute force. Think about is what racing 
 game causes people to explode when thay play it. Come on man its just to sick. You have to be a 
 serious gamer to handle this. If u want to get the full effect get the xbox 360 or a sick PC with 
 a Sick graphics card also a flat screen or some sort of high definition monitor. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryan_rocks29
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 29, 2006 10:55 pm PT
Review:  Need for Speed Most Wanted is definetly the best Need for Speed game made. It is like the older 
 Need for Speed Hot Pursuit games combined with the Need for Speed Underground games, which makes 
 it a racing game for everyone. The cars in NFS Most Wanted are amazing as well and the fact that 
 you can tune them up is outstanding. The Pursuits in the game are very fun as well, because unlike 
 in the NFS Underground games you could not smash through things, in this game you can smash through 
 cars, trees and many other objects.
  
  If you have the right things, the PC version of NFS Most Wanted is definetly the best version out 
 of all. 
  
  - What you need is a newer powerful video card (Radaon X800/GeForce 7800 recommended)
  - An anolugue 
 controller (Logitech Dual Action recommended)
  - Lot's of Memory (512MB DDR RAM recommended)
  - And a powerful processor (Pentium 4/AMD Athlon 
 64 Recommended)
  
  If you play NFS Most Wanted with all of these things, NFS Most Wnted will be one of the greatest 
 racing games you have ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: waikit25
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 12, 2005 5:47 pm PT
Review:  I just bought the game and tried it. The graphics for this is very good and it runs well on my 
 pc which is only average end. The AI is very tricky. For the first races, i can overtake the opponents 
 and win the races quite easily, but later the AI seems to become geniuses, ganging up to put me 
 out of the way @#$#$%% but thats good, makes the races more challenging. But I was hoping for a 
 gradual approach in difficulty rather than this. The sound effects are amazing, really powerful 
 engine sounds. The music is average but for some quite  
 nothing to say  
::::::

::::::
UserName: d3boy2001
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 12, 2005 12:48 pm PT
Review:  This game is the best i've ever played. The sparks, The Police, The Falling-Off Doors, The Cars 
 (escecially the Mercedes-Benz) , The Game, The Sound (if you have good speakers) And The Cover Just 
 Tell You Why It's Already 7:00 AM.
  The Scenario Is Perfect For The Situations, And The Weather And Time Are So Realistic! Also I Love 
 The Traffic! Expecially The Going-Under-The-Truck Thing!
  
  Say This 10 Times!
  
  -I Must Buy This Game Because It's So Good
  -I Must Buy This Game Because It's So Good
  -I 
 Must Buy This Game Because It's So Good
  -I Must Buy This Game Because It's So Good
  -I Must Buy This Game Because It's So Good
  -I Must Buy This Game Because It's So Good
  -I 
 Must Buy This Game Because It's So Good
  -I Must Buy This Game Because It's So Good
  -I Must Buy This Game Because It's So Good
  -I Must Buy This Game Because It's So Good
  
 
  And Yes, It's Worth It! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hwoarang8
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 12, 2005 1:54 am PT
Review:  Way cooler cars then Underground 2, the slowdown mode is cewl...
  Best car definitely the Dodge Viper...
  The game is Great worth your money... A. I. of police 
 could be a little better... but it's great anyway... the longer the chase is the more heat you'll 
 get... CEWL... TRY IT OR BUY IT... It's to good to be never played. NFSU was only at night. NFSMW 
 is fully in daylight it's way better coz it has better details. The only lame thing i found was 
 that the helicopters when giving chase are without fuel in like 3 minutes. They could've made that 
 period a little longer cos it helps you make a longer chase... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eddyissa
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 11, 2005 5:39 pm PT
Review:  brilliant gaming experience is what i have to say.. this game though not perfect could be the closest 
 to perfect we could get because while keeping to the traditions of the older versions it fixes 
 every problem that i have ever come to blows with in the previous instalments which is sayin sumthin.. underground 
 1 there was no story.. underground 2 they tried for a story but we got some crappy voice acting 
 an a useless story to top it off. explore mode was the only way to get around in underground 2 
 and underground 1 there was no explore mode at all.. so this game really does fix all that stuff 
 which makes it pretty darn brilliant. physics of the game take a bit of doing to get used to but 
 apart from that the game is really brilliant from start to finish.. thinking twice to buy this 
 game would be a complete waste. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mister_JJ
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 11, 2005 5:18 pm PT
Review:  ... but i expected little more from EA Sports. There are few bugs that must be removed. Just like 
 NFS Underground 1 & 2, this NFS has it... i mean i`am driving and i am winning the race with 11.3 
 sec in front of all and suddenly the opponents are right behind me (i`am driving very good :) , 
 i`am using all shortcuts) . What happened !!! You probably know what i mean (because my English 
 is poor) it probably happened to you to. I hope that EA Sports (respect) will remove that "bug" 
 from next NFS. I`am huge fan of NFS series but i`am telling you, this MUST be removed. 
  
  RESPECT!!!
  Mr. JJ 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mohamadouf
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 11, 2005 4:08 pm PT
Review:  Need for speed most wanted, combining the awsome gameplay of underground and the hot police pursuits 
 of the old need for speeds this game deliver a hugh amout of plain fun.
  
  still dont get to excited after a while of playing this game you get so damn bored because after 
 a while you find yourself playing the same races over and over again.
  
  and trust me AI isnt that brilliant so its either very smart or very stupid and the cops as well 
 are either hard to destroy or very easy.
  
  GAMEPLAY. the game is so similar to underground two .. i mean you almost controll you car the same 
 way you did in UG2 stability, power slides 
  new stuff are here, time breaker .... that thing we find in almost all the game we got on the market 
 now.
  
  you hit a bottom and bam! time slow down and your car amazingly can now steer 180 degree. yeah 
 not very realistic but still fun.
  
  graphics are so awsome i really can't describe it enough but i will only say its so good ..
  
 
  Audio... the game contain the best sound effects and the worst sound tracks they could get thier 
 hands on ... i mean they put rap, rock and techno music in the game but nothing is as good as the 
 old sound tracks previous games had.
  
  AI.. your opponents are either so cleaver to out run you or so stupid to hit everything on the 
 road so whenever you far ahead they still will catch up with you and outrun you anytime..
  
  one time i was 12+ seconds ahead of a car and 3 seconds after that i found the car next to 
 me.
  
  CAR UPGRADES AND PART , still the same with a hundred added vynles and other stuff...
  
  the 
 city itself looks very similiar to Need For Speed Hot Pursuit 2 
  
  anyways in the end i have to say that EA finally made a need for speed that reminded us gamers 
 of the revolutionary need for speed that tought gamers what is meant of driving games but still 
 not quite the best in the series.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghaziry
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 11, 2005 5:14 am PT
Review:  the game feature in its new look and way of play never seen in any driving game yet to come, but 
 expectations were higher than the result's out come, the game lack of game play and some unrealistic 
 features set it back a bit, graphic wise the game has reached its max potenials, but with an edjing 
 curve, the history of need for speed has evoloved to a new revlution of the driving games. but 
 with time to come i think tommorow's need for speed would set a new record of the driving era. 
 the story wise it sets on a complex yet narrow story, and diving in to unrealistic story line, 
 and the tunning part is something we have seen in the old NFS not much manuverble, you dont have 
 much control on ur tunig car. I think they should have worked more detail on tuning to make it 
 look as half as realistic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monobeno
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 10, 2005 7:27 pm PT
Review:  CALN AENIGMA When writing your review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 
 words minimum. We encourage you to try to get your review right the first time -- you may choose 
 to edit it later on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. 
 We encourage you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local 
 disk, then copy and paste it into the posting box  
 ? ? ? ? ? ? ???? ? ? ?? ?  ?  ? ?  ?? ?  ? ??  ?  ? ?When writing your review, remember to keep 
 the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. We encourage you to try to get your review 
 right the first time -- you may choose to edit it later on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive 
 feedback associated with the review. We encourage you to write your review in a word processor 
 or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy and paste it into the posting box below 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reedler1234
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 10, 2005 9:16 am PT
Review:  most wanted is a lot like need for speed underground but in many ways different, you have the customisation 
 abilities from underground but you have the daylight chases from hot pursuit which is great! its 
 actually in daylight this time with some nice weather changes and other things, read on, this game 
 is great.
  
  The first thing you will see is a really cool cutscene, its amazing how they make it loo so real, 
 they look like they went and recorded it with a camcorder but they didnt, its really nice, and 
 also the voice acting and every car noise is great, its really realistic and fun to listen to and 
 watch. the roads also are really shiny after it rains and the reflection of the sun blinds you, 
 which is a nice touch, adds to the overall realism to this game.
  
  There is another thing in this game, high speed police chases. this bit of the game is the most 
 fun ive had in a long time with a racing game, its just oo much fun trashing the police cars and 
 outrunning them and all this for fun and bounty which adds up to your "heat" meter which goes up, 
 when taht goes up, it gets harder to outrun the police, like road blocks and the do the block formation 
 and all sorts, its unbeleivably fun, its great!
  
  This has all the customisations in the previous game except more now, and its kinda easier, the 
 menu has been revamped and the music is great, they have some good rap tracks and they have these 
 crazy songs that want to make you go faster on the race which adds to the fun.
  
  This game actually has a storyline, its not great but its good to watch the cutscenes and its good 
 you know what youre working up to, its pointless running around just to get rep like in the underground 
 series, this one actually tells you what to do, its great, you know exactly what youre diong and 
 when you have to do it, and of course it has the free roam on the streets and the GPS so you cannot 
 possibly get lost.
  
  This game has got rid of the drift races and street x races we all knew and loved from the underground 
 series and replaced them with better ones, like you go from one place to another against people 
 trying to get the highest speed possible which is great.
  
  This game should be played even if youve played the previous games, its better thana ny other racing 
 game you will play in a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gkraju
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 10, 2005 8:10 am PT
Review:  Most Wanted is undoubtedly the best so far in the series if not the best racing game ever on the 
 PC. The things that makes Most Wanted stand out are the never seen before police pursuits and some 
 of the other races. There has been lot of hype about the difficulty but I felt the difficulty is 
 Just Right. The AI gets stronger as you move up the BL and annoyingly catchup real fast if you 
 make mistakes. But one can win races without much repititions if you are decent good driver, do 
 less mistakes. Even the most difficult races can be won second or third time at the Max except 
 for the Drag racing which really gets frustrating due to the traffic coming head on but you need 
 apply logic in few races to avoid the traffic like slowing down when you know you are going to 
 hit the truck moving across the road till it passes for second. The most boring races are the Circuit 
 and Lap Knockout and really hate going round and round especially on the large tracks. The new 
 races like SpeedTrap, TollBooth are great. The Drag is really challenging. The missing element 
 most is the lack of part and performance upgrades for the BMW M3 GTR. This car has been on each 
 and every promo of Most Wanted but suprisingly EA has given no upgrades for it!!.
  
  Coming to the gameplay, it is fabulous with the pursuits, great with all the other races. The pursuits 
 make about 70% of the races in the game. The difficulty is definetly just right as anybody would 
 expect to have a challenge unlike winning easily without a fight in a racing game like this. I 
 have beaten the BL #1 pretty easily having to rerace only one race. You have to be a good driver 
 who does as much less mistakes as possible to win this game. Boy oh boy the cops really go crazy 
 at you after Level 5. The chopper almost flies beside ur ride just a few feet off the ground sometimes. 
 Exhilarating stuff.
  
  Graphics are great for the racing game. EA has always been Great with Graphics part. The sense 
 of speed is amazing and blinding at times.
  
  Music and sounds are fabulous and huge improvement compared to the UG2. The engines sound great.
 
  
  Most Wanted has around 20-25 hours of gameplay in it including the challenge series and I am sure 
 has good replay value considering the scintillating pursuits. The cars are amazing and there a 
 lot of Exotics like the porsches, BMW, Lambos, McLarens, Etc. The one suprisingly missing from 
 the list is the Ferrari with which list looks complete. EA until UG series has always had Ferrari 
 but Dont know why they are excluding them recently.
  Need for Speed Most Wanted is all about Cops barring one or two old race modes and a must play 
 for any racing fan.
  
  Checkout the Lamborginis. Both of them are beasts at performance and handling. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ashlyantony
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 10, 2005 4:47 am PT
Review:  This game is really awesome, it feels like a combination of both Need For Speed Versions of Hot 
 Pursuit and Underground put together.
  Though nothing comes easy, this game makes you feel for more as you let cops chase you at your 
 tail and give them the slip, Ha.. Ha.. ; that's when the satisfaction flows into your mind of escaping 
 great obstacles and letting them know you are no sucker.
  I have done a lot of crashing and have been even busted.. but it makes me win more with the cops 
 always following me..
  This game really blows my mind out as I have played both the versions I have listed plus Underground 
 2.
  Go check it out and find out if you are able outsmart the Cops, or be with the Cops and crash some 
 racers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: quivara00
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 10, 2005 3:57 am PT
Review:  I lost many hours playing this game.
  Its not the kind of game that you will have to play for hours to learn...
  That makes this game 
 just fun.
  Everything is just better than NFS U2, but no one can forget the cops...
  So i can say that besides graphics, sound, they got something more to
  entertain us.
  The story 
 mode is very attractive too.
  And the cars are just perfect. plenty of dream cars, many things to put under the hood. And many 
 things outside too
  The streets are just perfect to run against others, much more to run against the cops...
  Wonderful 
 game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pineau111
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 9, 2005 5:38 pm PT
Review:  the game is awsome and youd better believe it because it is the best game. the game is very fun 
 to play but it takes a little while to get used to it if you havent played any other need for speed 
 games. so i would have to say that you have to play it to believe it. thats all i have to say about 
 this game and if you dont take my word for it then i guess that you will just have to buy the game 
 and play it for yourselves. then you can tell me what you think about the game. They say that the 
 game is supposed to be very good on the xbox 360 and the ps2 but i do not have either of them so 
 i could not tell you. well thanks for letting me put this review in the website it really means 
 alot to me.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zizomako
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 9, 2005 4:28 pm PT
Review:  The Game Is Incredible. It's Uniqueness To Be Found In That It Takes The Best Part In The Last 3 
 Editions In The Series.
  It Takes The Pursuit & The Cops Chases From HotPursuit2 But In A Very Cool Way Of Course. The City 
 Here Is Open There Is NO Tracks For You Just Take The Course You Like (In Free Roams Mode) , & It 
 Takes The New Style That Firstly Appeared In The Underground Edition, & The Free Roaming Style 
 From Underground2.
  But & I'm Sorry To Say Such A But About Such A Game, Did You See The Movies Of The Game? What The 
 Hell Is This. I Felt Like I'm Watching An Intro Of An Adult Movie, (Let Me Check Under The Hood) 
 I'm Not Uptight Or Something But Where Did They Brought These Actors. & Did You See Shaft
  Sorry I Mean That Black Cop He Reminded Me Very Much With The 70's Shaft Movie. The Actors Was 
 Really Really Lousy Despite The Story Line The Story Line Was Good They (In EA) Could Do The Cutscenes 
 Much Better Than This Crab. & What About That First Person Style In The Cutscenes I Think It Isn't 
 That Great (Specially With Such A Great Cast)
  But Despite That The Game Is Very Good & So Fun To Play & I Think It's The Best Edition In The 
 Series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mista_F
Rating: 5.3
Date: Dec 9, 2005 1:24 pm PT
Review:  Why do some of these games control a car like it got a broomstick stuck in the middle. It just 
 pivots side to side completely unrealistic. This may keeep the boy racers happy for a few days 
 but not me. I call a good racing sim TOCA Race Driver, now thats realistic. This is just flash 
 and no substance, its a hyped up film spin off. I'd said the need for speeds 2 and 3 years ago 
 were better. Im very disssapointed witth this game. I didn; t give this game too much time if it 
 doesn't hook me in 10 minutes its not worth the effort. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kwinsi
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 9, 2005 11:21 am PT
Review:  A Review of Need for Speed Most Wanted
  
  The racing genre has leaped from just your typical afternoon-with-the-buds sort of game to a more 
 competitive, more engaging and not to mention, a prettier sight to look at compared with previous 
 racing games. With the release of Midnight Club, Juiced and the Gran Turismo series, the competition 
 has been quite tight in deciding which games win and which ones get totalled. Nearing the end of 
 the year, EA brought us to the edge of our seats at breakneck speeds with the release of Need for 
 Speed: Most Wanted. A more than welcome addition to the NFS series, Most Wanted picks up from its 
 both its predecessors, NFS Underground and NFS Underground 2, and what they did wrong in both previous 
 franchises of the game, I'm happy to say, was ammended in this one - and then some. 
  
  Gameplaywise, this game has quite a few interesting modes that definitely caught my attention. 
 Not to spoil any excitement for the plotline, Most Wanted deviates away from the 'Underground' 
 scene onto a more exposed situation: think in the lines of Hot Pursuit. Ring any bells? The original 
 idea in NFS Hot Pursuit was brought back to life. Squads of police cars swarm over you each one 
 wanting to pin you down, and rumor has it that if you go against it long enough, a police CHOPPER 
 might even take notice. The fun factor is, you can now get them out of commission permanently (or 
 at least for the duration of the pursuit) and in ways you always dreamed of. Underline World's 
 Scariest Police Chases, that's probably the closest description. You would need to get out of your 
 way to topple water towers, explode gas stations, or crash billboards to name a few just to get 
 them off your tail. This game introduces 'bounty' in career mode (also part of the reason it was 
 titled 'Most Wanted') . Bounty is how much your head's worth in police HQ. To be able to proceed 
 with the game's story mode, you have to accumulate a certain amount of bounty - which means, you 
 have to simply get wild and let the police do their jobs, which is try to catch you. The more bounty 
 on your head, the more police out to get you. 
  
  Most Wanted also introduces for the first time the 'Blacklist' system in which you challenge a 
 heirarchy of racers from the lowest rank 15 to number 1. Each racer in the food chain has a set 
 of requirements you have to meet: number of races to win, Milestones achieved, and bounty set. 
 A Milestone is an achievement you have to meet in a pursuit - like how much property damages you 
 accumulate or how fast your car must be in passing a camera. And there are a couple of other modes 
 like an arcade type of race mode wherein you have to cut through a timed course from checkpoint 
 to checkpoint and another type wherein the race is between how fast you can go throughout the course 
 and not who finishes first. 
  
  Most Wanted features amazing graphics, totally drool-and-drop-dead type from the cars to the environments. 
 I think NFSMW has one of the best visuals in a racing game at present - if not the best. The cars 
 look astoundingly real, that if you saw someone playing it, you would think he's watching a movie 
 (save for the gauges and other in-game markers) . And what's better is that players can now 'see' 
 actual damage being done. Player cars this time around don't get the special treatment. Well at 
 least not too much of it, as you don't really do 'damage' - just a visual representation. Most 
 Wanted didn't focus too much on the car's visual upgrading and made the selection quite simpler 
 - which is actually good on my side, because although it tore away some of the fun in designing 
 your car's look, on the lighter side, who would want to mess around with the look of the already 
 great lineup of cars? NFSMW made sure that you don't need to beef up a civic or pimp up a lancer 
 to look cool. Most Wanted now features some of the tastiest brands in car manufacturing available. 
 Imagine driving a pursuit in a Porsche or in a Maranello? Now you can experience it. The light 
 bloom, textures and the overall environmental detail really show off the game's visual splendor, 
 giving each turn a more realistic appeal. And wow, oncoming traffic never looked this good! Have 
 you ever seen a lamp post hurtle past you whenever struck by a speeding car? Now you will, just 
 be sure to duck. 
  
  Most Wanted's audio is quite immersive, giving you a sense of urgency in pursuits, pumping in adrenaline 
 in races and just chilling in city driving. I guess the people at EA really worked on the sound 
 this time around. Everytime I enter pursuit it feels like a movie chase from the strong orchestral 
 strings and orch hits to the overheard 'radio-ing in' from other police officers. You can actually 
 'hear' clues from where everyone is showing up and where you could go and hide your ride. Sound 
 effects is also a beauty. Ambient noise of the engine is tuned just right and the particle sounds 
 of ripping wood and falling water tanks are simply real. 
  
  What I feel has really improved the game a lot is the fact that you don't have to search the map 
 for the shops (plus there is only one shop this time around mind you!) , your garage or any other 
 remaining races. If you're in the explorer mood, you can always look at the map (the GPS is still 
 there) and drive around for the races, or you can just go to the menu (for lazier people like me) 
 and just pick out your race requirments from there (I know I felt like a raving idiot the last 
 time around looking for that performance shop just over the ridge, so this is a very welcome addition) . 
 Plus they made the performance tuning simpler which also has its advantages and disadvantages. 
 It's a minus if you really enjoy tweaking around in car tuning, then getting to test run it in 
 the track. A big plus if you didn't bother to look at the gauges and graphs and just wished you 
 knew what error you actually did to make your car suddenly loose torque. In any case, I think this 
 system kinda meets everyone halfway. 
  
  All in all, the package of plusses: to-die-for visuals, great sound, the opportunity to have the 
 pursuit of your life and getting to drive a Lamborghini (yes you read it right!) home to mommy, 
 I give Need for Speed Most Wanted a 8.5/10.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: eomeagher
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 9, 2005 11:05 am PT
Review:  Great game, great world. this is the best racing game i have ever played, because the cops remain 
 behind you even after the finish line, you got a heat level that makes the police go after you 
 because of your car description, is easiest to customize your car with body kits even at the beginning 
 of the game and everything else! the music is great, the cars are great, everithing is very good 
 and well made. even at low graphic quality and resulution, the game remains beautiful and well-made. 
 A must Buy!
  just a little problem: the online gameplay is chunky at low connection speeds. if you have a 56k 
 connection to be online, forget online playing this game, but the rest compensates this little 
 flaw. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: myintermail
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 8, 2005 11:15 pm PT
Review:  Need for speed most wanted is the racing game i had most fun of it. the game captures the essence 
 of life of a street racer in the career mode. It started off as an unknown street racer, along 
 the way helped by a mysterious girl called Mia, and you are off to build some good reputation and 
 then challenging Razor who was number 15 on the blacklist. unfortunately, he set you up and later 
 you are arrested by sergent cross....
  
  well this is the synopsis of the story of the career mode which makes it very interseting to play.... 
 now you have to defeat all the blacklist members to be face to face with razor, who is now number 
 one in the list. pretty interseting to engage people to play the game huh?
  
  well customization of the cars is not as well detailed as other need for speed series, but at least 
 it has some of the customization basics like adding hoods, spoilers, body kits and much more.
 
  
  the most addictive gameplay of the series is the police persuit. seriously, the game really protray 
 cops as the antagonist and they go to extreme measure to clamp down street racers. it started off 
 as a mild patrol car persuits, later turning into a chaotic roadblocks, helicopters and SUVs to 
 ram you just to get you busted..... not to mention the music that goes along with the persuit really 
 apt to the exciting atmosphere.
  
  if career mode is not the taste for you, try the challenge mode with series of missions to complete, 
 or race with friends in the lan or online mode.
  
  all in all the need for speed most wanted is the most wanted game in the series..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kronom
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 8, 2005 9:57 pm PT
Review:  Need for Speed Most Wanted is the best game in the series. Why? because they renovate all with 
 the formula of the old NFS games and the Underground games. The police persecutions are extremely 
 awesome and they make you feel like you are in a real persecution. The Cutscenes of the game are 
 with real people and they are very good made. Another thing are the missions in the game, and this 
 are very good too because they are very familiar from the Underground games. In conclusion, this 
 game is a needed buy if you are fan of NFS or not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slim2nun453
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 8, 2005 9:42 pm PT
Review:  I purchased this game with high hopes that EA would be able to bring back the original NFSU days... back 
 when the races were actually a challenge, and the game had some depth to it. I was let down by 
 NFSU2, and had mixed feelings about NFS: Most Wanted. I was worried that the focus would be left 
 on customization and not so much on the actual racing gameplay, as was the case in NFSU2. EA hit 
 the nail on the head! They brought back the intense sense of speed from the original NFSU, mixed 
 with a cool daytime/muscle car approach with cop chases from Hot Pursuit 2. The graphics are stepped 
 up to an amazing level, and seem to work well on most systems. The cop chases are the best part 
 of the game. If your a fan of the series, pick this one up. It is definetly the best! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mauromb
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 8, 2005 1:12 pm PT
Review:  Los graficos son revolucionarios, el sonido es excelente, la jugabilidad sigue siendo buenisima, 
 no te quedaras dormido como en esos juegos que tu coche parece que fuese a 20 kmph, tiene mucha 
 accion, el truco de la camara lenta es divertido, la inetrfas del juego esta super.... suerte, 
 se los recomiendo NFSMW NFSMW NFSMW NFSMW NFSMW NFSMW NFSMW NFSMW NFSMW NFSMW NFSMW NFSMW NFSMW 
 NFSMW NFSMW NFSMW NFSMW NFSMW NFSMW NFSMW NFSMW NFSMW NFSMW NFSMW NFSMW NFSMW NFSMW NFSMW NFSMW 
 NFSMW NFSMW NFSMW NFSMW NFSMW NFSMW NFSMW NFSMW NFSMW NFSMW NFSMW NFSMW NFSMW NFSMW NFSMW NFSMW 
 NFSMW NFSMW NFSMW NFSMW NFSMW 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pandamanloco
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 8, 2005 11:03 am PT
Review:  I love this game, I can be playing it for hours or days if i can, its amazing the way driving can 
 be take to. There is only some errors i think can be corrected, for example the fact that the opposite 
 cars are not animated: What I mean with this is that I collide with them and I am the one who suffers 
 the consequences, I think this has been the same old error of Need for Speed Series. Avoiding that 
 thing you can have fun as if you were racing on the real streets. A worthy game for buying 
::::::

::::::
UserName: taemee
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 8, 2005 12:30 am PT
Review:  everything is perfact specially the Ai part we we talk about cops and pursuits
  but there is one thing that i want to mention that it looks that there is no relatioship betwean 
 ur "career" and challenge series. i thinkwinning challenge series shud raise the cash or bounty. 
 secendly in underground 2 the hlly area of the city was great but in MW that part is almost missing. 
 moreover if u ea guys were gonna put some country club stuff into this enviorenment then i think 
 it wud be cool if a jungl part can be seen somewhere and it cud help in pursuites specially wen 
 chopper is envolved.
  anyway critics never end and right now i m playing this game and enjoying i m at number 8 now started 
 few days back and i want to finish it without cheats first. and i hope the ending wil be a great 
 sensation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 7thmast
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 7, 2005 2:37 pm PT
Review:  I was in the front entrance of an EB game in Canada's capital Ottawa. The first thing i saw as 
 the NFSMW on xbox, I loved it so much that I spent playing the game for an hours or so, I was in 
 love. The graphics are extraordinarie, sound, best to be heard in 5.0 or more, game play i at its 
 best, im playing like crazy on this game. You guys wont be disappointed about NFSMW, and if your 
 lucky enough to get the black edition. This is for all ages and I give this beauty a 10. Bravo 
 EA. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TicoNismo
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 7, 2005 10:32 am PT
Review:  Amazing graphics, almost all the glitches from the last two NFSU corrected. But I'm disconfort 
 with this game if it is Street racing why does there are "super cars" such as Carrera GT an Lamborgini 
 Gallardo and not one of the most important Import cars fabricator Nissan. Where is the LEGEND the 
 Nissan Skyline GT-R34 the one that can easily kick an M3 and a SLK together. This is no a GT game 
 for that I can buy Gran Turismo 4 this is an STREET RACING GAME. Also I saw there is a glitch in 
 the RX-8 speed when I was driving it (stock) it only reaches 112 mph an it is a car that stock 
 can get a higher top speed even with the speed limiter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cardana
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 6, 2005 5:23 pm PT
Review:  It's incredible how a driving simulator could catch my interest the way Need For Speed Most Wanted 
 did... everything's perfect from one end to the other... it by far one of the most beautifully 
 designed games ever done.. the lighting effects are just perfect, the cars are as perfect as one 
 can imagine them, and the rest... well the rest i's simply amazing... INCREDIBLE game-play... you 
 feel like the car is going to burst out of the screen any moment as the speed effects are incredibly 
 amazing... you've never had an experience like this one... probably the best game launched this 
 year... this game is well worth a perfect 10! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amansandhu
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 6, 2005 1:43 pm PT
Review:  I'm currently at 6th rank in the black list so I can say that I know what this game is all about. 
 It has nothing which could make me complain about it's features or anything else. In fact this 
 is the best & most fulfilling title in the NFS series ever. The graphics are great, the sound is 
 excellent & the whole concept of getting the cops back in a fast & furious like game play is just 
 perfect. EA has done a great job & I congratulate them for this great game. If I had to add a few 
 things in the game to make it score full 10 they would be REPLAYS, NIGHT TIME & FEW MORE CARS. Don't 
 believe anyone who says this game isn't good enough cause seriously if this game isn't fun to play 
 then they need a medical check up immediately. I'm having so much fun playing it that I don't even 
 miss the replays. Buy it & enjoy it, it's absolutely great. This game will definitely satisfy your 
 NEED FOR SPEED!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobdavis147
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 5, 2005 12:50 pm PT
Review:  If you're a fan of the NFS series, especially the Underground editions, you'll likely enjoy this 
 game. It adds on where the Underground games left off... cops. 
  
  But, it's not perfect. The cops will come after you everytime they see you. You can be doing 35mph 
 on a street that is 35mph. They'll come after you. You can have the car parked in a parking lot, 
 and if one drives by and sees your car, it will come after you. 
  
  There's also the abilities of the cop cars... not even close to realistic. In real life, cop cars 
 are rather slow and they are extremely heavy, which makes them to be less than ideal at handling. 
 Most standard issue cop cars accelerate at a slightly better pace than the garden variety Honda 
 Civic (low 8 second 0-60mph) , and because the light bar on top greatly increases drag, they top 
 out at around 120-130mph. 
  
  That's in real life. 
  
  In the game they can out accelerate any car in the game, they can out handle any car in the game, 
 and if you see one stopped, they can spin 360 degrees without moving. 
  
  Then there's the NP cars. They are usually fairly closely matched to the car you are driving in 
 terms of performance. But the annoying thing about them is the "catch-up" system in the game's 
 races. 
  
  When you get a head of the computer controlled cars, they will speed up past the limits of the 
 car to make up ground to keep it a close race. Overall, it doesn't add challenge to the game, its 
 just annoying.
  
  The ability to modify the car is still there, but there is less to do than in the Underground games.
 
  
  The choice of surfaces to paint is down to body and wheels, there is no neon (thank god) and no 
 audio/video system upgrades.
  
  On the visual side, there is still the ugly body kits, the ridiculous looking erector set spoilers, 
 the replacement hood and wheels, roof scoop, vinyl, and stickers, and the window tint.
  
  On the performance side, it is very similar to NFS: U2 in that you choose packages that you want 
 to upgrade. 
  
  There are lots of cars that you can buy, and you can also win cars in the blacklist races. But 
 you can also lose your car and get it impounded if you are busted by the cops too many times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lx585x
Rating: 5.9
Date: Dec 5, 2005 10:33 am PT
Review:  The game is very good but it could be better. Like the BMW car is only in carrer mode and in quick 
 race you can't tune the car in my cars mode. And the free roam is only in carrer mode. You can't 
 play like in NFS underground 2. But the game is not that bad only the sound could be better and 
 they could made more add ons for the cars. Also it is too easy and you finish it in a very short 
 time it took me just 2 days too finish carrer mode and 1 day for the rap sheet. The game is not 
 good and it isn't interesting at all. I expected something better than this. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: yab_007
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 5, 2005 10:26 am PT
Review:  Need for speed most wanted is among the best racing game that I have ever seen on PC. The graphics 
 of the game is outstanding. There should be of course a good video card. An ATI Radeon 9550 will 
 suffice to feel the sensation in the game. I have been playing the game ever since I got it and 
 I must say that I cant really stop playing it. The game is far better than any previous 
 need for speed series. In fact I am a fan of need for speed and I have all the collection of need 
 for speed but this one is extremely cool. Unlike the two underground versions, the most wanted 
 series has some major changes The cinematic also has changed its style, its no more 2d images 
 or 3d animations, its human beings themselves placed in a 2d background. The merging of real people 
 and background images make the cinematic just perfect. The shading and smoke effect and motion 
 blur is even more intense than any previous series. Likewise the game-play has changed quite a 
 bit. The new features such as the speed breaker is really cool and it allows enough time to perform 
 delicate maneuvers. Depending on the tastes, I feel that need for speed underground is a recommended 
 game for all ages looking for intense racing sensation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gto_dreamin
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 5, 2005 9:00 am PT
Review:  Being a fan of the whole need for speed series ( believe it or not i still have the original need 
 for speed for playstation) i figured hey im going to get this one too. One word, amazing. I dint 
 think it could get any better but boy was i wrong. Everything about this game is good. I also happen 
 to enjoy running from those cops, even if it gets harder and harder to elude them. Overall this 
 game is sweet, if you like racing games or just like the import/street tuned car scene this is 
 the game for you, so live it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robpoyer
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 5, 2005 6:12 am PT
Review:  Review for the people with a short attention span - if you liked the other NFS games, go and get 
 this game NOW! You will not be disappointed.
  
  For everyone - I have been playing the NFS series since the hot pursuit days and until now, the 
 high stakes game had always been my favorite. At the time, I thought the graphics were unbelievable, 
 who would have thought we'd be where we are today?!
  
  This game has all the best aspects of the previous NFS games like:
  - Undergrounds' drag racing
 
  - Free city roaming with GPS to the next event
  - Police chases
  - Pink slip racing
  - Completely customizable cars
  
  Yet now, it adds the benefit of superb quality graphics and:
 
  - Radar gun speed racing
  - Toll booth races
  - Easier (to me anyway, not being a car modder myself) to configure car upgrades
  - Increasing 
 level of police involvment (starting at city cops up to helicopters and tire killing strips)
  - Actual video segments between races (including the beautiful woman who happens to be your buddy 
 in the game)
  
  I really can't say enough about the game, the graphics and combined gameplay make this the best 
 game I've ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cool-c
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 5, 2005 2:26 am PT
Review:  This game is certainly the best game in the nfs series, after nfs porsche of course, combining 
 the police chases from the Hot Pursuit games with the tuning mode found in the Underground series. 
 
  
  I have to say i enjoy the police chaces the most. Regarding the races I prefer sprints and speedtraps, 
 because i don't like spinning around on a circuit. But the most frusttrating race mode has to be 
 the drag, not because the computer oponents are very good at shifting speeds or anything like that, 
 but simply because there is TOO MUCH DAMN TRAFIC!
  
  I had to repeat one race at least 50 times, simply because a van or acar crossed my path at the 
 worst possible moment
  I mean what racer with any sense of self preservation races in traffic like that? The problem is 
 not in the races you can choose to play, I mean if you have to complete 7 out of 10 races tochallenge 
 a rival, no problem. The problem is when the drag race is compulsory as part of the races needed 
 to defeat your rival? Take rival 4 for example, I dont remeber his name, the guy with the green 
 viper.
  
  Another issue is the fact that the computer oponnents, later in the game are SUPERHUMAN. They cath 
 up instantly, ike they have the car fron Jeepers Creepers or something, they don't need to break 
 around corners and so on. he only weakness they posess, sometimes, is that hey break too much whwn 
 it's incoming raffic. Thank god for that.
  The police chaces are great, the one thing i ddn't like is that i got busted after hitting a pursuit 
 breaker, you get in that cinematic sequence and your car keeps going without any input from you 
 and it drove itself right in a spike strip.
  
  In conclusion, a great game with some frustrating moments, but overall well worth your time.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cqdemal
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 3, 2007 11:12 pm PT
Review:  Everything else, however, is less than perfect.
  
  Take the story, for example. Yes, EA Canada is still trying - harder than ever, I might add - to 
 create a storyline for a racing game. While the premise works, the presentation is... less than 
 satisfying. The story is presented through full-motion video cutscenes in which real 'actors' perform 
 in front of green screens a la Sky Captain and the World of Tomorrow . The problem is that these 
 actors can't act, and that the characters are still mired in silly oh-I'm-so-cool traits. While 
 Josie Maran does a slightly better job than Underground 2's Brooke Burke, she still suffers from 
 bad characterization and wardrobe malfunction.
  
  She looks gorgeous though. There's no denying that. And the guy who plays Razor is rather funny-looking 
 for a supposedly tough guy.
  
  The racing itself remains pretty much similar to recent NFS titles. The only difference is the 
 magnitude of the AI's cheating and the difficulty level. Surprisingly, Most Wanted's racing AI 
 is one of the worst I have ever seen. No, I haven't seen AI drivers trying to go through a building, 
 but when the whole racing aspect of the game relies on the 'catch-up' rubberband effect to challenge 
 the player, you know you have a problem. Even weirder is the fact that the game's more important 
 races (the Blacklist races, in which you challenge the top 15 street racers of the city in order 
 to get your BMW M3 GTR back) turn out to be significantly easier than the normal races, especially 
 when you're up in the top five. The bottom line here is that you should expect to hurl a lot of 
 rude words towards the AI as they bounce back from 750m behind you to 300m ahead of you in less 
 than 10 seconds.
  
  The cars are very fun to drive, however. The 32 cars available in the game drive differently enough 
 for you to note the difference. The physics engine is pretty poor by today's standards, but it 
 works all right. All in all, the racing portion of Most Wanted is fun most of the time, but it's 
 not an improvement over the previous games at all.
  
  In a rather perplexing move, EA Canada dumbed down the car modding system. I can only be thankful 
 for the fact that the modding features didn't really contribute that much to the Underground titles 
 anyway, and even less so in Most Wanted. The usual performance upgrades aside, the greatly-reduced 
 visual modification options can help you lose the heat. With the removal of Underground's style 
 system, you're no longer forced to pimp your car to the max, meaning less ugly rides.
  
  Fortunately, one feature saves Most Wanted from sinking below Underground 2: cops. The high-speed 
 chases here are unbelievably entertaining, even more so than the havoc you so gleefully wreaked 
 in the GTA games. The heat system is pretty similar to the one in Rockstar's hit trilogy. Five 
 levels of heat determine the intensity of the chases. The first two levels are extremely easy (almost 
 too easy, in fact) . Things really pick up from there, when you have 15, 20, and 25 cop cars chasing 
 you around in levels 3, 4, and 5 respectively. The cops also employ 'rhino squads' (SUV battering 
 rams) , roadblocks, spike strips, and helicopters (which can swoop down to hit you!) . You also occasionally 
 get to face off with the other bad guy of the game: Cross. It's a little disappointing that there's 
 hardly any difference between him and other cops (he drives a Lotus Elise, other cops go for Corvette 
 C6s) , but it's a nice little addition that helps immerse players into an otherwise terrible story.
 
  
  Be prepared to hurl more rude words at the cops, as they aren't dumb brick walls on wheels. They 
 know how to box you in, call for roadblocks, evade obstacles, and generally messing you up. Your 
 advantage comes in the form of the Speedbreaker and the Pursuit Breakers. The former is your good 
 ol' Bullet Time (refilled by fast driving, just like the Nitrous) , and the latter are parts of 
 the environment you can use to send the cops back to their garage. Both of these features are well-implemented 
 and give much-needed assistance when trying to outwit 25 cop Corvettes.
  
  Oh, and the cops talk. The radio chatter is mindblowingly brilliant (especially when Cross is on 
 your tail) and the chase music (orchestral score, yay!) is its perfect companion. Combine those 
 with great visuals and you get one fantastic looking title. After a few cop encounters, you'll 
 know how Michael Bay fell in love with car crashes in slowmotion.
  
  The single big disappointment is the lack of cops in the multiplayer modes. Thankfully, the single 
 player game is engaging enough to make Most Wanted one of the better NFS titles. If you like high-speed 
 chases and/or nice cars, make sure you get this one fast.
  
  Take note, Rockstar. This is how you do cop chases. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maromero
Rating: 7.4
Date: Dec 4, 2005 6:38 pm PT
Review:  People of EA what you think??
  
  I miss the replay mode like a NFS-HS (the best replay mode) ..
  
  I dont understanding how make 
 a game without a replay.. 
  
  Nice car, nice rides, nice paint, nice graphics, cool speedbraker....
  but where is the replay 
 mode for look my fantastic rides???
  
  And How will be the next game?.. I'll like a NFS-HS2.. COOL.. plus tuning mod, pursuit, 
  
 
  make something fantastic, where drive a ferrari, jaguar, mercedes, lamborghini, corvette, in addition 
 to being able tuning car, like a nissan, toyota, etc..
  
  Remember the damage in NFS-HS, why dont able in the next game? 
  That would be brilliant! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marcio_castro
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 4, 2005 1:37 pm PT
Review:  Need for Speed Most Wanted unify customizing cars from NFS Underground and cop chases from NFS 
 Hot Pursuit. And cut scenes to explain a history game now is a movie, not a HQ (like NFS Underground 
 2) .
  Game play was improved with punctuation to up in blacklist. In NFS Underground 2, you had to win 
 all races at level to gain more points/money and to continue playing. Now you can choose what 
 races to run.
  You must escape from cops, destroy some places (gas station, stadium, etc) , cross police blocks 
 to gain more points and improve your fame as most wanted driver. 
  Soundtrack prints a good rhythm to game and when you confront the cops, you certainly will stay 
 hallucinated with police pickups crashing on your car at 160 miles/hour, trying stop you
  Cop chases give to game innovation at some points, something that NFS Underground 2 hadnt (many 
 parts are much similar) . Each pursuit is different and if you take a long time to escape from cops, 
 they become more aggressive.
  I dont understand why race replay feature was removed from this gameIf you do a amazing race, 
 you cant review your maneuvers.
  You will need a powerful graphics card to show all details, textures and illumination, and they 
 are incredible. My GeForce 6600 suffers a little to do this  sometimes I have a little lag on 
 game.
  The game is very good and fun. And we have rain again: always rains ....
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wolferyn
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 4, 2005 12:08 pm PT
Review:  A VEY good game for those CARD MANIACS out there!! A MUST PLAY!!! 
  
  Tons of new cars, the same old things like getting chased by cops up to level 5 and best still... 
 a SPECIAL LEVEL AFTER beating RAZOR~!! XD
  
  Ahahahah... no, no spoiler will be given. You go figure it out mate~ ;P 
  
  Hmmm... very WELL 
 DONE and EXTREMELY PERFECT graphics and gameplay. Well designed and planned... except for some 
 pixelated car logo's... know what i mean? Search for a picelated car! LOL!!
  
  Nice storyline and very fun, suspensing and attractive things to catch the eye of ANY car lover 
 and gamer!!
  
  My best for this~! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poopfacemanboy
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 4, 2005 11:07 am PT
Review:  I really think this is one of the best racing games i have played. It takes evrey good thing from 
 all the other need for spped games and put it into one. First of all the 34 cars in the game like 
 spectaclur and are beautifully done. The audio sounds like a real car when u turn the volume up. 
 One of the best things though are having police and the abillity TO FREE RUN! Yes that sright free 
 run drive around and get chased by cops all day. The carrer is awsome and u can soop up ur car 
 at the auto store with many items to choose froM! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: timmmmm
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 4, 2005 11:01 am PT
Review:  The game start with cool racing movie.
  Afterwards u can chose what mode to play.
  You can chose career, single race or challange.
  career mode the same as in underground 2 but 
 u dont have to drive to every
  event by your self u can just lunch it from your garage.
  The single race mode its just a single race its good to try fast car or just play with friends.
 
  The challange mode gives u challnges like pursuit over 10 minits with the cops and escape or some 
 hard race.
  The new good things in the game is that the nitro refilled and u can do a slow motion in hard situations 
 but the main change is the cops, the pursuit is fun and u can do lot of things to escape from them 
 and its just so fun.
  But the new upgrade system is uncomfortable particularly the visual.
  The game almost perfect its rocks in the all the aspects. 
  The game defenitly the best in series 
 and the most fun.
  Most wanted have an amazing graphics.
  Every one should at least try it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rjvandiermen
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 4, 2005 5:38 am PT
Review:  Hi this is my first review ever.
  
  First gameplay:
  The Gameplay is really awesome made much more better then NFSU1 & 2.
  You can see a good Radar 
 in de left corner and even on the road you can see bords who are telling wich direction the road 
 go's and sometimes it is pretty usefull.
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics are much more better then NFSU1 & 2 much sharper and more detail in cars etc.
  What 
 really kept me look was the surrounding area. It looks really nice.
  
  Sound:
  Sound is very good.
  It is almost like in real life.
  
  I can tell you this if you buy the 
 game you will not get Disappointed.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: waverider113
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 3, 2005 11:33 pm PT
Review:  When I first saw the video for NFS: MW at E3, I coughed up all the soda in my mouth. Stunning. 
 But would it be fun? I was EXTREMELY sceptical of the new yellowish hue of the graphics and also 
 wondered if leaving the night streets for a more sprawling and brighter environment would be lame. 
 It wasn't.
  
  NFSMW takes NFS Underground and multiplies it many times. It still has the same great feel and 
 perfect sense of speed and control, while it also contains the endless customization adjusters 
 of the Underground series (though with slightly fewer upgrades) . Though some might miss the 100% 
 adjusting of your car's look and feel, it makes things much more simple and accessible.
  
  Now most of the gameplay is pretty similar to the Underground games. You've got your basic races: 
 Drag, Circuit, Sprint, and lap knockout, but MW also adds the Speedtrap and Tollbooth race modes. 
 Speedtrap is a race where your speed is clocked in at certain points during a race and is tallyed 
 up to determine the winner. Tollbooth races are a basic time trial from point A to point B to point 
 C etc. These are actually extremely fun races and are better than those they repleace (The ever 
 irritating Drift races and the moderately fun Street X) .
  
  Of course, the biggest new addition to the game is the cop chases, which turn out to be some of 
 the most fun, most epic, must unbelievably entertaining things I have ever experienced in a videogame. 
 From the pure ecstasy of smahing cop cars with giant donuts to the crazy smashing through roadblocks 
 and spikestrips, its all a wild trip. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dino123456
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 3, 2005 4:40 pm PT
Review:  best racing game ever ..... EA put everything possible in the game to make it awsome but there 
 were some errors and things i would of liked more in ..... i had several bugs in the game when i 
 got it .... but other than that its a great game 9.5/10 4 me .... there are 2 versions i assume..... 
 the black and regular.... their both the same except in the black version u get more goodies..... the 
 gameplay is real... same with the car and the world .... good lighting effects and reflections.... 
 i played it for the PC and Xbox 360 like it better on the 360.. the cop chases are good... and 
 last but not least.. i like the different roads their not the same as in underground 1 and 2 like 
 just regular ally's with stores and stuff its all different here... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ariel_king
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 3, 2005 8:55 am PT
Review:  I played this game and I was really impresed about this game.
  
  Gameplay: In the beginning, you get this old car and then you go and kick some but on the road. 
 You have tons of upgrades for your cars and the areas are unbelivible.
  
  Graphics: In the CD version, you get the same amazing grahpics as the previous title. On the other 
 hand, on the DVD version it is unbelivible. The cars look almost the same as the real ones and 
 the areas are incredible.
  
  Sound: The sound of the cars are very reallistic. Besides that there is no sound in this game.
 
  
  Value: You can play for hours and hours trying to be the best on the road and get to your car the 
 best upgrades in the game. If there was an online feature then this game is going to be the best 
 racing game ever.
  
  Reviewer's tilt: Overall this game is an awsome improval to the "Need for speed" series and you 
 should definitely go and try this one out. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ariel_stoltz
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 3, 2005 8:52 am PT
Review:  I played this game and I was really impresed about this game.
  
  Gameplay: In the beginning, you get this old car and then you go and kick some but on the road. 
 You have tons of upgrades for your cars and the areas are unbelivible.
  
  Graphics: In the CD version, you get the same amazing grahpics as the previous title. On the other 
 hand, on the DVD version it is unbelivible. The cars look almost the same as the real ones and 
 the areas are incredible.
  
  Sound: The sound of the cars are very reallistic. Besides that there is no sound in this game.
 
  
  Value: You can play for hours and hours trying to be the best on the road and get to your car the 
 best upgrades in the game. If there was an online feature then this game is going to be the best 
 racing game ever.
  
  Reviewer's tilt: Overall this game is an awsome improval to the "Need for speed" series and you 
 should definitely go and try this one out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: knowledgewizard
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 2, 2005 8:39 pm PT
Review:  Most people would have thought this game would probably suffer the fate of, "Been there, done that". 
 Correction. This game is probably the perfect mix a racing game could have. In fact, it probably 
 is the best racing game to date with its mix of the tuner underground with high speed chases with 
 your friendly neighbourhood cops. 
  
  One major difference most people would have realised is that night has become day .. no more night 
 (I guess most people would have gotten bored of darkness and strips of neon lights) . But I daresay 
 it was a good change. Art and design in the game is perfect; from the graffiti like words of each 
 Blacklist rival's names to the HDRLed sun. Graphics have been improved tremendously as you get 
 to see some real lighting with accurate reflections on the cars and buildings, specularity of the 
 road and cars, tree shadows that make the game oh so real and beautiful and of course that glaring 
 sun (yeah it really is that beautiful) .
  
  Moving on to gameplay .. if you've played Hot Pursuit and Underground ... gameplay would seem rather 
 familiar but in Most Wanted it feels absolutely brand new. Cops chase you relentlessly til you 
 can successfully stop them or evade them. These chases are simply great fun. Of course what's Need 
 For Speed if there's no customisation? You can still do all your tuner stuff in Most Wanted with 
 plenty of new stuff to customize with. Races are more or less like previous games of the series 
 (mind you Drift and StreetX are gone) but you still have the your all time favourite circuit races, 
 sprints and new game modes such as tollbooth and speedtrap which prove be able to breathe new life 
 into the game. And of coourse, a final showdown with the Blacklist Rivals. One new feature in the 
 game called Speedbreaker is real handy and its damn cool; Sharp turns can be easily taken with 
 this as everything slows down to allow more control (think of it as ala F. E. A. R.'s Slowmo) . There 
 are several other features which I haven't mentioned but I think I wouldn't want to spoil too much 
 of the game for you.
  
  Sound in this game is just fantastic, from the roaring of the car engines to the screeching of 
 burned out tyres. There has also been the addition of FMVs (Full Motion Videos) unlike Underground 
 2's static comic strip of Brooke Burke ... these provide comical relief and a break from the game's 
 monotony.
  
  All in all the game has had a stylistic touch in graphics and a revamp of a favourite classic in 
 underground flavour. It definitely is worth playing even if racing isn't your forte. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: exclusiveburner
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 2, 2005 5:07 pm PT
Review:  One of the best arcade type racing games around. 
  
  Pro's
  - Cars in this game are pretty good and they're should of been a few more but overall its on the 
 plus side
  - Graphics arent revolutionarry but they're better then most games in its class
  - Driving is alot of fun in this game, Compared to NFSU2 or Midnight Club 3 it definetly shows 
 up its predecessors
  - Customization is always one of the better parts of this game because everyone likes they're own 
 creativeness and playing against others online to show off
  - Cops add a great deal of fun and gets pretty challenging
  - New game mode's such as Speedtrap 
 are also new and fun, along with destructable environments to shake the cops
  
  Con's
  - Customization in NFSU2 seemed to be a bit better, adding different bumpers, oppose to this where 
 you just select a body kit, also the visual customization isnt as good for sum reason also... isnt 
 a great deal but I loved my fully customized cars in its predecessor
  - Single player is pretty bland how they're arent any street racers to flash your lights off to, 
 its more pick and play type game which limits knowledge of the map because the only time your not 
 racing or driving is when your going to buy a new car or trying to get to a Shop to customize
 
  - Traffic cars aren't very different i think they'res 10 different cars/trucks on the road that 
 get very repetitive
  - Graphical slowdowns, I dont know why i get these slow downs and skippy framerate at times but 
 it is frustrating, I can play games like FEAR on high along with Quake 4 so its not my computer 
 i assure that
  
  Overall this game is great and is why I'm giving it a 8.4 (Which Is a Very Good Score) They're was 
 room for improvement however that deducted a few points, such as customization where as it was 
 better in NFSU2, but regardless new feature were added and make this one of the better racing games 
 out this year, right up there with Forza as far as fun goes 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fatc4t
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 2, 2005 6:39 am PT
Review:  The last couple of Need for speed games, in my opinion, has just been fast, easy releases to make 
 som extra money. But this time EA-games really put their heart in it and made a racing game worth 
 playing for a very long time.
  
  Need for speed Most wanted gives you everything you want and a little bit more. Great police chases, 
 total freedom when it comes to pimpin' your ride and a good story/gameplay which makes you wanna 
 go on earning money, getting new cars, modify them and put new stuff in them.
  
  Career mode is basicly a blacklist which you go through, beating up all the guys and chicks on 
 the list to make you the most wanted. In career mode you need to fullfill different objectives: 
 Bounty, milestone and races. Races and milestones you pick from a menu but anytime doing those 
 races or milestones you can get interrupted by cops. Then the game changes to extremely cool police 
 chases which over time gets harder and harder. While having the cops on your arse you can take 
 the opportunity to complete your needed bounty level or even milestones as "ramming 12 cop cars" 
 or "damage property for 150.000$" and so on.
  Even if you started a regular race and get the cops after you, you wont complete it until the cops 
 are off your ass.. that however can be really frustrating but still a kind of cool thing. 
  Between the races you can just cruise through the city, check some stores out or even take your 
 car to the limits on the highway. If you dont want to do career there are like 60 races you can 
 go through in the Challange series and a multiplayer option aswell.
  
  Anyway, I'm gonna divide this review into two sections "good" and "anus".
  
  Good: *graphics, 
 *sound/music, *customize car option,* "bullet-time", *the difficulty and *the intense police chases.
 
  
  Anus: *the menu! takes forever to find what you want in the shop.. very unlogical. *The fact that 
 you slow down while near a cop car will make you frustrated. *Some bugs like getting stuck or hitting 
 invisible objects.
  
  Overall: Great game. Havn't had this much fun with a car game since the first of the NFS games. 
 And even if you're not that into car games you will enjoy this one anyway.. trust me on that one 
 :)
  
  (my english is bad 'couse I'm swedish.. I'm not (that) stupid ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leadfoot2501
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 2, 2005 1:23 am PT
Review:  At the age of 18, I can now look back ten years from this point and vividly remember my first race 
 on Need For Speed, the game that started the single best series of arcade racing games ever. Although 
 not much changed from NFS 1 to NFS2 or NFS2SE, the introduction of Police chases in NFS3: Hot Pursuit 
 put a breath of life back into the series. NFS4: High Stakes introduced racing for pink slips. 
 NFS: Porsche unleased was good, but what the hell, only Porsches. NFS5: Hot Pursuit 2 was simply 
 more of the same with updated graphics. NFS: Underground tapped into the exploding obsession with 
 import tuner street racing as seen by millions of teenage boys in The Fast and the Furious. In 
 NFS: Underground 2, EA finally took the hint from the Midnight Club series to allow racers to explore 
 their environment and race literally anywhere, instead of being constricted to the preset, log 
 flume raceway. NFS: Most Wanted is simply the culmination of all of these games, integrating their 
 best strengths into a truely unique racing experience.
  
  To start out, what caught my eye first about NFSMW was the car featured in the trailer, the M3GTR. 
 This totally blew me away. An exotic in a street racing game, no way!! The game features the full 
 automotive spectrum, imports to exotics. And for the first time the exotics are modifiable too 
 both visually and performance-wise. The gameplay is simply great. There are inventive new race 
 types including: Speedtrap and Tollboth Runs. Perhaps the best best part of the game, besides the 
 graphics, is the plot. Rather than just a bunch of comicbook cut scenes like in NFSU2 that really 
 dont have any effect on the game, this one features movies, text messages, and voice mails that 
 intrecately tie the characters together in an increasingly complex plot. You have to earn a reputation 
 for being a bad@ss in order to race the people on the 5-0's 'Black List.' The #1 on that list took 
 your car from you after racing for pink slips with you, but he cheated. So its your job to get 
 your car back and become #1.
  
  Besides all that, the racing experience is amazing. The graphics, sounds, and AI are all amazing. 
 This game definitely lives up to the Need For Speed name, more perhaps than most in the series. 
 Well done EA!!! BTW, play it on the PC if you want to experience Most Wanted at its best.
  
  My Rig:
  A64 3500
  Asus A8N SLI Delux
  2 GB Corsair DDR400
  BFG 6800 Ultra 512
  80GB 
 WD EIDE
  250GB Hitachi SATA
  Audigy 2 ZS
  
  Max Playable settings with 4xAA , 16xAF, and all ingame settings maxed
  
  1024x768
  
  Without 
 AA and AF
  
  1280x1024 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madgino
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 2, 2005 12:45 am PT
Review:  I was expecting some real improvements, but I've got a game with the same feeling, nice to play 
 but nothing to amaze me.
  
  They kept the previous games good points and this is well. The same excellent graphics, nice sound, 
 good looking cars and what's most important the fabulous sensation of speed when you're racing 
 with other 3 guys followed by other 5-6 police cars. This is why I keep playing new releases of 
 this game.
  
  What I don't like: they added a story at the beginning (which was quite good) but they abandoned 
 it after first 15 min. I know it's a racing game but a reach story is missing.
  
  The free roam mode is stupid, for me it's just a waste of time that keeps me out of racing. I have 
 to hit game menu 5-6 times for starting each race which is frustrating.
  
  I'm not convinced about the bounty thing but maybe this is personal opinion. Anyway losing time 
 distroying the town and hitting police cars just for gaining points for passing to the next level 
 it doesn't make me to have fun.
  
  The menu and the game concepts are not very intuitive, I have to play for 30 min until I was able 
 to upgrade my car, the car improvements and differences are not always clear.
  
  As a conclusion, the game is good but there's a long way till perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neeraj_sehgal20
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 1, 2005 7:17 pm PT
Review:  EA has lived upto the reputation of NFS underground this is game is absolutely breathtaking i have 
 played nfs hot pursuit, hot pursuit 2, underground , underground 2 but underground 2 wasn't at all 
 my liking as it was too easy in terms of nfs underground i liked most wanted coz it had the same 
 thrill same passion to win as what i experienced while i was playing nfs underground
  hats off to EA people 
  
  now what i am writing is crap from here on so as to mkae these gamespot 
 people happy i. e writing a text review of 100 words muh hhahhahahahahaha
  kjkdj kjkdjsalgj kkdsajgk jksadjg klksdja lksadjg laksdjg lksdjg lksadgj lksadjg
  well how many 
 of u guys r wrestling freak temme seriously 
  
  how many of u cared for the death of eddie gurrero
  
  hew was a good wrestler what if he cheated 
 sometimes but was a real wrestler by heart 
  
  well my personal ideal is the undertaker and i know he will return and kick ass of randy orton 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rewsh
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 1, 2005 5:08 pm PT
Review:  This game pretty much gets everything right. The cop chases are excilerating and its a cool feeling 
 when you escape. if only played it for a little bit but im confident enuf that this is the greates 
 tuner out there. Graphics are amazing. With games like this I wonder why there already coming out 
 with new systems. The customisation is even better than Underground 2 . Its crazy the sense of 
 speed you get. The sound has everything youd want in a racing game. Its got the classic woosh you 
 get as you pass objects and engines sound great. I cant get enough of this game. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: muldi_2
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 1, 2005 4:45 pm PT
Review:  This game rules. I have spent upwards of about 50 hours playng this game and there is noting i 
 regret about buying it. The game looks great, the mustang gt sounds awesome and the police chases 
 have produced the single greatest cinematic moments in any game i have played, excluding HL2.
 
  On the negative side, the rhino units are a right pain in the bumper, and getting caught after 
 1/2 and hour of being chased is insanely frustrating.
  The game also runs really well on a low - mid range system. I'm running a 1.8Ghz with a 9600 and 
 512 ram and the only thing i cant have on max is the AA and AF.
  
  BUY THIS GAME, but dont forget to get the black edition version, the camaro rocks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: holymsophy
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 1, 2005 4:23 pm PT
Review:  According to me, this is the best racer yet out in the market; the different scenarios (no not 
 the cut scenes) , cars ... and lest I forget, the bad guys, the one and only, ladies and gentlemen 
 THE COPS ARE BACK IN DA BUILDING!
  
  Starting off may not be that easy, but once the controls are learned, it's much more like easy 
 cruise control to me.
  
  Actually, what just dragged me off my sit and into the game was the way the controls feel when 
 you use the xbox 360 game pad ... ooooooh!
  
  It's so cool, you need to go grab yours now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JeffR67
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 1, 2005 11:16 am PT
Review:  This is by far the best overall racing game I've ever played. The gameplay is great, the ride customization 
 is outstanding! I like how you can customize your entire ride and upgrade all the time with different 
 things. The AI as far as the cops go is really good too, they stay on you for a while and once 
 you get the FBI cars to chase you, it's quite hard to get away. The storyline is also a good addition 
 to the game, trying to move yourself up the blacklist one by one to finally face Razor again and 
 be the top blacklisted racer. Hard game to put down! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bubba_83835
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 1, 2005 2:28 am PT
Review:  There seems to be some minor glitches, this hasnt stopped me from making it to 25% of the game 
 though! I think the one thing I cant stand is how the car has an automatic brake. If you are at 
 a slow speed and release the gas, the brakes apply! AAHHHHHH. This can make for difficult getaways 
 from the cops, who are very persistent by the way. I only wish the sound of the vehicles were, 
 more detailed. Aside from my few gripes this is an excellent game, I would definitely recommend 
 this to anyone who enjoys a driving game. The cops are relentless, which is what makes this game 
 a notch above the rest I think. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ken2_basic
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 1, 2005 1:39 am PT
Review:  First off all It started when i played the demo when i played the demo i yust knew i had to get 
 the real One en i know the real one wouldnt dissapoint me When i had the game i had to keep playing 
 i mean it whas really good Only there is no dark in the game A bummer but it doesnt matter still 
 it is real good Nice graphics evereyting what you can wish in a Racing game The special effects 
 The flashy graphics the police on your back A Real adventure the speedbreaker is cool 2 If you 
 wonna Dodge roadblocks En All that what is standing in your way . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Danaan
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 30, 2005 11:20 pm PT
Review:  I loved NFSU2. It was great. The tuning, the handling of the cars, everything. I was really excited 
 that they were making this new one. Cops? yeah sure. I thought it'd be cool. I loved playing in 
 the beginning. But BOUNTY? I have to stop racing, which is why I bought the game [the main purpose] 
 and I have to keep destroying property while police hound me. I can't even progress when I want 
 to. This was a great idea, but it hinders the fun factor that I've come to love about NFS. Another 
 minor complaint is that they took out the dyno run and the tuning is less personal.
  
  So to summarize:
  Great racing
  Terrible BOUNTY system
  Hard to progress through storyline 
 because of BOUNTY
  No adjustable difficulty for story, so cops are always smart in later parts of the game, when you 
 can't just ditch them but have to linger and destroy property. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peterpcxtreme
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 30, 2005 4:35 pm PT
Review:  What a great racing game of all time... this is a must buy racing game... enhanced feature and 
 gameplay that you never get in the previous NFS game... this is the only racing game where i can 
 sit for 6 hours keep on playing without pausing (if my mom didn't stop me ;) ) extra police pursuit 
 feature which make this game more action and the sound effects, music, graphics and the cinematic 
 combine which make this game what i call the best racing game i'd never play before... besides Mia 
 is sexy and hot make me more confident and wanna beat everyone in the game...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: psppwns
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 30, 2005 9:16 am PT
Review:  Need For Speed Most Wanted puts the series back into the fast lane after last years slightly disappointing 
 Need For Speed Underground 2.
  
  In this game the environment has been switched from a neon-filled city at night, to a beautiful, 
 sun-shine filled landscape which looks as though its constantly in fall.
  
  The racing is basically the same as previous instalments. You buy a stock car, win some races, 
 and upgrade it to go faster, win some more races, and add some paint and a body kit to look cool.
 
  
  Sounds basic right? Wrong! At its core its an arcade racer but its done with such flair and style 
 and the story is so deep and intriguing that you begin to wonder why you ever bothered with those 
 real driving simulators (ahemGT4ahem) . 
  
  This is adrenaline-fuelled arcade excitement at its best! And just when you think it couldnt get 
 any faster or more exciting you get chased by the cops!
  Remember Need For Speed Hot Pursuit 2? Take the chases from that game, multiply the fun factor 
 by 10, and add some awesome special moves and some amazing sound effects and you have a game 
 that will blow you away like a 12-gauge shotgun blast to the head!
  
  However, due to the increased fun factor in the police chases this will cause an increased frustration 
 factor as well. But persevere and you will be rewarded well!
  
  The graphics are wonderful too! Beautiful lighting effects and sun flairs make you want to put 
 on some sun glasses while you play! And the varying weather effects look superb! The car models 
 are as detailed as ever, however there still isnt any damage modelling, which is a shame.
  
  The AI is a little rubber band as well, but then again what games AI isn't these days?
 
  Also, on the PC version the cars seem a little twitchy. If you are using an analog joy pad to 
 play the game (which is the best way to experience it short of a steering wheel) you will find 
 that the steering on the analog stick is very sensitive. There is no way to turn down the sensitivity 
 in the game either, so it takes a little getting used to but it doesnt detract from the overall 
 experience.
  
  But all in all this is a beautiful, well crafted and fun-filled game thatll last ya for months 
 to come! If your PC can handle it, youre in for a real visual treat, and you will wonder why anyone 
 ever bothered to buy that dreadful X-Box360 to play this game. But thats a different subject all 
 together :P
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arob_2006
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 30, 2005 4:37 am PT
Review:  I downloaded the demo yesterday. I played it for like three hours. The thing I liked the most about 
 the demo is that you can run from the cops in a bad ride. The graphics card in my computer is a 
 little out dated but the graphics on the game seemed to be quite realistic. The sound tracks were 
 a little bit over rated. The game needs a lil mike jones. The demos car selection was ok but im 
 sure that the real games selection is alot better. The overall gameplay is excellent. I recommend 
 this game to anyone who likes an adrenaline rush and a speed craze. I give this game a perfect 
 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dinokaki
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 30, 2005 3:41 am PT
Review:  good graph... gameplay and sound
  good graph... gameplay and sound good graph... gameplay and soundgood graph... gameplay and soundgood 
 graph... gameplay and soundgood graph... gameplay and soundgood graph... gameplay and soundgood graph... gameplay 
 and soundgood graph... gameplay and soundgood graph... gameplay and soundgood graph... gameplay and 
 soundgood graph... gameplay and soundgood graph... gameplay and soundgood graph... gameplay and soundgood 
 graph... gameplay and soundgood graph... gameplay and soundgood graph... gameplay and soundgood graph... gameplay 
 and soundgood graph... gameplay and soundgood graph... gameplay and soundgood graph... gameplay and 
 soundgood graph... gameplay and soundgood graph... gameplay and soundgood graph... gameplay and soundgood 
 graph... gameplay and soundgood graph... gameplay and soundgood graph... gameplay and soundgood graph... gameplay 
 and soundgood graph... gameplay and soundgood graph... gameplay and soundgood graph... gameplay and 
 soundgood graph... gameplay and soundgood graph... gameplay and soundgood graph... gameplay and soundgood 
 graph... gameplay and soundgood graph... gameplay and sound 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ParkCarsHere
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 29, 2005 6:57 pm PT
Review:  I really dislike giving games 10's as I feel that no game can be 'perfect,' but this is one of 
 those that seems to be near perfect. As there are many reviews out for this so far, I'll cut to 
 the chase with my personal opinions.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay in this game is just plain fun! My personal favorite is the Hot pursuit, 
 but you also have the normal races, including toll booth (point to point, timed race) , circuit, 
 sprint, and others that add a lot of variety to the game. Like I said, the hot pursuit part is 
 my favorite. You can have a ton of cops chasing after you, setting up roadblocks, spike strips, 
 trying to block you in, or just trying to knock you off the road, it offers a refreshing break 
 from normal racing, and definately an excellent element returning to the NFS series. The pursuit 
 part definately made this game excellent.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are amazing! The cut scenes are beautifully done - the NFS team shot real 
 actors doing the scenes and then just graphically changed it to look animated, and the result is 
 breathtaking. I loved the cut scenes! The only bad thing about this is damage detail: the only 
 damage is windows breaking - no broken fenders, smashed in bumper or any of that stuff, just windows 
 breaking... however, because the rest of the game is so well done, I feel it still deserves the 
 10.
  
  Sound: Sound is also amazing! Each car, engine, and upgrade that you get sound unique and very 
 realistic. The voice acting by both the cops and the racers is excellent as well, definately adding 
 a lot to the game and a 10 to sound.
  
  Value: The value of this game is outstanding. You can go through the campaign mode which will take 
 you (I'm guessing) 20+ hours depending how much time you spend in free roam, pursuits, etc. However, 
 after that you can either race online, do regular races/pursuit, or do the campaign again! This 
 game will never really end, and because it is so enjoyable you will be playing it until the next 
 NFS game comes out!
  
  Tilt: I have owned, played, and beaten every NFS game to beat. I must say I have enjoyed most of 
 them, but my favorite until Most Wanted was Hot Pursuit 2... the game was amazing. I feel like 
 NFS: Most Wanted has gone above and beyond HP2 and is definately a great game to own!
  
  I recommend this game for anyone who enjoys the NFS series, racing, or just plain "running-away-from-cops" 
 fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lalakool_16
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 29, 2005 5:22 pm PT
Review:  First of all, it goes without saying that this game would blow without the cops. But because of 
 the "fuzz" it kicks total ass! The soundtrack could have been a lot better though, because I really 
 hate EMO and RAP. I really cant stand any of the songs in those genres. I just use windows media 
 player to listen to music during the game so it's all good. The racer AI is pretty dumb, and as 
 mentioned, gets much better quite abruptly. Otherwise though, the game is pretty kick ass! I would 
 reccomend it to anyone and everyone with a decent computer. The graphics are considerably better 
 than those of NFSU2 as well, and this makes a huge difference. The racing does get a little boring 
 over time, but it is still made up for by the cop chases. WHAT A RUSH!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: razvantomescu
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 29, 2005 1:27 pm PT
Review:  SUPER TAREEEEE!!!
  
  "Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipisicing elit, sed do eiusmod tempor incididunt ut 
 labore et dolore magna aliqua. Ut enim ad minim veniam, quis nostrud exercitation ullamco laboris 
 nisi ut aliquip ex ea commodo consequat. Duis aute irure dolor in reprehenderit in voluptate velit 
 esse cillum dolore eu fugiat nulla pariatur. Excepteur sint occaecat cupidatat non proident, sunt 
 in culpa qui officia deserunt mollit anim id est laborum."
  
  "Sed ut perspiciatis unde omnis iste natus error sit voluptatem accusantium doloremque laudantium, 
 totam rem aperiam, eaque ipsa quae ab illo inventore veritatis et quasi architecto beatae vitae 
 dicta sunt explicabo. Nemo enim ipsam voluptatem quia voluptas sit aspernatur aut odit aut fugit, 
 sed quia consequuntur magni dolores eos qui ratione voluptatem sequi nesciunt. Neque porro quisquam 
 est, qui dolorem ipsum quia dolor sit amet, consectetur, adipisci velit, sed quia non numquam eius 
 modi tempora incidunt ut labore et dolore magnam aliquam quaerat voluptatem. Ut enim ad minima 
 veniam, quis nostrum exercitationem ullam corporis suscipit laboriosam, nisi ut aliquid ex ea commodi 
 consequatur? Quis autem vel eum iure reprehenderit qui in ea voluptate velit esse quam nihil molestiae 
 consequatur, vel illum qui dolorem eum fugiat quo voluptas nulla pariatur?" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: C-hiller
Rating: 6.1
Date: Nov 29, 2005 12:32 pm PT
Review:  i don't think most wanted is a good game, yeah sure good graphics but far to less items to mod 
 up your ride, where the hell are the neon lights!!
  and they got it all stucked up in one garage again, saves a lot of benzine driving to 6 different 
 types of shops but i think underground 2 was more realistic then most wanted. the story in MW is 
 better then Underground 2, the whole blacklist idea gives the game some extra realism, but i think 
 after getting on the 9th place on the blacklist the game begans to bore.
  i have expected more since underground 2.
  
  
  P. S the Cops are great!: P 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: eardstapa
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 29, 2005 11:09 am PT
Review:  Yes, it is the ninth Need for Speed game and one might expect to be simply a rehash of old ideas. 
 Well, it's true but these are the best old and recent features of the series that were mixed into 
 visually appealing and extremely addictive game.
  It is difficult to talk about flaws. The presentation is amazing from street graffiti inspired 
 menu backgrounds through some best real-time graphics available on PC at present to awfully exaggerated 
 acting style. There is enough eye-candy , such as tilting camera if you pass by another car too 
 close, to keep you noticing new things even after several days of playing. The sound will surprise 
 you with multitude sounds of tyres on different surfaces and engine sound reflected back from different 
 objects, particularly pillars and overhead beams.
  The gameplay is extremely addictive, partly because no two races or police encounters are the same. 
 It is interesting to note that once every three games in the series the cops return to the mix 
 (NFS III Hot Pursuit, NFS 6 Hot Pursuit 2, and NFS 9 Most Wanted) . Police chases, hiding in car 
 washes, under bridges from police helicopters, evading pursuing cars, breaking through road blocks 
 is nothing new but combined with free roaming introduced in NFS Underground is the answer to the 
 prays of all PC gamers since the now forgotten Test Drive 3 Passion. Is there anything new and 
 original in this game - I don't think so. Road shortcuts were introduced in NFS II, cops and career 
 mode in NFS III, customisation and car damage in NFS IV, new race types such as drag race and free 
 roaming in NFS Underground. All these elements in their best implementation to date now come together 
 in the ninth NFS game.
  The downside: you need a killer system to enjoy the game as it should be played, with all the bells 
 and whistles on. The cars can't be customised as much as in MotorCity Online, but this game does 
 not even pretend to be realistic. It is all about insane speed chases, aerials, crashes and some 
 sexy-looking machines. So if you think you can find a better racing game on PC think twice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragstar26
Rating: 6.8
Date: Nov 29, 2005 9:40 am PT
Review:  My Rating on NFSMW ........ ( I finshed the game already ) (I have the Black Edition Version of 
 NFS MW [Few extra cars already modified mostly you get all blacklist members car unlocked and a 
 Chevy Camaro Uncustomisable {whats the point} ] )
  
  A lousy 5.5/10..... Why???? (Dont get me bad i aint critising the game just a true review from 
 a gamer)
  
  Points -- 
  1) cant customise the BMW M3 GTR at end of game only in career you can repaint it or new vinlys
 
  
  2) Lack of customisation
  
  3) No Nissan Skyline GTR Crying or Very sad
  No Nissan 350Z
  No Ferraris
  No Not many underground cars Crying or Very sad Crying or Very 
 sad Crying or Very sad Crying or Very sad Crying or Very sad
  
  4) No Drift Races
  
  5) No night time racing
  
  6) No Neon lights, head lights, lack of body kits litterally just 
 5 of them max
  
  7) Cant customise Many bonus cars unlocked, you dont get to unlock bmw as a proper customisable 
 career car (you will see when you finish the game)
  
  Good Points
  
  1) Good Story Line
  
  2) Excellent Graphics
  
  3) Ending wasnt that bad
  
  4) At least 
 there was video for the story line not like underground 2 comic book style very bad
  
  5) Heck it was really easy. Good Gameplay easy to finish the game quicky i finished it in 2.5 days
 
  
  6) 32 career cars
  
  Im gonna post this review to IGN and Gamspot for now 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fuckoff_3
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 29, 2005 8:32 am PT
Review:  This is a great game, and surprisingly enough the gamespot rating system gave it a much lower grade 
 than I had planned on after my opinions. A fair grade would be 9.0 and above.
  Certain things were left out, which were in the Underground Series, but then again it is not the 
 underground series. I feel that could have been an issue during the production of this game. 
 
  The police cars spin easily when you want to get rid of them, but in racing the opponent cars 
 are not at all easy to spin, and maybe not even possible.
  
  NFSMW is verymuch like "NFS Hot Pursuit", which was also a great game.
  
  Unfortunately, I 
 give gamespot an "0" rating for changing my username after 4 years because supposedly someone had 
 it before me !?? Interesting... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hydrolix
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 28, 2005 7:55 pm PT
Review:  This is not a driving simulator by any stretch of the imagination. I have only played for a few 
 hours at a friend's house, but I had a ton of fun doing it. 
  
  Tricking out your ride, running from the cops... watching rediculous performances by the actors... its 
 good fun, mostly because it isn't nearly as serious as the other racing games out there.
  
  The visuals on the 360 are mind-blowing too! I really enjoy the motion blur effect which happens 
 to be most visible when you are on the nitrous.
  
  This will be the first game I get when I am able to get my hands on my own 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maagi
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 28, 2005 6:06 pm PT
Review:  First of all, I have to say I haven't finished playing the game yet. But, besides tougher opponents, 
 more parts and more difficult police forces, I'm not exactly expecting a whole lot of other stuff 
 to be changing.
  
  The game formula is simple - gear up your car with more power and better looks, win races, gear 
 up some more, win tougher races, and so on. The game is almost identical to NFS-Underground series, 
 basically only police forces have been added. Thus, I shall not start dissembling the game into 
 pieces, but I'd recommend reading review's about Need For Speed - Underground 1 and 2.
  
  First thing that you see is different from Underground's, is that you're actually driving mostly 
 in somewhat daylight, or at least usually not in a complete darkness. For me this is a welcome 
 addition, and I have to say after playing it for a while, I wouldn't like to go back to driving 
 city streets at night. I like to see things, thus is why being in complete darkness doesn't exactly 
 help the cause, more like exact the opposite. In Most Wanted, I can actually *see* what's up ahead. 
 Also the enviroment isn't mostly/only city, but bit of countryside, small trailer park, etc... even 
 a golf course, which can become quite funny place to drive around when you get cops on your ass.
 
  
  Gearing up your car has changed a bit, altough I cannot yet say if it's for better or for worse. 
 Motors, suspension etc. have remained relatively the same, but exterior changes have changed a 
 bit. For example you can choose body-kits (widens the body, etc) early on. Sadly these are ready-to-use 
 sets, so I haven't been able to, for example, change only bumpers, as I was able to in previous 
 two NFS-games. So far same goes with lights etc, but I guess there's a possibility such options 
 will come available later on. Nevertheless, cars look fine, and at least I was quite pleased with 
 the possibilities. Besides, I don't get to look an awfull lot at my car when I'm driving 200 mph 
 while dodging other cars and trying to stick with the road.
  
  Driving is, in my opinion, more fun than it was in Underground series. I especially like that you 
 won't get instantly stopped at various items, but most of the time you can drive through'em. They 
 slow you down a bit of course, but at least your race isn't all fubar'ed after the first couple 
 crashes. It is a bit funny to be knocking off streetlightpoles, but the game is more arcade than 
 simulation anyway, so I'd say it just increases the havoc and chaos you leave behind. 
  More about leaving behind... leaving behind your opponents isn't any better nor worse than in previous 
 NFS-games; it's exactly the same, which I've found quite irritating to say the least. "Rubberband 
 Effect" is probably the best way to describe it. No matter how far you are, and no matter how much 
 faster you drove away from your opponents and how well you've driven so far, there's a very good 
 chance your opponents will gain the distance to you. More or less thankfully, this also works the 
 other way around too - if you get left behind too far, opponents seize standing on the gas pedal 
 and wait for you. Not literally of course, but sometimes it feels like they do. They even brake 
 in odd situations, letting me pass etc. This whole rubberband -thing does keep the race rather 
 exciting when you're not overpowering your opponents completely, but it also means that usually 
 if the race would take, say, 5 laps/rounds, the results/conclusion would be made in last mile of 
 the 5th lap or so. There isn't anything more irritating in a driving game than doing the only mistake 
 in the last corner of the race, and loosing the whole thing no matter how well you've driven the 
 race for the 4 3/4 laps. 
  Other than this, driving is fun. There's some difference between the cars and how they act in different 
 situations, but generally I found accelerating from 0 to 100 being the most varying thing with 
 the cars. For example, it's bit tricky and occasionally slightly frustrading when you're trying 
 to get away from cops after a crash or whatever, and your Ford Mustang GT is moving less than 5 
 meters in first 5 seconds, before the tires actually get some touch to the ground. Fun for a while, 
 but sometimes gets on my nerves. It does create some fancy moves with the car, though.
  
  As I mentioned earlier, there are police forces around the driving area's. And they're not just 
 there to bug you, it's more like the other way around - you're there to bug them. Getting up on 
 the driver's list you have to do certain things, which includes pestering the police any way you 
 can, including wrecking certain amounts of their cars, getting through blockades, etc. All those 
 create more bounty on your name, which in turn creates eventually a situation where your car is 
 hotter than Josie Maran in... well, you imagine the rest, it's hot anyway. When your car gets hot, 
 cops will get to you with more force etc, so you better have other cars to switch with, so that 
 your car can "cool down" while you're still driving.
  Police adds the fun-factor that Underground -series was missing - stuff to do while not racing. 
 Usually it's actually more fun to just drive away from cops than race with your opponents.
  
  For the sound effects, I don't really have much to say, they're pretty basic stuff, and possibly 
 almost the same as Underground -series had. However, the police radio's conversations are great 
 addition, and are quite well acted out too, compared to their relevancy to the game.
  Soundtrack however pleases me. Not that Underground -series wouldn't already had decent soundtrack, 
 but Most Wanted's soundtrack just happens to have more of the music I listen than previous games 
 in the series. Especially the songs that are defaulted to the racing moments really deliver an 
 additional kick to the driving, for myself at least.
  
  As conclusion, I'd have to say NFS - Most Wanted is very much like the Underground series, yet 
 bit more appealing to me. I like the daylight driving more and the police driving you down makes 
 it just a better game for me. Add stuff to wreck and some wicked shortcuts, and you got an arcade-driving 
 package to play with for a while. I doubt I'll immediately start another racing career, but shrugging 
 off cops with various cars might make the game stick on my harddrive for a while longer.
  
  Gameplay : Nothing to complain about, except the obvious console-menu's which are bit awkward with 
 keyboards sometimes.
  Graphics : They work for the game, and I expect nothing less. But I guess they still could look 
 better. 
  Sound : Cars roar the same roars as before, nothing new here. A plus for the soundtrack and police 
 radio.
  Value : Besides the cop-circus, I don't see a whole lot to keep me playing after initial completion. 
 However, bit later on, this will be just fine once again.
  Reviewer's Tilt : I like it. It's a good, light arcade driving game with certain style put into 
 it. Good, but not perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacksonfdam
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 28, 2005 10:34 am PT
Review:  Escapando um pouco da srie "Underground", que deu nova cara  srie "Need for Speed", o mais novo 
 jogo de corridas da Electronic Arts volta s origens sem tirar o pedal do submundo.
  
  "Need for Speed Most Wanted" trar de volta os policiais que marcaram as primeiras edies da srie 
 e, portanto, alm de competir com os pilotos adversrios, o jogador tambm ter de se livrar dos 
 carros com sirenes.
  
  Os pontos positivos de "Need for Speed Underground" se mantm, com a continuidade da tecnologia 
 de "streaming", permitindo correr num mapa gigante sem precisar parar para carregar dados; isso 
  feito ao mesmo tempo em que se joga.
  
  Como em jogos como "Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas", o jogador ter de realizar alguns feitos para 
 mostrar seu valor e ficar popular, adquirindo respeito por parte da comunidade.
  
  Novamente, o piloto ter inmeros veculos  disposio, desde um carro simples at esportivos 
 de luxo, permitindo os mais diversos tipos de tuning - a colocao ou troca de peas para deixar 
 a mquina com um visual nico -, alm de ter a melhor performance possvel.
  
  "Need for Speed Most Wanted" sair nos videogames PlayStation 2, Xbox, GameCube, PC, Nintendo DS, 
 Game Boy Advance e PSP, e em uma plataforma da nova gerao. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrjimp
Rating: 6.3
Date: Nov 28, 2005 9:54 am PT
Review:  It's here! The game I bought a 2000$ machine for.... Am i dissapointed? No, not really.
  
  The game looks great! The sun is reflecting in the pavement on afternoon races blinding you in 
 those upphills. Much work has been put into the enviroment. There are hillsides of forest getting 
 illuminated by the sun even though you have a big gray cloud hanging over you. And when the rain 
 starts pouring down the splatter of your opponents really inhibits your racing (better be first) .
 
  
  The game also sounds great! I dont think I have ever heard better engine noises, and its a pleasure 
 to put your foot down and rev the engine. 
  
  Then again nfsu 1 and 2 both looked and sounded great.
  
  Whats this games big flaw is the 
 racing AI. In career mode the AI is almost realistic. your opponents drive pretty crappy, doesnt 
 use shortcuts (not even the most obvious one) and they dont catch up with you if youre a good driver. 
 You also always seem to have the edge on acceleration even though its clear you car is totally 
 inferior.
  
  Later on the picture changes to both the better and worse. AI cars get faster and better but they 
 also get more inhuman. They race before you and are all over the road without loosing speed. Thus 
 if one where to try these manouvers with the same car you would easily be outrun by your competition. 
 They are also very difficult to tackle and sideswipe, beeing almost immobile. So when it comes 
 to the racing parts that it what makes this game really booring. You dont race non player characters. 
 You race computers, meaning one mistake later on and its the "restart race" button.
  
  If the game ended here it would have gotten 2 points from me.
  
  But then we get to the real 
 golden nugget of this game - The car chases. The police sounds very authentic over the radio, and 
 you really get the feel theyre really trying to get you! Also police cars aren't as immobile as 
 the race computers, you can takle them and swipe them and ram them into things. Awfully fun!!!! 
 They also take damage and eventually break down. When the helicopter chases you dust is wipped 
 up from the ground and its not an easy task avoiding 10-20 coppers when a chopper does its best 
 to spoil your view of the road.
  
  Though the AI is playing abit of tease even here. The police cars are spaning ahead of you and 
 can pop up in the most unexpected places. Why would a police car patrol a golfcourse?
  
  So all in all its a fait game. The downer is the AI (a REAL downer) and the uppers are the sound, 
 grafix (cosmetica) and the police chases. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drichard2830
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 28, 2005 7:57 am PT
Review:  I have loved these games for a long time, but ever since the NFS: Porche Unleashed, I thought the 
 series had declined. I was really excited for the first Underground installment, but was sorely 
 disappointed. This one really hit the mark on almost every count. The only real lack is the multiplayer 
 mode. After the amount of fun I've had in the single player career and challenge modes, I would 
 love to see some cops mayhem in multiplayer mode. Even if it was just to see who could rack up 
 the highest bounty before everyone gets caught. Even without the variety, though, the multiplay 
 is still fun, and the feeling of speeding through the city with a blast of NOS is so satisfying, 
 it really shouldn't be missed! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gallesh
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 28, 2005 6:48 am PT
Review:  Yeah.. it is great... Super cars ,upgrades (it's limited but ok..) tensile moments with the cops... yep 
 the pursuits are great esp. the inrace ones.. also good graphics and gameplay .. what else i want 
 from a game... 
  The only thing that gives me the craps is the terminator car thing.. which is sometimes make me 
 think nfs mw a little foolish... but after continue to playin' it you come over it.. bcause it 
 is fun fun fun.... so doesn't matter.. 
  Black Edition thing is good but not necessary ... mind your own work in the blacklist ... see you 
 on top... :)
  
  Time stealing great piece of game :) ) Get it fellas.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: floydbh
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 28, 2005 5:15 am PT
Review:  They plugged all we need in a simulation game. Hot Pursuits, amazing cars, Hot girls and lot of 
 speed!!! the environment of the tracks is perfect!
  I only want to give my opinion to the next game is to put a view inside the car, visualizing the 
 panel of the car!
  CONGRATULATIONS TO EA!
  
  Eles juntaram tudo que precisamos num jogo de simulao: persiguies quentes, carros maravilhosos, 
 Mulheres gatas e muita velocidade! o ambiente das pistas  perfeito!
  Eu soh quero opinar para o proximo jogo, que  colocar uma viso de dentro do carro, onde seja 
 possivel voc pilotar por de trs do volante, enchergando o painel do mesmo.
  
  PARABENS  EA! 
  
  CONTINUEM ASSIM 
::::::

::::::
UserName: razielram
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 28, 2005 3:12 am PT
Review:  Depois de dois jogos de tunar carros, a melhor coisa que eles fizeram foi voltar ao estilo antigo 
 (perseguio da policia) , mas tambm sem fugir ao novo estilo. Por enquanto esse  o melhor jogo 
 que joguei, seus grficos so muito bons e sua trilha sonora nem precisa dizer. O estilo rcade 
 no atrapalhou em nada, pois muitos antes reclamavam que o estivo do NSF era muito rcade e como 
 o carro no quebrava ele perdia um pouco de publico, na minha opinio se o carro detonasse durante 
 a corrida acabaria fugindo ao estilo do NFS.
  Essa foi uma grande produo da EA, todas as pessoas que conheo que jogaram esse jogo esto muito 
 contentes com ele.
  
  Parabns a todos que se envolveram com a produo dele.
  
  Raziel 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrokenJaws219
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 27, 2005 2:13 pm PT
Review:  Most Wanted was a game I didn't expect it to be this good, since the Underground series, EA practically 
 relied on its presentation to sell their games. With nothing to do, I picked up a copy and played 
 it for 15 minutes and immediately it changed my mind. FIrst off the graphics are excellent, car 
 details is great, and the motion blur is added when your driving at really high speed, of course, 
 I run my computer at high. The story is basically, you race a guy call Razor, who cheated on the 
 race and won your ride (YOUR FREAKIN' BMW M3!) and he then used YOUR car to work his way up the 
 blacklist, all the way to #1, and you have to work your way up the blacklist of 15 drivers, knocking 
 each one down to get to Razor and get your FREAKIN' M3 back! The in-game cutscenes are OFF THE 
 TOP! Especially in the beginning where you enjoy like 3-4 of those, but when your working your 
 way up the Blacklist, those cutscenes are seldom and more is better, I mean who can get enough 
 of Mia (played by Josie Maran) . The gameplay is excellently-executed, letting you drive your M3 
 in the beginning jsut to lose it and you have to start from scrap gives you an objective to go 
 up the Blacklist of 15 (it takes a long time too) whether you want to drive your M3 again (which 
 you pwn easily in the beginning) or jsut to beat Razor and see his face. Sound in the game is realistic, 
 going thru a tunnel and you can heard the force against the wind, and the roar of the engine is 
 marvelous. The soundtrack ain't bad either. This is one heck of a racing game, and with EA living 
 up to those hypes, this jsut may be one of the Best Racing of 2005. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Koolkut1218
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 27, 2005 11:28 am PT
Review:  I have been following the development of this game for quite the while, I am a fan of previous 
 NFS game titles as well (NFS, 1 2, Hot pursuit) but with the recent release of Underground Series 
 I was at a disapointment. That is, until this was released. 
  
  I will break down this game into sections and give reasons as to why or why not this game fails 
 or achieves in differnt areas.
  
  Gameplay - Simply amazing the way they have it set up, with the police chasing you at the same 
 time you are racing is just a thrilling experience. Less cars more fun, the cars drive to their 
 real life counterparts, the cutscenes involved to move the game along are amazing to watch - Makes 
 the game feel like you are playing a Small Movie in a getaway title. 
  
  Graphics - From when it rains to when it stops it is noticeable as the streets are coverd in the 
 wetness from the rain. The slick graphics engine is just simply amazing, not only is your own car 
 as beautiful as the landscape, but Civilian, Police, and other racing cars are very detailed as 
 well. There is no flaw to which have yet to be found with such a wounderful gaming engine.
  
  Sound - NFS titles have been well known for their amazing sounds they put into their games. 
 From the engine reving up , switching gears, tires squealing, to the music that plays, and the voice 
 acting. The voice acting is very professional and brings just the more flavor to the game itself. 
 However there is noticable offtrack (mostly when the police are chasing you) That when they are 
 trying to say somethng that goes with the situation, (For example, if I rammed a Police vehicle, 
 he'd still be saying "We got a 1020" Then about 10 minutes later he'd say "He just rammed me!") 
 But other then the little Voice off tracks, They do a good job non the less.
  
  Value - Overall with the addicting gameplay, amazing graphics, earcandy sound system, and the overall 
 customization you can do to you're car will have you playing this game hours on end. This game 
 is well worth the buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mehfuz
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 27, 2005 11:26 am PT
Review:  NFS Most wanted is the latest addition to the popular NFS series. If you are a fan or not you definitely 
 like this. It is add mixture of two previous games in the series. NFS underground -2 and NFS hot 
 pursuit -2. MW takes the free roam plus the various race types from U2 and pursuit mode from HP2. 
 But there are many new things that make this game enjoyable like the blacklist, bounty and many 
 challenge modes. Visuals look amazing though tracks are similar to the U2 ones and graphics are 
 a little bit yellowish.
  And its hard to see the directional signs. Soundtracks just disappoint me because they are not 
 good compare to the U2. In MW game progress in a good approach not a awful way like U2 there you 
 have to make your car 10 stars like that rather here you have to beat 15 black listed racers to 
 complete the game. Its a big game. Before challenging a racer you must complete several races and 
 reach a certain amounts of bounty. Overall a great game with some lacking here and there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zorlok83
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 27, 2005 5:55 am PT
Review:  First of all I must say a word for the town you are driving in, its JUST AMAZING, you just have 
 to see it for yourself...
  The game has been made in Hot Pursuit style and its fun, however, it can become really hard and 
 frustrating when all the milestones are met and the cops get you at the end (especially if you 
 get caught with by running over some spikes on a road block, and yes there are roadblocks and even 
 choppers) .
  I've been playing for a week now, of course not full time and up untill now I am No.4 on the blacklist, 
 I unlock all the cars by beating No.3 guy so i wonder whats after that, I guess that's one of the 
 reasons that someone will want to play more.
  Anyway, its an amazing game, very fun to play, Enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adidare
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 27, 2005 5:20 am PT
Review:  i always been a fan of hot persiut 2 but i feel realy sad when i played underground 2 because of 
 weak story and alot of roaming make me sick 
  although it had cetian great aspects like custamaizing cars make ur car rocket but real idea came 
 and they join them to produce real deal i mean
  nost wanted city of rockport sometime its look like tracks of ug2 and some 
  time like as beautiful 
 as hp2; s new features like milestone and earning bounty to face rival is great the chick mia she. s 
 beautiful but the best character of the game is sgt cross but sadly he appeared just once till 
 yat
  the only thing i didnt like about this game is that we r unable to drive hp2 cars 
  i mean cars like ferrari 360 ,maclrean f1 etc and best thing about the game is speed effect that 
 is when u r driving at 150 or more 
::::::

::::::
UserName: B_Lashley
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 27, 2005 2:53 am PT
Review:  When I heard for NFS: Most Wanted I just couldn't wait till the game is
  released. Such reality, the selection of cars is bigger than NFS: U2 
  and the game runs on almost 
 any PC. I spent so many hours in this game
  trying to beat the oponents and when I beat someone the reward is very cool. The one thing that 
 i don't like in this game is the police well they're 
  easy to "destroy" but when the guy with the Corvette C6 comes the game
  starts to be rough. They're 
 trying to box you so you can't move and if they do this you're a goner (your money or car) . The other 
 thing that bothers me is the traffic cars, when i hit someone they're trying to wreck my car and 
 especially the taxis they're very annoing. So the thing that i wanted to say
  is that the game has it's lacks and pluses but everything else is perfect.
  Play the game, be 
 most wanted!:) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EatU4Lunch
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 26, 2005 11:46 pm PT
Review:  Most Wanted is a great game. Its a must have for any racing game fan.
  
  But sadly its not without flaws. The career races become painfully dull and as I neared 
 the end of the Blacklist, the required races to qualify felt more and more like a chore. The AI 
 drivers cheat, making such things as sprints/speed trap races with police where crashes are almost 
 unavoidable a huge hassle since the AI recovery from a crash is absurd. Its frustrating 
 to drive 3 perfect laps suddenly have a car drive out in front of you and find the AI, who just 
 10 seconds ago crashed into a truck blow by you at 150+mph. But to be fair, I cant say that 
 anyone who has played the previous NFS games did not expect this. The AI in all NFS games cheated 
 on some level.
  
  A new flaw in the game in my opinion is the redone drag racing. In Underground which introduced 
 drag racing the traffic was mostly randomly placed. Yet in Most Wanted, its always preset 
 and full of scripted events. (Also, did I mention that the AI cheats horribly?) Anyway, the problem 
 with the preset traffic and scripted events is that inevitably the races turn into a session of 
 trial and error followed by a memorization challenge. It boils down to remembering where all the 
 cars are and the right time to switch lanes to dodge the scripted events since there is NO way 
 to dodge a truck that suddenly drives out into your lane as youre doing 180+ mph unless 
 you have jedi powers.
  
  Finally, where are the replays? Even limited length replay would be great. But not putting a replay 
 option in a game where the environment is so detailed and beautiful is almost a crime.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ibrahimbilal
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 26, 2005 10:43 pm PT
Review:  I have a very bad appetite for NFS games..... and this game has made me starving. It has got breath 
 taking situations when the police comes after you and sorround you... not giving you a chance to 
 move even an inch.
  Before the release, i thought this game would be a merger of NFS 6 and underground but the creators 
 have put their extra effort to give a unique touch to this game...
  This game has unique gameplay environment, controls are a bit different and difficult like NFS 
 5. And the best part of the game is Josie moran. You are tempted to get awards and bonuses to see 
 her on your screen, talking to you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fleshnbones
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 26, 2005 4:11 pm PT
Review:  When I start to load and play this game to my PC it was awesome to see those cinematic effects 
 of the game every bits and pieces was programmed superbly, EA was earn another footstep when it 
 comes to producing games. I'm wondering what would it be the next level of need for speed? hope 
 that would more bone crackling game to the max!!!!!!! 
  The Good: Outrunning the cops is extremely exciting; outstanding sound effects; sharp graphics; 
 tones down some of the over-the-top product placement found in the previous nfs games; mindblowing 
 full-motion video cutscenes. 
  The Bad: Racer AI isn't too bright at first, gets wicked smart later on; not enough mindblowing 
 full-motion video cutscenes. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: marcioriva
Rating: 6.8
Date: Nov 26, 2005 3:32 pm PT
Review:  O jogo melhorou em muitos aspectos, como na continuidade do jogo quando termina uma corrida, ter 
 que prestar ateno onde tem policia, fugir da policia tendo que se esconder, mas deixou muito 
 a desejar na jogabilidade,  muito facil de se fazer as curvas, quase nem se usa freio. Muitos 
 graficos exceletes mas esqueceram da parte da diverso que  contralar o carro nas freiadas, fazer 
 uma curva usando o freio de mo, diminuiram bastante as possibilidades de personalizar o carro, 
 e a performance dele.
  Por isso ainda acho o NFS porsche o melhor de todos seguido bem de perto pelo Underground 2, quanto 
 ao must wanted, vou jagando pra ver o como  o final e s. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VonDouche
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 26, 2005 1:25 pm PT
Review:  Most Wanted goes more into its Need for Speed roots by concentrating more on the driving and a 
 bit less on the customization. 
  
  The game works like so: You're a street racer (duh) and you run into some people who aren't very 
 much fond of you. The leader of this group, as well as your main rival in the game, is #15 on a 
 blacklist of 15 racers. His gang rigs your car (obviously without your knowing) and you race him. 
 Your car, being rigged, craps out on you and he wins the race, thus winning the pink slip to your 
 car. He then uses your car and gets to #1 on the Blacklist. And thus the story begins. Mia, your 
 "hookup" in the game, hooks you up with a ride. You win races, get money, customize the car and 
 work your way up the blacklist to get to #1 and beat your main rival. Naturally, the more you move 
 up, the more areas and customization parts you unlock. In order to challenge a blacklisted rider, 
 you have to complete a preset list of challenges. These include having achieved a certain number 
 of milestones gained during cop chases (such as "Avoid 3 roadblocks" or "Trade paint") , having 
 won a certain number of races and having your bounty at a certain amount. 
  
  While the customization is here, it's definately not as varied as in Underground 2. For starters, 
 you can't customize headlights or tailights, the muffler tip or add neons (which makes sense since 
 the races take place during the daytime) . As for body kits, you get just that. You choose from 
 a rather small selection of about 7 or 8 preset body kits for your car, which means you can't individually 
 add front bumpers, back bumpers or sideskirts. To keep it short, the same goes for most of the 
 customization options. Less options is basically it. I, however, like this since I spend less time 
 trying to make my car look like a beast and more time unleashing that beast on the streets. But 
 don't shy away right away, though. While the customization options are limited, there's still alot 
 present to make your car look like one mean machine. 
  
  Cop chases are well done. The police will use an array of tactics to bust you, including trying 
 to box you with several cars, popping your tires with spikes, road blocks, SUVs ramming you head 
 on and more. It's real fun listening in on their radio since it really does sound like a real life 
 car chase. They communicate with each other and come up with tactics and it's just plain fun listening 
 in. 
  
  That's roughly it. If you liked Underground 2, definately give this one a shot. It may concentrate 
 less on the racing but it goes back to concentrating on what Need for Speed is all about... the 
 racing.
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bichula
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 26, 2005 1:19 pm PT
Review:  CADA ASPECTO DEL JUEGO ES INCREIBLE DESDE LAS PERSECUCIONES HASTA EL TUNING , LAS SECUENCIAS DE 
 VIDEO SON PERFECTAS CON EL FILTRO DE VIDEO NUEVO QUE SE HA OCUPADO , LOS AUTOS SON GRAFICAMENTE 
 PERFECTOS , EL SONIDO ES MUY BUENO , CON RESPECTO AL GAMEPLAY LO UNICO QUE SE LE PUEDE CRITICAR 
 ES QUE EL TUNING ERA MUCHO MEJOR EN EL NFSU2 , PERO LOS MODOS DE CARRERA NUEVOS LE DAN UN NUEVO 
 GIRO A UNA SERIE QUE SE PENSABA QUE CON LA SERIE UNDERGROUND YA HABIA ALCANZADO UN GRAN NIVEL SIN 
 EMBARGO EA NOS DEMUESTRA QUE ESTABAMOS EQUEIVOCADOS Y NOS SORPRENDE CON UN ICREIBLE JUEGO SIN DUDA 
 ,MOST WANTED KICK ASS!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: globalchimp
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 26, 2005 1:03 pm PT
Review:  If you like the Fast and the Furious movies, this is as close as you'll get. Never in a raceing 
 game did it feel so right, so good. It really makes you feel like you're right there, the sounds 
 the visuals... AWESOME. The game can get a little repetitive but that is something I have encountered 
 with every racing game so far.
  
  Gameplay:
  The cutscenes are very nice to look at and are very stimulating i. e. they make you wanna race don't 
 get me wrong lol
  So far I've not come across anything that would make me put it down for a while, the system is 
 rewarding and makes you want to keep playing. Sometimes it appears as if the AI is noobified tho...?
 
  
  Graphics:
  Well done. No less than you'd expect from a game at this time, but not a lot more either. It puts 
 you there and sets a VERY good vibe.
  
  Sound:
  Ooh... this is the best part. The acceleration the shifting the burning rubber, it all sounds SO 
 perfect. Defenitly the best sounds I've heard in a game so far.
  
  Value:
  Replay value imo is kind of crap, and the online racing is too plain. But if you want to race Fast 
 n Furious-style it's worth every penny. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Model-007
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 26, 2005 10:39 am PT
Review:  I have played every Need for Speed game till date, and after what i saw in NFS Underground 2. i 
 did not expect anything new in another mod NFS game, but what i got was really, really awsome !
 
  
  Graphics: Well ,to play the game on max levels of detail and res, your gonna need a beast of a 
 machine. But even on my FX 5950 ultra, i was able to play the game on medium detail and on full 
 resolution. The ingame graphics are the best i have ever seen in a racing game ! lthough there 
 is a little too much motion blur at some points, it can always be turned off. the best part about 
 the ingame graphics are the cars, they are very sharp and detailed and look really sweet. The tracks 
 and surroundings are also well made and are better than the previous games in the series.
  
  Sound: When played on a powerful surround sound system, the car sounds are absolutely amazing 
 !You will be totally immersed in the game with all the gear shifting sounds and no car lover would 
 not appreciate the rev of an engine in this game. the only downside to the whole games sound, its 
 agin the EA Trax. I feel that ES like to give washed up rappers a chance to score in their games, 
 but someone should explain to them why the rappers are washed up. Just plain punk music all the 
 time and there was not one song in the list which was worth lisning to. but you can always turn 
 that off too and enjoy the cranking up of your engine !Another good thing is the way to police 
 communicate with each other throughout the gane, it is just very realistic and helps you know what 
 exactly they are upto.
  
  Gameplay: In the beginning you ride quite a powerful BMW, so depending on its specs, e handling 
 is great. But later when you have to get back to stock cars, until you upgrade it the controls 
 are very stiff especially on turns. This shows that for a change, modding enhances the handling 
 of your car, not just speeds it up. The controlling of cars is a little less smooth compared to 
 NFS UG2 so it might take a little getting used to, but its not bad at all. 
  
  Story: The Career mode of the game is just awsome and it makes you want to play the game , it really 
 really does. the concept of a blacklist which you have to climb, sets a goal for you which is much 
 further than reaching a photoshoot like in the previous game. Hence, you really wanna keep playing. 
 And trust me, it takes a lot of races to get to the top. apart from the races, the entire storyline 
 is gripping and even with the FMV videos which are quite frequent, they still see to be fun with 
 some good acting too. it also would have been good if they allowed us to have more control over 
 the mods we do to our car, but even the set body kits are good enough eye candy
  
  All in all, even if you have never played a Need for Speed game before, you will still love this 
 one, and for thos who are fans of the previous game, its triples the fun. With the edition of cops, 
 they chases are thrilling and keep making you beg for more. Best game of season and definately 
 a must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GriMGraVe
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 26, 2005 9:54 am PT
Review:  I finally got the chance to review the long waited NFSMW. In general, Most Wanted is infact a great 
 game. It mixes the best parts of HP (pursuits are just amazing) and some racing from Underground.
 
  
  Unfortunatly, if you were waiting to fully costumize your ride like you could do in Underground 
 2, you will be dissapointed.
  Its not possible to add neons, change mufflers, change leds, and, you can only choose body kits. 
 (4 or 5, depending on the car) .
  
  Another thing that made some fans upset was the car list.
  Cars like the civic, skyline from 
 Underground or the Opel Speedster (lotus elise biggest rival) or even the maclaren f1 from HP are 
 missing. Instead, we get unecessary cars like the audi A4 or the fiat punto.
  
  Lets talk about its qualities.
  
  Graphically, MW is awsome, the world details (birds flying, 
 weather changing) , shadows, car models are simply amazing. Things like the world details can explain 
 why EA decided that MW would occur during the day instead of night.
  
  The sound is also very good. Its soundtrack is great with a good range of metal to rap. The engines 
 "roar" greatly (just check out the spectacular gallardo) .
  
  The gameplay is.... need for speed with something new. the so called speedbreaker helps you evading 
 cops, tight corners or even when you want to get pass below a truck. The pursuit is the biggest 
 addition. Running away from the cops may require some skill when you aquire a lot of heat. Bt w 
 the cops are really smart, if you hit a wall or a car, they will try everything trap you. The heat 
 level can be decreased with some modifications on your car (changing the paint, rims, kits helps 
 a lot) or using another car. Besides, its allways better to have 2 cars, just in case you get arrested.
 
  
  The game starts pretty easy, but it gets harder as you rise on the blacklist, but then again, that 
 its up to your skills.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snakeam
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 26, 2005 7:41 am PT
Review:  One Word, VROOOM!
  
  You want Action, Speed, Fun, Race, Graphics, Controls, Lots of Cars, and customizations, This is 
 your game, You need a good PC to run it though, i got a P4 2.8 and 1gig rams with ATI 9800 Pro 
 Radeon, and it runs Smooth, this is one of the BEST games i ever played this year, if you love 
 cars, high speed chase with cops , you will definitely love this game, its GREAT!
  I've reached position number 7 on the black List, am having trouble running away from police after 
 heat level 3, they are pretty tough to run away from, and i think i found a bug, just go to the 
 bus station and clip up the second floor, cops wont follow you there ;) , that IF u can run away 
 from them in time, they are really annoying sometimes, but its fun running away from them, and 
 the cops radio makes the experiance even more fun, the game is a MUST HAVE for Racers! , AMAZING 
 GAME!!
  One thing though, am really annoyed because of the release dates from US and the UK, Why the US 
 get it first? WHY we dont have THE BLACK EDITION? Discrimination i tell you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: s_vv
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 26, 2005 4:15 am PT
Review:  This game has crazy amont of detail great graphics, sleek car designs and almost perfect sound 
 and gameplay. The PC version is by no chance lesser than its console counter parts it totally rocks. Its 
 the best in the NFS series. Just 
  enjoy have fun its great.
  NFS Most Wanted is the best NFS Most Wanted is the best
  NFS Most Wanted is the best NFS Most 
 Wanted is the best
  NFS Most Wanted is the best NFS Most Wanted is the best
  NFS Most Wanted is the best NFS Most Wanted is the best
  NFS Most Wanted is the best NFS Most 
 Wanted is the best
  NFS Most Wanted is the best NFS Most Wanted is the best
  NFS Most Wanted is the best
  NFS Most Wanted is the best
  NFS Most Wanted is the best
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: adam_laher
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 26, 2005 12:32 am PT
Review:  When turning with yor car yor car doesn't slide or nothing lyk dat. It has been da best racing game 
 out so far for NEED FOR SPEED MOST WANTED.
  But the game is very hard and will take a long tym 2 finish it. The tracks are very long and the 
 car has infinte nitrous. Yor nitrous wil com bak when u go fast wid yor car. There is even cop mode, drag, sprint 
 and much more. There is a new recing mode called speed trailer. The way u can win is that u have 
 to go fast at each camera. At the end of the race the car wich had da fastest speed wil be the winner. There 
 is so much more about the game but it wil take me 4 ever.
  
  CANNOT WAIT UNTIL THE NEXT NEED FOR SPEED GAME COMES OUT.
  
  So thank u 4 listenin 2 me review.
 
  
  I am a member of gamespot and u can send me any messages anytime.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: shafaq_maula
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 25, 2005 8:18 pm PT
Review:  The physics engine did not really meet up to my expectations. People who likes to play simulation 
 games and who have been playing underground2 each and everyday won't really like the driving part. 
 Although there are some new and unique features which make up for it but the game has turned into 
 an arcade type. I used to play underground2 with manual type gear shift but over here i guess its 
 impossible to play a circuit type race with manual gear shift. They should have made the driving 
 part a bit more realistic. They have also excluded individual visual upgrades like bumpers and 
 sideskirts. They have also excluded dynorun which was my favourite part in Underground 2. Another 
 thing is that the car tempts to brake automatically if it is travelling at a low speed. Other than 
 all these, the game is absolutely fantastic with enriched graphics and superb sound quality. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedSoxRebel
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 25, 2005 8:07 pm PT
Review:  I played this game and thought it was pretty hard doing the challeneges I mean running from the 
 cops is pretty cool and everythng but if I spun out and hit a wall or lamp post or some object 
 that will make you stop right in your tracks well then getting started again was a hastle ontop 
 of the cops hitting against you and samshing you in your racing the busted meter to get out and 
 if you ever do get out you have to be pretty talented not to just spin out and then the cops hit 
 you into the wall down the street.
  This game is pretty cool in the multiplayer department 1v1 2v2 3v3 and so on. The only problem 
 with this is that if you make a bad turn or hit a truck and the other cars go flying by you the 
 little chance you'll get back to 1st or even 2nd place. 
  THERE are cool cars in this game and nice info just the making your account to do the Singleplayer 
 stuff and the you have to spend 5 minutes typing in online names and having EA search the every 
 one to see if they have that name but what can I say its a solid racing game and the cops make 
 it even better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stamate
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 25, 2005 5:46 pm PT
Review:  Brilliant game beter then underground 1 and 2. The cars are really cool and that cops are so stuped 
 sometime i like it the old nfs with cops. The graphik is cool the gameplay is cool everything is 
 cool i dont know what wrong is in this game the game is the most cool nfs i am ever play. The game 
 is cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool 
 cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool 
 cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool and cool. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CloudSSJ7
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 25, 2005 3:09 pm PT
Review:  I didn't thought that it will as good as it is. I can't describe it in ords cuz this game is almost 
 perfect...
  There are a lot of cars, new upgrades, new, bigger city and of coursse police :)
  The essnce 
 of this game is of course tuning your ride and duels with all fastest people in town. The main 
 fun alos are chases with cops. They have everything that they need to stop you... I won't tell 
 you what they got cuz it wil lbe spoiler.
  
  As for graphic... What can i say i'm going to shop for better graphic card cuz that graphic is 
 AWESOME !!! If you have good computer then you may spend first hour on riding around time and watch 
 at designers work. 
  
  In my opinion it's "must buy" position.
  "MOST WANTED" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VW2k
Rating: 8.1
Date: Sep 2, 2006 6:50 am PT
Review:  I expected a game in which i could customize almost everything at the car. But i was dissapointed 
 to see that most wanted has less options to customize your car than underground. He is not an underground 
 but it is most wanted with police will say EA. But... I really like the graphics but with graphics 
 and police a game cannot be a innovative member of the very appreciated Nfs series. To finish it 
 you need too much hours and i have to say that at the end you get so bored that you want to finish 
 it just for your collection of finished games. At the end he should be more immersive. The gameplay 
 it is good. The sound is very good. If tou have 5.1 audio sistem and turn the volume at maximum you 
 will really feel that you are in that car. One point in plus for that. But as a minus i will mention 
 the high hardware requierments to play at maximum details the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: privatepainsack
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 24, 2005 8:41 pm PT
Review:  I had the unique oppertunity to visit the EA studio in Vancouver, BC when this game was in the 
 early stages of testing and production. Now I look back and wonder how they managed to make what 
 they had back then into what they have now, because this is the most intense experience I've had. 
 
  
  The cinimatics are the first thing you really notice. They green-screened real people then added 
 computer rendered surroundings and touched up the people to make it look somewhat matching and 
 came up with some of the best cut-scenes in a game ever. 
  
  The graphics are tip top. Not much was done wrong here. The water effect on the road is awsome, 
 the cars are detailed, the environments are interesting... Not much you can say that isn't a good 
 thing.
  
  I used a gamepad to race and find that the controls were reasonably easy to set up the way I like. 
 Im not sure how enjoyable it would be with a keyboard, as I have not tried it.
  
  I docked the sound a bit, not because it isnt good quality, but because its limited options (no 
 EAX?) and because the EA TRAX, athough awsome for some people and appropriate to the whole "street 
 vibe", do not appeal to me all that much and there is no way, to my knowledge, to change the music 
 to something I would enjoy more.
  
  Also I should note that I got the Black Edition, and suggest that everyone who buys this game does 
 the same, as it comes with 67 Camaro SS and BMW M3 GTR bonus cars and many other bonuses.
  
  All in all, an awesome game that is just plain well done. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bugatti111
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 24, 2005 8:07 pm PT
Review:  You get all the hot cars in most wanted. It returns with probably the two flagship cars in the 
 entire series : the Mclaren F1 and the CLk-Gtr. Not only that you also get the SLR, Mucilage, the 
 gallardo, the V12 Vanquish, the Carrara GT, the 911. Plus, the underground cars : RX-8, M3, STI, 
 Corvette, Mustang and all the underground satyle cars. ANd i almots forgot : COPS !!!!!!!!!!! Thats 
 bring up the rating by like 50 pioints. I jsut wish gameaspot made a rating for 5-1-0 for PSP. 
 Also, with the PC version, im pretty sure u could do some mods iwth the cars. ON some websites 
 you can actauillly downlaod soem hot cars and the grpaics/ specifcations for the cras are mad GOOD 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LazerFX
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 24, 2005 5:19 pm PT
Review:  What can I say? Need for Speed: Most Wanted is a combination of the old NFS-style circuit racing 
 with cops, and NFS: Underground 2's free-roaming, mod-your-car, 'tude racing. Surprisingly, the 
 whole package works very well, and keeps you coming back for more.
  
  Gameplay - very good, though they have taken out NFS: U and NFS: U2's awesome drift modes - that 
 looses one point, and the slight repetition looses another point. Other than these niggles, this 
 is as good an arcade racer as you can get.
  
  Graphics - good, very good. This is a high-quality game, and though the motion blur is slightly 
 overdone at times you get the feeling that there was a lot of effort put into the graphics. The 
 only quibble could be that the ground-plane shows a very slight pixellation, yet when you're going 
 at 120mph you don't really notice it.
  
  Sound - easily the best bit of the game. Different vehicles sound differently, and as a Subaru 
 afficionado, I can say that the WRX STi sounds very authentic; something many of the previous editions 
 failed at reproducing so well. Then, too, there is the cops radio chatter. It comes to something 
 when you can spend 30 minutes being chased by the police with almost constant radio chatter, and 
 not feel that there is excessive repetition. The sheer number of phrases that the police have in 
 their vocabulary is phenomenal - and totally necessary, as a large part of this game is going to 
 be you, running from the police.
  
  Value - Pretty good, I got it for 20 (UK) from online stores (Check out froogle. google. co. uk or 
 froogle. google. com for the best price near you) . The game is long, and there are excellent online 
 options too.
  
  Tilt - Why did I give this 10? Because I thoroughly enjoyed it, and am still thoroughly enjoying 
 it now. It's actually pulled me away from World of Warcraft, and that's possibly the best accolade 
 I can give.
  
  Final word: If you like arcade racing games, and aren't bothered by the lack of physics realism 
 in this game, buy it, and prepare to enjoy it for a long time to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SwissCamel
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 24, 2005 3:21 pm PT
Review:  My first introduction to the Need for Speed series was with Porsche Unleashed, however despite 
 it's popularity it never really cut it with me and so I never really gave it a chance. My next 
 Need for Speed was Underground 2, and having little experience of other racing games, I found the 
 options to customise cars and the street setting to be a novelty, which coupled with the arcade 
 style racing which provided a good impression of speed and handling without being restrictively 
 realistic made for an excellent game.
  
  Most Wanted continues in a pretty similar vein. The visuals are superb, and as far as I can tell 
 the engine noises are realistic and the sound track fits nicely although it is rather short and 
 can get quite tiresome after a few hours of play. The story line is strong than in Underground 
 2 and is interesting enough for you to pay attention to it rather than just focus on the races, 
 and the story aspect of the game is unobtrusive enough to give the game a free-roam feel. The choice 
 of 32 cars may be criticised as somewhat limited which in some respects it is, but the gradual 
 increase in performance makes unlocking them rewarding and it doesn't really affect the game that 
 greatly.
  The premise of the game is to work your way up the 'Blacklist' a list of the 15 best racers, however 
 to get a chance to race each blacklist racer you must meet certain conditions involving winning 
 a certain number of races and meeting criteria related to your wanted level (bounty) . 
  
  The races are pretty similar to Underground 2, although they have done away with the drift races 
 (never a particular favourite of mine but they did provide variety) and replaced them with checkpoint 
 races and speed trap races (where you must go through numerous speed traps clocking up the cumulative 
 highest speed.) Whilst they do become repetitive, the nature of the game lends itself to 'dipping 
 in', and breaking the play up so you are far more likely to come back later in the evening as opposed 
 to 'getting sick of it'. However it is the bounty aspect of the game where I personally feel the 
 gameplay is let down. To raise bounty you must essentially avoid police capture, however the more 
 often you do this your 'wanted level' increases and the police take ever increasing measures to 
 stop you. I felt as though the police chases became very boring very quickly. The police attempt 
 to stop you by boxing you in, leaving you unable to move and thus ending up busted (which I have 
 to say is perhaps the most irritating way of 'losing' I have seen in any game in a long time) . 
 The main problem with police chases however, is not the chases themselves per se, but the fact 
 that they are a requirement to progress through the game so you end up trying to get chased, it 
 just seems a slightly lazy way of lengthening the games life. 
  
  Need For Speed Most Wanted is a fun, playable game and it's similarities to Underground 2 are not 
 a criticism, but it offers little in the way of originality and can become repetitive.
  Despite this, there is an addictiveness to the game which is hard to describe, I am not really 
 that fond of it but I simply cant help myself from clicking on the icon for 'a few races', so I 
 dare say it does have a lot of life in it, but aside from it's visuals it will be hard to rave 
 to your friends about it. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HellFire01
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 24, 2005 12:38 pm PT
Review:  I was waiting for this game to finally come out... Just the thought of mixing exotics and imports 
 in one game gets the adrenaline going. Once I had it, installed it and played the game for a couple 
 of minutes I immediately noticed something... What the hell happened to drifting?! And what did 
 they do to the replays?! Not to mention the easy-to-learn tuning they did in UG2. Only three words... 
 "What the hell?!" I mean wouldn't it be cool to drift exotics, or at least see them in replays??? 
 For me, replays take a digging in letting people enjoy their games. Next is tuning, I found the 
 car tuning in NFS: UG2 easy to understand. It gave the entire series some added simulation to its 
 arcade-blood. The tuning sets apart the cars from each other, specially when going up against opponents 
 with similar cars online.
  
  I enjoy the cop chase, the graphics, the sounds and the cars they chose for the game. Hearing the 
 chatter during chases raises the adrenaline rush, moreover the feeling of being chased by several 
 cops makes the gameplay truly fun. It's nice for the developers to come up with a game that would 
 generally run in most computers. Also, I like the concept of the story. How they did it, and how 
 it makes the game interesting to play. The acting may sometimes be funny, nonetheless, catching 
 a glimpse of Josie Maran [did I get her name right?] is always refreshing. 
  
  I just hope the developers release a patch that would at least bring back the replays. Just think 
 about how much fun it would be seeing a souped-up hatchback being madly-chased by a C6 'Vette. 
 Man, that is imbalanced. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonathanleevc
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 24, 2005 4:57 am PT
Review:  everything about this game is just stunningly superb... play the game.. while playing, notice the 
 surroundings... the traffic is awesome.. the environment is clear... when you hit a gas station, it 
 explodes... the sky especially, just stop ur car and admire it, u can clouds moving, even the sun 
 is so darn bright (if not covered by the clouds) .... this is a 'MUST BUY' game for all Need for Speed 
 fans..
  there was once i magined the next Need for Speed title, "Need for Speed: Underground Hot Pursuit 
 3... i was just imagining cause since there're two underground series and two hot pursuits series, 
 why don EA just name the next similar to it... well, Most Wanted is just amazing...
  
  In conclusion, this game is the BEST racing game ever created... excellent work EA!! =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kfogleman
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 23, 2005 9:09 pm PT
Review:  I've mostly played quickrace and got maybe 1/5 of the way through the career mode. I've never been 
 into racing games, only played the old Viper Racing, Gotham 1, and some old NFS about 5 or 6 years 
 ago. So you can guess I don't have a wheel, pedals, or anything fancy. I'm not influenced by other 
 NFS or much by other racing titles.
  
  Gameplay: Easy to learn how to play, only played about 5 or 6 hours and on normal difficulty am 
 placing 1st most of the time in circuit quickplay. Controls are easy to learn and the default key 
 mapping is well placed for using a keyboard only. Interface is clean and not cluttered at all. 
 Enough types of quickplay to keep you busy for awhile if you're not yet comfortable with career. 
 AI isn't that great on normal difficulty, but seems to be better on the higher tiers. The career 
 mode is put together well with a decent storyline and some amazing cutscenes. 
  
  Graphics: The graphics are very good and haven't experienced low-frame rates or stuttering. Have 
 a Nvidia 6800 and am running everything on the max settings. Cutscenes are amazing but of course 
 there should be more! If you go off a step rise fast you can fly in the air with a decent slowmo 
 scene of your jump. Crashing or wrecking your car could be better. When you total your car in drag 
 racing mode it doesn't feel like the car is getting totaled (yes I've seen the crashes in lets 
 say burnout) . The cars front end doesn't crunch, no flipping, or parts coming off. That is minor 
 since the objective is not to crash. 
  
  Sound: Great sound effects and the soundtrack fits with the feel of the game. From the sound of 
 burning rubber to going inches from other cars it's solid.
  
  Value: Career mode is fun and as I said before quickplay has enough variety. For new fans of the 
 series and racing in general. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: praneet1
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 23, 2005 7:23 pm PT
Review:  Well.. by far the titles that game under the Need for Speed Franchise have always kept us on r seat 
 makin us play the game for hours and hours... with every progressing title under the same franchise... EA 
 Games was reaching out to fans and their NEED for SPEED... Hence came the 2 underground tiltes which 
 was a pretty good start to really hittin the spot with the right choice!!! But after Most Wanted 
 was released, I can see that people are agreeing to the fact that this is the ALL TIME best title 
 with a very strong baseline story that keeps us captured staring at the monitors wondering wat 
 twist wud come next?!?...
  
  And as usual EA Games has made the Most Wanted playable even on a system with a Graphic card starting 
 from the GeForce 5200 256MB... Yes fellas... I tested the game myself on my fren's comp. with that 
 card and it works awesome... I was playing at the 1024*768 resolution with the level of detail jus 
 above moderate... and the game runs smoothly and amazingly!!! My fren who wan't a racing simulation 
 genre fan... has changed his opinion after I installed my Most Wanted on his comp... He JUST LOVES 
 IT... there's no other way to describe the fun that he's havin with this game...
  
  For those gamers out there who are waiting to see if this game is perfect or not... well don't think 
 ... take my advice and BUY IT! An awesome game... sure to have u awestruck! The storyline is also 
 very realistic and the cars and the aftermarket parts, visual upgrades... etc etc are jus so good... everything 
 has been revamped to a new level that is sure to makes u wanna switch on ur comp back ON and play 
 another race... U jus can't get enough of it... So go ahead and get this game....
  
  ~~ I MSURE U WILL NEVER REGRET FOR HAVIN BOUGHT THIS GAME!~~
  
  So there u go... Ok now I have 
 to get to playing this game... so see ya guys in the online play!!
  
  gamefreak 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jmizz
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 23, 2005 2:46 pm PT
Review:  this game is kinda like the old 1's ... the only thing i dont like is the down grade in tuning 
 i miss the old undergound. BUT none the less its STill a hot game not a must have but a must get 
 ... its pretty fun and better story mode than ever .... as i was playin i really realize its just 
 like the old 1 raceing in the forest .... im not done with the game yet but so far it an ok game 
 ... RENT first because if u like the tuning this game really lackin in it ... it was a bad idea 
 to take out all the old tuning they should of kep every thing from the last 1 and add cops i think 
 lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark-Valkyrion
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 23, 2005 11:44 am PT
Review:  Gameplay 9/10
  
  The good side? You can modify over 30 cars, including exotics. The cop chases are back. 
  
 
  The bad side? the rubberband effect is still there. No in depth tuning. No online for the PS2.
 
  
  Other than that? This is one of the best Need For Speed games, in my opinion.
  
  Graphics 8/10
  
  The background, and streets, look pretty dull. However the cars look awesome.
 
  
  Sound 7/10
  
  The engine, tire, and ambient sound effects are great, but it was dissapointing how you could not 
 make a custom soundtrack.
  
  Value 9/10
  
  This game replay value is very good. I never get tired of playing it. I've restarted my file, and 
 played through it again, and it's still fun. This game is well worth getting.
  
  To rent, or to buy?
  
  I'd say just go out, and buy it. It's a great game, and is worth getting. 
 The cop chases, and exotic cars, are back. The only downsides are that there is no in depth tuning, 
 and the PS2 version does not have online capability. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bikedeman
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 23, 2005 11:15 am PT
Review:  I absolutely loved the game. everything on it was absolutely perfect except for one thing...
  ... Night Driving...
  i cant even begin to explain how dissappointed i was because there was only 
 day driving. who the heck races in the day? one of the things that made the underground serious 
 so good was the realistic night driving. Need for speed needs to come out with another version 
 just like this but with night driving. it just makes the game so much better.
  another thing i hated was as soon as the front corner of your car hit a wall, it immdiately turned 
 your whole car into the wall. and there was no way to get off the wall unless u use reverse. i 
 didnt like that at all.
  Besides these two problems, the gameplay was great.
  
  its just so unfortunate that the day driving ruined the whole theme of illegal racing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spaun1
Rating: 6.6
Date: Nov 23, 2005 10:50 am PT
Review:  The cop cheisings Rocks!
  BUT There is almost no parts to install on the car (not like it was in Underground2) and there is 
 also no night in the game (who racing at day?!) !
  I hope that next of NFS series will be more like in real life and it will contain more parts to 
 install (spoilers, bambers and more...) and there will be day and night !
  *sorry about my English
  !!!!!!! !!!!!!!!! !!! !!!!!!!! !!!!!! !!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!! 
 !!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 !!!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!! !!!!!! !!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!! !!!!!!!!! !!!!!! !!!! !!!!! 
 !!!!! !!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!! 
 !!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!! !!!!! !!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 !!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!! !!!!!! !!!!!!! !!!!!!! !!!!! !!!!! !!!!!!!!! !!!!!!! 
 !!!!!!!!! !!!!!!! !!!!!! !!!!!!! !!!! !!! !!! !!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: da_gr8_scorpion
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 23, 2005 9:45 am PT
Review:  ea has proven that they challenge everything to thier best and comes out with something unique 
 all over the other games dominating every racing game. there is not a single flaw as far as the 
 graphics and gameplay is concerned. i think this is the end of it.... nothing could be better than 
 this regarding nfs series.. if there is and ea is planning to give out something much better than 
 please send me some information about it.
  i salute them. u people rocks...
  one thing is worth disturbing that the sound is not up to the level of its graphics and gameplay. it 
 was much better in nfsud2. in nfsmw it looks quite artificial and this is a ping to all the ones 
 who editted the gameplay sound especially "engine sound"
  if u guys are planing out something which is not necessary now but if u guys are then keep my opinion 
 in mind.
  thanx... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RFNeo
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 23, 2005 7:31 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: I have to say this is the best in the series. Not only the REAL performance cars are 
 back, but you also have the added fun of being chased by the police. The money rewards, the performance 
 upgrades for your car, the different paints and the variety of vehicles that will appeal to all 
 tastes, make your game experience an enjoyable one. I do have a complaint about the game though. 
 When is EA going to put realistic damage on player cars? You smash your car into a tree or into 
 an 18 wheeler and all you get is a scratch on your paint? I know some people prefer the more arcade 
 style of gameplay the game offers, but perhaps EA should have put several difficulty levels where 
 you can have real damage on your car that affects not only the looks but the performance of it. 
 Police cars get destroyed, why doesnt your car?
  
  Graphics: Excellent. Environments are beautiful and highly detailed. Textures are really nice and 
 the variety of visual enhancements you can put in cars make you come back to the game wanting more.
 
  
  Sound: The sound effects are great. Different engines make different noise as in their real world 
 counterparts. The rest of the sound effects are pretty decent too and add realism to the whole 
 experience. The soundtrack has great songs and some not so great. I think it would be unfair to 
 rate it since it will all depend on your musical taste.
  
  Value: Well, the money making with the races definitely will give you some hours to enjoy this 
 game, since you will want to upgrade your car with all kinds of visual and performance enhancements. 
 The bounty level also adds replay ability to the game. Pissing cops off and raising your wanted 
 level gives you an extra edge. The only problem about the value of Need For Speed Most Wanted? 
 Well, its a racing game, and as all racings games it tends to be short lived. Multiplayer fixes 
 that somehow but still, its a racing game and no matter how different your car looks, its all 
 the same: going from point A to B and win more money.
  
  Tilt: I am not very found of arcade style racing games, but this one is really fun to play even 
 if its only for a couple of days.
  
  If you like the Need For Speed series, have even a small interest in cars or just want to be wanted 
 by the virtual police, you should buy this game. You will not regret it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nfspck
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 23, 2005 5:06 am PT
Review:  I love how the game returned to the roots of its game play with exotic imports and the cop. Wow, 
 the cops are what made NFS4 (High Stakes) my favorite game. Just the thrill off being pushed around 
 and busted is something I cant get over and missed in the underground mistakes. This game takes 
 it up to a whole new level but still has the thrills Ive come to know and love in the NFS series. 
 Playing the game is wonderful, the graphics are just amazing. It looks like they took some HHR 
 techniques from the Half Life 2. Which blows my mind how details and great the game really looks; 
 I still had a few issues with horizon images they look pretty choppy just like back in NFS4, and 
 there was tech problem where I tried to install but it kept launching underground so I had to uninstall 
 to play most wanted which threw me in a loop. When it comes to difficulty, wow some parts real 
 easy to wins the races, others not so much, but when it comes to some of the challenge races, the 
 cops are unbearable, the huge SUVs stop you in your tracks and your busted. But over all, I love 
 the game it definably a buy, keep, and enjoy for long time, heck I still play NFS4 but Im actually 
 put it down for this one, great job EA. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ssibal
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 23, 2005 12:40 am PT
Review:  be honest, is there any racing-game out there, that can mess with the need for speed series??
 
  most wanted is just the next installment, that leaves everything behind...
  
  did you like the police chases in hot-pursuit, did you like costomizing your car in underground, 
 did you like driving around in a free city, well this all happens in nfsmw, with a graphic that 
 blows everything away.
  
  additionally the story of the game is told in such a fancy way, that you feel more like playing 
 a movie.
  
  my advise: get it, install it, race it!!!
  
  sorry, for my poor english.
  
  greetz
  germany 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bansai
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 22, 2005 10:08 pm PT
Review:  To start, if you want, adrenaline, a lots of hours of entertainment, huge graphics, tuned cars, 
 and a good performance, this is your game.
  
  Need for Speed: Most Wanted, is a beautiful mix of need for speed hot pursuit, underground 1 & 
 2, which has new adds, beautiful graphics, cars, and story.
  
  Even the story is as good as the game, a mix of animation (cars and environment) with video (the 
 characters) , the first impression is "if the characters are simulated but then you realize than 
 its a video.
  
  Most wanted, has better control of the car, its more realistic, like the game, the pursuit is better, 
 with different levels, 1 easy, 5 extreme fun and hard, you start with just one patrol, and you 
 finish in a pursuit with 10 cars behind you, suv trying to ram you, and a frenzy helicopter pursuits 
 you. Its a incredible moment, in any time you get bored, thats is cause has to many things to get 
 fun, like the "speed tracer", police, races, etc. 
  
  Races, also a big point of the game, has a lot of new races, such as tollbooth, races who has the 
 best speed in the race, and the old's, drag, sprint, loops, and tht. 
  
  The blacklist is a easy way to make the story of "most wanted", in that part, its just right, don't 
 have too much changes with underground 1 & 2, speaking about career option.
  
  And a lot of things more than you have to test, buy now your Need for Speed: MW and you will be 
 not disappointing.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: streetleet
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 22, 2005 9:16 pm PT
Review:  This game is a very good racing simulator. It isn't too easy, has great gameplay, sounds just like 
 the real thing, extremely valuble and has gret graphics. This is ultimately the true racing experience, 
 since it is very real, as you will get chased by cops if you street race (If you don't believe 
 me, you can try) . The graphics put you in the driver's seat, the sounds are unique with every car 
 and race area, and overall the gameplay's storyline makes sense (most racing games don't even have 
 one) .
  
  Awesomely Awesome! I have the Black Edition and it just blows me away! A must buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vetteman24
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 22, 2005 7:38 pm PT
Review:  Game rocks. Great car selection and they handle realistically. Engine and shifting sounds are the 
 best I've heard in this series so far. Game is addicting . . . period. Awesome police AI is much 
 more of a challenge than previous versions. Police continue the chase and bring in faster units 
 and SUVs until you drive good enough to lose them. Speed alone does not lose the cops like in past 
 versions of the game. You have to learn to maneuver and evade. Graphics look fantastic on cars 
 and the rest of the fully destructible world. Buy this game and tear up the streets. Well worth 
 the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bandit_Jing
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 22, 2005 4:48 pm PT
Review:  NFSMW is the next installment ont he NFS series and its has to live up to the name... it has more 
 than just live up to the game. It Delivers awesome gameplay and graphics along with a kick A** 
 soundtrack.
  
  like every NFS game has its own soundtrack that belongs to it and is totally its own. Thats one 
 of key things in the NFS series that keeps its fan coming for more and more not only the fast cars 
 and customization and intense details.
  
  This game is surely in a league of its own and there will be no other game quite like this one. 
 Its combines the best of the BEST.
  
  The police pursuits from NFS: Hot Pursuit2 and all the Customization form the NFS: U series. This 
 is what I long for the combination of 2 of the best racing games out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Charbo00
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 22, 2005 11:50 am PT
Review:  I think his is the best need for speed in the series. It combines the customization of underground 
 with the cops and arcade-ish play of the older need for speed games. The graphics are good on pc 
 and it plays well with a keyboard and mouse or with a controller. It is long enough to keep you 
 playing for a while and the online is fun also. The cops can be pretty stupid at times and they 
 are pretty easy to overtake, but overall this is a great game. If you are a fan of underground 
 or the older need for speed games, you should definatly try this one out atleast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WoWFkA
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 22, 2005 11:13 am PT
Review:  Game is really fun, but is little dificult. So as you start at begining dificulty level isn't so 
 high, but later it rises and game become little iritating . Solution to this minus can be posibility 
 to change dificulty level :/ Bad that isn't chance to play as a cop. :| I relly would liked to 
 play as a cop and try to beat some "bad drivers" :) ) Graphics is amazing especialy Nitro effect 
 you fell like in a plane everything arround you is melting! And you than you can fell what feelings 
 goes to crazy drivers going city street 300 kmh. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_Pat
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 22, 2005 10:52 am PT
Review:  Im realy in love whit this game.
  
  Moi jprale po bien en anglais faque jvo crire en un bon vieux francais de chat du qubec :P
 
  
  
  ok bon moi j downloder ste jeux lo depuis le 20 novembre pi je bande quand je ji joue c trop 
 frais !!!!
  Je recomende serieussement ce jeux mais ... moi si jtais vous jel lacheterais po entk pour moi 
 sa vo po la peine d'acheter des jeux faque j downlode :P 
  
  pi si j crie ste texte lo stais po mal pq sam tentais de monter de lev pour le fun entk merci 
 d'avoir perdu votre temp a lire ce texte no wher
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dvdhl89
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 22, 2005 8:30 am PT
Review:  Here's another one of the Need for Speed series, the 9th, Need for Speed started from really great 
 roots, and this is the most impressive NFS game ever released.
  
  There are cops and supercars again, like every NFS had except from NFSU and NFSU2, this time with 
 tunning cars too, for Underground lovers, it's just like a mix of NFSHP2 and NFSU2 but with alot 
 of advance in gameplay, graphics, and alot of details. You can really feel the speed in this game, 
 and everything is more realistic, like the free roam mode, police pursues you when in highspeed, 
 property damage, etc. and no more never falling street lamps, as in past NFS series, where a street 
 lamp could stop your car.
  
  There's no physical damage on the racing cars since NFSU, only on cops ,but it still RULEZ!!!!!
 
  
  NFSHP and NFSU players will love this!! This game is worth $50!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: legumo
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 22, 2005 7:50 am PT
Review:  I will cry wolf, but....
  
  why in the name of the mighty GOD does EA don't put dashboards?!?!
  i loved Need for Speed 2 
 back in the 90's because i could see the dashboard and wheel, it was realistic, now in every NFS 
 you just see the road and that's it. : (
  
  but since this is just my own opinion, i have to admit since NFS Underground, EA nailed it..... unfortunately 
 i hated UNDERGROUND 2,
  it was confusing and lacked the responsiveness of NFS U1.....
  
  I bought NFS MOST WANTED - Black Edition, it's a fantastic game,
  the graphics, the responsive 
 controls, it's smooth on my Athlon64 + Nvidia 7800 GTX and the music it top notch.
  
  what is truly horrible in NFS MW and NFS U2 is the menu and options,
  EA should change that **** 
 orange colored in-game menu.
  
  as a whole, NFS MOST WANTED is the best NFS in the series,
  mainly because it includes excellent 
 NORMAL cars such as the BMW,
  RENAULT, FIAT PUNTO and so on. :)
  
  i love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nu_mak
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 21, 2005 11:15 pm PT
Review:  This game like the one's before it unsurprisingly hits the spot with its superb graphics, well 
 appointed music, appropriate storyline and state of the art graphics. It is without question a 
 game that will be played for hours non-stop, requiring alot of mental power to tell yourself to 
 stop playing for a short break. The main upgrade of this game is that it combines the cop chasing 
 play from the earlier NFS games into the modifying nature of the Undergroung series which makes 
 this game very unique. In short, this game will not dissapoint, being money well spent, and most 
 likely a game that your friends will continuously ask you if they some how don't have a copy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ghost777
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 21, 2005 8:26 pm PT
Review:  For reference I am playing the game on a Dual Core 4600+ with 1 Gb RAM and a Geforce 7800 GT OC 
 from BFG. My soundcard is the new gen Soundblaster XFi Pro ( the 200 dollar one.)
  
  This is without doubt the best game in the current generation of NFS games. The graphics are top 
 notch, the sound incredible, and the physics just as well honed as in the previous games in the 
 NFS tuner lineup. My main gripe is the unrealistic rubber band racing model. My secondary gripe 
 is your opponents Artificial Intelligence or A. I. for short. Thirdly is unrealistic physics interactions 
 in reference to your opponents.
  
  First the positives. The graphics are very crisp and clean. I am running the game with the graphics 
 fully cranked. Framerate on my PC is easily over 30 FPS if not 60FPS. I have no way to verify but 
 the smoothness of play suggests this. The cars and environments are very vibrant and you can easily 
 see what needs to be seen. Sometimes do to driver error there will be surprises that pop up in 
 front of you. I am not referring to graphics issues but more of come around a corner and there's 
 a car or wall you didn't expect. 
  
  The sound is spot on. I forgot a friend was do to arrive when he did ( mainly to losing track of 
 time. This game is really fun when not cheesy.) He was outside doing his normal revving of his 
 car to say come out and I thought it was coming from the game so did not notice it. He happened 
 to arrive just as a race was starting and his revs were about the same time as the vehicle revs 
 in game. Moral of this is I could not differentiate a real car from the game cars. 
  
  Another great aspect of the audio is the voice tracks used in the game. The voice overs while not 
 as good as japanese voice actors on anime's were still very good and believable. However the stars 
 of the audio show are the cop voices and radio chatter used. In a word BRILLIANT. It really felt 
 like I had a CB Radio tuned to the cops radio channel and felt like I was actually being pursued 
 by cops. Their chatter was spot on to what was happening in game.
  
  The physics are hard to comment on not because of them being bad but because I am used to real 
 world driving. I am used to my car or any car for that matter handling a certain way based on speed, 
 cohesion factor, and temperature of the road and air. This game does not give true feedback from 
 the car and you have to guesstemate everything. For the most part it is realistic in terms of what 
 you would think would happen but there are times, especially in a critical race, that things do 
 not happen the way you would guesstimate based on previous correctly guessed physics matters. This 
 however has been the plague of the NFS lineup in general. If you have played any of the recent 
 NFS games you are familiar with the way the engine works.
  
  Now for my gripes. I really hate the rubber band racing model used by your non police opponents. 
 While it is great when you are racing in an underpowered car trying to beat the big boys I find 
 it ultimately crippling. To me rubber band racing shows a lack of strategic planning. It is a given 
 to start off in underpowered vehicles which is to be expected but they should have you race opponents 
 that are within your class of racer. 
  
  Every opponent you race should be a specific car and driver combo that has specific racing capabilities. 
 This gives you reason to want to do well and upgrade your car. Point of reference, Forza did this 
 to perfection. Also the Gran Turismo games perfected this to. The way the rubber band model works 
 you can have a 130HP car race a 500HP car and still have a chance. This works fine in the minor 
 races when the rubber band effect is shorter but as soon as you get into the blacklist races the 
 model changes itself. In the blacklist races the band is doubled or tripled in length. Some will 
 say it is just more challenging which it is if they did it right. 
  
  I wouldn't mind the change if my opponents car stayed the same power and skill level. This leads 
 into my second gripe. The A. I. changes with the band effect when you upgrade your car. If upgrading 
 only made your car more powerful it would be fine but it also makes your opponents more powerful. 
 I noticed this when some opponents that had similar acceleration as me stock still kept up after 
 upgrades. I am talking similar A. I. cars not specific racers. Although a better reference is Taz. 
 Race him with a stock car and then a modified car and you will see his performance increase.
  
  Regardless of my car or power ratios my opponents were just as likely to win as lose. I got 
 faster and so did they. This is a good reason for a person not to upgrade figuring if I keep it 
 stock they will be slower and I'll stand a chance again. This does not happen. You are punished 
 for not upgrading by opponents in later matches increasing in power regardless. This falls under 
 theyou just can't win either waycategory of A. I. Like I said the Forza model was perfect 
 as you felt upgrading was worth it. Here it becomes why bother they'll be unrealistic anyways. 
 This poor model of racing is made even more aggravating by the way the physics model interacts 
 with you and your opponents.
  
  Case in point, obstacles on the road. If you smack a telephone pole your car loses some momentum 
 and at times some of its speed. If an opponent smacks a pole, even a thicker more likely to slow 
 a car down pole, they will be unaffected. I noticed this in my last race when I restarted a career. 
 I was racing Sonny and we were both at the same speed. Sonny smacks several poles and is still 
 with me. I smack one pole and Sonny manages to pull away. I am punished for hitting the pole but 
 the A. I. is not. This aggravated me so much I quit playing and started writing this review. 
  
  Overall I say the game is really worth having. Aggravating A. I. related problems aside it is 
 really fun. What makes the game worth it is the bounty modes and the challenges you can do. It 
 is so fun being chased by cops. I do wish you could be the cops. I am not sure if this is an unlockable 
 so do not want this to be seen as a negative. It is fun even if you can never be a cop but getting 
 to chase perps would be so much more fun.
  
  Bottom line the game is worth getting if you are patient enough to deal with in my opinion poor 
 design choices. There is a saying "why change what worksbut in racing games this games negatives 
 are just that, NEGATIVES. Real racers prefer realistic races. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acidflame
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 21, 2005 7:43 pm PT
Review:  Wow....
  
  I would say this is one of the best need for speed game ever made, the overall graphics have made 
 much improvement. Amazing story line to the game.
  
  This game has stopped me playing all my other favourite games. Its good that there's more cars 
 in this game.
  
  The only disappointing part of the game is that there's not much movie clips from the story..... there's 
 a lot of movie clips in the beginning of the game but later on, the only clip that appears is from 
 the introduction of the BLACK-LIST players.
  
  But at least this is the only Need for speed game so far that had some movie clips relating to 
 the story. My suggestion to the next need for speed game is would be is having more clips relating 
 to the story.... the clips should be pretty much in between every main event of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luutirake
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 21, 2005 4:55 pm PT
Review:  First ideas when i started nfsmw was like expecting underground + hut pursuit combination but most 
 wanted was so much more... First you start a some basic car ( like underground 1&2 ) ... The videos 
 shows few days actions and you just lost that bemor (bmw) and you need to start building reputation...
 
  
  there's a blacklist where is 15 drivers and the number one has your old car... you need to step 
 by step smoke all 14 drivers and then you can fase the number 1 who stoled you car... that big 
 mouth idiot =) what a elvis
  
  well quite simple concept but under the surface is more... when you start racing you see different 
 racing styles, a new ones comparing underground like toolbooth, speedtrap... of course some of 
 the old ones are still here, circuit, drag, sprint... but where is the drift, what no drift, yes 
 they have decided to leave drift racing off... that is a good idea because driftin at this game 
 where arent any real racing circuits and all the driving is done at the street with traffic and 
 of course the hot pursuits salt, POLICE! somehow drifting wouldnt match with this game so + to 
 that....
  
  i saw one video with that bwm and i was realy suprised with sound effects... well did i disapoint 
 at the real game, hell no...
  
  my first car fiat punto sounded like a normal car at beginning but when you installed lots of new 
 parts, under the hood comes real racng sounds and turbo voices witch i did beleave first to be 
 true... a great sound world, yet still better was ahead...
  
  i get a Ford Mustang GT at the first time, my mouth just went wide open... great muscle and monster 
 sounds, and with supercharger i just wanted to drive all night with mustang, those sound was so 
 manly and aggressive...
  
  thing called police, at the first i drove few races and i get first time my chase's / pursuit... 
 damn that was fun, the feeling that you get busted and you need to pay tickets and you car get 
 inpound after x amount of busted... yeah it seems to be easy at the start but little further the 
 pursuit was so difficult that i cant get rid of the cops under 8min...
  
  thet sticked behind me like a glue... but those pursuit were the best ones, high speed driving, 
 tight corners and you need to be very carefull no to get caught... Road blocks, what a pain in 
 the ass at he small cars....
  
  some times you ram 200 to the road block with fiat punto and your car just stop like on brick wall... 
 quickly reverse and night rider turn and away again.... but with mustang, oh man, 250kmh speed 
 and ram some police car at the block and you make your own way through, that is a big fun...
  
  well, police cars arent all that they got... they have helicopters and stuff.... well you know 
 what helicopters do... you just need to get some place to hide... some building where to get under 
 a roof so copter will lose you... but dont get those helicopters see where you drive or they call 
 backup....
  
  at the beginning the races are quite easy and you make a little money but there is not only races, 
 to challenge a next blacklist guy you need to complite some missions (challenges) ... example drive 
 fasy enough to radar, survive 5min pursuit, ram x amount of cop cars, evade x amount of road blocks, make 
 that pursuit cost x amount of dollars to the city etc...
  
  allthough the main thing is racing, these challenges are quite hard sometimes.... you need to have 
 x amount races and challenge to complete and x amount of bounty to challenge next blacklist driver...
 
  
  everytime you defeat some blacklist guy, you can decide 2 things what he/she need buy to you... 
 visual, performance, random stuff... get lucky and you win opponents car... these upgrades is available 
 at the tuning shops backroom....
  
  there is get free out jail passports and you can stick extra impound sticker to your car... yes 
 you get busted too many times with same car and they take your baby away... then if you dont have 
 a another car, game ends, **** happens... no matter if the another car is 100% stock, you just 
 need some ride....
  
  tuning... ah yes, like underground you can buy rims, spoilers, hoods, roof scoops... get sponsor 
 sticker, paint your car, get costum hoods, vinyls... new engine,  
 and many many more great stuff....
  
  but where is front and back bumpers and side skirts... nowhere, you can get any of these alone, 
 there is new thing, full bodykits with front and back bumpers and side skirts....
  
  all the new parts is available at tuning shops... and the are safe house where you can save game, 
 check new rivals, look at rap sheet, change car, pick a race/challenge and that kind of stuff....
 
  remember you cant enter a safe house before you have lost the cops....
  
  there are pursuit breakers like water towers that you can brake and create blocks to cops so you 
 get away.... when you have get safe and cops dont see you there is thing called cooldown, you need 
 to stay x amount of time hiding without beeing seeing to get the cops off your back 100%
  there is allways real hiding places marked on the map so you can get fully away faster that just 
 waiting just bedinh some tree or at the gold course XD
  
  the first impression at the driving was quite weard, the first car, bms feeled like boat, side 
 to side, left to right and right to left, i thinked this can not be like this, this is some bull.... 
 but things get better, its only that bemor what feels funny, the other cars handles better... every 
 car their own unique driving feeling believe it or not...
  
  at underground 2 was dyno run and you had a change to fine tune your toys,  
 in most wanted you have only slide bars... left side, middle and right side... you can set your 
  brakes only by moving that bar... that was 
 a big - in my eyes.... 
  
  at underground the coolest stuff was tune and pimp you ride to master bling bling, its really fun 
 in most wanted too but tease cops and drive pursuit is so much fun that it beats every other thing 
 in the game....
  
  there is so much more in the game what i didnt remember to write to this review but you see yourself 
 the rest.....
  
  this release is totally great racing / tuning game and years best car game if you ask me... you 
 just need to get your own game at stores and play.... this thing is addictive
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: death_likes_you
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 21, 2005 4:06 pm PT
Review:  The graphics are not as good as expected, yet it runs on a higher requirement. The environment 
 are made more specific, but it's not what the gamers would really want. It can be good, but best 
 if it doesn't take up as much space.
  The cars are detailed, nice texture, but not as much configuration can be done to the ride. There 
 are only sets, 4-6 sets of complete body structure. I guess the designers are getting lazy...
 
  The Level of the game is somewhat good, more variety of racing, such as speedtraps and so on.
 
  The cops are the pain in the arse, when you need them, they ain't here, but when you don't! 
 
  It's great considering you get to ride your BMW M3 for a while before it was taken. it's also 
 pretty disappointing but smart that you cannot buy a new BMW M3 during the game, otherwise what's 
 the point of getting in back?
  And the short clips from time to time makes it more attractive than the previous comic form. (But 
 I think Razor is not a good actor, he sucks in a way)
  Haha, so here it is, enjoy your game, it's a must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WilsonSR
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 21, 2005 3:40 pm PT
Review:  I've played the heck out of Underground and have been waiting for this installment for a while 
 now. 
  
  Finally got my hands on it and all I can say is WOW !
  
  The sense of speed, the sirens, the throaty sound of engines climbing gears... all of it is immersive. 
 
  
  The only thing I can't rave about is the almost blurry effect on the graphics. I know that you're 
 supposidly doing 110mph on city streets and I guess the graphics are tuned to recreate the motion 
 blur you'd experience. To me though, it looked like I was viewing the whole game though a light 
 fog / haze.
  
  Other than that, GREAT game if you love speed and like the idea ramming through police roadblocks 
 (in a game that is....) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: P1zzaman
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 21, 2005 2:00 pm PT
Review:  This game is in my opinion the best one out of the series. Although the customizations does not 
 go as in depth as underground 2, the overall presentation and feel of the game feels very authentic.
 
  
  The graphics are superb, from the trembling camera work to the blur effects and sun's reflections 
 of the world, it feels as if you are in a super charged car movie. Some of the effects however, 
 they could tone down, I sometimes find myself squinting to see clearly because of all the shiny 
 surfaces and the gloom effects. The graphics has a dreamy industrial look to it. Overall, it has 
 a more cinematic feel than the previous NFS. The cutsenes are entertaining to watch.
  
  The gameplay is nice. The feeling of speed definetely helps. The AI seems a bit shaky sometimes. 
 The cop chases are intense. It even comes with its own techno thriller chase music when they are 
 going after you. I would love to have seen an in car view though. Also from what I've heard you 
 cannot play as the cop in this one.
  
  The sound is nice too. Every object you slam your car into has nice multiple sounds. The music 
 is fast paced and fits the game well. 
  
  Overall, I am glad I purchased this game. I recommend this game to fans who like racing with an 
 attitude. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ares2001
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 21, 2005 1:47 pm PT
Review:  I think you need a racing wheel for playing it beside at least a 256 Mb ghraphic card.
  It is of the most amazing car racing game I have ever played. It has good story and everything 
 is perfect.
  But I have an ATI 9800Xt graphic card with 256 Mb of Ram but it is not enough for using the highest 
 quality and you encounter problem mainly in those parts which you see lots of tree.
  I would like to find out which graphic card is enough.
  the other thing I would like to say that 
 this obligatory 100 character is killing me and I am thinking of canceling the whole thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LOWkenshin
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 21, 2005 1:18 pm PT
Review:  Well ... what can I say ... I've been holding out on racing games for a very long time ... waiting 
 for that perfect racing game that will fulfill my every need for Hot exotics, wicked mods and fierce 
 PoPo chases.
  I didn't put to much expectations on the game ... so to my surprise when I downloaded the demo 
 I literally creamed in my jeans ... lol ... and went out and bought it the same day. Emplementing 
 bullet time was a fantastic move, storyline is pretty good ... cliche but works.
  Graphics and fps are silky smooth on my X800 ... I wouldn't play it on anything lower then that, 
 or else you won't get the "purity" of all that beautiful eye candy. At the end of the day ... this 
 game has rekindled my love for racing games. Kutos to EA for merging 2 very unique elements of 
 Street racing and Police chases to come up with a racer that will keep race lovers and enthusiest 
 busy making their cars pretty to play online and offline, aswell as aiming to achive the highest 
 bounty on their head. Tonnes of fun, so far I've had it for 2 days ... and really been trying to 
 win every race without being busted ... and so far out of the 3 rivals I've defeated so far I've 
 been fortunate to win the pink slips of 2 ... that's totally a hot element they added. Nothings 
 better then taking off with your opponents ride. heheh ... Cheers, and have fun ... see yah all 
 online ... and get ready to fork up your pink slips.
  Go and buy it right away ... especially the Black Edition ... great DVD shows for that added extra 
 value to a sure classic game to your racing game collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mort_subite
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 21, 2005 9:43 am PT
Review:  Wow...
  When I began to play the game, i was thinking that is another race game like the other... But i 
 was wrong... THIS IS THE BEST RACE GAME I EVER PLAYED....
  The new cars are great, who ever think in modify an Mercedez-Mclaren, or a New Dodge Viper...
 
  Also the police chases are the best ever made in a race game... it's not like in the others NFS 
 games, when they put a spiked belt in the floor and you get fu**, you have many options to run 
 away from the cops, like the Pursuit Breakers, or the shortcuts in the town...
  NFSMW it's the GREATEST of all race games ever made... You can buy without fear... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmksaved
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 21, 2005 6:47 am PT
Review:  I got the game 11/17 and it is addicting , I like how the game starts with a story line and how 
 you have to work your way back up to the top , that is somthing nsf has been missing , It was like 
 i was watching a movie and then i got to be in it . .. I played it late nights and over the weekend 
 and im about to challenge blacklist number 6. I got lucky and took away the porsche carrera S with 
 a pink slip . ever since then Im winning a whole lot . i always choose a unique performance upgrade 
 when i win , that makes the car faster , thats how I beat the slower once . a few bugs but got 
 around them by thinking how to do it ... there was a report of a bug when you choose 2 makers after 
 beating a blacklist member and it freezed up on one. 
  I was really ticked when this happend, I thought i had to restart but i decided to push the windows 
 button on my keyboard , it went back to my desktop and then i clicked on the nsfmw box and like 
 magic it was fixed i could choose that last one and go on about the game . I SAVED AFTER THAT , 
 make sure you do that , i dont know if it works everytime but it did 2 times for me. so nsf needs 
 to fix the bugs . also i hate have to drive to a part lot and then a car lot that is stupid . how 
 about make a dealership lot were you can look at cars and ugrade parts and perfromance in one place 
 . Great job on doing that with the parts shop with paint and everything in one place. i guess i 
 can live with just that . some tracks are too bright the sun blindes me, In real life its bad driving, 
 but dont do it too me in a game . if you do give me sun glasses 
  
  so overall a 9.5 , best racing game NSF had come out with and that I'v played . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: avi_boss
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 21, 2005 6:37 am PT
Review:  Just Awesome. Really Good and u havent played it then u havent played anything.  
 am Lovin it .GO and buy the game as soon as possible to have fun. I was in doubt that can i play 
 it but..... yahoo I can play it with fx-5500 and with beautiful  
 dhdfgdfdfhdfh dfh d dh dfhd hdhd dfh dfhdfh dhdhdfh dhdhdhdfhd dhdhd dhd dh xdfhd dh dh d dhd hdfhdhdh 
 dhd d hgfdgdgh dhdf fdhfdh dhdfhd dhdfh dhdf ddfhdf dfh dfhdfh hdfh dhdfh dfhfdh dfhdfh fdhdf dfhfdh 
 hd hdh d hd hd hd h dh dh dhdhdhdh dhdh dhdh dh dhdhd h dh dfh fdbn df bdf hgdf bdf bdf bdf hdfhh 
 th trh th thitf nnkfg nnkg nfgn kf nfg nfgn nk n nk nfgkn fghnfgh tf. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lipan03
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 21, 2005 6:33 am PT
Review:  Finally the time is come to me to play this game... hehehe
  So energic while the first time I got this game.. I'm be waiting so long since the NFS: Underground 
 2.
  This game amazing... great... and something that you can describe when you play this game... cops 
 in this game never give up to make me sick while I'm driving in the race. this thing always make 
 me crazy...
  Other thing the weather sudden changes while the racing.. so amazing... gameplay also improve, when 
 you had a crush or hit something it'll effect your stability, so don't ever to drive like sh**. 
 the car also take the damage too, hehehe.. it's time to crush the car...
  
  Anyway this the best ever of NFS. congratulation to EA for this game....:-)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gigi_leduke
Rating: 5.1
Date: Nov 21, 2005 4:42 am PT
Review:  It's nothing new, NFS Porsche Unleashed was the best in the series from then only some cheap rip-offs. 
 Even the Underground series where better than this. I think you should rent it first and only if 
 you really like then go buy it.
  
  The only new things in this game are the stupid cops and the sun light, the rest is Underground 
 with a new soundtrack and slightly better graphics if you have the machine to run that. My older 
 Athlon 64 is not upt to this only when I run a SLI with 2 Fx6600GT-Tops then the game runs better 
 at full graphics.
  
  The car respond slightly better than in Underground but the opponents car dont behaive normally.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zalkwalk
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 21, 2005 4:05 am PT
Review:  Impressive, Fast, Dangerous, Wild, Cinematographic No more words to describe it. The game assumed 
 the spirit of street racing style in all its aspects. All features look impressive. Playing with 
 police, in this game, became too much more funny and challenging than in hot pursuit. The cops 
 are much more smart this time. The scenario is much more interactive and rich in details, since 
 you can get inside of some buildings, break parts of the scenario to slowdown the cops and stuff 
 like. It seems REALLY open world (well thats what the demo version looks) . The new features look 
 fine and we hope that the blacklist mode doesnt will be disappointing or repetitive like in other 
 times (well sorry for the NFSU lovers but the old underground mode in some part of the game became 
 really repetitive...) . Graphics and menus make me remember of Burn out (?)
  and are very sharp, shiny and "movie style". The physics... looks fare (since that the game cannot 
 be classified as simulation...)
  
  This game will worth every cent of my pocket. I will really buy it. 
  
  Recommended for every 
 one who like cars, street racing or a good chase with the police.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ko_be
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 21, 2005 3:42 am PT
Review:  as i said above this game is crazy i have been inspired especially
  with graphics sudden weather changes all about environment
  damn good game , not good great oh 
 nooo as you heard
  i can't find word to say about this game
  
  bla bla bla bla bla bla and why does gamespot 
 want so many words
  because i can't find any words to say
  
  especially cops chasing is amazing , game is amusing all the way 
  and this is the most enjoying 
 game made until now in need for speed
  series as i indicated below gameplay is not 10 i think
  because you can't turn laps easily that's 
 not much important 
  
  
  
  this game is CRAZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZYYYYYYYYY 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2reddy
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 21, 2005 3:24 am PT
Review:  The developers must have worked really hard for this game. All fancy 32 cars and lots of new modifications 
 for cars... This game rocks. It is better than Underground and Underground 2. 
  
  There are cops in the street racing. They try to stop you. It not like the old NFS games. They 
 are dirty, and they are good at driving.
  
  Videos are perfect, too. They are the coolest racing game videos I've ever seen.
  
  Gameplay 
 is more realistic. Each thing you hit, affects your stability. The cars take damage too. It was 
 a big miss in Underground series. Now I love "totaling" my car. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vicecityfan1117
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 21, 2005 2:20 am PT
Review:  The addition of the police was really needed in the new underground games. This game is a really 
 good buy. Go out and buy it right now, I really recommed it to anyone who likes racing games, even 
 the slightest bit. Graphic are great and the sound and gameplay are also great. Story is pretty 
 good and the fact that there is actual actors in the cut scenes was really impressive. And just 
 to fill in the 100 word minimum. bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla 
 bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nojasoo
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 21, 2005 1:09 am PT
Review:  
  
  EA has been releasing the nfs series for quite some time now and until this point the pattern has 
 always been the same. This game is no exception. After having waited for the game for some time 
 and being fully aware of its progress the game really held no major surprises for me. It is, as 
 expected, a very enjoyable arcade racing game with very good graphics engine. As for the game itself, 
 Id just like to say, that it is incomplete...
  
  ... you see this when look at the "underground series" - the first part came out with fewer customizations, 
 cars, no replay feature and so on. I believe is the same case here. Most wanted is just a prequel 
 to an actual complete came that will hit the shelves some time next year probably. A game that 
 will have a full range of options, wider customizations and so on.
  
  ... now dont get me wrong here, it a great game as it is. Even the acting is slightly better 
 (though it usually is in games in awful) than in the undergrounds. I really like what they've done 
 with the feel of the car and open world design and even the new engine is just brilliant, it just 
 the small things that take away some of the joy - like not being able to watch my replays for instance. 
 So basically what I am trying to say here is that it is an excellent game from the general aspect 
 with a few little downsides but lets just give EA some slack coz they need sth "new" in 
 the next part of the game as well...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: knightofflame
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 21, 2005 12:39 am PT
Review:  Hmm , I played this game on a laptop with Pentium M 1.6Ghz , 512 MB ddr400 , with a radeon x600 
 128MB the game runs fine on medium settings ! This is the game I am looking for these time , I 
 even tried high settings althought there is a bit lag but still playable . Unlike F. E. A. R. , yes 
 it has a nice gameplay and it has nice graphic but my laptop can't handle even on 640x480 with 
 medium settings LOL .
  
  Most wanted had combine the concept of NFS hot pursuit 2 , underground 2 and street racing syndicate 
 and with some new stuff inside also .
  
  Argh... enough talking here LOL , anyway good game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phaiser
Rating: 7.2
Date: Nov 21, 2005 12:05 am PT
Review:  Ive been waiting for Most Wanted for quite some time now... and when I finally got it.... I was happy... that 
 was until I had my first few races. I cannot believe how the opponents can catch up with me so 
 easily, its really annoying, so annoying in fact that Im going to have to return it. I know that 
 some people will say ' Oh, its just because you cant race good in it!' and I have to agree with 
 them. But after playing it some more, I still cant see how anyone can get past some of those races. 
 I managed to get to the Blacklist no.10, and that is where I said I had enough. So no more career 
 mode for me. Now, Im just sticking with the GOOD part of the game, which is the pusuits. Although 
 even they can sometime be unrealistic, they sure are fun. So I guess even the cop chases alone 
 made me buy this baby. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: simonez
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 20, 2005 10:36 pm PT
Review:  I just finished playing nfsmw and I loved it! I've never played better and I think the live action 
 scenes are awsome! It's like an interactive comic book and the gujy playing Razor is perfect, great 
 acting, I wanted to beat him so bad I couldn't stop playing... nine hours later! The cop chases 
 are top notch and the free roam gives you time to hone your driving skills. Before attempting to 
 get your car back from Razor, Josie maran is a bad actress but good to look at so whatever, the 
 cops and razor rule!!!! have fun with this ride......... i love this game and I can't wait to play 
 it again. EA out did themselves!!!
  The acting scenes are awsome... the game is nothing short of perfect and of course by now you know 
 how much I dig Razor and the cops. I haven't played it on the 360 yet and I can just imagine how 
 superb that experience is going to be. So enjoy the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CereAlKillA_47
Rating: 7.2
Date: Nov 20, 2005 8:48 pm PT
Review:  I mean.... Single Player is pretty good... with Milestone and Bounty events,
  the game offer a good rush of adrenaline with them pursuits and speedbraker but, when i played 
 online... There was no cops and I couldn't use the slow-mo. The Online ambience was totally different 
 then career mode. I was really dissapointed ... I buy it because i fought that playing online would 
 be great... I was wrong. They even took out great mods from NFSU2 that make your cars different 
 from each other. Still, Need for Speed Most Wanted is One of the best from the series... But like 
 every NFS... i'll get bored quick
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dustinian
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 20, 2005 7:54 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game, its only downfall is that you have to do a lot of racing before you get the 
 cool cars....
  
  Ups:
  The graphics are incredible on X-box or PC (havent tried PS2) 
  The music is chill.
  Very addicting, be ready to waste hours!
  
  Downfalls:
  Takes a long 
 time to get the really cool cars. (I'm impatient)
  The videos in the career mode are pretty silly, the acting is poor, but that is standard for video 
 games.
  
  I put this at the top of my list for "Best Racing Games"
  A must buy for any fans of the series
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ghossst
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 20, 2005 6:35 pm PT
Review:  First of all, I'd like to say that I've been playing NFS MW for 2 days now and haven't finished 
 it yet, but what I can say it's that it has a great game-play: it's much better than all of its 
 predecessors (NFS Underground 1&2) . The slow-motion hand-brake is extremly useful and the game 
 would be quite difficult without it. The graphics of this game are absoluteley mind-blowing because 
 of the light that is superbly well renderized and when its dusk or dawn and the sun is positioned 
 right in front of you, you barely see the road. The cars are very well detailed and the reflection 
 is perfect. The sound is quite good: the engine sounds are realistic and the music is good but 
 Ive noticed that some of the tracks are present in the Burnout Revenge OST and therefore 
 NFS MW lost some originality points right there; but thats not the thing that annoyed me 
 the most which are THE BUGS !... the game shouldnt have been released before EA found 
 the solution to all of this game's bugs. Let me show you a list of all the bugs that Ive 
 found to this day:
  
  - sometimes, after you beat a black-list racer, when you may chose your reward, the square that 
 you have to be able to control is stuck to only one reward, so you can chose the one thats 
 stuck to and then you have nothing else to do than quit and re-race the blacklist racer [if you 
 saved before racing him/her] ; 
  
  - another bug is when you enter the shop and cant buy any of the products in there. This 
 has happened to my brother right after he started the game;
  
  - and finally, the third bug is that you cant chose the first 3 rewards and can only chose 
 the other 3, therefore you cant obtain the pink slip and get the other black-list racers 
 set of wheels. This bug has happened to a friend of mine.
  
  I hope that a patch will be developed soon so that these bugs can be fixed.
  
  In the end, 
 ignoring all the bugs and negative aspects of the game, Id like to add that NFS MW is one 
 of the best racing game that Ive ever played and that its a game definitely worth 
 playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: samuraislash
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2005 5:36 pm PT
Review:  Great graphic and gameplay. Adept from NFS Underground with custom part and tuning system. A lot 
 new world class car. The Best for multiplayer game. Nice soundtrack that pimp you up. 
  
  Monza, September 5, 2005 - The signing ceremony for the host city of World Cyber Games (WCG) 2006 
 Grand Final  the world's largest computer and video game festival  was held today at the Autodromo 
 Nazaional Monza, best known as the racing circuit for the Formula One Italian Grand Prix. 
  
  The signing ceremony follows the official announcement of the host city made in August 2005, 
 when Monza was selected by the WCG Committee as the first European city to hold the Grand Final 
 after a competitive bid process involving four city candidates. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sendo-x
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 20, 2005 2:29 pm PT
Review:  Who ever knew that being wanted by the police could be so much fun? Well in this installment of 
 NFS they mix the good old fun of "Hot Pursuit" and the "Underground" series. 32 cars to choose 
 from (most of which need to be unlocked) and a bunch of hidden goodies such as spoilers, bodykits, 
 rims, etc. The gameplay does feel a bit easyer to the vets of both "Underground" and "Hot Pursuit" 
 titles, the game does mix a few things up to throw you off such as the AI trying to ram you into 
 the walls or whats even more surprising, box you in. The music fits in nicely with such artists 
 like: Bullet for My Valintine, The Prodigy , and others. If anything the music makes you want to 
 go out, jump in your own car and start a rukus.... though thats not reccomended :D. Graphics are 
 up to date and actually makes you wonder if all those actors are really that beautiful... all in 
 all this game will keep you busy for sometime before you get bored of it :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shreveswat
Rating: 9.9
Date: Nov 20, 2005 11:28 am PT
Review:  Need For Speed Most Wanted
  Screeching tires flashing lights and over 400 horses under the hood, and thats just the police 
 cars chasing after you. Need for Speed Most wanted is the latest racing game from the Electronic 
 Arts need for speed team.
  Most Wanted is a combination of the Underground and the Hot Pursuit series from EA. From the underground 
 series they bring back all the customization you could ask for, and from the Hot Pursuit series 
 they bring back the police cars and choppers.
  Most wanted has all of the customization of underground with all of the tinted windows, rims, gauges, 
 paint, vinyls ,and much more. You make your own custom car from the body kit to the paint color 
 then go up against all of the other people within the game that have there own fully customized 
 car.
  The folks at EA have brought back the police cars from need for speed Hot Pursuit one and two that 
 we all know and love but with some upgrades. While you play through the game while your car gets 
 better the police cars get better. While you get better at the game the police tactics increase 
 to try to keep it even. The police are one of the best parts of this game because they make the 
 game more real and exciting. The only problem is that the cops in this game arent very smart, 
 but what they lack in smarts they make up in numbers and brute force.
  The graphics in Most wanted are amazing the detail on youre, the opponents, traffic, and police 
 cars are amazing. The detail on the road signs and builds are very realistic as well. Most wanted 
 is also a very smooth game during the entire time I played I didnt get any lag time or skips from 
 the game. The load times are surprisingly short and have some information to help you out in the 
 game if you feel like reading them.
  Probably the most important part of a game like this is the CARS. Most Wanted pulls through in 
 the category with a long list and fancy, stylish, and powerful cars to choose from. There are over 
 30 different cars in this game including Porsche, Mercedes, Mazda, Ford, Audi, Aston Martin, and 
 more.
  There are the same types of races from Underground like circuit, sprint, lap knockout, and drag 
 but there are a few knew ones like tollbooth and speed trap.
  The new ranking system is The Blacklist which is the 15 most wanted street racers by the police. 
 To challenge up the black list you must meet certain milestones and challenges set by the blacklist. 
 These might include circuit, drag, lap knockout, tollbooth, speed traps or sprints. The blacklist 
 also sets different police challenges you must do like have a certain amount of bounty on you are 
 cause so much damage and have a however long chase.
  The online has been much improved from the days of the laggy and some what annoying underground 
 2. The lobby is much easier to get around in and the races arent as laggy and with fewer dropouts.
 
  Overall Need For Speed Most Wanted is a great game with great visuals a long list of sweet cars, 
 and fun and fast pasted races. I highly recommend and go by this game for any of the systems out.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: w0rmy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 27, 2005 9:10 am PT
Review:  After playing the demo for a few days I was ready to shell out the money for this game and I'm 
 very picky! I was still skeptical until I got it home and installed it. Within a few minutes I 
 knew it was money well spent! This game is really fantastic! It been years since I've enjoyed a 
 new game this much. I'm generally not into driving games but this game really takes it to a whole 
 new level. 
  
  The game starts with a rather long intro that sets up the story but then it's pretty non-stop action! 
 The "Free-Roam" can be a little confusing at first but once I realized you can return to a "Safe-House" 
 and pick challenges there, everything moved faster. The good thing about Free-Roam is that it gives 
 you a chance to learn the roads which is really critical for winning some challenges and races.
 
  
  The overall gameplay is excellent! Cars are easy to drive and control, and feel and sound very 
 much like the real deal! The game is very addictive! I found that even after playing for hours 
 I didn't want to stop! 
  
  My only real complaint is the Menus. The interface could be better. Moving around it takes more 
 time than it should and can be a little confusing at times. A small price to play for an excellent 
 game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D5120
Rating: 6.3
Date: Nov 20, 2005 8:31 am PT
Review:  Ive played and completed most of the other Need for Speed games. This one is average. Yes theyve 
 updated the graphics, does look good. However, its all been done before. They seem to have combined 
 NFSU & NFS Hot pursuit. Initially a good idea, but get too samey too quick.
  
  Also all the additions they added to NFSU2, the modded lights, neons, spinners, Where have they 
 all gone? Also I loved the bit before where you could mod your boot, slam a couple of large subs 
 in there and a fire extinguisher.
  
  Now to the story, at the beginning, I though, cool, cinematic story line, which really gripped. 
 After that, it went back to the old text/answer phone message ? If only theyd of continued with 
 the cinematics , it may have kept me interested a little longer.
  
  Dont get me wrong, this is an enjoyable game, looks great and the sound effects are fantastic, 
 but after the first dozen races and the first couple of times you knock over the donut or the water 
 tower its the same & same again.
  
  I will see the game through till the end, but thats just so I can say Ive done it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lule_vets
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 20, 2005 12:41 am PT
Review:  Igra o sam demo verziju od 544 MB. Za pocetak sta da se kaze igra je odradjena na nivou sve je 
 odradjeno do detalja. Mape se voze i danju sto je bolje nego u prethodnom delu ima jurnjave pandurima 
 to je i dobro i lose, dobro je zato sto je ponovo oziveo onaj stari need for speed, a lose to sto 
 ih je previse. Zvuk je perfektan muzika takodje. Grafika je toliko dobro odradjena da to nije zdravo 
 igrati mapa je isto detaljno uradjena precica ima dosta. Posebno me odusevio SLOW MOTION mod i 
 nitro kada ukljucite BLUR vam sada lepse prikazuje osecaj za brzinu mada se to bas i neugradjuje 
 u neke modele automobila u igri kao na primer PORSCHE ili ASTON MARTIN. To mi je najveca zamerka 
 u igri sve sotalo je uradjeno do savrsenstva. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jaybbq
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 19, 2005 9:16 pm PT
Review:  What do you expect from a good driving game?:
  
  -Realistic physics and controls
  -good graphics and sounds
  -free to acquire new cars and upgrade them
  -possibility to change 
 the design of your cars
  
  Need for speed: most wanted have all this features, with some other good points like a simple, but 
 interesting campaign story, intense action police chases and a great balance between your cars 
 upgrades and the level you are in the game (maybe to keep the challenge during the entire game) .
 
  
  Even if you don't like driving games, try this one! You could be surprised to cannot stop to play! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aljaf
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 19, 2005 8:51 pm PT
Review:  Ever since it began, the NFS series has undoubtedly been one of the most popular on the PC platform. 
 It's a trait that many developers would die for - who hasn't heard of a game that's disappointed 
 with a series of sequels? (Tomb Raider immediately pops to mind.) So how does EA and the Need For 
 Speed team do it?
  
  Simple. They listen. 
  
  Nearly every single game in the NFS series has taken the parts we loved from the previous edition, 
 cleaned them up and put them in the new one. They took out the bits we weren't too keen on, but 
 instead of just dumping them they've listened to the complaints and made them better. 
  
  Hot Pursuit and Hot Pursuit 2 were milestones. As were Underground and Underground 2. The police 
 elements in the first two were groundbreaking but a little rusty at times, particularly in HP2. 
 And the ability to modify your own car, and (in the second installment) find your own races by 
 exploring the city you race in made the Underground series even better.
  
  But I don't think any of us expected NFS to combine the two. They did. And now we have what is, 
 by far, the best Need For Speed ever. In fact, it's the best racing game for the PC. 
  
  Let's start with the career. We all thought that the Underground careers were a little sloppy, 
 a little cheesy. The comic book cutscenes seemed low-budget. The story felt a bit weak. And of 
 course, Brooke Burke trying to be "street". It put a dampener on the whole game.
  
  In Most Wanted, you're faced with a much more acceptable, more believable challenge. You're faced 
 with the task of ascending a Blacklist, a list of 15 racers in Rockport - your new stomping ground. 
 (Speaking of which, the developers describe this city as being based on the East Coast - with Maine, 
 New England and New York morphed into more race-friendly settings.)
  
  But instead of just chasing after these blacklist drivers, you need to get noticed. How? Not just 
 by winning races, which are more varied than before. You also have to raise your "bounty", which 
 resembles the reputation points in Underground 1 and 2. Your bounty increases when you break laws 
 and smash police cars in chases - there's a myriad of opportunities to increase it. 
  
  And, for once, the look of your car DOESN'T affect your standing. Thank goodness. What it does 
 affect is your wanted level - different from your bounty, but as your bounty increases so does 
 your heat with the police. As you move up in wanted levels it becomes harder to shake the police, 
 and the Cooldown period (after succesfully evading police, you have to stay out of sight for a 
 varying amount of time before continuing) becomes longer.
  
  In yet another stroke of genius, you can reduce your wanted level by - logically - changing what 
 your car looks like. If the police are looking for a blue Mercedes SL500, and you drive past in 
 a black Merc with a different spec body kit, they won't notice you. This isn't without its flaws 
 though - even a slight change in colour, i. e. changing the tint, has the same effect as a completely 
 new hue on your car. I would've thought the police wouldn't notice much difference between two 
 barely-different tones of red, but as it turns out you can get away with this.
  
  No more fiddling about with different combinations of bumpers and side-skirts - each car has a 
 choice of four or five unique bodykits which include widebody mods, bumpers, side-skirts etc. Once 
 you've picked one you can then choose a spoiler, a hood, roof scoops and rims. In the visual department 
 you have the usual paints, vinyls, window tints and decals.
  
  In the performance department, it gets really good. The higher-end cars only accept huge upgrades, 
 and there are plenty of them. Again, there are variations for different cars - the Mercs, for example, 
 don't take Turbo - only superchargers. I have to admit disappointment here, though, because I don't 
 agree with fitting nitrous to a Murcielago. It's fun but should these cars really need upgrading?
 
  
  The race variations take the best of the best from previous editions of NFS. You have the standard 
 circuits, sprints and drag races (which haven't changed much) , and then they've taken a time-trial 
 and turned it into a tollbooth timetrial. How does this one work? You need to drive through a series 
 of tollbooths with a time limit between each one. Lap knockouts have returned as a race of their 
 own (Underground merely had the option to make single races into knockouts, and they weren't available 
 in careers) , and drifts and Street-X races have disappeared. In their place NFS has introduced 
 Speedtrap races, where the objective is to drive through each speedtrap as fast as possible with 
 your individual speeds through each being totalled and counted as points. Much like the drift system.
 
  
  You're also given milestones to complete, like running from police for a certain period of time 
 while evading X number of roadblocks and disabling Y number of police vehicles. 
  
  The cars are a fantastic mix from previous games - street racers and supercars blended together. 
 It's always satisfying to beat a Porsche with a Mazda. But the lack of more impressive brands - 
 Pagani, Ferrari, Jaguar - does leave you wanting.
  
  Unless you're really strapped for cash - get Black. The DVD is OK but the bonus cars are fantastic, 
 ranging from a Mercedes SL65 AMG to a Chevy Camaro SS, quite simply the prettiest car in the entire 
 game. Unfortunately you can't upgrade them, but they still provide a great experience.
  
  The gradually increasing difficulty in the game is good - you shouldn't be presented with a series 
 of dead-easy or dead-hard races to just breeze through/tear your hair out over. 
  
  And of course, the free-run aspect has been polished with a much larger world to explore than in 
 Underground 2. But the day still beckons when we'll be able to drive through a world as vast as 
 GTA: San Andreas offers with the amazing cars and features presented by Most Wanted.
  
  It's best in series, but then all previous NFS games have been. They just keep getting better and 
 better.
  
  I can see this game becoming one of the most sought-after this holiday season. But then, it's Need 
 For Speed. Why wouldn't it be? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingstbr
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 19, 2005 6:26 pm PT
Review:  this game is one that made me uninstall need for speed underground 2, the graphics are as good 
 as your pc can cope with, as mine can cope with it all, this game runs blisteringly fast on an 
 intel celeron d 330 2660.6 mhz cpu and an ati 9100 windows xp, and 512mb ram, i just started playing 
 it the othr day an i played it solid since, im up to black list level 11 an done about 6 chalenges, 
 this is the game "haters" will be **** about for ages saying its crap when they probally havent 
 even played it, anyone who has played need for speed underground 1 or 2 will love this, iv read 
 about people complaining about fmv's WHYYYYYY tthis is a game not a video we wanna play not watch 
 it... this is the ultimate game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dryden555
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 19, 2005 2:40 pm PT
Review:  Essentially this is Need For Speed Underground 3 with the tracks in daylight rather than nighttime. 
 The whole game goes for a realistic look to the tracks and cars, but at the same time it plays 
 like an arcade game with goofy video-cutscenes in between the races.
  
  Now the gameplay is perfectly fine but it is nothing special either. Dont believe the 9 and 10 
 reviews.
  
  For me, I would have much prefered more distinctively varied and less realistic tracks like those 
 in NFS 3 and 4. THOSE were great and memorable race tracks. 
  
  In this game, the tracks are fine but not one of the tracks is memorable. 
  
  Also for PC folks, 
 there are some video options to reduce some of the bloom and blur effects, but none of those options 
 gets rid of these annoying effects completely. This is a driving game and all of the blurriness 
 at the sides is a gimmick that simply gets in the way of seeing sharp-turns that you need to make. 
 The bloom-effect fetish among game developers has got to stop! 
  
  Also, the road and roadside textures look suspiciously low-res. Running the game at 1280x1024 only 
 makes it more apparent that some of these bitmap textures were meant for the lower-res of the consoles.
 
  
  The cars look nice. That's one thing the game has going for it.
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: slacker126
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 19, 2005 12:25 pm PT
Review:  I've been a valued customer to Electronic Arts games and have followed the NFS series all the way 
 from the first release oh so many years ago. I didnt quite know what to expect from Most Wanted 
 but i got everything i wanted plus so much more. The combination between having to win your races 
 and dodge the police or sometimes having to do both at the same time is simply flawless. The gameplay 
 is solid and i enjoy a lot of the new race types particularly the "tollbooth races". My main problem 
 with the game and probably the only problem that i found was that the graphics just didnt seem 
 to be up to par with what i thought they SHOULD have been. there was no option for HDR but instead 
 a cheesy overbright which is okay but not quite cutting it. Also, i have been reading that EA purposely 
 backed down on textures and quality on the PC version to make sure the new XBOX 360 has the advantage 
 with effects and/or graphics in general. Either way, the game kicks A$$ and i reccommend everyone 
 that enjoys driving games to go buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: siwongo
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 19, 2006 6:57 am PT
Review:  I haven't got the game jet but i'm just ordered it and i cant wait the demo is so amazing the cars 
 are great and the graphics are top noch when i get the game i don't no how i'm goin to stop playin 
 and from what everyone else has said wow. The only prob is the music i read the song list on the 
 web and i only like 3 songs on it cause i hate things like rap r&b and the rest of that the only 
 things i like on it is bullet for my valentine, distubed and Avenged Sevenfold so i think in the 
 next one you should be able to put your own songs on the game like gt legends which makes the game 
 even better.
  
  Now i've got the game had it 4 2 months hate it very very poor 
::::::

::::::
UserName: siimsib
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2005 10:11 am PT
Review:  When you want to play a great racing game, then nfsmw is made for you. For me, the new Need For 
 Speed game is the best of nfs series. Mostly i like that the cops are back and ready to pursuit 
 you. The car speed is also amazing and when you play it, the picture like skips through your eyes. 
 The third thing i like, is that there are hiding places where you can get rid of the cops. You 
 got to buy it, or you are going to miss one of the centuriest best racing game. Buy it right now! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ccrathe
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 19, 2005 9:13 am PT
Review:  NFS: Most Wanted is truly an amzing game. When EA anounced it and inofrmation was coming out about 
 the gameplay and i realized it will be somewhat of a spinoff of the Underground Series, i was a 
 little dissapointed. I was a fan of the real old school NFS game which were all about fast exotic 
 cars driven out in the open. What made this game so good in my opinion is its great car lineup 
 of classic tuner cars and some high proced exotics as well. This all mixed into a huge open enviornment 
 with close quarters urban roads and some wide open highways makes this game a winner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NIGHTHAWKAK47
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 19, 2005 8:25 am PT
Review:  Hey y'all this is my first review i have ever done so hope u will like it . NFSMW is the best racing 
 game ever it even equals burnout revenge with the adrenaline rush . The graphics are just the best 
 yet applied to a racing video game and the handeling wich is tilting more from episode to episode 
 to the arcade genre . well i played it and what beets to have a BMW M3 GTR with god damn nos and 
 turbos , and needless to mension the lambos and the porshe and the mercedes and the aston martins 
 and last but not least the all mighty slr . for those of you who gave the game less than a 9 you 
 seriously have a lack of taste in gaming because this game beats them all . but in the end every 
 gamer has his own choices and i think we all agree on that . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spy_of_chaos
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 19, 2005 6:57 am PT
Review:  OMG! It's one oh the best racing games I played. Very customizable cars and amazing races. Very 
 good tracks its totaly awsome! This game supports every features of a racing weel including force 
 feedback when on rough ground or craches. This game is a must for any serious racing gamer. If 
 you want to buy the game, whait a wille (week or two) for the limited Black edition to be released. 
 Black edition will offer stuff like new tracks, decals, cars & more! It will feature a bonus DVD 
 that will feature videos and the making of... Need For Speed: Most Wanted brings you back to the 
 clasic series of need for speed (before the underground series) by offering police cars so you 
 can once more have fun with the law in high speed chases! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gear_06
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2005 4:59 am PT
Review:  The game is super cool, the free roaming is fun too just like in nfs underground 2, there are alot 
 of cars too and the tunings are cool aswell. 
  Finally there is car damage too which wasn't available in the previous need for speed's. The blacklist's 
 i find fun too, basically as mentioned before every single aspect of the game is fun. There is 
 only the fact that in this game you dont have the option like in underground 2 to find a guy and 
 just race against him, but it's still a great game.
  
  I recommend it to anyone worth the money 
::::::

::::::
UserName: popescupaul
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2005 4:57 am PT
Review:  Its just State-Of-The-Art!
  
  This game gives us everything we wants from an arcade game. The adrenaline, the break of the law, 
 the speed, all these on the superb graphic engine, make from NFSMW a very playable game. The freedom 
 of game play its very good and the street directions are good simulated. The rays of lights are 
 superb and also the reflection of police cars lights on your own car.
  Im a very curios regarding the next few years. What kind of NFS well play? What will be invented 
 in this genre of game? Can you imagine? Because Im not! 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: p232
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 5, 2005 11:51 am PT
Review:  Its a great game with a mix betveen hot pursuit and underground 2. Its great! I like spesial the 
 free roming around the city, witch also waas in nfs u2, and that you finally can tune som real, 
 cool, fast cars! Its really cool, and you also get a good speed feeling. Its a great game, and 
 its worth its money, i really recommend its, espeasally to those who liked nfs u2.
  
  You won't be wasting your money on this game!
  
  Its a great game with a mix betveen hot pursuit 
 and underground 2. Its great! I like spesial the free roming around the city, witch also waas in 
 nfs u2, and that you finally can tune som real, cool, fast cars! Its really cool, and you also 
 get a good speed feeling. Its a great game, and its worth its money, i really recommend its, espeasally 
 to those who liked nfs u2.
  But one of the big thing thats bad of this game, is the tuning part. Im sure that can't do half 
 of the tuning things you can do in nfs u2. Exs: You can only change the hole body part, and not 
 piece by piece like in u2. So this game could need some fine tunings, but it still great!
  
  
  You won't be wasting your money on this game!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: b_x_ray
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2005 2:09 am PT
Review:  its really the best nfs in the series and one of the best driving games ever made... everything 
 looks great ... when u play it u can really feel driving in ur own car and u will be excited a 
 lot .... this is a game that can make u believe ur not just playing a simple game ... the soundtracks 
 are great and put u in game ... the graphic is marvelous ... the gameplay is excellent and the 
 gameplay is just perfect .... in a word everything is perfect and well organized by EA... we can 
 add an exciting story to all of the above .... superbbbbbbbbbbbbb 
::::::

::::::
UserName: squadup5008
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 18, 2005 11:32 pm PT
Review:  The game is soo sick that when people play it they will explode. This game is beyond perfect. I 
 just coped the game and i cant stop playing. My homeboy had to go to the hospital because he exploded 
 when he played this only i can handle it so far. Their is no racing game better than this. For 
 real. Think about is what racing game causes people to explode when thay play it. Come on man its 
 just to sick. You have to be a serious gamer to handle this. If u want to get the full effect get 
 the xbox 360 or a sick PC with a Sick graphics card also a flat screen or some sort of high definition 
 monitor. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deadlyboy
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 18, 2005 11:15 pm PT
Review:  Truly unbelieveable. I was waiting for this game for so long and now its released. This game is too 
 good. This game is extremely exiting game with high police chases. The gameplay is really exiting 
 than the other need for speed games. The grapics in this game is very good. There is a blacklist 
 tournament, a top-15 ranking list that lets you know who the most notorious racer in Rockport is. When 
 you drive your car very fast, it becomes blurry and looks good. There are some cars which can go 
 under the trucks. There is a little bit damage. Your career mode goal is to work your way to the 
 top of the blacklist and take out Razor, who has used your old car to get to the top spot. You'll 
 have to take on each member of the list, one at a time, but you'll also have to prove yourself 
 by completing a series of races and other milestones before you can face off against a Blacklister. 
 The races are standard and come in a few different varieties. Circuit races and sprints are as 
 basic as they come. Knockout races eliminate the last-place racer at the end of each lap until 
 only one remains. This racing game is fun. The police are a major presence in Most Wanted. They'll 
 occasionally appear in the middle of a race, which makes the races more hectic and exciting. But 
 the real excitement comes from engaging in police chases outside of races. If you want to stay away 
 from cops, you have to evade and hide in a place that police can't see you... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zoraak
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 18, 2005 8:37 pm PT
Review:  I simply did not expect that this sequal will surpass the rest of NFS series, and yes even the 
 Porsche Unleased one.
  
  This is an amazing racing game. great cars, sense of speed and very well designed tracks. Then 
 there is the cops and their chatter which is another game all together.
  
  Get a gamepad relax, play your favoriate music at the background and drive at 200mph while cops 
 chasing you!
  
  Must have racrer for any racing fan
  
  Porsche Caymans is the best all rounder car in this game, and make sure once you won it, keep it, 
 upgrade its performance and it will not let you down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: britneyyy
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 18, 2005 3:24 pm PT
Review:  Great come back of hot pursuit NFS. Great combination of NFS underground series and earlier NFS 
 hot pursuit series.
  Incredible good atmosphere , heartbreaking adrenaline scenes and 100% action all the time.
  When 
 you launch the game you'll get the impression as you are actor in action hot pursuit movie.
  Excellent 3D rendering graphic , changing of weather conditions, special effects seems to be like 
 you are in dream.
  Great music maybe lot a like NFS underground series.
  Great phisics of driving.
  There are lot of cars in it like russian new LADA to Ferrari , Porsche
 
  Mercedes new Mazda an others.
  Maybe is little boring like in NFS undergrund tracks looks the same.
  
  If you wanna be the 
 actor in action movie with HOT PURSUIT this is it!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bougdi
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 18, 2005 2:55 pm PT
Review:  Yes., a mixture but still it misses `da cool` elements from nfsug 2.. there aren`t any neons.., 
 spinners., doors, mirrors, body kit replaced the front spoiler...., u can`t customize ur headlights... But 
 all these doesn`t make the game uglier.. but it makes u loose all that passion for finding new parts 
 and personalizing ur ride.. I noticed the very high speed sensation... it`s thrilling... i love 
 that a lot... and the car reflections are very realistic... also the traffic is better made... has 
 better details... AND the thing with breaking ur car... is stupid... because.. when u enter the shop 
 or any of ur utilities the car autorepairs... and u nevver feel the damage.. agreee.. or disagree. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: banikid
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 18, 2005 12:10 pm PT
Review:  This game is sweet!!! My uncle got it for me thie morning while i was at school (thanks god it was 
 half a day) I been playing since noon. I can't stop playing it the grapic are good the gameplay 
 is also good. The sounds sound real. If you have surround sound it feels like if you are in the 
 car. This is a game to buy. I got it for xbox cause ps2 sucks ( no offense ps2 lovers) Can't wait 
 till the next needforspeed comes out cause if this game was this great the next one is going to 
 surprise us all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Misty2kittie
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 18, 2005 10:02 am PT
Review:  My goodness...
  
  This game by far is one of the best car games out there yet.
  For me being a chick and my attention span like of a fly, 
  It was easy enough for me to get 
 a hang of it, the style and smoothness of the game is great, not to mention the cop chases; that 
 is an instant classic. The cars are hot, and the storyline seems to keep me wanting to play more.
 
  
  You don't get the sense the world is prefixed like the other NFS series, which I think is great, 
 Over all I really like this game. 
  
  All in all, this game will make you wanting to come back for more.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vidder
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 18, 2005 6:11 am PT
Review:  This game is by far the best in the series and definitely has lots of replay ability. I just got 
 the game yesterday and already have gone through the first three Blacklist members. The Cops, in 
 essence, are very silly and almost FORCE you to destroy their vehicle so they're unable to pursue 
 you further. The Police pursuits can pop-in during almost any race, except those against a Blacklist 
 member, and add a new element to your race. They can either take out the three other racers for 
 an easy win, or run you off the road for a terrible loss. As far as gameplay, if you've played 
 Need for Speed Underground 1 & 2, and were somewhat decent, you'll only need to remember the controls 
 to be good on Need for Speed Most Wanted. Everything as far as car options and upgrades from NFSU2 
 are all in the game, along with many new items that are opened up over time. The Black Edition 
 comes with 2 extra cars, and despite the higher price tag, was more than worth it. Personally, 
 the only car this game lacks is mine, Scion tC. Perhaps a Need for Speed Most Wanted 2 will encourage 
 such a great car to be added. :) Great game, Great price, Great fun, and Great! my review is done 
 so I can go play again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadibm
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 28, 2006 5:39 am PT
Review:  I mean it's was absolutly thrilling driving the Viper on that chase the first time, looks like 
 this one is the best of the series so far and i have tried the whale 8 of them, i gottat admite 
 though Need For Spped Underground 2 was amazing in every thing, but i didn't feel the sam rush 
 i felt playing Underground 1, i can hardly forget the first time jumping over that bridge
  
  now i can get the best in both Underground 1 &amp; 2 and much much more in everything, and 
 what about the graphics, the Cars, it's just so perfect
  
  you turn all your graphic options up and notice the differance, even the rain becomes more realistic 
 and takes to another level of enjoying the game the car details are almost perfect and now as in 
 Underground 1 you can spin your ride all the way to see how it looks after you tune it
  
  Music is aslo Amazing chasing becomes more challanging whith all the cops sound and shout and music
 
  
  EA two thumbs up 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arnau4kov
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 18, 2005 3:34 am PT
Review:  I'm playin' "MW Black edition" and the game Rock's !!!
  Now I'm 7th in th BlackList and i want to say that for the time i have been played this game [maybe 
 15 hours] the game grabbed me :) !!!
  I dont't like only one thing and it is that the song selection is no so good !
  And I'm wondering 
 where are this 36 cars that was listed in the CAr LIst for the game ?! ?! ?! !? !? ?! ?? !? !? 
 !? !? !? !? !? !? !? !?! ?!?!?! !? !?! ! ?!? ?!? !!? !?! ?! ?!? ?! ?! ?! ?! ?! ?! ?!? !? ? !!? 
 !? !? ?!?! !??! ?! ?!? !?!? ?! ?! ? !!?! ?! ?!? !?!? ?!?! ?!?! ?! ?! ?! ?!?!?!?!?!? ?!?!?!?! ?! 
 ??!??!?! ?!? !? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CpPhu916
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 18, 2005 2:48 am PT
Review:  Just Download the latest driver from www. logitech. com i downloaded the momo steering wheel driver 
 and installed it. (Don't worry it will still detech the wheel as Driving force pro...
  
  Then go set the wheel to 900 degrees in windows control panel (i perfer 600 degrees for this game) 
 and another cool thing about this is that you can use this wheel for other pc racing games ain't 
 that pretty Cool huh!!
  
  Ok.. Back to the game... The Graphics are Great in this game and the gameplay is Good too.. it's 
 something new ... like when you are racing and almost to the finish line .. then out of the blue 
 the cops jump in and starts chasing you and blocking you .. it makes you panic ... DAM COPS and 
 after you are done with the race you still have to take care of the cops ... i think that was pretty 
 cool .. it makes it feel like a street race then a track race..
  
  I think the sound and music went Great with this game .. it gets you pumped up for a race and the 
 blow off valve sound of the turbo SWEET!!! And the engine Sounds STRONG .. even tho its sounds the 
 same as NFS Underground 1 and 2 i still like it...
  
  The Only i dislike was body kits .. TOO EXTREME ,TOO CRAZY for me.. Still a Great Game
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Krayman
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 18, 2005 2:25 am PT
Review:  This game got amazing gameplay... I have always spent hours on the NFS series.... but this one got 
 unlimited speed and gives u huge energy kick... the games effects gets u glued in the game and u 
 play every challenge and must finnish it even if ur mum is yelling u don't listen... the graphics 
 gets 9 because the graphic seems to be not that concentrated at every detail but it is good enough 
 and that's what does Most Wanted that special.... And EA have finally made it that they got more 
 beautiful chic in this new NFS game... And this is the best NFS game ever 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zorganite
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 18, 2005 12:53 am PT
Review:  Pretty well what you'd expect from a combination. The sacrifices made are, in my opinion, uncessary. 
 I would have no problem whatsoever with a cast of cars including every car from HP2 and every car 
 from U/U2.
  
  I somehow manage to get a low framerate on a 7800GTX, not even on max details. It makes no sense 
 to me. 
  
  But, we all have to have our fix when it comes to street racing, and now we can get our classy-car 
 fix too. Just remember this - For each car, you can buy 5 body kits, some hoods, rims, and roof 
 scoops. That's it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: siaubas01
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 17, 2005 11:46 pm PT
Review:  I like almost all, but some bugs... I play this game and i like it.
  Most of all i like that girl :) she is perfect. Now game is simply, like a first series of NFS. 
 Graphic and sound is very good. Good is game history to. It is nail-biter.
  Now in game are my favorites cars, my lovey Corvette, super cars mercedes. Hera are porche, lamborgini, 
 my car golf gti :) to. It's amazing.
  Tracks are not dark, i like it. Now is like nfs6 (Need for Speed Hot Pursuit 2) .
  This game composite 
 of NFS6 and NFSU.
  Every must though try this game.
  Good luck.
  Sorry for spelling :) i write first time english. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vova05
Rating: 5.3
Date: Nov 17, 2005 11:20 pm PT
Review:  Hey let me say I love NFS series. But this one should've been patched before it came on the shelves. 
 I cannot assign brake/revers from my Microsoft Sidewinder wheel no matter how I try. I know that 
 people with same wheel had same problems, also, with other wheels something similar. There are 
 plenty of bugs with the game, including non-stop rumbling and shaking of the wheel after a crash, 
 I mean, it should be rumbling but not forever like it does..... Otherwise, the game is beautiful 
 and as soon as they patch it (I HOPE) I'll play it. 
  
  Signing off, yours truly,
  
  Vovik 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tcwleblanc
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 17, 2005 7:48 pm PT
Review:  Okay well first off i have to say that this game is fun, but it does have some flaws. 
  
  
  Graphics: The graphics are beautiful if you can turn everything all the way up. the cars look 
 nice there aren't any "jaggies" and if your system is good enough the framerate stays up there. 
 The rain effects are very cool as in each droplet you can see part of the image doubled in it and 
 they look quite realistic. The NOS and high speed effects are cool but there should be some way 
 to turn them off, as they do become a little distorting at times. The cutscenes are interesting 
 though i tend to like them the real actors spliced in with the CG works pretty well.
  
  Sound: The sound is also excellent if you can deal with the music. the car sounds are great and 
 hearing the blowoff valve release all that extra power build up is music to the ears. all the cars 
 have uniqe engine sounds that tend to be realistic. and the cops, ohh the cops they sound so authentic 
 its almost unbelievable.
  
  Gameplay: outrunning the cops is a total blast, but other than that there is a been there done 
 that sort of feeling, not that its really a bad thing as its still enjoyable. the first few races 
 in career mode are pathetic sit your 4 year old sister down at the keyboard and i bet she could 
 win, but they tend to get tougher from there out. around blacklist member 11 or 10 the cars start 
 to give you a bit of a challange which is much welsome. as for the mods in the game there arent 
 nearly as many as the underground series but there are still enough to keep you occupied for a 
 little while. Personally i would have liked to see some more upgrades and mods, thats just me though. 
 as for the fine tuning of your car... well if you can read you can tune, this was toned down A LOT 
 from previous versions. though i enjoy it as you can tune your car in the middle of a race, some 
 people may not like it. there are also one stop shops this time around where you can get visual, 
 performance and parts upgrades at one store. no more traveling around the whole city for your modding 
 needs!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: onewheeldoin200
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 17, 2005 6:25 pm PT
Review:  I'm a big fan of the Need For Speed series.... I own every single one from Need For Speed SE onwards. 
 The newest installment of Need For Speed does not dissapoint! It's beautiful, action packed, and 
 dripping with style. It's not perfect, far from it, but if you take it for what it is (an arcade 
 racer, basically) then you will have a blast with it.
  
  Okay, let's get the negative stuff out of the way here. First on our list: the AI. EA seems to 
 shirk actually coding a proper AI; instead they rely on an infuriating rubber-band system. This 
 system nearly renders the mods you do to your car useless, because as you put out faster and faster 
 lap times, so does your competition, regardless of what kind of cars they drive. It gets to the 
 point where it's actually easier to win races if you intentionally crash or hold back a bit, then 
 blitz to the finish in the last 20% of the race. Yes, you can disable this AI in Quick Race mode, 
 but I'd like to see that option for Career Mode as well. Also related to this AI are the ridiculous 
 things the AI cars can do: what's that? You have a completely tricked out Elise and you're racing 
 a Mustang? You just pulled off an impossibly good corner, and the heavier, worse-handling Mustang 
 just passed you on the inside? Yeah, that's rubberband AI: physically impossible feats and ridiculous 
 race outcomes. C'mon EA, stop taking shortcuts in this area. Anyways, 'nuff said.
  
  The rest of my grievances are minor ones. The HDR bloom is completely overdone, to the point where 
 it's difficult to see while you're racing at high speed. I had to turn it off because it was giving 
 me headaches from the eye strain (but it does look gorgeous) . The characters in the game use absolutely 
 appalling language. Not profanity, but phrases like "that's a slammin ride man" and ridiculous 
 race tips from your girlfriend such as "he's riding on a lot of power, wait for him to shift first". 
 Just about every time one of the characters opens their mouth I get shivers (the bad kind) . Why, 
 for the love of god, can't they just call a car a "car" every now and then? The language feels 
 horribly forced, in a failed attempt to sound "cool". 
  
  Okay, that's all the negatives I can think of. Only 1 major and 2 or 3 minor points? Yeap, and 
 on to the good stuff!
  
  Firstly, the game is beautiful. Right from the opening menu to the cutscenes and the city you frequent, 
 the entire world is just oozing style and charisma. It's almost overdone, but not quite. Every 
 menu action is accompanies by swooshing sounds, a sweeping camera, and sprawling graffiti. So this 
 game has excellent atmosphere. As I stated above, the HDR graphical effects look amazing, but I 
 had to turn them off because they seriously hamper your vision. Everything in this game from the 
 cars to the bulidings and glistening roads is well done and adds to the atmosphere. This feels 
 like a gritty, take-no-prisoners kind of city. 
  
  One thing to note here is that NFS: MW uses full motion video cutscenes with video effects overlaid. 
 This is a pretty uncommon thing nowadays, but the game pulls it off wonderfully. The cutscenes 
 give the game almost a comic book feel, and it really adds that much more to the atmosphere. In 
 game rendered cutscenes look amateur and cheap by comparison. And hey, the actors and actresses 
 are actually half decent! 
  
  The variety of cars is really nice. Sure there's only about 35 or so, while the GTA series just 
 keeps adding volumes upon volumes, but EA does a good job of covering the important ones: You get 
 the sporty hatches, famous street racers like the Supra and RX-7, impressive track cars like the 
 Elise, and ever supercars such as the Porsche Carrera GT. I do kind of wish that you didn't have 
 to make your car look hideous with outrageous body kits (I prefer more understated looks) . 
  
  The upgrade system is fairly simple, but well done. When you buy a turbo, you can notice a 
 change in the sound of your engine, and you get a boost gauge. Each upgrade yields very noticible 
 differences in-game and it's a cool thing to watch your car go from a stock machine to something 
 that really belongs on a race track.
  
  The new racing modes are a blast! I especially like the toll booth mode, where the objective is 
 to clock the highest speeds possible through toll booths. Lots of fun. Also, the police chases 
 are pretty fun once you get going. It is ridiculously easy to lose the first cop, but if you toy 
 with him and bring more to the party, it's a good time. Also, the destruction and mayhem you can 
 cause while running from the law is great. Knock a huge sign down, blow up a gas station, wipe 
 out the radio tower at the police station, etc etc. There's lots of large structures you can ram 
 into and destroy to block police that are following you, and it's fun to do. 
  
  There's also a plethora of "challenges" that you can do, which include everything from destroying 
 a certain number of cop cars to getting through a course in a specific time. The challenges are 
 varied enough to keep things interesting, and they round out the game nicely.
  
  I haven't tried multiplayer yet, so I can't comment much on that, but I've yet to be dissapointed 
 by NFS multiplayer.
  
  Overall, this is a great game. It's chock full of style, action, and fast cars. If you enjoyed 
 NFS: Underground, I gaurantee you will love this game. If you think that NFS: Porsche Unleashed 
 was the best NFS of all time, you might be annoyed by the AI and arcade-ish physics. Either way, 
 I have to recommend that every racer fan at least try this one. I actually bought it on a whim 
 when another game I was looking for had it's release date pushed back, and frankly I'm glad that 
 I did. There's enough here to keep me happilly tearing up the virtual streets for a long time to 
 come. Job well done EA! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nyogr82
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 17, 2005 5:03 pm PT
Review:  The Best mod-racing game ever... Perfect "wedding" of NFS Hot Pursuit (1 & 2) and NFS Underground 
 (1 & 2 also) .!! Breath-taking action, incredible graphs, excellent car choices and music?? 4 Oscar...!!
 
  
  The Best mod-racing game ever... Perfect "wedding" of NFS Hot Pursuit (1 & 2) and NFS Underground 
 (1 & 2 also) .!! Breath-taking action, incredible graphs, excellent car choices and music?? 4 Oscar...!!
 
  
  The Best mod-racing game ever... Perfect "wedding" of NFS Hot Pursuit (1 & 2) and NFS Underground 
 (1 & 2 also) .!! Breath-taking action, incredible graphs, excellent car choices and music?? 4 Oscar...!!
 
  
  The Best mod-racing game ever... Perfect "wedding" of NFS Hot Pursuit (1 & 2) and NFS Underground 
 (1 & 2 also) .!! Breath-taking action, incredible graphs, excellent car choices and music?? 4 Oscar...!!
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShamanKiller
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 17, 2005 3:55 pm PT
Review:  As with every new NFS game the hype is a lot bigger than it should be if u look at the quality 
 of the end product. I'm not saying it's a ripoff but it's an average game... nothing more. All "underground" 
 features have been seen before in the last two releasses and not even the cop chasing thing is 
 a new one as it has already been done in Hot Pursuit. In short it is a very commercial game that 
 oozes "pimp my ride" and cliches. In fact I wouldn't be surprised if i'd see a South Park episode 
 made about it because it's getting really old. In my oppinion the best game of the series is still 
 Porsche Unleashed and it will take EA a great deal of time to beat that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingSlacker
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 17, 2005 3:55 pm PT
Review:  Need for speed: Most Wanted shows new hype and innovation when it comes to racing games. Fun gameplay 
 that starts right away, non-stop action, and great visuals. EA brings back the AI with the police 
 for NFS: MW, and they have done a fairly good job, except for the occasional cop flying right bye 
 you or across the screen, they are pretty good, and get tough as the game progresses. 
  
  The Good: 
  - Nice graphics.
  - Awesome gameplay. ( Spend hours evading the Police )
  - Huge 
 Car list.
  - Fun to customize as usual.
  - Love the race tracks, a lot of very fun places to drive.
  - Great loads of fun.
  - Easy to 
 learn and play.
  
  The Bad:
  - A bit to easy to Play and learn. 
  - Cops can come out of no-where sometimes.
  - EA is getting better at scripts, but not all there. 
 
  - One cop can sometimes bust you when you get stuck. 
  
  All in all, one of the best games i played all year, really fun and worth every penny, so go spend 
 some on Need for Speed: Most Wanted. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snackielul
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 17, 2005 3:26 pm PT
Review:  what i have concluded after a couple hours of play:
  
  the good things:
  - Some pretty sweet graphics.
  - lots of cars , lots of new ones
  - new game modes are quite 
 fun 
  - the police ; they are fun ;although quite stupid
  
  the bad things:
  - gets boring fast ; always the same , no orgininal twists.
  - more or less the same as NFSU2 
 , no change in feel or style.
  - more or less the same lame story as in the other NFSU games
  - crappy car handling ( the car 
 allowes you to do awkward things)
  - whats up with the insane speeds? (j/k)
  - the crappy engine sounds
  
  I'm quite the critic , i know. But one could say that this is 
 NFSU 1/2 with just some added cops. People who haven't played either NFSU or NFSU 2 will adore this 
 game. But i think that people who have played both will not get what they want.
  
  snackx 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anth_14_2004
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 17, 2005 1:47 pm PT
Review:  Just Simply AMAZING... everything in game is just perfect for a racing game
  The graphics are beautifull the reflections on the cars its awesome.. The cars in game there all 
 good mostly the Lamborgini its so kool you can modiefy one its AWESOME. The season mod is just so 
 fun better then NFSU2 good story in it. Making a name for youself by climbing the game's Black List, 
 you must beat them, its real good fun. And when the cop chase mechanics of the Hot Pursuit games 
 is certainly welcome, plus it's interesting to see that the vaunted "open" gameplay of the last 
 two games has been dialed down by a more forcibly linear structure to keep things interesting. The 
 stylistic presentation and graphic sensibilities are impressive, and they're complemented by excellent 
 engine sound effects and smart cop chatter. Igive a 10/10 its to fun worth buying... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: plague32390
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 17, 2005 12:05 pm PT
Review:  Need For Speed: Most Wanted brings back what I considered the greatest addition to any racing series 
 and that is cop chases. You still have all the standard races from Underground 1 and 2 and a few 
 extras, though I think they got rid of the drag mode, tis a shame that was my favorite race type 
 from Underground but the cops make up for it and then some. The cops in this one are REALLY agressive 
 and they never give up. None of this BS "Its getting too dangerious, im pulling back!", No, they 
 stay on your ass untill you either A) Disable all of them and pull away, or B) You are caught. Again, 
 like in Underground 2, its a free roaming map, and you can be tagged by the cops at any time, you 
 dont even have to be in a race.
  
  The graphics have topped themselfs again, with this being the best looking game in the series yet. 
 Real time reflections, shadows, motion blur, and you can have 10 or 15 cops chasing you and I havent 
 noticed a slow down yet, it is deffiantly a smooth running game.
  
  The sound as always spot on, with licenced music, authentic engine sounds, so on so forth. What 
 surprised me the most is the conversations between the dispatch and the cops. I mean they go in 
 deep, its like the sound guys spent a lot of time with real cops just to learn the lingo.
  
  Need For Speed: Most Wanted has it all, fast races, modding cars, huge cop chases, open ended 
 map, and some of the best cars ever made. Go play Need For Speed: Most Wanted, if just for the 
 cop chases alone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _iMMuNiTy_
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 17, 2005 10:37 am PT
Review:  I was very sceptic towards Most Wanted, especially after playing the demo. Now, after trying out 
 the full version, I've drastically changed my mind. Most Wanted is quite a big step in the Need 
 for Speed series. Why? Because it has thrilling cop chases from Need for Speed: Hot Pursuit, tuning 
 and free-roam from Undergrounds, and environments and races from Need for Speed: Porsche Unleashed. 
 The developers took aspects of NFS series which fans liked the most, and they combined it into 
 Most Wanted.
  
  The graphics have been tweaked a little; one of the most eye-catching changes are that now racing 
 action takes place in daytime, and bloom effects have been added. For a racing genre game, the 
 graphics are perfect. I'm talking technically - if you don't have a good video card, the game looks 
 like crap, but if you max the settings out - the game looks beautiful.
  
  The gameplay, as I've mentioned before, is a mixture of Hot Pursuit, Porsche Unleashed, and both 
 Underground series, plus a couple of new features - Speed Breaker and Pursuit Breaker. Speed Breaker 
 allows you to slow down time in order to avoid tricky situations, and Pursuit Breaker allows you 
 to lose "cops", Hollywood style. However, an arcade is an arcade: rival cars are easy to catch 
 up to, but hard to evade; stock police cars can catch up with your custom ride on a straight road; 
 handling spazzes out if Speed Breaker is not used correctly.
  
  Most Wanted features a new soundtrack, even more powerful roars of cars, and a few environmental 
 sounds, too. But, I, for one, didn't like the new soundtrack. Heck, I didn't like soundtrack from 
 neither of Undegrounds. Heavy metal just doesn't suit a race. But then again, it's all down to 
 tastes. So, other than music, I've got no complaints.
  
  Need for Speed: Most Wanted is like a cool breeze on a hot summer day after recent Need for Speeds. 
 And it's a worth grab off the shelves of your nearest game store, because of the now great multiplayer, 
 and hey, the developers deserved it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rassal
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 17, 2005 10:12 am PT
Review:  I played all need for speed game since the beginning, and since Hot Pursuit 2, i was bored with 
 NFS series until now... COPS are back... awsome single player, cinematics are finally what they 
 should be... hollywood production style, i really like this. Only drawback i can see is the max 
 4 player online or in lan... a game today should be at least 16 players in LAN or Online, never 
 under this, Especially for a racing game... only thing that refrains me from awarding a perfect 
 score. My opinion says that NFS: Most Wanted is even better than Gran Turismo when it came out 
 on PS couple of years ago. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: viniciosm
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 17, 2005 9:24 am PT
Review:  Very Very Very Good. The only one you should buy from all series at all cost. They have finally 
 found the missing ingredient for this game which I am glad to say that I am very, but very happy. 
 I can't wait to get my hands on one of the copies. The graphics are awesome and the game play is 
 ... can't even tell you, you have to see with your own eyes to believe. I am sure that Need for 
 Speed Most Wanted is going to be the best racing game of the year. Like I said before it is very 
 very very very good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJ_DULLO
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 17, 2005 8:29 am PT
Review:  It is just so very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very 
 very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very 
 very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very 
 very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very 
 very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very 
 very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very 
 very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very 
 good!
  It is just the best racing game ever made! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: naor12345
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2005 6:59 am PT
Review:  very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very 
 very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very 
 very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very 
 very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very 
 very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very 
 very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very 
 very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very 
 very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very 
 very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very 
 very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very 
 very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very 
 very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very 
 very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very 
 very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very 
 very very very very very very 
  
  G O O D ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !
  
  .... ,  
    !!!!!!  
 ?????
  
      
   ????? 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: alhaj
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 11, 2008 1:42 pm PT
Review:  I say .. NFS Most Wanted is the best in it series's.. and it's better than any other racing game 
 out there!.
  
  I can't even wait to get my copy , Am playin' Most Wanted in the demo version, which amazed me 
 instantly!...
  
  Love the cars, love the graphics, love the fisics, love the game!
  
  When I was playin' NFS Underground 2 at the time, i said and wished .. "why don't they put some 
 supercars.. like Porsche and BMW or Mercedes ",,, and suprisingly they did in NFS Most Wanted !! 
 
  
  It's like.. they can read my mind, and other's too !! 
  because these cars are my favorite ones!... Ferrari is my favorite car too,
  But it's not in 
 the Most Wanted game,, guess because I didn't mention it.. LOL
  
  All My Thank's to Electronic Arts Team for an amazing games and gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterEmil
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 29, 2005 12:32 pm PT
Review:  this one is really good the graphic kick ass the way you drive is perfect the sound is like you 
 drive a real car and the Police radio in the background you get in the mood of it.... evrything 
 is good about it..... now to the bad stuff. I think that there is no Neon in the game or all the 
 tunings from the other games like the Sound systen i loved that or the Neon is not there either 
 or the thing where you get stars how good your car is looking bow you can make the most ugly car 
 without it is getting dissed..... the paint jobs you can get is not that big and you can't get 
 sponsers that is really sad and i think that there could be more movies..... but that is just my 
 opinion 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeRZhuL1986
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 17, 2005 4:05 am PT
Review:  This game really the best game that i have played in both NFS series and other game series. This 
 time the difference is atmosphere that is created by the help of the graphics that the shadows 
 and the tone of the reds add to this game a new fresh life... Also the compability of game is wonderful 
 so it does not require a wonderful pcs. The musics and sounds are effectively good. On the other 
 hand the girl in the first video is very very beautiful and i am shouting to her from right here 
 "Do u marry me?" (lol) And last well done to ea sports... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fauscsk
Rating: 5.7
Date: Nov 17, 2005 3:23 am PT
Review:  Perhaps I shouldn't write a review when only playing the demo, but I have read my share of reviews 
 on this game aswell. The whole put cops in the world thing HAS been done before in a racing game, 
 this is not new as everybody seems to be saying. Everybody is like, WHOA street racing WITH COPS, 
 THATS GREAT, but shouldnt that have been in NFSU1 already? The limited time I played the demo for, 
 I thought to myself, why play this when I can get a much better experience with a game that isnt 
 even a racing game, GTA :/ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _adonis
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 16, 2005 10:17 pm PT
Review:  Need for Speed: Most Wanted is underground racing 
  action so real, you almost smell the burnt asphalt. The thrill of illicit street racing permeates 
 the air
  out-race rivals, evade cops and exploit hundreds of 
  miles of open road as gamers make their way up the 
  Blacklist. Build up your street cred and 
 Rap Sheet 
  with gripping, white knuckle, head-to-head races 
  with the top drivers on the streets. Then pull 
  daring, evasive moves to out-run and out-fox 
 the 
  cops that patrol the open road. Strategic cop 
  pursuit and skill-based evasion techniques for an 
  all-new level of gameplay Extensive visual 
 
  customizations are available, whether you want to 
  lose the cops or just pimp out your ride 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shedo123
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 16, 2005 9:45 pm PT
Review:  Get Your Hands on Need For Speed Most Wanted coz its hot
  
  the racing genre was getting a bit shabby and need for speed most wanted has just provided the 
 breath of fresh air, the vibe for all you nfs fans
  
  The storyline is good and the FMV sequences are nicely put together
  you have a wide variety 
 of cars to choose from every category.... sure you have to beat the blacklist members to unlock 
 them but its quite easy.........
  
  the speedbreaker thing adds a whole new gameplay feature to the game and can be quite usefull in 
 a sticky situation
  
  the environment is a classic and the daytime really improves the feel of the game compared to the 
 lights and the bright neons of NFS U2
  
  the only complaint is about the car physics the opponents feel real cheap at times slamming into 
 you but you cannot do the same as their cars fell like tanks
  
  overall the game is a must have for any racing game FAN and it surely will keep you nailed to the 
 pc for hours of enjoying gameplay
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: velociraptor
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 16, 2005 9:40 pm PT
Review:  I have always wondered why in GTA there are cops who never care about teh damage you make.
  
  Well those days are over kiddo. Need for speed is here with GTA style free roaming which was 
 introduced in underground2 and adds cops creating one hell of a driving experience.
  
  it is very easy to loose track of time in this game and the quality is absolutely amazing. 
  
 
  EA might release crappy games once in a while but hey.... you got to admit need for speed is the 
 best racing series ever.
  
  gosh! I love that BMW M3 ...... can't wait to get it back from that sob RAZOR. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sunwukong
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 16, 2005 9:28 pm PT
Review:  The series has finally brought back what made it great (cops) and keeps one of the best car customization 
 systems to date. Now, i've never really liked racing games, but as i'm obsessed with cars and their 
 customization (i spent 2 and a half hours customizing my El Camino in Midnight Club 3) finding 
 games that do that part of it well is important for me, and these guys do it well. The fact that 
 each part is unique to the car you're putting it on makes for a welcome break from the monotony 
 of NFSU2, where you had 3 or 4 configurations you liked and every car you picked up along the way 
 got a pretty similar treatment. As great as all those features are, this is still a pretty standard 
 racing game for the most part. It's definitely fast, especially once you get your hands on a lamborghini, 
 and the car handling is a huge improvement over the straight ultra-loose arcade feeling of the 
 previous entries in the series. The city that all this takes place in has also vastly improved. 
 Not only is it drop dead gorgeous, and being set in the daytime really lets you appreciate that, 
 but it feels alot more alive, mostly thanks to the police. During the first half of the game you 
 can toy around with the cops with little real fear of being caught, even if you do have what feels 
 like a hundred squad cars on your tail, but almost instantaneously after you hit the halfway mark 
 in the story they get a whole lot more aggressive, and they get a helicopter and corvettes. The 
 chases get a lot more tense and a lot faster after that. Graphically, the game is just great. The 
 car models are sharp and the terrain is amazingly detailed, as long as your rig can handle it. 
 My only complaint with the graphics is the lack of blur as you accelerate. Then again, i can never 
 get enough motion blur. Value wise, i got the black edition for $39.99. I'm not entirely sure what 
 the difference between the black edition and the regular edition is (presumably more cars) but 
 either way you look at it, that's a damn good value. So, in summation, buy this game if you have 
 even a passing interest in racing games, car customization, or even just shiny pretty looking car 
 models. You won't be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kit30000149
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 16, 2005 7:44 pm PT
Review:  it is very frustured story, becos you willl really hate the black list Number 1 player. Hahaha....
 
  
  that is why you will put your heart in there and beat them all up~~!
  
  the Graphic is perfect. SOund effect is perfect.
  
  story attractive, the girl is hot~!! 
 
  
  the feeling of this game is you are really addicted to see what will happen next~! no wonder this 
 is the most success in this series. 
  
  But I am not sure can I use police car. hahaha.. I am still playing~!!
  
  my mechine is not 
 the best but it can run very high detail setting.
  
  Intel 3.0 
  dual 1.5G ram coxior
  inno3D 6800
  Momo racing wheel
  LCD TV 20"
  
  buy it, most buy item. (black edition) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SOKMHeadShot
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 16, 2005 5:21 pm PT
Review:  From Puerto Rico to the World! You dont need to be a NFS fan to play this game! Its amazing, and 
 the story make you hate the #1 rank in the black list lol! The graphics are awesome and you dont 
 need to have a high end pc to play it in high! In my 9800PRO run perfect!... even with antialiasing. 
 The world looks so real with the addition of fog and the leafs is a great touch, the way they manage 
 the shadows are great too. The acting in the game is not the best but the way they present it is 
 allright! If your a race games fan its for you!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSJ4_majin
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 16, 2005 2:55 pm PT
Review:  What can I say the new game is just OAU!!! It is excellent the story is very similar to NFSU2 
 except that you dont move to a new city after you lose your ride in fact your old ride is the 
 car to beat after you lose it in a fixed race. 
  
  But he story never was the strong point of NFS ... so lets get back to the most important stuff 
 THE CARS!!! THE RACE as always the cars is great, except that we no longer have a Peugeot . But 
 thats life... I counted a total of 32 cars is that a smaller number that the last NFS?? 
  
  Even with a smaller number the cars are back to the race-car fashion no not Ferrari but still 
 are a lot more sportive than a Hummer : D. Anywho... its a great game.
  I cant really say that the graphics are a lot better than NFSU2 (please keep in mind that the 
 difference is created by the fact that this game is in daytime) . The soundtrack is as great as 
 ever its race music!!! 
  
  The gameplay has not changed almost at all so the learning curve is very little if you have ever 
 played a race game before :D. But the difficulty has gotten better no longer will you have the 
 5 min advantage in long races WORK FOR YOUR WIN!! :D
  This game must be played and it lives up to its expectations and also surpasses them.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: squamito
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 16, 2005 2:50 pm PT
Review:  I recently downloaded and played Need for Speed: Most Wanted and I found it to be a very fun and 
 exciting game to play. It offers some of the new cars on the market to race with. Also the modes 
 that you can play in are very fun to explore.
  
  It doesn't offer a bunch of new things to experience so when you play, if you've ever played NFS 
 before, you will find it to be somewhat the same as the others. This is bad as it is suppose to 
 be a new game.
  
  If you really liked the other NFS games than you will def. love this one as well, however if your 
 not that into driving games then you will find your self getting board with this very quickly.
 
  
  All around the game was fun to play for a while but I wouldn't spend any money on it anytime soon. 
 It just seems to be too much like every other release of NFS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: S3o0oDY
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 16, 2005 12:16 pm PT
Review:  as we know guys all need for speed version rocks i mean they r so dam good anyway i guess u all 
 know that so no need to tell u that enjoy the game.,.. oh man do i have to write 100 words.... GooD 
 LucK GooD LucK GooD LucK GooD LucK GooD LucK GooD LucK GooD LucK GooD LucK GooD LucK GooD LucK 
 GooD LucK GooD LucK GooD LucK GooD LucK GooD LucK GooD LucK GooD LucK GooD LucK GooD LucK GooD 
 LucK GooD LucK GooD LucK GooD LucK GooD LucK GooD LucK GooD LucK GooD LucK GooD LucK GooD LucK 
 GooD LucK 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lammejan
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 17, 2005 7:58 am PT
Review:  take the best moments from hot pursuit 2 and underground 2
  and you get most wanted, well i bet this game will be most wanted when its released in stores.
 
  the graphics are breathtaking and i will never forget the first time i slid under a truck in slowmotion.
 
  the speed is really great, and finally you dont crash into lamps and trees: you just run them 
 over.
  i dont know about the tuning (i've got the demo)
  but nfs underground 2 rules so i think its even better with this version.
  if got all the need 
 for speeds but this one finally gives back the feeling i first had in hot pursuit 3, fast action 
 lots of cops to hit.
  the exotic cars in juiced where nice but not very exiting, but the viper in this game kicks ass!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
 
  this game forefills your need for speed.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: carlheinz
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 16, 2005 6:45 am PT
Review:  This game takes the cake, in sheer speed and ambience the game scores 10, then u get chased by 
 the police to boot. NFSU: MW gives realism to to the adrenaline u would receive when driving a 
 real car, which is a plus because
  not all of us have fast cars, a Viper.
  
  Need for Speed can be played on any medium spec pc but if u've got the hardware thats where EA's 
 skilles really shine, the level of detail is amazing.
  On my pc it feels like i'm behind the wheel.
  
  Though i cannot finalize my review from the 
 demo, so i'll leave it the.
  
  If u've got the NEED and want SPEED get Most Wanted.
  
  Machine Spec:
  3.2 P4 LGA 775
  Gigabyte 945 MB
  2 Gig Corsair DDR2 533Mhz
  Gigabyte X800XL 
 PCI-E
  Antec Super LAnboy Case
  VIewSonic 19" Xtreme 3ms LCD 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ViperCPT
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 16, 2005 12:43 am PT
Review:  After waiting patiently for a new release of a need for speed game, Most Wanted has realy produced.
 
  
  After NFS Underground 2 and the repeatitiveness of Juiced, Most Wanted has brought new life into 
 the racing game genre. Looking at the gameplay, graphics, fisics and the detail Most Wanted is 
 excellent and a TOP SELLER for sure.
  
  The demo of the game just tickles your taste butts for more........ Addictive the game is and promises 
 to keep gamers behind there computer screens for hours, if not days.
  
  All and all this is a execellent, excellent game. Great going by Electronic Arts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tusa04
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 26, 2007 4:18 am PT
Review:  The whole idea of combining NFSUG2 with NFSHP2 ... Is a brilliant one, it contains all the perfect 
 racing/chasing car game needs... But the most thing that amazed me was the graphics and how did 
 they took of the minor details like body damage not like NFSUG2, glass breaking and damage to police 
 and property.... also the Racebreaker really Miraculous with slow motion effects of property and 
 things just flying and blasting into the air, the police chases are incredile with u manovering 
 between them and dodgeing them or even blasting the cars to evade and crashing it into other cars... 
 In my Opinion this game is the best racing/chasing game ever besides ofcourse BURNOUT REVENGE... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sallyboy233
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 15, 2005 10:58 pm PT
Review:  This game pretty much gets everything right. The cop chases are excilerating and its a cool feeling 
 when you escape. if only played it for a little bit but im confident enuf that this is the greates 
 tuner out there. Graphics are amazing. With games like this I wonder why there already coming out 
 with new systems. The customisation is even better than Underground 2 . Its crazy the sense of 
 speed you get. The sound has everything youd want in a racing game. Its got the classic woosh you 
 get as you pass objects and engines sound great. I cant get enough of this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sos_lp
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 15, 2005 10:15 pm PT
Review:  What you had not seen in racing games (well up to now) is the very fact of police in the city. 
 I mean how can you run around with those cars in the city and no police after you..!? thats NOT 
 RIGHT..!
  So the main aspect of the game is that you new in town you wanna take the big guys down with your 
 PIMP'd out ride, but guess what? you loose!!!
  So the concept of revenge comes into your mind and the game play for you to get back on em'. IN 
 ANY WAY POSSIBLE!!! and i mean it....
  You can hit trucks, turn em' around, brake through police barriers, all the heck of a fun stuff 
 all together with your opponents on the street and specially pimped POLICE CARS to catch you up.
 
  
  The graphic? well there is nothing to add but MASSIVE... You are racing in a real world actually 
 with weather changes, traffic lights, winds, special effects, destroyable phone boots and so on... 
 ( you know what i mean, when was the last time you were able to brake something of the world you 
 were racing in, in racing games!)
  
  The game play is allot of fun, u can mess around with cops... explore, challenge and so on.... 
 what you have is! Great cars, Nice mods, Highways, Cops, High speeds, and reckless driving.... 
 So make the most of it cuz you gonna have to become ... the!
  "MOST WANTED" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: weallwish
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 15, 2005 3:00 pm PT
Review:  Need for speed most wanted is a very exciting game. The customize options are as vast as Underground 
 2. The menu controls arent as good, also the gameplay ones aren't nearly as good as nfs u2 (but 
 i changed them) , and it is pretty awkward changing from dark nightplay with an underground like 
 in Underground 2 to bright daytime. The graphics are sweet and the cars sound as good as the previous 
 edition. The cars are a great choice for the series. The music could be better, but that is opinion. 
 Best of all, i paid 39.99 for PC Black Edition from amazon, and that is a great value. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
