-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Need for Speed Carbon
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/driving/needforspeedcarbon/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 More-solid FMV sequences.
 Loads of customization options.
 Solid core gameplay.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Frustrating boss battles.
 Underutilizes police chases.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov  3, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.6
Critic Score: 7.8, 14 Review (s)
User Score: 8.0, 5,616 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Games
Developer: EA Canada
Genre: GT / Street Racing
Date:     Oct 31, 2006 &raquo;  
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Even though the wingman mechanics and canyon races don't quite pan out, it's still a stylish and 
 enjoyable street racer. 

  After rebooting the franchise with Need for Speed Underground, EA has continued to produce some 
 solid street racers under the Need for Speed banner. Last year's Need for Speed Most Wanted, which 
 featured hilariously over-the-top live-action cutscenes and seriously tense police pursuits, proved 
 to be a high watermark for the franchise. Now it's being followed up by Need for Speed Carbon, 
 which downplays the role of the police chases, introduces some simple team-racing mechanics, and 
 occasionally takes the action off the city streets and into the outlying canyons. The new gameplay 
 doesn't always improve the experience, but the racing can still be quite intense and still has 
 a pronounced sense of style.  

          You'll make the streets of Palmont City yours over the course of the career mode.     

 
  Carbon continues the story where Most Wanted left off. For those just tuning in, Most Wanted ended 
 with you recovering your stolen car and bailing out of the city of Rockport while the overzealous, 
 anti-street-racing Sgt. Cross continued his pursuit. At the start of Carbon, you're making your 
 way to Palmont City when Cross, now a bounty hunter, catches up with you and totals your car during 
 the chase. Before he can collect his bounty on you, though, your old friend Darius steps in and 
 pays off Cross. You are then put to work, taking over the turf of the other rival street-racing 
 crews in Palmont City. It seems that you've got a history in this town that predates the events 
 in Most Wanted. And during the course of the game, you'll learn more about that fateful night you 
 skipped town. Different characters will give their takes on the night you supposedly ran off with 
 a big red duffle bag full of cash. And by the end of the game, you'll not only find out what really 
 happened, but you'll have taken over all of the street-racing territory in Palmont City.  

  Outside of the actual gameplay, one of the more endearing aspects of Most Wanted was the way it 
 used live actors in CG environments for its story sequences. These sequences invariably featured 
 plenty of actor/model types, trying a little too hard to talk tough and failing spectacularly at 
 it. The technique remains the same in Carbon, though there are more story sequences now and a slightly 
 more self-aware tone. The heavy use of flashbacks is an interesting idea, but the story ends up 
 being kind of muddled. And none of the villains come off as particularly menacing. Although it's 
 hard to really qualify any of it as sincerely good, it's just over-the-top enough that folks who 
 enjoy stuff like  The Fast and the Furious , ironically or otherwise, should get some enjoyment 
 out of it.  

  Most Wanted had you racing to raise your visibility with the police and take on the most notorious 
 street racers in Rockport. In Carbon, it's all about turf. Palmont City is divided into four major 
 territories, each of which is predominantly controlled by a different street-racing crew. Each 
 territory is then further divided into zones, and within each zone, you'll find starting points 
 for a variety of different race events. Winning at least two events in a zone will put it under 
 your control. And once you've taken over all the zones in a given territory, you can take on the 
 head of that crew. As you continue to extend your reach across Palmont City, rival crews will come 
 back and try to retake territory the same way you took it from them, forcing you to accept their 
 challenge if you want to maintain control. Having to go back and rerace events that you've already 
 won is kind of a pain, but the open-world structure is nice and gives you plenty of options to 
 take on races at any given point.  

  However, you won't be taking on all of these crews by yourself, because Carbon lets you bring along 
 a wingman into many of the races. These computer-controlled companions break down into three different 
 behavior types -- blockers, drafters, and scouts. Blockers will run interference for you, spinning 
 out opponents at your command. Drafters let you slipstream behind them, giving you some extra speed 
 from the reduced drag, and from there you can pull aside and slingshot your way past them. Scouts 
 have a knack for finding the many alternate routes and shortcuts that can be found in most races, 
 and they have short neon tracers that follow them, making it easier for you to take advantage. 
 You'll definitely find yourself in races where your wingman's influence is the difference between 
 winning and losing. But often, your wingman's presence is either unnecessary or an actual hindrance. 
 Blockers are only really effective in taking out competitors that are behind you, and even then, 
 they're not very reliable. Drafters work as advertised, but the lengthy straightaway needed to 
 set up a proper draft is rare in Palmont City, which limits their usefulness. Scouts are the least 
 useful of the three because the neon tracers don't seem to get longer as the cars you drive go 
 faster, so eventually, there's just not enough time for you to anticipate an alternate route. If 
 you didn't call on your wingman, you might expect him or her to just hang back. But we found ourselves 
 getting bumped into and boxed in by our wingman on several occasions. It's not ruinous to the experience, 
 but sometimes it makes you wish they would just go away.  

          Canyon duels are challenging, but their repetitious structure can sometimes make them wearying. 
     

  The game relies on some pretty tried-and-true types of races, but it also throws some curves. You'll 
 find plenty of common stuff, such as lap-based circuit races, point-to-point sprints, and checkpoint 
 races. But there are also some unique races, such as the speed-trap race, where your standing is 
 determined by your cumulative MPH as you race through a series of speed traps. Most races take 
 place on the city streets of Palmont, but there are also drift events, which can take place either 
 on a closed racecourse or on the winding canyon roads that surround the city. The goal in the drift 
 events is to score points by making clean drifts around corners. The car-handling changes completely 
 for the drift events and feels much more slippery than in the rest of the game, which recalls the 
 drift events found in Need for Speed Underground 2.  

  You'll also face off with the different crew bosses in the canyons, and these events may test your 
 patience. Once you've taken enough turf for a crew boss to challenge you, you'll first race against 
 him in a standard city-street event. If you beat him there, you'll advance to one of the game's 
 canyon courses, which are narrow and undulating. Here it's a two-part race, where you'll first 
 have to chase the boss through a point-to-point race, and then reverse roles for the second part. 
 Your score on the first half is based on how close you stay to your rival; then in the second half, 
 your rival tries to outdo you. These events can be quite challenging because the courses are technically 
 complicated, and the crew bosses tend to be better, more aggressive drivers than the average street 
 racers. There are also a number of ways in which you can instantly fail. If, during the second 
 race, your opponent manages to get ahead of you for more than 10 seconds, you automatically lose. 
 But on the flipside, if you can get ahead of your opponent for more than 10 seconds in the first 
 race, you automatically win both races. Also, each course is absolutely rife with cliffs. This 
 means that if you take a corner at the wrong angle or speed, you can launch your car off of a cliff, 
 immediately ending the race. All of these elements can make for a tough but fair race. However, 
 failure takes you back to the first half of the canyon duel, even if you failed during the second 
 half. It's kind of a minor point, but it's one that can turn a canyon duel into a real chore.  
    

  The structure of the canyon duels can be frustrating, but the way Carbon marginalizes the police 
 chases that were so instrumental to the success of Most Wanted is even more disappointing. The 
 cops still play a factor because each zone has its own heat rating that increases the more you 
 race there. The higher the heat, the more likely it is that cops will start coming after you. While 
 Most Wanted had you purposely baiting the cops, as well as attempting to rack up huge property 
 damages and lengthy pursuits to advance the story, there's little reason in Carbon for you to attract 
 the attention of the law. With the ability to hop directly to any race event through the world 
 map, it's possible and quite easy for you to go through the entire story mode where you can count 
 the number of police encounters on one hand.  

          Carbon features an eclectic selection of more than 30 unique licensed cars.     

  Structural 
 imperfections aside, the core driving in Carbon is really solid. There's a great selection of licensed 
 real-world cars that you can purchase throughout the course of the game, which are sorted into 
 three different groups -- tuners, muscles, and exotics. And you'll find that each group handles differently. 
 In the tuner group, you'll find a lot of souped-up Japanese sports coupes, like the Nissan Skyline, 
 Subaru Impreza WRX, and Toyota Supra. The strength of these cars tends to be an ability to slide 
 around corners. Muscle cars are all Detroit steel, including new stuff like the Chrysler 300 and 
 the Dodge Challenger Concept. They also include early 1970s classics, like a Chevy Camaro SS and 
 a Plymouth Barracuda. And though they've got great acceleration in a straightaway, they're pretty 
 loose in the corners. The exotics group is probably the most varied, with high-end offerings from 
 Mercedes, Porsche, Alfa Romero, Lamborghini, and more. These cars also tend to demand a higher 
 level of skill to use them correctly. You can buy cars from dealerships, or you can win them from 
 crew bosses. And once you get them, there are all kinds of upgrades that you can apply to them. 
 There are tiered performance upgrades, as well as a rainbow of paint colors, dozens of vinyl stickers, 
 aftermarket rims, spoilers, and body kits. You can also fabricate your own body parts with the 
 game's autosculpt system, which is oddly reminiscent of the Game Face feature in EA Sports' Tiger 
 Woods PGA Tour games. It's a novel idea and great for making some really physically impossible-looking 
 parts. But it takes too much incremental tweaking of settings to get something unique. And there's 
 such a wide variety of prefab aftermarket parts that don't require all that toil, which means only 
 the truly obsessed will get much out of the autosculpting.  

  If you keep your eye on the prize, you can see the credits roll in Carbon's career mode in well 
 under 10 hours. But if you want to beat every event, as well as unlock every last car and upgrade, 
 you can just as easily spend 20 hours. And there's even more racing to be done outside the career 
 mode. There are 36 increasingly difficult races to take on in the challenge series, and the quick-race 
 option lets you jump into something -- no strings attached. The Xbox 360 and PC versions of Carbon 
 also provide a pretty solid online multiplayer component, where up to eight players can participate 
 in all of the race types found in the career mode, as well as multiplayer-exclusive modes, where 
 players get to play as both cops and street racers. The rules in some of these modes aren't explained 
 very well, which can make for some pretty confusing moments. But once you get past the learning 
 curve, you can have some good, team-based fun. We also experienced some minor but pervasive latency 
 issues, even when we were nowhere near the eight-player limit, as well as an odd bug where all 
 in-game sound would drop out for the duration of a race. It's kind of flawed, but again, the actual 
 feel of the racing still translates pretty well online. And an online experience system where you 
 can unlock additional cars helps make it a little more interesting. By comparison, the PlayStation 
 2 and Xbox versions get split-screen multiplayer, which works poorly and makes the omission of 
 online play almost feel insulting.  

  With Palmont City apparently living in eternal night, the game's feel recalls the Need for Speed 
 Underground games, though the scenery changes in Carbon are much more varied. There's a distinct 
 West Coast feel to Palmont City, and you'll find yourself in districts that recall the more posh 
 parts of Los Angeles and Las Vegas. As different as it feels from the city of Rockport in Need 
 for Speed Most Wanted, keen eyes and ears will notice a lot of recycled elements here. Vehicles, 
 environmental objects, textures, and a lot of the sound elements have been cut and pasted into 
 Carbon, making for some odd dj vu. In some cases, it's a good thing because the squeal of the 
 tires and the growl of various car engines still sound great. But hearing the same police radio 
 chatter in Palmont City that you did in Rockport is just weird. There's some familiar, dramatic 
 music in Carbon as well, although it's odd how poorly the game uses what is actually an interesting 
 licensed soundtrack of rock, electro, hip-hop, and grime. You won't hear much of it, because the 
 game seems to prefer its own music most of the time.  

          The missing online component in the GameCube, PS2, and Xbox versions makes the 360 version 
 an obvious favorite.      

  This is a game that seems as if it was developed for the Xbox 360 first and foremost, because the 
 Xbox, GameCube, and PS2 versions feel compromised. One of the most telling points is the fact that 
 the race-wars event type, which puts you in a field of 20 racers, isn't even an option in the non-360 
 versions. This is likely because of technical limitations. The 360 version looks great, with some 
 heavy motion blur around the edges of the screen. It also has lots of good-looking bump-mapping, 
 slick lighting and reflection effects, as well as a generally more stable frame rate and shorter 
 load times than Most Wanted. The PC version has the potential to look nearly as good as the Xbox 
 360 version, though the motion blur is a bit more subdued. It takes a pretty high-end PC to get 
 it looking that good, though, and even then the frame rate won't be entirely solid. While the Xbox 
 version has a little less flash, it still looks sharp and runs smoothly. The GameCube version looks 
 almost as good, though the frame rate can be a little inconsistent. The PS2 version, on the other 
 hand, can be pretty ugly. Textures are muddy, there are a lot of jagged edges, and the frame rate 
 is all over the place.  

  Ultimately, Need for Speed Carbon doesn't make the best use of some of the strengths from Need 
 for Speed Most Wanted. Many of the changes made to the Most Wanted formula seem to be for the sake 
 of change, but it all still just comes back to the solid driving action, which Need for Speed Carbon 
 puts to good use.  

    Editor's note 11/06/06 : Our review of the PC version of Need For Speed Carbon mistakenly scored 
 the graphics lower than intended. The score has been adjusted accordingly. GameSpot regrets the 
 error.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (278 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: bgres077
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 2, 2009 9:41 pm PT
Review:  Need For Speed Carbon is a fantastic racing game that includes all of the features that you need 
 to play time after time. In Need For Speed Carbon it is your goal to improve your cars so that 
 you can take over various territories, and ultimately the entire city. You will be battling rival 
 crews in a variety of races, including Sprints, Drifts, Circuits, and Speed Trap races.
  
  The variety of different race types keeps this game interesting, and forces you to work on improving 
 the areas you aren't good at (read: you will be re-playing the drifting stages a lot) . Once you 
 win all of the races in a certain territory you will then face the Boss of that territory, which 
 is a multiple stage race. After you beat the Boss you then control that territory and can move 
 on to take over more territories in the city.
  
  In this game you can customize just about every aspect of your car. The thing you will want to 
 focus on in the beginning is performance, and then once you get your car maxed out you can afford 
 to spend your extra cash on new tires, hood scoops, spoilers, skirts, paint, graphics, etc. The 
 sheer amount of customization you can do to your car really adds to the replay value of this game.
 
  
  The controls in Need For Speed Carbon for the PC work well, you steer with the w, a, s, d buttons, 
 you activate your NOS with the left shift button, and you can activate your crew members special 
 abilities by using the right shift and right Alt buttons. Now, you can also customize your controls 
 if these don't work out for you, which is always a plus with PC games.
  
  Offering a ton of unique races, coupled with the sheer amount of customization you can do to your 
 cars, Need For Speed Carbon is a very fun racing game that anyone of the racing genre should pick 
 up and enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fandom888
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 7, 2008 2:20 am PT
Review:  Need for Speed series rocked with Most Wanted, so the developers made a sequel to the popular series. 
 In Carbon, you will have to beat your rivals in order to restore your reputation, with the help 
 of your crew-mates.
  
  The gameplay is very good. Battling in races against opponent crews. You can also have a crew, 
 which will include mechanics, drafters, scouters and etc. Racing in multiple tracks will give you 
 territories, having enough of them will allow you to race against a boss, in order to win a whole 
 district.
  
  The game focuses on Canyon Races, which are categorized in drift, race, duel and checkpoint, each 
 one needing different skills to be done. Luckily, these skills are developed by your crew. But 
 what is wrong with the gameplay is that the boss battles are oftenly extremely hard to beat and 
 need nerves of steel to get past. Furthermore, in a try to make races look greater, the developers 
 downgraded the cop races to an unacceptable point for the serie's structure and ideas.
  
  The cars of the game are stunning once more, with many customizations available, even more from 
 Most Wanted. But it is really a pity that some of them are not useful at all.
  
  The visuals of the game are very good, especially if your system is top-notch. Of course there 
 are a few bugs (it is true that EA has a very old tradition with them) . But no-one is perfect. The 
 environment of the carbon are very realistic and even more exciting. The music and sounds of the 
 game are also good, but you may face some problems when trying to use a surround sound (personal 
 experience, this is) .
  
  Need for Speed Carbon is not perfect, and it doesn't bear resemblance to the original Need for 
 Speed concept. But even it is not a Need for Speed classic, there is no reason not to buy it, or 
 to download the demo at least.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: blu141
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 24, 2008 3:44 pm PT
Review:  NFS Carbon is an overall good game. It has good cars and good tracks, free is nice, but for me 
 escaping the hard cops was hard beyond the point of fun.
  Career is great and even with cheesy hard to follow plot its fun. I didn't really like having wingmen 
 because they got in the way more than they helped. Exotic is definitely the way to go if you want 
 to win, although you can drive pretty much what you like. The game is really easy untill you unlock 
 Silverton and then Darius's crew gets hard too. I tried forever to beat Darius, but my maxed out 
 Lambo Mercialargo couldn't due. It breezed through the pre-races, but in the canyon I would always 
 loose by a few points. So I decided to by a Mitshibishi Evo and upgraded it all the way. It was 
 really hard to win the pre-races, but when I got in the canyon I beat Darius the first time. In 
 career I used the Alfa-Romao for my first car, won Wolf's Aston-Martin, then bought a Lamborghini 
 Mercialargo, then to beat Darius I used a Mitshibisht Evo. The Audi Le-Mans Quattro you win is 
 awesome, but you can't customize it and only use it in quick races.
  Challenge Series is ok, but since I'm bad at escaping cops, trying to escape with a dumptruck, 
 a loose shelby or ill-handling old chevy is pretty much impossible. I also can't play online, so 
 looking at the Porsche 911 GT2 i COULD unlock is just cruel. I've beaten the career mode, played 
 all the quick races, and completed 90% off the challenge series and still a bunch of aftermarket 
 stuff is still locked, oh well.
  I have the collector's edition, so it has some more races, an awesome Koinsegge CCX, ok Chevy Camero 
 concept, and some other stuff.
  (I know I can't spell any car names)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: phoenixcadet
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 8, 2008 10:39 pm PT
Review:  I played this game on another computer and it was an awesome game. The ability to customize your 
 car is cool but, does it improve the cars performance or just the appearance. I wish the demo had 
 more than 3 cars and 3 tracks which is as far as I got in the game. The canyon drive is very hard 
 to e since I'd always crash or get overtaken by the other car. I like driving at night with headlights 
 on and seeing the taillights glow when I brake. I think it would be a better idea to buy the real 
 game with a disk with no viruses but, the demo is good to get to see if you will like it. My favorite 
 to date is Need for Speed Most Wanted Demo and it can be played on Vista no problem for me. I don't 
 understand how these downloads can contain viruses but, when I downloaded demo from Gamespot for 
 5 hours and could not play due to 3 Trojan Horse Viruses, it was a total let down. fix it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chilotibufanti
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 24, 2008 11:52 am PT
Review:  
  Carbon as well know is 10th in the series and how the number 10 is a round sum he thought it would 
 be an exceptional game.
  The first step that made me say that carbon will be played was that .... is the night! all I wanted 
 after a day on the most wanted is night! The bad thing: No neon! Why EA? 
  Well get over it skipping arcade as it otherwise would not have sense: D and find out that there 
 is Milestones events, ah good. But even so the gameplay takes 
  approximately 5 hours , you just get the game and immediately got 100% career completion. oh no: 
 (.
  I do not have anything to reproach than the canyon duels are stupid you can not use NOS in them 
 and see how you lose everything after flying from the mountain, that ruined the whole game! Online 
 has saved some fun ways through which they own but rest ... I hope the review justify the score. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ayasdutta
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 20, 2008 7:07 pm PT
Review:  I have been a great fan of the need for speed series from its inception. I was up in the skies 
 when i was playing need for speed most wanted cos its a hell of a game. And I was very eager when 
 I heard about need for speed carbon since some previews stated that it will be like nfs most wanted.
 
  
  But dame them they were wrong to the last bit. Need for speed Carbon had nothing special about 
 it. Only special thing about the game was the cars. The rest I dont know how to express.
  
  to begin with the game was way too short. I finished it in two days. Unbelievable. The graphics 
 was mediocre and the sounds were hollow. The worst part of the game I feel is the storyline. When 
 I saw cross at the beginning i thought the ones who wrote the previews were right but as the game 
 went on everything fell apart. The ugliest thing was the retelling of the same story in different 
 angles. I couldn't believe my eyes when I saw the same thing being repeated over and over again.
 
  
  Some race modes such a the canyon races sucked big time. The police were like dummies hobbling 
 about the city when it came to cop chases. I dont know how to rate this game but for the namesake 
 of need for speed i give it a 7. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dhruv7000
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 5, 2008 3:39 am PT
Review:  The Need for Speed Carbon game is the best in its series. A lot was expected from Need for Speed 
 Prostreet but it disappointed many NFS fans and that's why NFS Carbon still rules. The game has 
 excellent graphics, good audio and almost awesome game play only if they had added a feature like 
 NFS Underground 2-search for shops.
  The game has a huge city called Palmont city. All the action takes place only during the night. There 
 are in-built gps systems in cars and also a unique feature in which you cannot conquer the whole 
 city in one go, you have to take over a small territory first. If you get into someone else's territory 
 then might challenge you to a race in which you can choose the finish. If you create a chaos in 
 the city by ramming and breaking things like buildings, gas stations and lots more the, the cops 
 will chase you. If you even break the speed limit its the cops who are going to chase you. It also 
 includes a new unique feature called Autosculpt. Unlike other NFS games in which customisation was 
 limited [you could only choose specific car parts] In NFS Carbon you can sculpt the cars body parts 
 and even customise your selected vinyls. It still lacks a few things like neon lights searching 
 for shops on your own and it get a little boring when you approach the ending of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paulitis
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 18, 2008 10:46 am PT
Review:  Need for Speed: Carbon is another street racing game from EA Games. Now when ProStreet is the latest 
 game in series and new Undercover is coming up in few months Carbons is till addictive. 
  
  Offcourse as always in Need for Speed series the game is arcade style. But as always it features 
 some elments of Simulation like - When u hit a wall your cars colours comes of. And offcourse how 
 without cops? Carbon features some cops, but it's very easy to avoid cop chases. One of the new 
 things in Carbon is that your u have the option to "teleport". It's not liek it sounds like. You 
 can jump from one race to other even if it is other side of the town. Thus making it alot esier 
 to avoid police chases. Only place where u could gte in cop chases are races. Evene if u restart 
 race the cops will be in the same place in the race time, so no way to avoid this. Carbon is set 
 in city called "Palmont City". When you are on Canyon u can even see the city where Most Wanted 
 was set and Underground 2 - Rockport and Bayview respectivly. 
  
  Game's difficulity level is very and i mean it very low. Actualy if you have the time u can finish 
 Carbon in one day. Carbon's progress is set in procent's. It'; s almost like when you finish one 
 race you get 2% progress trough game. The only actual difficult races are the last races where 
 you have to take about five races in a row. Facing the bosses racers is pretty easy but the boss 
 itself Kenji is not so easy to beat. 
  
  Carbon features the same old types of races - Sprint, Race, Speedtrap, Checkpoint, Drift and Cop 
 chase races witch are not in carrear mode. There also are two new race modes called "Canyon Race", 
 "Canyon Duel" and "Canyon Drift" . In Canyon Race you have to race three (sometimes one) opponent 
 in a canyon. It's abit harder than the standart race coz you can fall of the edge of cliff and 
 then the race is over for you. Canyon Duel is featured in all boss races. you have to stay behing 
 enemy and not fall too much distance away from him. And Canyon drift is the same old drift on a 
 canyon, offcourse be caution for the cliffs. 
  
  The game can keep u enterteined for some hour but when you get the racing basics and the stotyline 
 there isnt realy anything much more to explore. Also there wouldnt be any need to replay the game, 
 well only maybe coz you would like to play in other cars. There also is a feature to change your 
 cars grip. For drift you should set the lowest grip, but for races the highest. 
  
  Carbon's graphic are very good for 2006 and well they are not very far from realistic. The cae 
 details are amazing. Only EA could of do more work on the building details and other city things. 
 Game's soundtrack is as always very good it features some tracks in more rock style to hip hop. 
 And it realy makes u feel the game. Also there are some cutscenes (most of them are in first 20% 
 of game) .
  
  Basicly if you are a Need for Speed fan than this is defenetly a must buy. Even a non NFS and race 
 fan could try this or rent it. Or if you want more freedome and more details you can just buy Test 
 Drive Unlimited.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: afwsl2003
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 14, 2008 6:38 am PT
Review:  I have been a great fan of the need for speed series from its inception. I was up in the skies 
 when i was playing need for speed most wanted cos its a hell of a game. And I was very eager when 
 I heard about need for speed carbon since some previews stated that it will be like nfs most wanted.
 
  
  But dame them they were wrong to the last bit. Need for speed Carbon had nothing special about 
 it. Only special thing about the game was the cars. The rest I dont know how to express. 
  
  to begin with the game was way too short. I finished it in two days. Unbelievable. The graphics 
 was mediocre and the sounds were hollow. The worst part of the game I feel is the storyline. When 
 I saw cross at the beginning i thought the ones who wrote the previews were right but as the game 
 went on everything fell apart. The ugliest thing was the retelling of the same story in different 
 angles. I couldn't believe my eyes when I saw the same thing being repeated over and over again. 
 
  
  Some race modes such a the canyon races sucked big time. The police were like dummies hobbling 
 about the city when it came to cop chases. I dont know how to rate this game but for the namesake 
 of need for speed i give it a 7. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SYdoggXxX
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 3, 2008 10:59 am PT
Review:  You gotta hand it to the Need for Seed development team; despite being pushed to release a new 
 installment every year, they always somehow manage to come up with something that feels different, 
 even if they occasionally f*ck up. NFS Carbon is the successor to the hugely successful (and personal 
 favorite of mine) , NFS Most Wanted. Most Wanted was a high point for the series, since it refined 
 the formula that had made the previous games enjoyable, to near perfection. It had a great story 
 (seriously) , great racing mechanics, unique race types, and most importantly, it brought back the 
 excitement of outrunning the law in a big way. With Most Wanted being such a success, Carbon had 
 a tough job delivering a worthy sequel that met the standards established by Most Wanted. Surprisingly, 
 Carbon manages to live up to those standards... but not without constantly shooting itself in the 
 foot. With Carbon we have a game full of neat ideas, some of which were very well implemented, 
 while others were not. Overall though, the game is very enjoyable, and it manages to be more than 
 just "an experience worth trying", but an experience that's actually memorable.
  
  The story in Carbon picks up right where Most Wanted finished, with you escaping from the police 
 and fleeing out of Rockport in search of new territory, having reached legendary status amongst 
 the police's most wanted list (the Blacklist) . Unfortunately for you, your old buddy Cross (one 
 of your rivals from Most Wanted) won't let you off so easily and is still in pursuit of you. The 
 game starts with Cross chasing you, and inevitably, your car gets totaled, Cross gets a hold of 
 you, and you're introduced to a new set of rivals, whom you'll have to defeat as you attempt to 
 take over the city. While the story isn't as engrossing as the one in Most Wanted, it's still enjoyable 
 and not without a few twists. For one, the hot girl isn't on your good side (played by Emmanuelle 
 Vaugier) right from the startup, since she's actually your ex-girlfriend. Though she's forced to 
 help you at the beginning, she wastes no time showing her dislike for your actions when you left 
 Palmont City (it's assumed this was your old turf) . Carbon's story centers itself around the night 
 you left Palmont City, were a mysterious incident occurred in which you were the only who managed 
 to flee from the police, while taking a nice bounty for yourself. Throughout the game, more tidbits 
 around this event will be revealed. The story manages to be captivating and as was the case in 
 Most Wanted, is delivered through some excellent FMV sequences, which for the most part are hilarious 
 (intentionally and unintentionally) .
  
  Carbon spices up the NFS formula by shifting the focus of the game from evading the cops or climbing 
 the ranks, to gaining territory. You will compete with rival gangs for small territories, while 
 slowly gaining control of the whole city. In order to take over a small territory you have to win 
 2 of the 3 races in that territory. Once you've taken enough territories within a district, you 
 can challenge the gang's boss. These boss races are 2 stage events, a normal race across the city 
 and a canyon duel.
  
  Canyon duels are the main new race type introduced in Carbon. The setup is simple; you and your 
 opponent start at the top of a canyon, and on the first round, you'll start behind your opponent, 
 trying to keep your distance. The second round is the opposite, with you being the chased. In this 
 races you're not allowed to use your NOS or your time breaker, so passing your opponent isn't as 
 easy as in a normal race. But if you manage to do that and stay in front for 10 seconds (or if 
 you manage to pull away far enough) , you'll instantly win. It's a neat concept and it provides 
 a real challenge. Unfortunately it's also the source of immense frustration, because for some unforeseeable 
 reason, the developers decided that if you fail in the second stage of the race, you have to start 
 all the way from the first stage. I'm gonna quote Yahtzee Crosshaw by saying that "this aspect 
 of the game can f*ck right off!". As if the high difficulty wasn't daunting enough, you'll have 
 to put up with the prospect of repeating those damn things over and over again. Fortunately, with 
 the right car and the right tuning, it's always possible to quickly overtake your opponent and 
 pull of the 10 second getaway win.
  
  However that's not the only frustrating aspect of Carbon. At the start of the game you'll be given 
 the chance to choose what type of car you want to start your career with. The choice you make determines 
 which district you'll start in as well which upgrades you'll unlock first. Given my preference 
 for well balanced cars, I chose an Exotic car, which meant I started in the district dominated 
 by Wolf's gang, TFK. The races leading up to the battle with Wolf provided no problems at all, 
 but once I encountered Wolf, it was a battle to no avail. The reason for this was that Wolf's ride 
 was simply too powerful for my sucker of a car, and unfortunately, due to the unlocks associated 
 with this district, I had no access to either a better car that could pull the trick, nor better 
 upgrades that could even up the battle. Believe it or not I was forced to restart my career and 
 choose a Tuner car instead of an Exotic. Starting in the downtown district proved to be much better 
 since not only did I have access to better upgrades and one particularly excellent car (the RX-7) , 
 but the district's boss, Kenji, wasn't impossible to beat. From there on, it was a smooth ride 
 through the other two districts. The second encounter with Wolf went ahead with no hiccups. While 
 it didn't take long for me to recover my lost progress in the career mode, it's still unforgivable 
 that the game would put you in such a situation.
  
  Putting those issues aside, once the racing is up and going, it's a blast. NFS Carbon introduces 
 a crew element (due to the turf wars you'll engage in) , where you'll be able to hire different 
 drivers across your career and select them as your wingmen during races. This is a really excellent 
 addition to the game. Wingmen come in three varieties: blockers, drafters, and scouts. Blockers 
 will interfere in any nearby rival path at your request, drafters will provide a chance to get 
 a speed boost by drafting them and getting the correspondent slingshot effect, while scouts will 
 highlight any available shortcuts. While none of their roles are essential to victory, they can 
 provide some crucial help when things get hairy, but the best aspect of the wingmen is that as 
 members of your crew, if they win a race, you win. When you consider that in every previous NFS 
 game, it was you against the world, it's nice to have some real help on the road for once.
  
  Another great feature is your ability to neatly tweak for your car's performance. It's not 
 just upgrades that you'll install, you'll be able to specifically tune your car for different situations. 
 Whether it's better acceleration, high top speed, drifting, better handling around corners, all 
 those elements can be tweaked to your liking. This allows you to tune your car for specific events, 
 which can sometimes be the difference between victory or defeat.
  
  Carbon's emphasis on enhancing the actual racing means that the cops' role in the game has been 
 greatly downgraded. While the cops are here, and they'll get in your way should cause too much 
 trouble, police chases are few and far between. While this may seem like a step backward, with 
 the focus on the game not being evading the police, I felt that Carbon succeeded at distinguishing 
 itself from Most Wanted by making the standard racing much more enjoyable (in Most Wanted the racing 
 felt more like a chore at certain times, when compared to the exciting police chases) .
  
  The career mode in NFS Carbon is much shorter than the one found in all previous NFS installments. 
 This is both due to a smaller number of races, as well as an overall lesser level of difficulty, 
 particularly in the initial three districts, where you'll raise hell along with your crew. Unfortunately 
 the difficulty curve in Carbon goes way up once you enter the fourth and final district. This really 
 breaks the flow of the game quite a bit and can lead to plenty of frustrating moments. But what 
 really feels like a slap in the face is the final boss encounter in the game. This is a multiple 
 race event, which consists of 4 races, two against the three crew leaders you had previously beaten, 
 and two against the final crew leader. The first two races aren't too hard, but the last two are 
 insanely difficult. However none of this would be too bad if it wasn't for the fact that the game 
 will force you to do all four races in one shot. Should you decide to take a break and exit the 
 game before finishing all four races, you'll be forced to start from scratch. This terrible design 
 issue prevents Carbon from ending with a bang, and don't be surprised if you end up watching the 
 final credits on YouTube, rather than on the game itself.
  
  The presentation in NFS Carbon is top notch. The game uses the same graphics engine as in Most 
 Wanted, and while the permanent night setting doesn't help to provide as impressive visuals as 
 those found in Most Wanted, they're still pretty sharp. Cars in particular look spectacular, and 
 there's a great attention to detail spread across the city. One aspect however that I personally 
 didn't like, is the unrealistic trail effect that cars leave as they cruise around the city. It 
 just doesn't look good at all, leading to a more cartoony, over the top look. Overall though, the 
 graphics are awesome. The sound is great too, as has been in every previous NFS game. Cars sound 
 realistic, the music selection is good (though it seems underused at times since during most races 
 you'll hear the same tune over and over) , and the voice acting during the FMV sequences is solid.
 
  
  Need for Speed Carbon feels a bit rough around the edges, but it succeeds at distinguishing itself 
 from its amazing predecessor, something that is no small feat. Terrible design issues aside, this 
 game provides an excellent racing experience that fans of the series as well as new players will 
 thoroughly enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 3Dmajid2008
Rating: 7
Date: May 23, 2008 12:02 pm PT
Review:  Need for speed carbon is same most wanted with a little changes. Ofcourse i love Mostwanted more 
 ! Carbon's Movies are really masterpiece because they mixed Film and Animation together ! I haven't 
 seen any game movies that made it like this. Some sound effects in the game isn't natural , like 
 when you brake. Carbon's graphic is nice and story not bad.
  Its very good that carbon's levels aren't very long as Mostwanted that be tedious. Carbon's has 
 changed than last version when you want to make you'r car and added good features. A bad infirmity 
 that I saw in Carbon is car damage. They should notice to it more. When you collision to a car 
 in city when you have top speed , only you'r car glass break.
  Totally Carbon is a good game as car driving but they can to make it better , they must notice 
 to detail more. Of course I know that EA has made Pro Street that is next version of Crbon. But 
 it is so spoof and I talk about Carbon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hedgy1
Rating: 9
Date: May 17, 2008 6:31 pm PT
Review:  I got this game because it looked really cool. I was, for the most part, very impressed by the 
 game.
  
  Graphics: 8/10: the graphics were good, but some of it was too "comic booky" for me. Had nice effects, 
 but i actually preferred the game without motion blur on. One of the effects gave me a 17 average 
 frame rate drop to turn the roads blue. Whatever, they're still nice. Pretty.
  
  Gameplay: 9/10: Very fun, at least until you finish the game. Once you hit that point, getting 
 more money is a huge hassle, races only give you 500 bucks. Which doesn't cut it. Either way, whatever 
 I played, it was always enjoyable and I only thought that what I was doing was pointless once or 
 twice. Where the game really shines, though, was with the cop chases, they are really fun and I 
 loved comparing chase lengths with my friends.
  
  Sound: 9/10: The sound was good, very satisfying, but, once again, I have weird compatablity with 
 my speakers. Probably my sound card, so I'm not going to dock points for that. I just thought that 
 they could've picked better music to play at times. Otherwise, good sound
  
  Story: 6/10: LAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAME plot, but that doesn't really matter, because it's a racing game. 
 NO docked points here.
  
  Overall: 9/10: Very fun. Plainly put. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mircea_calarasu
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 30, 2008 2:26 pm PT
Review:  I don't know why Carbon is getting such low marks on reviews but in my opinion its quite good actually. 
 Back when NFS: UG2 was released I was totally excited about it and it met all my expectations. It 
 was a comparatively long, story driven game. Then came Most Wanted. I was excited about this too. 
 But somehow it wasn't satisfying to me. I mean there were some cool new additions, like bringing 
 the police back and all, but you usually associate illegal street racing with night time right? 
 So the mid-day mode didn't suite the game at all (my opinion) . And also I didn't find the game 
 addictive. Sure I was excited in the beginning, when I recieved the game, but gradually the excitement 
 just thinned away. Overall it didn't let me down but neither did it live up to the image I was 
 hoping for. And, now, Need For Speed : Carbon has arrived. When I first looked at the ratings, 
 I couldn't believe my eyes, 6.7! How can a need for speed game get such a low score? I mean after 
 all the development of these games were going so well. I couldnt belive it. I had to experience 
 the game myself. So I bought the game and let me tell you the ratings don't do justice to the game, 
 believe me. The game is highly addictive and immersive (despite the cheesy lines by the actors) . 
 Its really an enjoyable game. The game picks up where Most Wanted ended (which I wouldnt know as 
 I didnt complete the game) but even for the players who haven't played Most Wanted its easy to 
 pick up the story (atleast it was so with me) . The night-time mode is back which really creates 
 a great atmosphere for the street races. This time around you've got partners to help you out in 
 the races. The great thing is that its not necessary for you to win each and every race, if your 
 partner wins you win. And the partners aren't bad either they have their own strenghts. You probably 
 already know the details of the partners so I will just skip on. Its not necessary for you travel 
 all the way from one end of the city to another to start in a race, you can just open up the world 
 map select a racing event and just jump to the racing event (without having to travelling all the 
 way to participate) . The game is easy to pick up and play and it shouldnt take long for you to 
 adjust to the driving settings. The graphics are stunning (as expected) and the new canyon races 
 are an excellent addition (althought it can get a bit irritaing sometimes) . I found drafting race 
 types to be very hard this time around. This time around we have to capture territories which can 
 be done by just winning 2 races out of the available 3 of a particular part of the the terrirtory 
 and thus allowing us to gain territories. There are still other neat features about which I haven't 
 discussed yet but will do so later on but overall this game deserves a game rating of atleast 8.0 
 to do it justice. For me it loses points for not utilizing the police chases as extensively as 
 they should have and on the fact that it felt too short (also the soundtracks weren't good at all) . 
 So for those of you who haven't tried out Most Wanted yet then just directly go for this package, 
 it will be much more staisfying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WonderBread88
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 24, 2008 11:09 pm PT
Review:  Storyline: 7.5 - Great carry-over of story. Typically secuals are not seen, story wise, in the 
 racing genre. Picks up where the other left off only with a bit more drama. 
  
  Graphics/Physics: 8.5 - Graphics live up to everything and more in the racing genre. Carbon has 
 a darker more shadowy touch than its previous game setting. Car damage still doesn't effect gameplay 
 much. Fantastic cut-scenes, very realistic people even with the cartoony touch added.
  
  Sound: 8.5 - Pretty good choice in the soundtrack, a few "ewws" and a few "ahhs". Great car and 
 racing sounds, very realistic.
  
  Environment/Maps: 5 - Maps all seem overly dark or shadowed. Racetracks are way to winding and 
 turny for my relaxed preference.
  
  Game Engine/Scripting: 7 - Police seem like their always on your tail and they don't ever seem 
 to stop. Bosses are indeed much to difficult and ends up being more annoying than rewarding. Car 
 handling and performance is top notch as usual.
  
  Interface: 9 - Need for Speeds typical interface is still around, never fails at being ultra easy 
 to learn and control. Tons of customizable upgrades and tuneups is always a huge plus. Good choice 
 of Makes and models to choose from.
  -----------------------------------------------
  
  Overall: 7 - Night time setting along with overly winding roads doesn't mix well. Tons of tuneups 
 and upgrades makes it enjoyable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dimentedduck
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 10, 2008 5:18 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game, especially good for one of the games just pumped out by EA, but there are 
 also many problems. Its story is good, but doesn't immerse you. At least it has a story compared 
 to most racing games. Now its time to complain. Your name can only be a few letters long and can 
 not have spaces. I can't even type in my full name, and its shorter than most. And theres the crew 
 name. The logos are fun to play around with, but your crew's team name can not have spaces either. 
 So give up your super sick street names. They won't fit. Last and least, your saved game files 
 are constantly getting deleted if you play on them, and when you want to remove a racer, you can't. 
 Oh yea. Even though it says the game's cars are "fully customizable" it won't let you customize 
 any of the NICE cars. Only buy this game if you REALLY like street racing games or find one for 
 free. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seansoutar
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 22, 2008 1:30 am PT
Review:  Need for Speed Carbon is a pleasant game to play. There have been many very good, good and disappointing 
 Need for Speeds. Up to this very time Need for Speed Most Wanted still takes the crown, but more 
 of that later. Carbon has its pros and cons just like any other racing games. The good thing about 
 this one there is a more high-end range cars for the game and more of a variety. It is classified 
 into three classes tuner, muscle and exotic. The tuners are Japanese made cars like Mazda and this 
 type is the easiest to drive in the game. The muscles are the American made cars like the Dodge 
 Viper and they are normally awesome in straights but lack real potential for going around corner. 
 The exotics are your Lamborghini and they are the most difficult type to drive in the game but 
 they have overall very good speed and handling. As far as graphics goes, excellent. Customization 
 options well excellent again. I was really disappointed with the cop chases and the story though. 
 Need for Speed Most Wanted kind of put you into the game with its story got you involved. This 
 version well is boring. The cop chases is useless. It gives you really no benefit in the end of 
 a cop chase unlike Most Wanted. So all in all this game is very good. Recommended for a Need for 
 Speed fan , but may be disappointed by its major flaws. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thatmy
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 18, 2008 10:41 pm PT
Review:  A good game which is not to be missed and I bought this game a year later together with pro street 
 but pro street sucks! And this game does not has any hardware PC components issue except my PC! 
 iMAO! Momentarily freezes when any cars is in motion of high speed. Freezing does not occur when 
 the cars are at zero motion or low speed. Problem occured after I reformat and reinstall the OS. 
 First time install and play NFS Carbon, no problem at all. 
  
  Here is my PC specs :
  Intel Pentium D 935 3.2Mhz 
  Asus Geforce 8500GT 256MB
  Gigabyte GA-G31M-S2L
  2 x Kingston 
 DDR2 667mhz 1GB
  Western Digital 320GB 16MB 
  Windows Vista 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cornel_72
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 18, 2008 11:58 am PT
Review:  Need for Speed Carbon, which refers to Carbon Canyon where racers duel for territory in the city 
 below, is a minor shake-up for the series, shifting in new features, shifting out others, while 
 continuing the FMV-heavy story-telling from Most Wanted. Carbon, in other words, is a decent update 
 to last year's game with improved graphics, excellent Autosculpt customization, a different progression 
 system, and an all-around solid take on the game. It's not revolutionary, it's not brilliant, but 
 it's good, deep racing. 
  
  
  
  Meet your former girl friend. Hah!
  Near Carbon Copy
  Carbon is an arcade-style racer that plays, in general, a lot like other Need 
 for Speed games. It provides four camera perspectives (two in-car, two over-the-shoulder) , a 10-14 
 hour single-player campaign, and a series of mini-challenges based on collecting racing cards. 
 The Career mode is the meat and potatoes of the game, comprising a city split into four territories 
 plus hilly canyon races outside the city. Players can pick from three different car classes, exotics, 
 tuners, and muscles (the muscles being the new addition) , which broadens the game's middle-of-the-road 
 feel in a smart, controlled manner. The four new features offered in Carbon comprise a crew, a 
 unique autosculpt customization, drifting races and additional car classes. One of the bigger additions 
 is the online functionality. It enables from 1-8 players to vie online on Xbox 360, PS3, and PC, 
 whereas the Xbox, PS2 and GameCube versions don't offer online compatibility. 
  
  The Career mode follows last year's trippy FMV-based narrative. Because of the addition of crews 
 or because EA wanted to go even heavier into its presentation (which it often does at the expense 
 of improving gameplay) , the game is filled with cutscenes and pasty, well-coiffed well-dressed 
 gearheads. Last year's game was basic. Razor was your enemy, he was a first-class dick, and he 
 rigged your car. You had to seek revenge and it felt good because he was a no-good bully. This 
 year's narrative is watered down, with more forced mystery behind a rather simple premise. The 
 novelty of the specialized FMV cutscenes is still moderately entertaining, but because of EA's 
 excesses it comes across as strained, and there are simply too many dudes with perfect eyebrows 
 and mullets for my tastes. Clearly Emmanuelle Vaugier needs a little more direction and some more 
 meat to reach her potential. Meanwhile Josie Maran had far more fun and showed far more skin in 
 her role in Most Wanted.
  
  
  
  The boss races in the canyons are neither great nor horrible, they just are.
  Hot girls aside 
 (and let's just be honest here, they're all great looking women) , the game drives differently than 
 before. Sure, it's still an accessible arcade game in which cars don't take any damage; it's still 
 Need for Speed. But the addition of muscle cars and high-end tuners really alter the normal feel 
 that's common in the NFS series. (See Real Muscle below for more details.) The game starts out 
 at a normal pace and it gradually enables you to more earn enhancements. Cars are split into classes, 
 but also tiers. There are three tiers, staring with tier one. The second tier is faster, and the 
 third tier is insanely fast. You won't believe how powerful and quickly these final-tier cars drive. 
 NFS still runs at a modest 30 FPS with some framerate variation, though the game doesn't hitch 
 like Most Wanted. 
  
  Progress
  Carbon's progression system is similar to THQ's Saint's Row. This is a good thing for the most 
 part. You start off as a nobody who once had it all but lost it, and you must start all over again. 
 You begin by choosing a car class. Since I've played this series for like eight years now, to experience 
 NFS in a different light I choose a muscle car, a Camaro SS. Muscle cars tend to be classic American 
 cars, thus they have big, fat V8s, they drive like dragsters with great acceleration and top speeds. 
 But they handle like merde. No difference here, at least at first. If you decide the first car 
 you chose was a bad decision, win races and beat bosses, and you'll earn money to buy new cars. 
 Or, like last year, after you beat a boss you can pick from a set of random cards, one of which 
 is the boss's pink slip.
  
  There are 40-plus cars to earn or unlock. Other muscle cars include the new Mustang GT, the Dodge 
 Charger SRT8, and the old Dodge Charger RT. While we're on the subject, the tuners feature the 
 Mazda Speed3, RX-7, RX-8, Eclipse GT, and Lotus Elise for starters. The tuners comprise the Alpha 
 Brera and Mercedes CLK 500, and a variety of PorsEach territory is made of a number of sections. 
 In each section you'll see about three to four races. You'll need to win each race to win a section 
 and, from there, move in on a full territory. Each territory is controlled by another gang, overseen 
 by their leader, who visits you from time to time as you creep into their space. While fighting 
 for territory, a rival gang may challenge you to a section you own. There are two choices, accept 
 the challenge or reject it. If you race and win, it's yours. If you lose, you can always re-try. 
 This function works better in Saints Row because the actual fighting was different each time. In 
 Carbon, you simply race the same territory as before, and instead of feeling like a real challenge, 
 it's a chore. A new race or a different take on a race would have sufficed. Once you take over 
 a full territory the boss appears and challenges you. You'll race once against the boss, and then 
 take it to Carbon Canyon for a two-leg race.
  
  The two-part race takes place on steep narrow canyon roads built with huge S-turns and pliable 
 railings that give way to spectacular deaths if you mess up. The first race involves following 
 the boss as closely as possible. Your score is based on your proximity. In the second race he follows 
 you. Whoever gets the high score wins, as long as nobody has driven off the canyon walls beforehand. 
 Honestly, the first city race is usually harder than the canyon races, and in at least two of the 
 canyon races I was able to surge ahead of the boss in the first race, maintain the lead of about 
 five seconds, and beat him in a single route. The boss races in Most Wanted were tougher and more 
 complicated and thus more fun. These are different, but the final outcome is that the experience 
 is just OK. It's like a sideways move. These boss races are different than before, but like Gertrude 
 Stein said about Oakland, there is no there there. Plus, there are only four boss races, whereas 
 in Most Wanted there were 15. 
  
  
  
  The crew is another so-so additon.
  2NewCrew
  Ripped straight from EA's NASCAR series is this year's "crew" feature. The crew is introduced through 
 and integrated into the storyline. The rag-tag crew of hopefuls are neither terribly funny nor 
 that interesting. They're all kind of creepy, to be honest. But that really doesn't matter. It's 
 what they do, or don't do, that matters. And what they do is little. There are three types, drafters, 
 scouts and blockers. Drifters provide a physical trail of color enabling you to follow them to 
 slingshot ahead. Their problem is that the courses don't provide enough straight-aways to use them 
 effectively enough and if you're fast enough you'll eliminate their usefulness. Scouts find shortcuts 
 hidden on your map. They find shortcuts that normally appear in NFS games without the need for 
 a scout, so they eliminate the joy of discovering them on your own. Blockers cause chaos. They 
 block opponents from creeping up on you. They function well enough and of the three types, they're 
 the most useful. 
  
  But the addition of a crew is another sideways move. The triple-headed crew actually brings in 
 more problems than benefits to Carbon. Crew members regularly will get in your way; they'll slow 
 you down and perhaps even ruin a real chance of winning. They also win races for you. For some 
 people that might be a benefit. For me, I just felt like my experience was tampered with. The crew 
 is also always talking to you. It's like Halo's Cortana is there, except instead it's some mullet-headed 
 fat dude. You'll eventually get as many as six different members available for hire, but in the 
 end I prefer not having them at all.
  
  Real Muscle
  EA's decision to take advantage of Ford's newly remade Mustang and Dodge's Charger is both opportunistic 
 and smart. Along with the online options, the addition of muscle cars is the biggest single change 
 the series has seen in core gameplay in years. The muscle cars drive differently than any other 
 car in the series and they affect the series in a central way.
  
  In Underground 2 EA tried to incorporate SUVs but with little success. The muscles are different. 
 These cars rock. They have huge up-front power and great top speeds. And, true to life, they handle 
 like crap. But hey, everyone liked Starsky and Hutch, right? I mean look at Driver the game. It's 
 built on sliding '70s hot rods. Still, EA has designed the muscle cars and the courses to work 
 together and better than in almost any other racer. Driving them is more like driving a rally car 
 on 100% pavement all the time. You have to start early and slide into each turn. The real reward 
 is modifying these beasts as you progress. The upgrades tighten the handling and cornering. The 
 top speeds and acceleration increase even further. And the ride is totally different than driving 
 either the tuners or the exotics. Try driving a muscle and then switch to the tuners, and you'll 
 see the difference right away.
  
  
  
  The variances between muscles, exotics and tuners is distinct.
  Catch That Drift
  EA Black 
 Box brought back drifting, replacing the drag racing from Most Wanted and it's a fully acquired 
 taste. Drifting isn't for everyone. EA uses a totally unique engine for the drifting races and 
 you'll notice the handling and physics right away. Each of the classes -- muscle, exotic, and tuner 
 -- drift differently. Luckily, if you dislike drifting, there isn't too much of it in Carbon (whic 
 was the case in Carbon) . Unfortunately, if you hate it, you'll find it difficult to avoid altogether.
 
  
  EA designed drift races to function so that emphasis is placed on skill and combos. Each player 
 must achieve the top score against his rivals. The best combos are created by attaining the highest 
 possible speed, keeping your car in the yellow paint (next to the walls) for as long as possible, 
 and linking combos together. Do it in a tuner and then try a muscle car. It's quite a difference. 
 Or try a tier three exotic. They're all completely distinct skill sets. 
  
  Online Power
  EA eschewed adding online functionality on the current generation systems and has instead focused 
 on making it work well on Xbox 360, PS3 and PC. While that sucks for current gen owners, it's good 
 news for next-gen and PC systems owners. (And, for the record, Most Wanted wasn't online for PS2 
 anyway.) We played the Xbox 360 retail build against EA today for about two hours and the experience 
 was surprisingly fun. EA's servers still may very well cause problems (we'll have to wait to experience 
 this once the retail build is in hundreds of gamers' hands) , but our retail builds played well. 
 
  
  Onlie matches permit up to eight gamers to race simultaneously. They consist of two race types 
 with a few variations, Pursuit Tag and Pursuit Knockout. Pursuit Tag consists of one racer against 
 all cops. The racer's goal is to avoid the cop cars for as long as possible. The player with the 
 highest points (and time logged) as the civilian racer wins. To get the chance to be the civilian 
 racer you must be the first to bust him or her.
  
  
  
  The graphics and sound are improved over Most Wanted.
  Pursuit Knockout is even more fun. This 
 is a lap racewith cops. Everyone starts out as a civilian and the last person to finish the first 
 lap transforms into a cop car. As the cop, your goal is to chase down and make as much contact 
 as possible with the other non-cop cars. In other words, as a cop you get to smash the crap out 
 of the other cars. In a nice bonus, the normal colored barriers that prevent you from exploring 
 the city in a race don't matter to cop cars. So, you can out-maneuver the speeder by hitting him 
 head-on. The only issue here is that the speeders are really wily, fast, and a lot harder to hit 
 than you might think. Quite quickly several of our games turned into insanely comedic Blues Brothers 
 scenarios. It was humiliating/hysterical to see the inane blunders! You might think you had a speeder 
 cornered with a head-on and then he fakes right, goes left, and instead of a killer point-grabbing 
 knockout, you miss him and smash into three oncoming cop cars as the speeder zips by. 
  
  On the next gen systems, you'll also be able to race in a series of cooperative courses with as 
 many as four players. Though these are just basic races, these co-op challenges are like playing 
 with your crew, who happen your friends -- which is twice as fun. Lastly, if you own a Xbox 360, 
 PC or have the chance to buy a PS3, then you can auto sculpt your car to the ultimate level AND 
 bring it online to show it off. 
  
  Graphics and Sound 
  Carbon stands out against Most Wanted. Most Wanted seemed to take place in a fictitious Seattle-like 
 area: There were lots of forests, country by-ways, and lakes that, well, looked like parts of Washington. 
 If you weren't keen on last year's environments, you'll like Carbon. It is a return to the sparkling 
 urban lights of Underground 1 and 2. The game is filled with sparkling lights, darker night levels, 
 and a distinctly urbane look. Special effects adorn the city streets and fast-paced cars. Streams 
 trail off cars to enhance the visual sense of speed. Blur effects are always working to provide 
 a great sensation of velocity. And nox injections will boost the sense of speed even further. Or 
 the speed breakers will slow time down. The customization enables creative control over your cars, 
 which adds to the sense of visuals, and of course, the FMV-filtered characters incorporated into 
 game environments create a distinct visual appeal (even if this year's game over-does it a little) .
 
  
  On the sound side, Carbon takes the over-the-top sound from Most Wanted and gives it a kick in 
 the pants. You'll hear greatly altered engine effects; you'll experience a dramatic set of sonic 
 sounds infused into the cutscenes and transition sequences; you'll hear the sweet in-take of NOX. 
 You'll also hear the realistic cop radio chatter ranging from casual level-one pursuits to level 
 three crackdowns. The music is energetic and turbulent. It increases in volume and intensity as 
 you're being chased by cops, and there is a good mix of rock and techno tunes. 
  Closing Comments
  Need For Speed Carbon isn't a revolutionary game and it's far from a stinker. 
 Instead, it's what EA does best: It creates pretty good games with lots of features. Carbon switches 
 out drag racing and Pacific NorthWest backgrounds for drift racing and inner city urban streets. 
 The freaky FMV filtered stuff is back and there seems to be more than ever (perhaps too much?) . 
 The drifting is an acquired taste (but it's good) , the canyon duals are decent changes (though 
 not great) , and the crews... well, they suck. Of the myriad new features, the addition of muscle 
 cars and the online functionality are the best. The muscle cars bring real challenge and change 
 to the races and the online games (when lag isn't hampering you) are great cop-chase endeavors.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: werewolf79
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 14, 2008 3:29 pm PT
Review:  Overall, I like the game. It has awesome graphics and some pretty intense police chases once you 
 get one going long enough. The wingman feature is a great idea, but I usually only end up using 
 a blocker so all the others are kind of a waste in a way. The canyon duels are just bad and very 
 very hard to do. They are more of an annoyance than anything, now if it was just a flat out race 
 to the bottom and not just chase/lead to win, that would make it so much better.
  
  Like in the other games, you can fully customize your ride, however I wish there was more of a 
 use for having your ride look cool, kind of like what they had in NFS: Underground 1 & 2. There 
 also needs to be more vinyl options, they have had the same ones for a while which is fine because 
 some of them are still kinda cool looking but there needs to be some new stuff as well.
  
  Overall, I have no regrets buying this game, it is a lot of fun and well worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamer_girl_bina
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 9, 2008 4:35 pm PT
Review:  Personally i was never a fan of racing games till i played need for speed! Need for speed carbon 
 is a great game with a lot of different choices. The graphics are really nice and for me the amount 
 of customizable things make it so much more to enjoy! I love making my rides and this game really 
 give you a lot to work with! Unlike some games you can also enjoy online play ... the way you like 
 it. With the ability to chose your type of race and have the ability to play with others makes 
 it more exciting and challenging. Overall great game and I really enjoyed it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jks22112
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 8, 2008 10:59 pm PT
Review:  The Good:
  +Great graphics
  +Cutscenes are AWESOME, still.
  +Racing is just as GOOD as it always was.
  +A load of real cars with pretty good diversity.
 
  +Lots of customization options
  +Cross is back!
  
  The Bad:
  -No need for cop chases
  -Canyon Duels are straight up annoying
  -Racing is just as good at 
 it ALWAYS was.
  
  The Ugly:
  *Who would build a city like this..
  *I'm glad digital Auto Zone will supply me with all these parts.
  *Cross has conrows.
  *Story 
 is cheesy (which isn't necessarily a bad thing)
  *That weird blue haired japanese girl..
  
  Need for Speed as been around for a WHILE now. The main premise has always remained the same. 
 Street racing, with expensive cars. 
  
  Need for Speed: Carbon leaves where the last game left off. You are escaping the last city, where 
 it is daytime, all the time, and coming back to the old city where it is night time, all the time. 
 The game starts off as just about all story based Need for Speed games started off. You start off 
 with an awesome car, something happens to it, you chose from a small selection of not awesome cars, 
 and start from the bottom. 
  
  Carbon has you taking on a few rival gangs, and taking over their turf, by racing them. You have 
 the typical Sprints, Circuits, Speedtraps, Time Trials, and Drifts. Missing is the Drag Racing 
 and knockout races, which they decided to take out. 
  
  New to Carbon is the ability to have a crew, though only one of them races with you. They can help 
 you out by knocking other cars out of the way, giving you a draft, telling you where shortcuts 
 are, ETC. And if they win, you win too. 
  
  Of course you can buy or win a bunch of different cars, ranging from fords, to toyotas, to Aston 
 Martins. Customize them any way you want, and upgrade them.
  
  As you progress you take on a few bosses, by doing what is called a canyon duel. Canyon duels aren't 
 really races at all. You gain points by following closer behind yoru opponent. the closer you are, 
 the more points you gain. Then your opponent has his/her turn to closely follow you and if their 
 points are higher than yours, you lose, and you have to start from the beginning. A little annoying, 
 and not as exciting as they could be. But certinly memorable. 
  
  Need For Speed: Carbon is a good enough title to warrent a purchase. Plainly, if you like Need 
 for Speed, you'll like this game. It's more of the same. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hardheartman
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 26, 2007 5:02 am PT
Review:  Need for Speed: Carbon continues the story from Most Wanted. If in Most Wanted you tried to reach 
 the top of the blacklist, in Carbon you have to conquer Palmont City. The game begins with you 
 entering this new city, after escaping Rockport in Most Wanted. Palmont City is divided in four 
 major areas - Kempton, Downtown, Fortuna and Silverton - each split in several smaller areas. Each 
 territory is owned by a certain racing crew. In order to obtain a territory, you need to complete 
 at least 2 out of 3 races on that territory.
  You get the racing action during nights. The maps in the game like urban streets and canyons roads 
 looks stunning. Graphics are decent and new and the sound is very nice. however I was expecting it 
 to be better then Most Wanted and I was disappointed, the graphics in Most Wanted surpassed that 
 of Carbon. 
  The gameplay is fairly similar to Most Wanted. The races are the same but in different locations. The 
 big addition is the Canyon and drift Races. Need for Speed Carbon its a Very CoOl for Drifting. its 
 like The Fast and The Furious: Tokyo Drift. The Chop Shop was a nice new feature that we have not 
 seen before, allowing you to customize some of the dimensions of body kits as well as the body 
 of the car. The game does have its downfalls, drag racing has been left out, the storyline is average 
 and the game itself is quite short.
  Everything except the canyon races is almost too easy. Overall it was an enjoyable game, but the 
 story mode is too short. Finished it within 2 OR 3 days. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jf
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 5:04 pm PT
Review:  Carbon is amazing in its ability to catch your eye in its visual sights and its thrilling gameplay. 
 This could have been EA's next hit racer but theres plenty of flaws in it that brought it down. 
 First the game has more bugs in it than combinations of customizing. The game crashes almost reguarly 
 when playing, During canyon duel your opponents seem to be impervious to breaking the guardrail 
 no matter how hard you ram them into it, and its autosculpt feature has too few options for it 
 to be the next best thing. There are plenty of things in this game to keep you busy though. The 
 online feature is improved and the cards system can keep you busy for a while until EA releases 
 its next NFS game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tony205
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 20, 2007 2:02 am PT
Review:  NEED FOR SPEED CARBON IS THE COOLEST STREET RACER AT THE MOMENT.
  THE CAREER MOD IS WELL DESIGNED WITH OUTRAGES CUTSCENES.
  ONE OF THE MOST COOL PART OF THE GAME 
 IS THE CUSTOMIZATION [AUTOSPULPT] PART. HERE YOU CAN TUNE  
 THE EXAUST AND VYNILS.
  IN THE GAME THERE ARE 5 TIPES OF  AND CANYON. CANYON RACES 
 ARE VERY HARD BECAUSE THEY ARE NARROW AND WITH MANY CURVES, SPRINT RACES ARE A POINT A TO POINT 
 B RACE AND SPEEDTRAPS ARE RACES WITH THE WINNER BEING THE PLAYER HO HAS THE FASTEST SPEED OVERAL. 
 AT THE MOMENT CARBON IS THE ULTIMATE STREET RACER AND IS A MUST HAVE GAME. I CAN T WAIT PRO STREET!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halokila
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 9, 2007 5:54 pm PT
Review:  the game was very good, but short. i beat all the career races in 5 days, gut the challenges and 
 other stuff has kept me interested. the graphixs are amazing and worth 20 dollars. the multi player 
 mode is very good, even though it is not really active lately. so right now the only thing i do 
 with this game is the challenges and the online mode. overall, this is a good but. when compared 
 to Test Drive Unlimited, this is much better. Ther are more players online in this game than there 
 are in Tess Drive unlimited and Need for Speed Carbon has more customization options and has way 
 better graphixs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: giro786
Rating: 4
Date: Oct 1, 2007 2:31 am PT
Review:  this game is very bad from my point of view
  
  you can say whatever you want about the gameplay or the graphics or the music and the sound
  
 
  but let me ask you a qustion
  
  what are the police chases that made most wanted very polular
  
  there is none ; that is why 
 i hate this game ; no police chase ; what do you want from me ; just take car and make some sprint 
 like in nascar where is the fun of the game ; you killed it by disabeling the only thing that people 
 wer playing the game for
  
  Plice chases
  
  and to make things even worse , there will be also no police chase in pro street , i think i will 
 not buy it also 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aussieboy911
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 22, 2007 5:59 am PT
Review:  nfs carbon in short.......... is short. i finished it in four days and i havent played many nfs 
 games to be a pro even after finishing it.
  
  the cars are incredibly detailed and the the environments are slightly more than passable because 
 of how samey they look. if it had different feels to it like on san andreas los santos was a bit 
 ghetto, san fierro was business and mountinous and las vanturas was las vegas. this lets it down 
 a bit but isnt a total turn off. nitrous doesnt work the way it should with opposition though. 
 it doesnt slingshot you ahead like in midnight club so its much less exciting. turn off motion 
 blur unless you have an incredible video card, and turn up res and other details. but its still 
 a decent racer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: squidney2k1
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 13, 2007 9:23 pm PT
Review:  EA is a company synonymous with mere updated sequels for its titles, but has still managed to secure 
 great sales and success with its franchise hits over the years. As a distaste for the company's 
 practices and gaming development strategies has drawn sentiment against it in the gaming community, 
 it's not hard to understand why. When looking at a title like Need For Speed: Carbon, one can easily 
 understand the thoughts and experiences gamers go through to come to conclusions about Electronic 
 Arts.
  
  Story/Presentation
  The story this time around is unfortunately washed out and disappointing in this year's rendition 
 of the NFS series. Following from the events surrounding the end of last year's Need for Speed: 
 Most Wanted, you return as the unnamed/unidentified racer who has wandered his way back into a 
 city where he obviously has some bad history and isn't very well liked. Right into the story, you 
 find a returning character from Rockport (the city in Most Wanted) who helps add some familiarity 
 to the title for those who played the last one, but also unfortunately adds little to the story 
 development and progression. It's surprising that players will span almost the entire length of 
 the Career mode without knowing what's clearly going on in the game's seemingly non-existent plot. 
 In other titles in the series, EA has managed to fill in a decent storyline to compliment a genre 
 where it's often hard to do so, but this time came up short. Fans of Most Wanted will find it a 
 turn off this time around as the narrative is much less engaging and appears to be more than an 
 afterthought.
  
  Also returning from last year's rendition are the FMV-based cutscenes that drive the story. This 
 year's belle is played by Emmanuelle Vaugier, who adds a surprisingly more down to earth face, 
 but unfortunately falls victim to shallow character design and story. The FMV sequences themselves 
 remain beautifully crafted and characters are much less stereotypical and cheesey this time around, 
 but odd dialog and a storyline villan that lacks flair and tenacity of last year's fan favorite 
 Razor. The dialog is much slower this time around and leaves a bland taste in your mouth, and remains 
 barely enough to help drive the narrative.
  
  The menu system is very user friendly and slightly easier to navigate than in previous title. Different 
 shots of your currently selected vehicle will be shown in real-time as you navigate every menu, 
 and that adds a nice touch as you'll appreciate it in the hours you spend selecting option after 
 option in the car customization menu.
  
  Customization is vast and extensive. The AutoSculpting feature sounds better on paper, as number 
 of parts to sculpt are limited, and unfortunately the same for all cars in a class and most will 
 chose to still with the much more visually stimulating Aftermarket Body Kits. Vinyls are the heart 
 of car customization. Here, you can layer, color, move, rotate, resize, and skew any and every 
 vinyl available to create some impressive or down-right fugly car designs. This especially pays 
 off by being able to customize a crew member's car to match your own, to really drive home the 
 feeling of racing on an actual team. Players will be eager to show off their creations in photo 
 mode and online garages, and it's nice that EA's attention to detail in their presentations of 
 games still remains through thick and thin, and is enough to overcome the horrible and shallow 
 plot. EA's production values save the day once again.
  
  7.5
  
  Graphics
  The most noticeable change EA has made visually is the return to night racing a-la the Underground 
 renditions. While last year's Most Wanted broke the recent trend of the late-night illegal street 
 racing scene, Carbon brings it all back home to Underground where it was first perfected. Unfortunately, 
 some things were left behind.
  
  The environments are filled with neon lights, glowing billboards, parking meters, trash cans, trees, 
 and road construction objects galore. Here's one area EA definitely payed attention to. The physics 
 are impressive as each object hit reacts accordingly, and the attention to detail to include any 
 and every sort of obstacle in a realistic manner is refreshing. It never feels like overkill, and 
 having so many things fill your surroundings helps settle in the feeling of being in a thriving 
 large city-scape environment.
  
  The lighting systems is simple but effective. Headlight cones remain the same for every vehicle, 
 but are enough to light up the road and off to the sides, casting shadows and reflections properly 
 as they should. It is strange to see after-market installed fog-lights not turned on frontal shots 
 of your car, however. The time when the game really gives the thrill to night racing occurs during 
 one of the many Canyon races. These occur on a very curvy 2-lane downhill track located outside 
 the city. Surroundings are dim, but overlooking the city from far down below and reflections from 
 road markers really add a nice touch.
  
  Car models are much more detailed this time around, but seem to be wrapped in a plastic sheen. 
 This become very apparent in races where there are a lot of neon lights sending the games car reflection 
 into an unrealistic mirroring surface. Changing your car's paint scheme from Gloss to Chrome, Candy, 
 or Iridescent only makes this worse as while driving your vehicle will appear more like a disco 
 ball than the beautifully modeled car it once was. Players can slightly remedy this by lowering 
 the Car Detail and Reflection Refresh Rate in the options menu, but having to sacrifice the extra 
 detail hurts. Where the reflections were perfect and vivid in the day-lit scenes of Most Wanted, 
 here, they are an annoyance.
  
  Another visual aspect EA seems to have misimplemented is the game's Motion Blurr. Not only does 
 it not react realistically to the sense of speed while driving (simply turn the option in the Video 
 settings and watch everything onscreen instantly blurr while standing still) , but it also spoils 
 some of the visual flair of the game. Modes become slightly washed out and the environment &amp; 
 surroundings become greatly distorted. Again, one can't help but make the comparison to Most Wanted 
 where the Blurr featured a blaring sense of speed, caused slight shaking of the screen, and nailed 
 the tunnel-vision without sacrificing model quality.
  
  Road reflection is another aspect that worked well in Most Wanted, but was greatly toned down in 
 this rendition. You'd figure that a game at night would have MORE reflection, but that's not the 
 case. It's only noticeable when the setting is turned all they way, but it then becomes a performance 
 issue and is simply not worth it. The particle effects seem to remain unchanged, and that leads 
 to the rain looking bland, thin, and most of the time unnoticeable since this time the driving 
 occurs at night.
  
  One can't help but notice that some of the visual elements that worked so well in Most Wanted and 
 made it a visual feast were simply neglected this time around and poorly implemented. While the 
 screenshots may look impressive, seeing the game run is an entirely different story. Something 
 clearly gets lost in the translation as the ultra high-res and beautifully crafted cars leave your 
 garage and head to the streets, where they become ultra-shiny mirrors that wash out a great deal 
 of detail.
  
  8.0
  
  Sound
  EA has always been a master of the sound scheme with their high production values, and Carbon shows 
 no difference. The voice acting is spot-on, even if the same cannot be said for the choice of story 
 and dialog. The real star is of course the car sounds. The beefiness of muscle cars is particular 
 impressive and realistic, setting it apart from other racing games. Everything from engine over-revs, 
 screeching brakes, and car collisions are done quite nicely and gamers can't imagine it getting 
 any better.
  
  Chatter between drivers is something new, and also very well done. Not only does your current crew-member 
 racing along side you provide you with helpful tips and comments like a teammate should, but their 
 vocal reactions to situations always seem appropriate. When it comes to hearing the voice of a 
 Boss during a canyon duel, not only will they chuckle and taunt you, but become aggravated and 
 pissed off accordingly if you are racing extremely well.
  
  One swing and miss this time is the EA Trax. You can select and turn on/off which songs you choose, 
 and the inclusion of more rock and techno-like tracks are refreshing from the general hip-hop feel 
 of most street-racing titles. However - and that seems to always be the term associated with EA 
 Games - it is completely forgetful. Where as previous soundtracks have stood out and made themselves 
 known, music this in this game seems to be more than a background effect. Between the driver chatter, 
 sound effects, and menu sounds, it's easy to forget the soundtrack where hardly any songs stand 
 out and none that you would miss hearing.
  
  8.5
  
  Gameplay
  Career mode is where most of your time will be spent, and unfortunately it's short. The ability 
 to jump to a safe house, car lot, or any event using the World Map greatly cuts down on gameplay 
 time, as you will hardly experience any random encounters or engage in any police pursuits unless 
 forced. Having to drive to every event would have been a much better gameplay implementation.
 
  
  The Career mode is divided into Territories controlled by other crews, mainly 4 rivals, although 
 there are other minor crews you will come accross throughout the course of a game. Winning 2 out 
 of 3 events in a territory nets you control over it and an unlocked item. Get all of them and you'll 
 be challenged by the crew Boss. Occasionally your own territory will be challenged by a rival crew 
 and if you don't accept and win the race, you will lose the territory (a-la Saints Row) .
  
  Races are your run of the mill regulars with the exception of Speed Traps and Drifts. Gone are 
 the career Knockout and Drag races, which will anger some fans. Making their return are Drift racing 
 events, where you try to accumulate as many points possible. The faster you go and the more your 
 back-end swings out, they more points you'll earn, along with comboing your drifts from corner 
 to corner. Hit the wall and your drift and combo multiplier ends. It sounds good in theory, but 
 also can seemed half-ass at times because of the main following reasons: a) Drifting controls are 
 almost the same for every vehicle; b) you are not penalized for hitting walls; and c) the scores 
 accumulated at low speeds are very generous. Most players will find Drifting events way too easy 
 to win in Career mode as going slow and steady without hitting anything will net you a win without 
 having to pull off any impressive drifts the entire time.
  
  Canyon Duels are the most impressive race types. They re generally Boss battles that occur throughout 
 the game. They are 2-leg races without Nitrous in which drivers take turns chasing each other down 
 a dangerous and curvy downhill canyon highway, earning points for pulling ahead, or chipping away 
 points for staying close. These encounters are made even more dangerous by having multiple corners 
 where your ride can easily go flying off of the edge if you're not careful, ending the race. One 
 mistake will can cost you the race, but manage to pull ahead for 10 seconds, pass your opponent 
 and remain in front for 10 seconds, or send him/her flying off the edge, can instantly score your 
 a win in either leg of the race.
  
  Winning any event in career mode unlocks at least something, and each event states what it unlocks 
 at the World Map. Winning each piece of territory unlocks a vehicle, and once again taking down 
 a Boss gives you the opportunity to win performance/visual upgrades, extra cash, and possibly the 
 pink slip to their ride with Bonus Markers at the end.
  
  Fans of Most Wanted will find one aspect to be SEVERELY disappointing - Cops. Not only were police 
 pursuits in last year's title both engaging and a thrill, but they also mixed in lovely with the 
 narrative. In Carbon they are well more than an afterthought. It's hard to understand how EA could 
 turn their backs so blindly on the success of Most Wanted's most cherished aspect. Police this 
 time around are methodical, relentless, and just downright hard. Conditions (severity of the pursuit) 
 will increase more rapidly, and roadblocks more frequent. They will block of the ENTIRE road, forcing 
 you to slam through them or take off-road shortcuts, deploy tons of spike strips, and will actually 
 sometimes avoid pursuit breakers. Sounds like more of a challenge which is welcome, except for 
 the fact that you will hardly ever engage in any of them as there is no Bounty you need to increase 
 and you can use the World Map to avoid driving around aimlessly. The thrill of illegal street racing 
 has essentially been removed from Carbon by this aspect.
  
  There's plenty of unlockable content and Challenges to be had. It's a little disappointing that 
 some of the unlocked vehicles cannot be used in career mode, but what's done is done. The inclusion 
 of the Muscle Car class this year is sure to make tons of fans happy, and vehicles like the '07 
 Dodge Challenger Concept, Chevy Camaro Concept, and '67 Shelby GT500 will quickly become favorites. 
 Overall, it's still more of the same as the usual Lambos, Proches, and Mazdas make their return. 
 It would've been nice to see more variety and an expanded car library, especially with the customization 
 options, but it's enough to make it interesting. It is ironic how a street racing game is missing 
 so many of the more casually realistic street racings cars - Civics, Accords, Acuras, older Mustangs 
 and Camaros, Scions, BMWs, etc.
  
  7.5
  
  Control
  Handling is straight forward and the cars behave how they should. Muscle cars are insanely powerful 
 and have lightning fast acceleration that can almost be seen as unfair, but they handle worse than 
 Rosie O'Donnell in a 3-legged sack race, which counters that. Tuners handling like a dream and 
 are small and light, and a well balanced car. Exotics have blaring high speeds and are just beautiful. 
 EA did a nice job at handling car physics although it seems little odd that running into boxes 
 and parking meters can slow your car down by as much as 30-40 mph.
  
  Complaints are generally about the set-up, particularly because the keyboard and button mapping 
 options are weak and hardly their. Not being ablet to remap look behind and car reset keys to controller 
 pads and steering wheels hurts and is, quite frankly, a severe annoyance.
  
  Force feedback is fantastic and full support for the clutch is an added bonus, especially if you 
 were lucky enough to get your hands on the new Logitech G25 Racing Wheel with its H-pattern shifter 
 and clutch pedal. I have personally been able to sample this, and it works perfectly with Need 
 For Speed: Carbon. There are a few compatibility issues with drivers, so some Logitech wheel users 
 might find it necessary to be forced to use the Logitech System Profiler to receive full functionality.
 
  
  8.5
  
  Performance
  In simplest terms - poor.
  
  The optimization is horrible. This might not be apparent for those with cards that only support 
 Shader Modeler 2.0 as motion blurr will be unavailable and shader detailed lowered. However those 
 with 3.0 cards will feel the wrath as this game seems to have some horrible running moments. It's 
 almost necessary to lower the Shader detail to medium as the loss in quality is minuscule (you 
 lose the ability to see each and every metallic particle in a paint job... boo hoo) , but it's amazing 
 that EA could not optimize the performance of the motion Blurr. Even those with high-end card (nVidia 
 7800+ and ATI X1800+) will find it strange as their framerates will drop into the 30's frequently 
 at high settings, while they can handle games like Oblvion, Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter, and 
 even Most Wanted without a problem. The motion Blurr seems to abuse SM 3.0 features, and gamers 
 will often be forced to chose between quality and performance. nVidia owners also seem to take 
 the blunt of this blow.
  
  Another huge disappointment, and yet another synonymous EA blunder, is the lack of out of the box 
 Widescreen support. Here we are in 2006 and 95% of games are developed with support for widescreen 
 (at least after patches) , and yet EA chose to avoid it again. Thankfully a method for changing 
 the resolution can be found from searching the web, but it's just another classic example of EA 
 ignoring fans and gamers alike and doing what they please.
  
  The only positive thing that can be said about Carbon's performance is that load times are kept 
 to a minmum. Bottle line is, that EA botched the testing by either not using a wide range of cards/systems, 
 or simply not caring. Excuses are wearing thin.
  
  5.5
  
  Replay Value
  Multiplayer is the same as it always is, and because a majority PC users will acquire this game 
 through other means, online matches are thin. The Career is surprisingly short, but short enough 
 that it's worth another run through, perhaps using a different car class, but this is not a game 
 that will you be playing for months to come. Once beaten, most players will probably mess around 
 with the new car models, create some designs, and then hang this one up for good. Xbox 360 will 
 fair better since there will simply be more players online for matches, and you can show off your 
 customized cars on Xbox Live.
  
  While the potention for replay value is there, this game's just not going to occupy your time for 
 long.
  
  6.0
  
  OVERALL SCORE (not an average) - 7.0
  The game is way too short, the car library isn't as deep as it would seem, the story is almost 
 non-existent and lame, there are far too many performance issues without any excuses, and what 
 has been done to Police Pursuits is almost criminal (pun intended) . It's hard to comprehend why 
 EA would turn a blind eye to many of the huge aspects that made Most Wanted such a success last 
 year.
  
  The game seems like a Rough Draft that needs to be re-written before being turned in for a grade. 
 Overall it feels incomplete and has too much missing, but high production and flashy visuals help 
 sugar-coat this title for easier swallowing. I hate to sound like an EA-basher, but another classic 
 example of Production Values through the roof.... Gameplay through the floor. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gauravfox
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 12, 2007 11:08 am PT
Review:  Need For Speed : Carbon, The game sounds good by the name... but it is not as 'Happening' as the 
 other series. i mean it is kind of disappointing to know that the game is finished by Dinner time... it 
 is small man... the gameplay is small... i felt it was half as much as Most Wanted. The story is pretty... normal... i 
 mean.... after sequels like Underground and Most wanted, is this what the guys at EA have come up 
 with ?...... i mean give me a break... buddy.... this is not the way it was supposed to be...!! The 
 graphics are something to talk about... the graphics are good. and u need a lot of computer resources 
 to get the best output. The sound and music are awesome... i mean the developers have kept up with 
 the music. The learning curves are easy, just a few minutes n u will be getting a hang of it. but 
 the drifting needs some practice.... dude... its awesome... The cars are good... u have a lot of new 
 cars in this game. but the worst part is that U HAVE NO DRAG.... Over all... its a good collection 
 for racing fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingdamy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 11, 2007 3:22 am PT
Review:  what a game???!!! it is very cool. i love this sort of games. i love stability in driving and to 
 be in a story mode like most wanted have did. and having friends in this amazing game is great 
 thing and take a look out on its animations it is very great indeed...... it puts you on the pressure............ 
 i think till now it is in the top of racing games....... till we see the latest edition of the 
 great EA games productions..... NEED 4 SPEED PROSTREET i think EA had tried hardly to make PROSTREET 
 a wonderfull game like CARBON to take the attention because it is hardly to make a game like CARBON 
 ......... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: noneofthese2006
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 8, 2007 2:23 pm PT
Review:  The first thing that struck me when I fired up Carbon was that EA definitely believes in the old 
 adage if it aint broke, dont fix it. Its safe to say that Carbon plays very much like its predecessor, 
 but thats not necessarily a bad thing. Many developers will change a winning formula just because 
 they feel that they should. But for me, the idea of extending my Most Wanted experience into Carbon 
 was exactly what I wanted. Dont get me wrong though, Carbon isnt just a rebadged version of Most 
 Wanted, there are improvements and additions, but they are quite subtle.
  
  Although the game engine is clearly the same beast we saw in Most Wanted, Carbon harks back to 
 the Need for Speed: Underground era, where all the action happens at night. In some respect this 
 is slightly disappointing since you miss out on all the beautiful lighting effects as you drive 
 toward the sunset, or emerge from a tunnel and find yourself momentarily blinded. That said, things 
 have moved on considerably since the Underground series, and the streets dont look like they're 
 constructed from polished glass, while the rain looks and feels like an environmental effect rather 
 than pure eye candy. And although the autumnal, sun dappled lighting from Most Wanted is missing, 
 the effects created by street lights, headlamps and shop fronts is no less impressive
  
  Need for Speed: Carbon is more of a continuation of Most Wanted than a new game, but Im not too 
 bothered by that. There was so much that I loved in Most Wanted, that Im happy to have another 
 playground to race around. Carbon isnt without its problems though and EA needs to come up with 
 improved AI for the next game to make it a bit more challenging 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ellioticeshock
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 30, 2007 2:24 pm PT
Review:  I baught it on releise day last year, i played it for 2 hours and iv not looked at it again untill 
 this day (30 aug 07) .
  
  I have the collectors edition too, which cost a few bob. i wouldnt pay top notch money for it, 
 but if you find it cheap, or you have no games or your a Chav / Townie who are into this stuff, 
 then its good.
  
  I dont dislike this game, but i dont love it. its good, iv played it today with my logitech wheel.
 
  
  If you race simulator games, you wont like this, but if you like arcades games with friends then 
 you will like this.
  
  If your a powerfull computer owner like me and use a super high resolution, then this game does 
 not have widescreen resolutions, but you can download a fix off the internet that some one made.
 
  
  This game can bring fun, the One thing i like is the sence of speed, how when your going along 
 the highway at 150mph its actually alot harder to turn and you dont have imence grip, like the 
 need for speed underground games where you was going 250 mph and felt to be going 20 mph.
  
  It does feel like theyv tryed to make somthing from what people have allready seen, for example 
 need for speed underground was based on drag racing like fast and furious 1, where as this game 
 is based on tokyo drift, alltho the need for speeds own world of drifting is absolutely crap
  
  The story line is Crap, the Drifting is CRAP and the crew thingy is crap the autoscuplt is 
 Crap. But driving a car for the feeling of the car on a wheel and racing for better performance.. 
 (thumbs up) , its good :)
  
  6/10 for me 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AKA-game
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 29, 2007 1:41 pm PT
Review:  amazing!!! the best game ever released. great game play! new cars, new races.
  A MUST BUY ! MUCH BETTER THAN ON THE PCs.
  MUCH BETTER THAN ALL THE OTHER GAMES BY FAR!!!!! its 
 a easy game but very fun its a completly new idea compared to the older versions.
  More-solid FMV sequences Loads of customization options Solid core gameplay.
  Carbon continues 
 the story where Most Wanted left off. For those just tuning in, Most Wanted ended with you recovering 
 your stolen car and bailing out of the city of Rockport while the overzealous, anti-street-racing 
 Sgt. Cross continued his pursuit. At the start of Carbon, you're making your way to Palmont City 
 when Cross, now a bounty hunter, catches up with you and totals your car during the chase. Before 
 he can collect his bounty on you, though, your old friend Darius steps in and pays off Cross. You 
 are then put to work, taking over the turf of the other rival street-racing crews in Palmont City. 
 It seems that you've got a history in this town that predates the events in Most Wanted. And during 
 the course of the game, you'll learn more about that fateful night you skipped town. Different 
 characters will give their takes on the night you supposedly ran off with a big red duffle bag 
 full of cash. And by the end of the game, you'll not only find out what really happened, but you'll 
 have taken over all of the street-racing territory in Palmont City. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Drentzter
Rating: 3
Date: Aug 22, 2007 4:07 am PT
Review:  I'm going to keep this short and sweet because this game doesn't deserve much more than that. Let's 
 start with the graphics. I just don't understand why after NFS: Most Wanted and also Underground 
 2 the graphics quality could have deteriorated as much as it has. The graphics should be better 
 not worse. It's quite obvious they didn't spend as much time on rendering scenery as on previous 
 games. As for gameplay, that has deteriorated too. Gameplay is just downright boring now. It just 
 doesn't have the same kind of charge or energy as its predessecors. NFS was never quite that realistic 
 but now you dont get any sense of realism whatsoever. As I said it's just downright boring. And 
 I dont get how some people have given it a 10 out of 10. Are you people blind??? It's nothing more 
 than a cheapie designed to make EA games a quick buck 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agordplayer
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 20, 2007 8:21 am PT
Review:  This is one of the best that ea has released. This is one of my favorite games that I have. It 
 has very good graphics, a good selection of cars to mod and race, and also has good environment. 
 This game is good for any gamer. It is also to easy to get away from the cops. Also it is highy 
 addictive. I spend alot of time playing this game online and just for fun. I hope that the next 
 need for speed is even better. This my third review I have written. I hoped that you liked it. 
 need for speed is the best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Svajokle
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 16, 2007 9:02 am PT
Review:  This is my favourite racing game . :) I like just a few tipes of games: rpg, mmorpg, sometimes 
 simulation.
  10 resons why i like it:
  1) I like speed
  2) like tunning cars
  3) many different tracks
  4) good graphic
  5) easy control
  6) big cars assotment
  7) events 
 be at night
  8) have a story (Carbon continues the story where Most Wanted left off.)
  9) many different types of rases
  10) three different behavior types -- blockers, drafters, and 
 scouts
  I wasn't play all Need for Speed part, but in my opinion all parts are very cool. I 'm waiting 
 new EA games job about speed. Ok, that i can say : just play the gameand have fun !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: umer_fawi
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 8, 2007 10:17 pm PT
Review:  In this installment of NFS ea has made many new things in it like canyon races new type of challenges, 
 very very highly details graphics.. and when talk about its music.. so guys the is very rock than 
 previous versions.. The cars shadows, reflection and car reflection details, road reflection, world 
 details is also very very highly updated ...
  
  GRAPHICS: i give it 10 out of for its graphics.
  .
  SOUND: The sound is also good. so i also 
 give it 10 out of 10 for its amazing music.
  .
  GAMEPLAY: the gameplay is also very superb i also give it 10 out of 10 for its gameplay.
  .
 
  STORY: I think this actually based on its amazing story .. thats why i also give it 10 out of 
 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sandyqbg
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 2, 2007 3:15 am PT
Review:  It's all about racing and eluding the cops. The career mode is a good break from the linear single 
 races mode of play that most racing games have to offer.
  
  STORYLINE:
  
  The game actually has a storyline. Here you begin where you left off at the end of NFS: Most Wanted. 
 You return to Palmont City, only to find that the city is divided among four rival racing gangs. 
 Now, you gotta win events to wrest control of territory from them. You also come to know what actually 
 happened at the end of NFS: Most Wanted, the night you fled from Palmont City.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  
  The graphics engine is one powerhouse. The blur effects are done well. You can 
 also see the damage your car has taken by the end of a race. The in-game videos are done well, 
 and the faces have been rendered well too. It is usually the faces where you get to see the weakness 
 of the graphic engine.
  
  SOUND:
  
  The background music is prominent enough and is scores well. The in-game sounds like the roar of 
 the engine, the screech of the skidding tires, etc are tweaked to almost perfection.
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  
  Unlike a lot of other racing games, this one has the career mode, where you can 
 roam the city, trying your car out or even courting a pursuit from the cops. This one is similair 
 to NFS: Most Wanted. But the new part here is the crew concept. You can hire people into your crew 
 and use them in your races. There are three types of your crew members - Blockers, Scouts and Drafters. 
 You earn money by winning races and use the money on upgrading your car or buying new ones. As 
 you win races you also get to unlock new cars and new car upgrades. The career starts out easy 
 at first and steadily grows tougher.
  You also have the normal race modes in addition to the career mode. There is Challenge series. 
 Here you have different modes of races like circuits, sprints, pursuits, etc. Finish a race in a 
 certain mode and that unlocks the next race in that mode.
  
  FINAL VERDICT:
  
  The cars look awesome and so does the racing. The NFS series has struck gold again with these innovations. 
 It may lack the charisma of its predecessor but still scores good in this genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MAD_PLayEr1
Rating: 6.4
Date: Jul 27, 2007 4:58 pm PT
Review:  This game was my first game on the x360. Its quite a good game at the start but it slowly starts 
 to get boring as its basically doing the same thing over and over again and there isn't much difficulty 
 in it. The graphics and sounds of the game are fantastic, I'll give you that but the racing itself 
 is nothing new and if you are not a very big fan of nfs and racing, you will get bored.
  
  The good thing about this game is it isn't over cooked nor raw. Its not too long and not too short 
 were you still are on your edge wanting to race with your lambo.
  
  Beating this game is quite challenging and for one reason only - the last boss race. It is quite 
 tricky, even with the lambo mercilago and one that you might just rip your shirt and break the 
 TV over but it does give you the feel that you have accomplished a reasonable game at the end.
 
  
  If you have loads of racing games, I do not recommend buying this one unless you are a fan where 
 it's just must buy all racing games .
  
  One thing I do miss is customising my car at a large scale like with need for speed underground 
 2. Its ashame you cannot customise to that degree but it was quite pointless other than for showing 
 your friends of what cars you have and what they contain inside them ;) .
  
  Enjoy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark_Blade_17
Rating: 6.4
Date: Jul 26, 2007 12:46 am PT
Review:  Ok where do i start. First started playin i was like wow what a really great game. After hours 
 and hours of gaming you begin to notice its downs. 1. OMG The boss canyon duels?!? gamespot wasnt 
 jokin about them. They are REALLY HARD. Especially the LAST BOSS RACE
  
  2. Camera angles are a really nice add. THEN AGAIN they were all over the place. SOmetimes on canyon 
 duels they would pull over too the side to show u how close your driving which would basicly prevent 
 you from seeing whats ahead.
  
  3. OMG and the LAST BOSS RACE. I began to hate how it was like if u beat all 5 races you win. What 
 happened to Best out of 5?!?! Does that not exist anymore? You have to WIn ALL 5 or however many 
 races in 1ST PLACE to win. That completely killed the game for me. I spend 5hrs on the last day 
 of playin Carbon b4 i stopped and STILL didnt beat that LAST CANYON DUEL
  
  So I guess the game is worth checkin out. BUT beware the last boss battle. I was on the brink of 
 destroying my computer. PISSES ME OFF 
::::::

::::::
UserName: edvyz
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 18, 2007 8:33 am PT
Review:  its... great game!!! i like it most of all !!! it's da best and . !!! i dont have about 90 more 
 words for review, so... it's da best game!!! it's da best game!!! it's da best game!!! it's da best 
 game!!! it's da best game!!! it's da best game!!! it's da best game!!! it's da best game!!! it's 
 da best game!!! it's da best game!!! it's da best game!!! it's da best game!!! it's da best game!!! 
 it's da best game!!! it's da best game!!! it's da best game!!! it's da best game!!! it's da best 
 game!!! it's da best game!!! it's da best game!!! it's da best game!!! it's da best game!!! it's 
 da best game!!! it's da best game!!! it's da best game!!! it's da best game!!! it's da best game!!! 
 it's da best game!!! it's da best game!!! it's da best game!!! it's da best game!!! it's da best 
 game!!! it's da best game!!! it's da best game!!! it's da best game!!! it's da best game!!! it's 
 da best game!!! it's da best game!!! it's da best game!!! it's da best game!!! it's da best game!!! 
 it's da best game!!! it's da best game!!! it's da best game!!! it's da best game!!! it's da best 
 game!!! it's da best game!!! it's da best game!!! it's da best game!!! it's da best game!!! it's 
 da best game!!! it's da best game!!! it's da best game!!! it's da best game!!! it's da best game!!! 
 it's da best game!!! it's da best game!!! it's da best game!!! it's da best game!!! it's da best 
 game!!! it's da best game!!! it's da best game!!! it's da best game!!! it's da best game!!! it's 
 da best game!!! it's da best game!!! it's da best game!!! it's da best game!!! it's da best game!!! 
 it's da best game!!! it's da best game!!! it's da best game!!! it's da best game!!! it's da best 
 game!!! it's da best game!!! it's da best game!!! it's da best game!!! it's da best game!!! it's 
 da best game!!! it's da best game!!! it's da best game!!! it's da best game!!! it's da best game!!! 
 it's da best game!!! it's da best game!!! it's da best game!!! it's da best game!!! it's da best 
 game!!! it's da best game!!! it's da best game!!! it's da best game!!! it's da best game!!! it's 
 da best game!!! it's da best game!!! it's da best game!!! it's da best game!!! it's da best game!!! 
 it's da best game!!! it's da best game!!! it's da best game!!! it's da best game!!! it's da best 
 game!!! it's da best game!!! it's da best game!!! it's da best game!!! it's da best game!!! it's 
 da best game!!! it's da best game!!! it's da best game!!! it's da best game!!! it's da best game!!! 
 it's da best game!!! it's da best game!!! it's da best game!!! it's da best game!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JKL06
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 9, 2007 11:29 am PT
Review:  As far as the need for speed series goes i think this is probably the second best. It's a good 
 game overall, but there some things that bother me. Well here it is plain and simple..
  Pros: 1. Excellent graphics
  2. Variety of interesting cars
  3. Very re-playable
  4. A great 
 experience that you should have even if you haven't played the other games in the series
  
  and..
  Cons:
  1. Movie parts are a little dull, lack of substance with the story
  2. More 
 cars are needed
  3. There's not enough money in career mode
  4. Boss races will have you throwing your keyboard into a wall
  5. The game could be longer [although 
 it will still take you a while to beat it]
  
  Overall: It is worth your time and money, and you'll have fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameCaller
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 3, 2007 6:37 pm PT
Review:  This Game Is Great, Actually This year's version, Need for Speed Carbon, which refers to Carbon 
 Canyon where racers duel for territory in the city below, is a minor shake-up for the series, shifting 
 in new features, shifting out others, while continuing the FMV-heavy story-telling from Most Wanted. 
 Carbon, in other words, is a decent update to last year's game with improved graphics, excellent 
 Autosculpt customization, a different progression system, and an all-around solid take on the game. 
 It's not revolutionary, it's not brilliant, but it's good, deep racing. The majority of your time 
 you will spend in the game's career mode. You'll begin by choosing a starter car, from one of three 
 classes. Each car class has its own properties - Tuner Cars (their strongest point is handling 
 - most cars are from Japanese companies) , Muscle Cars (their strongest point is acceleration - 
 most cars are from American companies) and Exotic Cars (balanced in handling, acceleration and 
 top speed. - most cars are from European companies) . The class you select determines what goodies 
 you earn for winning races in career mode. This provides some incentive to play through career 
 mode multiple times 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 43n1m4
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jun 17, 2007 1:19 pm PT
Review:  So, have you ever wished for a race in the glossy, blurry underground? Now is your chance. The 
 Need for Speed series peaked at the Porsche Unlimited (also known as Need for Speed Porsche 2000) 
 and has had some serious ups and downs since then.
  From arcade racer to simulation through a series of 'The Fast and the Furious' racers - NFS has 
 been trying to redefine itself every five years or so. Or has had a hard time getting a grip. Depends 
 on how you look at it.
  
  NFS Carbon is the 4th in the 'underground series' - starting with NFS Underground from 2003, NFS 
 Underground 2 (2004) , NFS Most Wanted (2005) and NFS Carbon (2006) - so basically the EA franchise 
 has released a new 'underground' racer each year since their beginning - and it shows.
  
  Because the layers of shine added to this racer cannot hide that the underlying driving engine 
 need a serious overhaul - the cars feel like they are driving on mirrorlike surfaces and their 
 turning abilities are reduced to waggling through each corner. Don't get me wrong - I know this 
 is an arcade racer, but the cars feels like toycars without any 'texture' or weight, and in racer 
 that tries (so hard) to get underground street racing cred, it feels shallow in a very annoying 
 way.
  
  Add to this some technical issues, lackluster performance, broken 'wingman' tactics and a random 
 difficulty on many tracks, and you have a racer, that should've have been under development at 
 least 1 more year. EA really has to spend more time on their games, as I'd rather see NFS racer 
 every 2nd year, than a subpar racer each year - because IMO, the NFS series is in decline. It's 
 not as if they are the only ones releasing PC racers, so if you are looking for a good racer, I'd 
 recommend you look somewhere else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Legendary_Guard
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 14, 2007 11:17 am PT
Review:  Well, I just completed my share of the latest addition to the Need for Speed Series, Carbon. The 
 game itself is inherently enjoyable, partly because its a RACING game. Its not everyday where 
 somebody receives an opportunity to fly down the road clocking over 200MPH. The physics reality 
 of this game is slightly better than its predecessor Most Wanted through one fact that the cars 
 aren't so 'light' anymore, making it a little harder to knock you opponents, and the fuzz, off 
 the road. I found career mode enjoyable with its humorous video clips, creative gameplay, and unique 
 races. However I did not enjoy the fact that I could beat the game at a low heat and bounty level. 
 With escaping the police less of a goal, Carbon lost major points, making free roam and cop hunting 
 obsolete. I liked the variety of cars that were presented in Carbon, but they were too shiny in 
 my opinion. Graphics improved from Most Wanted, but the new engine EA used this time around made 
 the cars seem 'big' and a little cartoonish. The music choice this time around, I did not feel 
 for. I can anticipate that EA will learn from some of their errors in the past and make Pro-Street 
 revolutionary.... I hope.
  
  One last thing, I HATE drift races :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: juliozaroot
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 12, 2007 11:13 pm PT
Review:  The game is very cool because you can't drive in the reality like this, it brings a powerful tool 
 to make all that you can't do in the real life and more.
  The NFS Carbon its diferent because have a new tool for modify your car: Autosulpt. With this you 
 can do more designs to your car. This is the more relevant thing that made good this game, but 
 it would be better if it have more parts, because it haves the same parts and cars of most wanted, 
 except for little details. The history is cool and the territories that are in the game. I really 
 like this game but i think that needs more work, i hope that the Need For Speed Pro Street haves 
 all the things that need the Carbon.
  This is one of my favorite games, and i recommend, because i think that is the best cars game, 
 and so is Midnight Club 3 DUB Edition. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Whermacht02
Rating: 5.9
Date: Jun 12, 2007 4:14 pm PT
Review:  I was eagerly looking forward to this game, but after beating it I felt somewhat dissapointed. 
 The only new thing that I liked about the game was that the cars were split in 3 different classes. 
 But other than that, this game cant stand out on its own. The wingmans can help you win a race, 
 but sometimes youll be better on your own since those guys tend to get in your way very often. 
 Besides, their bonuses can be abbused and there is no penalty for hiring and firing a new wingman. 
 You can just tell them to pack their bags as easily as you can have them join your team. The cop 
 chases have lost their spirit in Carbon. However my biggest gripe about this game is that it doesnt 
 look as good as Most Wanted, even though they used the same engine and Carbon needs a more powerful 
 setup. If you are a NFS junkie, then by all means go and get this game. However, be prepared to 
 be utterly dissapointed by this new game wannabe 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tony01987
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 11, 2007 5:15 pm PT
Review:  I waa real excited when i heard about this installment and i had alot of high hopes for this game, 
 it's not a disappointment but it could have been a bit longer and more challenging, for pete's 
 sake i beat the game in two days!!!
  But i enjoyed the game anyway, the gameplay graphics, sound effect was real nice.... even though 
 the controls on some of the muscle cars pissed me off and those freaky characters that show thier 
 ugly mugs during a boss race, but apart fomr that i'll give one and a half thumbs up. I can't wait 
 for need for speed oxygen to come out, but seruously i'm looking forward for the newest installment. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kakomanda
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jun 6, 2007 10:43 pm PT
Review:  The game is seriously SHORT...
  in 3 or 4 hours you can beat the last boss...
  more one or two hour to complete all the races.
  
  The game have some strange things with the 
 wingmans...
  Even having you a better car... they keep top speeds a lot far from yours.
  
  The game is seriously SHORT...
  in 3 or 4 hours you can beat the last boss...
  more one 
 or two hour to complete all the races.
  
  The game is seriously SHORT...
  in 3 or 4 hours you can beat the last boss...
  more one or two hour to complete all the races. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: c42us
Rating: 2.6
Date: May 31, 2007 4:06 pm PT
Review:  Saying that Carbon is the worst isn't just an exaggeration - it's how I really feel. It's the worst. 
 Every single aspect of Carbon is just awful.
  
  The graphics: even if you max it out at 1024x768, the graphics just look plain nasty as hell. Everything 
 looks saturated in a drab, washed-out blue. Everything is too shiny in this game: the roads, the 
 cars, the tires. Everything.
  
  The performance: It runs like frozen molasses. Maximizing the graphics is a bad idea for this game, 
 not because the graphics suck anyway, but because it runs horribly even on high-performance machines 
 that more than meets the recommended requirements. It prompts the question: how can a game that 
 looks so horrendous run so awful?
  
  The bugs: This game crashes a lot. If you're getting NFS Carbon, do not get it for the PC. It's 
 always crashing when I'm scrolling through a selection of cars. Sometimes it crashes AFTER I win 
 a race. Jeez!
  
  The car selection: admittedly, it has all of my favorite cars in there. When I heard that it has 
 the '07 GT500, the Eclipse GSX, the M3 GTR, I was totally excited at the thought of using them 
 in career mode. But EA screwed up. Some of the most desirable cars in the game can't be used in 
 career. Some can't even be unlocked, like the '07 GT500, the 997 Turbo, or the G35! What idiots 
 at EA!
  
  The sounds: the music makes me want to puke, except for Joker and the Thief. I don't know, you 
 might like it. I guess it depends on the person. The car sounds... well some sound accurate like 
 the WRX STI, and some sound horrible, like the Mustang. The way the engine speeds up and slows 
 down sounds painfully fake. Download the demo and rev the engine. It'll make you shake your head.
 
  
  The city: What is up with the city? It looks like a bowl of spaghetti. It's like the city planner 
 just picked up a marker and doodled some squiggly lines on a board and said, There's your city. 
 Freeroaming in the city was irritating as hell with the traffic and the cops. Hey, I can avoid 
 traffic and evade cops NO PROBLEM. The thing is that I DON'T want them to bother me when I'm trying 
 to roam around.
  
  Drifting: dumbed down. First of all, your car automatically countersteers! WTF! Secondly, you get 
 to keep your points even if you crash into a wall! How is this a game, EA?
  
  Team racing: the team member just annoys me in the race. Like when I'm trying to turn, the idiot 
 runs into me. Or when the blocker knocks a car into my path. And the rubberbanding can't get any 
 worse. It doesn't matter if you have a 15-second lead. The stupid AI cars just rocket up out of 
 nowhere. On the flipside, if you're behind, the AI cars drive slowly so you can catch up. This 
 ain't racing.
  
  Need for Speed has hit an all-time low with this reincarnation. Just bad. JUST BAD. I really don't 
 know if EA can make an NFS worst than Carbon. ROFL, whom am I kidding? This is EA we're talking 
 about. Churning out turds is what they do best. Keep your fingers crossed for Pro Street! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xgouse
Rating: 6.2
Date: May 29, 2007 1:00 am PT
Review:  I've played every NFS game that has ever come out and I'm not really impressed by this game. The 
 territory thing is ok but lame. The graphics are good but to choppy.... The lack of cars suck.. 
 unless you want to buy them on-line on the 360... pc your just stuck with the ones you got from 
 what i know for now... Let's just say if you're playing a racing game you shouldn't need a top 
 of the line system to play it on because they throw avertisments and other crap that doesn't need 
 to be there. Anyway I hate this installment and I'm looking to say that NFS series is dying out.. 
 LAterz.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trebor22031982
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 14, 2007 3:38 am PT
Review:  Carbon bursts onto the scene bringing with it new innovations for the Need for Speed universe.
 
  First and foremost, conquering the city takes on new meaning. In order to conquer the city, you 
 need to win in and hold onto sectors of the city, and keep them out of the hands of opposing crews.
 
  Secondly, there's a team system where you can take a team member out on some races to give you 
 backup.
  The cut scenes are FMV style, so the storyline is easy to understand.
  Performance and Visual parts are now un-lockable from certain races, so getting the parts you need 
 to upgrade your car is now easier.
  The difficulty of the game is high, so going into races without the games inbuilt cheats is near 
 enough suicide.
  Conquer the streets, Defeat the crews, Rule the City. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HAMODA
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 9, 2007 2:21 am PT
Review:  EA has come back with its latest Need For Speed - Carbon. I have to say EA has done a pretty good 
 job with Carbon. They have put together the best of Underground 2 and Most Wanted. I was only disappointed 
 by the drift races. People who think they are the best at drifts in Underground 2 should think 
 again. The car response has changed completely making drifting harder. My favourite races are the 
 canyon duals. Like EA says you'll never survive it but you can if you know how to. You can find 
 all your favourite race types in this game. Drift, Circuit, Sprint, Canyon duals, Lap knockouts, 
 Checkpoints and 2 other online types. The only thing its missing is drag races. Thats a bummer! 
 Now you will have to race for territory and then become the best. I would give NFS Carbon 9/10. One 
 of the best made by EA. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: umerfawi
Rating: 10
Date: May 5, 2007 10:17 am PT
Review:  Last year's Need for Speed Most Wanted, which featured hilariously over-the-top live-action cutscenes 
 and seriously tense police pursuits, proved to be a high watermark for the franchise. Now it's 
 being followed up by Need for Speed Carbon, which downplays the role of the police chases, introduces 
 some simple team-racing mechanics, and occasionally takes the action off the city streets and into 
 the outlying canyons. The new gameplay doesn't always improve the experience, but the racing can 
 still be quite intense and still has a pronounced sense of style.
  Carbon continues the story where Most Wanted left off. For those just tuning in, Most Wanted ended 
 with you recovering your stolen car and bailing out of the city of Rockport while the overzealous, 
 anti-street-racing Sgt. Cross continued his pursuit. At the start of Carbon, you're making your 
 way to Palmont City when Cross, now a bounty hunter, catches up with you and totals your car during 
 the chase. Before he can collect his bounty on you, though, your old friend Darius steps in and 
 pays off Cross. You are then put to work, taking over the turf of the other rival street-racing 
 crews in Palmont City. It seems that you've got a history in this town that predates the events 
 in Most Wanted. And during the course of the game, you'll learn more about that fateful night you 
 skipped town. Different characters will give their takes on the night you supposedly ran off with 
 a big red duffle bag full of cash. And by the end of the game, you'll not only find out what really 
 happened, but you'll have taken over all of the street-racing territory in Palmont City.
  Outside of the actual gameplay, one of the more endearing aspects of Most Wanted was the way it 
 used live actors in CG environments for its story sequences. These sequences invariably featured 
 plenty of actor/model types, trying a little too hard to talk tough and failing spectacularly at 
 it. The technique remains the same in Carbon, though there are more story sequences now and a slightly 
 more self-aware tone. The heavy use of flashbacks is an interesting idea, but the story ends up 
 being kind of muddled. And none of the villains come off as particularly menacing. Although it's 
 hard to really qualify any of it as sincerely good, it's just over-the-top enough that folks who 
 enjoy stuff like The Fast and the Furious, ironically or otherwise, should get some enjoyment out 
 of it. Most Wanted had you racing to raise your visibility with the police and take on the most 
 notorious street racers in Rockport. In Carbon, it's all about turf. Palmont City is divided into 
 four major territories, each of which is predominantly controlled by a different street-racing 
 crew. Each territory is then further divided into zones, and within each zone, you'll find starting 
 points for a variety of different race events. Winning at least two events in a zone will put it 
 under your control. And once you've taken over all the zones in a given territory, you can take 
 on the head of that crew. As you continue to extend your reach across Palmont City, rival crews 
 will come back and try to retake territory the same way you took it from them, forcing you to accept 
 their challenge if you want to maintain control. Having to go back and rerace events that you've 
 already won is kind of a pain, but the open-world structure is nice and gives you plenty of options 
 to take on races at any given point. However, you won't be taking on all of these crews by yourself, 
 because Carbon lets you bring along a wingman into many of the races. These computer-controlled 
 companions break down into three different behavior types -- blockers, drafters, and scouts. Blockers 
 will run interference for you, spinning out opponents at your command. Drafters let you slipstream 
 behind them, giving you some extra speed from the reduced drag, and from there you can pull aside 
 and slingshot your way past them. Scouts have a knack for finding the many alternate routes and 
 shortcuts that can be found in most races, and they have short neon tracers that follow them, making 
 it easier for you to take advantage. You'll definitely find yourself in races where your wingman's 
 influence is the difference between winning and losing. But often, your wingman's presence is either 
 unnecessary or an actual hindrance. Blockers are only really effective in taking out competitors 
 that are behind you, and even then, they're not very reliable. Drafters work as advertised, but 
 the lengthy straightaway needed to set up a proper draft is rare in Palmont City, which limits 
 their usefulness. Scouts are the least useful of the three because the neon tracers don't seem 
 to get longer as the cars you drive go faster, so eventually, there's just not enough time for 
 you to anticipate an alternate route. If you didn't call on your wingman, you might expect him 
 or her to just hang back. But we found ourselves getting bumped into and boxed in by our wingman 
 on several occasions. It's not ruinous to the experience, but sometimes it makes you wish they 
 would just go away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazy_teo
Rating: 5
Date: May 1, 2007 1:31 am PT
Review:  October 27, 2006 - After Need for Speed Underground outsold all other games in 2004, the largest 
 independent game publisher in the world adroitly kept the series coming without a hitch. Last year's 
 Most Wanted shipped at Microsoft's Xbox 360 launch and introduced a creative take on story-telling 
 by using filtered customized FMV to give the familiar racer a fresh presentation. The police were 
 back with a ferocious vengeance. And it offered a particularly North-West vibe to it.
  
  This year's version, Need for Speed Carbon, which refers to Carbon Canyon where racers duel for 
 territory in the city below, is a minor shake-up for the series, shifting in new features, shifting 
 out others, while continuing the FMV-heavy story-telling from Most Wanted. Carbon, in other words, 
 is a decent update to last year's game with improved graphics, excellent Autosculpt customization, 
 a different progression system, and an all-around solid take on the game. It's not revolutionary, 
 it's not brilliant, but it's good, deep racing.
  
  Meet your former girl friend. Hah!
  Near Carbon Copy
  Carbon is an arcade-style racer that plays, in general, a lot like other Need 
 for Speed games. It provides four camera perspectives (two in-car, two over-the-shoulder) , a 10-14 
 hour single-player campaign, and a series of mini-challenges based on collecting racing cards. 
 The Career mode is the meat and potatoes of the game, comprising a city split into four territories 
 plus hilly canyon races outside the city. Players can pick from three different car classes, exotics, 
 tuners, and muscles (the muscles being the new addition) , which broadens the game's middle-of-the-road 
 feel in a smart, controlled manner. The four new features offered in Carbon comprise a crew, a 
 unique autosculpt customization, drifting races and additional car classes. One of the bigger additions 
 is the online functionality. It enables from 1-8 players to vie online on Xbox 360, PS3, and PC, 
 whereas the Xbox, PS2 and GameCube versions don't offer online compatibility.
  
  The Career mode follows last year's trippy FMV-based narrative. Because of the addition of crews 
 or because EA wanted to go even heavier into its presentation (which it often does at the expense 
 of improving gameplay) , the game is filled with cutscenes and pasty, well-coiffed well-dressed 
 gearheads. Last year's game was basic. Razor was your enemy, he was a first-class dick, and he 
 rigged your car. You had to seek revenge and it felt good because he was a no-good bully. This 
 year's narrative is watered down, with more forced mystery behind a rather simple premise. The 
 novelty of the specialized FMV cutscenes is still moderately entertaining, but because of EA's 
 excesses it comes across as strained, and there are simply too many dudes with perfect eyebrows 
 and mullets for my tastes. Clearly Emmanuelle Vaugier needs a little more direction and some more 
 meat to reach her potential. Meanwhile Josie Maran had far more fun and showed far more skin in 
 her role in Most Wanted.
  
  The boss races in the canyons are neither great nor horrible, they just are.
  Hot girls aside 
 (and let's just be honest here, they're all great looking women) , the game drives differently than 
 before. Sure, it's still an accessible arcade game in which cars don't take any damage; it's still 
 Need for Speed. But the addition of muscle cars and high-end tuners really alter the normal feel 
 that's common in the NFS series. (See Real Muscle below for more details.) The game starts out 
 at a normal pace and it gradually enables you to more earn enhancements. Cars are split into classes, 
 but also tiers. There are three tiers, staring with tier one. The second tier is faster, and the 
 third tier is insanely fast. You won't believe how powerful and quickly these final-tier cars drive. 
 NFS still runs at a modest 30 FPS with some framerate variation, though the game doesn't hitch 
 like Most Wanted.
  
  Progress
  Carbon's progression system is similar to THQ's Saint's Row. This is a good thing for the most 
 part. You start off as a nobody who once had it all but lost it, and you must start all over again. 
 You begin by choosing a car class. Since I've played this series for like eight years now, to experience 
 NFS in a different light I choose a muscle car, a Camaro SS. Muscle cars tend to be classic American 
 cars, thus they have big, fat V8s, they drive like dragsters with great acceleration and top speeds. 
 But they handle like merde. No difference here, at least at first. If you decide the first car 
 you chose was a bad decision, win races and beat bosses, and you'll earn money to buy new cars. 
 Or, like last year, after you beat a boss you can pick from a set of random cards, one of which 
 is the boss's pink slip.
  
  There are 40-plus cars to earn or unlock. Other muscle cars include the new Mustang GT, the Dodge 
 Charger SRT8, and the old Dodge Charger RT. While we're on the subject, the tuners feature the 
 Mazda Speed3, RX-7, RX-8, Eclipse GT, and Lotus Elise for starters. The tuners comprise the Alpha 
 Brera and Mercedes CLK 500, and a variety of Porsches.
  Each territory is made of a number of sections. In each section you'll see about three to four 
 races. You'll need to win each race to win a section and, from there, move in on a full territory. 
 Each territory is controlled by another gang, overseen by their leader, who visits you from time 
 to time as you creep into their space. While fighting for territory, a rival gang may challenge 
 you to a section you own. There are two choices, accept the challenge or reject it. If you race 
 and win, it's yours. If you lose, you can always re-try. This function works better in Saints Row 
 because the actual fighting was different each time. In Carbon, you simply race the same territory 
 as before, and instead of feeling like a real challenge, it's a chore. A new race or a different 
 take on a race would have sufficed. Once you take over a full territory the boss appears and challenges 
 you. You'll race once against the boss, and then take it to Carbon Canyon for a two-leg race.
 
  
  The two-part race takes place on steep narrow canyon roads built with huge S-turns and pliable 
 railings that give way to spectacular deaths if you mess up. The first race involves following 
 the boss as closely as possible. Your score is based on your proximity. In the second race he follows 
 you. Whoever gets the high score wins, as long as nobody has driven off the canyon walls beforehand. 
 Honestly, the first city race is usually harder than the canyon races, and in at least two of the 
 canyon races I was able to surge ahead of the boss in the first race, maintain the lead of about 
 five seconds, and beat him in a single route. The boss races in Most Wanted were tougher and more 
 complicated and thus more fun. These are different, but the final outcome is that the experience 
 is just OK. It's like a sideways move. These boss races are different than before, but like Gertrude 
 Stein said about Oakland, there is no there there. Plus, there are only four boss races, whereas 
 in Most Wanted there were 15.
  
  The crew is another so-so additon.
  2NewCrew
  Ripped straight from EA's NASCAR series is this year's crew feature. The crew is introduced through 
 and integrated into the storyline. The rag-tag crew of hopefuls are neither terribly funny nor 
 that interesting. They're all kind of creepy, to be honest. But that really doesn't matter. It's 
 what they do, or don't do, that matters. And what they do is little. There are three types, drafters, 
 scouts and blockers. Drifters provide a physical trail of color enabling you to follow them to 
 slingshot ahead. Their problem is that the courses don't provide enough straight-aways to use them 
 effectively enough and if you're fast enough you'll eliminate their usefulness. Scouts find shortcuts 
 hidden on your map. They find shortcuts that normally appear in NFS games without the need for 
 a scout, so they eliminate the joy of discovering them on your own. Blockers cause chaos. They 
 block opponents from creeping up on you. They function well enough and of the three types, they're 
 the most useful.
  
  But the addition of a crew is another sideways move. The triple-headed crew actually brings in 
 more problems than benefits to Carbon. Crew members regularly will get in your way; they'll slow 
 you down and perhaps even ruin a real chance of winning. They also win races for you. For some 
 people that might be a benefit. For me, I just felt like my experience was tampered with. The crew 
 is also always talking to you. It's like Halo's Cortana is there, except instead it's some mullet-headed 
 fat dude. You'll eventually get as many as six different members available for hire, but in the 
 end I prefer not having them at all.
  
  Create all sorts of excellent custom cars in Carbon. E. Honda wins again!
  Customization and Auto-Sculpting
 
  Need for Speed Underground introduced serious customization to the series and Most Wanted and 
 this year's Carbon add various wrinkles to the fold. As in previous games, players earn cash for 
 winning races. Each new win unlocks the ability to pick new parts and, of course, money. By pressing 
 a button (down on the Xbox 360 D-pad) , players can view a top-down map, pick a race to enter, visit 
 their safe house or a car lot, where cars can be bought and sold. In the Safe House, players can 
 customize their vehicles.
  
  In familiar fashion, individual parts or pre-made full-body kits can be purchased. The suite of 
 choices is solid, though it appears fewer engine performance options and upgrades are allowed than 
 in Underground 2. The new AutoSculpt option, however, makes up for that in part. Once you hire 
 a scout, you're enabled the option of sculpting your modified parts to new heights. Spoilers, bumpers, 
 skirts, hoods, you name it, you can tweak them all using a series of sliders. Admittedly, the effect 
 is purely visual. But hey, it's fun! And, when you're done tweaking the car (at least for Xbox 
 360) , you can take it online and show it off. Real Muscle
  EA's decision to take advantage of Ford's newly remade Mustang and Dodge's Charger is both opportunistic 
 and smart. Along with the online options, the addition of muscle cars is the biggest single change 
 the series has seen in core gameplay in years. The muscle cars drive differently than any other 
 car in the series and they affect the series in a central way.
  
  In Underground 2 EA tried to incorporate SUVs but with little success. The muscles are different. 
 These cars rock. They have huge up-front power and great top speeds. And, true to life, they handle 
 like crap. But hey, everyone liked Starsky and Hutch, right? I mean look at Driver the game. It's 
 built on sliding '70s hot rods. Still, EA has designed the muscle cars and the courses to work 
 together and better than in almost any other racer. Driving them is more like driving a rally car 
 on 100% pavement all the time. You have to start early and slide into each turn. The real reward 
 is modifying these beasts as you progress. The upgrades tighten the handling and cornering. The 
 top speeds and acceleration increase even further. And the ride is totally different than driving 
 either the tuners or the exotics. Try driving a muscle and then switch to the tuners, and you'll 
 see the difference right away.
  
  The variances between muscles, exotics and tuners is distinct.
  Catch That Drift
  EA Black 
 Box brought back drifting, replacing the drag racing from Most Wanted and it's a fully acquired 
 taste. Drifting isn't for everyone. EA uses a totally unique engine for the drifting races and 
 you'll notice the handling and physics right away. Each of the classes -- muscle, exotic, and tuner 
 -- drift differently. Luckily, if you dislike drifting, there isn't too much of it in Carbon (whic 
 was the case in Carbon) . Unfortunately, if you hate it, you'll find it difficult to avoid altogether.
 
  
  EA designed drift races to function so that emphasis is placed on skill and combos. Each player 
 must achieve the top score against his rivals. The best combos are created by attaining the highest 
 possible speed, keeping your car in the yellow paint (next to the walls) for as long as possible, 
 and linking combos together. Do it in a tuner and then try a muscle car. It's quite a difference. 
 Or try a tier three exotic. They're all completely distinct skill sets.
  
  Online Power
  EA eschewed adding online functionality on the current generation systems and has instead focused 
 on making it work well on Xbox 360, PS3 and PC. While that sucks for current gen owners, it's good 
 news for next-gen and PC systems owners. (And, for the record, Most Wanted wasn't online for PS2 
 anyway.) We played the Xbox 360 retail build against EA today for about two hours and the experience 
 was surprisingly fun. EA's servers still may very well cause problems (we'll have to wait to experience 
 this once the retail build is in hundreds of gamers' hands) , but our retail builds played well.
 
  
  Onlie matches permit up to eight gamers to race simultaneously. They consist of two race types 
 with a few variations, Pursuit Tag and Pursuit Knockout. Pursuit Tag consists of one racer against 
 all cops. The racer's goal is to avoid the cop cars for as long as possible. The player with the 
 highest points (and time logged) as the civilian racer wins. To get the chance to be the civilian 
 racer you must be the first to bust him or her.
  
  The graphics and sound are improved over Most Wanted.
  Pursuit Knockout is even more fun. This 
 is a lap racewith cops. Everyone starts out as a civilian and the last person to finish the first 
 lap transforms into a cop car. As the cop, your goal is to chase down and make as much contact 
 as possible with the other non-cop cars. In other words, as a cop you get to smash the crap out 
 of the other cars. In a nice bonus, the normal colored barriers that prevent you from exploring 
 the city in a race don't matter to cop cars. So, you can out-maneuver the speeder by hitting him 
 head-on. The only issue here is that the speeders are really wily, fast, and a lot harder to hit 
 than you might think. Quite quickly several of our games turned into insanely comedic Blues Brothers 
 scenarios. It was humiliating/hysterical to see the inane blunders! You might think you had a speeder 
 cornered with a head-on and then he fakes right, goes left, and instead of a killer point-grabbing 
 knockout, you miss him and smash into three oncoming cop cars as the speeder zips by.
  
  On the next gen systems, you'll also be able to race in a series of cooperative courses with as 
 many as four players. Though these are just basic races, these co-op challenges are like playing 
 with your crew, who happen your friends -- which is twice as fun. Lastly, if you own a Xbox 360, 
 PC or have the chance to buy a PS3, then you can auto sculpt your car to the ultimate level AND 
 bring it online to show it off.
  
  Graphics and Sound
  Carbon stands out against Most Wanted. Most Wanted seemed to take place in a fictitious Seattle-like 
 area: There were lots of forests, country by-ways, and lakes that, well, looked like parts of Washington. 
 If you weren't keen on last year's environments, you'll like Carbon. It is a return to the sparkling 
 urban lights of Underground 1 and 2. The game is filled with sparkling lights, darker night levels, 
 and a distinctly urbane look. Special effects adorn the city streets and fast-paced cars. Streams 
 trail off cars to enhance the visual sense of speed. Blur effects are always working to provide 
 a great sensation of velocity. And nox injections will boost the sense of speed even further. Or 
 the speed breakers will slow time down. The customization enables creative control over your cars, 
 which adds to the sense of visuals, and of course, the FMV-filtered characters incorporated into 
 game environments create a distinct visual appeal (even if this year's game over-does it a little) .
 
  
  On the sound side, Carbon takes the over-the-top sound from Most Wanted and gives it a kick in 
 the pants. You'll hear greatly altered engine effects; you'll experience a dramatic set of sonic 
 sounds infused into the cutscenes and transition sequences; you'll hear the sweet in-take of NOX. 
 You'll also hear the realistic cop radio chatter ranging from casual level-one pursuits to level 
 three crackdowns. The music is energetic and turbulent. It increases in volume and intensity as 
 you're being chased by cops, and there is a good mix of rock and techno tunes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grihn
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 30, 2007 10:10 pm PT
Review:  Let's start with the good. The graphics are simply awesome. It's really one of the best looking 
 racing games out. Sound is also supurb. The story is good and even believeable. The racing system 
 is fun... basically it's Need for Speed, what else do you need to know? You get that classic racing 
 feel, and you get to drive insanely fast. But, unfortunately there are some problems. To start 
 off, the game crashes to the desktop quite often. It seems to happen the most when you are browsing 
 through your cars, looking to buy a new one, or customizing one of your own. Then, the cops. I 
 really wish they had done this different. You can have a tier one RX-8 or a tier 3 Viper and it 
 hardly makes a difference. You cannot simply outrun the cops. Where's the realism there, EA? Basically 
 you have to outdrive them.... seriously outdrive them. Cornering usually won't do, they keep up 
 too well. Even with the speedbreaker, they can flip a 180 just as fast as you can. You basically 
 have to ram the hell out of them and turn nonstop, and you'll eventually get away. Then there are 
 boss battles. The canyon duals for me are fun. However, you have to race them in a circut (2 laps) 
 first. There is no save between the circut and canyon, and you cannot switch cars, put on a new 
 part you just won (like a stage 3 turbo) after beating a boss in the circut. And with the crashing, 
 this is not good. It doesn't even save immediately after you win a canyon dual, so you need to 
 be careful, or you'll find yourself racing the bosses over and again. Lastly is territory attacks. 
 The game works by you conquering new territory. You win a few races in a given territory, you win 
 it. Problem is, rival teams will try to attack your territory and gain it for themselves. That 
 in itself is a neat idea. The problem comes in that you must defend your territory as soon as it 
 is under attack, or you'll automatically loose it. You can't put the race off until you feel like 
 it. It's just annoying.
  
  In conclusion, Need for Speed Carbon is definately an awesome game, and should be picked up by 
 any fans of the genere. Still, if EA plans to release another Need for Speed game, I really hope 
 they address some of these issues. Who knows, perhaps some day we'll have that perfect game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IonescoF
Rating: 7.9
Date: May 2, 2007 6:30 am PT
Review:  From the first Need for Speed, gamers were seduced by the idea of driving exotic cars at high speeds 
 without dealing with the speed limits of real roads. Over the years, the concept hasn't changed 
 much. The third installment in the series introduced police pursuits, while Need for Speed: Porsche 
 covered all the models of the famous producer. However, the main idea hasn't changed much. Need 
 for Speed: Underground was the one to truly change the setting. Inspired from The Fast and the 
 Furious , the game focused on illegal races in urban settings, assorted with nitrous, neons and 
 vinyls. The latest installment in the 10-year old series, Need for Speed: Carbon, doesn't bring 
 too many additions to the Underground formula, but instead continues the story from Most Wanted.
 
  
  If in Most Wanted you tried to reach the top of the blacklist, in Carbon you have to conquer Palmont 
 City. The game begins with you entering this new city, after escaping Rockport in Most Wanted. 
 Sgt. Cross from the previous game has become a bounty hunter. He catches you at the beginning of 
 the game, but fortunately Darius, your former business partner, arrives and saves you from jail. 
 In exchange, you'll have to do something for him - namely, conquering the entire city!
  
  It doesn't matter though if you haven't played the previous games, in Carbon you start all over 
 again. While escaping from Cross, your car is totalled and you have to choose between three different 
 types of cars - muscle, exotic and tuner. The choice you will make is very important, as it determines 
 what car parts you will unlock and where you will start. For example, if you choose the muscle 
 car, you may have problems in handling it, but instead you will start in Kempton, the zone with 
 the easiest races and the easiest boss.
  
  Palmont City is divided in four major areas - Kempton, Downtown, Fortuna and Silverton - each split 
 in several smaller areas. Each territory is owned by a certain racing crew. In order to obtain 
 a territory, you need to complete at least 2 out of 3 races on that territory. There are four major 
 racing crews in Palmont - TFK, Bushido, 21st Street and Stacked Deck - as well as several minor 
 crews. Initially, each minor crew has a certain area in control, but pretty fast, the major crews 
 will obtain full control on their nearby territories. From then, the minor crews will start bugging 
 you and other crews with defence races. When you enter the turf of a rival crew, you may get challenged 
 by a member of that crew. You can choose where the finish line is. If you win, you get a cash reward. 
 However, near the end of the game, you will be challenged even more often, which is at least bizarre, 
 since you technically control the entire city.
  
  But until winning the city and ending the career mode, you will have to gain reputation by winning 
 more and more races. The more races you win, the more new events will be unlocked. There are several 
 types of races - circuit, sprint, speedtrap (get high speeds in certain points of the track) , checkpoint, 
 drift, canyon sprint (easiest type of canyon races, because you don't have to think about falling 
 off the cliff) , canyon checkpoint, canyon drift and canyon duels. In drift events , you score points 
 by drifting your car at corners. The faster you drift, the more points you achieve. Hitting walls 
 ends your drift, which is pretty frustrating when you are pulling out big combos. Drifting works 
 slightly different from the previous installments, but not better. Sometimes the hitting walls 
 sensor is either too sensitive or too insensible. Especially the canyon drifts leave no room for 
 error. The real problem with drifts though is that trying to avoid hitting walls is the harest 
 thing to do. Using NOS and staying in the bonus zone is a certified recipe for victory, if you 
 manage to avoid walls.
  
  Don't worry though if you don't master drifting. You will never encounter more than one drift event 
 in a territory, which means you can easily win the game without even trying drift events. Since 
 the streets of Palmont aren't proper for drags, drag events are no longer part of this Need for 
 Speed game, which is certainly good news for those who never managed to learn how to switch gears. 
 However, to beat Carbon, you need to master canyon races. By far the most frustrating races from 
 Carbon, canyon duels are usually part of boss races, but can also be seen as normal events in Silverton. 
 Set in canyon serpentines near Palmont, canyon duels consist of two runs; in the first run, your 
 opponent is in front and you have to stay close to him and put pressure on him. The closer you 
 are, the more points you will achieve. In the second run, you are the leader. The boss will try 
 to reduce points from your score, therefor, it's vital to have a big amount of points after the 
 first run. If you run out of points, you lose. You can also lose easily if you are too far from 
 him or if you fall off the cliff (most likely thing to do within those infernal serpentines) . If 
 you overtake your opponent in the first run and maintain it for 10 seconds, you automatically win 
 the race. Out of all, the most frustrating factor is the track itself. Otherwise, with some practice, 
 you can easily get close to your opponent. The rest of the game is surprisingly easy, which makes 
 canyon races certainly give you a shock due to their unbalance level of difficulty. Something more 
 than a video tutorial surely would have helped a lot. What the game never mentions is that, if 
 you slam your opponent, instead of getting more points, your score is reduced. If in the second 
 run your opponent hits you, however, you get more points. Utterly ridiculous rules, since the game 
 is supposed to encourage you to put pressure on your opponent. However, the beautiful scenes from 
 the canyon tracks make up for it. The reflections of the lights from the city in the water are 
 certainly beautiful, too bad you never have the time to enjoy the view.
  
  Talking of bosses, they aren't very inspired. Not only that they look 10 times uglier in the game 
 than in the FMVs, but they also have the exact same superior attitude that generates very similar 
 sentences like I don't know what's more pathetic: your crew or your car or You can't even touch 
 me . When you race though, their only worry is distracting you. Whenever you crash, you can be 
 sure your opponent will give a sardonic laughter. At least when you overtake them, they are more 
 original - they either look amazed or jump off the seat shouting NOOOOO! . These distracting moments 
 are understandable during boss races, but you can also seen them racing with all the other drivers 
 in Silverton and it is plain irritating to notice that the former boss is laughing of your crashes, 
 even though you're in the first place and he's very far away. X-ray vision, mayhaps?...
  
  The attraction of Most Wanted, police pursuits are back in Carbon. Depending on what infractions 
 you've made, your car has a certain heat attached to. On Heat 1, your infractions hardly get noticed, 
 but on Heat 5, the pursuit is getting the looks of a warfare. Spike strips, federal pursuit cars, 
 giant SUVs and tons of headache are serious reasons why you shouldn't try to reach Heat 5 too often. 
 You can escape pursuits by getting out of police's sight or use a Pursuit Breaker. Marked as red 
 triangles on the map, Pursuit Breakers are various traps that, once activated, disable the nearby 
 police cars. Another way to escape pursuits is using Speedbreaker (an equivalent of Bullet Time 
 that slowdowns your car - good for tight routes) , but Pursuit Breakers get you out of trouble far 
 easier. Once getting out of their sight, you enter Cooldown mode. Until the pursuit is over, you 
 need to find a Hiding Spot (marked with circles on the map) so that you wouldn't find another police 
 car patrolling and therefor resuming the pursuit. It isn't a big problem on the first heat levels, 
 but afterwards, the Cooldown takes a lot of the time without being in a Hiding Spot. However, if 
 you do get busted, there's nothing to worry much about. Unless you don't have anymore cash to pay 
 fines, you get out of jail in no time, but you should be worried though about your car's impound 
 strikes. After 3 Impound Strikes, your car is permanently lost, but you can get another one or 
 increase the number of Impound Strikes that can be supported with a card you might get from a boss 
 after beating him.
  
  Disabling police cars in Carbon resembles Takedown from the Burnout series. You can disable a police 
 car by giving it a serious slam or several slams in the wall, but Pursuit Breakers are the most 
 efficient way to disable your pursuers. Also, hitting a rig that would release its cargo on the 
 cops is pretty efficient. Each time you disable a police car, a screen shows you the amount you 
 added towards your bounty. Disabling a federal pursuit vehicle gives you much more points than 
 disabling a police car on Heat 1. If you disable a SUV, you can easily get tons of points towards 
 your bounty. Too bad it's irrelevant how much bounty you get, because it's just a number that will 
 appear on the Statistics page in Main Menu, but with no effects on gameplay. The developers could 
 have used bounty to make new modes or even introduce some bounty hunters (like Cross) that would 
 pursue you after getting a certain amount of bounty points, but they haven't done that.
  
  We are talking about a driving game, so it is very important for such a game to have a serious 
 amount of licensed cars. Carbon offers an eclectic collection of around 30 cars, each pair of 10 
 cars belonging to a certain type of car: muscle, exotic or tuner. Carbon includes models from companies 
 such as Ford, Cadillac, Mazda, Chevrolet, Lamborghini or Porsche, from classic models to luxurious 
 prototypes. Sure, 30 cars is a small number compared to what Gran Turismo or Project Gotham Racing 
 offer, but Carbon has enough interesting cars for everyone. It is worth trying to unlock the top 
 models such as Lamborghini Murcielago as these are the most performant from their class.
  
  In Carbon there's no way you can win races without customizing your car. A stock car doesn't have 
 important parts such as nitrous, so you'll have to get nitrous as soon as you unlock it, as it 
 often make the difference between victory and defeat. You should also buy more performant packages 
 for car parts such as the engine, as they easily increase your performance. In the first Underground 
 game, you could choose the same car part from several different companies, but the models had no 
 difference in performance. In Carbon, they do, and the driving style can depend on what type of 
 tires you have, for example. There are also three other customizing categories: autosculpt, aftermarket 
 and visuals. Technically, you can radically transform the look of certain car parts using Autosculpt, 
 but you are limited to pre-defined shapes. Also, you will need to have certain crew members hired 
 when you are accessing Autosculpt to have access to those parts. Aftermarket consists of things 
 such as body kits, hoods or spoilers. Within the Visual category, you can change the look of your 
 car, your tires, your window tint and you can even change the height of your ride, but unfortunately 
 neons are no longer in Carbon.
  
  Carbon also includes a brand new gameplay mechanism - wingmans. Wingmans are your crew companions 
 that help you during races. There are three types of wingmans - blockers, drafters and scouts. 
 Whenever you want, you can activate them by pressing a certain button. Blockers knockout opponents 
 so that you can take the lead. When activated, drafters leave a blue trace behind their car. If 
 you stay for few seconds in that trace, you can get a significant speed boost. Scouts leave a neon 
 trace for guidance through tight/dark routes and leave green dots on the map when crossing shortcuts. 
 Practically, they find the shortest way around the track. The problem with wingmans is that they're 
 pretty useless. Blockers aren't too efficient towards the end, there are few roads in Palmont that 
 could really be used for drafting and shortcuts are pretty easy to discover, with minor exceptions. 
 Sometimes though, when it's a bit harder to beat a race, they can easily win it for you. However, 
 most of the races don't take more than few tries to beat even without the help of a wingman.
  
  In the previous games, the design of the cities were considered pretty generic, but not the 
 same can be told about Palmont. The city has pretty many distinctive elements, but some of them 
 are inspired from real life cities (for instance, there are many elements in Silverton that resemble 
 Las Vegas) . Each division has also a certain heat attached to, depending on how often the police 
 patrols in that area. If the heat of an area is too high, stop racing for a while in it and the 
 heat level will drop. Overall, the city is good looking and the game offers enough interesting 
 graphics. Sure, it takes some while until unlocking Silverton for free roam, but it's definitely 
 worth the effort, as Silverton is by far the most beautiful area out of all.
  
  Along the Career mode, Carbon also offers 32 series of challenges from all types of races, as well 
 as a Quick Race and a Custom Match mode. Too bad the last two modes are exclusively online, which 
 means users that can't have an account on EA Nation are stuck with Career and Challenge Series.
 
  
  Once the last race is completed, however, you don't feel like you've just conquered an entire city 
 and beat the game. Everything except the canyon races is almost too easy. When you conquer a territory, 
 you don't feel like you've made a huge step to conquering the city. The problem is that everything 
 is a bit too superficial. It takes only few minutes to conquer a territory. Once you conquer it, 
 you unlock a new car (part) and your crew controls it, but you never get a serious benefit out 
 of it.
  
  Like all games from EA, Carbon is delivered with an EA Trax - a customizable soundtrack out of 
 which you can select which song to play and which not. Carbon's EA Trax manages to be surprisingly 
 good. From hip-hop to rock and electro-clash, the soundtrack covers several genres and manages 
 to create a feeling of variety without being just a random mix of licensed tracks. Without a doubt, 
 the soundtrack of Carbon fits perfectly the atmosphere in Palmont, with minor exceptions. It's 
 pretty bad though that EA Trax is only heard during Free Roam, since there is also music especially 
 composed for Carbon that is used in pursuits and most of the races, which isn't bad either, but 
 this time EA Trax actually deserved to be properly used.
  
  After you finish the game, you can try to continue spending time in Free Roam or try completing 
 some more Reward Cars or trying to finish the game using another car class. Also, there are 32 
 Challenge Series you can try to complete. They are pretty good, but it only lasts for a small amount 
 of time. In the end, Carbon leaves you with a sour taste in the mouth. Yes, it is fun while it 
 lasts. Yes, it is a stylish arcade racer you can easily enjoy. But still, it could have been far 
 better than this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Daniel8888
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 27, 2007 7:44 pm PT
Review:  This review is for all of you (like myself) who doesn&acute; t play NFS Most Wanted.
  I say that because the majority reviews making censures about this game, are based on Most Wanted 
 last impressions. Not my case. Now:
  
  About the downsides pointed by other reviewers of the game:
  
  Short Career Mode: True. But 
 it&acute; s intense form the begining to end. I don&acute; t remember of any NFS who keep me as addict 
 as this one. The two undergrounds before it, at a certain point give me the sensation: This will 
 never end? I&acute; m tired of doing the same things ,in the same roads over and over, and over 
 again . That make me feel relief in the end of those games. I prefer the actual sensation of So 
 soon? 
  
  Stupid Crew members: They really can be irritating sometimes. But this inovation adds so much fun 
 to each race, with the dialogs, the different functions of crew members and the bonus they can 
 provide that makes this little flaw a forgiveble one.
  
  Little range of modifications and upgrades: Yes, this is a true one. You onli can buy Window  
 bumpers and the (for me unnecessary) roof scoops. And each one of these has a little amout of different 
 models. They try to compensate it with autosculp. But
  it&acute; s just not enough. The autosculp toll is just too limited for me. I don&acute; t feel that 
 wasn&acute; t necessary some modification options in Underground 2, like the nitro smoke, the stereo 
 and those open -up doors. But in this game less, is less.
  
  Music: 29 of the famous and enjoyed EA TRAX, who barely shows its face here. You hear the most time 
 the pre-made musics of the game. The sound was always an unanimous part of the game. Why they tried 
 to fix what wasn&acute; t broken? The only ambiental music who REALLY makes it up, and deserves 
 its place are the Canion Duel ones. They&acute; re perfect to create the tension of that ride.
 
  
  Cops, or, better saying, the abscense of them:
  
  Don&acute; t thik they are underpriciated here. They have the just part in the game, no more, no 
 less. They only don&acute; t show up if you always use the jump to option, who avoid you from riding 
 in the city. And, betwen us, now and then, this little new feature its handy when you get tired of 
 going around the city. I, ve played the game for a week by now, and had plenty of pursuits. Oh, 
 and for those who says that the cops are too easy in Carbon: Wait until your car reaches the heat 
 level five...
  
  I think that they could mantain the shops like in Underground 2. now that the cops come back it 
 wold be a lot more fun going in that hidden stores, while trying to scape. Another modification 
 bored me: now it&acute; s not you that challenge your opponentes; they challenge you instead of 
 it. And they are a lot fewer than undeground 2. So iyou depends on the PC good mood to have off 
 the script challenges. If they could ajust this little things, along the city would be fun for 
 the first time
  
  To close this, I just can say that I bought it, and I like it very much. Don&acute; t regret about 
 it. I&acute; m tired. But the amount of time used in the review says how i care about this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rainkash
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 25, 2007 10:01 am PT
Review:  When i first played NFSU i was like oh this game is pretty realistic, no car damage, but the performance 
 and the sensation of racing is pretty good . NFSU2 was incredible, with all the new sensation of 
 street racing, challenging some dudes on the street, good story, etc. Most wanted was even better, 
 with that black list and all the cops, well, it was the sensation of playing Need for Speed Saga 
 again. Well Nfs carbon has arrived, and in my opinion is the worst NFSU ever made. All those effects, 
 shader and lights makes it look like a space ship game. No realistic sensation, this game is a 
 shame for all NFS Saga. It has good graphics i must admit, and u can also play with muscle cars, 
 but dude, cmon, who cares about that when u see things like race assistance , when another partner 
 smash his car against your opponent to give u some advantage, or another car mark the road with 
 a tail of light, i dont know but thats not pretty close to reality.
  
  In Conclusion i must say this game offers a lot a of new stuff, but useless stuff that it doesn't 
 help with the gameplay and everything. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LoZwii
Rating: 6.6
Date: Apr 13, 2007 6:35 pm PT
Review:  After playing MW i was really impressed, so i expected this one to be just as good, unfortunately 
 i was disappointed. The main problem was that it was so easy, i really liked the fact that MW was 
 actually a challenge to defeat, this took me at most 10 hrs, another thing was the sound track, 
 it was crap compared to MW, and most of the time it played its own theme music, which is like a 
 series of strange noises mixed together, it almost sounds like when you're using speedbreaker, 
 oh and after you finish a race you cant just re-race it for the same amount of money it resets 
 to 500 a race, so now it's incredibly hard to get new upgrades and cars. Another problem was that 
 even though i said it was easy before, that meant that the non-boss races are easy, the first boss 
 race is REALLY hard, so it's like your breezing by and you hit a boss race and you come to a dead 
 stop trying to beat the boss, it was annoying.
  
  Some good additions were autosculpt where you can design your car, in terms of the hood, roof, 
 the front, the back, the skirt (side of car) , the spoiler, and even the exhaust tip if you want, 
 oh and my favorite part the rims, you can create a car like no other if you want, it's very versatile. 
 The stock parts are good too, there are a lot of everything including every custom rim you could 
 want, almost any stock spoiler, and so on. Some other good things are the cars, they are rich in 
 detail and are actually fast cars, the ground and city are vibrant and it looks as real as a video 
 game possibly could be, also the territory wars are a good idea, at least in my opinion. The racing 
 is also really fun with its twists and turns the game will have nothing but your attention while 
 racing, oh one good thing about the sound is the engine noises, they are realistic, EA actually 
 went out and recorded what each individual car engine sounded like as it accelerated, and was at 
 top speed and so on.
  
  All in all this was a decent game, but i wouldn't pay 30 bucks for it again, maybe 20...
  when 
 the price comes down a bit i recommend you get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ldavidtw2000
Rating: 4.7
Date: Apr 8, 2007 8:39 pm PT
Review:  The thing is, the only difference between this one and Most Wanted is racing at night, and a few 
 more style to play the game.
  
  and somehow I think they changed the story telling group, this story is terrible comparing to MW. 
 and many of these stories copied exactly from MW. for example, your M3 is taken after a really 
 short brief race to start the story, no creativity at all.
  the ending in MW was incredible, the story and how it turned out was intense and the final pursue 
 was crazy. this one..... ending is just like you took an area, he throw a few whining at you and 
 walk away, and that's it.
  Music is... eh... did I even hear any?
  Graphic is almost the same, but somehow requires a way better card then MW. Cops in here is just 
 retarded, they look, even sound EXACTLY the same in MW, same woman as adviser in MW.
  
  So let's see, terrible ending and storyline, terrible AI for cops or so, new but not fun crew racing 
 etc, nobody told you why you need to take over this city, requires a good graphic card but look 
 all the same...
  
  oh that's what i forgot, Muscle cars aren't even for human players, you touch left or right button 
 and they lose control and go parallel. Exotics are hard to control once you get to Tier 3. Night 
 racing just doesn't allow you to see anything if you play the game in afternoon and you have a 
 window in the room.
  
  A total letdown, disappointing, been there, done that, these all 100% discribe this game if you 
 played MW and loved that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slippeddisc
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 8, 2007 8:05 pm PT
Review:  EA's has always been a revolutionary bunch during its Need for Speed franchise, especially after 
 the release of Most Wanted which introduced police and car chases to the game play. Since the release 
 of Carbon not as much hype has been caused by its new style of game play, however I believe it 
 is an important addition to the advancement of driving games.
  
  Although EA has decided to minimize the emphasis of cops in Carbon from Most Wanted, the innovations 
 are plentiful. For instance the introduction of gang-play if you will. This team work approach 
 to each race has some great points to be made. It means that you no longer have to be alone in 
 your races, and gives you some opportunity to come back even if you are a lap behind. The three 
 types of wingmen you can have working with you in races are: Scouts who find all the plentiful 
 shortcuts in the races; the blockers (quite obviously) block your opponents from over taking you 
 or take them out to put you in front; and finally drafters let you draft behind them to gain speed 
 before getting a huge boost when you jump out of their draft. The downside is that your wingmen 
 don't follow you around after races as they would in real life.
  
  The story-line is a bit confusing by the end and the bosses aren't all as threatening as they could've 
 been, however the use of actors in CG environments for the cut-scenes like in Most Wanted is a 
 continuation of a great concept. Also the mountain duels are great with a more threatening consequence 
 for losing control of you car. Again the chance to win the bosses' cars when you beat them is a 
 great chance to not have to spend all your money in one place to improve your crappy stock car, 
 instead you can save it up and do-up a better car later on.
  
  Finally the soundtrack of Carbon compared to Most Wanted is terrible with a ton of 'Techno/Electric' 
 tracks, some Hip/Hop crap and only a few Rock songs. Personally the Most Wanted soundtrack was 
 much more fun to drive around the city with. The car chases which do have some decent music have 
 not been used as well as in Most Wanted and are never as intense and exciting.
  
  Overall the newest Need for Speed release is a disappointment as the potential was not utilized 
 as it was in Most Wanted. However still a decent driving game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: King_Lancelot
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 6, 2007 8:19 pm PT
Review:  Like i said i would like to say it's the best so far, but it just doesn't quite meet the hype it 
 got. I've been playing all the need for speeds (since Underground) and everytime they brought a 
 new one that made me completly speechless, they always brought something new in the game that was 
 unheard of. First underground you got to actually customize the look of your car, absolutly amazing 
 at the time. Underground 2 you roamed, that's right free-roam, picked races with other racers, 
 found seceret races for more money, raced for sponsors, and was genuinely great fun. Most wanted 
 had cops, and you started to customize exotics, while adding the ever fun challenge series, along 
 with new race styles (tollbooth is my fav. ;) . Now in carbon it throughs all of this together while 
 adding autosculp, and reward cards. Sounds good right? well there's some problems. First this game 
 is ridiculously easy. i beat the main part in 20 hours or less. The only reward cards that are 
 worth anything is next to impossible to get, and instead of being able to keep racing for the same 
 earnings, like in MW, it reduces it to like 500 or something, i only have two cars, while in MW 
 i have like six. About the only positive was the autosculp, but that got old quick. And i don't 
 know why, but i just didn't find this game fun, I thought this game was going to awe me once again 
 but it just wasn't there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eddy2by4
Rating: 7.3
Date: Mar 30, 2007 4:27 am PT
Review:  All the fans, including me have awaited the last how was said of the series under the name of Carbon.
 
  
  From the beginning Need for speed was one of the famous racing games ever, I remember playing very 
 often games la NFS Porsche ,and one I in my opinion NFS Underground was the most successful series 
 in NFS history ,an then the series that changed the gameplay was Most Wanted.
  
  After Most Wanted everybody expected, Carbon to be an 10 Rated game, with cool gameplay, action, 
 and storyline.
  
  In the end Carbon wasn`t so awesome as expected, very least the Canyon style`s, was a good idea 
 but practically the rivals where too bad at it, you could easily beat them. Too short, almost 15-20 
 hours of carrier is too short to a game of this type.
  
  Too short, awesome play, but not as much as expected. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Decoy23
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 29, 2007 9:37 am PT
Review:  Need For Speed Carbon is good, but I think it could be better.
  You start with canyon race with Cross from Rockport City (NFSMW) . Then you get busted. There is 
 EXOTIC, TUNER and MUSCLE cars. I think exotics are the best. In Palmont City there is 3 crews. 
 BUSHIDO is tuner crew. His leader is KENJI. He drive Mazda RX-7. TFK is exotic crew. His leader 
 is WOLF with Aston Marin DB9. 21st STREET is muscle crew. His leader is ANGIE. But, there is one 
 more crew on the end of game. His leader is Darius with Audi Le-Mans. Darius is your greatest rival. 
 His girl is Nikki (Later she will be yours) .
  Have fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sharier
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 29, 2007 6:25 am PT
Review:  When EA released the first NFS in 1996, I remember I downloaded the demo. It was a 'gigantic' file 
 of 5 mb. And I was highly impressed by the quality of the race and graphics -- even in DOS mode. 
 Ever since, every year I wait for a new installment of NFS, expecting more graphic charms and real 
 arcade style fast races. I love to play NFS mainly because of its speed in a nice virtual world. 
 And EA has always addressed this area, while adding new elements to the races.
  In Underground Carbon, the approach had been a storyline. The player races through a storyline, 
 and gets involved with the progress of the game. Well similar approach was made before in the Underground 
 series -- but this storyline has a clear-cut rival, who loves to ridicule you when you hit your 
 car. The new racing element is the canyon race, which sometimes feel great and sometimes feel too 
 irritating. Overall, the race components are good and satisfying.
  But outside the racing challenges, you really don't have any compulsion to increase your underground 
 scores, like bounty points etc. So you really do not need to bump on to some cops. Therefore the 
 exciting element of NFSU 2 is lost here.
  The graphics of the game is as usual excellent. But I felt that this one is quite resource hungry -- 
 hungrier than Half-life 2. I strongly recommend this game to anyone who loves speed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: g4m3add1ct
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 28, 2007 7:14 am PT
Review:  well it aint most wanted ppl.... or UG2, but its still a good arcade street racin game... to tell 
 u the truth i was so hooked to it that i completed the career 4 times, and played bazillion quick 
 races.... so u really wanna know whats this game abt ? Pros: 1-kinda nice graphics if u have a good 
 VGA, if u dont the graphics sucks a**.... not like MW, in MW even if u have a lame VGA.... it would 
 run gr8, but here... well u know.
  
  2-The canyon idea was nice and don let any1 tell u otherwise.... in fact it was one of the best 
 things EA put in its street racing series, canyon drifts was so much fun, and the Dual is just 
 thrilling...
  
  3-the territory idea was a nice twist, now the city is torn apart between car gangs, kinda like 
 GTA san andreas where u fight for territory.... but this time there is no blood shed...
  
  4- EA TRAX was AWEEESOME !! thats all i can say, like ea always do.... they put a very nice collection 
 that can satisfy any1 5- the crew!!!! what a freakin good twist !! they really kick ass when u 
 use them right, some ppl don know how to use them right so they say that they r useless.... hell, 
 blockers really help u to get rid of drivers thats givin u hard time.... drifters really help when 
 u dont have much time and u wanna get the opponent but the race is almost over, plus every1 of 
 ur crew have special tasks, like reduce the prices of some parts, unlocks certain parts... etcc.... whats 
 really useless is the scout... i don wanna say why, ull figure out for urself :D 6-the storyline 
 was good, and the cut scenes were ok
  Cons:
  
  1-Drifting kinda sucked, other than canyon..... the drift in canyon is amazing, the arena canyon 
 though.... wasnt like UG2... it was kinda lame
  
  2-There was no drag, which pretty much sucked 3- too much cut scenes, u get to the point where 
 u just wanna play the freakin game..... they r good but just too much
  
  4- the cops r the same like MW, but for some reason i didnt enjoy them
  
  5- the game is too 
 damn short
  
  thats it folks, i missed some parts that really doesnt matter but thats abt it.... buy the game 
 and see for urself.... to tell u the truth its worth it, but if u wanna buy other games, its not 
 a must buy... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mynameisntfree
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 26, 2007 12:11 pm PT
Review:  Need For Speed Carbon is a pretty neat need for speed. its graphics are in fact breathtaking. You 
 can see the damage done to your car after races and such. Yet when in the first person, you see 
 no damage to the hood or windows. I have played this game and felt like it was like Most Wanted. 
 All you do is drive around and get respect and buy better cars and race. Personally, I really enjoyed 
 the Underground. Number 1. I liked it because you didn't have to drive around. I just wanted to 
 race. Also, I was angry when they took out the drag races. Some say that they were boring but who 
 cares? I liked it because i was doing 100 and changing lanes at the last second. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rottenjoe
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 23, 2007 2:23 am PT
Review:  When i first got this game it look great . Filled with fun . But after playing this game for about 
 a day . I just figured that i am already 18% done with the game . Some good cut scenes , nice maps 
 , good roaming , beautiful graphics with nice engine sounds . But it turned out that this game 
 only took me 4 days to finish , compared to the stagering 15-25 days to finish need for speed most 
 wanted . ( about 2-3 hours a day ) Really good cars, and that autosculpt has made the game custmizing 
 a lot cooler and different . Making my cars hot and pimpin . but i think there was less cars then 
 the last game , and less of a map . Which all greatly dissapointed me . I dont know why they made 
 the game smaller, even tho it has the same grahpics as nfs: most wanted. they had no reason to 
 do something like this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkdesires
Rating: 7.1
Date: Mar 19, 2007 9:04 am PT
Review:  Graphics:
  
  As well as other need for speed games, the graphics are good and do not dissapoint, but, where 
 is the sun? Carbon leads the series back to the underground era, the game its all set in the night 
 and we never see the sun in Need for speed Carbon. why not making a night - day game? I don't know 
 but it was a good ideia since I am suck of the night thing, I was hoping Carbon had a night-day 
 system but it hasn't, it is night, night and more night. At least we have Most wanted to make some 
 races in daylight. So when you want race in the night, play Carbon, if you wish to race in the 
 day light, play Most wanted.
  Graphics are good but they are not a big evolution since Most wanted, the car models are excelent, 
 FMVs are great.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  In Carbon we have Muscle cars (Dodge Charger, Chevrolet Camaro SS, Shelby GT500) , Exotic cars (Lamborghini 
 Gallardo, Mercedes SLR Mclaren, Porsche Carrera GT) and Tunner cars (Mitsubishi Lancer, Mazda RX8, 
 Nissan 350Z) . Each one of this classes have diferent caracteristics, the muscle cars have a good 
 aceleration but are the most dificult to control, the tunners have a great handling but are less 
 powerfull, the exotics are the best at top speed.
  So the gameplay goes from car to car but the overall driving its satisfying with a mix from arcade 
 and simulation, the canyon races are cool but they are nothing so special to be the MAIN atraction 
 in the game.
  The crew system its a nice addition to the series, it allows you to have a crew and race with you 
 to block other cars for example.
  
  Sound:
  
  The engine sounds are really good specialy at the muscle cars, the soundtrack its cool but nothing 
 special just like other need for speed games, the special effects are good too.
  
  Lifetime:
  
  Ok, this is a bad thing of Carbon, you can finish the carreer mode really quick, 
 something like 5-6 hours of gameplay, it has a lot of extras and a replay bonus with other car 
 class but its steel not enough, Most wanted offered much more than Carbon offers.
  
  Performance:
  
  Carbon runs smooth with no problems in max details in a nice PC, you don't 
 need a top PC to play Carbon in its max, so there is nothing to point to the game performance, 
 it has been well optimized like other need for speeds.
  
  Final Comments:
  
  Carbon does little addition in the series, its a nice street racing game that can be ended fast.
 
  Most wanted offers more than Carbon so most wanted its still a best worth buying than Carbon, 
 the night ambient of Carbon isn't good cause the game gets too linear, nothing special in the sound.
 
  Carbon its just another Need for speed and another street racing game that will apeall to the 
 ones who like street racing and arcade driving. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ranbir_flame
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 18, 2007 3:02 am PT
Review:  EA has come back with its latest Need For Speed - Carbon. I have to say EA has done a pretty good 
 job with Carbon. They have put together the best of Underground 2 and Most Wanted. I was only disappointed 
 by the drift races. People who think they are the best at drifts in Underground 2 should think 
 again. The car response has changed completely making drifting harder. My favourite races are the 
 canyon duals. Like EA says you'll never survive it but you can if you know how to. You can find 
 all your favourite race types in this game. Drift, Circuit, Sprint, Canyon duals, Lap knockouts, 
 Checkpoints and 2 other online types. The only thing its missing is drag races. Thats a bummer! 
 Now you will have to race for territory and then become the best. I would give NFS Carbon 9/10. One 
 of the best made by EA.
  
  
  by:
  Ranbir 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hutapamo
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 17, 2007 12:57 am PT
Review:  Need For Speed Carbon is an awesome game. I cant stay one day without playing it. I am on 75% right 
 now. At the beginning it is very easy but as you get closer to the end it gets harder and harder. 
 People say this game is just like Need For Speed most wanted but infact it actually is not there 
 are completely different. The cool thing I like is the crew members, right now I activated the 
 girl, that is there at the start of the game. I have Unlocked many crew members. There is Sal, 
 Neville and Lots more, I like to challenge people in this game, especially the experts like me. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hadd3
Rating: 5.7
Date: Mar 16, 2007 11:59 am PT
Review:  The game itself is a great game, but the career mode gets really booring. Your racing all the time 
 to get more territory, and not much more. I know its a racing game but it could be a little bit 
 more deep. Its not really much story in the career mode. But the online mode is a great timekiller. 
 Its really fun to play and pretty much makes up for the lame career mode. Ive got to give props 
 for the cut scenes, getting the beautiful and pretty famous Emmanuelle Vaugier is cool for a game. 
 But, it is a decent game afterall, and if you liked the previous games you'd like this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ps2stony
Rating: 6.7
Date: Mar 11, 2007 5:05 pm PT
Review:  I was excited when I heard about this game, but after playing it I am quite disappointed. What 
 is the deal with taking out good things in the past games that worked. This is a bad way to try 
 and top Underground 2 and Most Wanted. Other than the new wingman option and the auto-sculpting 
 it was not all that cool. The whole object to win territory by winning races and beating bosses ( 
 Which i must say was extremely easy) . I DID THIS IN TWO DAYS!!! You also don't get any off the 
 good cars till your almost finished with the game. Unlike most Wanted the challenges are not integrated 
 with the career portion of the game as much. You do not have to pass certain challenges to get 
 to a boss and move on to the next level. All challenges do is unlock items that can be used in 
 career mode and trust me other than the Jaguar 2007 which is what I beat the game with there is 
 not much more items rewarding than that. That add-on is what made Most Wanted fun... Why should 
 I even miss with the challenges if it does not do any good for me in my career mode, and who cares 
 about reward cards unless it is going to get me to the next boss. Cops... what a joke no need to 
 cause damage, create huge pursuits, destroy them, if it isn't going to help your career. What happened 
 to all the upgrades and neon lights speaker you could add to your car? That was cool!!! I guess 
 people don't think that way anymore because it was not in Carbon. Well overall the Graphics kicked 
 butt, the Audio was nice, but the game play quick simple , easy, fun , but wish I wish there was 
 more to it. Come on EA Give us Most Wanted Mixed with Underground 2, and Carbon all together in 
 one pot that would be kick #$$!!!! Till next time 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sexyskyline08
Rating: 5.9
Date: Mar 10, 2007 1:31 pm PT
Review:  I was quite disappointed with this game for many reasons. I can understand that the graphics won't 
 look as good because it's at night but the soundtrack sucked!! The police chases are tiring and 
 so are the defensive races. The only good thing about the game is the collection of cars. I was 
 a little upset with the Need for Speed Most Wanted for the simple fact that it didn't have very 
 many tuner cars. I love my Nissan Skyline and I also love Supra's, Mitsubishi Evo's, and 350Z's 
 but it didn't have but only one of those. In this game it had all of them. The thing that makes 
 this game so annoying for me is the fact that you have a certain amount of money and if you spend 
 it all you are basically screwed. I didn't upgrade my cars until the very end of the game so I 
 could get the 1,000,000 bank card reward and even with me saving up all that money I still didn't 
 have enough to modify all of my cars! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krizzz_666
Rating: 4.5
Date: Mar 1, 2007 10:29 pm PT
Review:  in this review i will tell the world my thoughts about need for speed carbon
  
  graphics:
  
  EA use's motion blur and a couple of other anoying special effects to cover up 
 ugly graphics, and the game does not support wide-screen
  so i had to play the game with very wide cars. Another irritating thing is that if you play 3rd 
 person without motion blur the car seem to be lagging in a strange way. Personally i like to play 
 1st person so i guess its doesn't mather... (for me)
  
  gameplay:
  
  the steering is super-unrealistic, kinda like in the outrun and burnout series.
  until you get 
 to about 50% in the game the game is way to easy (so easy thats its boting) but when you get to 
 50% it becomes so hard that all race's becomes irritating.
  
  Music: i dont see the reson in having music in a pc racing game since its a pc ppl's have their 
 own music for *&amp;2&pound; sake. (just my opinion.)
  the music is what you would expect from a new NFS game you can choose from ca. 30 mainstream pop 
 songs, (no pop rock thought)
  
  conclusion :
  
  okay.. this game is definetly not worth more then around 15 bucks if your not a hardcore NFS fan 
 or you **** money 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maester-Slayer
Rating: 3.2
Date: Feb 28, 2007 10:37 am PT
Review:  I have to say this game wa sa serious disappointment. A freind lent me his CD for my computer, 
 I'm glad I never bought this game. it's so bad. I beat the ENTIRE career mode in 9 hours, i think 
 I lost 3 races in total.
  
  Compared to most wanted, this game is like pac-man.
  
  The basics are there, but there is nothing to bring you back.
  
  The cop chases, to easy, I 
 think i got in 5 for the entire game. And they were irritating.
  
  Cars were unrealistic.
  
  A caymen does not handle that crummy. It may not be a 911, but its 
 still good. far better then the game portrays.
  
  70% of the canyon races, I won by passing my opponent. Especially that one women with the muscle 
 car, I passed her on the first turn.
  
  The catch up is so bad!
  
  At one point, i almost slid off the canyon. I turned around and kept going.
  
  2 corners later 
 my opponent was stopped waiting for me, i passed him effortlessly and won no problem.
  
  This game is so easy!
  About the only limitation in this game is money!
  
  Glitchy!
  Why 
 upgrade your crew members cars? Does it actually make a difference.
  I upgraded nevil as much as I could, then after i reload game, all the peroformance parts for the 
 tier 1 cars are re locked? huh? Good thing I had already upgraded to a tier 2 car!
  
  The Screeching!
  Why is every subtle movement accompinenid by tire screeching, and its so loud! 
 Thats all I did for my first 10 races, try and turn that noise down.
  
  Music?
  Was their music in this game? The only song I actually liked was the menu songs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uchitha
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 26, 2007 8:46 pm PT
Review:  Well it was not such a good a game. Comparatively i would say Most Wanted was better. Not much 
 of a graphics difference and the involvement of the cops is not as much as in the Most Wanted. 
 The only thing Most Wanted lacking was the night time racing, coz in the reality lot of street 
 races are held at night. Carbon has that feature but anyway the best would always be to have both 
 night and day time racing.
  
  The ending was very disappointing, i expected a nice story afterwards but it just ended like that. 
 some new technologies have been used to create the characters in graphics with the same facial 
 impressions but i don't think it makes a huge difference.
  
  The crew idea is good and thats something good, i didn't find scouting very interesting but Blocking 
 and Drafting was good. Apart from that its just a NFS continuation i would say. Hopefully the next 
 would be good, Im looking forward to it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ketsapoulse1989
Rating: 7.9
Date: Feb 23, 2007 6:10 am PT
Review:  The first time i played Carbon it was one hell of night but after playing on internet i have become 
 loving it now i'm going to talk about it from good to bad .
  -----------------------
  Graphics : for real i think most wanted have more detailed graphics but Carbon not bad at all its 
 have great refelxes and lightning which makes it good game to look at . Sounds : good cars sound 
 and engines but the missed the great heavy metal song they used to put wich makes it normal sounds 
 for me .
  
  Gameplay : here we are at its great gameplay thats all what i can say about it great online play 
 and singleplay but it needs more better story.
  
  ---------------------
  The Bad : no real cops like MW , normal sounds with no heavy metal music as we used to have in 
 NFS .
  The Good : great graphics and amazing game play . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djnet
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 20, 2007 2:28 pm PT
Review:  Carbon continues the story where Most Wanted left off. For those just tuning in, Most Wanted ended 
 with you recovering your stolen car and bailing out of the city of Rockport while the overzealous, 
 anti-street-racing Sgt. Cross continued his pursuit. At the start of Carbon, you're making your 
 way to Palmont City when Cross, now a bounty hunter, catches up with you and totals your car during 
 the chase. Before he can collect his bounty on you, though, your old friend Darius steps in and 
 pays off Cross. You are then put to work, taking over the turf of the other rival street-racing 
 crews in Palmont City. It seems that you've got a history in this town that predates the events 
 in Most Wanted. And during the course of the game, you'll learn more about that fateful night you 
 skipped town. Different characters will give their takes on the night you supposedly ran off with 
 a big red duffle bag full of cash. And by the end of the game, you'll not only find out what really 
 happened, but you'll have taken over all of the street-racing territory in Palmont City. Outside 
 of the actual gameplay, one of the more endearing aspects of Most Wanted was the way it used live 
 actors in CG environments for its story sequences. These sequences invariably featured plenty of 
 actor/model types, trying a little too hard to talk tough and failing spectacularly at it. The 
 technique remains the same in Carbon, though there are more story sequences now and a slightly 
 more self-aware tone. The heavy use of flashbacks is an interesting idea, but the story ends up 
 being kind of muddled. And none of the villains come off as particularly menacing. Although it's 
 hard to really qualify any of it as sincerely good, it's just over-the-top enough that folks who 
 enjoy stuff like The Fast and the Furious, ironically or otherwise, should get some enjoyment out 
 of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dom84ts
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 19, 2007 6:40 am PT
Review:  When i finished NFS most wanted i said my self that the next NFS should be Amazing, perfect, innovative 
 but.....
  
  Audio: boring/poor nothing new or on my opinion good
  Graphics: yes ok in this game are very good. Also good details.
  Game play: in game i consider 
 also some aspects of the game like AI!
  Also in this version of NFS the police is able to chase a Lamborghini or a Porche Gt!????? How?? 
 Have they got aircraft engines?? mah.
  During the races i used nos and the other challengers were always behind me! So it was impossible! 
 I insert the cheat (only to do an experiment) of infinite nos!
  I made some races using nos in every place was possible to use it and guess??... the other challengers 
 were still behind me!!! HOW??? I hoped those things were fixed in this version but not! very disappointing! 
 Very very disappointing! They have also left out the drag races!!! how can you give a such a high 
 score to this game??? During a race if you have a teammate and his one of the last and you ask 
 his help, magically he arrives to you in a few seconds!!! And also... why if you crash on another 
 challenger is impossible to kick him away from the road?? which is the weight of his car?? Maybe 
 it is a truck with a car skin!!?? :)
  
  If they're going to make the changes that i suggested maybe my value will not be only around 6 
 but higher!! ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cashuea
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 18, 2007 8:42 pm PT
Review:  Out of all of the Need for speed game i have played, this one is more like a bad soap opera than 
 a real game. The whole storyline features you being a john doe of the street racing world. I wont 
 spoil the story, but i will say that it gets stale really fast. Gameplay wise, its like most any 
 other NFS, you buy a car from the lot if you got the money and race it. Lucky, you can unlock performance 
 parts to improve the car and you can also unlock vinals, paint, and autocsculp parts to pimp out 
 your ride. Money management seems to be a big part of the game as well as you will have to balance 
 out buying new cars and parts between your fines when you get busted by the police (and you will 
 if your heat meter is high enough.) In the end, this game is strictly for the NFS fans. Other people 
 may find better racing games out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VercettiTommyy
Rating: 7.9
Date: Feb 18, 2007 12:37 pm PT
Review:  I always liked the Need for Speed series,&amp; I played all the games in it. My favorite ones were 
 Most Wanted, Underground 2 &amp; Porche Unleashed,&amp; my least favorite was High Stakes, which 
 I consider to be one of the worst racing games ever. In NFS Carbon, things go exactly the same as 
 in MW or Undergrounds, just the territory conquests, the crew &amp; the autosculps mode, which gives 
 you the possibilyty to tune unique cars; are new. The graphics for cars are superb, but the rest 
 suck. It's night again, but this time there are low quality textures. The sound is recicled from 
 MW,&amp; the music is awfull, except the one in the canyons, oriental one, which sound really nice. 
 The police pursuits lack atmosphere, but there are nicer pursuit breakers &amp; some big explosions. 
 What have you done with the drifts?????!!!! They are stupid,&amp; almost impossible to play. I understand 
 why the drags are missing: It'll be to esy to pass them with a Muscle. It's really nice to play, but 
 whwn you get in Darius's turf, things get too hard. Nikki (Emanuelle Vaugier) looks very good, but 
 that horrible costume &amp; haircut make her less atractive than Josie Maran from MW (even though 
 she isn't) . I was disappointed with Carbon,&amp; I hope that next year I won't make a review for 
 the next NFS &amp; give it a 5 or so. We need speed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: indzman
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 16, 2007 1:27 pm PT
Review:  Need For Speed Carbon is a decent racing game from NFS series. You get the racing action during 
 nights. The graphics / Visuals in the game is okay. The maps in the game like urban streets and 
 canyons roads looks stunning. Some of the characters in the game looks quite attractive. The soundtracks 
 in the game are cool. Overall the game has good soundquality. You can customise your cars in the 
 game. The gameplay is entertaining and the boss racing fights are quite challenging .The cop chases 
 are more fun. You get different types of racing style in the game to keep you thrilled .Hit on the 
 nitro for extreme fun. You get multiplayer / lan feature in the game to play online with your freinds 
 .This game is a must play for racing lovers and not to be missed . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: faladore
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 12, 2007 1:59 pm PT
Review:  Ok this is my 3rd year at college and this game was exactly what i was looking for. If you want 
 a game where you can play a couple of races and be off within 15 to 30 min this is it. I find it 
 fun in many ways: first you can design your cars and give them a sick look; second you can have 
 some fun races.; third the police AI is not bad etc.
  However, this game will crash on you at any second... i played 80% of the game and then it crashed 
 .... i started it again and still had my cars but i was at 0% again. WTF so i quit playing but 
 i still did its job distracting me for a while. If you buy the game you are not in danger of being 
 addicted, but if you are you can beat the game in 1 day. Enjoy he relaxed drive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jas0n3x
Rating: 7.9
Date: Feb 9, 2007 7:10 am PT
Review:  What starts in the city is settled in the canyons as Need for Speed Carbon immerses you into the 
 world's most dangerous and adrenaline-filled form of street racing. You and your crew must race 
 in an all-out war for the city, risking everything to take over your rivals' neighborhoods one 
 block at a time. As the police turn up the heat, the battle ultimately shifts to Carbon Canyon, 
 where territories and reputations can be lost on every perilous curve. Need for Speed Carbon delivers 
 the next generation of customization giving you the power to design and tweak your crew's cars 
 in every way using the ground-breaking new Autosculpt technology. Represent your car class, your 
 crew, and your turf in Need for Speed Carbon, the next revolution in racing games. Said Electronic 
 Arts ... Wanna know what I tjinl ... This game is a junk because there is nothing real to manu 
 visual effects and when you crash your car nothin' happins ... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: plinky
Rating: 3.3
Date: Feb 8, 2007 5:47 pm PT
Review:  The last good game to carry the NFS title was Porsche Unleashed. Then came the game consoles and 
 the game went to utter crap. I don't own this game, nor do I intend to purchase it. I was given 
 a copy of NFSMW as a Xmas gift and I played it for about 30 minutes before uninstalling it. Show 
 me a street legal Cobalt SS that can do nearly 200 mph on a city street and take no damage when 
 it careens into a water tower and then I will reassess the feasibility of this game. If you are 
 a true racing sim fan, save your money and download Live for Speed. It's worth it for the physics 
 and online community alone. I would recommend any of the Simbin games (GTR 1 &amp; 2, GTL) , but 
 the games lose their luster with the online problems. I gave good marks on NFSCs graphics and sounds, 
 but that does not make a good race sim in my opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: praharsh22
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 8, 2007 12:18 pm PT
Review:  After playing NFS: MW, which for me is the best NFS game, I had high expectations with this one 
 and I must say that it did NOT disappoint. The story is perfect. The graphics and the sound are 
 perfect. The canyon racing introduced in Carbon is great while the active crew member feature is 
 quite good though many times it leads to difficulty in racing... but I have to give EA the credit 
 for trying new things out. The cut scenes are great to watch... they sometimes become more interesting 
 than racing!!!. You just keep on waiting for the next one. The cars in the game are cool .. really 
 good looking. The exotic cars look awesome. One thing I would have wanted this game to have is 
 some sunshine... all takes place in the dark. I would recommend this game for all gamers. Overall 
 the game is awesome and the positives overpower the negatives of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DooM-ftw-
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 5, 2007 2:02 am PT
Review:  This game dosen't introduce anything new except the races with the bosses which are totaly boring 
 and stupid.
  NFS Carbon is very much like a combination between NFS Underground2
  and the highly addictive NFS Most Wanted.
  The game is very boring because after few hours you 
 get the feeling that you played it before .
  Unlike its predecessors this game isn't a great challenge, it is easy short and again very boring.
 
  Graphics and sound are good, very good, but graphics and sound are not a game is all about.
  The multiplayer is challenging like in any other racing game.
  Conclusion is that NFS Carbon 
 dosen't deserve the money...... you can buy NFS Most Wanted or GTR2 which are far more good than 
 Carbon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: apocmessiah
Rating: 5.9
Date: Feb 6, 2007 3:31 pm PT
Review:  Need for Speed has always been an enjoyable franchise that really pins down the arcade style of 
 racng games. The scenery is magnificant and the amount of customisation really adds to the body 
 of the game. The wingman feature of this game doesn't really work to well as they always seem to 
 get in the way by cutting off your racing line to the pont where in later levels it becomes virtually 
 unplayable. The territory stealing which is more reminiscent of strategy games works well in this 
 racer and gives more meat to the career mode. Cut scenes are excellent and graphics are of no disappointment 
 either. While not drastically different to the last few need for speed releases it uses the tried 
 and tested formula to aplomb giving a decent amount of playing time.
  However, as you get into the later levels you begin to realise that all the performance modifications 
 have litlle bearing on the success of your car and you mainly rely on luck that the next corner 
 doesnt have a car waiting to take you out of the race. In fact after about 10-15 hours of play 
 it quickly becomes boring and has little replay value. Earlier releases were not as bad as this 
 and this is mainly because increased difficulty brought about by interfering wingman and annoying 
 commuters being in the wrong place at the wrong time . Much of the skill is taken out of the game 
 and more of the repeat until you get lucky style of play is brought to the forefront... niot for 
 me thank you very much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BurnThisCity
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jan 27, 2007 4:37 pm PT
Review:  This latest member in the Need For Speed family can easily be compared to the row of Frankenstein 
 in the Human world. Carbon does not provide much what its older siblings did, and it seems very 
 much like it was quickly patched together. Hollowness is perhaps the ONE word the describe the 
 entire game.
  
  This game picks up right where you finished Most Wanted; and for some reason, your sworn enemy 
 (Cross) is still in town the lovely Mia is gone and is replaced by this new girl Nikki. The gameplay 
 lies very close to the previous title - the physics, the world-built, vehicle details, etc. A few 
 notable differences between this and MW include: The time setting is always at night, the way you 
 beat certain groups or players, the new installment of Canyon races, and what's missing now is 
 that when you use your NOS the graphics does not ZOOM in around you.
  
  The storyline is very one-dimensioned. You go into an area, you beat the boss, you conquer that 
 area, do that four times, you beat the game. It's as simple as that. There's not much in the story 
 either, which leaves you with no motivation to finish the game once you start to get bored with 
 the racing.
  
  Carbon is pretty much a clone version of the Tokyo Drift movie, and to me the people at EA were 
 trying WAY too hard to duplicate that movie into this game. Something just does not feel right 
 when you play the game. Mark my words on that.
  
  Although there is a HUGE number of cars you can unlock in this game, ranging from the muscle cars 
 (American) , exotic cars (mostly European) , or tuner cars (Imports) , most of the cars listed as 
 the official cars of this game are NOT unlocked in the career mode. So let's say you have about 
 34 cars to choose from in Most Wanted, in Carbon you can only choose from about 10 to 15 cars in 
 the career mode. Very disappointing for anyone who havn't bought the game thinking that they can 
 drive the Zonda in career mode. That is a misconception. : (
  
  What this game does pretty well, though, is the new Reward Cards system. Even if you have beaten 
 the Career mode, which takes about a weekend to beat if you're used to playing NFS games, there 
 are still the Quick Race mode and the Challenge Series mode to beat which, if you win, the victories 
 contribute a part in the Reward Cards system.
  
  All in all, for $40 this game is NOT WORTH IT AT ALL. This game looks too much like something that 
 EA just slapped together last minute for the release and it fails to provide what most players 
 would expect after playing the previous titles such as Underground 2 or Most Wanted. This might 
 as well be an expansion to Most Wanted since it is half as long as MW to begin with.
  
  Was it fun while it lasted? Not really, unless you have never played Most Wanted or are sick of 
 Most Wanted. Do you want to pay $40 for this game? DEFINITELY NOT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rajeshshyam
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 24, 2007 11:08 am PT
Review:  The game is quite good. It combines the plus points of both nfs undergroung 2 and nfs most wanted. 
 The whole idea of turf wars is superb. But still i prefer nfs mw to nfs carbon. The -ve pt is the 
 characters sometimes look sloppy
  
  The game relies on some pretty tried-and-true types of races, but it also throws some curves. You'll 
 find plenty of common stuff, such as lap-based circuit races, point-to-point sprints, and checkpoint 
 races. But there are also some unique races, such as the speed-trap race, where your standing is 
 determined by your cumulative MPH as you race through a series of speed traps. Most races take 
 place on the city streets of Palmont, but there are also drift events, which can take place either 
 on a closed racecourse or on the winding canyon roads that surround the city. The goal in the drift 
 events is to score points by making clean drifts around corners. The car-handling changes completely 
 for the drift events and feels much more slippery than in the rest of the game, which recalls the 
 drift events found in Need for Speed Underground 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AmarJ
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jan 23, 2007 9:51 pm PT
Review:  So.. here we have it, the 10 th installment in the NFS franchise, Need For Speed Carbon. Big deal, 
 it's nowhere close to it's predecessor's standards. Okay then, onto the story, we have the same 
 guy from MW and he is still being chased by Cross ( that idiotic cop from MW.. remember ?? ) .
 
  And at the end of the chase, he snatches ur awesome BMW and you have to pick a new ride. Welcome 
 back to your hometown, but well, you find that this place has turned into a battleground . Many 
 crews control the turfs of Palmont city, beat the races they control, and then u get a shot at 
 the boss, featuring a race through the turf he controls and another race in the canyons. Finally, 
 you confront Darius, the big boss ruling over Palmont. Beat him and then u get ur city back. Okay, 
 now moving onto things that are new in the franchise --&gt; CAR CLASSES
  -----------------------
  Basically, the cars are divided into 3 classes, Muscles, Tuners and Exotics.
 
  Muscles are speed demons. Awesome on accelerating but dumb on handling. This car class contains 
 loads of raw American muscles like CamaroSS, Shelby, Plymouth, Corvette, loads of Dodges etc. Next 
 the tuners, these cars are real smooth round the corners i. e. they are great on handling. This 
 class contain cars like Toyota Supra, Mitsubishi Lancer etc.
  Lastly the exotics, these are probably the most prefered class in Carbon, they have the highest 
 top-speed, they are good on acceleration ( but not as good as muscles) and have nice handling ( 
 though not as tuners ) . This class contains cars like Porsche Carrera GT, Lamborghini Gallardo, 
 Alfa-Romeo Brera etc. WINGMAN
  ----------------
  In your quest to get back ur territory, EA believed that we might need wingmen while racing, but 
 I don't think so. The wingmen are divided into 3 classes, Scouts, Blockers and Drafters. Scouts 
 look out for shortcuts during races, well.. in MW, one look at the mini-map gave us a hint of a 
 shortcut, but the mini-map in Carbon doesn't show anything else save the race course. Hence, come 
 the scouts to show us shortcuts. Ain't that stupid enough? Scouts also destroy the fun of finding 
 shortcuts of own ability. Next, the Drafters, these guys try to speed you up. While drafting, you 
 gain tremendous speed. Ok, sounds good, but wait, the game doesn't even contain tracks good enough 
 to use them efficiently ! i. e. only one crew controls the turf that contains nice, straight tracks 
 and good for drafting, else the remaining 3 turfs contain loads of turns which means loads of bumps 
 with ur drafter. Finally, the Blockers, these guys throw themselves around to block ur opponents. 
 Somewhat useful, but not really great. So, all in all the wingmen are not really a great addition 
 to the series. Racing's better without them. AUTOSCULPT
  ----------------------
  This is a cool new feature to make ur rides look cooler. With autosculpt u can stretch, bend, shorten, 
 expand loads of the car's body parts. And this is something positive about this game. CANYON RACING
 
  --------------------------
  Carbon features a new style of racing. The career contains only 4 canyon races. These are boss 
 fights. But what EA had promised doesn't come true.. These races are not as exciting as everyone 
 had expected them to be. These are two part races based on ponit system, and falling off the canyons 
 means end. Now then, moving onto other features of the game. POLICE
  -------------
  The cops are present here too, but for whatever reason , maybe god knows or EA... There is no point 
 of a pursuit, so u never need to get into a pursuit save the fact that u are looking for trouble. 
 GRAPHICS
  -----------------
  Graphically speaking, the game looks splendid. The night sky looks awesome, the lights feel eletric 
 and the fog looks misty. This, probably, is the only factor in which Carbon beats Most-Wanted. 
 SOUND
  --------------
  This is one part of the game you are going to hate. There are 30+ EA trax, but hell, u can't listen 
 to them. The game has trax of it's own. The tracks that the game privides you are nice but hearing 
 them one too many times gets boring. U can only hear EA trax during checkpoint races or in the 
 free-roam mode. Since, u never need free-roam ( the game allows u to jump anywhere u want to go 
 ) and there aren't many checkpoint races too, so u seldom get to hear those awesome tracks. DRIFTS 
 ARE BACK !!
  -------------------------------
  Oh yeah !! The drifts from Underground series are back. But it's been tweaked up nicely making 
 them more fun than ever before. Now then, moving onto other features save the career.. CHALLENGE 
 SERIES
  ----------------------------------
  The challenge series in Carbon contains loads of races of different categories and a few pursuits 
 too. Beating a 3 series challenge awards u something or the other in the career or the quick race 
 mode. ONLINE GAMEPLAY
  --------------------------------
  The online gameplay provides loads of fun. Featured new races are Pursuit knockouts in which the 
 guys knocked out become the cops and are given the chance to run the other guys running for the 
 win. So, all in all, Carbon is quite a dissapointment in comparison with MW. But, anyways, every 
 cloud has a silver lining. Despite all the flaws, there are a few things that the game is awesome 
 at. Give it a shot, it's worth a few hours of enjoyment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: overhang
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jan 23, 2007 6:28 am PT
Review:  Every Need for Speed release brings a great expectation for me. Some times the first impression 
 isn't that great but after some time of playing the game shows up its qualities (that happened 
 with Most Wanted) .
  Unfortunately that didn't happen with NFS Carbon. My first impression was bad and after app.40 
 hours of playing (to get a solid base to evaluate it) I can say I'm really disappointed with this 
 release.
  The worst attribute is the gameplay. The game is too easy. There are maybe 6 or 7 races in the 
 entire game you have to play again to win!!! All the rest is just race and win! (Far away from 
 the first Underground, f. e..) . At least they removed the rubber band effect.
  Some good aspects of Carbons gameplay are the return of the drift mode (Canyon drift is great) 
 and the Canyon races (Boss races) - great idea!!!
  The crew mechanics is worthless at all.
  Police chases are there just as an append. It has almost no impact in the career mode.
  The graphics 
 are the other bad attribute of Carbon. Nowadays it's waited that every new release in a series 
 will look better than the last one. What happened to NFS Carbon? The whole game world looks dead 
 like a theatrical scenery.
  All that makes me miss the older NFS releases. Since Porsche Unleashed I have all of them still 
 installed in my PC. Carbon will be the first one I'll uninstall after some careers...
  
  If that's the result of the pressure for one release per year, I'll gladly wait 18 months for the 
 next one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimboryno
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 22, 2007 11:56 pm PT
Review:  After becoming the Most Wanted Street Racer in Rockport, we fleed from the Police and we now head 
 for Palmont City were a whole new challenge awaits.
  
  Arriving in Palmont City we find out that everything has changed. From the way the races work to 
 the fact that we can now actually have crew members to help us out while racing.
  
  At first glimpse we find that the graphics in this game has not improved to significantly, rather 
 stayed the same as Most Wanted. The detail on the cars might have improved a little bit, but otherwise 
 it's still the Need for Speed we've come to know when Most Wanted was released. The game follows 
 a whole new storyline and we have to fight for territory. After which you take on the big boss 
 in the beautiful canyons...
  
  The game starts of pretty easy but gets more difficult as one make progress up the ladder. The 
 one I missed in Most Wanted was drifting, and I was so delighted when I saw that drifting was back. 
 Drifting hasn't changed much since Underground 2, but of course the new graphical effects make 
 the experience so much better.
  
  This game is definitely worth playing as it takes street racing to a different level. Just don't 
 get to carried away as it can become extremely addictive. Specially when you start winning races. 
 The urge to beat the game as soon as possible is always an cause of this addiction. Some people 
 might be able to handle it, but for others it might just cause a drop in concentration...
  
  Carbon after all is a new game, so why not go and buy it... It's certainly worth buying and 
 adding to ones Need For Speed Collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cyborg-21
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 19, 2007 11:04 pm PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY - The gameplay is fairly similar to Most Wanted. The races are the same but in different 
 locations. All the usual race modes are availiable. The big addition is the Canyon Races. These 
 are thrilling to say the least, and they are also challenging. The cop chases are as good as ever.
 
  
  GRAPHICS: Graphics are good on a high end PC. If you have a high end Shader Model 3 GPU or a G80, 
 look forward to great visuals with full motion blur. Although the graphics are not the best, they 
 are still good.
  
  SOUND: The sound is excellent. The ambient noises of the cars are really well done, and this is 
 backed up by a good music collection.
  
  VALUE: The single player is long. You can choose up to 3 car classes, and since all of them offer 
 different gameplay dynamics, you have a great replay value on the campaign. The multiplayer is 
 really enhanced by the cop chases, and it remains excellent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andilosha
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 14, 2007 8:17 am PT
Review:  Need for Speed Carbon is definietly the best Street Racing Game I've ever experienced. It's obvious 
 that it's story is the continuing of NFS Most Wanted since Carbon starts with a scene where you're 
 followed by Cross (the chevrolet corvette ugly cop at Most Wanted) and you total your M5 (the car 
 you get from Razor) and so on. Anyway the story of Carbon is noticeably influenced by territory 
 wars. You start with some Tier 1 cars costing 20' 000 cash and you can go as far as Tier 3 super 
 vehicles like SLR or Carrera GT that value 216'000 cash. There are 4 territories in total. Every 
 territory has some zones, any zone can have 2-4 races. As soon as you win most of the races at 
 a zone, it becomes your's. When you win all the zones in a territory you gat challenged by the 
 boss in a normal race and then in a canyon duel. When you win the first three territories, the 
 Bosses join Darius crew and you'll have to defeat them again before challenging Darius. Also I 
 like the crew idea. When you defeat a boss someone from his crew joins your's. You can bring a 
 crew member to a race of your's and if you or your crew member wins the race is considered won. 
 Crew members might be scouts (find the shortest way) , blockers (who block your opponents way so 
 you can pass ahead) and drafters (who reduce the air friction ahead of you as you follow them so 
 you can gain speed) . Race types are the normal ones: Drifts, Circuits, Sprints, Checkpoints, Speedtraps, 
 and Canyon duels. It doesn't have any milestones or drags, street X races and the cops aren't very 
 bothering. It's fairly shorter than MW or U2 but carbon has the best graphics and city so far. 
 So if you'r searching for a racing game I think carbon is one of the best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nieblue06
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 13, 2007 4:25 am PT
Review:  I was excited when I heard about this game, but after playing it I am quite disappointed. What 
 is the deal with taking out good things in the past games that worked. This is a bad way to try 
 and top Underground 2 and Most Wanted. Other than the new wingman option and the auto-sculpting 
 it was not all that cool. The whole object to win territory by winning races and beating bosses ( 
 Which i must say was extremely easy) . I DID THIS IN TWO DAYS!!! You also don't get any off the 
 good cars till your almost finished with the game. Unlike most Wanted the challenges are not integrated 
 with the career portion of the game as much. You do not have to pass certain challenges to get 
 to a boss and move on to the next level. All challenges do is unlock items that can be used in 
 career mode and trust me other than the Jaguar 2007 which is what I beat the game with there is 
 not much more items rewarding than that. That add-on is what made Most Wanted fun... Why should 
 I even miss with the challenges if it does not do any good for me in my career mode, and who cares 
 about reward cards unless it is going to get me to the next boss. Cops... what a joke no need to 
 cause damage, create huge pursuits, destroy them, if it isn't going to help your career. What happened 
 to all the upgrades and neon lights speaker you could add to your car? That was cool!!! I guess 
 people don't think that way anymore because it was not in Carbon. Well overall the Graphics kicked 
 butt, the Audio was nice, but the game play quick simple , easy, fun , but wish I wish there was 
 more to it. Come on EA Give us Most Wanted Mixed with Underground 2, and Carbon all together in 
 one pot that would be kick #$$!!!! Till next time 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dragon1057
Rating: 4.7
Date: Jan 11, 2007 10:22 am PT
Review:  There is some good to be had. The number of cars. Lots and lots of cars. Tuners, Exotics and at 
 last Muscle cars, although the Muscle car models might as well be shopping trolleys with jet engines 
 strapped to them, then they would look the same as they handle at least.
  
  New race modes, usually a good thing but I'm still not sold on the whole canyon thing. If the AI 
 cars were subject to the same physics limitations as your own car then maybe this aspect of the 
 game would play out in the way EA intended, but as it is it's just a huge and mostly frustrating 
 disappointment.
  
  Drag races are no more and there is still no sign of Street X or Outruns (my personal favourite 
 for online fun) . We do see the return of a spontaneous race mode you can trigger while in free 
 roam, but ultimately it amounts to nothing more than a sprint race but with no restrictions on 
 the route you take.
  
  The graphics are not bad but then again they're not brilliant. The car models are great but the 
 truly dazzling reflections and highlights on them make it look like the streets are lit by WWII 
 searchlights. Crazy.
  
  The car handling leaves a lot to be desired and imo is far behind the fantastic and truly risky 
 handling of NFSU or NFSU2. In all the time I played the game I really don't remember spinning out 
 when trying to corner to quickly unless the tank like AI cars were shunting my back end round, 
 which is a common occurence. Shame you can't return the favour due to the dodgy AI car phycis, 
 or should I say non-existent AI car physics. Yes, I'm afraid that's right. The AI cars are glued 
 to the road and any contact between your car and the AI cars WILL see you coming off worse regardless 
 of the circumstances. The AI drivers also have 2 pairs of eyes as they are somehow able to navigate 
 the road ahead at tremendous speeds and yet also know the nano-second your car drifts into position 
 behind them at which point they slam on, you hit them and are stopped all but dead while they peel 
 away as if they hadn't slowed at all. Do EA really believe these kidn of lame gameplay mechanics 
 will hold up for anybody but the most devoted fanboy?
  
  Bottom line on the gameplay in my experience is this. AI cars glued to the road, move at tremendous 
 speed, almost always take off faster than yours even if you manage a perfect launch , act like 
 mobile brick walls should your car come into contact with them, will shunt, spin and block you 
 without suffering any kind of speed penalty themselves and are generally frustrating and unrealistic. 
 Having said all that the game isn't particularly difficult although races are boring and extremely 
 predictable. Take off, squeeze into first place, have the AI up your arse for 95% of the race, 
 cross the finish line with no more than a second or two between you and the 2nd place AI car. Zzzzzzzzzzzzzzzz.
 
  
  Oh yeah, before I forget, it runs like a bag of crap too, even on my 3800 64, 2GB DDR400, 7950GX2. 
 Leave this one on the shelves in my opinion. Maybe pick it up when it's under a tenner if you absolutely 
 must complete your NFS collection.
  
  Final word to EA: Forget the bs fake attitude presentation and give priority to the gameplay for 
 the next one, you might find people like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ballroomwest
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 11, 2007 1:02 am PT
Review:  Another fine and improved addition to the Need for Speed franchise.
  
  This is a rather detailed review more geared towards hardcore fans.
  It also goes into features 
 that I would have liked in the game, or future games in the series.
  
  The Good:
  
  Great presentation. Super music (as always) . Cutting edge graphics.
  Incredible sense of speed, 
 especially once you've upgraded your car near to Maximum.
  There's New race types. One of the great improvements over the prequels is that now you can race
 
  against a decent number of cars instead of the rather boring 4 . FOUR??
  Well now, we have twelve opponents to race against, in RaceWars races for example (and thats not 
 including the player) or eight opponents in most other race types. Thats a great improvement, and 
 adds to the suspense and action.
  After races, the other drivers keep on racing at speed through the course,
  which is a nice touch, 
 and if you go along with them it can help loose the
  police as theres more chance of them hitting someone.
  On top of that, theres even more police 
 than Most Wanted at times! Its not uncommon to have over 20+ cars on the road at once.
  
  I have read reviews by some people (including Gamespot) who have said theres little or not enough 
 cop action. I can only conclude that they were in a rush and havent played it enough. There's more 
 than enough. Especially in the later stages where the heat (cop heat) gets more and more prevalent.
 
  The city is huge. Divided into four main segments, each almost a city in itself.
  Then theres the breathtakingly high Carbon mountains that over look the city
  at death defying 
 heights. The action is relentless.
  The A. I. is great (most the time) . I like the way rival crew drivers come up to
  you and either 
 swerve in your way or nearby, or just outright cut-you-up and
  hit you in order to get your attention and challenge you to a race.
  Racing with crew members 
 is a great feature, and as far as i know, an
  original feature not found in other racers. What they say is very believable,
  funny and often 
 useful. Then of course theres the occasional over the top
  American uuuuuultra enthusiastic type comments, but its all in good fun.
  Neville is an adorable 
 character.
  Your crew mates can either block other cars (blockers) , hunt down shortcuts and help lead the way 
 (Scouts) , or generate a slipstream in front of your car to give you a considerable speed boost 
 (Drafters) ...... you can even Boost with your NOS and they will also go faster in tandem with you. 
 This can be helpful or sometimes a hindrance because going around sharp corners while in their 
 slipstream (and staying in it) is tricky, depends on your speed and handling of the car.
  
  Lots of destructibles, and hittables as per MOST WANTED. I think theres more Pursuit Breakers in 
 Carbon if anything. PALMOUNT CITY has many windy turny roads, and not much freeway, whereas ROCKPORT 
 had an incredible amount of very long Freeways.
  
  THE BAD (and wishlist of future features) : My few little gripes with this game are these:
  
 
  The look back function, which to me is essential for this game, isn't user redefinable like previous 
 games. (I'm certain this is an oversight not intentional - perhaps a future patch can fix this)
 
  The 'L' key (look back) is so far from my accelerate key (A) and is very awkward!!!
  You do get a rear view mirror, but it doesnt compare to being able to look back at full screen 
 view.
  Also the rearview mirror doesnt have an on/off realtime button like other games. Backspace used 
 to do that in the other games.
  
  As always the music tracks are very good, but why have they suddenly taken out the familiar track 
 list that tells you the current song and artist during racing or free roaming??
  I like to familiarize myself with the artists and their tracks as the musics always such high calibre.
 
  Theres no user MP3 player which is always a nice option. (Midnight Club has that) . But I guess 
 you could run your own in the background and turn the game music down to zero.
  
  The storyline is rather confusing at best. Especially as its told from about 5 different peoples 
 perspectives. I cant tell if they are talking about the
  end of MOST WANTED or just some random story that happened in the city earlier.
  Policemen zapping 
 cars with lazer guns, then some bag getting swapped?? Money??? What money? Whos money?? etc etc.
 
  
  Also the acting is questionable and not especially good when you consider the large budget for 
 a game like this.
  Sgt. Cross is good. Nicky's ok. Nevilles just funny. But LOSE everyone else pleeeeease! *cough*Colin+Samson*cough*
 
  
  Sometimes the races where you have a scout crew member helping you are a little too easy, because 
 they are basically out in front winning the race for you half the time - even if you're back in 
 eight position!
  
  Another small gripe is about the driver models in the cars. Especially your own. Given the incredible 
 detail put into your car's shiny finish and its reflections etc, why oh why is there a stiff looking 
 man of plastic that doesnt move for your driver???
  Its absurd really in a game of this quality! Even Need for Speed Hot pursuit,
  now five years 
 old, had some basic driver animation!
  Nothing fancy, one should at least see him turn the wheel,
  or look backwards when reversing 
 etc.
  
  Another nice addition would have been a realtime day/night cycle. MOST WANTED was set very sunny 
 daytime weather. Occasional showers.
  And CARBON is all at night, ( like NFSU 1 + 2. )
  Why not have real time weather and day/night cycles like GTA does?
  
  I am hoping they will 
 implement some of these ideas for the next Need for Speed - which will presumably be running on 
 Direct x10 and Windows Vista. (-the future of next generation gaming.... bye bye consoles!!)
  
  Theres still so much more they could do, especially with physics.
  
  There could be more 
 physical damage to the cars, instead of just
  paint scrapes,- they could be damaged to the point where it begins to affect
  the cars performance, 
 that way races wouldnt get to easy and you would have to be more careful about crashing.
  
  Another nice feature would be for the roadlights, signs, logs, bus stops, cones etc, that get scattered 
 all over the place should STAY THERE for the whole race duration, so that the next lap has more 
 hazards and is less predictable.
  Perhaps all this is too much 'next generation' and we have to wait for Quad Core processors to 
 become the norm. (see ALAN WAKE. COM )
  
  Max resolution of 1600*1200 is a bit disappointing. They could have improved that, its now 4 games 
 into the series on this engine.
  Most 19 or 21inch's can goto 1920*1440 and beyond. I play most my games at 2048*1536 wherever possible. 
 But in racing games of this speed, ultra high resolutions would start to take a toll on the frame 
 rate. On more powerful future operating systems, quad-core processors and graphics cards that problem 
 will disappear rapidly.
  
  Another thing thats missing is the look left and right functions.
  Occasionally I would like 
 to use this in NFSU 1 when a car is racing
  neck-and-neck with you. Or just to see a side-on view of a street or poster.
  
  A nice feature 
 would be to have a mouseview button, whereby you hold down a key of your choice and use the mouse 
 to look around at any angle like a first person shooter.
  It seems a bit tragic having those amazing city vista's up in the mountains but not being able 
 to see them properly!
  Yes.... i know its a RACING game not a sightseeing game, but still. Those kinds of touches add to 
 ambience and atmosphere. For me, Need For Speed Underground 2, has the best atmosphere (+music) 
 of all the titles so far, and also the most distinctive and memorable layout of the city. I just 
 get lost in MOST WANTED and CARBON cities, the landmarks arent as distinctive.
  Theres just a certain something about Underground 2 that strikes an atmospheric cord (chord? I'm 
 a musician) with me.
  
  Lastly and this is a big technical gripe is that the game randomly cuts out to windows once or 
 twice in a gaming session, ive tried it on several different machines too. -Make sure that autosave 
 is enabled!
  
  So as for the next NFS game.......
  ... heres hoping they create a brand new powerful and physics-intensive engine instead of just tweaking 
 the existing one like they have with the last four NFS titles!! Although its a good and fast engine, 
 its starting to get a bit old and limited!
  The crew racing makes up for it though. Great idea.
  
  I give this game a well deserved 9.2! 
 Gamespot is far too stingy with 7.6!
  It would have gave it a perfect ten if not for those little gripes and missing things.
  
  All 
 in all NFS: CARBON is a superb racing game with attitude that you cant afford to miss, whether you're 
 a NFS veteran or newbie !!
  
  I heartily look forward to the next outing!!
  
  Any comments/game ideas/ email me thebathroom@graffiti. net 
  or reply on here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: garvey3757
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 9, 2007 11:22 am PT
Review:  Got to say that this is another great carry on from the previous versions of Need for Speed. Graphics 
 are out of this world.
  There is as usual a type of storyline behind the game, again your an up and coming street racer 
 who has had to start from the beginning again.
  Even if the way the cars are driven doesn't feel like the true way a car reacts it does not spoil 
 the game, in fact it makes a little easier to control and allows you to come up with some nice 
 high speed stunts.
  I do love the fact that you have gang members that join forces with you and help you during races, 
 even if they do get in the way some times.
  Definately a big thumbs up from me 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryan4u
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 7, 2007 10:29 pm PT
Review:  For the past couple of years EA has teased us with great ideas for street racing, Need for Speed: 
 Underground was a hit title, Underground 2 was sort of a bust and Most Wanted, released late last 
 year was another crest in the ongoing wave of ups and downs for EA. Could EA keep this franchise 
 above water this time around? Or will the disappointing pattern continue with the ongoing controversy 
 in-game ads? NFS: Carbon is actually a sequel to the previous racing release Most Wanted. Your 
 nameless character, who escaped by a hair from the police in the previous game, has left Rockport 
 and fled to a new city Palmont along with a few other friends you had previously encountered. One 
 person who is not happy with you is the beautiful Emmanuelle Vaugier, who believes you stole a 
 bag from her at the end of the first game. Over time you piece together information that leads 
 to the true answer of what really happened the last night you were in Rockport. Your character 
 engages in a short pursuit from Cross, the Sergeant from the previous game who is now a bounty 
 hunter, which results in you crash your beloved M3. This forces your character to start from scratch 
 by buying a stock car to race, earn money to upgrade the performance of your car and regain your 
 street rep back in Palmont. Gameplay: The races have the same basic format as in past games. Back 
 by popular demand are the drifting races that made its first appearance in NFS: Underground 2. 
 This gives drivers the opportunity to gain points by skidding around corners, the faster you skid, 
 the more points you receive. It is strange they needed to change the friction of the surface from 
 the normal settings to a surface that feels like you are driving on ice. In fact you cannot even 
 turn without immediately drifting. I find this to be a cop-out for the intended theme of the game. 
 They give you dozens of options to change certain performance features of your car for exactly 
 this kind of change in driving style and conditions. Why not just make you change your customizable 
 tire settings instead of altering the physics? This would have given the game more depth and forced 
 a longer playtime. More common race modes include the standard circuit race which is two laps through 
 the streets mapped by transparent walls with giant arrows so you do not accidentally take a wrong 
 turn, and a sprint race which is just who gets to a certain point the fastest. There is also a 
 checkpoint race which is a solo race giving you a certain amount of time to reach a checkpoint 
 on the map. If you do not get to the checkpoint within the given time period, you lose the race. 
 The final race mode is the speed trap mode which puts you up against other drivers and you must 
 travel through several sections of the race that clock your speed. At the end of the race, the 
 winner is the driver who has achieved the highest miles per hour rate. There are also two new additional 
 race modes added to Carbon. The first relates back to the film Fast and the Furious called Race 
 Wars mode. You can only challenge Race Wars after you have completely taken over a territory and 
 essentially is just an extra long circuit race with double the usual drivers. The second newly 
 added mode involves racing bosses and has turned a single race event into a potential three-part 
 race. The first part is a 1 on 1 race against the boss on a circuit course. If you win, you advance 
 to the Canyon races. During the Canyon races you must follow your opponent as close as possible 
 upon which your opponent will do the same to you in part 3 of the race. The winner will be the 
 driver who has the closest average distance during the duration of the race. If you or your opponent 
 happens to take a wide turn and drives off the edge of the Canyon, the race is over (and so should 
 be your life) . You can however win both parts to the race if you happen to pass your opponent for 
 10 seconds. You will also win the pink slip to your opponent's car. This is an incredibly frustrating 
 but interesting challenge that adds something new to the flavor of underground racing. To go along 
 with the new race modes, there is also a new crew addition to your in game racing. You have the 
 option to hire and fire several different racers who want to see you succeed in earning your rep 
 back. Each racer has an advantage that may give you the edge to win a specific race. You can only 
 have one of your crewmembers race with you, but there are three different styles of crewmembers 
 you can hire: a scout, blocker and drifter. The scout will actually drive a head of you, letting 
 you know who is trying to pass you or call out short cuts in alleys, parks, and tunnels ahead of 
 time for you to prepare for them. The blocker will cut another racer off in mid race allowing you 
 to pass and the drifter's job is to drive directly in front of you, blocking the wind resistance 
 and allowing you to reach speeds up to 170mph! The crewmember feature makes racing a hellava lot 
 more fun and interesting. After EA released a statement about in-game ads in their recent and widely 
 popular Battlefield 2142 release, EA also announced there would be in-game ads in Carbon. It is 
 strange that EA would want or need more ads in a game that is chock full of them already; there 
 are dozens of car manufacturers on show, as well as performance upgrades and wheel brands. The 
 Police are still trying to track you down as they get reports of street racing or reckless driving, 
 but it appears they have fewer cops in Palmont. The flipside of less cops means they are much harder 
 to shake when in a pursuit. The Police AI is relentless; even while traveling at speeds over 150mph 
 they are right on your tail. This is where the course obstacles come in handy allowing you to knock 
 over water towers, giant doughnut signs and other large objects causing debris to fall on top of 
 the police, blocking them and allowing you to escape. Some pursuits could last over 15 minutes 
 and escaping only by accident because the AI is not exactly the sharpest in the gaming world. It 
 is obvious the Police rely on line of sight when tracking you down. Hiding in an alley will cause 
 the police to pace back and forth on the same street because the AI knows you are in the area, 
 but since they cannot directly see you, it allows your cool down meter to reach normal levels. 
 The ruthless police determination is an annoyance in the game and sometimes gives you the idea 
 that they never wanted you to be able to escape in the first place. Graphics and Sound: Using the 
 same engine as Most Wanted, graphically Carbon will not blow your mind, but it still will be very 
 pleasing to the eye. You will find that Palmont looks almost exactly Rockport. The streets are 
 not quite the same, but most of the building models have been reused to cut down on production 
 costs. Since you are in a different city the bigger structures have been replaced with more original 
 content, for example the stadium and the prison are not available to drive through anymore but 
 other areas such as luxury homes and industrial districts are newly designed and look very good. 
 You will also notice that the entire game takes place at night. No daytime occurs during NFS: Carbon 
 providing a dark and rebellious feel that fits the title. The same blurriness of traveling fast 
 is back in addition to knocking into parking meters, mail boxes, signs, bus stops and other breakable 
 street-side objects. The soundtrack seems half finished, filled with cut down techno music that 
 seems like a 30 second section was simply thrown on repeat for a 4-8 min race. At other times instrumentals 
 of popular songs play. It is a wonder why EA still does not allow you to import your own MP3s. 
 Probably because the music houses are sponsoring the game with the rest of the in-game ads including 
 Progressive Auto Insurance plastered on several in- game vans. What is that beeping? It is your 
 T-Mobile Cell Phone. Is EA trying to break even before the game is even released? Multiplayer: 
 Addressing one of my complaints of Most Wanted, Carbon offers a much more appealing online gameplay 
 with up to 8 players, which is a considerable upgrade from 4 in Most Wanted. You also have the 
 option of playing cop during multiplayer mode, which was an option, unavailable in Most Wanted. 
 Pros: Cool new Crew Member feature, challenging new Canyon Races, Smooth and easy adapted gameplay, 
 eye-pleasing graphics, Cons: Several crashes during gameplay, more ads from EA, relatively easy, 
 aggressive police but pursuits are rare and very avoidable, no widescreen option Bottom Line: It 
 is possible to complete Need for Speed: Carbon in less than 10 hours of play, but unlocking every 
 car and every feature in the game could put the total play time above 20. Carbon introduces one 
 or two fresh elements in the Need for Speed series, which makes the game worth playing, but if 
 a little more time were spent on integrating the these features with the new story and more races, 
 the Carbon spark would be a lot brighter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Turbopowered007
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 4, 2007 10:19 am PT
Review:  Need for Speed Carbon isn't all that bad, the drifting is excellent ( though for a beginner it 
 takes time to learn) , the cars look good especially with the new kinds of paints you get in the 
 game and the canyon duels are fairly challenging.
  
  The game does have its downfalls, drag racing has been left out, the storyline is average and the 
 game itself is quite short. The crew members most of the time gets in your way, and the cop chases 
 are pointless. Fans of the game NFS Underground 2 will enjoy this game since there are more modifications 
 to the cars, and more night racing. Also the rival crew challenges are there and the cars sound 
 really good.
  
  Those who prefer realistic gaming wont find much in the game, and might think this game only for 
 kids. However those who simply love the need for speed series might take a liking to the game.
 
  
  The storyline of the game could improve ( for example the BMW GTR could have been totaled other 
 than hitting a pursuit breaker since you have been hitting thousands of them in most wanted) , and 
 they could have added better music in place of some of the hip-hop mixes. In general the game isnt 
 too bad and does deliver what it promises fast cars, cool customizations, excellent drifting, challenging 
 canyon duels and canyon drifting. So unless youre someone who loves realistic games, this game 
 is worthwhile playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IDont-Give-Damn
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 3, 2007 8:31 am PT
Review:  Need for Speed Carbon Its another Need for Speed its mixed by UnderGrounds and Mostwanted.
  im finished All need for speeds games.
  and Need for Speed Carbon its a Very CoOl for Drifting.
 
  and im 1 of the best Drifters in the World (Drift King) LOL.
  If you like Drift im not sure about that but Need for Speed Carbon its very cool for Drifting.
 
  its like The Fast and The Furious: Tokyo Drift.
  Then if you like Drift or The Fast and The Furious: Tokyo Drift if you dont buy it go and buy it 
 its very good.
  (its one of the best Need for Speed's game's) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deepak_ku555
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 3, 2007 6:30 am PT
Review:  The game starts off really well and the animation is done very beautifully!! But, as the game continues, 
 the player will see the same incident happening again &amp; again (in different people's perspectives) , 
 which bores the player.
  
  The graphics have been handled really well, the game-play too is really smooth when compared to 
 the Most Wanted. The controls of the cars are also smooth than the previous NFS series. The main 
 thing lacking in the Carbon is the Drag race which I missed a lot and the plus point of the game 
 is the Canyon racing, which is unique amongst all the other races and one will really enjoy the 
 thrill while playing it!!
  
  The thrill of the game does not stay for a long time as the storyline or the game play is short! 
 Anyone who has played the Most Wanted can finish the game in a single day!
  
  Overall, the game is really enjoying and the thrills which NFS delivers is maintained in this series 
 too!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iciris
Rating: 6.9
Date: Jan 2, 2007 5:41 pm PT
Review:  Another Need for Speed, that brings it to one a year for the last four years. Each time they took 
 a step forward, however this year I think they took a step back.
  
  The graphics were OK, however I was expecting it to be better then Most Wanted and I was disappointed, 
 the graphics in Most Wanted surpassed that of Carbon. The reflection effects were good, however 
 it just didn't have the crisp imaging that I was expecting from a new generation game.
  
  The audio like just about every game was top notch. They had good car sounds, however a lot of 
 them were just brought over from the other games. I noticed that a few of the Muscle cars had the 
 same sound as the GTO from Underground 2. Thought you could pull a quick one over on us did you 
 EA?
  
  Game play was pretty straight forward. I was happy to see that Drifting was brought back, however 
 I felt that it was a little silly and unrealistic. Sure I was able to master it but it was more 
 like an arcade game than a racing simulator or even just a racing game. It felt like what a drifting 
 game was like back in the days of Need for Speed 3. Again taking a step back on this game. They 
 also added a new thing of being able to have a sidekick, a person that either blocks, scouts, or 
 is a drafter. I found that these people cause more problems then they fixed, in races they would 
 do their best to get in front of the pack even passing you, and when they do they will slow down 
 and 8 times out of 10 they would get in your way and cause you to crash.
  
  One big thing was the time it took to beet this game. To go from beginning to end only took me 
 10 hours, as apposed to Most Wanted which took me around the 20 hour mark, however for the same 
 amount of game play they charged the same amount.
  
  Modifications were back a little more, I miss the amount of modifying that you could do in Underground 
 2 however at least we got some of it back as apposed to the minuscule amount in Most Wanted. The 
 Chop Shop was a nice new feature that we have not seen before, allowing you to customize some of 
 the dimensions of body kits as well as the body of the car.
  
  I have always been a big fan of Need for Speed, I have hosted many fan sites starting back with 
 Underground and my Underground 2 fan site for the longest time was the first one that popped up 
 when you searched on Google for Underground 2. I am not one to knock the series but this one stunk 
 overall. They still don't have the tuning that I have been looking for, they did a better job with 
 Underground 2. In my eyes if EA wanted to make the ultimate Need For Speed they need to take elements 
 out of the games. Here is my list:
  
  Drifting from Underground 2
  Tuning from Underground 2
  Car Selection from Carbon
  Graphics from Most Wanted
  Map Size 
 from Carbon (If not bigger)
  
  There are also some things that I would like to see put into the next one:
  Realistic sounds 
 for when you upgrade your engine
  More then one city if possible
  Being able to drive between Cities
  Even more of a car selection
  
  I think that most people 
 would have to agree with me on these things.
  
  One big big problem I have run into is getting the game to run PERIOD. As some people know I have 
 switched over to Windows Vista, this causes a problem because Carbon has compatibility issues with 
 Vista. There are work arounds that can get the game running a little bit. I have tried my best 
 and none of them have worked well enough for me to get into a race. According to a post on Wikipedia 
 you are able to get Carbon running by Renaming the Videos folder so that they can not load, this 
 means that if you can get it going then you will not have any videos, however I still cant get 
 it much passed the loading screen. My game goes into the main menu and freezes my system completely 
 I am forced to do a cold restart. What I am trying to get at is EA should have made the game Vista 
 compatible when the game was released so close to the Vista launch. Need for Speed Most Wanted 
 runs fine, which is a complete stunner for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: squal_117
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 29, 2006 5:51 am PT
Review:  Graphic improvements are really great as long as your video card supports it, Playing the game 
 with low graphic detail will take most of it's charm.
  The has much more customization options for those who love to get the most good-looking car, Races 
 are as great as always, the shortcuts are real shortcuts narrow hidden paths you must pay attention 
 to not miss.
  The soundtrack is the same of Most Wanted except for maybe a couple of songs but that does not 
 make it bad, in fact it's a great soundtrack mostly Hip-Hop, Electronic Music and Rock that adds 
 greatly to the racing environment. Which is again based on a night of of races.
  Another features that adds great is that now you're not just a race winner, now you have to own 
 the city, and how do you achieve this? Racing!
  However facing bosses is not one of the best features of the game, it can be pretty tiring to race 
 against him three times (two if you'r fast enough)
  At last the game has one of the greatest add-ons ever seeing in a race game is that you can get 
 some help from companions which are computer controlled characters divided into blockers, that 
 will get your opponents out of race, drafters, that let you drive behind allowing you some extra 
 speed by cutting through the wind for you and finally scouts, which are always looking for shortcuts 
 so you can take advantage on your opponents 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andrew_ribbons
Rating: 7.9
Date: Dec 27, 2006 5:48 pm PT
Review:  First off, i want to get this covered, over and done with: NFS Most Wanted was a pile of ****. 
 Designed to appeal to chavs and morons with its spray paint and graffiti skins as well as screaming, 
 shouting and bashing. No interest to me whatsoever and many of my friends felt this too.
  
  They have thoroughly reclaimed my faith in them with Carbon. It brings back the essence of the 
 good days of Need for Speed, like Underground and Underground 2, while adding some fun and interesting 
 new features. I cannot believe some people on Gamespot reviewed this game as having and i quote 
 Oldschool graphics from 10 years back !?!?! 10 years ago was 1997 my friends. We weren't even blessed 
 with NFS 3 back then, which was a DirectX 6 game! Most racing games were 32bit and barely 3D. Carbon 
 has fantastic visuals and trim car models as well as all the speed bluring you could ever want. 
 The sound is also very good. The wingman radio contact is a good addition, but could grate your 
 nerves after a few hours of playing, i can see that.
  
  Overall, a large leap back in the right direction for the NFS crew. Overall, a great game and i 
 worth my money! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lukeriela
Rating: 7.9
Date: Dec 31, 2006 11:52 pm PT
Review:  After the release of The Fast and the Furious: Tokyo Drift, EA announced Need for Speed Carbon, 
 a game that would capture the thrill of drifting and speeding down narrow canyon roads. Fortunately, 
 they succeeded in offering this experience, but other additions fail to improve upon the series. 
 The game was rid of all day time races and the intense drag mode was thrown out as well. In an 
 attempt to cash in on the poorly made film, some of the crummy plot from Tokyo Drift was also implemented.
 
  
  You start out as a street racer coming back to his hometown after losing his reputation and territory, 
 but instead of going to war over the land throughout the city, you race for it. The whole plot 
 is just silly as it revolves around this strange idea. The storyline throws a few twists at you 
 through awkward-looking cut-scenes, which may give you a few surprises, but the plot disrupts you 
 from the real action./ Carbon certainly delivers on its main aspect: the racing. The excellent 
 speed effects return in Carbon, partnered with physics that find the happy medium between realism 
 and arcade racing. The AI no longer mysteriously catches up to you after taking a hefty lead which 
 avoids much frustration, but now opponent drivers rarely put up a fight. However, the crew leaders 
 put up much more of a challenge, due to their frequent use of the many shortcuts scattered around 
 all of the well-designed tracks.
  
  This time around, there is a vast number of shortcuts in every city track. There are many tracks 
 to choose from as well, but few are truly unique. So halfway through the game, youre going to 
 get tired of all the similar tracks. All the races are performed during the night, which adds to 
 the repetition. There are no beautiful daytime maps that injected much flavor into Most Wanted 
 that can be found in Carbon.
  
  Another feature thats missing is the long police chases. Sure, there are still cops that you can 
 have hot on your tail, but theres no reason to keep the pursuit going anymore. Since you no longer 
 have to gain bounty, the cops are just a disruption during the main career. There are police challenges 
 to complete in the Challenge Series and the Reward Cards, but completing them will only get you 
 maybe a new spoiler or roof scoop. If youre only in for the thrill of the chase, its not as intense 
 because you dont really have a certain goal./ The excellent Drag mode from the past three Need 
 for Speed games has now vanished as well. Back in its place is a totally revamped Drift mode, but 
 youll still be wondering why Carbon cant just have both. Nevertheless, Drift mode is among the 
 best additions to Carbon. The weird physics that make the car feel like its sliding on ice may 
 take a while to get used to, but once you get the hang of it, sliding around the corners is a blast. 
 Drifting on the canyon is particularly exciting as youll be veering around turns with flimsy side 
 rails, inches away from death./ After beating a Crew leader in a city race, you then hit the canyon 
 roads again in a different kind of race. In this canyon duel, you must stay as close behind your 
 opponent during the first run to the finish line; then you must try to keep as far ahead of the 
 following driver as possible. Whoever does the best job, wins the race, and gets the territory 
 at stake. The race is exciting when its evenly matched, but usually youll have the upper hand. 
 Since passing the other car for ten seconds on your first run gets you an automatic win, most of 
 the five boss races will end quickly. / You can coast down the canyon in normal races against three 
 rivals as well. These arent as unique, but they still offer the excitement of being on the edge. 
 Another improvement is the increase of opponents and rides. Now youll usually take part in six-or 
 eight-person races and even be up against eleven competitors in the Race Wars. There are also 
 plenty of good-looking cars to satisfy everyones taste. If you like exotics, tuners, or muscle 
 cars, there is a great amount of options.
  
  The other new features, however, dont improve upon the game. The addition of crew members sounds 
 interesting, but during game-play, your teammates are completely useless. There are drafters who 
 get in front of you to boost your speed, scouts who locate shortcuts, and blockers who ram other 
 drivers. The crew members end up hurting more than helping because they constantly get in your 
 way. Shortcuts arent hard to find, so scouts arent needed and since youll usually be ahead of 
 the pack, blockers wont help either. After drafting a teammate, you will probably find yourself 
 having too much speed for a corner, or just crashing straight into your crew member./ Certain crew 
 members are also needed for specific Auto-sculpts which allows you to customize the little details 
 of your vehicle. However, the changes are barely noticeable and you may just ignore the tool, because 
 there are already an amazing amount of ways to make your car look unique. Many new visual upgrades 
 are available to apply to your vehicle. Now you are able to put many vinyls on a car and even change 
 the color of every aspect of each vinyl. No matter how you modify your car, you know it will look 
 excellent, due to superb graphics.
  
  While Carbon looks quite similar to Most Wanted, the visuals certainly hold up to todays standards. 
 The car models are smooth and even reflect the light around them. The detailed and mostly destructible 
 environments never fail to impress either. You will see anything from small phone booths being 
 destroyed to whole constructions sites being turned into rubbish. However, if youve experienced 
 the amazing lighting in Most Wanted, its hard to be amazed by Carbons dark environments.
  
  Fans of Most Wanted will also be bummed about Carbons soundtrack featuring a forgettable mix 
 of standard hip-hop and rap, plus a strange Japanese track. Your crew members occasionally tell 
 you useless information during the races, which gets old very quick thanks to the limited phrases. 
 The sound effects do vary dramatically between different cars and you always get to hear a satisfying 
 smash when colliding with an object.
  
  Too much is thrown out from Most Wanted to warrant a definite buy from anyone interested, but Need 
 for Speed fans will enjoy some of the interesting features. If youre a racing fan thats intrigued 
 by the dangers of the canyon or by the arcade-like drifting, you owe it to yourself to check this 
 one out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lysluk
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 24, 2007 2:11 pm PT
Review:  That is the question. I dont need to go in detail, since this game is just another yearly release 
 from EA's NFS series. If you really liked the many intense cop chases and the day lighting provided 
 from Most Wanted, then skip this game. It is a sequel to last year yes, but this is also bringing 
 back drifting and Underground night racing less the crazy cop chases. There are still chases, but 
 very minimal.
  
  Same with the graphics, it improves but its small improvements.
  Gameplay is nearly identical, except a few new stuff here and there which some people may not like, 
 and others will like. Take the crew feature for example. You are not alone out there anymore, cuz 
 you can get a team under your belt now. You get to hire a max of 3 crews at one time, and each 
 have their own ability that may help or hinder you when racing. Theres only one crew member available 
 to activate during some races, and sometimes they are helpful because they can take out a racer 
 ahead of you like the Blocker (depending on the member's charge bar if its sufficient) , and other 
 times some members are not that helpful during races. Personally, its an ok new feature added but 
 I doubt the next NFS title will include this option.
  
  They do have a nice race type called the Canyon battle, usually its available when you have nearly 
 beat all the races in the current territory you are in. At other times, its a boss race. Basically, 
 the battle pits you and the boss one on one, through a canyon race where you take turns trying 
 to play cat and mouse to eachother. If you fall to far behind, you start to lose points and you 
 dont want that. There are also sharp turns that could cause you to crash if you run over it..... it 
 makes sense since this is a track on the cliffs. The camera angles during those turns are neat, 
 it makes you feel like your on the edge.... but it also affects your steering a bit because of the 
 sudden camera shift. The cars in this game is decent for selections, they have them all almost..... from 
 Muscle cars to Tuners to Exotics.
  
  Customization is still there, but its not a realistic game where you can tune every little parts, 
 however, they still give users some control. To end the talk, ...... I didnt get impressed with 
 the demo, but I did get impressed with the full version. Its much better and even though its good, 
 I still liked the Most Wanted better. Well, try out the game first, or play the HD 360 one in retail 
 stores, see what you think about Carbon then. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ausutorarisu
Rating: 6.1
Date: Dec 25, 2006 11:01 am PT
Review:  There are many player reviews out there so I am not going to recycle similar ideas over and over 
 again.
  
  Carbon looks good visually. It was obvious to point out that a new engine of image had been used 
 to produce this game. While I appreciate Carbon's graphics quality, I don't admit that it overwhelms 
 Most Wanted. Cars look shinier and more reflective than in Most Wanted but seem a little but fake 
 to me. Allow me to say they look more like rubber toy cars in Carbon. Carbon was set in night so 
 the visuals of dusk time were nowhere to be found in it.
  
  The sound is quite well done. I have nothing more to say about it.
  
  The crew concept is innovative 
 and I strongly recommend it in later NFS games. They change the typical formula of games in which 
 you fight your way all by yourself throughout the whole game. To a certain extent, the crew can 
 be like co-op gaming and make the game less boring, especially when we are talking about replay 
 value. Sure the crew can block your way but these setbacks are outweighed by its benefits. Drifters 
 and blockers are very crucial to increase your lead in various types of games. Scouts are less 
 useful because your ride is to fast to steer into the track where the shortcuts they find are. 
 However, scouts are quick and they can sometimes win a sprint race for you.
  
  The canyon duels are hard! I love to challenge myself. Yet I would like to add that some duels 
 can be too annoying like the one against Darius in Career Mode. Thankfully a surpass opponent mechanism 
 was included, which let you win the whole canyon race at once when you outpace the enemy for 10 
 seconds. Without it, some duels can hardly be achieved.
  
  Police pursuits are my favourite. Those who don't know please download Most Wanted's demo from 
 Gamespot. The pursuits are identical except the graphics differences. It happens to me the higher 
 order police (Lv. 4 and 5) in Carbon has superior AI than in Most Wanted. They busted me a few times 
 driving me crazy.
  
  With the height we gained from Most Wanted's story, we are officially no. 1 on the blacklist in 
 Rockport City. This identity cannot be separated from our rocket-fast race car, BMW M3 GTR. Just 
 that one, no others. it is a pity we are now forced to say farewell to it, not even allowed to 
 join its funeral. Yup, Carbon tells us, our BMW M3 GTR was totaled beyond repairs during the introductory 
 pursuit with Cross. I am such person who not only jumps into the action, but also cares about the 
 story. The retirement of BMW M3 GTR is a shame before Cross never to be removed and also destroys 
 the symbol of our gorgeous days in Rockport, making us feel like a weakling starting from ground 
 zero once again. That does not feel good. Besides, we will no longer see the BMW M3 GTR again in 
 Career mode. Fans like me are really upset about this. As a gamer site stated, we are getting too 
 used to the formula where we start off with a crap car. Undeniably, some of us do not want to put 
 any attention in upgrading and hope to race in a rocket from start to finish.
  
  In fact, i have some ideas how to keep the BMW M3 GTR from retirement without affect the 'crap 
 car formula'. We all know that the crew has different skills other than their roles. A blocker 
 can be a fixer himself. Let us say, the BMW M3 GTR had been damaged too heavily and cannot be revived 
 until you come across the point when you can deploy the crew to fix it. Or, Darius had kept your 
 car in secret, claiming it was destroyed. After he turned out to be evil, Nikki rebelled against 
 him and bring it back. These plots can keep your BMW in Career but sadly they did not appear in 
 Carbon's developers' mind.
  
  Reading posts on the forum, I noticed that a gamer suggested that we should take on Darius in our 
 BMW M3 GTR. I think so.
  
  How could the developers be so idiotic? One more thing to mention, we can in no way believe that 
 our BMW M3 GTR was destroyed because it crashed into a pursuit breaker. We crashed into them hundreds 
 of times! The story script is totally inconsistent to the game itself.
  
  The inconsistence continues. You defeated Darius eventually but you cannot use his car in Career 
 Mode even though he said 'the keys are in the car' in front of ya? That was beyond logic!
  
  One further issue I must complain about is that you only win $500 second time winning a race, 
 despite how hard it can be when an enemy crew attacked. This reduces incentive for re-races to 
 make cash and leads to a lack of cash. Unlike in Most Wanted, you have a diminishing source of 
 income so you cannot buy more and more new rides.
  
  Carbon is a worthwhile game but it is not great. I am happy with Gamespot's official review and 
 how they scored it. This game cannot win against Most Wanted. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dsd02_
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 23, 2006 3:55 pm PT
Review:  If you liked NFSU, you will most certainly enjoy this 14th installment of most famous racing games 
 franchise in the world. It combines the best things from all previous illegal street racing games 
 under Need for Speed name and adds exclusive features witch almost nails things to the top. Differently 
 from last installment - Most Wanted, customizing performance and visuals are easier, and with added 
 Autosculpt it is more fun then ever. And now it has cops! At last we get to play tag with road 
 patrols , and witch in my opinion is important part of whole illegal racing thing and adds more 
 excitement. Now what really makes this game different is that you have your team, witch unlocks 
 some Autosculpt options and more importantly - you get their help during races. Different team 
 members aid you differently : drafters - speed you up, blockers - blocks targeted racers from other 
 team, scouts - find and show you all shortcuts in track. They come in pretty handy in some situations 
 and makes game much more easier.
  
  Now for racing types, drag is gone, but drift is back, witch is easier, tho still manages to produce 
 thrills in it's canyon version. Speaking of canyons, it's brand new racing type in witch you have 
 to tag-race your opponent after witch he tag-races you too. The point is to gain more points when 
 trying to catch him, then when he or she tries to catch you.
  
  Next new thing is Reward Cards, these cards are unlocked as you do random stuff in various modes 
 of game. This and Challenge Series may unlock new cars, tracks and visual customizations. And damn- 
 that's addictive ( I'm still working on unlocking the Police's Rhino ) .
  
  Music selection is as always great and only tires screeching into asphalt interrupts balanced play-list.
 
  
  As for graphics I found it not that much worse then Most Wanted, as many people claimed it was. 
 Tho Carbon has different style with monotonic overlaying backgrounds and speed-lines witch gave 
 this game this comic-like feeling witch I enjoyed greatly.
  
  I guess it all comes down to what you liked better Most Wanted and classic or new Underground ones. 
 As for me - i got my long awaited Underground sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 70x7
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 20, 2006 6:44 pm PT
Review:  First off, lets really look at what other racing games we have to choose from. Quallity is simply 
 not there, and even through the Underground phase of NFS, it's stayed on top as far as offering 
 a solid racing experience with innovations. Even if those innovations were spawned by pop-culture, 
 they still added something, even if it was glitz and glamor, to the game.
  
  What did you really expect going in? That's what's popular in the racing world. Short of NASCAR 
 thats about the only type of racing that is going to sell to gamers. The customization is great, 
 even better than Underground 1 and 2. The car selection is good, and challenge mode really adds 
 some replayability. Graphics are great, and the gameplay is all there.
  
  I'm not sure what you guys are really looking for, when comparing to the other racing games which 
 are all either ultra-realistic and boring, or under-realistic and ridiculous for the most part, 
 at least thats what us PC gamers are stuck with.
  
  So the car physics need some tweaks, I doubt half of the reviewers have driven any of the cars 
 in the game to know how they really handel anyway. This is my good review to try and balance out 
 the nazi-istic tendencies of the other posters, who keep the series going with their cash, but 
 really just pay for the right to complain non-stop. Much love to you, you keep my stocked with 
 relatively decent racing games.
  
  ---
  
  Firstly, lets start off with the premise. This is truely Underground 3, what really what's so bad 
 about that? It takes the Most Wanted series and combines it with Underground 1 and 2, then puts 
 in a spice of new features. What downfalls you see in the old titles you will see here. Imperfect 
 physic comparisons, unrealistic AI somehow magically catching up to you after being a lap down 
 just to cause **** for you 3 ft from the finish line, running from 1000 cops gets awefully boring 
 and tedious after a while. Luckily they added some new features to try and balance such out. New 
 cars and classes, you now get to choose between Muscle, Exotic, and Tuner, rather than just being 
 forced into a ricer like its predecessors. Customization of your car has always been a big deal 
 with the franchise and this is no different, they added several new features like body molding 
 as well as a slew of customizable cosmetic features for your car. They removed the U2 system that 
 forced you to you have nonsense you didn't want on your car (removed spinners, thank god) . With 
 the graphic boost, things like different types of paint and such can really be appreciated more.
 
  
  When people call the games racing a joke, you'll all have to assume they are referring to drifting, 
 which can get a bit inconsistent, admitedly. But really I doubt any of them have drifted ever so 
 should they be the judge of how it really works short of slipping their stock Toyota Corolla's 
 around a corner on a rainy day. The game feels more solid to me, thats the only word that comes 
 to mind. The cars feel as if they actually have weight to them, which is something I didn't feel 
 with the past titles. One down side is the soundtrack, it's not up to par with the past soundtracks 
 that the underground series had to offer, a lot of premade music and very few actual songs makes 
 it bland.
  
  Most of the other complaints going around either hold no grounds are meticulous rants about nonsense 
 from the anti-fanboys out there.
  
  Don't listen, give the game a try for yourself, it's not as bad as everyone makes it out to be, 
 I promise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: prince_elad_69
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 20, 2006 10:52 am PT
Review:  this game will desapoint every one who will play it so do yourself a favor and freaken download 
 it from emule or somethig else!!!
  
  GRAPHICS: not good like most wanted... exully it looks like hell... and i played it in the maximum... dont 
 buy this game!!
  
  SOUND: not good as most wanted.. most wanted sound was a whole lot better than carbon... dont buy 
 this game!!!
  
  GAMEPLAY: as all racing game you really dont have a gameplay because you only race this games so 
 in these game you have new friends to help you.. way am i a **** that cant win a race on his own?! 
 WTF!!! anyway dont buy this game!
  
  overall these game sucks in a whole lot of ways and its better to keep your mony yo buy something 
 good... like burnout: revenge... or any other game.
  
  BUY BUY 
::::::

::::::
UserName: funnyCigarette
Rating: 6.2
Date: Dec 19, 2006 3:23 am PT
Review:  Why? In Underground2 you got a really nice feeling of what the car handles like - it was 50/50 
 between arcade and simulation. Most Wanted was 100% arcade, but still fun to drive. The handling 
 in Carbon is just a bit messed up MW handling. The idea of teammates? The scout was only slowing 
 me down in the corners. And the drafter... I understand that you get some speed boost, but you 
 can also go through 90degree turns about 200km/h... annoying. Drift events? The cars handle like 
 those carts in supermarkets. So what about the tuning? Same as in the older NFS games with a few 
 new goodies - you can place any vinyl in any place on the car (cool!) . There's also something called 
 Autosculpt, where you can modify some parts like bumpers, skirts, even rims - but there are only 
 a few parts and no matter how you adjust those sliders - the parts still look kinda... crappy. 
 The graphics? I think you have to own two 7600GT's in SLI mode to turn on motion blur - and when 
 you do, you only get sea sick. Other thing is that the reflecions on the cars look like they are 
 made of mirrors. And finally... the city, your world , is just boring and kinda looks the same 
 where ever you go, much worse than U2 or MW. Anyway I still recommend you to play the game, it's 
 fun to check out all the rides and complete the career mode for the first time, but afterwards 
 you'll most probably unistall the game and never return to play it. So what now? If you like the 
 night - get/return to Underground2. If you're ok with daylight - get/return to Most Wanted. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: na_X
Rating: 7.2
Date: Dec 18, 2006 7:43 pm PT
Review:  If EA could have added some better control of the cars, and added a bit of car physics then this 
 would have been much better. There are some things to do in the extra list, but a few cars and 
 vinyls doesn`t tempt that much after you finished the game under 10 hours and you are all bored 
 of it already because the maps are the same and the gameplay aren`t the best. Even the co-pilots 
 are better in the PSP version, but it`s always funny when cars come flying by in 500km/h++ when 
 you max out in over 300km/h and are 20sec. in lead and drives perfect in the latest EA NFS games. 
 For the most the co-pilots could have been home and slept, they just crash into you and mess up 
 your winning race most of the time and you would probably be better off without them. It looks 
 like it`s the co-pilots that are your best competition, but you are winning anyway if you or the 
 co-pilot are winning. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kael17
Rating: 7.2
Date: Dec 17, 2006 7:30 am PT
Review:  Well NFS carbon looks good at first look, cool graphics, team mates, the whole thing about the city 
 quarters and the opponent teams.
  But in fact its only NFS Underground 3.
  The cop chases are not so enjoyable like in Most Wanted, and there is the thing with the night races, most 
 people like to race on day, or the could create a game with changing daytime day/night.
  
  Team: Well it looks good and everything but those team-mates are a little useless if you are a pro 
 gamer (if you player at least 3 nfs games-at least to 60%) .
  
  Car customization: Well thats a little too confusing, there are so much options and even a pro can 
 lost in its options.
  
  So as i said in sum: This game i NFS: Underground 2 + Cops, and team mates.
  (and of course some 
 useless changes) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: da_capo
Rating: 3
Date: Dec 16, 2006 3:32 pm PT
Review:  I never saw such a trivial game in all my life. Carbon is a game for kids. actually I am so p... ed 
 off... Why? the game is all right - the speed feeling is great. its trivial but still all right. 
 but mate this is unbelieveble: the DRIFT ideea is the stupidest ideea I ever saw in my life. the 
 previews versions of NFS had good DRIFT system. I enjoyed it. but this ONE: GOOD FOR NOTHING. Ive 
 got some other friends and they simply stoped playing this game, because they dont wanna play those 
 DRIFTS events. Its so anoying, I almost broke the monitor. I spend the money for nothing and I 
 cant finish the game only because of that. everything else is excuseble, but not this. some others 
 thought that it might be better to do something to avoid those DRIFTS, so u can actually finish 
 the game. me and my friends were looking on the internet - maybe there is a way, maybe somebody 
 did something to avoid, destroy, delete, formate, erase, kill those DRIFTS events.
  
  I am not the only one obset about it. many people complaind about those DRIFTS events.
  
  Anyway, 
 I wont play NFS again 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marlonsm
Rating: 6.6
Date: Mar 15, 2007 9:41 am PT
Review:  After some time playing it there is nothing to do, there are the reward cards, but they are repetitive 
 and to complete some of them you need to play the game everyday for several (repetitive) weeks. 
 For example : there is a card that you need to have 1 000 000 cash, the first time you win a race 
 you get a large amount of money (10 000) , but then when you win the same race again you get like 
 2 000 cash (remember that you need 1 000 000 --- 500 races --- 5 minutes each one --- 2 500 min 
 of game --- more than 40 hours only in repetitive races) .
  There is the online play too, its better than the rest of the game, but after they released that 
 patch, i couldn't play online anymore, i tried to install it, but it didn't work.
  
  And the races are REALLY EASY, your car is twice as fast as the other cars and you can crash it 
 how many time as you want, you need a few races to finish the game (you can do it in 1 or 2 weeks) 
 and tuning your car is relatively cheap. This game is so easy that if you have an TV near the PC, 
 you can watch TV and, at the same time, win races. The only race that has a good difficult is the 
 canion duel.
  
  The NFS series is getting worse. NFSU2 was a great game, NFSMW was cool, but not like NFSU2. And 
 now NFSC...
  
  I think I'm not going to buy the next game in this series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SwetSSSSahu
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 15, 2006 10:14 am PT
Review:  I don't know why Carbon is getting such low marks on reviews but in my opinion its quite good actually. 
 Back when NFS: UG2 was released I was totally excited about it and it met all my expectations. It 
 was a comparatively long, story driven game. Then came Most Wanted. I was excited about this too. 
 But somehow it wasn't satisfying to me. I mean there were some cool new additions, like bringing 
 the police back and all, but you usually associate illegal street racing with night time right? 
 So the mid-day mode didn't suite the game at all (my opinion) . And also I didn't find the game 
 addictive. Sure I was excited in the beginning, when I recieved the game, but gradually the excitement 
 just thinned away. Overall it didn't let me down but neither did it live up to the image I was 
 hoping for. And, now, Need For Speed : Carbon has arrived. When I first looked at the ratings, 
 I couldn't believe my eyes, 6.7! How can a need for speed game get such a low score? I mean after 
 all the development of these games were going so well. I couldnt belive it. I had to experience 
 the game myself. So I bought the game and let me tell you the ratings don't do justice to the game, 
 believe me. The game is highly addictive and immersive (despite the cheesy lines by the actors) . 
 Its really an enjoyable game. The game picks up where Most Wanted ended (which I wouldnt know as 
 I didnt complete the game) but even for the players who haven't played Most Wanted its easy to 
 pick up the story (atleast it was so with me) . The night-time mode is back which really creates 
 a great atmosphere for the street races. This time around you've got partners to help you out in 
 the races. The great thing is that its not necessary for you to win each and every race, if your 
 partner wins you win. And the partners aren't bad either they have their own strenghts. You probably 
 already know the details of the partners so I will just skip on. Its not necessary for you travel 
 all the way from one end of the city to another to start in a race, you can just open up the world 
 map select a racing event and just jump to the racing event (without having to travelling all the 
 way to participate) . The game is easy to pick up and play and it shouldnt take long for you to 
 adjust to the driving settings. The graphics are stunning (as expected) and the new canyon races 
 are an excellent addition (althought it can get a bit irritaing sometimes) . I found drafting race 
 types to be very hard this time around. This time around we have to capture territories which can 
 be done by just winning 2 races out of the available 3 of a particular part of the the terrirtory 
 and thus allowing us to gain territories. There are still other neat features about which I haven't 
 discussed yet but will do so later on but overall this game deserves a game rating of atleast 8.0 
 to do it justice. For me it loses points for not utilizing the police chases as extensively as 
 they should have and on the fact that it felt too short (also the soundtracks weren't good at all) . 
 So for those of you who haven't tried out Most Wanted yet then just directly go for this package, 
 it will be much more staisfying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Midgard9
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 15, 2006 12:12 am PT
Review:  Whoever came up with the canyon race needs a punch in the throat. Talk about sucking the fun out 
 of a perfectly good game. The drift thing is mighty lame too ... especially on a dark, downhill 
 cliff road. Meh. Very tedious and frustrating. The other normal races are fine and plenty of fun. 
 The police chaces, however, really don't have much purpose anymore and are little more than an 
 annoyance when they pop up during a race. The graphics are good, the turf thing was kind of cool, 
 and the car customization is nice. Still, sort of a letdown overall mainly because of the two new 
 crap races. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vivaldi0
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 14, 2006 1:39 am PT
Review:  This game blows major big time! I want my money and my TIME back!
  No steering wheel in the game.... people, just look at GTR2! or any other car racing game for that 
 matter!..... The other games at least support the Track IR and really brings you in the game, so 
 i would pass on this one if i were you, unless you are some urban punk who just wants to act like 
 a jerk with the subs in the back and snoop dog blasting throughout the neighborhood pissing off 
 everyone. Well... i wonder if i have at least said 100 words, so that everyone really knows how 
 bad this game sucks my b&amp; ( (%. Dont be a dip %$1^ and burn this piece of crap. Give it to Ray 
 on the other side of the tracks... He may enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Omidno2006
Rating: 7.7
Date: Dec 13, 2006 10:29 am PT
Review:  There are 3 points that we should attend before write a review:
  1. At first we should know it's prepared for X360, PS3 &amp; PC because of this it was the beginning 
 of a new series of need for speed.
  2. The graphic engine has upgraded to a new one because of this there was more attention on graphics 
 than gameplay.
  3. Carbon has astriong story from and now in fact the versions before this didn't have bright stories.
 
  After need for speed underground many parts of viuals removed but the graphics increased in carbon 
 graphics was so good. You could play the game on high graphical quality and don't have any problems.
 
  Carbon could be better if it had presented amonth later. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ilikemuffins000
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 13, 2006 4:59 pm PT
Review:  Well, when I first heard Need for Speed: Carbon instead of Need for Speed: Most Wanted 2 I didn't 
 know what to feel. Most Wanted was a great game with a great storyline and I didn't want to move 
 on... not yet at least. Then maybe a change will be good. I got Carbon, and the change was good... very 
 good.
  
  The game puts you in the same character you were in, in Most Wanted, Underground 2 and so on. Your 
 ride gets totaled (what a surprise; didn't see that one coming EA!) and you have to start from 
 scratch. There are basically three types of cars in the game. Muscle, Tuner, and Exotic. Although 
 most people would probably think Tuner is the fastest Exotic wins the bet. The Muscle section contains 
 cars like the '69 Dodge Charger, the Corvette Z06 (?!) , and the Dodge Viper SRT10 (??!!) . Hmmm. 
 I guess they ran out of cars. The tuner section is packed with cars like the Mazda RX-8 and RX-7, 
 the Nissan Skyline GTR, and the Mitsubishi EVO. The Exotic section contains, Lamborghinis, the 
 SLR Maclaren Mercedes, the Ford GT, the Carrera GT, and the Aston Martin DB9. All the car groups 
 are also divided into tiers . There's Tier 1, Tier 2, and Tier 3. They don't want you to go too 
 fast in the beginning. You go through the game buying, selling and of course tuning your rides 
 to their maximum perfection. There are three, wait four bosses in the game. One is focused on Muscle 
 cars, one on Tuners, and the last on Exotics. The last boss is the boss with the flashy car that 
 comes every time you load the menu. Once you defeat the three bosses in what are called canyon 
 duels you win their part of the city and have a chance to get the pink slip for their car. Once 
 3/4 parts of the city are captured the three old bosses get new cars and team up against you. You 
 have to race them all over again until you can finally race the best guy.
  
  The graphics on this game are O. K. Since they play on my friend's GeForce 6200 they're not Oblivion 
 style. The gameplay, like any other NFS game, is based mostly on racing with tuning on the side. 
 The new addition of canyon duels is sort of annoying. The race is divided into two parts. The first 
 part you follow the boss and the second he/she follows you. In the first part you have to stay 
 as close to the boss as you can; the closer you are to them the more points you rack up. If you 
 smash into their car you loose 5,000 points. If you pass them for 10 seconds you win the entire 
 duel; both parts. If you fall behind 300 feet or more, you lose and have to start over. The second 
 part you have to avoid the boss and try to lose them. If you lose more points than you gained in 
 the first part, you lose. If you pull ahead 300 feet or more for 10 seconds you win. If they pass 
 you for 10 seconds or more you lose the entire duel. Did I mention you have to do all this while 
 staying on the road and not falling off the canyon? Well yes, you do. There are guard rails everywhere 
 and if you fall off the cliff, you lose. So once you do that about 5 or 6 times, you become pissed. 
 The sound isn't really much to talk about, unless of course you have the 5.1 DolbyDigital 7 speaker 
 surround/HD sound stereo system thingy. Then you can really hear the engine choke. Whopee!
  
  The value is O. K. For $40.00 new, it's quite a rip I think. But again the gameplay is awesome.
 
  
  Rent or Buy
  I suggest rent then buy if you like what you're playing. Don't go Ohh! ilikemuffins000 told me 
 it's good so I should go and blow $40.00 on it! Rent it first. Once again, RENT IT FIRST!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mmayerss
Rating: 2.2
Date: Dec 11, 2006 3:02 pm PT
Review:  This game is a step backward in the series. Having to re-do races to extend the games length is 
 just lame. Cops are very annoying, unlocking cars is slow, you never have the chance to use cars 
 since you start unlocking them at the end of the game, so what's the point then. Crew sucks, they'll 
 get in your way, block you, and when you wont them to block they are nowhere to be seen. This is 
 a bad game. Need for Speed Most Wanted OWNS this game. The game is total letdown. Disappointing, 
 disastrous, boring, rent it do not buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lorddarthvik
Rating: 4.8
Date: Dec 10, 2006 6:58 pm PT
Review:  I'm writing this review as a gamer who played lots of driving games, from NFS1 through GTR to this 
 piece of unmentionable.
  
  Another new episode of NFS is out and ready to cut deep into your pocket, again. The setting takes 
 the player to the evernight world of streetraceing, again. Nothnig new to see here, the streets 
 are dark, the textures look best on PC of cours, but the detail is still too low for a 2006 game. 
 Every texture, building, object of the enviroment was seen in Most Wanted or Underground2. Strangely 
 enough, the designers found that the chrome-like shine of the road was a bit too much and decided 
 to reduce it to an acceptable level. BUT they made the car paints so reflective that even an absolutely 
 clean mirror has less reflection. So the otherwise great modells of cars are totally ruined by 
 overly bright reflections. Turning car reflections off is a must for any sane person. Another nice 
 new feature is the reduced crappy frame-rate the game produces on ANY kind of computer build. The 
 machine that could run Most Wanted fast will struggle to keep up with Carbon. It's really a bad 
 joke, as the graphics look pretty much like Underground2. New gameplay features got implemented, 
 like the wingman system. It's (not) fun to watch your wingman block your way when you send him 
 to scout for shortcuts and its charge runs out... Blockers work allright, as long as all the AI 
 racers are out of view and not even visible in the mirror. But why would you need a blocker when 
 your allready in the lead by so much that you can't even see the others? The answer is catch-up 
 , see details later. Drafters is the same thing, absolutely pointless. So, nice new feature, too 
 bad its mostly useless. Next new feature is, the new visual and performenance tuning system. Performenance 
 tuning is pretty easy, it works, but really pointless in an arcade game. Underground2's tuning 
 system was fun and was complicated enough to have a right to exist, allthough it was also pointless, 
 as changeing anything made your car perform worse due to the primitive idea of more HP=more everything 
 .... Well this problem doesn't arrise here, as the tuning is pretty simple and straightforward. 
 Changing the visuals of the car is another interesting feature. The so called autosculpt is pretty 
 much fun and creative, its the first (and only) really new thing in the game. Allthough its pretty 
 much bugged (example, sometimes you can put any number of wings on a car, sometimes the wing is 
 not positioned in the middle and you can't change it...) , it does bring some nice new custome rides 
 to the track. The other would be nice if it worked feature is the vinyl managing system. Pushing 
 on the arrow buttons to move a vinyl around on the car is a nice thing, but when you have to do 
 it for over a minute to get a vinyl to the other side of the car is a disaster. And, you have to 
 rotate it the same way as it arrives on the other side upside down. So, this is a sure way that 
 you can never ever make a symmetrical looking vinyl arrangement again. The races itself are exactly 
 the same as in Underground, except that there's no drag race (thanx god) . The new downhill and 
 closed track drift races are some nice fun, it's the only enjoyable race type. Any kind of race 
 that includes AI cars is a headache. The AI is as sparkling as a bottle of mineral water, wich 
 was left open in the sun for 2 weeks. So it stinks. Again, it is dumb, &uuml; berprimitive, and 
 frustrating. You can never ever give an AI car a lap in a circuit race, because of the catch up 
 system. Once you get a decent lead, the program starts to keep all the AI cars so close that they 
 don't get off of the minimap. Another really frustrating thing is the use of nitro. It only works 
 for the AI, but when you use it, they match your speed without any trouble, so it looks as if you 
 didn't even burned through that 20lb bottle of nitro at all.... Of course, the AI racers can not 
 be pushed or spin in any way, as you immedietaly start to lose speed when you touch another car. 
 Sadly, the last NFS where the player had equal rights to spin out AI cars and get spinned out by 
 the AI was in Porsche Unleashed (2000) . Other good news about the game include a totally boring 
 soundtrack, absolutely pointless cop chases (with even dumber but harder cops then MW) , and about 
 10 new cars. Some nice muscle cars been added, and some old friends return (350Z, Skyline..) but 
 a lot more cars got lost in this new game. Strange that it has double the install size, because 
 the content is about half of Most Wanted. Half as short, half as many cars, half as big city. Oh 
 yeah, the city is huge, but you can count on your and a friends hands how many different 3D modells 
 of buildings, objects, and textures it uses. All in all, it turned out worse than boring, as it 
 can get very very frustrating. I wonder when will they realize that a stock mazda rx8 with some 
 shiny wheels can't beat an Aston DB9. To tell you the truth, an rx8 couldn't even beat my 12 year 
 old opel astra till 140km/h from a standing start.... EA won't listen to us players as the name 
 still sells this thing, so the only thing you can do to make them create a better game is that 
 you DO NOT BUY THIS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeathZone_xen
Rating: 2.1
Date: Dec 10, 2006 5:15 pm PT
Review:  As it's nothing compared to the Most Wanted, and brutaly honest, It SUCKS......
  AS I said I've waited So long, to be shuckked with it's simplisity, althought the Cinamatics were 
 great, the game didn't get that hot...
  And why the hell didn't they let the Audi car be buyable... I mean why can't I Buy it and add it 
 to My cars.....
  This is realy disapointing. .
  = ( = ( = ( = ( = ( = ( = ( = ( = ( = ( = ( = ( = ( = ( = ( = ( = ( = ( = ( = ( = ( = ( = ( = ( = ( = ( = ( = ( = ( = ( =
  
 The cars are greatly represented, but the game play is realy silly.
  I finished it withen 20 hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: j2345
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 10, 2006 4:31 am PT
Review:  Well ive spent some time playing it now and im kinda dissapointed. i loved drifting in the original 
 Underground but then underground 2 seemed to be a little worse. and to say the least the drifting 
 in this one just sucks! = ( and since when could a Ford Crown Victoria keep up witha sports car? 
 kinda agravating, also they appear out of nowhere. the grpahics are pretty decent and then again 
 gameplay is fun when u can forgot about the many stupid things. one thing ive hated most about 
 racing games is that you have to UNLOCK cars! since when does a car dealership say... sorry sir 
 you must unlock this cars first LOL .. i like the whole idea of earing money and buying a car.
 
  Pros+
  Fun to play LOTS of cars to pick form
  good grpaics for a raing game
  
  Cons-
  Drifting is very dissapointing
  Cops come out of nowhere is SWARMS! ( like most wanted)
 
  frame rates get kinda low on my 7800GTX = ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cherian_saarge
Rating: 6.9
Date: Dec 10, 2006 12:15 am PT
Review:  NFS carbon was one of the most awaited games this year, EA could have come up with better .
  The only part abou the game that i liked the most was the unique canyon duel which is addictive.
 
  And finally drift is back , but this time itz competitive . There isnt much in the storyline same 
 old frame, twisted here and there.
  You are one of the most hated driver in the city because of your past The crew part in the game 
 is not worth it, because in the end u have to win the races the old way.
  About the crew
  1. Blocker: Sounds good in the begining but get in ur way most of the time in race and ruins it
 
  2. Drafter: you cant use a drafter unless and untill u get a nice long stretch of track ,u ll find 
 bumping onto the street walls frequently while drafting wich can cost u alot
  3. Scout: Well you can have Sal and collin in your crew coz autosculpting cant be done without them. They 
 dont serve the cause of scouting though.
  
  You start palying the game and be waiting for a nice donuement ,but it just backfires The story 
 comes to an abrupt end .
  Regarding the gameplay ,not addictive compared to the old NFS titlesa
  and one tht ne NFS hardcore 
 fan lookforward to is the kewl soundtrack it offers but again NFS carbon dissapoints you all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kambosa
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 22, 2007 12:22 pm PT
Review:  Need for speed Carbon, I can only say one word, AWESOME ,the best in the whole series. It's gaming 
 atmosphere of the late night ... moon light thing is the greatest thing i liked about this game. 
 The graphics are great although they didn't differ much from Most Wanted... but still amazing ..
 
  
  The race types are almost the same, and as others commented about the drifting in the game and 
 how it is strange .. but once you get used to it really is fun. In the end it is a must to give 
 it a try and i am sure you will LIKE... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Drugstein
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 9, 2006 10:11 am PT
Review:  I know NFS since the first tittle, I simply love NFS games... Every year with something new to 
 let us crazy waiting for the next tittle...
  Well let's talk about the game...
  
  GFX
  Very very good GFX, but I experienced some Glitches and broken parts on some parts of the city. 
 Cars and City are very well done, Carbon Tracks are a little realistic at all...
  
  Gameplay
  At the beggining you will be unfimiliar with the handling system, but it's good at 
 all, making a curve sliding your car while you change gear, and put the car again on track hitting 
 the accelerator button is very crazy.
  For most gamers the DRIFT is BAD, and it is, but if you think CARBON DRIFT is easy, you're mistaken, 
 too much difficult for me to control the car at high speed sliding that on curves without hitting 
 wall... I suffer on that...
  
  Sound
  Just a Word for this SPECTACULAR . In this tittle I liked very much the song YONDERBOY - People 
 Always Talk About the Weather (Junkie Xl) .
  All the soundtrack on this game is good, since the rock to the techno.
  Car's sounds are realistic 
 and gives the impression of real cars...
  I don't liked the sliding sound, very artificial...
  
  Spot
  Better than Most Wanted, more 
 Scenes, good actors... but I prefer Josie...
  
  Multiplayer
  PURSUIT on multiplayer is very fun, the action is better.
  but i disliked the fact that every 
 one use AUDI LeMans to race, this is very very bad.... It would be better if everyone raced with 
 created cars or carrer cars...
  
  Well the game is Good, and I'm waiting for next Tittle... see ya 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aakash16
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 8, 2007 9:26 am PT
Review:  Nfs Carbon is a game which according to me is best in the series. As posses many changes in which 
 most are great. EA has tried to bulit a game which is the mixture of underground and most wanted. 
 In this game you'll find that the graphics are one of the best features as it posses great reality 
 in cars. The Canyon racing is very good, it brings a change in the pace of NFS. Crew is new feature 
 in which there are Blockers, Scouts, and Drafters. Blockers are the best. The story is great . Firstly, I 
 didn't like this very much but now I'm thinking of its strengths. Sound is different as you'll 
 find that most songs contain music than wordings. the other music is best like background music, etc 
 . One more big change is that there are three classes of cars-exotics, tuners and muscles. All three 
 of them have their own unique qualities. The racing is the best pat of game and you'll enjoy the 
 canyon racing, canyon duels are best, and drift are also very good. the game's big about 11 hours 
 or more but not mroe than most wanted. Most wanted main focus was on pursuits and carbon main focus 
 is on racing. Customization in carbon is better than best. Autoscult feature is built for those 
 who like to design each and every thing of a car. Summary :- NFS Carbon is a worth playing game 
 and it involves changes which you should like and may things are greatly improved.
  Thank you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ricatrinda1993
Rating: 7.1
Date: Dec 7, 2006 12:09 pm PT
Review:  Well I played this game for a while... well it has a lot of things to explore... but the graphics 
 are quite old-fashioned...... there is a missing space in the giant map to sprint.......... I like 
 to go speeding. The cops are quite dumber now I think....... There are a lot of things that need 
 to get better in this game. The wingmen I think they should have more fuctions...... It has a lot 
 of good cars like the old nissan skyline. the game interface is good, but i think the canyon races 
 are a bit difficult. There is also missing drag races. I think this game is worst than Most Wanted. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dreamcat
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 7, 2006 4:52 am PT
Review:  Firstly I rather liked the cheesy scripts, I loved the sense of speed that you recieved when you 
 turn up the graphics on the game and start doing breakneck speeds. It gave me a real adrenaline 
 rush everytime I played it. I loved being chased by the police and racking up damage to the state, 
 I thought it was a tad too easy to escape them, but enjoyed picking them off one by one or in combo's. 
 The slow motion replay of crashes were brilliant, which I loved accelerating towards Police roadblocks 
 just to watch the impact it made. I did think the damage to your own car was not nearly enough 
 and to compare it to the damge you inflict on police cars, it made the game feel a bit more unreal 
 than it should have done. Essentially with this game though its 100% FUN rather than good gameplay, 
 but if you don, t take it too seriously then you should love it. Anyway its got me thinking of trying 
 Need for speed Most wanted and or Underground 2 on the PC, which I immediately wrote off when I 
 played one of them on a Playstation console and found the controls impossible to come to terms 
 with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sourjo
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 6, 2006 8:47 pm PT
Review:  Keep in mind that I have not played Most Wanted, the last nfs game I played before Carbon was Hot 
 Pursuit 2. So the graphics are a huge improvement for me. The handling is pretty sweet too, easily 
 the best drift I get of any racing game I've played so far, on PC or console. I am playing with 
 all graphics options turned up as well as audio. Some elements that I miss from Hot Pursuit 2 are 
 that police copters no longer drop bombs, which is a feature I really enjoyed in that game! A major 
 change I noticed was that smacking your car around actually messes with its performance, after 
 some hard hitting racing, I noticed my steering was drifting by itself and gear changes jerked 
 the car a bit. The good thing is that its only up to a certain point, you never get damaged so 
 badly that you can't race. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wackys
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 6, 2006 6:24 am PT
Review:  As i said before this new installment will bring may new things
  
  The Good: very good and updated graphics, new wingman mechanics open a new layer of strategic planing, the 
 autosculpt feature looks and acts great, more chalenging A. I, new canyon races are pretty cool, many 
 things to unlock, cool FMV, and very developed story
  
  The bad: Very frustrating canyon races, kinda little city to explore, the police is pretty unused, sometimes 
 too hard races, that Tier 1 2 and 3 is kinda lame and annoying
  
  Those boss races are sometimes too hard i allmost threw my keyboard into the monitor. Well i say 
 this one is the best in series. And gamespot is wrong in that review like in most game they review 
 these days. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: equili3rium
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 4, 2006 4:44 am PT
Review:  There is something rotten in the world if this bland effort is going to be the Christmas number 
 one title.
  It's not the night time graphics or the dodgy, canyon gimmick that's at fault. It's the overall 
 feel of the game. At first I was disappointed with NFS most wanted but the great racing that could 
 be had pulled me in.
  This game has something missing and does not feel right. It's like a curious itch that you scratch 
 and scratch but won't go away.
  I uninstalled this game and put Most Wanted back on just to prove to myself that it wasn't just 
 me.
  I was right. NFSMW=good. NFSC=yawn. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danigozne
Rating: 4.9
Date: Dec 4, 2006 2:37 am PT
Review:  I was waiting long ago this game, and had high expectations on it after loving most wanted (with 
 all its faults) Like you love your children.
  
  Buy played this game... It's really disappointing. First of all, I have the best computer money 
 can buy, and still I have to set it up in low settings to play it. The shaders of the car are really 
 odd and unrealistic, and textures really look like low res. The gameplay is average and seriously, 
 there's nothing to enjoy here.
  
  The races are frustrating, because instead of any A. I. the others cars just run more or less depending 
 of how good you are. I wish I never buy this game, but it's too late. Please don't commit the same 
 mistake. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shariq166
Rating: 7.7
Date: Dec 4, 2006 2:25 am PT
Review:  Right after the grand success of nfs Most Wanted , which in my humble opinion is the best installment 
 of nfs series so far comes nfs Carbon. And man was I impressed to see the promos of the games and 
 read the previews. Finally when i got my hands onto it and played the game I was impressed by the 
 features available for customizations. The list of cars was amazing.
  As I progressed through i realized that the motion blur which was so enthralling in Underground 
 and exciting in Most Wanted was simply non-existent. There is no feel of speed in this game. The 
 sound and music are good but not live upto the mark of Underground.
  One thing that destroys this potentially the best racing game is the Canyon racing. Canyon race 
 as a race is not hard but the fact that the race begins from the 1st part even if you have been 
 wrecked or defeated in 2nd part makes it very frustating. Also the absence of nitrous or speedbreaker 
 makes it still harder. And the car you play canyon race remains the same that one has used to defeat 
 the boss in the preceding street race. No autosave between the race. This absence of autosave becomes 
 almost murderous in the final boss fight where there is no autosave for four continuous races - 
 two really good races with the minor bosses and the street race with the main boss. And then you 
 have to do canyon - duelling in the most treacherous track. One thing I missed the most is the 
 thrilling pursuits of the Most Wanted and earning bounty to complete the Rap Sheet. That part was 
 more enjoyong than the actual racing. The challenges are good but some gold events need one to 
 be perfect for the whole duration of the race which really very hard. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vufor
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 3, 2006 1:07 am PT
Review:  I just loved it from first look. It is just great and fantastic. Some mix of NFS: Underground series 
 and NFS: Most Wanted game. Quiet interesting gameplay and storyline. Graphic and sound effects 
 in the game is just superb. Time-break effect and nitro is still with us, which is good and makes 
 whole game really fancy to play. Environment are much better than NFS U series, some similarities 
 to MW, however I reckon there is more than one feature have been upgraded since MW. It looks like 
 the game engine is the same as MWs was, to be honest I am not that much bothered about that, the 
 game is definitely good and worth to have and play.
  
  Other impressing thing was that game come thorough quite quick since MW released, and that makes 
 us to hope and suggest that we are just about to have some thing new from EA games right by the 
 end of Carbon will be a bit relaxed from gamers pressure. You know what I am saying.
  
  Well, at least I hope that EA games wont let us to get bored. Enjoy this wonderful GT racing game 
 and make you way to glory through tough street racing war. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kinan_M
Rating: 7.2
Date: Dec 1, 2006 6:24 pm PT
Review:  As the introduction of the game has been done by many and need not be repeated, the writer took 
 the liberty of leaving that to the imagination, and chose to discuss everything but the story. 
 With so many games in the series already, it is almost inevitable that we compare later additions 
 to the long running lineage of video games to it's predecessors. Need for Speed Carbon (NFS Carbon) , 
 many gamers would probably compare to Most Wanted, released last year. As one would expect, EA 
 took many of the game elements from that game and threw them into Carbon and added a few more to 
 the mix. The latest addition that stands out the most is the return of the drift races. The long, 
 curved tracks where you, hopefully, manage to swerve and slide around corners (which strangely 
 enough you cannot do in a normal race) and not that you constantly hug the wall. Canyon races are 
 an actual new addition to the series of races, though. Long, winding slopes leading down to the 
 bottom of the valley. Here you have two rounds. One where you chase the car (usually a boss) in 
 front of you to gather points. Should you manage to get in front of the car you're chasing, you 
 get a 10 second timer. When that expires you win. If you don't, you still collect points while 
 getting as close to the guy's rear bumper as you can. These points you need for round two. That's 
 when you take the lead and try to get away from the chasing car behind you. At the end of the second 
 round it'll be clear who has been the better chaser and appointed winner. Also new, the crew members. 
 While fun and a new little gimick, they could've been worked out better, as they feel like both 
 a blessing and a curse. Many a race can be won because of them, but just as many may as well be 
 lost because your buddy just so happened to swerve in front of you accidentally and cost you the 
 race. There's three different ones. The Scout: a fast driver looking for the shortcuts ahead of 
 you. The drafters, providing you with a minor speed boost as you hang behind them and draft along, 
 and can give you a minor boost when you disengage them. Lastly, the blocker. A car specialized 
 in taking out the enemies in front and behind you. While the idea is good, it could have been worked 
 out better. The blocker for instance is only really useful for keeping opponents behind you when 
 you're in first place rather than knocking out the opponents in front of you so you can get first 
 place. The scout isn't really needed as it is easy enough to recognize the shortcuts after playing 
 for a while and noticing the signs, and the drafter gives too little boost and is more of a pain 
 during turns than it is a help. As soon as you leave their draft, your car'll most likely steer 
 straight into the wall of that sharp turn and will allow everyone behind you to pass if you're 
 not careful. Police has also returned in the same manner as in Most Wanted. Five levels of heat 
 and they got most of their tools from the previous game as well. Most? Yeah, most. Since the helicopter 
 seems to have vanished and in Carbon it is that much harder to get away from them than it was in 
 Most Wanted. This because, unlike in Most Wanted, the police seemingly manage to keep on bringing 
 in more and more backup as the heat levels progress and at level five it is nigh impossible to 
 escape as the road's littered with white corvette's, spike strips, road blocks and those nice and 
 big SUV's. There's no catching your breath and there's too little pursuit breakers to actually 
 get a chance at getting away. Gameplay in general feels good. The cars respond well, in relation 
 to their handling setting and the first few races are pretty easy. Logically, it gets harder and 
 harder, up to a point where you're never sure whether you can win a race or not. Also like in Most 
 Wanted, the level of difficulty varies per race and at around 70-75% completion, the game becomes 
 hard enough up to the point where it gets annoying. Not just cops, but the fact that you're most 
 likely stuck in a so called tier 2 car. (there's 3 in total) , and your opponents are driving cars 
 of the next tier. Makes for both interesting races and annoying ones. Graphics and sound are purely 
 subjective to the player's own experiences. Nonetheless, the game looks slick. Upping the standard 
 of NFS series once again and while some sounds sound like they were borrowed from Most Wanted, 
 this does not ruin the gameplay experience. In conclusion. The crew was a nice idea but not well 
 executed. They didn't feel useful enough, the canyon races can be both incredibly annoying with 
 their tight turns and the sometimes frustrating inability to actually get in front of your opponent 
 as is usual with racing. The cops can get on your nerves as you approach the game's end but thankfully 
 the cars are still pretty well customizable although it requires you to flip through more menus 
 than you would've had to do in Underground 2 or Most Wanted. Despite it's mistakes though, NFS 
 Carbon is an enjoyable game with some things that could've used smoothing out, but let's not nitpick 
 too much.
  
  Kinan Eldari 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Goda
Rating: 3.5
Date: Dec 1, 2006 11:42 am PT
Review:  Well after 5 min of playing it i new this game sucked But i still played it and gave it a shot 
 to impress me 2 hours latter you know what it still sucked,
  The grafs are ok But game play Come on Guys passing this junk off on people for 39.95 Please i 
 would not pay even 15.99 for this game,
  Now to tell you all why. First off ON the PC game play is slow trying to turn the car around a 
 corner JOKE unless you use the slowmo takeing from the game FEAR, The cars are kinda cool But cool 
 dont make a good game.
  The drifter part is good Props to that But over all the game gets 2 Big Fat thumbs down.
  
 
  Better luck with your next game guys.
  
  PS Try making a game like NFS underground 2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xts3
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 30, 2006 3:33 pm PT
Review:  Need for speed Carbon basicaly continues the story from Need for speed most wanted, so if you haven't 
 played most wanted you'll be a little lost at first but you'll figure it out the gist of it as 
 you play..
  
  If you've played Need for speed before, and enjoyed Underground series and Most wanted, then you'll 
 be a bit disappointed with Carbon, its basically an expansion pack to most wanted, and I really 
 mean that. So you're getting more of the same thing... but there's even less. That's the bad part.
 
  
  The tracks are well designed but there is not enough road or diversity in the city, it feels much 
 smaller then the city in NFS Underground 2 and even most wanted.
  
  So what's different in Carbon compared to Most wanted? Car selection has taken a turn for the worse, 
 in that there are less of them unless you're willing to buy unlocks from EA's site, for a dollar 
 a piece.... which is certainly a rip-off after charging you money to buy the game! Many of the 
 same cars that were in Most wanted or Underground series make a re-appearance in Need for speed 
 carbon.
  
  Not much has been added. They've added a few new gametypes to multiplayer modes. But over all, 
 if you've played most wanted or Underground 2, you'll feel like this game is basically an expansion 
 pack to Most wanted using an enhanced version of Underground 2's graphics engine. You're basically 
 paying for Need for speed Underground 2, with a facelift and some cutscene inserts they tacked 
 on to connect NFS Carbon with most wanted.
  
  There is really not much new at all in single player, you have only 4 basic standard races: Circuit, 
 Drift, Sprint, canyon, standard boss races, and Checkpoint (formerly: Toll booth races in most 
 wanted) .
  
  I do appreciate that they tried to do something diifferent by adding AI partners. Blockers that 
 can block other racers, 'scouts' that can show you the secret (and not so secret) shortcuts on 
 the tracks, and drafters, you get behind them hit the button and get a boost of speed. But over-all 
 they fall flat because the implementation suffers from poor AI and most races are si short you 
 don't really get to benefit from your AI partners all that much, although they DO help in one respect, 
 if they win the race YOU win, which is definitely a bonus.
  
  Your AI buddies like drafters and sometimes blockers are difficult to use simply because you have 
 to pretty much either be in an obvious position to use them, or constantly looking at the map to 
 see if your bone-headed partner is even far enough ahead to be useful. Lastly you cannot change 
 the types of cars they use or their parts, which will probably frustrate a lot of gamers out there.
 
  
  So the 3 types of AI partners the give you are:
  
  1. Blockers block other racers and take them out on you command.
  
  2. Drafters run in front 
 of you to provide you with a slingshot boost of speed when you use them.
  
  3. Scouts find shortcuts for you and leave a nice rainbow colored trail and map updates so you 
 can see where the shortcuts are once they are taken after the first lap.... only drawback is they 
 reset, so when a scout marks a shortcut it no longer marks it for all races on that track.
  
  Graphics...
  
  The only new things are minor additions to modifying the look of your car, 
 that's basically it, and even they feel like the were unfinished, and basically taken from underground 
 2. Hardly any new art work was done in terms of decals, etc... I really wish they'd open up Need 
 for speed underground to the mod community and make it easy to import models, textures, custom 
 decals, etc. EA's artists over time simply can't compete with user made stuff!
  
  There are some interesting features like auto sculpt, where you can sculpt mathematically pre-modelled 
 parts the artists have made. They allow you to have e a limited amount of control over their sizes 
 and shapes according to the prefabricated parts and prefabbed range of parameters of the different 
 autosculpt pieces... but....
  
  The selection of pieces you can modify is VERY limited (boneheaded move by EA) , while the selection 
 of non-modifiable pieces is quite a bit larger.
  
  Lastly, if you've seen Fast and the Furious 3 Tokyo Drift, you know exactly what Need or speed 
 carbon is all about, the game DIRECTLY lifts all the same stuff from the movie Fast and the furious 
 3: Tokyo drift, it's insane, they have the Camero and/or Dodge charger that was in the movie in 
 carbon. The game will feel a little weird if you've seen Tokyo drift and played Most wanted, since 
 they lift so much material from Tokyo drift. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: susey
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 30, 2006 4:21 am PT
Review:  NFS Carbon is not a carbon copy but really a fantastic game . Interesting to play. The way they 
 have paved the route is very nice and awesome. Also the continuity of the gam depends on the win 
 of the previous game is also something creative. All NFS games I had played and this is also the 
 best among the others. I am great fan of NFS. Their graphics, sound effects, all make me to wait 
 for their next release. Also I review, read, discuss all about games in Gamepsot website which 
 they are doing their best to the customers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krazyorange
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 29, 2006 12:32 pm PT
Review:  I refused to buy Carbon. The first time I saw a TV ad, during Monday Night Football about a month 
 ago, I thought it was the stupidest idea. Great, I just got over Most Wanted, now I'm being bombarded 
 by yet another EA racing title. Fantastic.
  
  However, I got it. Why? I don't have any idea. Ten games of Madden a week just isn't cutting it 
 (although my fantasy draft is ludicrous) . So I load it up and greeted by yet another generic EA 
 safety vid with a hot brunette and their catchy CG mockup of live-action FMV. I was so close to 
 packing up and putting it on the shelf right next to Area 51. But I persevered.
  
  Now I'm having dreams about Need For Speedcrackcocaine. The new territory system involves me far 
 more, and keeps the  NFS formula entertaining. Players vie for territories 
 via winning races and defend territory in the same manner.
  
  Wingmen add a new dimension to the NFS gameplay, adding a semi-controllable shadow car, with commands 
 such as knock that car out or find me a shortcut, depending on the type of wingman.
  
  Autosculpt is by far my favorite feature. It allows players to customize parts on their cars, for 
 example making the bumper longer or wider, or placing a roof scoop wherever they please. It will 
 definitely prolong online play, with every car being truly unique.
  
  The graphics and sound are virtually unchanged, although the game stays within the night setting, 
 so far ignoring Most Wanted's daytime Califronia-esque country roads - fine by me.
  
  Overall, Carbon is my favorite NFS yet, but that is relative to NFS games. It would score much 
 higher, except this exact same thing has been done three times before (NFSU, NFSU2, MW) and it 
 is getting a little old. However, this is one purchase I do not regret. Congrats EA, you got me 
 again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xp_celik
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 29, 2006 8:52 am PT
Review:  And in most times gamers would like to have a better version than the last one, in wich case this 
 was not .I tourns out to have better graphics then msot wanted as expected but the game is very 
 short and that is a big minus The time that changes from day to night in most wanted in carbone 
 we won't see. EA did not make any step forvard with this game in nfs gamplay, i am sorry to disapoint 
 the fans of NFS
  EA should really take more time before relising any game that would be to short. The length of 
 compliting the game should be one of the most things that makes it more fun to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BaronPwent
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 29, 2006 12:13 am PT
Review:  NFS: C could have been a much better game especially after Most Wanted. While making substantial 
 improvements in several areas, Carbon takes a step back in others.
  
  Graphics
  The graphics are on par and are definitely pleasing. The city is expansive and wonderfully rendered. 
 The cars themselves as always look magnificant especially after some aftermarket modifications. 
 One of the new additions to Carbon is the autosculpt feature. It allows you to custom sculpt certain 
 features of a part such as enlarging or shrinking a roof scope. Bending and resizing various pieces 
 to give your car a unique feel is a nice feature but isn't quite expansive enough espeically when 
 compared to the stunning visuals of some of the aftermarket parts such as the body kits. The addition 
 of some new paint types such as a candy is also a nice addition.
  
  Sound
  The roar of engines and the squeel of tires are as audible as ever... to the point of being overpowering. 
 At default settings, the sound effects will easily drown out the background sound track. It will 
 take some tweaking to get the volume levels to a point you personally enjoy. The sound track features 
 a solid selection but most of the tracks are less then memorable. Carbon could have used a touch 
 more diversity in the artists used.
  
  Gameplay
  The gameplay is still at the core the same as all NFS games. Run fast and win. Nitrous and speedbreaking 
 both return. The new addition comes in the form of crew. In some races you can use a crew member 
 to run as a wingman. The wingman gauge will charge just like nos and speedbreaking. Your wingman 
 will serve as a blocker, a scout, or a drafter. Its a nice feature that holds little impact in 
 later races and for the most part seems somewhat unimportant.
  
  The cops in Carbon are more tenacious then ever. Pursuits are longer and far more difficult to 
 end then in Most Wanted. Its a nice feature but can be frustrating during a race to suddenly have 
 cops trying to stop you.
  
  The storyline progresses along a rather pointless plot. Yet, the game runs along the concept of 
 taking over turf. Complete enough races in a given sector and you take over. Its a rather meaningless 
 yet amusing feature especially since you can name your crew and select your symbol. Yet, while 
 winning turf you may have to defend it as well. Defensive runs are extremely annoying and basically 
 come down to running a race you previously won against tougher competition.
  
  If defensive races are annoying, then the return of drifting is outright agony. Drifting in Carbon 
 essentially turns your usually responsive machine into a skidding uncontrolable monstrosity. If 
 I was to say the controls for drifting in Carbon sucked, I would be too kind. Thankfully, the layout 
 of the races is such that you can avoid drifting and still take over turf and progress in the game. 
 For the most part, none of the important performance upgrades are tied to drift runs either.
  
  The new type of race making its debut is the canyon run. These races are chase races along 
 twisting turning canyons. You can't use nos and you can't use speedbreaking and your crew is nowhere 
 in sight. Its a race entirely of skill. You chase your opponent down the canyon and then he chases 
 you. Whoever does a better job of chasing is the winner. These runs are the only way to defeat 
 a boss and conquer their turf completely. If you do win, you have a chance to win the pink slip 
 to their car. There aren't many of these chances so be prepared to save some cash and buy a new 
 ride when your two random selections don't reward you with that pink slip.
  
  Sadly, drag racing is absent. In its place are random street sprints. While riding around in free 
 roam, you will occassionally be challenged by a rival. If you accept you select a finish line and 
 first one there wins. Its rather pointless and the reward is rather trivial. Too bad you don't 
 have the option to race them for slips.
  
  Value
  The game is much shorter then Most Wanted especially since you can skip 20% of the races and still 
 finish. The game is pointlessly elongated by the defensive races. Its further elongated by seperating 
 the game into three types based on car type: tuner, muscle, and exotic. Overall there just doesn't 
 feel like there is as much game play to Carbon.
  
  Tilt
  Carbon is a hit or miss kind of game. If you actually enjoy drifting, you will probably get a lot 
 more out of it. If your a dragster kind of person, you will lament the absence in Carbon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slayer_Sam
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 28, 2006 10:51 am PT
Review:  Need For Speed is a constantly evolving racing series. It began as just simple track racing, but 
 evolved from that, to a game with daring police chases, to an amazing dive into the world of street 
 racing. Since its turn to street racing it has been constantly becoming more and more refined, 
 and every year the game does not fail to impress.
  
  Carbon is a further expansion of Need For Speeds turn to street racing. It is set in a sort of 
 sprawling urban metropolis as most of the more recent Need For Speed games are. What many might 
 notice in Carbon, is that it takes after the movie Fast and The Furious: Tokyo Drift in a huge 
 way. With that, be ready to dive into a world filled with street racing crews battling for territory 
 and respect as you begin to explore Carbon. Carbon has a special edge in the graphics department. 
 The city comes to life as the lights shine across the skyline of the city. The cars you own become 
 intricately woven masterpieces of art with the amazing car graphics and aftermarket modifications. 
 Online when youre racing, you can be sure you wont ever see the exact same car twice. With a nice 
 beautiful high resolution (whatever your computer can handle, that is) you can see all the beauty 
 and glory of the night as you race around a city lit up by thousands of neon lights. Your car will 
 leave just the slightest light trail as you blast around a corner and the screen blurs for effect 
 of speed. Youll skid across the ground and the ground will show the marks of your cars recent 
 brush with it. Overall, the graphics do not fail to impress, but I did expect a bit more from them. 
 So Dont dis this game...... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BLAZZING
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 27, 2007 8:04 am PT
Review:  Need For Speed Carbon totally follow the Juised. After played Juised i think so. Carbon should 
 follow it's own path, not other. I mean NFS series.
  The main thing is first time i really like Carbon but after 1 hour it's totally boring to me. NFS 
 series must do something new, not apply previous method again &amp; again. That will be a great 
 mistake for them. They should understand from past,
  NFS Underground got up to 8
  NFS Underground got below 7
  NFS Most Wanted got 8.4
  NFS Carbon got 7.6
  
  This is the 
 10th series of NFS &amp; they should not do something like novice 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Peter_Eater
Rating: 5.8
Date: Nov 27, 2006 11:38 pm PT
Review:  The NFS series are all games to have fun with, basically an arcade type games. But with Most Wanted 
 they approached the simulation game quality as far as the control and physics are concerned. What 
 I expected from Carbon , was the evolution, further in that direction. I expected to see the removal 
 of the catch-up AI, and application of physics to opponents too, not just player car. That obviously 
 didn't happen. At first glance I was thrilled with the 3 different classes, and 3 different tiers 
 of cars. Finally you couldn't beat a Porche Carrera GT with Golf GTI. That is, besides the autosculpt 
 and vinyl customization feature, the only highlihgt of this game. The 3 classes thing went down 
 the tubes, as soon as I tried tier 2 muscle cars. It was like playing a pinball game with a rocket. 
 The sheer lack of control is ridiculous. And then came the first canyon race. Now comes the most 
 irritating feature of this game (at least for me) . The CDC cr*ppy dynamic camera as I like to refer 
 to it. It is the single most game -destroying feature in this game. It always makes me overdo the 
 the turn, or not turn enough, hit walls... This game really should have been left without it.
 
  As for graphics, they're quite nice, except the really badly done motion blur.
  
  So, to conclude: this game, though fun to play, is nothing special comparing to other NFS games, 
 and certainly not worth the $$ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: miki-725
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 27, 2006 9:05 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game!!! The graphics are cool, new features and it just blows you away... Play 
 the game guys - it worth it....... It has features like being a cop on online playing. I just loved 
 the game and played it for a week and I had a lot of fun. The difficulty is ok except the last 
 canyon race, that is a little bit difficult, but still ok. I suggest you get the game as soon as 
 possible and play it..... It really rocks the cars. The only think i think would be great is having 
 a wheels for the game, the experience totally changes...... I suggest you get one pair and pair 
 with them. Thanks for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bcelmo
Rating: 5.7
Date: Nov 27, 2006 3:39 pm PT
Review:  Played it, hate it!
  During the last 10 years i have played all NFS games on PC and some on the consoles. Starting with 
 NFS 1 and now Carbon. I can say that this is the second worst in the series, even if it`s not a 
 bad game in itself. It just doesn`t fit the name Need for Speed.
  First of all, whats good about it: american muscle cars. I have been waiting a long time for a 
 NFS game to have this. I like this and gg EA for this. Second: a lot of european cars. Third: graphics 
 are pretty good as technology. But thats it!
  Gameplay: there is nothing i hate in this game more than gameplay. This was suposed to be an arcade 
 racer that gives you the sensation of speed, takes you through cool places, lets you make acrobatic 
 and cool moves with your car and can be controled easy. Well, carbon has nothing from that ... 
 the game is frustrating from begining to the end - steering is hard, braking is hard, oponent s 
 almost never hit a wall or trafic and if they get in front of you it`s very very hard to catch 
 up. Traffic is set up in a specific way so that it comes on the normal way you would take, there 
 are objects that will stop you from going ahead almost around every corner . Oponents almost always 
 stay in front of you blocking your way and so do your drafters and sometimes blockers . With this 
 game EA did not understand that people buy there NFS games to have fun not to be frustrated. I 
 have played Hot Pursuit, Underground 1 and 2 and Most Wanted on my PC with a 2 analog sticks gamepad, 
 as i am always playing racing games. This games i wasn`t able to do it, had to play with the keyboard 
 to have a chance of winning.
  Tech: the game plays ok with AA 2x, AF 1024x768 Visual Treatment High and Particle System off, 
 constant 30 fps on a pretty low specs PC (AMD Athlon64 3200+, 1GB ram, Ati x700Pro) . However there 
 are times when framerate drops very low, around 20 fps for a second which is pretty damn frustrating 
 in the middle of the race. I have tried lowering graph settings and found out that even if i am 
 able to get 45 fps with same settings but 800x600 the game still has the framerate drop issue. 
 Don`t understand me bad - framerate drops are pretty rare. However, as the graphics don`t strike 
 me as way better, or even just better than Most Wanted, it plays worse on a system that could run 
 Most Wanted in 65fps with no drops. As graphical style i was never a fan of night racers, so i 
 don`t really like it, i prefer sunny Most Wanted or Hot Pursuits 2 mountain views.
  All in all i consider Carbon the second worst NFS game ever after Porsche, the least fun to play 
 if you are looking for arcade racing (again after Porsche) and most frustrating one but not a bad 
 game. Buy it if u like midnight driving, if u have a few hours to finish career and can swallow 
 a big change in driving mechanics. If you consider Hot Pursuit 2 or Most Wanted the best in the 
 series, better rent it first
  Enjoy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazed_2300
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 27, 2006 8:42 am PT
Review:  The game was good.... not as good as NFS Most Wanted.... Not that much different from the first 
 one added the drifting which is pretty good.. Cop chases are not as easy cause it isnt like alot 
 of roads that are like in Most wanted where you had the highways.... Some put to much hype into 
 the game but really shouldnt have cause wasnt better than the first one.... Now i am just going 
 to fill up the rest of the 100  
 ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ImpaledDecade
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 26, 2006 3:38 pm PT
Review:  Need for speed Most Wanted was... at best, entertaining. NFSU, NFSU2, and NFSMW seemed more focused 
 on import cars. I almost wet my pants when I was looking at the carlist and saw 1968 Camaro SS 
 , I think I did a tripletake on that. So, I bought the game and installed it. Theres 3 classes 
 of cars, you're everyday import Tuner cars, good old American muscle cars, and exotics. I wasn't 
 thrilled much by the tuners or exotics, but muscle cars... oooooh boy. First race I did I smoked 
 the AI with the starting muscle car, the 1968 Camaro SS. I decided to play some more and i'm towards 
 the end of the game with a Ford GT and a Dodge Charger RT. Though, the most fun car to drive in 
 my opinion is the 2006 Camaro Concept car, avaiable in the collectors addition. I loved how that 
 thing handled, fast acceleration, top speed of 182mph, and I was able to tap the e-brake at turns 
 and end up at a 90 degree angle with a decent bit of speed ready to burn rubber.
  
  Gameplay: Its a racing game, they're best played on consoles, but I prefer mah PC. The cop chases, 
 I hate... feel like they take FOREVER.
  
  Graphics: -drool- They're good, nice and purdy with maximum details, AA off and AF filtering.
 
  
  Sound: The rumble of the muscle cars... the weeeee weeeee of the tuner cars, and the odd sounds 
 of the exotics actually fit the cars.
  
  Value: Its good. I recommend rent before you buy if you're gonna get the console version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pmo8825
Rating: 3.3
Date: Nov 26, 2006 10:13 am PT
Review:  Been a NFS fan for years. This has to be the hardest advanced level career play I have ever faced. 
 Reasonably tricked out Tier 3 tuner and can't even come close to beating most of the final territory. 
 Spent hours trying a couple of them and best I could do was 3rd place. Very frustrating!
  
  Haven't tried the online or non career races yet. May give it a try but I'm not holding me breath.
 
  
  Graphics are typical NFS. Good but not fantastic. Runs easilly on my X850 AGP vid card at max settings. 
 Game stability is a bit lacking. Crashes to desktop often with no explanation ususlly during a 
 load. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neoincubus
Rating: 6.8
Date: Nov 25, 2006 5:11 am PT
Review:  When I first saw preview of NFS: C I was pretty pleased to be aware of sequel to excellent Most 
 Wanted. When I first launched demo of Carbon reaction was good. Solid game, some innovations, upgraded 
 graphics etc.
  And the time to check actual game has cometh... It was really fun, music creating neat mood, fine 
 graphics, once again cool actors on CG backgrounds and so on. But something wasn't quite good. 
 The game is easy. But when you will get used to it, Carbon attacks you with quite unbalanced cars 
 and AI, they still aren't better than you, but too fast for your car even if your monster is upgraded 
 to max performance. Weird one.
  I've noticed few minor graphical glitches but... It really doesn't matter.
  Autosculpt is really 
 fun but it appears to me as some kind of detail, not much of a revolution, but still very good 
 add-on.
  Wingman? Haven't used them much, they were pretty useless. It's a matter of opinion but I haven't 
 found them useful... Worth mentioning is that you can use one wingman, but your oponents are driving 
 in teams of three. It doesn't matter if you attack territory or defend. Well it matters a little. 
 When you defend you ride solo... But not your opponents. How can we name it?...
  But let's not drag about it. Last but not least thing I want to mention is really weird situation...
 
  When you own three districts, gangs will attack you from time to time. Not really often, and it's 
 not too much of a problem. But when you start to get to Darius' rear bumper they get some kind 
 of morale boost and attack you almost every single race. It's quite boring and force players to 
 sit in front of screen repeating over and over some races. It's isn't as bad as it appears but 
 the next one is...
  Surprisingly, even if you beat some of them earlier, right now they got really high performance 
 boost on their cars and skills. Like... Bruce Banner -&gt; Hulk.
  After few races it started to irritate me. Really not fun at all.
  And what about Palmont City? 
 It's damn small... Too small and some places are similar to Most Wanted.
  But it isn't bad game at all. It has neat graphics, fine music, canyons are pretty sweet and have 
 great mood. Gameplay is fast paced, dynamic, flashy, elegant and in overall leaks with honey but 
 flaws I mentioned are forcing me to post score no more than 7. But if you don't care about them, 
 add about 1 up to 1,5 to score cause it's not worth more than that no matter how much you love 
 it, don't get blinded with your love.
  Cheers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: karnik69
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 25, 2006 1:08 am PT
Review:  NFS Carbon is very good in graphics and gameplay, excellent type of races but it's so short that 
 i finished it in 2 days. The part of game that impress me is the way you race against the master 
 of each region..!
  Another part that is new in this type of game is the idea of having a crew of different type of 
 racers and specialists that can help you in the races and make the tuning of your car more interesting 
 by moding bodykits, spoilers and more, the most helpful type of crew member during a race is the 
 scout!!!! I only wish this game wasn't so SHORT!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: homersimpsons
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 24, 2006 4:59 pm PT
Review:  When i first got the game. i knew it was gonna rock all of the nfs's so far. but i was proved wrong. 
 the gameplay isnt the best the cars feel, like trucks. the story isnt too bad. could have a bit 
 more intresting parts in this one. more challenges in the career mode. i found it quite boring 
 half way through, so story should of been shaped up a bit more. GRAPHICS. im quite suprised with 
 the graphics to be honest. because i was expected it to be quite apaulling, but it doesnt look 
 to bad. on full graphics of course. if your computer cannot run it on full graphics, you certainly 
 wont get the full look of the game. I have goto to say about the enviroment, its quite shody in 
 places. compared to the x360 version, it looks more detailed, looks more alive. and not just a 
 background. but not every pc game is perfect.
  Uprgrades, there are plenty of them, enough stuff to keep you occupied. The new autoscript option, 
 certainly gives you more on how your car should look. more individuality. so not every looks the 
 same. with the same body kits, rims...... so it's your own individual car. Sound i goto say its 
 not as good as NFSMW. because every car kinda sounds the same with the same stage upgrades. so 
 im not happy with that..... but i would still recommend the game. but NFS carbon does still have 
 its good points. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: onurta
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 24, 2006 1:58 am PT
Review:  Take Most Wanted and Underground and you get Carbon. I must admit that, I wasnt expecting much 
 fun from this before the release, but it is typical NFS formula working very well.
  Police chases do not add much to the experience this time, feeling useless most of the time. Newly 
 added is the boss canyon chases, and this is by far the best addition to the series. You might 
 be playing the same race over and over again in these, but once you get the hang of it, it is pure 
 fun.
  Overall the game is easy, but there are many things to unlock after finishing career mode. There 
 were some minor bug issues with the retail version, but a patch is now available.
  If you like the series, do not miss it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VW2k
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 23, 2006 11:55 am PT
Review:  Not a very good game. But it will satisfy the fans of the series. Is a little too short. He is 
 not that immersive like the other games in the series. On the other hand is better than Most Wanted. 
 EA worked alot at puting the minimum system requirements lower than in Most Wanted.
  The need for speed series has to get an end. But EA refuses to end this serie. It is 10 games now 
 and they reall shoul stop making another need for speed like most wanted and carbon. These are 
 forced on the market just make money. I hate EA here.
  It is worth playing it as a conclusion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Przesmiewca
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 23, 2006 10:08 am PT
Review:  When I got this game I was like YAY, new NFS . I've played many racing games both arcade and realistic 
 and was looking for another cool arcade...
  
  After installation and running it I was totally lost. First you're given what's going on??? intro, 
 then you have to (as they say) choose car that will have strong impact on your career in game. 
 Well, that's not the best thing to do to a new player. I've chosen Exotics, because I think I can 
 play racing games and looking at description, this car was proper for me. You also have to participate 
 in some kind of tutorial race - you're instantly informed about some blockers, scouts, drafters 
 and at first it's too fast - you don't know what's going on and lots of info is given. More, if 
 you do something not right , for example drive too fast, you have to repeat it... Then come some 
 reward cards - another thing you have no idea about... Ok, Start was pretty rough, but perhaps 
 game will explain itself later...
  
  After a few races you know what whole game is about, how to play etc. Plot... well, I'm not a great 
 fan of putting plot in racing games. It's cheesy, but acceptable. You win one race after another... 
 and... soon you find that you completed like 20% of the career, which is bad - game is short indeed.
 
  When I was playing NFS: Most Wanted, when new car was available, I simply used to build one outside 
 career, test and if it was better, went back to career to get $$$ to buy it and upgrade. Here it's 
 different - when you complete a race, you get close to no cash for completing it again. So you 
 don't buy a new car but use old as long as you can.
  You can win a car from a boss , but it's not certain - so because of $$$ problems, a common practice 
 is to just close game and repeat the race again and again till you win that car. It's really uncool.
 
  Is problem with getting new car really a problem? No, not really, and that's why: this game is 
 way too easy. Car classes are uneven, so when I started with exotic, it didn't seem to be that 
 easy... It changed after I won RX-7 in the second area. Cars are divided into 3 categories: Tier 
 1, 2, 3, where 1 is the worst, 3 the best. It's an interesting thing, as it prevents thing I hated 
 in NFS: Underground - VW Golf beating Skyline R-34, and similar situations.
  
  Interesting thing are these 3 helpers - you choose one of them to help you with a race (you can't 
 use them for some races) . I'll start with a Drafter - this helper is supposed to be in front of 
 you, creating some kind of wind tunnel to help you gain speed - it does not work, because computer 
 driving skills are really bad. Blocker is interesting - when Blocker is active, you can give an 
 order to hit some opponent to slow him down - pretty cool. Scout is pretty weird - drives in front 
 of you and looks for shortcuts, occasionally slowing down to almost stop, so you could hit his 
 (and later hers) bumper. Sounds useless? No, it's really useful. 1. He helps you with finding shortcuts. 
 2. He cheats. Yeah, when scout is far behind, he can gain insane speed, to catch up. Computer Scout 
 is simply cheating. So if you have problems with completing speedtrap races, simply hit your Scout 
 to slow down in such way he catches up just on speedtrap. Huge speed granted - he'll win for you. 
 Of course you can win for yourself easily in most cases.
  
  So far this game doesn't look that bad and at this point it's pretty cool. But problem is that 
 it's not very far from end... When I won RX-7 (tier 2) , I upped it to max and completed rest of 
 game with it, including final boss race. Audi LeMans Vs Tier 2 Mazda RX-7. Sounds impossible? It's 
 just pretty difficult, but really doable. Then I bought Corvette just for fun and the race was 
 brutally trivial.
  
  My GF, who is pretty unexperienced in racing games (like one-2 evening on NFS: Most Wanted) , completed 
 whole 1st area with stock Camaro. She had to repeat a few races, but it was pretty straightforward. 
 She didn't win a car from 1st boss, so she repeated it several times to get pink slip. There was 
 not even a single try on this boss race when she failed. That shows only how easy this game is.
 
  
  When you complete career (doable in 1 evening) , you can eventually play challenge series, but except 
 for police chases, it's pretty easy... Well, you'd have to learn how to drift. Drift is pretty 
 exciting in this part, but it's the only thing that lasts for longer...
  
  This game is not even close to NFS: Most Wanted. Virtually no police races and computer is so bad 
 that even when uses significiently better cars (like Corvette Vs RX-7) , you'll still going to catch 
 up and pass after a few turns - computer virtually stops there.
  
  So perhaps this game is rather about multiplayer? No it's not. If you learn how to drive, it's 
 not cool. If you're already good, it's even worse. After a few races you find which car is better 
 - it will be obvious that this particular car is better than that. Driving model is really simple 
 - no challenge at all - it's boring.
  To compare, multiplayer in Juiced (better arcade racing game) is completely different. Fast RWD 
 cars are difficult to drive - one mistake and you end spinning and hitting the wall, while some 
 are slower, but easier to handle. I loved to play with my friend - I was taking Viper, he Skyline. 
 From the start to the very last second we were both praying - me to take perfectly every single 
 apex, while he to make me loose control over my car and land on the wall. It wasn't like choose 
 the best car and win . Gaming experience was intense for whole race time. In NFS: Carbon, there's 
 no such thing. It's really dull.
  
  Hardware requirements, sound and graphics:
  Graphics is really nice - I think that some in-game cutting scenes may even look better than prerendered. 
 I have Barton 2500+ @ 2.2GHz, 2gb of RAM and heavily overclocked GeForce 6200. Game was smooth 
 at 800x600, everything maxed but antialiasing (none) and no motion blur. I haven't tried higher 
 resolutions, but speed should still be acceptable. Car models look really cool. Autosculpt is really 
 interesting - you can partially design your car bumpers, skirts, hood and wheels. Sound - car engine 
 sound really well. Turbos, superchargers and muscle car (and some exotics) engines sound in the 
 way you feel how they transform petrol into speed.
  My overall impression on how this game looks and sounds is really good. Graphics score would be 
 like 8.5, but I give it another +1.5 for being so smooth on my aging computer. Too bad that it 
 doesn't change the fact this game is boring...
  
  I wrote this a little too long article, to let you know what you might expect from this game. I 
 don't recommend buying it. It's not worth the money. Single-player is too short and too easy, Multi 
 is just boring. I'm installing Juiced again and waiting for new good arcade racing games for PC... 
 If you still intend to buy it, better rent it first or asks friends who got it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xpalman
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 22, 2006 11:29 am PT
Review:  the first nfs game i played was underground and it was simply great, when underground 2 came out 
 i couldnt stop playing it... it was just perfect. Most wanted did not buy it but played it and looked 
 great aswell (even better then the other 2) but carbon... its another story.
  First of all the new graphical designing ea introduced is crap... u can experience it in Fifa 07 
 (they basically used the same type of graphs for carbon) . Carbon is short first of all, after a 
 day (like 5hrs of playtime i had already reached 40% of career, and its not me that im a psycho 
 pc addictive guy, everyone believes it was short) . Back to graphics i first ran nfsu and nfsu2 
 on an nvidia geforce 4mx 64mb and graphics were just perfect, no cramming or anything just the 
 best of the best. Now im running carbon on an ATI radeon x1600 256mb and graphics are even worst 
 than from the 64mb (couldnt be the vga since if u understand anything of them u can see its a good 
 vga and should do its work with a 64mb min req) apart from that even when u run it at maximum... they 
 r nothing extroirdinary. So far i did not see so much new cars released apart from the muscle cars.
 
  In my opinion carbon was just released for commercial purpuses... still play it you'll see its 
 true, by this ea is risking since it may lose alot of customers by releasing such game (in my oppinion) . 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkfear2222
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 22, 2006 9:51 am PT
Review:  When I played the demo of NFS: Carbon, I was disappointed at choppy graphics and horrible frame 
 rate, Thankfully it was only a demo and the real game proves to be much more stable and smooth 
 with smooth delightful graphics. Watching the street lights reflect off the shine of the car, nice 
 particle effects to give you a better sense of speed and the road gloss was a little disorienting 
 because it looked so good. Although the Motion Blur option made the game look incredible while 
 racing down the road at high speeds, I turned it off to make racing a little easier and give me 
 a few more frames for smoother gameplay. The sound was great with the whining of my Lamborghini 
 Gallardo in my ears and the screeching of the tires as I drift around the sharpest bends, Not much 
 to say about the music because I personally didnt like the soundtrack so I turned the music volume 
 down and played my own music. As far as gameplay goes, you have the usual police pursuits which 
 can get quite hard since the police vehicles are hard to move and ram, made me feel like I was 
 hitting a brick wall when you rear end one of the cars. The races are very fun and challenging 
 with good AI to keep you on your feet all the time, which helps that they added the Wingman system~ 
 Having a computer controlled racer on your team to either Scout, Block, Draft or just plain take 
 people out of the race helps on those tough races. It is based of a charge that you fill while 
 you drive at high speeds and lasts long enough for your mate to do what he/she needs. For the new 
 gameplay aspects as far as drifting and such I think is some of the most fun parts of the game 
 while drifting a downhill canyon, takes some time to learn but its great after you learn the dynamics 
 of it. I'll end with giving my thoughts on the customization, In NFS: Most Wanted it was great BUT 
 in Carbon, they pushed it a step further to let you auto sculpt your own parts to a degree and 
 really allows you to customize your ride to your exact wishes.
  
  Great game and a must buy for any racing fan! Im sure that I'll be playing it long after I submit 
 this review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fastpunk
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 18, 2007 10:15 am PT
Review:  Another year, another Need for Speed... this time it's the 10th installment in this long running 
 series. Many things have been said about Carbon, mostly bad but I found most of these critics to 
 be excessive and unreal. So let's get down to business.
  
  I'll start with some of the game's features: the story picks up where Most Wanted left off. You 
 drive to this new city called Palmont, a place where the main character raced before but had to 
 leave because of a certain night. As you play through the career mode you find out more and more 
 about that night, and the involvement certain key characters had. NFS Carbon goes back to night 
 driving, like Underground 2, but has much more in common with Most Wanted: the pursuits, the checkpoint 
 races, the speed-traps and the challenge series being all Most Wanted trademarks. The game also 
 features a new drift mode and a slightly different feel to the cars (I find it better than Most 
 Wanted in this regard) .
  
  Need for Speed Carbon has a good implementation of these features, though it could have been better. 
 Sometimes it feels unpolished but it's nothing that will upset you deeply (except drift mode, the 
 older drift was much better) . It's a dynamic game, you get a good feel of speed and the new canyon 
 races are very interesting. The pursuit mode is also very enjoyable, specially because cars don't 
 have those massive burnouts Most Wanted's cars had.
  
  On the technical side things are pretty solid. Graphics are decent and the sound is very nice (surround 
 sound makes for a spectacular experience) . What is most impressive is that NFS Carbon's requirements 
 are lower than Most Wanted. You can get decent frame-rate and image quality even with older hardware... 
 it seems EA finally paid attention to the community. The engine is not without it's down sides 
 though (we're talking about EA after all) , it has some stability problems, hopefully an upcoming 
 patch will solve these issues.
  
  One more thing worth mentioning: there are tons of cars and car parts to unlock. The Reward cards 
 menu will provide some info on what you have to accomplish to unlock the rarest of them, like the 
 BMW M3 GTR (the one from Most Wanted) . These extras raise the game's value a lot.
  
  Need for Speed Carbon is a good game with a lot of enjoyable moments to offer. It's not as good 
 as Most Wanted or Porsche Unleashed but it's still one of series' highlights. If you're searching 
 for a good racing game this is it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madgino
Rating: 6.8
Date: Nov 22, 2006 4:18 am PT
Review:  I enjoyed every version of nfs till now, but from this one I switched to the other side, one that 
 has more critcs than good points.
  
  Not only that the game doesn't bring almost nothing new, but comparing with last games it has less 
 features.
  
  The game is very short and this thing is the only one that makes you wanna finish it, they tried 
 to embed a story in the game but is far, far from inducing any feeling about your character.
  
  Driving is ok, but this is not enough for a good game.
  
  I only tried a drifting race 
 and after seeing how stupid the whole thing is I never tried another one, I avoided free roaming 
 as it's really a waist of time, same as any car customisation that doesn't improve performances.
 
  
  As a final conclusion, this is a big dissapointing, luckily the game is short enought to finish 
 it fast and forget about it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sudantha8527
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 21, 2006 10:33 am PT
Review:  Finally got to play the game that i have been waiting 9 months for. I was so excited to play it 
 and instantly got addicted to it.
  
  The game now focuses on territory conquering and not defeating a blacklist and becoming the notorious. 
 The game is highly addictive, but very short compared to other NFS game the career mode can be 
 done off with about 8 hours, this is short for a racing game. The story is ok, very predictable 
 though, it the conquering of territories that keeps you at the game, also there is more challenge 
 series races and reward cards to win the whole game should keep you entertained for about 14 hours, 
 then the replay value is in the online play where you can build up a rank.
  
  Now we'll move to the good and the bad.
  
  The GOOD: Good graphics engine, what ever computer 
 you played Most Wanted on should be more that enough to play this on, cause the way I see it it 
 asks for less. Good game play from different types of races (the drags have been dropped this time) , 
 the canyon duels are great and something new to look forward to. The sound is great from great 
 car sounds to the tracks in the game. A good story to back the game up, good acting. The car physics 
 are more real now
  
  The BAD: The game is short, sometimes the Boss races can be hard and frustrating (but what is a 
 game without a good challenge?) . Some of us expected the day night world but this is only night, 
 so I miss all the sun glare and other effects from Most Wanted.
  
  Overall the game met my expectations and I was addicted to it for days, and the game sure does 
 give something different for us to look forward to. Wonder what EA is coming up with next? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fahad2mail
Rating: 7.2
Date: Nov 21, 2006 9:06 am PT
Review:  Hmmmm, It seems NFS Carbon has dissepointed us. I think we wanted more from this. At least new 
 crew, canyon racing made a little bit difference but EA games dont make fool gamer like us with 
 this. 1st of all about the story, it is good enough to keep you in track. And EA make the challange 
 series a little bit more complecated. But its ok. Now about graphysics, though its look great on 
 highest level. But it can be more. It seems most wanted can bit the carbon at this subject. Thats 
 y, the games requirement is low than most wanted lol... But its true. The wind blowing graphysics 
 give carbon a cartoon shape. Sound is good. Actually it good enough to keep you on track. Ohh, 
 i forgot about the gameplay. EA trick a little bit in this game. Crew thing included in this game. 
 Hmmm. You have to slect your own crew member during the game. He/she has his/her own car and u 
 can upgrade his/her car tooo. There are 3 kind of crew member in this game. they are blocker, scout, 
 and drifter. Every one serves you in different ways during the race. ya you have to play with your 
 own crew member. Besides, everyone have their own crew members. Like blocker, you can suddenly 
 make your oppenent stop in the road. Scout, can help you with the minimul shortcut to win the race. 
 etc. etc. And offcourse listen what they said, It gives you a more information to win the race. 
 the crew member also give you offline benifites. Like some can give you more extra cash, some can 
 unlock parts etc etc. And offcourse controling an area is a great thing in this game. Ya, when 
 you win enough in one are, you will be controling that area. And when you control all area, the 
 boss will race with you. And 1 thing. NFS never be so easy like Carbon. About Canyon race and drift, 
 they are challanging. But list of all. oh man, it sucks. You hardly need to restart the race to 
 win. The police chase is one of the lol things i ever saw. I think it might be babies drive the 
 car. I really never got waring level 2 during the carrer mode. really lol... But overall, if you 
 are a nfs fan. You must play this game. There are many things that have to unlock, it seems the 
 game is not become Old things early. Have fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arto1223
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 20, 2006 8:55 pm PT
Review:  It took me a while to switch from using a keyboard, but not i have gotten really good at it. I 
 like the fact that they have gone back to the way that NFS underground 1&amp; 2 were played. They 
 kept the police chases from Most Wanted, but brought back drifts and a lot more customization. 
 I haven't spent too much time customizing my car, but there is a whole lot to do, but still not 
 as in-depth as Underground 1&amp;2, but better than Most Wanted. The crew idea is kind of cool 
 I guess, but with a little more thought put into it I bet it'll be more useful in a later installment. 
 In all, this game provides a lot of good solid fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theclint
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 20, 2006 5:15 pm PT
Review:  the game made all other need for speed games look small and uninspired. The beautiful graphics 
 and motion blur make this game look awesome. the controls are much more easier and the game is 
 tilting more towards a burnout genre of racing, a relatively easy racing experience with the jump 
 right in cliche. the game has a different approach to racing other then the underground series 
 and most wanted. To succeed in the game, you need to control territories of other gangs of racers. 
 The new autosculpe feature by ea games, was just totally awesome to play around with, making a 
 truly custom built vehicle. Overall this is a must for gamers who enjoy burnout type games 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nitrous998
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 20, 2006 6:15 am PT
Review:  ok people. heres the deal, nfs carbon comes out and gets bare mixed reviews from players and fairly 
 decent reviews from th magazines and websites. so its kinda hard to judge who is telling the truth.
 
  
  check this,
  
  i think the game is good. not as much variety as in most wanted but definatly lives up to the name. 
 if you liked most wanted, you shouldnt be disappointed.
  
  pros
  -ppl sayin the graphics arnt that great. u gotta take into concideration that the game is set at 
 night so it is hard to have great graphics with only dark colours. personally i fink the graphics 
 arnt bad at all.
  -the sound of the vehicles is great. some cars may sound the same but that is what it is more or 
 less like in life. i actually liked some of the music and the sounds on the boss levels are great. 
 although i see most people do not like them. u gotta have a subwoofer set up to get most out of 
 the games sound.
  -ppl also say the game is arcade like. IF EA WANTED TO MAKE A SIMULATOR, THEY WOULD HAVE!!!!! if 
 u liked the rubberband physics in nfs mw, u'll love this.
  - u got them wicked cgi and real life merged cut scenes. they just add a ton to the experiance. 
 but sadly just like in nfs mw htere werent enough.
  -i loved the crew system in this. u actually feel more immersed in the game when you got a crew 
 member ridin with u and helpin you out.
  
  cons
  -there are no drag races. this was a real hit for me as drags where my favorite race in the old 
 games
  -the game is way to short. trust me if u play semi hardcore, u finish the game in 4 days. and im 
 sayin only about 4 hours per day
  -another con is that those cgi and real life ciematics dont come alot in the game. like before 
 some races eg with the boss battles, a fully cgi movie is shown. the charicters dont look to good 
 in this so it would have been nicer if all o the cutscenes where in that nicer format.
  
  and thats it.
  i have othing else to say.
  
  if you can get passed the cgi some of the music 
 and the length of the game, it is a winner and truly desendant of the nfs family. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aggourodolmas
Rating: 6.7
Date: Nov 19, 2006 11:31 pm PT
Review:  Although we were waiting this title by the time we finished NFS Most Wanted we were just disappointed 
 by this one. The only brand new feature about this title (in my opinion) is the word wingman . 
 The story is a little bit the same, you know, races, earning money, winning cars etc. Thing that 
 we could not ask more from NFS. Of course, we can notice an improvement regarding the game-play 
 and the graphics but still the scenery is the same. Also, the story is too short and the ending 
 is poor. You just have to win the last boss. Nothing else. I think the only thing that keeps this 
 title alive is the fact that you can unlock cars and stuff in carrier mode even though you have 
 finished it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pmmmmp
Rating: 7.9
Date: Nov 19, 2006 12:19 pm PT
Review:  I couldn't wait to install carbon and start playing ... that was how i first felt checking out the 
 screenshots before i bought the game.. EA tried to achieve something great but without proper planning 
 and was in a bit of a hurry to release the game.
  
  Well in short... I just started playing the game and its over... the game is incredibly short compared 
 to the other NFS's released.. I completed 70% of the game in 2hours!! As a game the idea behind 
 it is great... High octane, night traffic, cops and well canyon duels..
  
  The game does crash very often though.. so should wait for EA to release the first patch.
  
 
  Well EA had a clear shot at the goal and just missed it!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Computerbits
Rating: 3.9
Date: Nov 19, 2006 10:16 am PT
Review:  Kid friendly: 10
  Arcade-ish: 10
  Carebear: 10
  Realism: 0
  Graphics: 5
  
  If u like arcade games which takes place in a 100% safe world of carebaer-ism and u dont bother 
 spending a huge amount on hardware to get mid level graphics, then this is the game for you.
  
  The game is kid friendly, like u cant do anything wrong in the game, the car doesnt take any 
 visual damage and it just keeps going no matter what u do to it, even though i selected car damage 
 on in the game setup.
  
  Its totally arcade all the way, you wont be in doubt at any time, that this game was made for consoles 
 and converted to PC.
  The graphics are plain ugly and low res, even in 1600x1200 res at highest settings the game looks 
 crappy.
  
  Im running with a 64bit Sempron 3500+ and a GeForce 6800 (with unlocked pixelpipes) and still i 
 cant run the game in low res (1280x960) unless I set the graphics lvl to medium, and then i even 
 dont get an all time descent framerate.
  
  The cars look like they were modelled by a noob and all the graphics are grainy in general.
  
 
  The realism of the game isnt present in any way, the car behaves as unrealistic as it can ever 
 do in a game (almost) , try and make burn out, ok that works, then turn the wheel on that RWD car 
 and see the care spin around like if a kids hand was controlling it to do so, &acute; the behaviour 
 has no physical realism attached to it at all!
  
  Regarding just about everything, id rather play one of the older NFS games from version 3 and up, 
 until we hit NFS UG, at the UG version everything went wrong, everything important that is, like 
 realism, graphics and son on..
  
  The game itself demands a load of rendering power, maybe if my cpu were able to max out my graphics 
 card id be able to run the game at descent framerates, but it doesnt...
  
  However in games like Oblivion i get desvent framerates with all settings at max and in 1024x768 
 resolution, and thats a game where the graphics are known to be heavy load on the GPU, and it also 
 looks sooo nice too.
  
  So bad programming maybe, crappy graphics and the demand of an expensive gaming rig is what u get 
 with NFS Carbon... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: keanhong_1989
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 19, 2006 3:18 am PT
Review:  Need For Speed Carbon... i would say it as need for speed online.. why??
  because right now u need to play online to unlock some car like Toyota MR2. and the feature of 
 online such as Pursuit knockout and pursuit tag.. is new and good ideas for need for speed and 
 WHY it is not applied in off line game play? The online mode is much nice compare with normal gameplay!!
 
  
  The story is too short and simple.. u can predict the story, unlike Most Wanted which Mia actually 
 is a undercover police.. and at first.. i think Cross will be a disaster for player... but not.. 
 he is nothing except totaled your BMW... What i love is the canyon duel... testing our driving 
 skill to maximum.. cornering.. to speeding.. i love it.. but the computer player's AI is very low.. 
 i can beat every opponent as easy as ABC.. anyway.. the police's AI is improved.. but the police 
 pursuit mode wasn't as excite as MW.. NO Rap Sheet..... haizz
  
  There are many car that can be chosen.. exotic, muscle, and tuner.. and the car is divided to tier.. 
 tier 1 to tier 3.. i love the idea.. a new and good ideas.. and game become interesting when u 
 need to work very hard to unlock item.. like cars, vinyls, spoiler in reward card mode.. The tuning 
 car setup and drift is return.. with much easier mode and more user friendly. The graphics in the 
 game is excellent... shows much improve if compare with underground series (which use night mode) .. 
 The music is great too.. u drive what type of car (exotic, muscle and tuner) .. u will enjoy suitable 
 music and the game also support 5.1 3d surround sound and it benefit me.. :)
  
  If u are NFS' fans, u should buy it and play online.. if u not.. u should not buy it.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Moggas5585
Rating: 7.4
Date: Nov 19, 2006 2:58 am PT
Review:  I'll start with the crews,
  The crew gameplay is quite a nice addition although usually for a driving game such as the nfs 
 series doesnt need this kind of addition to make you feel addictive enough. Or even to make it 
 a real driving experience.
  The graphics are cool but i'd say MW was better in terms of the nice 'dusk' effects.
  The autosculpt 
 is nice but EA only put in about 4 or 5 front/rear/skirts that can be autoscuplt??
  what ever happened to the countless bumpers and body kits that were the trademarks of Underground2?
 
  The choices were so limited, its pointless to even introduce the autosculpt but thumbs up for 
 that.
  As for the cars, i couldnt wait to play the game when i found out there tons more car additions 
 plus cooler cars like the jaguar XK in Carbon than MW
  But it was a total dissapointment!!! You know why?
  Because if you start the career with the 
 muscle car, you only get to unlock muscle cars only!!!
  You only unlock a few tuners and exotics and vice versa
  Listen EA, gamers who are crazy in customization 
 want ALL CARS unlocked!! not if we unlock a car for that particular type
  I mean come on, we want to go customize crazy in the 'my cars' section. Meaning if i want to go 
 customize crazy on a Gallardo in the 'my cars' section then i'd have to play the exotics????
  what about if i want to customize a corvette??? what about that??? I have to start another career 
 and select 'muscle'???? its a total letdown...
  The cops, one word: DISSAPOINTING!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: myt1m3isnow
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 18, 2006 12:02 pm PT
Review:  Need For Speed Carbon was a good game for me (still is, but i finished him, with all his reward cards 
 and challenge series) . There is no perfect Need For Speed.... UG 2 had drags, amazing drifts.. i even 
 remember now the hummer who rulez with hydraulics, neons..... the best simulator was Porsche. The 
 best tuning was UG 2 or (and) UG 1. The best storyline... maybe in Most Wanted... The shortest game 
 was for me Carbon... But the canyon was a good idea... the pursuits are the funniest for me. Have 
 a look: why this AI is so silly?
  Autosculpt is a great idea.
  Also, the racers AI is not the most inspired. Kenji was a little **** for me. And Angie..... the 
 worst i've ever seen
  Per all, NFS Carbon is a great game, but not the best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zircom
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 18, 2006 9:43 am PT
Review:  For fans of the classic Need for Speed games, and even Most Wanted, Carbon will come as a hyped 
 up rehash with very few new features. While the graphics look good, the engine is starting to show 
 its age as the core graphics have not changed much since the Need for Speed: Underground series. 
 The cut scenes are great, if a little bit overacted, with the blend between live action and 3D 
 animation. It is a shame though that the big name actors and flashy clips out pace the rest of 
 the graphical experience. Another annoying graphics issue is the damage modeling. If you are going 
 to do it at all, do it right. They had the opportunity to really add some nice special effects 
 on par with other top racing games, but fell back to the same look as the older NFS games. Also, 
 they can't seem to decide if NFS should be in the night or daytime. Every game in the series seems 
 to change and now we are back in the nighttime, with the return of ugly looking backdrops. Their 
 just isn't enough color and life to go with the rest of the beautiful graphics. If fans or the 
 game designers can't decide which is better, night or day driving, maybe they should put in both 
 or do some serious work to make the environments look better.
  
  Racing wise there is nothing too new, just the same types of races as you progress through an extremely 
 predictable storyline. The new canyon mode is sometimes fun, but can also be a hassle since it 
 is composed of essentially two races, but if you lose the second one, its back to the beginning. 
 The cars seem to handle nicely with a decent feel for the speed of the game. My favorite new feature 
 is the addition of some classic cars including the famous Shelby GT500. This and the division between 
 Exotic, Tuner, and Muscle cars, add new life in your pursuit for the best ride. If the races didn't 
 all look the same, the game play would actually be fun and engaging at times with a rich selection 
 of racing culture. Another great feature is the tuning. An ever-changing feature with NFS, this 
 time I think they hit it right on the money with just the right amount of visual and performance 
 upgrades. In addition, performance upgrades finally allow for some real tweaking without too much 
 technical mumbo jumbo.
  
  Another good aspect of the game is the sound. By far the richest so far in the series, each type 
 of car sounds like it should and is accompanied by an upbeat if somewhat boring soundtrack. With 
 some nice improvements to the sound and game play, it is a shame that Carbon fell short of a perfect 
 score. Features such as the cop chases felt ripped off Most Wanted without any improvement and 
 the rest of the game was just an Underground wannabe. NFS is such a great series with an amazing 
 history; it is a shame that there cannot be more consistency and improvement with this game. Gone 
 are the glory days of cruising at 200 MPH along a coastal highway or along a pristine country road. 
 This game isn't about driving anymore; it's about what people think of you, and more then anything 
 that is what makes this game fall short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Canxp
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 18, 2006 7:54 am PT
Review:  Most Wanted is much better than Carbon, here are the reasons:
  
  Graphics (8/10) : Looks great, very realistic reflection, but didn't score 10 because of the over-used 
 blur effects, you could be almost 10 mph, and all looks excessively blur. All the game occurs at 
 night, instead of the dusk lighted environment of MW. It would be nice some light change.
  
  Sounds (6/10) : Car sounds are great, but ambient, other cars and crew members suck. In MW you 
 could run through a bridge and hear the sound of the wind while crossing it. Some crew members 
 voice are just annoying, especially because of their useless info like Great! you're first, now 
 defend it (no sh*t) . Music does not help either. Instead of the hip-hop fast-heart-pumping music 
 from MW, you get some slow hip hop or electronic music, which doesn't fit in with the race thing.
 
  
  Gameplay (5/10) : Pursuits are weak and almost unseen in Career mode. Only challenges can pull a 
 real pursuit. The zone controlling system is a pain, forced to beat old races. The auto sculpt 
 system, performance configuration and car unlocking, are the really neat features of this game. 
 But the crew member addition, sucks. It's nice to run with a partner, but it's impossible when 
 he/she tries to stick to you. For example, Yumi (scout) could easily get to the front of my car 
 but two seconds after she slows down to take a curve, forcing me to slow down or hit her. Brilliant 
 AI.
  
  Difficulty: Rare. The first boss fight is impossible, then they're all easy in career mode. Some 
 races can exceed difficulty for no reason, I was playing with the RX8 (pink slip) some races, then 
 someone challenges me, and I'm forced to play against some Gallardo (s) and a Carrera GT. (wtf?)
 
  Also, you must wait a lot for new cars, which is sometimes disappointing, specially because your 
 opponents can pull out great cars, even if they are almost extinct. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bad_Belzebu
Rating: 5.8
Date: Nov 18, 2006 1:45 am PT
Review:  Anounced as a great game to disapoint me! Very small game, in 6/8 hours you can finish it.... Its 
 worst than MW, the drift is very stupid!!! I consider it a medium game, cause the tunning is somewhat 
 cool, and we can drive some american muscles!!! The Soundtrack it's just great!!! The Story is 
 weak, it didn't addicted me... One more cool thing is the conquer zones, that is cool but when 
 it comes to defend your zone in a while you get bored! It seems that the online play it is great 
 but i didn't experienced it! It was the most disapointing game i played this year... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadibm
Rating: 7.2
Date: Nov 18, 2006 1:16 am PT
Review:  Ok. I'll give them extra points for Graphics, &amp; Car Controls, The City is amazing with tons 
 of small details that makes everything almost perfect, Gas station explosions are better then they 
 were is The Most Wanted and crashing Sound Effects are also better, Shader makes night cruising 
 more detailed and bright, Cars are more detailed and high reflection rates make it so real .
  
  Certainly the Autosculpt thing was the only truly new and admirable thing in the game especially 
 when you deal with 21 Wheels -I mean Oh My God, what a Ride .
  And again you have the option of adding more vainly layers as in Underground 2 making your ride 
 even more personalized Maybe I'll give more points for cars brand, Putting back the Nissan Skyline 
 &amp; Z350 was a great touch, not to mention the amazing Dodge charger &amp; the Jaguar JXR, bottom 
 line the car collection is amazing
  
  But what about the game, I mean the amazing excitement of racing which was in Most Wanted is absolutely 
 Gone, racing was really out of fun. either it was too easy or too damn ridiculous and mostly tooooooo 
 short, Career took me 3 days only.
  
  Cup Pursuit is irritating and not fun at all and sometime escaping becomes a dilemma that even 
 though I had a lot of fun raising the pursuit heat to Level 5 in Most Wanted, I found it much more 
 reliefing to just give up in Carbon, I just didn't think that the cup thing fits in. I didn't like 
 the Crew thing as well, blocking cars or directing you through the races short cuts make the game 
 less challenging not to mention the a lot of time they themselves gets in your way.
  
  Canyon Racing was terrible that the only good experience was actually to fall of the cliff , Thank 
 God there was drifting races.
  
  I'm a Big Need For Speed Fan I mean I tried all 9 of them and I was more then happy playing each 
 one for a till the next release, however No. 10 Carbon was a long waited game that though has a 
 few good points was in general a big disappointment in some way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HardwareLust
Rating: 4.8
Date: Nov 17, 2006 12:49 pm PT
Review:  I was kind of excited to get this because I really REALLY liked playing NFS: U. Frankly, I'm completely 
 unimpressed with this effort. The driving physics just suck. I mean, this was never a simulator 
 in any way, shape or form, but they've gone and destroyed the physics of the car to the point where 
 the game just isn't even really fun to drive the cars anymore. I play this on the same machine 
 I used for NSF: U... same controller, everything. The brakes? They suck. Accelerator? Sucks. Hand 
 brake? Sucks. Steering? Ha! It's just not fun to drive the cars at all.
  
  Graphics, are they better? Maybe. A little at best. That new car morphing customization thing? 
 Pffft. Worthless. Cinematics? Laughable. Story? What, there's a story? I couldn't tell. Drag racing? 
 Gone!?! W. t. f.?
  
  What is improved? Hmmm.... The city's better and bigger. Canyon racing COULD have been fun if the 
 driving physics hadn't been destroyed. The new multiplayer COULD have been a lot of fun, if only 
 they hadn't ruined the driving part.
  
  I hate it. I'm disappointed. They ruined it.
  
  EA's really dropping the ball lately. After BF2142 and this, I'm losing what little faith I have 
 left in EA. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MafiaMizo
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 17, 2006 10:51 am PT
Review:  Need for speed series defiantly dominates when it comes to street racing. And Carbon yet proves 
 that there were more additions to be made, if you're a Fan of series then it's a Must, if you're 
 not then it's worth a try.
  
  Game play:
  The Strategic side of territories is a nice plus, there's a world map that you need to conquer, 
 and Racer Gangs will attack your areas often in which case you can either defend or leave it 
 to them. Bosses own other areas; eventually you'll have to battle.
  Wingmen are a nice addition, these guys and gals help make most races much easier. Drifts are back, 
 and they are much more harder and meaner. Drags are gone, which is bad. Police isn't like most 
 wanted though, and not as adrenaline pumping as before. Storyline is surprisingly good, as it continues 
 from Most wanted and reveals more question marks.
  
  Graphics:
  It's PS3 Graphics, what more need I say? Sound:
  NOS, Turbo, crashes are all nice. Videos and 
 FMV sequences are nicely made and blend in.
  
  Bottom line:
  Go for it, It's really worth it and provides plenty of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _seVen_
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 17, 2006 7:59 am PT
Review:  Need for Speed. One of the most famous and most successful game franchise ever. Need for Speed 
 1 was released in 1995, and it was an instant classic. It redefined the meaning of 'racing games'. 
 It had it all: fast and good looking exotics, muscles, lots of tracks with beautiful, exotic scenery, 
 good simulation, dashboard view, so actually everything you could ask for.
  The franchise was developed very well along the years, however, there was a big perspective change 
 in 2003, when NFS: Underground was released.
  
  Instead of the exotic tracks, we had a town to race in. Instead of muslces and exotics, we got 
 tuners to race with. Instead of damage, dashboard view, changing weather, we got a very detailed 
 tuning options, night time races, and very easy, arcade-like controls. Many people liked that, 
 but many, especially fans of the 'old' NFS, like myself, was disappointed with it.
  
  Unfortunately, this perspective wouldn't change; Underground 2 was released, and after that, Most 
 Wanted, which although brought the exotic cars back, and the daytime races, the roots of the Underground 
 races were still there.
  
  So now, we got NFS Carbon, which is actually NFS Underground 3. Again, only night time races, and 
 again, the main focus is on tuners, but let's see if Carbon can get any better than the Undergrounds.
 
  
  Carbon features a very basic storyline, and continues right where Most Wanted left off. The story 
 is developed during the game, but is unfortunately not really finished; it feels really rushed.
 
  
  The game is set night time, in a huge city, and Carbon Canyon. The city is split into 4 parts; 
 each part is owned by a gang. Logically, we have to take over these districts, and be the king.
 
  
  To take over a district, we have to fight through races to challenge the 'owner' of the zone. The 
 boss challenges are pretty much like in Most Wanted, with the exception we don't have to collect 
 bounty; although, cops are still there, but they are not crucial to the career mode, so you can 
 lose them, no need to be chased. The most hyped new feature is the Canyon race; well, actually, 
 races. You can do 'Sprint' (point to point) races in the canyon, do canyon drift and canyon duel. 
 In the duel and the drift, it's possible to fall off the canyon, but it doesn't really affect the 
 gameplay, you can just restart the race.
  
  Speaking of canyon duel... to defend a boss, you need to do duel with him/her. Duel is a fun game 
 mode. There are 2 stages of it. The first stage, the oppenent is ahead, and you have to stay as 
 close as possible. The 2nd stage, it's the other way around. Whoever stays closer for most of the 
 stage, wins, however, if you can overtake your oppenent (or vica versa) and hold it off for 10 seconds, 
 you instantly win.
  
  There are some real nice improvements in the race dynamics: improved AI, and the catch up is weakened; 
 and finally, there are more than 4 cars on the track at the same time; now we got 8. You can take 
 one 'gang-member' with yourself to help you through the race. You can hire/fire them. There are 
 3 types of members: blocker, pathfinder and drafter. Blocker, well, obviously helps you by blocking 
 the oppenents. The pathfinder finds all the shortcuts on the track and marks them on your minimap. 
 The drafter drives right infront of you, so you can go much faster.
  
  To win a race, either you or your gang member has to win.
  
  The drift mode is re-added, but 
 it should have been missed instead, because what drift is now, is ridicilious. In Underground 1 
 and 2, drift was fun. In Carbon, its just ridicilious. You can drift with ease, you don't even 
 have to use brakes, you just turn. In drift races, there's simply no grip, it's like you're driving 
 on oil.
  
  Drag race was removed, which is stupid, because the enviorment is perfect for drag races.
  
 
  There are 3 car classes, muscles, exotics and tuners. Tuners have advantage here in almost everything.
 
  
  Graphically, the game is good, but given the fact it has very high system requirements, it's pretty 
 poor. The controls are fine, but still way too arcade-ish for my taste. Physics are non-existant, 
 which is again, very disappointing. There is car damage, but it won't affect the performance.
 
  
  The sounds are great, EA done a real good job. Same goes for the music, although it's really up 
 to what you like.
  
  The gameplay is pretty dull, and repetative, but buying and tuning new cars can make it real fun. 
 The game offers even better tuning options than ever before. We can adjust each bodypart's properties, 
 so we can make cars look real unique.
  
  The biggest problem of this game is that it's very short. The career mode is no more than 3-4 hours, 
 which is really disappointing, especially because Most Wanted's and the Undergrounds are all over 
 6hours.
  
  Overally, this is a good game, but nothing revolutionary, and although it mostly improved over 
 the latest NFS; Most wanted, it's still not what NFS should be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaEliteCommando
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 16, 2006 1:47 pm PT
Review:  When I heared that EA is going to release a new sequel to Need for Speed, I was thinking what more 
 they can add to Most Wanted. Here we are with NFS: Carbon with alot to offer to its great fans!
 
  
  First, the additions. Most Wanted had really limited visual customizes, in carbon this was greatly 
 fixed. Not only simple visuals, but a wide range of stuff you can just upgrade them tier by tier. 
 Besides that, the nearly full control of the performance upgrades is a great deal. Giving you the 
 chance to choose between grip and drift wheels is just amazing, and that goes with every single 
 performance upgrades.
  
  Duels, which I personaly think is a major attraction point in the game. New style for the NFS series, 
 more realistic, and ofcourse more fun. Bosses are little bit hard, but as you move on along the 
 game, you get better, which makes the bosses more easy. The drifts are back again! I still don't 
 know why they were removed from Most Wanted in the first place. Moving on to the Removals. Drags 
 no longer exist. They where little bit boring, but still fun in multiplayer sessions. Which brings 
 me to the concept of NO more LAN sessions, how disappointing?! However, all that is nothing compared 
 to the wide range of cars added to this sequel. Really great additions. Moreover, the cars are 
 classified into 3 groups: tuner, exotic and muscle. Which leads to a new extent of gaming experience 
 in the game.
  
  To sum up, i think not playing this game is a great loss to NFS fans, after all its an EA game! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tomasis15
Rating: 7.3
Date: Nov 16, 2006 9:54 am PT
Review:  I have played Need For speed Carbon, at the begining of the game, there was really amazing, but 
 after ~2 hours of playing i was disapointed of graphic and gameplay.. Nothing new.. All cars are 
 unlocking, then you wining all the game. I don't like it. By the way Mazda RX8 isn't slow automobile!!! 
 But in the game it is so slow and .... i ran out of my words :) Big mistake from Ea. So i think 
 they go to bankrot with so bad games... Most Wanted is the best game i ever palyed from Need For 
 Speed series. Thats my opinion.
  Sorry for my English :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stevanooz
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 16, 2006 1:01 am PT
Review:  The games is great. So many cars to select and one is the best thing, you can replay the game with 
 different car style that you can change your style too. But I, personally, don't like the repetition 
 of the game. Like you must play over the same course to control your zone. I prefer, if I already 
 control it.. well, say let my man protect that area and I don't have to race again just to control 
 it back.
  
  But it's a great game, so I can give it 8 because so many things that life up the games to be one 
 of the best racing game. If the Trax can be as good as Most Wanted or Underground, I can give it 
 9, but the trax truly disappointed. The first time I hope the Trax will be as good as the previous 
 series, but is not even make the game looks macho .
  
  If you die hard NFS fans, this is one can put in your collection and you will play it again and 
 again.
  
  Try it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phoenixrebirth
Rating: 7.2
Date: Nov 15, 2006 9:44 pm PT
Review:  The graphics are the same quality u found in Most Wanted. They added some more cars, and now u 
 race at nite vs the day. Also up to 8 cars are in a race vs. four in Most Wanted. The canyon races 
 are a cool new addition, and so is the new autosculpting feature. The new wingman addition comes 
 in handy but u could live without it. Ok now for the bad news. This game should of been an expansion 
 pack rather then a full game. Too short. The cop interaction is weak. Although they did tweek the 
 intensity of the cops when u are being chased. U can have like 10 squad cars on u within one minute 
 of being spotted by the cops. But that all goes to waste as the appearance of the cops is rare. 
 For a game this short... cops should be present atleast every third race... not every 6th or 7th 
 race race like it seems in this game. The new customization system is also a let down. Instead 
 of having the parts avaliable and all u have to do is earn enough money to purchase the parts and 
 have it installed in your car u must first unlock the parts by winning a particular race then on 
 top of that purchase the parts. Also the classification of cars divided into what they call tiers, 
 and u must have a matching tier part to go with that car, kinda sucks the fun outta customizing. 
 With this new system u cant customize like u could in Most Wanted. Most Wanted system made sense.. this 
 one.. really doesnt. U have to win a specific race to unlock a specific tier type part (i. e. tier 
 1 engine, tier 2 suspension.. etc) And then u must also unlock different paint styles as well... why??? 
 Its just paint.
  Another thing is this game is unstable. Since I have been playing the game, it has crashed about 
 11 times. And there is no patch avaliable which really doesnt make EA look good as this crashing 
 of the game is a known problem. And the game's ending... if u are expecting an ending like u found 
 in Most Wanted... dont waste your time trying to findi it in this game. SMH. There are other bad 
 points, features, etc. to the game but I dont have enough space to write them in this format so 
 I will end by saying Carbon is a cool game that could of been a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Amanology
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 15, 2006 4:28 pm PT
Review:  The game features is great, the crew, the pursuits, the boss races and the new type of drifts too. 
 The game difficulty is very easy, you can finish the career mode on a day, they should set multi-levels 
 of difficulties in the game.
  
  The graphics is nice and the game is not heavy on the CPU or the GPU, it runs smoothly and loads 
 very fast. And that's great comparing it with other games released this season.
  
  The sounds are normal, nothing new, I mute the music because I didn't like it at all, but the the 
 in game sound effects is very nice.
  
  Over all, I liked it a lot and looking for updates and extensions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Silence_Toothy
Rating: 3.5
Date: Nov 15, 2006 12:39 pm PT
Review:  The Graphics: even EA could mess that up. the cars all look shiny, but road textures, object textures, 
 they all look like made in a Windows Paint.
  
  The Sound: They did made the car sound different, the soundtrack doesn't fit at all. there is a 
 horror music while your having a canyon duel, and very strange music while your upgrading your 
 car.
  
  Completing the career mode is even a simple task for a 7 year old kid, simple yet annoying.
  
 The police is rarely seen in action and they drive like idiots, they seem to crash into buildings, 
 gas stations and everything else by themselves. The game constantly crashes while at the car lot 
 or at the garage.
  
  The greater part of the game is to randomize your car by moving vinyls, scaling them, making bumpers 
 bigger/smaller, etc etc.
  And the cars are divided into 3 groups: Muscles, Tuners and Exotics, which all preform differently 
 on the track.
  
  I have completed the career mode in about 4 hours.
  
  if your looking for a great game which has free roam, chases and pretty long game at the Need For 
 Speed series, Need For Speed Most Wanted, should be your choice.
  
  NOT WORTH BUYING! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lue_driver
Rating: 5.8
Date: Nov 15, 2006 5:31 am PT
Review:  dont get me wrong its a good game i just wish it had as much bmw as it had mercedes or nissans...
 
  
  the normal m3 e46,
  the new m6,
  the z4 m
  
  why older versions like the m3 e30...
  
  or the race version m1...
  
  in my humble opinion 
 it leaves out the beemers because its not bling bling enough like the mercedes...
  
  also i'd like to see some other classic cars like bullit's mustang, shelby's cobra coupe daytona...
 
  
  although i like the story line...
  
  it realy put u in the middle of the story...
  
  the grafics are great, the gamplay as you expect from a need for speed game... the autosculpt 
 is a great feature...
  
  to be able to tune it just the way you want is a great idea...
  
  and its nice that they finaly put a super charger, but still no n/a tuning which is a expected 
 but still disapointing... (as is a lack of choice in good rwd cars) ... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: s23m
Rating: 4.2
Date: Nov 15, 2006 3:03 am PT
Review:  I had high expectations from NFS: C considering the tremendous hype and buzz that had been generated 
 by EA prior to the release of this game. But this game is a huge letdown in all respects-the gameplay 
 sucks and is extremely irritating and repetitive, this game runs terribly slow at slightly higher 
 resolutions and higher graphical settings irrespective of ur PC's config; even if u have a high-end 
 system, the game will run excruciatingly slow, leaving you no choice but to stick to lower resolutions 
 that impart a tacky look to this game.
  
  This game doesn't deliver in the eye-candy department either-though the cars look quite good, the 
 environment, roads and buildings look atrocious as they have been created using very low-res textures. The 
 low-res textures would have been a blessing in disguise for older consoles like the PS2-but they 
 are totally unsuitable for the PC version. The in-game environments of NFS: C will remind you of 
 NFS: underground 2 coz they bear a striking resemblance to the horribly undertextured levels of 
 the latter game. Despite the fact that NFS: C's graphics look dated, it runs rather slowly even on 
 state of the art PCs!
  
  The gameplay is horrible in the sense that its quite monotonous and repetitive. The so-called revolutionary 
 canyon duels are fun for a while-but you'll start losing interest in them after sometime. Besides, the 
 drifts are a real pain in the ass-at times you'll find it terribly hard to maneuver your car around 
 the sharp turns and corners and as a result of this it inevitably crashes to the nearby walls and 
 so u'll feel like ripping out clumps of hair from your head in sheer frustration over and over 
 again.
  
  BOTTOMLINE-AVOID THIS GAME AT ALL COSTS; TRY IT ONLY IF YOU'RE TERRIBLY BORED-EVEN THEN, GIVE TERTRIS 
 OR PONG A SHOT FIRST. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mido22
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 15, 2006 12:37 am PT
Review:  realy great game by but there is somthing that i hate about nfs developers they never do a game 
 that switching night&amp; day ... why they always do one way game (night / day) ?? why don't make 
 it day and night ?? but everything exept that is realy great . by the way the autosculpt mode is 
 bad idea too , hope they don't make it again. and the game play is realy great too. well we all 
 love need for speed series for its game play since need for speed 2 second edition , to need for 
 speed carbon . but the only game that was bad in gameplay was (need for speed hot pursuit) . and 
 the graphics is awsome but that night always thing is the wrong thing that i don't like .. let's 
 not forget the sounds and the music in the game it's all perfect . i know that E. A always do some 
 great work in sounds for all it's games . thank u then and have fun . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wsammut
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 15, 2006 12:13 am PT
Review:  first of all the graphics of the game are good, sound is also great, but the game is 1: too short, 
 2 : boring, 3 : repetitive and 4 : no drag races !!!!!
  
  i mean ok this game was mostly insiperd by fast and furious toky drift but the game lacked some 
 new feature. yes there is the crew and then canyon... but were are the police ??? i used to love 
 those milestones in most wanted, how do you increase your heat when the cars are plain stupid at 
 the beginning so you just escape and thats it still heat 1. i never got to see even heat 2 police 
 cars. that really was a miss that was great from most wanted. no drag races that also i didnt like. 
 it was like the best type of race that i enjoyed were you really get to feel the speed of the car, 
 but this changed it with drift... which is also good but at least leave them together and take 
 away circuit. Also the game is very short, i passed it in a few days just 3 or 4 and it is relatively 
 easy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Luagsch
Rating: 6.8
Date: Nov 14, 2006 3:43 pm PT
Review:  So having enjoyed Most Wanted I got into the game not expecting something incredible, but some 
 new features. Well they are here, but some are just ridiculous.
  
  Crew: Either they ram you or they win my races. And if I want to unlock something that only some 
 crew-members can, hire them, get what you want, get rid of them. My scout wins 1/3 of my races, 
 cause he has to be ahead of me, to show me the shortcuts...
  
  Cars: Sure the different tiers (muscle cars, exotic, tuners behave differently, but in the end 
 I don't really feel the difference except of the same old more grip less grip. The pimping is ok, 
 but not the jump you would have expected. And as I already spent enough time with pimping in Most 
 Wanted I don't want anymore...
  
  Sound: Missing EA Tracks that make me go. Fun thing that sometimes I don't hear my engine of my 
 tuner-car anymore cause the muscle car besides is just so loud.
  
  Tracks: They get interesting in the final part of the game. Before it's more of the same of the 
 same of the same (without the really fun police-chases) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Atkinson2055
Rating: 5.9
Date: Nov 14, 2006 3:08 pm PT
Review:  This game is overrated and all the other need for speed titles is way better than this one, they 
 could have done better. Don't even waste time playing unless you want to see the cars and what 
 happens, but the story line, isn't all that good either. The most irritating thing about the game 
 is the drifts, they make it the game 10 times worst, and they could have done better with those 
 if they wanted to base the whole game around drifting. I am really glad that I didnt waste money 
 to buy this game, because its not even worth what ever it costs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Centurin
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 14, 2006 9:22 am PT
Review:  First, this review is for people who are familiar with the previous NFS games, especially Most 
 Wanted. I will be comparing this game to MW in most cases because I consider that the best in the 
 series.
  
  To start out, this game is best described as a cross between Underground 2 and Most Wanted. The 
 game is set at night again and picks up where Most Wanted left off. Your car gets totaled (again) 
 and you must choose between three tiers of cars: Muscle, Tuner, and Exotic. The car selection is 
 definitely improved from Most Wanted with the biggest inclusion being all the muscle cars. The 
 story is also an improvement with more cut scenes to keep you interested. One of the things that 
 Carbon introduces are crews. You can have drafters, blockers, and scouts. Some find the crew annoying, 
 but I find them enjoyable. Blockers are very useful for taking out drivers behind you, and some 
 of the crews give you boosts to nitrous speed. Plus, they comment during races which makes things 
 more interesting for me. Another thing that Carbon adds is the Autoscript option. This allows you 
 to customize various parts of your car to look very unique. It's a great addition and is much improved 
 from the limited options of Most Wanted. Carbon also has a much greater selection of parts and 
 vinyls. Plus, you can finally have more than one layer of vinyls. Overall, the visual customization 
 is even better than Underground 2. Even the performance customization is better. You can tweak 
 your cars performance, handling, and acceleration, but not to the insane detail that Underground 
 2 gave you. The game play in general hasn't changed all that much. Drift races are back, but drag 
 and knock-out races are well... out. The canyon races are annoying, yet challenging. I greatly 
 disliked them when I started playing, but they've grown on me since. The game itself is also much 
 shorter and easier than Most Wanted. Catch-up mode doesn't seem to be default like it was in Most 
 Wanted. Also, opponent cars don't scale with you. For example, if you used a cheat in Most Wanted 
 and started the game with a Lamborghini, all your opponents would be just as fast as you in Tier3 
 cars. Not so in Carbon. This works both ways, however. If you don't have a fast car by the end 
 of the game, you will find the races very difficult. The one thing I can say about the game play 
 that is improved with Carbon are the challenge series races. Instead of having to do them one at 
 a time like in MW, they are divided up into Bronze, Silver, and Gold. If you really like Drift, 
 you can do only the Drift events. The same goes with pursuits and other race types. Splitting them 
 up like they did seemed so much more logical than how MW did it.
  
  Cops are back in Carbon and are pretty much Carbon copies from Most Wanted. They even copied over 
 all the police radio chat. I found that disappointing. The cops seem to react a little better than 
 Most Wanted too. Their responses tend to make more sense and they aren't as bugged. Plus, they 
 use a much greater amount of squad cars in each heat level. However, despite this they are much 
 easier to avoid. This is because pursuit breakers are pretty much everywhere, and they removed 
 the helicopter. These two things pretty much makes the cop chases nothing but a slight annoyance.
 
  
  Visually, I honestly think Carbon was a step back from Most Wanted. The city is very bland, even 
 more so than Underground 2. All the areas of the city look the same to me and there is less to 
 interact with. Rockport in MW was very diverse and looked better being during the day. Plus, it 
 had unique and fun sections like the golf course, university, highways, and the coast. Carbon was 
 a big letdown in that department. Plus, the motion blur is completely overdone. In Most Wanted, 
 it was just right. I recommend disabling motion blur in Carbon before you even get behind the wheel. 
 Sound effects are pretty standard fare for NFS games. The exception being the EA Trax which seem 
 to rarely be used. During my whole time in the campaign if I heard more than 5 tracks it was a 
 lot. I would think they would use the in game music a tad more. In summary, while Carbon is a good 
 game in itself, it leaves me wanting more. Most Wanted was such a huge step for the NFS franchise 
 it's a shame they decided to deviate from it. It's a good game, but not excellent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: royzentner
Rating: 6.9
Date: Nov 14, 2006 3:29 am PT
Review:  After waiting so long, I was very disappointed EA has decided to take the latest sequel to this 
 great sequence down a notch and make it a more arcade-styled racing game. The game has its' good, 
 bad and ugly sides:
  
  The Good: Autosculpt - A new feature to the series. It gives you the ability to really customize 
 your visuals and parts. You decide how thick or deep are the cuts on your bumpers, skirts, hoods, 
 rims, exhaust tips and roof scoops. Customizable Vinyls - This time, you don't have a fixed location 
 for the vinyls. You control their size and position. Unlockables - In NFSC, different cars, parts 
 and visuals are unlocked by completing a series of achievements in a cool 'Reward Cards' system. 
 Finishing the career mode isn't enough to unlock everything. More reward cards are gained in quick 
 race mode, the challenge series, police pursuits and free roam. Car Types &amp; Tiers - NFSC divides 
 all cars into 3 types: Exotic (Good Acceleration) , Tuner (Good Handling) and Muscle (High Top Speed) . 
 This makes you choose your racing style right from the start. There are 3 tiers for each type and 
 thus performance parts from tier 1 can be maxed early in the game but when you buy a tier 2 car 
 you'll have to race some more to unlock tier 2 performance parts and the same thing goes for tier 
 3. HUD - I like what they did to the HUD. It looks futuristic and sharp. I especially liked the 
 RPM meter (or tachymeter) .
  
  The Bad: Difficulty - This game is much too easy!!! EA should really give you the choice and not 
 choose for you. What's so hard in asking you when you start a new career which difficulty you want 
 it to be? Remember those hard races from NFS Porsche Unleashed? I miss that!!! Length - I guess 
 EA thought you can spend hours and hours of fun in quick racing or online racing, but this is ridiculous. 
 NFSMW had 15 blacklist racers and about 5-10 (maybe more) races to challenge each of them. You 
 do the math. NFSC is much shorter, plus there are only 4 bosses in the game. We want to work harder 
 and beat more bosses in a game! Race Types - I can't believe they took out Drag and Lap Knockout! 
 They added Canyon races which IMO sucks cause it's a  race with 
 the option of falling off the ledge if you come too fast into the curves. EA, Stop trying to immitate 
 The Fast And The Furius movies. This time, they take the canyon duel scene from tokyo drift and 
 put it in the game as the only way to beat a boss. I didn't like it at all. Soundtrack - I was 
 going to say that the soundtrack is dull but then I started a new career in the game and noticed 
 more songs. I guess when you choose different types of cars you listen to different songs. That 
 sucks. There aren't that much tracks to divide into each car class. Better put all tracks on random 
 playback. The music itself is much less powerful than the last 3 installments of the series. Some 
 of the music (like police pursuit music) is the recycled from NFSMW (That might be a good thing 
 cause that music rocks) . The soundtrack lacks originality. Visual Parts - EA keeps taking out stuff 
 from the game. I really liked that you could customize your car's front and tail lights, as well 
 as your sound system and engine parts' color. I also miss the paint of brake calipers. Police Pursuits 
 - Exact same feeling as NFSMW. Only big difference is you can now use those big trucks carrying 
 logs or cars to your advantage by making them drop their cargo and really disable a bunch of police 
 vehicles. I hate it when there's a spike strip next to a pursuit breaker! The game goes to a cutscene 
 showing all the police cars getting smashed by a big doughnut falling on them and when the player 
 gets the control back on it's vehicle, it's too late to prevent going through a spike strip and 
 popping all of your tires. Customizable Vinyls - I know I put this in 'The Good' section but it 
 also belongs here. Changing a vinyl's position is so slow with the keyboard. Why couldn't the developers 
 make it possible to move vinyls around with the mouse. Also, why can't we put logo vinyls on our 
 windshield and rear window anymore? Night-time-only Racing - I HATE IT!!! What good are the graphics 
 if there's no light? Turn on the lights next time!
  
  The Ugly: In-Game Cut-Scenes - who needs them?? just make it all a real movie like the other scenes. 
 Angie's character, for example, looks so bad in the game's graphics, I didn't understand at first 
 who is talking to me. Performance Upgrades Menus - when choosing a performance upgrade, the game 
 gives you the choice to customize that specific parts to your liking. It's pretty hard to reach 
 the optimal car settings when customizing each parts seperately. Again, to those of you who remember 
 need for speed porsche unleashed, you could change the car setup in one screen (brake bias, suspension 
 stiffness, etc.) .
  
  I'm sure there are much more things I could say about Need for Speed Carbon, But in general, I 
 want to tell EA developers not to take out good features like race types or customization options. 
 Don't remove, only add. Also, I wanna say that I speak for a lot of players when I say I prefer 
 realism over arcade racing. That's all I'm gonna say about that.
  To the Need for Speed fans and all other gamers, This is still a fun game to play but it lacks 
 certain elements of fun that the last 3 games in the series had, and that makes this game pretty 
 disappointing to people who played Underground I &amp; II and Most Wanted. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: osama03
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 13, 2006 9:54 pm PT
Review:  Continuing the story from previous nfs game named nfs Most wanted the story of nfs carbon starts. The 
 graphics of the game is awesome and the features of the game are great such as autosculpt technology 
 which help you to customize the size of front bumper, Rare bumper, spoilers, hoods etc and you 
 can also change the performance of your car by changing engines, transmission, nitrous and turbo 
 etc of different types but only the problem with the game is gameplay and story. The story of the 
 game is too short and the difficulty level of game is very easy than the previous nfs games only 
 drift races are hard. In nfs carbon players face treacheous canyon roads. What starts in the city 
 is settled in the canyons. You and your crew risking everything to take over your rivals neighborhoods. 
 Nfs carbon delivers customization giving you the power to design your crews cars in everyway. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jono0
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 13, 2006 8:30 am PT
Review:  Need For Speed: Carbon Is Just one big disappointment. The only things that shines in this game, 
 are its stunning Graphics, and the auto sculpt feature, Which is really a really great new addition 
 to the series. Other then that, there is no good reason to buy it. The Wingman thing is not good 
 at all. you can win a race without any help at all. Also, You can beat the police with one hand 
 tied to your back. EA is making the same mistake over and over again. You repeat the same tracks 
 loads of times, making the game really dull. Overall, this game is a huge disappointment and I 
 really hope EA will think Twice before starting a new NFS game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: almightytrent
Rating: 6.7
Date: Nov 13, 2006 12:00 am PT
Review:  It seems that Need for Speed has fallen back into the habit of copying the Fast and Furious series; 
 this time, the victim is Tokyo Drift. Most wanted had broken from this trend by offering something 
 new, a challenge of making your way to the top on the black list by racing against a wide variety 
 of rides and racers. This has been stripped down radically in Carbon. Carbon can be blown through 
 in a single day, if it doesn't bore you enough to put it down.
  
  Carbon pits you against four people. Four. You must win around 10 races or so before you can challenge 
 one of the four bosses, depending on which zone you are taking over. Once you defeat the boss, 
 you move on to the next zone. Once you make it to the last boss, however, you must challenge all 
 three of the previous ones yet again. This generally leads to a loss of interest.
  
  In Most Wanted, each character had his/her own style, from that asian ricer guy in the beginning 
 to the wanna be tough guy Razor. In Carbon, everyone looks the same, wearing ridiculous oversized 
 coats. Every racer looks... business like. Their cars all look the same as well. It simply detracts 
 from the realism of underground racing by lacking the variety that Most Wanted had. The soundtrack 
 is abysmal. When you first start the game, you are greeted by nasty synthesizers with some dork 
 saying you'll never survive... . It doesn't get much better in-game. The police chase music is 
 recycled from Most Wanted, which is actually a good thing, since it is quite excellent. But the 
 developers decided to also throw it into races, so those three chase tracks get old FAST. The licensed 
 music only plays when you are in free roam mode, which is basically obsolete now that you can jump 
 to each event with a click of the mouse. And dont expect to run into the police more than 5 times 
 in the career mode.
  
  The one change that I can really appreciate is drift racing. In the NFS Underground games, the 
 drift physics were somewhat retarded, and you could rack up massive points by driving like a drunken 
 walrus. Now the driving mechanics are spot on, making drift racing quite possibly the most exciting 
 form of racing that the game has to offer. Sure, Canyon racing is intense, but it just gets old.
 
  
  Let's talk about the wingmen. They are the devil's way of tormenting you. There have been times 
 where my scout or drafter would slam me into the side, completely ruining the race. My advice; 
 use a blocker the entire time and let him stay in the back.
  
  And the graphics... Beautiful. Nuff said. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: htafc3stars
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 12, 2006 11:31 am PT
Review:  A follow on from Most Wanted. Pretty much more of the same but with a few bonus tweaks.
  
  Underground I avoided like mad, that to me is not what Need For Speed is, however When I first 
 tried Most Wanted and the police were in the picture, I got used to it, although hesitant on first 
 few days.
  
  Now I am enjoying Carbon which is lets face it more of the same, a two-parter if you will, with 
 a little more extras, most are excellent.
  
  I am a believer that Need For Speed is just that and should stay Need For Speed and not get too 
 caught up with what other racing games are doing, however with trial and error Need For Speed is 
 becoming what it once was AND stil keeping up with the times.
  
  Great for Beginners and as you go on great for the hard gamers too.
  
  To be used to this version 
 and style of Need For Speed, I'd recommend playing Most Wanted first to fully appreciate what this 
 Carbon version is. Worth Playing I would think but I do hope Need For Speed doesn't get too carried 
 away with the Fast &amp; Furious style games of late are taking. We love Need For Speed, but still 
 I'm glad the police are still around and alittle bit meaner I believe. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FreyarHunter
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 12, 2006 11:16 am PT
Review:  System Specifications:
  Intel Core 2 Duo e6400
  1GB RAM@800Mhz (OCed)
  Geforce 7600GS (512mb VRAM) 93.71 Drivers
  SoundBlaster Live! 5.1
  
  I originally came into 
 the NFS series on the Need for Speed III rendition. Having started with the want to be a police 
 officer in this game, I always happened to enjoy the pursuit mode, and tried to challenge my friends 
 over LAN. That was over six years ago. Since then, we've faltered to a less intense version of 
 the series emphasizing customization over the need for atmosphere of illegal street racing of which 
 other... third party games attempted to emulate, but to a disaster.
  
  We've been through seven new versions through massive visual engine updates and new modes of racing. 
 Weve done our dragging in Need for Speed Underground, and our Street X in Underground 2. Weve 
 had our major brush with organized police forces of Rockport City in Need For Speed Most Wanted, 
 and escaped with Cross on our heels to Palmont City. This is Need for Speed Carbon.
  
  Need for Speed: Carbon is an interesting extension of the Most Wanted title. I say that because 
 there isnt really too much new stuff with the new title, aside from three major additions. The 
 first, being the Autosculpt feature, the ability to modify body kits and the like to have a more 
 personalized look for your car. Now, Im not one for body kits on my cars (primarily because I 
 feel it detracts from the original manufacturers intentions, but with this ability to edit the 
 kits to such a major degree, I feel like I have to see what I can do to customize the cars looks 
 till I get the look I want. The second feature happens to be the canyon races against various bosses 
 and various drift races. These will most likely remind you of the Japanese anime show Initial-D 
 as the lighting is very limited here, and the possibility of falling off the cliff is always a 
 major factor. The third, being a new Crew feature, allowing you to hire other racers (limited 
 however) that offer their services to help you win. You have the three archetypes: Blockers, Drafters, 
 and Scouts. Blockers act as a guided missile designed to disrupt other racers, however the blockers 
 have some help with that as they tap the enemy racer, they get off track, however when you try 
 to do the same, they barely budge. Then there are Drafters. Drafters get ahead of you to allow 
 you to gain a temporary speed boost by hiding behind them when activated to slingshot around them 
 and into the lead. The last are Scouts that mark the shortcut trails for you in order to save time. 
 However most of these seem to get in the way more than helping you win. The seemingly only supporting 
 type that is actually any good tends to be the blockers.
  
  However with these three new things, there are old things that made it back, almost like an exact 
 copy to be honest. In this case, Im speaking of the police AI and speech. As you can tell, I am 
 a huge fan of playing with the police, and trying to outsmart them, however through all my play 
 testing, I have not found a new piece of dialogue. On top of that, it seems like the audio wasnt 
 tuned specifically for Palmont as Rockport was. For instance, going off road into something similar 
 to the boardwalk (only it has a stone surface, not a wooden one) results in the notification of 
 going through a park. Theres not enough green to drive on to call it a park, let alone look like 
 one.
  
  There is one good thing. So far it seems like the police spawning seems to have been improved, 
 preventing them from just appearing off the sides of the road as you run by them; however it may 
 be the fact that there are less open roads to let your machines really rip.
  
  The EA Trax selection is still the mainstream music that youve been hearing in Underground, and 
 Underground 2. My almost immediate urge was to turn them off. However some good news for those 
 that turn them off: EA was nice enough to include some non-licensed music. That means that although 
 you turn off the (in my opinion) bad music, you can get some generic music that would fit the theme 
 a little more.
  
  The style of the racing is something a lot more serious than it was in Most Wanted. The cut scenes 
 end up giving you a huge amount of curiosity as to what happened the first time you were in Palmont 
 City prior to racing in Rockport. I wont say too much, however its been hard to tell if they 
 were using live actors again. My guess is that they were for cut scenes, but they made digital 
 models of them inside the cars for in-engine use.
  
  All in all this game is a good racing game, however your best bet is to not go in with the attitude 
 of getting a whole new game. Keep in mind this is best seen as a stand-alone expansion and youll 
 be pleased with the results. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kkt1978
Rating: 3
Date: Nov 12, 2006 10:53 am PT
Review:  it's very short, no actual damage just visible damage which is crap, no sun, no snow. The police 
 is stupid and very easy to beat compared with Most Wanted. Nothing new in this game. I think Underground 
 3 is more suited for this NFS, rather than Carbon. The team mate idea is very bad. In the final 
 stage of the game, the team mate is actually working against you. The sound tracks are cool. The 
 graphics is at the same level with Underground. The A. I. is vey easy. I finished the game in 8-9 
 hours of gameplay. This is very bad for a game with so much expectations like NFS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stdu007
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 11, 2006 4:51 pm PT
Review:  I alway love the nfs serie and this one remember me the good old day's of underground ... event, 
 custom car, good music, police chase, all these stuff and it's easy to play ... the only thing 
 wrong is the blur effect when you play after a couple of hour it's hard to see in the game but 
 it worth the money ... just try it and enjoy it ... it seam that the requirement of the hardware 
 is a little bit to low ... whit a 64 megs video card i presume that not the best quality graphics 
 ... but with my 256 megs every thing's run smooth ... some issue with the game ... it's hard to 
 load ... and sometime the game crash ... after a couple of verification on the ea forum it seam 
 to be a recurent problem i hope ea will made a patch soon 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skychao
Rating: 7.2
Date: Nov 11, 2006 11:43 am PT
Review:  Overall it was an enjoyable game, but the story mode is too short. Finished it within 2 days. This 
 is because there are ways of winning that are very very easy. One of these ways is the scout crewman. 
 If you are ahead of them, they get an extra burst of speed to try and catch up to you and lead 
 you. Using this information, the wingman is virtually unstoppable in things like speedtrap and 
 even in races. My scout won more races than me in fact about 3/4 of them were him. The other 1/4 
 was the bits that you cant bring a wingman into. Overall it is a good game, but not perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacenwon
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 11, 2006 11:34 am PT
Review:  i wasn't a huge fan of the nfs line until underground hit a couple years back. this title takes 
 the cake though. awesome graphics, smooth gameplay &amp; pretty cool story line. sort of reminded 
 me of gta in a sense... think so?
  
  my favorite thing about this game is the classic muscle cars, as well as import tuners. everything 
 from the classic shelby cobra, to the current concept challenger.
  
  if i had to pick something i didn't like about this game, it would have to be the difficulty to 
 handle the rear wheel drive cars on turns. but then again, they've always been tough to control 
 on the turns no matter what title you play.
  
  bottom line though... if you dig nfs titles in the past, this one is by far the best one. hands 
 down, in my opinion :-) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZCracker
Rating: 5.3
Date: Nov 11, 2006 11:22 am PT
Review:  Hi! I just finished playin NFS Carbon and i can say it is too short. Where did go theta great cop 
 chasing sequences wich we loved so much in Most Wanted.
  
  Gameplay is OK but it coud be much better althugh now is hard to make the car to 300km/h theat 
 add's level of realisam to the game!
  
  A. I is bed to worse. Team mate in races is just a problen and it does not provide any help. But 
 the all NFS games have bad A. I. so it is not a very big minus.
  
  Sound is OK but may sound effects are copied from previou NFS games so it is kind of borring to 
 listen same cop chat all over again.
  
  Graphics I can not judge because i can play on max detail but on the mid setup game look just fine 
 maybi to much of a blue color is used to represent night.
  
  And finaly the game is OK for fans and some new players. Maybe the game create some new fans but 
 generaly speking it is to little new elements in game to make it wort remebaring.
  Just another NFS! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Antraxspore
Rating: 7.9
Date: Nov 11, 2006 8:36 am PT
Review:  I starte to play NFS: C 4 days ago. The Idea of the game was great however EA didnt put so much 
 efort in its develompent. There world is small ike 1/3 of MW i think, there are actually only 4 
 boses compared to MW. Some races are to easy an some to difficult. The game is totaly unbalanced, 
 when u begin racing to beat the last boss ur car has aboslute no mach with the one of your competitors. 
 There are 3 different car lvls In the first one u will find cars like Mazdas Rx7, Comon Mercedes, 
 in the second u will find cars like Porsche cayman and in the last the good cars: Carrera GT, McLaren,....
 
  When u enter the zone of the last boss all ur competiros have corvetts and Carreras GT , Skylines 
 !! And u gave the dump lvl 2 cars, to unlock the lvl 3 cars u need to beat a bit races which is 
 as difficult as ...... .
  Canyon races are the MOST unfair races ive ever seen, I was with mi Corvette which is a muscle 
 car racing against a LAmborghini Murcielago which is a exotic car and guess what I wasn able to 
 push him down the cliff I rammed it at 250 Km/h and the Murcielago didnt move istead of that my 
 corvette was thrown against the inner side of the track while it spinned like crazy.
  When Cop chase u it a joke it very easy to escape I NEVER got busted on Carbon while in MostWanted 
 it costed me a lot to escape and I got busted more often.
  The only think I give this game that amount of point isbcs i like racing games, the sound is great 
 the graphics to and its Need For Speed 
::::::

::::::
UserName: windsong27
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 11, 2006 4:09 am PT
Review:  This game could be the best franchise of need for speed games, But it way to short and a piece 
 of cake i just bought the game yesterday and iam already 50% of the game meaning a person who knows 
 how to play the game finish it really fast, but i think the online multiplayer is great and challenging 
 specially the Canyon challenge with pressure points i love pressure points!! it makes your blood 
 boiling for concentration who ever the first person to loose concentraton loses! and great cars 
 like evo, lotus, aston martin, mazda, and etc to players who read this review still planning to buy 
 the game make sure you have a DSL connection to cool things off in online play and for new players 
 i advised to get the RX-8 first for you first car. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: salmanj1
Rating: 7.6
Date: Nov 11, 2006 1:59 am PT
Review:  Need for speed carbon is kind of a continuation of nees for speed most wanted but Its a HUGE copy 
 of juiced !! literally
  
  The Crew Thingy and the sign thingy and the taking over turf thingy A BIG COPY
  
  Anyways the 
 graphics are good gameplay OK and sound (EA trax) BAAD!!! its so bad it smells!!!
  
  The one thing I liked was the crew thingy!!!
  
  During a race u could tell ur crew member to 
 kik the guy behing us ass real hard and of course also show u shortcuts and what not
  
  Cross ROCKS when he says GUESS WHOS BACK
  
  Its awesome
  
  Id rate it 7.6 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Joshua6609
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 10, 2006 11:14 pm PT
Review:  I love the Need For Speed series. I've been buying every single game since Hot Pursuit 2 came out 
 new for Playstation 1. So, with the fantastic game that was Most Wanted last year, and hearing 
 how EA was going to add muscle cars this time around on the same engine, I couldn't wait! Well, 
 sometimes the wait is better than the actual game. I played it for about 5 hours when I first got 
 it, got to about 50% in game, and getting there was cool. The cutscenes are great, the gameplay 
 wasnt that bad, and the graphics were decent. I finished another race, and as it went back to 
 the menu, it crashed. After saying some words Gamespot would censor for sure, started back up, 
 and continued. Overall, the game crashes a TON. The graphics need tweaking, but Im running it 
 1600x1200 with 4x AA and about half the extras turned off/maxed. The game was pretty good, dont 
 let the poor score I gave it hold you back, but everything just isnt there. I honestly think the 
 reason EA does these night games {NFSU, NFSU2, NFSC) is its EASIER for them to make. In Most Wanted, 
 they put bloom in, dynamic climate, clouds, it looked amazing. Now its your going down another 
 dark ally, and seems a bit dull. The other thing is with the cars. 80+ cars you say? No. Get 100% 
 in career and you still only get about 40. The game, in an attempt to get you to play the minigames, 
 have the cars locked till you do special challenges and races. So if you buy this game because 
 your favorite car is in it, you may be disappointed. Overall, EA can do better. Go back to Most 
 Wanted, put all the cars in an environment like that, add a few things and you got a game. Get 
 Carbon if you feel you need to kill a rainy day, thats about it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zonelezz
Rating: 7.9
Date: Nov 10, 2006 3:21 pm PT
Review:  There has been many different types of Need For Speed racing games that has hit the racing genre. 
 Many fans of racing will remember Need For Speed because of its licesnsed vechiles and arcade type 
 racing, from having exotic cars to import cars has show how far Need For Speed has become. Last 
 Year EA had released Need for Speed: Most Wanted, a type of racing genre that lets you customize 
 your new to old rides and take it up against other players as you progress through the game. Adding 
 new features like cop chases, and letting you win other racers rides was the biggest step in making 
 import racing a fun game. Now that EA has got the hang of the import racing, Need For Speed Carbon 
 is a game that uses the elements from its predecessor to make a step forward in import racing game 
 yet something seems to be missing.
  
  In the story of Need For Speed Carbon, you play as a annoymonus racing character from RockView 
 Port. This character was also in the last NFS series Most Wanted . You are back and have just came 
 out of jail, things have changed in the city. Cross is back again, and this time hes a bounty hunter 
 trying to seek you out. Clans of racers have taken territories and clam that its theirs. Each of 
 the racing clans will fight for territory while you do the same and try to make rep for youreslf 
 in gaing territories. There are up to 4 different types of clans that you will encounter and try 
 to take their territory. Each of them consist of a boss which leads the team into races. EA has 
 gone into making not just import rides but also adding muscles and exotics giving you a wide brand 
 in choosing the rides you want. You as the annoymunus racer will take these challenges and try 
 to take back Palmont City and claim it for youreslf.
  
  In the beginnig of the game, there is different modes that let you play. You can play solo which 
 is also called the career mode, Quick races mode and online mode. Having to choose online mode 
 youll be able to choose your own rides through career mode or just a set car that is made by default. 
 Quick races are just races that you can choose from and having default cars to play with. There 
 are 3 types of cars you can choose from in the beginning of the game including Exotics, Muscles, 
 and Imports. Now depending on which car you choose from youll have to stick with that genre for 
 a while before you can choose a different type of ride. Youll be able to customize each of the 
 car genres depending which you like. Customization comes from mufflers, roof scoops, front, side, 
 and back skirts, etc... These features have been upgraded more so that now you are able to set 
 sizes, width, length of the kit. These can look great at most times, yet it jsut seems to be a 
 watse of time doing it when you dont get much prizes for it. Having not just customization on parts 
 of the car, you can fine tune many parts of the interior of the car like engines and sort. Depending 
 on how you progress through the game, each level you finish youll get new customization tools added 
 into the menu of customizing your ride. There are 3 different levels of engine customization including 
 amature, intermidate, and pro. These will increase the stats of your ride by bits by bits depending 
 how you want to upgrade it.
  
  As we know the latest racing movie of the summer was Fast and the Furious: Tokyo Drift. A racing 
 movie that added a new technique of racing called Drifting. Drifting is a technique invented by 
 the Japanese during the street races in the mountains of old times. What this implies im simple 
 terms is that a car basicaly slides around turns instead of using a simple turn. So EA has took 
 that technique and implement into NFS: Carbon. This is a great idea, yet it does not seem to work 
 at all. Youll be able to customize your rides for drifting but depending on the car you choose, 
 just a simple turn will be enough to get you around the corners. The problem with drifting is that 
 many of the cars just dont work and can spin out of control like lets say the exotics. Lambougins 
 are nice rides, and we all like to drive one in reality. But the car is just so fast that you can 
 spin out of control on each turn leaving the cpu pass you by with no problem at all. Having not 
 just the controls bad, the useless cars driving around the city are back. Each time you run into 
 these types of cars or even slightly bump them your car immideiatly slows down to 0 MPH. This can 
 get frustrating for most gamers and espically on the last lap of a sprint mode. EA tries to implies 
 this game is arcade type racing yet when you hit a car you totally stop in motion. How is that 
 arcade racing i dont know.
  
  Now there are differnt types of races in this game. They include sprint, drift, free roam, and 
 racing. Sprint is basicaly like your time trial races to get to one point and to another. Drifting 
 is a new type of racing added in which lets you take your ride and drift as much as you can to 
 get points to take the lead. Free roam just lets you drive your car around the city and check out 
 different shops that are around town. Free roam is nice but you really dont need to use it much 
 because you can just select world map and travel to the location you need to go. Last is racing, 
 which could use a little more tweaking. IN racing there are 2 different areas that youll be able 
 to race in. The city and the mountains. When your racing in the mountains youll be able to do a 
 mode which like cat and mouse chase. If your the cat, youll have to try to sta ahead of your opponent 
 to when the race, and vice versa. The other mode is in the city in which youll race up to 6 different 
 cars. Each car will have a side kick that helps out including Blockers, Drafters, and Scouts. Blockers 
 are basically guys that stop your opponent from racing and advaning further form you. Drafters 
 are speed demons, that let you travel at a faster rate when your behind them. Scouts are racers 
 that can give you hints on short cuts through the maps. In racing, blockers are basically all you 
 need because they can stop your opponent from advancing further from you. Most gamers wont even 
 need scouts because while your driving and looking at your map, youll be able to find the short 
 cuts youreslf and while looking on screen. Drafters are speed demons so called, but jsut get in 
 the way. They will try to give you a boost if your behind them but sometimes they will just stop 
 driving and youll hit them and making you slow down totally.
  
  Graphicaly this game looks great on PC and xbox 360. There are nice glossy looks on the cars paint 
 and on the roads. The motion blur is back again, but this time its just gets in the way. When your 
 racing and going really fast the motion blur kicks in leaving you totally blind from the road and 
 not being able to see where you go until you slow down. The city is big and gives the gamer a lot 
 of areas to explore when racing or using free roan mode. Cars look exactly like the real models 
 in reality and is a great impresssion that makes you wonder how much one of these cars really cost. 
 When your driving your car through the city, you can pretty much hit anything in your way. But 
 sometimes youll hit a dead smack wall and youll think it was a lamp post or parking meter. Things 
 get destroyed in this game as your racing which is a unique game play style that works well for 
 NFS Carbon. There are CG cutscenes in this game depending how far you progress through the game. 
 The characaters are made using motion capture and looks great yet a little corny at times when 
 it comes to speech. EA has gone so far in making this game in graphics that they should've jsut 
 sticked with one or 2 console systems. Having it look great on the PC and 360 is great, but when 
 gamers buy the game for the DS or PSP they will get a whole different feel of the games graphics.
 
  
  We all know that import racing is all about fast beat soundtracks or big bass themes. These types 
 of songs are back again and has a great feel when your racing. Youll get music from techno mix's 
 that are really upbeat and big bass R&amp; B soundtracks that make you feel like a high roller. 
 They work well when your actaully racing against your opponents and even on the hill side. Sound 
 effects are not so great in this game and yet rather annoying. When your racing during the streets, 
 your side kick will literally annoy you like no tommorw by telling you what position you are or 
 how close you are to the finish lane. When a gamer plays they dont need someone else tell them 
 what to do, thats the whole point of a game is to learn for youreslf while playing. Another issue 
 is the car tires and the screeching. When your driving and even a slight movement of the car, the 
 tires screech like it was doing a 360 degree loop or donuts. This can get very irriating and can 
 drive a gamer insane while racing. There are some bad side effects of this game, but the car engines 
 and turbo for the cars sound great when you turn the music down and let the engine purrrr like 
 a kitten.
  
  All in all i think that most gamers will feel disappointed in this great franchise of racing. hopefully 
 the next NFS game wont be that bad and will make it like Most Wanted did. For you fellow gamers 
 that want to try this, rent it before you buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_InJimid8tor
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 23, 2006 8:37 am PT
Review:  Well I finished my first Career in Carbon using the Tuners the other day and did most but not all 
 of the Challenge Series and only a few in the Quick Races mode. No Online racing tried at all as 
 of yet. Awful laggy and disconnects
  
  For the Career:
  The cinematic movies were more of a serious note this time around but still fun to watch in a moving 
 live 3D comic book kind of way. I won't reveil any spoilers but it did end in an odd kind of way. 
 Expected better or more to it than what it led to. I was Asking myself, That's it ???
  Anyway it was not a big deal.
  
  The graphics were very nice even on my now old and outdated 
 ATi X800XTPE AGP videocard but the blur feature is not supported so I cannot comment on that. I 
 never liked it anyway.
  It was probably the limit of my videocard but The in-game movie actors eyes and teeth were barely 
 noticeable so blame that on the limits of my Vid card. The starting line girl was rather bland as 
 well. Tied back hair No hot pants or bikini's but an old military uniform? Was she borrowed from 
 an old Battefield 1942 game?
  
  The Crew idea was ok but sometimes they just seemed like they got in your way while racing. But 
 they were kind of funny characters! They don't know there right from there left either. ROTFL!, 
 You can turn off your crew member in Quick Race mode though
  
  Besides those minor setbacks the Environment was great looking as always and of course full of 
 eye candy neons buildings and shiney street reflections with steam from manhole covers and a Full 
 moon lit sky with moving haze going across it so it wasn't really as dark as the Underground series 
 were.
  It just looked very nice. Maybe we'll get shooting stars and bats in the next one.
  
  Racing into the night again was enjoyable after Most Wanted's evening racing even though I 
 use to scorn it in the Underground series as not having an option of both Day time and Night time 
 included in the game. It does make those corner directional arrows easier to see with older aging 
 eyes ;)
  
  I guess the way old EA looks at it now as most racing on the streets really happens in the night 
 time in the city. So thats the way they go with it. Not sure about future NFS games but would like 
 a change and get away from city life with maybe there next rendition.
  
  Still mostly racing in City streets (Again) and Highway and no country roads to speak of besides 
 the sharply curved Canyon duels and also drift events which I miss personally from my older NFS 
 game heritage.
  
  Sprint-Circuit-Speedtrap-Free Roam etc.. are back as in the past games but there seemed more extremely 
 sharp turns and U turns in Palmont City in this game. UGH! Man my arms hurt from steering this 
 MOMO wheel!
  
  Seemed more like a wall banging event with cars than racing.
  Of course you can use the Speedbreaker feature to slow for the corners but to me that's not racing. 
 Free Roam is back similar but not quite like in Underground 2 and can go from star to star on your 
 map where the normal races are and Boss races (which by the way you cannot do the boss races over 
 again after there done and won) but your mostly running from the beamed them in Scotty supercops 
 in there supercars and SUV Rhino's that have an amazing way of doing 360's and go into forward 
 and reverse and sideways quicker than you can say sheit with there Super transmissions &amp; block 
 you in instantly if your heat is high on your meter. You can pay to lower your heat or change your 
 cars looks or get a new car. But that stinks after all that work and time and money you took to 
 customize your prized ride.
  
  It's a bit over the top and can be awfully annoying. It's what makes short tempered people punch 
 there monitors and cuss at EA Games.
  
  Also in Carbon' Free Roam you can get Rival Crew Challenges but seem few and far between. They come 
 along on occasion and pull up beside you and they challenge you to a race. You accept by hitting 
 enter and the Map comes up where you can set your finish line, Be careful here that your heading 
 in the right direction beside them as there is NO countdown! It's just Go when you hit accept or 
 enter! That's Another thing not thought out very well. Besides that there isn't much to do in free 
 roam after Career mode is done and re-doing the races only pays a measly $500 bucks and $1000 for 
 race rival challenges. No hidden Races to search for or Easter eggs like extra money that I have 
 found? Kind of sparse with the exception of a lot of traffic you cannot turn off in the options 
 in Career. Nor set a Easy-Medium-Hard setting either.
  One of the annnoying things about this is when your racing your rival crew challenge you pass through 
 different Crew area's or even your own and the Oversized text pops up on the middle of the screen 
 so big it tends to block your view and lots of times I can't see in front of me to see where I 
 am going and crash into an obsticle and of course lose the race.
  
  Not very well thought out! This is also having the mirror and all screen info enabled.
  
  Drift 
 had a more controlled feeling or more grip all through the game. There was a sence of Underground 
 2 in the canyon races as when you raced down from the hills to go into the city and those winding 
 roads. So it felt familiar but in a different place. Even some places reminded me of racing NFS: HP2 
 only at night and seemed very familiar like I had done this before and I automatically knew which 
 way to go! Just coincidence I guess. The cars, Well what can a car guy say but awesome. If I give 
 EA anything at all it's there car model rendering and car sounds! No there not Simbin GTR sounds 
 but there still pretty good! I may disagree on choices of cars they put in a game but In all my 
 car games they do them very good! At least on the outside that is! As for the inside? One of there 
 downfalls, There isn't any option for an in-car cam. Just Close chase Far chase Hood and Bumper. But 
 they call themselves an arcadey type of game company so don't ever look for that in-car feature 
 again. Gone with the DoDo bird! Probably gone forever to are the horn and nickname licence plates 
 that were fun to have online, Nope Not in Carbon as in the past four games. The three classes or 
 Tiers of cars as they call them do all handle differently. But I don't like racing a Porsche GT 
 or 911 Turbo while I am in a 1968 Camaro SS with all mods trying to keep up with it. Even if I do 
 win. There's just something wrong with that in my mind. I think classes would have been a better 
 choice and kept them totally separate but some people just don't like separate classes, People 
 would complain that all cars are unavailable to race but as soon as they get there be-hind handed 
 to them by a faster car they would cry foul. Go figure! Guess thats why they have rubberbanding. 
 It's sad... In career I did not see a way to turn off the catch-up/rubberband A. I feature although 
 they were not as bad as in NFS MW were. You can in Quick Race though.
  
  On a Cars in the game note, It seems there are Cars missing? Maybe there there after doing so many 
 events But I do not see them even listed at how to unlock them. I have read you can only unlock 
 these after so many races and wins online, Please say it isn't so EA! So in the PC Collectors edition 
 I have no Official EA list of cars.
  
  Where Is the 69 Road Runner? Is it in it? It's not listed in any of the Challenges Online Career 
 or Reward Cards.
  
  The 2007 Mustang GT 500 Shelby? Not listed in the game
  
  I only have 34 cars unlocked in my stats so far and no where near 20 listed as to be unlocked? 
 Whats up with that?
  
  But yet again Like Most Wanted, Some cars are not able to be customized and not available in Career 
 mode like the Concept Camaro and Audi LeMans! That's a kick in the nuts! C'Mon EA! You sure know 
 how to get under someones skin!
  
  Make all the cars available in Career and customizable! I don't want to go to the PC online store 
 to unlock them for a dollar or so. Unlocking cars and parts online is pathetic!
  
  Challenges are in three stages Start pretty easy at first but some get harder as you advance as 
 it should but some tasks seem unrealistic or maybe insane is a better word. But Here again is the 
 only way you unlock some more cars and parts if you want them. Reward Cards you need to check to 
 see what you need to do to unlock more cars and parts. Reward Cards are in four parts to a square 
 to fill and to do some of the things that they want you to do seems a bit of work or take an incredible 
 amount of time to accomplish. You can just run your cursor over the square and it will tell you 
 what you need to do. IWhat you need to do or finish will be in Yellow I think someone over there 
 at EA's development team who designed this is smoking something illegal! Oh I have a lot to do! 
 Oh the Pain The Pain! You even have to go online and win races to unlock stuff and with this game 
 that could be eternity with EA's lag-a-lympics online servers interface. I might just say screw 
 it. Bye GTO ,Bye Porsche and probably a couple others.
  
  Customizing is probably the most fun thing to do and sometimes annoying thing at the same time 
 besides racing in this game since Underground 2 and Porsche Unleashed. The Parts menu doesn't seem 
 to remember your last place you were after choosing a part and/or going to photo (key #3) to see 
 what the part looks like on your ride. You hit Esc and it doesn't stay at say Vinals and goes back 
 to the start of the parts tab like Bumpers or something. Oh well. The part is in your cart, It just 
 goes back to the beggining of the menu and you have to scroll back through to where you were or 
 what you wanted to go. UGH! But there is a lot of carry over of car parts and vinals from the previous 
 games of Undergrounds and Most Wanted. Who would have thought huh! Of course there is a lot of 
 new and cool features included as well.
  
  Autosculpting is new and a bit of fun but limited to only autosculpting Need for Speed Carbon made 
 only parts for the game and not the Licenced Aftermarket car parts. Well you can chop the top of 
 your actual ride and mix Autosculpted hood and spoilers with Aftermarket body kits etc.. But not 
 all parts like a body kit has it's own tailpipe tips and cannot add your own or resize them. Some 
 are nice and some well, You know Just Fugly!
  
  It's not Underground 2 in the customizing department by far! I used to bash the Undergrounds but 
 the customization was a big part of that game and NFS: U2 still can't be beat for that.
  
  Things in NFS: Carbon you cannot do: No Scissor or Gullwing Doors or trunk lids, No Engine/trunk/underbody 
 neons or paint, No Mirrors, No Headlight/Tailights No colored NOS, No Hydraulics. No customizing your 
 guages, No Brake rotors or calipers, No Audio systems ,No Wheels with Spinners and No Carbon Fiber 
 trunk lids or body kits. (Sorry if I missed some) . Just Hoods only. Geesh! Could you spare some 
 Grey Poupon? How about a to go packet of Frenches?
  
  Anyway What you can do is move the vinals they give you all around 360 degrees rotation. Mirror 
 them if you want. Enlarge or make smaller size. Move up/down/left /right and skew. Paint just about 
 any color with a slider and color pallet. You can be very creative if you put your mind to it.
 
  
  On the controller part.
  
  Not real happy here personally.
  
  Dang them! You cannot re-assign/re-map the Look back/Camera Views/pause keys to your MOMO Wheel 
 controller or any wheel as far as I know! Duh! Bangs head on wall. What were they thinking? Well. They 
 weren't!
  
  I just don't believe it! Besides that I have no other problems that are game related to my controller. Although 
 I hear FF vibration from others has been non existant. I keep it off anyway. If I want a massage 
 That's the wifes job! :)
  
  Replays; There is no replay feature to watch those sweet rides you made in action, Just a photo 
 shoot that is still to close to the screen at it furthest distance using the number 9 and 0 keys.
 
  You can upload 10 screens to EA website as long as your signed in.
  The pics look nothing like what you see on your screen. There stretched.
  Just so disappointing 
 it hurts.
  Underground 2's was pretty good even if it did play in segments.
  To bad they did not incorporate that! It's a sad day in Need For Speed land.
  
  Well If you 
 have crashes to your PC's desktop Join the NFS Carbon Crash Club! I personally haven't had anymore 
 while in-game Racing crashes since I de-Fragged but have had a few while scrolling through My Cars 
 and vinals and sometimes just through the menu.
  
  Usually happens because of a memory dump but have it cleaned out and set very high and well enough 
 allocated for any game. Only happens with this game. Others are fine! Hardware, Software issue, 
 User error. Game itself ? WTFknows.
  
  So all in all though I like racing Need For Speed Carbon even with it's flaws that I hope are fixable 
 in time it even though some events are real easy and some are just overwhelming at times like 20 
 invincible cops on your tail encounter chases which just agitate me more than being fun to play. 
 Customizing the rides are cool but could be much better with more things to be able to add modify 
 and to make it more enjoyable than it is.
  
  Adding More races in free roam like they had in NFS: U2 hiding here and there and money would have 
 been a nice easter egg hunt and a way to make cash to buy more cars or whatever. $500 bucks a race 
 win is to little. We need more to do in Freeroam Black Box
  
  I never thought I'd say this but I kind of miss Drag Racing. In paticular the Undergrounds style 
 of Drag Racing, It would have been the cats meow with all these Muscle cars! Wheels in the air smoke 
 rolling off the tires brake stands, etc... Now that would be cool!
  
  URL type of races and Street X were some great fun too.
  
  Well another year and another let 
 down with EA's online, Even with there 1.3 patch it didn't change anything but for helping with 
 connections. You cannot see a list of hosted named pits. Ewww. Not good! Those in a Clan Group or 
 close community will not be happy with it at all!
  
  Man I'd even take Underground 1's online at this point!
  One thing EA is really bad at is there 
 online! Can we say GameSpy!
  
  Yuppers It's Fun, I like the night time, Sence of speed with some of the cars is incredible! The 
 Cars themselves, The city lights. But in the long run It could have been much much better and less 
 confusing menu and easier to unlock items than it is which makes it more frustrating and disappointing 
 than a good time.
  
  Don't like's
  
  No Replays!
  
  No Lan the ammount of cops and intencity. unlocking cars and parts in online mode. the overly long 
 cumbersome tasks to finish some races to unlock things in Challenges the boring free roam after 
 career waiting for a Rivals challenge race the Menu popping up blocking my view when rivals challenged 
 during a race. (Did anyone test this at EA?) hard to find a rival challenge quickly not being able 
 to map pause/lookback/view funtions to my wheel
  
  No pretty starting line girls
  
  Various Crashes to Desktop.
  
  So take it for what it's worth. Even though I critisized the 
 game and the Developers for how they make there racing games and how they take this out ,Then put 
 this in or make something worse that doesn't appeal to my personal taste.. I still look forward 
 to each and every Need For Speed game made.
  Always will. Remember there are worse street Racing game's out there!
  Hey, Life's to short! 
 Just have fun while it's here!!
  Peace! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mosE_D
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 30, 2007 2:39 pm PT
Review:  EA is trying nice gameunexpected althoughextremely easynot a sit-on and play until you die 
 game butyou can have some fun with it and I really mean that! The thing I like about this game 
 is that the guys remembered to put drifting in it witch in the last few parts theyforgot that!!! 
 Anyway we should give it a fair score because its a nice game and  I think that they invested 
 some time and work in it, so... the earned it! Good job and keep up e_d loves you so you guys dont 
 have to worryYou have one fanthats likeenoughright? :) Just playing wit' cha!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luciotss
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 9, 2006 5:17 pm PT
Review:  very good, the graficos but could more good in the consequences in the car and in the track still 
 it is very to desire, I also I evaluated the game a base low wants to say that it has much to give 
 diversion to the player, therefore I prefer first need underground it and much more instigante 
 for the player, this and more than waited even for innovating in the curves and still having more 
 speed but and cooooolll... very good, the graficos but could more good in the consequences in the 
 car and in the track still it is very to desire, I also I evaluated the game a base low wants to 
 say that it has much to give diversion to the player, therefore I prefer first need underground 
 it and much more instigante for the player, this and more than waited even for innovating in the 
 curves and still having more speed but and cooooolll... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bignick217
Rating: 4.3
Date: Nov 9, 2006 6:29 pm PT
Review:  I really hate to say this, but this installment of the latest Need for Speed game is very disappointing. 
 First off I'd like to say that I love racing games. I'm a big fan of the Need for Speed and Gran 
 Turismo series. I played most wanted and loved every minute of it, although it took me several 
 months between work and college to complete it. Most wanted offered plenty of bosses, races, customizations 
 and plenty of cars, most of which were fully useable within the career mode.
  
  Having said that I bought NFS Carbon the day it came out naively expecting the same level of playability, 
 depth, scope and also expected at least some new innovations. I think the best way to present this 
 review is to divide it into sections describing the various aspects of the game.
  
  Graphics:
  
  Gorgeous!!!!! But thats it.
  
  Difficulty:
  
  You'll notice I didn't give 
 the game a difficulty rating. This is because there wasn't a choice which best fits this game. 
 The game literally goes from one extreme to next. The first 3/4 of the game is extremely easy. 
 If you played Most Wanted the physics are almost the same with just a little more emphasis on counter-steering 
 (especially when using muscle cars) which didn't bother me because I prefer the rear end of the 
 car to break loose when cornering, because if you can control it, there's no better way to take 
 a corner while maintaining your speed. So having said that, if you played most wanted, it will 
 only take a couple of races to get the feel for the game. I started the game with the camaro ss, 
 and to my surprise, even with the additional cars which I unlocked along the way, I didn't buy 
 a single one. Why? Because I was able to complete all three of the main districts with only the 
 camaro. Granted I upgraded the parts along the way, but using the camaro, I didn't lose a single 
 race race. It wasn't until I after completing fortuna, that all hell broke loose. After completing 
 all tier 1 and tier 2 races with only the first tier 1 car I ended up in races with nothing but 
 tier 3 cars, which were leaving me in the dust and even after buying a couple different tier 2 
 cars (keep in mind that at this point, there are no tier 3 cars available for purchase) , I still 
 couldn't make any headway. Finally, I say screw this and went back to my camaro and focused on 
 doing the checkpoint races, and one of the sprints, and finally I unlocked a tier 3 car. From there 
 I worked my through until I unlocked the corvette and then I crushed the game, because the corvette 
 just makes short work of everything making the game extremely easy again.
  
  Plot:
  
  Very Simple! Four Districts. Four Bosses. Defeat Three Bosses. Uncover the truth behind your framing 
 (this happens in conjunction with first three bosses... very short) . Defeat last boss. Could have 
 done with a lot more races and bosses.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Very much the same as Most Wanted although it felt much more generic. The free roam world was in 
 no way awe inspiring and didn't make me feel like exploring. I did for a good while but ended up 
 resorting to jumping to races because there was nothing to motivate me to keep exploring other 
 than the odd race, but if you made one mistake in a corner in free roam, the cops were on you like 
 white on rice. There are no free roam goals such as the speed cameras that were in Most Wanted. 
 As for the customizations of the cars, while the autosculpt feature was cool, it was limiting in 
 its variety of different layouts. The guys at EA didn't seem to put the effort that they did in 
 Most Wanted when it comes to the overall customization options. The only thing which gave you a 
 lot to choose from was the different rims you could use and how great the muscle cars looked with 
 the autosculpted charged hood. The thing about the gameplay that bugs me the most, is that they 
 put a lot of great cars in the game, but most of them can only be used online and the quick races. 
 I payed extra for the collectors edition specifically because I wanted the extra cars (particularly 
 the Camaro Concept) and then I find out that I can't buy, use, or customise them in career mode. 
 They can only be used (again) in quick races and online. The angle of having a wingman to help 
 in a race was cool but I found that the wingman got in the way more than he actually helped. I 
 found often found myself cussing at my wingman more than the other racers. My biggest gripe though 
 would definitely be having so many cars to choose from but only have a max of 7 cars which you 
 can have, customise and keep in your garage.
  
  Sound:
  
  Cars sound ok. Music sucks. What happened to the real music.
  
  Stability:
  
  This game 
 constantly crashed on me. There were moments during gameplay where the engine revs on my car would 
 disappear, making it very difficult to race as I only race with the transmission set to manual. 
 It was particularly frustrating to have it crash after just defeating a boss. There are other bugs 
 in the game as well, but there's no point to go into too much detail.
  
  Replay value:
  
  You beat the game in one class, but don't unlock all game cars. You then start game again in 
 another class, but don't start with cars which you unlocked previously and don't unlock them again 
 for use with other class. So basically it seems like you'll end up having three careers, all with 
 different cars, have to race the same races over and over again to eventually hopefully unlock 
 everything, which you didn't truly , and I mean in a gratifying way completely enjoy the first 
 time around. So... whats the point.
  
  Bang for Buck:
  
  Considering how short this game is, that the bulk of this game is built up in unlockables. The 
 fact that some of the unlockeables can only be unlocked via online play, which isn't very good 
 for people without an internet connection. Oh but here's EA's response, give EA extra money and 
 they'll unlock it for you. WHAAAAAT!!!!!!! NOOOOO!!!! Is there no low they won't stoop to, to suck 
 more money out of hard working people. Conclusion:
  
  Quite frankly, Need for Speed Carbon just doesn't deliver to the standard of it's predecessors, 
 when it had the potential of being so much more. Keep your money and save it for a game more deserving 
 of it. EDIT: I was forced me to choose a difficulty at the end of writing this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sage215
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 9, 2006 3:34 pm PT
Review:  Well I bought the game on day 1 and ended it later on. The game is good but not all that good. 
 From start to finish the game is good, there is really no way you cant diss this game. The wingman 
 control is a nice touch but is it really worth it. Who in the right mind would actually race around 
 a city with there team mate and block the enemy. They say this is based off real street racing 
 more like bs. I have seen, went and been in real street races in my days and I am only 19. The 
 mechanics are more into arcade style gameplay then into realism. This is no Gran Turismo so do 
 not try and compare it. The games as before doesnt really get in deep into car mechanics. So with 
 the money you have you'll buy engine upgrades with range from upgrade one to whatever number it 
 stops at. Unlike gran turismo you start from upgrade after upgrade after upgrades example you can 
 get port polish, turbo stages, NA (Natural Aspiration = all motor) weight reduction, roll cages. 
 Remember gran turismo is a driving simulation with over 500 something cars and Need 4 speed not 
 even over 50. So you really cant compare NFS to Gran Turismo, I am not dissing NFS is just some 
 people compare games the wrong way. NFS is overall a nice arcade style game, it has nice graphics 
 and really responsive controls around each turn. Each battle has an intensive feel wanting you 
 to play more until you beat the game. So what next when you beat the game? Well theres online gameplay 
 and car customizations. The Drifting in the game is more as I say arcade style. All you have to 
 do is push the e-brake buttons and turn the car and you will magically drift (Seems unreal to me 
 duh!!!!) . Since they say the games is based off real life street racing, drifting must be really 
 easy in real cars not!!. In real cars drifting is harding then you think, from shifting to first 
 gear to fifth gear. If you really want to get a real good challenge drive and drift the game using 
 the manual stick shift settings. Its easy to drift using automatic but manual is the closent thing 
 you are going to get for realism. Over all I give the game 8 for trying something different as 
 for realism I give it a 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: muhammmmed
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 9, 2006 8:24 am PT
Review:  the best game play in series and graphic either car classes is new outstanding idea and the crew 
 idea is also useful and the online play and ranking the players in need for speed official web 
 site make it so special than any other need for speed the pursuits in game not much but who cares 
 also the career mode is too short that's make the online player comes so fast after you finish 
 the career mode and lot i mean lot of cars and the night races make the graphic so much better 
 this game rocks it worth higher rating than it will ever get 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soniworks
Rating: 4.1
Date: Nov 8, 2006 11:13 pm PT
Review:  Since I'm a huge fan of the NFS Series, I went out and got this on day 1. This game is a total 
 disappointment, first things first... the graphics are great and all, but what the heck happened 
 to the realism? The cars turn like crazy at high speeds, the E-Brake doesn't do what it supposed 
 to do. On Drift mode... drift mode??? Jeez... well done EA you blew drift mode right when the hype 
 was on, I mean with Tokyo Drift out and all... you really should of done a better job with the 
 drifting, heck... the car even gets pulled by some unknown force after the apex of each turn... 
 and you still haven't learned... FWD cars can't drift! The music was bad, some of it (75%) I didn't 
 even hear in-game, this adds up to somethin' the guys who were making this game have no idea what 
 street racing feels like and what the life-style of a street racer's like. Tuning anyone? I mean 
 what the $%^#??? Why do I unlock parts in unordered way? I unlocked parts that are better first... 
 and worse later. This game is so mixed up when it comes to unlocking stuff. Most of the time you 
 won't even know you've unlocked things coz' the game doesn't tell you that. The TIRE system is 
 the worst, I wanted to play with TIRE 1 cars through the game but you can't coze they are can't 
 be tunned like TIRE 3. And there is a cool formula used in this game, when I played Underground 
 2 it was fun roaming the streets heck even in Most Wanted (which wasn't as good) , but in Carbon 
 you won't feel like it at all, you'll just want to finish the races and get this game over with. 
 This game has so many glitches it hurts. There are 80% of the songs that don't play in-game, lots 
 of buttons unmappable, I mapped my clutch to C button and now I change view of the car while clutching 
 at the same time... why? Because EA didn't bother making the change-view button mappable. The game 
 crashes for most of the players, it even crashed on my PC a few times. Why did EA rush this game 
 so much??? And released it full of bugs. Overall... total disappointment, as a very big fan... 
 I don't like this game at all, when you play the game you don't feel exited or anything and you 
 don't get the feeling OMG!!! Can't wait to unlock that . Not worth the money, not worth even if 
 it's for free... yes, it's that bad. Well hope they take their time next time making a street racing 
 game and put more time in the engine of the game... coze this time it killed it. The realism of 
 it and the bugs-friendly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aquabl00p
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 8, 2006 10:37 pm PT
Review:  this game is like so cool its like grand theft auto san andreaes in racing mode like how they try 
 to take over ur teritory the cars are so amazing!!
  i love the autoskulp or wat ever u spell it nice varity of cars i love how the drifting is back 
 in this game its great ,the big black guy is also back in the game u can see all the lights cause 
 its 24/7 in the dark!!! nice 8-)
  u gottaa love and hate the cannon duels. AMAZING graphics nice selections of venylus or how ever 
 u spell that too. its so ausome 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shock_the_Rock
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 8, 2006 8:13 pm PT
Review:  This edition of Need for Speed is fun to play, but the career mode is very short. The Canyon races 
 are a fun addition.
  When it was announced that EA was releasing a new edition of Need for Speed, I was excited. I've 
 been a long time fan of the series, taking the good with the bad when its come to the progression 
 of the game play. Need for Speed Carbon is a good solid addition to the long lasting series. Let 
 me give a rundown of the games features and what I think of them.
  
  Career Mode: The territories give you a goal to work towards. You don't feel like you're racing 
 the same races over and over again. The difficulty ramps up as you play so the races end up being 
 fairly balanced. No longer are you able to take the first car you buy and race it against the super 
 cars, making it more realistic. The only problem with it is that its relatively short.
  
  Challenge Mode: Provides a nice set of challenges to unlock extra gear and cars. It seems like 
 there could be more challenges though.
  
  Teammates: I have a love and hate relationship with my team. Sometimes they're really great to 
 have in the race, assisting you in your wins. Other times it feels like they are getting in the 
 way, and have actually caused me to lose a couple of races because they've wiped me out.
  
  Races:
  
  Circuit and Sprint - These races are pretty much the way they've been since the debut 
 of the Underground games. Your goal is to be the first across the finish line. Its pretty much 
 classic NFS Arcade style Racing.
  
  Drift - This mode makes a return from the Underground games after a hiatus in Most Wanted. The 
 mechanics have changed so that you can actually get some nice long drifts going around the corners. 
 I actually prefer this version over the drifting in Underground 2
  
  Checkpoint - You race alone against the clock, given a limited allotment of time to get to the 
 next checkpoint. These races can be hard towards the end if you haven't upgraded your car because 
 you simply wont be able to get down the track fast enough before time runs out.
  
  Speed trap - These pretty much work the same way they did in Most Wanted. The advantage this time 
 is that you have a teammate who can help you win the race, since they are usually pretty good at 
 keeping good speeds around the track.
  
  Canyon - A welcome new edition to the series. They can be very challenging at times, and its very 
 exciting to hurtle down the side of the mountain without knowing if the next curve is going to 
 send you flying off the edge of the canyon. The only problem with these is that there aren't very 
 many of them in the game.
  
  Online: I haven't played the online mode very much at this point, but the couple of races I have 
 played it was a good time. You're limited to the cars you've been able to unlock with the Career 
 and Challenge modes, but since the career mode is fairly short, it shouldn't take too long to get 
 enough cars unlocked for it to be enjoyable.
  
  To sum everything up, I've had a lot of fun playing this game since I got it on launch day. If 
 you're a fan of the Need for Speed series, you should enjoy this game quite a bit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hoosjoodaddy
Rating: 3.7
Date: Nov 8, 2006 1:04 pm PT
Review:  Wow EA! You made a patch for NFS: Most Wanted but it was too big to download so you just made another 
 game out of it? Good Job! Yea this game is the same stuff you've seen over and over and over again. 
 I mean i loved the NFS series right up until after UG 1. This game has pretty bad handling, damage 
 appearance is horrendous and of course the game is still in closed circuit racing. We have seen 
 waay too much of this repition, and now we should be sick and tired of it. I would suggest not 
 buying this game and save our money for something better in the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: apek-kun
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 8, 2006 11:06 am PT
Review:  Need For Speed Carbon is probably one of the most anticipated driving/racing game this year. Scheduled 
 to released 31st October here in Malaysia and 1st November worldwide. I knew about the pre-order 
 campaign through Gameaxis magazine and I was quite shocked when I saw the pre-order price is only 
 RM79.00!!. So, I ordered the game online through The Software Boutique and I the game arrived at 
 my doorstep a day after the official launch. Ok, lets proceed with the review shall we?
  
  The Contents
  
  So, whats inside the box. Lets see, theres the game disc and bonus dvd, 
 a black and white manual, an EA game guide, err.. Thats about it, and for the first 50 who pre-ordered 
 the game got a nice lanyard and a poster for those who self-pickup at The Software Boutique outlet. 
 The CE here is different from ther region I guess. Not that many goodies inside. I didnt get the 
 lanyard because maybe Im the last who pre-order the game, during the first Hari Raya, thank God 
 TSB Ikano was opened.
  
  The Game
  
  At the beginning of career mode, you are being chased by Cross (a cop from NFS: MW who apparently 
 have become a bounty hunter) until your BMW M3 got totaled. Then you met Nikki and have to choose 
 a car from 3 category, Tuner, Muscle or Exotic which each represent by a Mazda RX8, Camaro SS and 
 Alfa Romeo Brero respectively. Each category is totally different so if you want to unlock all 
 the parts, you have to play all three types though the storyline is probably the same. A new race 
 format is canyon duel. Its a two stage race between 2 racer and each racer take turns being the 
 leader and chaser, which feels pretty much the same as Initial D except for the point system where 
 the closer you get to the car in front, the higher the score. Even better if you passed the the 
 leader and all you have to do is to hold your position for 10 seconds and youll win the race. 
 Also, drift event makes a comeback in this one as theres no drift in NFS: MW.
  
  A new addition to the gameplay is wingman, a fellow racer which can help you during races. They 
 are three types of wingman; blocker, drafter and scout. A blocker is a blocker, the name says it 
 all while a scout is responsible for finding shortcuts and alleys and leaves behind a trail of 
 light so that you can follow easily. A drafter is the one who drives in front of you and can help 
 you go faster by minimizing air pressure around your car. However, you can only bring one wingman 
 to the race.
  
  Another great addition is the autoscuplt. Here, you can customize your car to your own desire although 
 theres not much of a choice of parts. The vinyl section is in my opinion the most interesting 
 among all NFS series. This time around you can move, scale, rotate and skew the vinyls to your 
 hearts desire. And you can put the sticker wherever you want on the body. But the main drawback 
 here is that its quite hard when you have to do all that with a keyboard.
  
  Visuals &amp; Sounds
  
  The graphics are simply superb in this one as well while some might 
 argue that NFS: MW have better graphics. To me, NFS: MW is beautiful because of its sun or bloom 
 effect and in NFS: Carbon, its the motion blur. The in-game cinematics remains the same as NFS: MW 
 where real actors are used and blend together with CG. Its nice but to some, may be cheesy and 
 lame as well.
  
  Meanwhile, the sounds in this game is quite good. No more EA Trax which previously features popular 
 artist such as Snoop Dogg, Styles of Beyond and Disturbed. No more hardcore rock and hip-hop music 
 either. Just musics like that used in the movies. No more singing during races I guess. Whats 
 annoying is the voice of your wingman. They just dont know how to keep quiet and constantly yelling 
 at you. To me, the wingman is like a football commentator. If only theres an option to shut them 
 up.
  
  Final Thoughts
  
  In my opinion, this game is good but not great. All you need is two days to finish the career mode. 
 If youre a hardcore player, a day would be suffice. However, the challenge mode is not easy and 
 might takes some time to finish. The career mode is just too short. You only have to fight only 
 4 bosses while in NFS: MW, there were 15 bosses. Thats a huge difference. Another problem is that 
 this game suffers from bugs. Constant crashes and stuck while quitting the game are mood killers. 
 Imagine this, you are winning a race in online mode, then when you cross the finish line the game 
 crashes. How annoying is that?? Plus the ending is, well, unsatisfying and disappointing. I was 
 like, Is that it?? Thats all??. The wingmans voice is annoying though sometimes you cant win 
 the race without them.
  
  But theres also things to love about NFS: C. What I like about the game is the drift event as well 
 as the car customization. The canyon drift is great. Feels like watching Initial D anime. If only 
 theres a replay capability in this game. The car library is big by the way. Probably the biggest 
 among NFS titles. Bottomline, its a good racing game and if you like NFS series or arcade style 
 racing, give this game a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: --ZyoX
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 8, 2006 10:57 am PT
Review:  This game comes very attracting, well, for me it was. I bought it on the fourth of November, so 
 it was the day after release here in Europe.
  It sounds really good, as well as I've seen images and trailers. So I thought that I should buy 
 it now when I don't have anything to play. As I said, this game is just too short, and I actually 
 mean too short. It took me only three days to finish this game off (did it yesterday) . The story 
 is quite alright. I like the flashback movies, they're in some nice graphics, but when you actually 
 see the people in the game, there are some edges and bad details. The best parts in career mode 
 I think is when those cops chase you, that rocks. It's fun because you have to put in your skills 
 of driving in order to escape those 'fox tails'. The highest amount of cops I've had chasing me 
 are 134; that was just great!
  As well as one thing, they've taken away some visual and aftermarket stuff here in Carbon if you 
 compare it with Underground 2; like neon lights and lamp editing. I've wanted to have those things 
 back. But in Carbon, they've put in more vinyls.
  
  The graphics are nice when you put them up to something like I did: 1280x1024 in resolution and 
 High in details, as well as some other advanced settings in the video options. It's mainly the 
 cars that have all those nice graphics, as it's their main focus. And the environment, but it's 
 still low in details. But it's alright, what more do you actually want to see, right?
  The sound is the best I think, it follows very good as the game moves on. Although I don't pay 
 any attention to the music a lot, they're still ok.
  Gameplay is the terrible part. I've only spent 14 hours to complete the career mode. I've still 
 got the challenge mode to play, but that's another thing. And everything is so easy!
  
  So I say that it's not quite worth it, unless you're a NFS fan/collector.
  But still, I had some 
 days of street racing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wispluII
Rating: 5.8
Date: Nov 8, 2006 2:16 am PT
Review:  I think this game is a non usa produce. I am from europe, romanian and if i will make any mistakes 
 in the writes, happends. This prodece don't worth even the efort of downloading the demo. The EA Games 
 Sucks this year. not even FiFA immpressed me. Fifa Sucks too. And That golf game 07 aa.. Tiger Woods 
 PGA Tour 07. ALL EA SUCKS 2007. Maybe next year will do something about it. You Can read even my others 
 revews. I work at Piranha bites in 1998-2002 so i now something about this games. but like i sad 
 that those games sucks, i think at the producer at the EA Games and i think he is saying to him 
 (I'm a fool that i did't listen this gamers) that's why they have a forum on their site. To say what 
 do you fink about the fifa 2008 or 2009. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: novice_sdf
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 7, 2006 10:25 pm PT
Review:  pretty nice effects. improved driving feeling. good work with the music. One huge minus from me, 
 the road configuration. little minuses: the story, the bosses. Back to the roads, who built them 
 that way, i mean somebody at ea must have used a paintbrush and no logic for these roads... or it's 
 just me who isn't able to remember them : (
  the graphics are great, but as expected, the engine from MW and the fact that it's night time means 
 no colors.
  Also impressive is the thing with the cops, they are able to roll over your car, not caring if 
 it's a light tuner, a medium exotic, or a super heavy muscle car.
  I have reached a maximum of level 3 in pursuit, but i was busted in a few seconds, being surrounded 
 by police cars, they came from all directions and i also hit traffic so... my fault
  what else... it's a good game after all. not great, but good. if you have an older computer like 
 I do, you won't be able to enjoy the eye-candy. Bye 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xiongsy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 7, 2006 7:30 pm PT
Review:  THIS GAME ROCK BUT STORYLINE IS TO SHORT, WHAT THE HELL WERE EA DOING. Actually, this is the continue 
 story of Most Wanted. Because the Cross (AKA SERGENT CROSS) and you were sill dring the same vehicle (BMW 
 M6) . I played this game for only 3 hour and i aleready get 15% complete. Yeah the drif are cool 
 but where is the DRAG (MY FAVAROTIE) ? The police is still back but where is the LK (Lap Knockout) .
 
  Maybe EA were tired for making NFS series and have not idea what next NFS series should have. So 
 i recommand EA rest for a year and develop NFS series with more cool stuff and most inportant is 
 the STORYLINE SHOULD BE LONGER, so that you don't waste my money for buying this game and my time 
 for playing this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lathos42
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 7, 2006 5:38 pm PT
Review:  When it was announced that EA was releasing a new edition of Need for Speed, I was excited. I've 
 been a long time fan of the series, taking the good with the bad when its come to the progression 
 of the game play. Need for Speed Carbon is a good solid addition to the long lasting series. Let 
 me give a rundown of the games features and what I think of them.
  
  Career Mode: The territories give you a goal to work towards. You don't feel like you're racing 
 the same races over and over again. The difficulty ramps up as you play so the races end up being 
 fairly balanced. No longer are you able to take the first car you buy and race it against the super 
 cars, making it more realistic. The only problem with it is that its relatively short.
  
  Challenge Mode: Provides a nice set of challenges to unlock extra gear and cars. It seems like 
 there could be more challenges though.
  
  Teammates: I have a love and hate relationship with my team. Sometimes they're really great to 
 have in the race, assisting you in your wins. Other times it feels like they are getting in the 
 way, and have actually caused me to lose a couple of races because they've wiped me out.
  
  Races:
  
  Circuit and Sprint - These races are pretty much the way they've been since the debut 
 of the Underground games. Your goal is to be the first across the finish line. Its pretty much 
 classic NFS Arcade style Racing.
  
  Drift - This mode makes a return from the Underground games after a hiatus in Most Wanted. The 
 mechanics have changed so that you can actually get some nice long drifts going around the corners. 
 I actually prefer this version over the drifting in Underground 2
  
  Checkpoint - You race alone against the clock, given a limited allotment of time to get to the 
 next checkpoint. These races can be hard towards the end if you haven't upgraded your car because 
 you simply wont be able to get down the track fast enough before time runs out.
  
  Speed trap - These pretty much work the same way they did in Most Wanted. The advantage this time 
 is that you have a teammate who can help you win the race, since they are usually pretty good at 
 keeping good speeds around the track.
  
  Canyon - A welcome new edition to the series. They can be very challenging at times, and its very 
 exciting to hurtle down the side of the mountain without knowing if the next curve is going to 
 send you flying off the edge of the canyon. The only problem with these is that there aren't very 
 many of them in the game.
  
  Online: I haven't played the online mode very much at this point, but the couple of races I have 
 played it was a good time. You're limited to the cars you've been able to unlock with the Career 
 and Challenge modes, but since the career mode is fairly short, it shouldn't take too long to get 
 enough cars unlocked for it to be enjoyable.
  
  To sum everything up, I've had a lot of fun playing this game since I got it on launch day. If 
 you're a fan of the Need for Speed series, you should enjoy this game quite a bit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maagi
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 7, 2006 4:53 pm PT
Review:  Short version : Good :
  
  - Pretty nice graphics, but sadly not as good as in NFS-MW, in my eyes anyway.
  - Music. The 
 score is, again, better than average, thanks to various artists.
  - Autosculpting. Eventually you can pretty much make your ride look whatever you prefer, inch by 
 inch if you like. Good option for standard parts.
  - Teammates, in theory.
  - Videos are nice as always
  
  Bad or just worse :
  
  - Doesn't look as good as NFS-MW, 
 in my opionion.
  - Autosculpting. Doesn't go as far as one could expect, ie. doesn't let you go to ridiculous settings.
 
  - Teammates only work as an idea, but not in action. Too often they're no use and might even slow 
 you down.
  - Short. After few hours, you're already at 50% mark.
  - We've already seen all this. Besides adding new fancy name, EA might as well stick with NFS Underground 
 -label, as this is like NFS Underground 2.5
  - In my personal opinion, I don't like driving at night only. Most Wanted was much more fun mostly 
 due daylight driving.
  
  And now for the longer version...
  
  EA once again makes you to do a comeback, and sadly, with pretty much same setting as last time. 
 Only difference is that instead of losing your car, this time you crash it (and thus, naturally, 
 lose it) , so you gotta start over again. You have your nemesis to insult you, street cop to keep 
 an eye out for you and a chick to help you out. Talking about familiar...
  
  Once again, you race, earn money by doing so, just to upgrade your car and race some more. This 
 time, cars are divided into three categories - tuned, exotic and muscle. Tuned one's are supposed 
 to turn a bit quicker and muscle cars pretty much accelerate you to the moon, while exotic one's 
 are somewhere between, concentrating more on the top speed I guess. There isn't a whole lot of 
 difference between all the cars, but muscle cars do seem to take turns in a different, more torque-way 
 than others, and since I had played all three previous games of this line, I went for the muscle 
 cars, starting off with Camaro SS and moving on to Charger R/T after first area.
  Sadly the categories do not reflect in amount of new cars that well, but after three games of same 
 kind, I'd say they have pretty good selection regardless.
  
  One new thing in game is autosculpting. This basically means that instead of buying a default front 
 bumper of some sort for example, you can buy a customized (by yourself with sliders) one. So now 
 you can pretty much create a car that looks as you'd want it. Except, well, not. You can't do ridiculously 
 low cars, or vice versa, ridiculously high above the ground. Skirts don't get low enough IMO, but 
 that's just a question of taste I guess. Nevertheless, the feature adds some funfactor to the game, 
 even when I basically ended up doing things pretty much the same way the original, un-customized 
 part was.
  
  Another new thing are the teammates. In bigger races, they'll drive for your team, and depending 
 on their special skill (scouting, bumping etc) , they may aid you if you wish. For example, scout 
 goes through all shortcuts, leaving a trail of'em into your map (he also informs about'em by audio) . 
 Bumpers/whatever they were however, try to knock off your competitor if you wish to do so. This 
 usually means spinning of the said car.
  As tactical as the setting may sound, it's tactical only in lesser degree. Scout's work pretty 
 well, but the bumpers require pretty much to be very very close to the opponent you want'em to 
 crash into. So, if you're having a car you want it to bump ahead of you and your teammate is behind 
 you, it's not going to happen. Also, teammate can be also of great harm for you. Quite often, especially 
 with scout's, they tend to come with excessive speed from the shortcut, even when I didn't take 
 one. This usually results in a highspeed crash to, namely, me. Same thing with bumpers, except 
 that they tend to stay behind you, instead of ahead.
  The best thing about teammates is, that also they can win the race for you, so as long as either 
 you or your teammate cross the finish line first, you win. Sometimes it even usefull.
  
  That's pretty much it for the new stuff. Most of the parts to your car are pretty much the same 
 as before (but then again, it's quite impossible to just invent new parts) . Driving reminds me 
 more of NFS Underground -games, than NFS Most Wanted, sadly. In NFS-MW, I liked the daylight driving 
 the most, the fact that you always saw things clearly, and rarely had to guess where this corner 
 actually cuts and where it quite doesn't. Driving in the dark also means, that cars look stupid 
 in my eyes. If you don't have car reflections on, they look like they'd be painted with matte-colours, 
 even when they're painted with chrome-colours, and if you put some reflections on, the car light's 
 up like a christmas tree. It's either don't do at all or overdo it , which kind of sucks. Also, 
 due constant darkness, possible colours for the cars are quite limited really, or at least they 
 are to me.
  Night-time driving isn't the only thing reminding me of Underground -series, the city makes it 
 almost 1:1 copy of NFS Underground 2. Sure, it isn't the same by a longshot, but it feels like 
 it was build by blocks and now they did the rubic-cube -trick and just switched the pieces into 
 new places. Some places seem even too familiar.
  
  Overall, I can't say the game would be bad, but it is short. If career mode is half-done after 
 2-3 hours of driving, I can't recommend this to anyone who've played quite a bit of NFS Underground 
 -games. They're just too similar to pay a full price for Carbon. Only reason I can think of, are 
 the few muscle cars, that may satisfy certain people into those kind of cars. And even if you haven't 
 played the Underground -series games before, I'd still recommend getting NFS Most Wanted over this 
 one, since you can get it quite cheap by now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: goloap
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 7, 2006 3:50 pm PT
Review:  I have played all the NFS series game since the 3rd one. Enjoyed the good ones (Porsche Unleashed, 
 Most Wanted) and suffered through bad ones (Hot Pursuit 2) and it's too bad that this installment 
 falls in the second category. First off, it's quite short comparatively to Most Wanted. You only 
 need to win two races in each region to own that region and there are about 4 of 5 regions per 
 neighborhood. With 5 neighborhoods in total that makes for not too many races. Agreed that there 
 are other play methods than career, but career should be, for me at least, the main one.
  
  The graphics are ok. No incredible leap, just regular improvement that you would expect from a 
 new game. The cars are well detailed (pretty much the same as last game) without being amazing 
 and sensation of speed is very good in the game. The cut scenes used for the story line are very 
 nicely done and worth watching (it's not like you have a choice) .
  
  The sound seems to be the area which lacked the most effort. There is WAY too much tire screeching 
 sound during the whole game. Some times even in a straight line the tires would screech. It was 
 so strange for me that, I expected it to be a bug and went looking for a patch for it. The commentary 
 from your team mate are often useful to tell you when somebody is catching up or other info (at 
 least he is good for something) , but they become repetitive after a short period (you're first, 
 keep going..., watch out behind...) The engine sound is good and enjoyable, it accurately reflects 
 the state of your car although I sometimes heard a turbo backpressure sound when my car didn't 
 have a turbo.
  
  One huge disappointment was the blatant reuse of parts of Most Wanted. When you get spotted by 
 a cop, everything is the same: the sound, the camera effect and even the chit chat on the cop channel 
 almost 100% identical. And you could just save memory space by deleting the whole cop business 
 since they are not relevant to the game at all. If EA expects us to spend new money to buy their 
 game they should at least try to make us believe that it's new. One last point is that the game 
 is unstable for me. I don't know if it happens to other people, but it will crash about every 30 
 to 45 mins. It's an annoyment, but I think that EA knew about this, that's why they implemented 
 the auto-save feature.
  
  In conclusion, this is a purely business game. Low cost of development (seeing the end result and 
 the amount of reuse) and decent sales will look good in EA financial statement but it hurts the 
 EA franchise. However, looking back it's always the same a bad title follows a good one and a good 
 one usually follows a bad one; this makes me hope the best for the next one, because this one is 
 not worth much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gedus
Rating: 5.8
Date: Nov 7, 2006 11:21 am PT
Review:  well, firstly, i suppose that ea put everything what they HAD in this game. the graphics is just 
 like in the underground 2, nfsmw was more better comparing graphics. what is more there a lot of 
 very similar roads and streets and buildings from all of nfs series: nfsu, nfsu2, nfsmw... the 
 gameplay also is kinda boring, only the movies and new cars make it interesting. you can complete 
 game in like 6 hours or faster, coz all u have to do is just to win like 10 races and defeat boss 
 . races are easy, like I conquered first town part with first muscle car camaro ss with no upgrades... 
 well on other hand this game is one of nfs series, which means it has to be good and popular. nfsc 
 has much more cars, new types of races, i really like coz it has drift again, but im sad coz there 
 is no drag... anyway you have to try this game, if u like racing, tuning, and speed.. and talking 
 about speed its kinda stupid to get first car and ride ~130 miles per hour without any updates,,, 
 im not talking about fully upgraded car which is kinda flying at about 200miles per hour speed... 
 its totally nonsence.. at this speed u hit another car or what and what? nothing ;] ] just few scratches 
 and ugly broken window.. well have fun guys/ladies.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Calist0
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 7, 2006 5:01 am PT
Review:  in my opinion it`s the best in the series, although it`s not my kind of game but it`s great considering 
 the graphics. The ideea of NFS from underground till carbon doesen`t come with enything new and 
 it`s becoming borring. Still, i love the soundtracks (no more hip`n`hup`n`rapp`n`cool) and i think 
 this brings feeling to the game especialy the track when u race down the Cannyon... nice (but it`s 
 only my oppinion) . I hope the new releases of NFS will come with something new. Oh and another 
 thing, what`s with all that night , durring this game (beginning from underground to this one) 
 mornings seems to be absent, i know it`s cool to be racing at night but damn it feels like you`re 
 stuck in the realm of vampires. I think it will be nice to have the mighty Sun glowing on the cars 
 :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jsawiuk
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 7, 2006 3:56 am PT
Review:  1. The physics in this game is even more unrealistic than in any of the previous ones in the series. 
 The driving model in it is just ridiculous.
  2. The storyline is even dumber and more schematic.
  3. To make up for the lack of story, it 
 seems they decided to employ an even hotter actress for the main part.
  4. The game has one or two new concepts, apart from this, it is just NFSU2 combined with NFS MW. 
 5. Car damage is only superficial and does not affect your car. After a crash at 230km/h you just 
 have some mild scratches on the side door.
  
  OK, so these are the main advantages of the game. Now, to keep the review objective, let's list 
 some more of them:
  
  The graphics is absolutely fantastic; the pace of the game is like all the previous parts of NFS 
 combined with an atom bomb; the choice of the cars is vast, and they are all fully customizable 
 (and I mean CUSTOMIZABLE, thank you EA for the AUTOSCULPT option) ; the soundtrack is a mindblowing 
 combination of metal, hardcore hip-hop and techno, which is not music you would put in your ipod 
 to chill out while commuting, but it really goes well with driving 200 km/h with flames coming 
 out of your exhaust.
  
  So, aren't there any cons, you might ask?
  Yeah, I actually had some issues with my controller, but it's nothing that a 100KB patch from EA 
 can't do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: picatef
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 6, 2006 10:59 pm PT
Review:  Ok, let's see.
  Obviously, it's like NFS Underground 1/2, Most Wanted, but with the new canyon races that has some 
 fun, and the crew that runs some races with you and they help you blocking others, dragging you 
 or showing you the shortcuts. But the game is fun, it has some nice features.
  First, the zones system is nice, I think it's better than having big zones and a lot of races, 
 this time you have to win some races in little zones (about 3 races per zone) , and when you have 
 the majority you control that zone... when you control all the zones of another leader you have 
 to beat him in a single race and then, in a canyon race. And of course, randomly some bands will 
 challenge you on a race for the control of a zone. I think it's cool, it's like the band war from 
 GTA: SA. Most Wanter was nice with the things you had to do to challenge one driver from the black 
 list, and then to the top, but this works different, and is cool.
  The canyon races are nice, the add something new to the game, but I think they had to make them 
 much more interesting, like racing many cars at the same time in the races with the breakable sides, 
 but there are only 2 cars in the race.
  Of course the graphics are great, you can add a lot of things to the cars, make it prettier, and 
 all that stuff.
  
  Bad things:
  One thing i think is bad, is that the cops don't play a big role in this game like Most Wanted. 
 Ok, Most Wanted, the name itself means there are going to be cops everywhere, but I like to be 
 chased by the cops and breaking their cars. While playing the career mode i got only to level 3 
 once, and it wasn't that hard.
  Now, the thing I think is awful... the music. What happened with the real bands, great music with 
 power that makes your adrenaline ask for speed? Need for Speed, remeber? The music is boring, it 
 doesn't make you want more speed, specially the canyon races' music. It's... like native music, 
 or something like that... spiritual... no... no... i want some rock that makes me step the gas 
 and go out to the canyon!
  Another bad thing was the sound of the wheels... all the time, the wheel making gniiiiiiiiiing 
 . maybe in real life sounds like that, but it's annoying.
  Also, in my opinion the game is a little short. I think that Most Wanted was great in that way, 
 it wasn't too short or too long (like Underground) , and it wasn't so monotonous, but it's not so 
 bad neither. I'm not a fan of racing games, but it's fun to spend some time.
  
  Oh... and this game is made to play in Manual, not Automatic. It makes you think a little more 
 (just a little) and it doesn't make the game so easy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: n17r0
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 6, 2006 3:29 pm PT
Review:  Once upon a time, Need For Speed: Most Wanted was released. I wrote a pretty heavy review on how 
 it was a subpar racer. Fast forward to now, and EA shells out Need For Speed: Carbon. For some 
 reason I pulled myself to give the new addition to the franchise a shot, and now Im glad I did.
 
  
  As a whole, Carbons presentation is significantly better than the previous Need For Speed. The 
 first major notice is the disappearance of the Drag mode, and the addition of the new Canyon mode, 
 a racing crew, and Autosculpting. The Canyon mode is quite an interesting new twist on racing, 
 in which the goal is to follow your opponent as closely as possible (without hitting him or her) 
 to rack up points, and then switch positions putting you as the leader trying to ditch your opponent 
 on the twisted roads among the cliffsides. The closer you/your opponent stays, the faster you earn/lose 
 points. The objective is still have points after the two parts to claim victory.
  
  Another new mention is wingmen. You can choose from three types of racers to assist you on taking 
 over the streets. Blockers work to spin out your tougher opponents, Drafters give you a stream 
 behind them to race in for faster acceleration, and Scouts find you the shortest paths on the course. 
 The blocker and occasionally the drafter can be especially handy, but the scout is only useful 
 for those who have a harder time finding shorcuts in the Need For Speed series.
  
  The new Autosculpt ability is a nice touch, but seems to be a bit overhyped. It basically allows 
 the ability to shape custom hoods, roof scoops, and the like to your liking, although it may be 
 a bit dissatisfying if your liking wants to build your own custom looks rather than change the 
 variables of set designs. The customization of performance parts is a bit nice to allow tuning 
 of ones taste in how the car handles in a user-friendly way.
  
  The AI has definitely had some refining as well. The rubberbanding is not nearly as bad as in the 
 past few Need For Speeds, but it does get relatively bad near the end of the game, giving the difficulty 
 a sudden frustrating jump. The cops seem to be more unforgiving as well, making the police chases 
 draw out longer than some may like them to (especially for those who want to focus more on the 
 actual racing) .
  
  Going between races now allows more user preference, as races, safe-houses, and car lots can either 
 be driven to like before, or jumped to right from the world map. Races are also a bit more non-linear 
 as well, and to take over territories you only have to have won the majority of events in that 
 area (which is typically 2 out of 3) . So for those wanting to just blast through the campaign (or 
 for people like me who are not fond of the Drift mode) it allows you to be a bit pickier on which 
 races you want to run.
  
  The graphics in Carbon are definitely a step up, though in some ways it is not for the better. 
 Cars, though shiny, tend to look a bit plastic still and look like they do not fit in with the 
 rest of the environment, and though it adds a bit of realism, the way cars follow the terrain more 
 in ways of suspension makes them seem a bit unrealistically bouncy (though from the first person 
 view it adds much more realism) . The world detail is done real well though, giving the city a realistic 
 look. The melding of live and CG animation is almost a bit creepy this time around, as many cutscenes 
 have the faces of actual people on models that definitely are not the best rendered, giving a sort 
 of bizarre look akin to some unknown but sour taste in your mouth. On top of this, the acting is 
 pretty poor as well, and the attempt to try and make things more competitive through a drama-driven 
 storyline is laughable.
  
  Need For Speed: Carbon is a definite step up in the series, although it still has a ways to go 
 until it really shines. The attention to gameplay is better done this time around, although it 
 still seems like a bit too much time was spent on making everything shiny again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Caravan19
Rating: 7.3
Date: Nov 6, 2006 6:52 am PT
Review:  Not as Juicy as Most Wanted.. colors are flat ( i Know its a night game... but still) The wingman portion 
 was an added surprise.... will push your system (especially single video card set-ups..... sli will 
 be no prob.... everything is blurry... is that just me??? I miss Josie Moran Already.. A Very Dark 
 game.. not much color.. a prett y decent array of vehicles..... much eaiser to obtain money without 
 re-racing alot. This certainly isn't a bad a title... I was hoping for more after seeing what EA 
 did With Most Wanted I was wondering when EA might step up the resolutions for High End PC users 
 with wide screen becoming more popular (1920x1200) would have been great to see. It seems EA cutback 
 on the budgets of the PC division because Tiger Woods 07 leaves a whole lot to be desired.. (the 
 Xbox 360 is a complete different looking game) .. Come On EA.... STEP IT UP A NOTCH!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nite1
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 6, 2006 2:46 am PT
Review:  The developers of EA need some better ideas for the NFS series games. This is like a combination 
 of Need For Speed Underground 2 and Need For Speed Most Wanted combined with the same styles of 
 races and nothing much new added. The Career mode seemed really short as an experienced gamer can 
 complete it in 2 or 3 days. The added crew members seemed useless for most of the races as most 
 of them are easy enough to do on your own as long as you keep your cars/parts upgraded. The Pursuits 
 are no different from Most Wanted. Really the only feuture I liked was the added gang territories. 
 If you win the races you keep them, and later have to defend them from attacks. The Bonus Cards 
 seemed like an ok idea, but the tasks it gives you to complete them gives me mixed reactions. The 
 online bonuses idea is even worse, as some are very difficult to obtain depending on the player 
 skill level, it makes you wish they just made everything available in single player mode. Overall 
 this game does grow on you, and seems to be just barely enjoyable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: majidjahan
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 5, 2006 8:44 pm PT
Review:  hi dears
  i complete the career of game in 14hrs !! game play was nice graphics was beautiful but that's 
 very short underground2 is longer than mostwanted and carbon . i hope to next NFS except have very 
 nice graphics (DX10) that should have very long gameplay . a very nice game should have WOW graphics 
 WOW story WOW gameplay , in this year EA just wants to gave their fans a NFS game not a REAL Need 
 For Speed game . ookkeeyy now we just can prospect to next year and see EA &amp; nextgen GPU and 
 graphics AND Need For Speed . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danishhussain
Rating: 6.3
Date: Nov 5, 2006 7:57 pm PT
Review:  totally disappointing to me
  made too small and short, too easy , too unbelievable , too blah : (
  they just over did it with 
 blur effects
  they aint doing much on NFS now , everytime NFS underground engine is enhanced and released
  
 ended the game in just 6 hours : (
  Disappointing for me made too easy nothing new too short cant believe the turns and corners 0 LIFE 
 SPAN.. soo sad
  Quite an underwhelming game. I think these new NFSs are coming out too fast and are taken too lightly, 
 just a slightly modified NFS Underground engine every year.
  I would agree The Ground Breakers were:
  
  Need For Speed: Road &amp; Track
  
  Need For 
 Speed: Hot Pursuit 2 or Porche Unleashed ( Thats where the physics engine became great) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZlatkoZ
Rating: 4.7
Date: Nov 5, 2006 4:16 pm PT
Review:  I am 23 years old, i have played all PC versions of Need For Speed games in the franchise. I have 
 played everything from the original Need For Speed to Carbon.
  
  The problem from need for speed carbon is honestly that it should have never been made.
  
  
 I understand how companies work, they see a possible money making bandwagon and they will hop on 
 it, this is why i feel carbon was made. Have you noticed how much NFS shadows the fast and the 
 furious? This all started when the second fast and the furious came out and the first Undeground 
 came out shorly after... ever since then it has been a shadow dance between need for speed and TFAF 
 franchise.
  
  I strongly feel that need for speed needs to abandon this course of action, as the games are becoming 
 cheap looking, ricerish in nature, and focus way too much on illegal racing activities. I myself 
 was a street racer for approximately 3 years, and trust me when i say it isnt as exciting as the 
 games make it seem. There is not such a high corrolation between wealth/crime/street racing.
  
  The games overglorify street racing and this latest game is no exception, but instead of honda 
 civics, vw golfs, they have added supercars to the mix to balance things out, well im sorry, but 
 it does not work that easily.
  
  Need for speed needs to understand that not only 12 year olds play their games, a lot of us are 
 well into our 20s, and miss the old days of simple racing with no ricer looking cars with unecessary 
 large GT wings and ugly bodykits.
  
  Next point of dicussion is the acting.. why is it so unnecessarily bad? I mean, in the latest one 
 there is a character named Darius (Tahmoh Penikett) who's acting makes you want to cry, along with 
 secondary actors. Granted the acting has gotten better with this game as opposed to the previous 
 3 Underground based games, but make no mistake, the acting is VERY VERY cheesy, and it makes the 
 game very laughable in a serious overtone.
  
  Take for example Tahmoh who plays Darius, if you have seen him in Battlestar Galactica, you will 
 notice that he is a very different actor in that series, which leads me to believe that EA actually 
 FORCES actors to act bad and over the top, which is completely un-necessary.
  
  The 3D cutscenes in the game are also horrid, it is very difficult to explain but the way the computer 
 throws the cars around in an attempted menacing fashion also makes things funny, they will block 
 your path, or circle you like it's supposed to scare me or something, it DOESNT WORK. SO DONT EVEN 
 TRY, you only make your game look cheesier than it has to.
  
  Other than that, the gameplay is half descent, the physics seem to be getting worse im afraid with 
 the peak being need for speed hot pursuit 2 (pre underground) .
  
  It's really a shame how EA has allowed their games to get worse and worse, obvious sponsorship 
 cashgrabs have been evident throughout the game as advertisements from Mazda, Cingular and other 
 companies has overtaken gameplay and entertainment...
  
  I honestly hope that EA will at least try to clean up it's act and wait at least 2 years before 
 churning out another turd on the market, because as it sits right now, i will never play another 
 Need for Speed game ever again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: exigo89
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 5, 2006 2:26 pm PT
Review:  The only problem with this game is that it has no emotions in there. You take a car and cruise 
 round and round the giant city and occasionally finish a race. The previous NFS were better because 
 you knew what the game purpose was , basically you had to race there, but here , DAMN complicated. 
 They thought they would make the game better if they added the Autosculpt (TM) but hell no they 
 just made the game run you crazy because you basically have to hire a whole arsenal of people to 
 do some simple autosculp and there you can add only 3 members to your crew. One thing I liked was 
 the variety of cars even though they separated them into Tiers and it's not good. I want to take 
 a car and upgrade it from the beggining and I want to end the game with that car but in NFSC I 
 can't do that because I have to change the car a couple of times. Well there are a lot of good 
 other things and a lot more other bad things so hope they listen to us what o do in the next NFS 
 ( if there will be any) . Let 's hope 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PSPMAN7256
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 5, 2006 2:08 pm PT
Review:  i got the game the day it came out. that was last tuesday. today's sunday and i just beat it. the 
 storyline was good and so were the cars but they could have put way more into this game. i'd chose 
 M. W over carbon because it took me over a month playing M. W 2 beat it and i beat carbon in 5 days. 
 anyway EA put some good cars in this game like the gallardo the camaro concept the old hemi cuda 
 and others. they took out the drag racing feature i dunno why because that would go perfectly in 
 this game. there's only 4 bosses compared 2 the 15 blacklist members. money is easy to get and 
 after 20% through the game your never really broke. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gsharad007
Rating: 2.5
Date: Nov 5, 2006 9:26 am PT
Review:  this is by far the most boring nfs. everything is the same old same old. music, sound, graphics, 
 gameplay all have basically been copy pasted from old to new.
  
  few mins into the game and i hardly feel i am playing a new game.
  
  totally disgusting.
 
  
  few new game modes rather boring. new drift system is just one improvement over the previous games. 
 which is good but nothing revolutionary.
  
  sounds are almost exactly the same. same songs and music as before just i guess some changes (havent 
 really paid any attention to that yet) .
  
  graphics are same as before. actually the previous game graphics were better. canyon are practically 
 black textures where you cant even see the guard rail right in front of ur headlight.
  
  got bored and quit in less than one hour. total waste of money and time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NIGHTHAWKAK47
Rating: 7.2
Date: Nov 5, 2006 7:05 am PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong i love the graphics they are need for speedy the way they should be a little 
 bit cartoonish i dont want to see graphics like TDU or GT4 or even Forza it wouldnt be nfs anymore
 
  storyline is great cutscenes are too much and gameplay well let me put it this way NFS6 hot pursuit 
 2 was the best NFS: MW comes second and NFS: carbon comes third
  sound is great on my 7.1 dolby surround with my x-fi card.
  the cars are just wonderful the mustang 
 gt500 is just unbilievable in acceleration and the koeningsag and the gallardo Are out of this 
 world when it comes to combined acceleration top speed and handelling
  but my favorite would have to be the mazda speed 3 the handling is hillarious and u feel like in 
 2 seconds you will be in 6th gear. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cireking213
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 5, 2006 2:49 am PT
Review:  What is EA trying to pull by providing widescreen support for consoles and not PCs. I'm playing 
 widescreen on the Sims 2 and I even was able to hack my graphic rules file to get 1680 x 1050. 
 I have to do some ridiculous tweaking to get widescreen in NFSC. And this game was designed with 
 widescreen in mind.
  
  As for replays, I know some portions of the game, like the extended police chases, probably don't 
 work well for replays, but the other races where the police don't show up or the challenge races 
 should allow you to see the race in replay. I just had a challenging canyon run and I want to see 
 my driving skills and actually see these nice cars. I think EA is just being cheap and cutting 
 corners. The racing is actually fun, but two must have features (for me anyway) are tossed out. 
 This is my last NFS game and I will return it for my money back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Erratis
Rating: 7.3
Date: Nov 5, 2006 12:44 am PT
Review:  I have played the NFS series for a while, so I knew what I was getting into. The NFS stuff has 
 for the most part, always looked good in the graphics area, Carbon kept on track here. The complaint 
 me and alot pf players have is, we have played this game before. It might have a new name, different 
 cars, but the game is the same. The buddy system... I cant remember what it was called, was a good 
 point in the game. Being able to call on your friend driver to help was nice, WHEN it works. I 
 have had a bit of problem with the game crashing also. Not at certain points, just random. I would 
 reboot and it would run good again for a while.
  The game also lacks wide screen support, not a big problem, but I have a wide screen and would 
 like to use it. I have played a few hours, and am at 35%, but im already finding myself getting 
 tired of playing it.
  
  I would say if your new to the NFS stuff, this is a good game for you, but if you have played the 
 NFS stuff, it might not be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lancier1071
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 5, 2006 12:29 am PT
Review:  nice game ... nice drift mode ... canyon is a very interesting way to race... great sound ... good 
 idea with the crew ... change the way that your car look's is nice but it could be better. You 
 will find out that you need a short time to see how every type of car is going ... and you maybe 
 like one type more than others. After all is a good game that captivate you for some good hours. Try 
 it and see yourself ... maybe you will like it more than every body, for me was a nice occasion 
 to drive other cars in different styles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lollus0
Rating: 7.2
Date: Nov 4, 2006 10:58 am PT
Review:  An other year has passed and as usual a product from the NFS series is available, this time it 
 is Carbon.
  The main theme is same as it was for the last 3 NFS-s, you're a a car enthusiast who has plans 
 to become the biggest name in town, to achieve that you must beat your opposition and get use to 
 the annoying PD.
  
  The action in Carbon is taking place in a city called Palmont, there is 4 main regions in town, 
 each of those have their own leading crew, from whom you will take the challenge and eventually 
 take control of the district.
  
  This time you are given a opportunity to choose the class for you; tuner, exotic or muscle, each 
 one has it's own ups and downs, but basically they are all the same, just a car with an engine 
 and room to fine tune it :D
  
  Anyway, the overall quality for the game is good as always, but this time the game is looking really 
 short, it just ends before you can even start to get the hang of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ryan461
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 4, 2006 10:40 am PT
Review:  Need for speed carbon is a fun game to play. If your not sure you'll like enough to pay $50 or 
 whatever, rent first. Career mode is generally pretty easy. I played for a couple hours or so and 
 im 40% done. Handling for the vehicles is quite easy for most cars, so its really just about how 
 fast you drive. The crew members can be quite the idiots for getting in front of you and slowing 
 down. but they often help out too. They put drift racing back in. Now I've only payed Carbon and 
 Most Wanted, so I'm happy its there. It seems to be a little tweaky. For example if your on a mountain 
 track, they have some gaurdrails that are yellow and black, which you can go through and fail the 
 race. When you get close to these, the handling of the car seems to veer towards the railing, which 
 is really annoying.
  
  The physics is messed up in otherways too. You can be going 60 and hit someone head on. they go 
 flying over your car or to the side or whatever. Hit a cop when doing that, well they're kinda 
 like suv's from most wanted.
  
  the cop chases can be quite annoying. i find it very difficult to lose them even just at 2nd heat 
 level, and they play no important part of the game. they're just there to annoy you.
  
  finally graphics and sound. they are definately a downgrade from most wanted. not sure why this 
 was done, but whatever. the cars are a little fuzzy around the edges, and background scenery has 
 the old flat look to it.
  
  so yeah buy this game if you really like driving games, and getting your hands on realistic cars. 
 or just rent it for a consol. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2reddy
Rating: 7.7
Date: Nov 4, 2006 8:26 am PT
Review:  Yeah! Dodge Charger is in the game! That's a big plus from me to the game. But there should be 
 other magnificient cars in the game too. I don't wanna see another Mercedes. What's the deal wtih 
 the Clio v6. Small but powerful! Get out of here, its like a coffin with wheels. Now to the game: 
 Every shading is so shiny, that in real life, no matter how much you work on it, you cannot make 
 a car shin that much. Especially the metallic and the chrome paints...
  
  Drift race is back, was one of my favourites, but its gameplay is like arcade. Drift is no longer 
 a simulation, it is like old racing games, where your car do respond late and too much to your 
 controls. Canyon race is boring; I played CanyonDuel-like games, when I first got my license: Police-Thief. 
 One car is chased, the other tries to stop it. And I'm no street racer. It was plain fun, no danger 
 no harm... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: girik9
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 4, 2006 4:50 am PT
Review:  Need for Speed Carbon is the sequal to last year's excellent Most Wanted. Carbon removes some features 
 that were in Most Wanted, but also adds some features. Here are the good points and the bad:
  
  The autosculpt feature takes customisation to a new level. Now you can (in real time) modify 
 the look of your car. While the effects are visual, autosculpt is fun to use. Carbon returns to 
 the night-time racing. If you liked the urban environments of the Underground series, you will 
 feel right at home with Carbon.
  
  The Canyon Duels are a good (but not great) addition to the racing style. The problem is that canyon 
 racing can quickly become repetitive, although the races do present a challenge. The over-the-top 
 cutscenes are back, with some style. This time, EA has taken the presentation of the cutscenes 
 very seriously - with a good cast and a deep storyline. The muscle cars are another good addition 
 to Carbon. They provide an entirely new car class, and the experience is completely different when 
 racing with a muscle car.
  
  The graphics in the game are good, but not brilliant. Clearly the Xbox 360 version had the most 
 time spent on it. However, the visuals are still good enough to present a challenge to medium range 
 graphics cards. So, in conclusion, Carbon is not a revolutionary game, but it is a good addition 
 to the series. While it does not have the tense police chases that Most Wanted does, the other 
 additions make up for this fact - along with a solid multiplayer component. Carbon is a decent 
 game that is recommended for fans of the series. You might not like the game once you start, but 
 after playing for a while, you will come to enjoy the thrill that is Need For Speed Carbon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: g_man95
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 4, 2006 2:19 am PT
Review:  the game looks very bad the first time you play it but not the graphics the gameplay is very boring..... but 
 if you take the risk to play it you will find out that the game is great..... the tuning is great 
 the best ever made the sound is god and the graphics is beautiful.. the number of cars is huge and 
 the fact that you can choose from the tuner, exotic and muscle is great... the story is god for 
 a need for speed game... another great thing is the drifts that are very god this time it gives 
 you a awesome feeling
  
  so if you played the other need for speed games you definitely would like this one to 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stouph99
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 3, 2006 9:23 am PT
Review:  I'm starting to think NFS isn't getting better, it's just running around in circles. They're copying 
 the genre laid out by the last Fast and Furious movie... (oops I had to say it! sorry!) For instance, 
 I thought Most Wanted was really original! Cops everywhere and all!! Carbon looks like a recycled 
 game with a new crew feature added.
  
  One thing I must say for EA Games, they did a great job casting and writing for this game. There 
 are a lot of different characters and the story is great. The story is the reason why this game 
 has a leg up over Most Wanted. The multitude of in game movies add to the story line and keep you 
 in the game and wanting to keep going!
  
  The new Autosculpt feature is way cool and everything about the visual aspect to the car has been 
 improved and enhanced. You have more control over vinyls and you can customize a lot more visual 
 details than ever before.
  
  There's just one huge problem I have with this game, you can't look back when you're driving and 
 the Brake/Reverse key only breaks, it doesn't shift into Reverse and floor it in reverse for you... 
 Now you have to Break, Shift down a lot, put it into the Reverse gear, hit the gas and turn, and 
 Shift up twice to get into first gear!! Whoa!! Why did they change it to this now? And another 
 thing that has been annoying me a lot. Cops were awesome in Most Wanted. Where are the cops in 
 Carbon? Or the Bounties They're only there sometimes and they don't play a big role. They're just 
 there as a casual annoyance if you ask me. So far I don't see them playing a big role in the storyline... 
 If you're a die hard NFS fan this game may seem easy for you. I'm half way through the game already 
 and I'm still looking for a real challenge... Although this game seems to be on the easy side, 
 the positive thing is that you it is more entertaining because of the story and the characters. 
 Bottom line, even though I think it's just a recycled version of Underground 2 mixed with Most 
 Wanted, you still can't pass up this game. It's still classic NFS but with a way better story! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxxgangsta
Rating: 7.9
Date: Nov 3, 2006 8:59 am PT
Review:  Well, when got it home i thought that this will be a great racing game of nfs series like Most 
 Wanted . Carbon carier mode was very short , challanges borring , and those Cards that unlocks 
 stuff well SUCKS! But still i found out that i liked it , only races still has got it ( a bit ) 
 , I thought were is the DRAG , no MilleStone events , and canyon challenge doesnt have it... Simply 
 I liked Cops in MW you coud do so called millestone events , but here you have to go freeroam to 
 get cop atentions , i didnt like it and in the end of carrier a got car upgraded well like fully 
 , but still it rides like a junk.
  Thats what i think about this game and EA starts theyr games pretty nice but finishes ugly.
  
 And heres my Rewiev:
  Graphics : I would liked this game more if you could play in night and at day time , but still 
 cars dont crash , but cop cars are shiny and yours car allso but it doesnt have it.
  Gameplay: Arcade nothing more and i sayed before in my rewiev it Doesnt HAVE IT!
  Sound: Thats 
 what i liked it , the sound of brakes on turns realy made me feel like im realy driving there.
 
  So thats what i think , if EA in next NFS will put back Millestones , Drag , and cars realy be 
 Greater with their upgrades.
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Sry For Bad English ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: koltasXxX
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 3, 2006 7:25 am PT
Review:  From the start the game is amazing. It keeps you playing keeps you amazed , this time there is 
 a bit of a story , with awesome FMVs. The carrer is shorter this time but intence, there are a 
 lot of going on in the game it keeps you from being bored. Movies, tutorials, lots of stuff going 
 on in the world. In the last NFSs there was mostly nothing to do you had no purpose to run it feltl 
 ike you were just driving for money n nuthing more. This time it gets you in and doesn't let go 
 till the end. This is the only NFS game that i enjoyed completeing 100%, when you finish the career 
 there are challenges that are more interesting than the ones from MW + everything you do in quick 
 races , career and callenges , goes to the reward cards , 4 tasks and you win a custom part or 
 a new car, it keeps you going. MORE. Everything is tracked on line eventhough u aint playin on 
 line everything is recorded. And if u play on line you are ranked and can compete for the 1 spot 
 woohoo. Graphics controls and sounds are superb i dont even need to talk about them! ;] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zombie_2k
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 3, 2006 4:12 am PT
Review:  EA you rock. I bow down 2 you cause you promised something and you kept your word. Nfs is at a whole 
 new level. If you playd the olde series you gotta notice the difrences. And **** autosculpt.... wow 
 no words. EA u got 2 us again and i just cant imagine waht youl come up whit next. Who isnt a nfs 
 fan i strongly recomand that they play it. Who sais that Carbon is weak or worse they should have 
 theyr head examined. Cous this game rules. It is the Ultimate racing experience. Nfs has no match 
 EA games have no rival they rule couse they know what we want. But dont take my word for it.... play 
 the game and youl see 4 yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vampire3m
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 3, 2006 2:49 am PT
Review:  I played all need for speed series and i am one of the need for speed players. underground was very 
 good and must wanted was very very very good but this time ea games tried to make a perfect game 
 but not successful alot. but i love carbon like other need for speed series. it has a medium graphic 
 and good gameplay and good sund tracs but nothing is new. canyon tracks are amaising and wonderful. i 
 think ea games must focus on car's physics very much to be susseccful on driving games. need for 
 speed is still our good driving games for years and must try more to be a one of the greatest driving 
 game in all over the world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: a336061
Rating: 6.2
Date: Nov 6, 2006 5:16 pm PT
Review:  Let me start out with something i didn't see in the other reviews, especially with ones that review 
 the demo, this isn't a windows os release, check out the full product dood... anyway, in the world 
 of CARBON... there is no.... sun, thats right, completely night time, it doesn't even get a chance 
 to really show off some of the reflection mapping they've touched up. I did expect some better 
 textures by now, also a graphics engine that can handle motion blur without dropping fps. I ran 
 both the x360 version and the pc version on two identical monitors two inches away from each other, 
 they both have there quirks, but the framerate is way more steady on the x360... i don't have a 
 crap system by any means, 7800gtx, 2gb corsair 2-2-2-5, raptor raid array, fx-55, latest drivers 
 , and motion blur makes you seem like your going fast, which is good when your fps drops by 10, 
 even 20 with other racers on screen... besides the technical reasons. the nighttime thing will 
 probably get on your nerves if you notice it, so i'm sorry for mentioning it, some parts of the 
 game are even confusing sometimes, like... how do i buy a car, oh wait, you don't, or even the 
 first time you know, you try to buy something it's like... how do i buy these parts... so the menu 
 system isn't the greatest by any means, the races are fun, the wingman idea could have used some 
 touching up, the AI can drag you down real bad sometimes, problem is, he's on your team... it's 
 not a horrible game, and it's definitely not an amazement in any way, however it's not a Terrible 
 buy, if your a fan of the series and want something different, don't be afraid, get the momo wheel 
 and waste precious hours of your life
  
  UPDATE!!
  
  i actually played through the whole game, don't waste your life, it should have been an expansion 
 pack at best, ouch 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pagla88_basic
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 2, 2006 8:33 pm PT
Review:  well.. need for speed carbon is quite a good game..
  
  some players who gave bad rating and gave a bad review about carbon , they should think that carbon 
 was made quickly compared to NFS-5 PU .. NFS-5 PU was making it for like 2 years and carbon was 
 made like 1 year or less..
  
  so i should say that quite good game and its worth playing.. many modifying features are there in 
 this game like auto sculpt .. many cars .. and i also like the car classes thing .. i think EA 
 have made their best for this game in 1 year..
  
  well .. about the races .. drifting is kinda easy .. its like Tokyo drift ; Circuit is just right 
 .. and canyon duel is hard to me .. but to the others , it can be just right .. other races are 
 also good .. its not a time wasting game.. its a very fun playing this game .. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameAholic2004
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 2, 2006 3:02 pm PT
Review:  irst of right from the bat let me tell you i did not buy this game, how ever my friend preordered 
 it and hes staying over here. i tought what the heck, free game , installed and played for a while 
 ( 21% ) .
  I am tired of people not looking farther then the first few pixels. Personaly i dont get how people 
 call them self a gamer, if they have no intention in respect each game on its own. furture more 
 playing a game and understanding how one works are to different things, so people saying the game 
 play suxxxorz should take a moment, breath, thats it, then think how much gameplay can a ARCADE 
 racer bring ? iam so sorry this game doesnt allow you to shoot pregnant woman and fly planes into 
 a ferris wheel, and yes the abcence of hookers makes this game a drag.
  Come on!. Seriusly ? we need GTA! who the hell in his right mind compares THIS game to THAT. almost 
 makes me puke to have gaming as a hobby. Freaks. alright fine .... have it your way ill awnser 
 the question sigh .
  The gameplay in NFS: Carbon is much better then in the past series, starting with the new physics 
 engine.
  altough calling it a physics engine is a down right lie. The effects are true and steady. i tried 
 out all 3 types and
  found that all of them had there own riding style. Muscle cars tend to drift to left or right during 
 acceleration.
  Muscle cars also seem to have a bigger feel for the road. its hard to explain but the new physics 
 engine does have a great way of letting the player know how much ground contact and suspension 
 there having, with force feedback and soft visual movement. While muscle cars speed up more quickly 
 behaive resonbly well, but there top speed is lower then the other two types. The Exotic cars tend 
 to have slighy slower accelertion rating, they do how ever posses a massive top speed. on the straight 
 parts of the map you easy fly past the lead stick your favorite finger up and push on trough, while 
 you own the road, the most cars have a massiv understear having you brake sooner into corners, 
 while you lose time there the avrage speed of an exotic is higher then the other 2. The last but 
 not least are the Tuner cars, these are home grown standard cars that are pushed beyond there limtis. 
 they are easier to upgrade
  it seems most tuner cars get a smal bonus when upgrading. tuning has more options, either go for 
 accelerations and match the Musle cars ( you will loose but get close ) and battle them in the 
 corners with suprior handing, or go for top speed and drift to the corners, forget breaking, handling 
 is number one.
  The differance in care types translates nicely into the game. It realy matters, if your an agresive 
 driver you will mostlikly go with a muscle car, they thend to take the lead early and have more 
 weight in keeping there.
  If your more of a accurte driver Exotics are yours, if you master the corning your almost unstopable.
 
  Tuners will .. well go for tuners .... nuff said.
  The game play differs here, for an arcade racers, thats a verry god achievement. Why ? becuase
 
  most arcader racers dont take the care type in consideration, just top speed and accelation .
 
  with the lac of contenders in the arcade racer gerne, NFS: C wins head on with gameplay.
  
  So, now that that question is awensered, lets look at another great example.
  Ties is liek SO 
 BAD ! ugly !!!!!!! . ooooo rly!. no problems in that department.
  What ? you want proof. ok here you go:
  
  1280*1024 Max Textures, Max Antristopico 4x AA 56fps~70FPS
 
  http://img523. imageshack. us/img523/623/nfsc2006110223374570av7. jpg
  
  
  The graphics arenet going 
 to compare to any Next gen game on a PC. Because HDTV gaming still is not supported till we get 
 dx10 but come on, that was pretty sweet ? the graphics are clean and look good.
  So , if the game looks bad, its your rig's fault.
  
  When it comes down to it, with all the 
 added futures, total control of visuals, even playing Vynils, so a flame on each door can be turned 
 into a big flame acros the top of the car, from hood , to trunk. and with unlimited Vynils
  you can do what ever you want, big smal, rotate, move them around. the new Crew sytem works like 
 a charm
  having blocker take out the 2nd car and cause a ruckes can save your ass if hes rolling up on the 
 straights, a Scouts shows you the nifty short cuts and has a decent chance of WINNING. the drafter 
 is a bit more tricky. follow them closely, they will try and do a good steady job, then tell him/her 
 to stop, and BOOM instand speed boost, use a NOS at that thing and you gain an extra 20~30 KPH 
 ( 10~15 miles ) so. having alot of race options, better controlls, decent visuals and a great selections 
 of customized parts and visuals, NFS: C is not a bad game. heck i cant find anything to rant on 
 ........ o wait just one ! ... its dark again ... but all that sun in NFS: MW ... makes this a much 
 better setting.
  
  i cant beleive it, but .. EA didn't screw up for once. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: M4ki
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 2, 2006 10:44 am PT
Review:  The game's story continues right after the final jump in MostWanted. You wind up going back to 
 Palmont City, the place from which you left and went to Rockport. You get chased by Cross who is 
 now a bounty hunter, looking to get even with you after the trouble you caused him during the Rockport 
 demolition, and at the end of the chase your M3 GTR gets totaled (shame on the team for doing that) . 
 An old 'friend', Darius, clears your bounty and gives you a ride to start off with. From there, 
 it's history.
  
  The game:
  
  A very dull story and an even more unsatisfying gameplay. You really have to use crew members, 
 because it's almost impossible to win without them. The cars you unlock during your progress through 
 the story are very few, and don't justify the money you spend on them. Cops are more rubberband-like 
 than ever before (and that should be enough on them) .
  
  Bugs: I've had numerous game crashes, and serious issues when it comes to the Speedbreaker thing.
 
  
  The graphics are good, but there could have been some improvements.
  
  Autosculpt - there has been too much pub on it's part. It's good, but not what i've been expecting 
 from it. It's too restricted.
  
  All in all, it's not a game worth buying, not even at a 20$ price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: biteme12345
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 2, 2006 10:30 am PT
Review:  This game has me continually coming back for more... I set the difficulty to hard for one simple 
 reason, THIS IS NOT MOST WANTED OR UNDERGROUND! If you are buying this game because you think it'll 
 be the same as it's predecessors... be ready for a shock. Yes, the car handling is different... 
 IT'S MEANT TO BE THAT WAY! I've seen alot of member reviews that say they hate this game because 
 the handling is too difficult, or the graphics suck... OK, first off, the handling is now a little 
 more realistic... lets face it, if you run 90mph towards a wall and then turn, you ARE NOT going 
 to drift the corner nicely! Even in automatic mode, you must learn to brake, e-brake, down and 
 up shift and use your CLUTCH! As for Graphics... well for all you PC people, NFS: C defaults to 
 the bottom of the line graphics settings on start-up! Go to your options menu and CRANK THEM UP!! 
 Granted... this game might not look quite as good as some other racing games out there, but it 
 still looks pretty (expletive deleted) Good! As for gameplay... OK, yeah, the FMV and the UCap 
 stuff can get a little annoying sometimes... but atleast they are TRYING for a story-line this 
 time... and the whole change in difficulty is great... I mean, yes, the NFS games of the past were 
 fun, but lets face it... once you got your car tuned the right way, you could leave all the NPCs 
 in your dust, WAY to easily... now, it's more realistic, more balanced, and more difficult.... 
 suck it up, play the game... it's worth it all the way! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Krayman
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 2, 2006 8:57 am PT
Review:  NFS is the best driving game in its genre and we all know that... but I think its time to make a 
 new graphic engine for the NFS in the future cuse this one is getting away too old
  
  The Good: it still got the same gameplay that makes you gotta play more and finnish every single 
 mission in the specific time that you have, The costumizing level are better and lets you make 
 your perfect car and look, The sound and the movies in Carbon is amazing and got the little extra 
 that makes the adrenaline kicks more.
  
  The Bad: Well what can I say, there is many things like the graphics are getting old and it've 
 been there since NFS underground wich is away too old, the default controls are diffrent and there's 
 no needs to change it, even if it's a new game, and it is a little bit hard to customize the car 
 at some points and hard too hang on with what's happening in the turtial..
  
  Well still the game got its beauty and sucess with the most of its overall... definetly worth playing 
 and the money.. do you have the money then spend on this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: teron678
Rating: 7.4
Date: Nov 2, 2006 6:03 am PT
Review:  this game to everyone for sure was the most talk about and highly anticipated game for the year. 
 but after playing it u can surely see it was a big disappointment. first of all what the hell's 
 wrong with the graphics it's not realistic like underground and most wanted it looks like you're 
 playing an arcade game. the graphic sucks. maybe they did this so it could be compatible with weak 
 computers too. don't know. but it could have been much better. secondly the much stuff is the same 
 as most wanted the could have been more innovative.
  
  certain things i must give props for are: bring back drift (not really my thing but what the heck)
 
  
  new features like:
  
  Survive the Canyon: Leave the streets to battle rival bosses in the canyons outside the urban center. 
 All-new Canyon Duel and Drift race modes are the ultimate test of skill and nerve, where one wrong 
 turn could cost you more than the race.
  
  The City Is Yours for the Taking: Race for control of the city block-by-block by taking down rival 
 crews on their turf, then defeat their crew leaders in life-or-death races in Carbon Canyon.
  
  Customize Your Dream Car: The revolutionary new Autosculpt car customization tool gives you 
 the power to design and morph your car in every way imaginable.
  
  Represent a Class: Affiliate with the Tuner, American Muscle, or Exotic car classes and prove once 
 and for all who makes the best set of wheels. A new physics model makes each car handle and drive 
 differently.
  
  Build Your Crew: Strategically choose your crew members and use their skills on the road and in 
 your garage to help you win races and customize your cars. Designate any member of your crew as 
 a wingman and trigger his special skill to knock out your rivals.
  
  Over 50 Real-World Licensed Cars : Every car is tuneable so you can customize their look and performance 
 to suit your crew.
  
  Overall the game need improvement.
  but it still deserves a play.
  
  my advice try it you'll love it or u won't.
  It's all up 
 ti you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Apocowar
Rating: 4.5
Date: Nov 2, 2006 5:30 am PT
Review:  At first, i wanted to buy this game as soon as it was released, but the demo came out, and the 
 disapointment. This game prolly has the worst car handling of all the need for speeds, its just 
 crazy unrealistic, the graphics are just like most wanted, the only diference is that its at night.
 
  
  The drifting was the biggest disapointment i had, in the two nfs underground titles, it was great 
 i had hours of fun drifting with other people, and in Carbon its like the car was on ice, and its 
 so hard to use a bonus zone without hitting a freaking wall.
  
  This sure is one NFS title i am not gonna waste 50$ on it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BogdanStanciuc
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 2, 2006 3:27 am PT
Review:  I don't like it at all... for how long have they been working on it? Because they came out with 
 the same game as the underground and most wanted. Maybe only a plus for the cars but the gameplay 
 an the action.. not impresssed... They could have waited more and then come out with something bigger.. we 
 need a new action, no more street racing and tunning cars.. a new idea would be great... And now 
 about the graphics: it's just me or it's exactly nfs most wanted? As far as I know it works on 
 weaker machines but that doesn't make him attractive, they should have come with a new engine, 
 new environment... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stoica_szilard
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 2, 2006 12:23 am PT
Review:  After all the time spent on waiting for this game, finally it's been released.
  It's good to see new improvements such as scouts, drifters, and you personal, bodyguard . Graphics 
 got better, and i'm glad they kept the bullet time feature.
  The down part is that you need a pretty good PC to actually experience the game to it's full extent.
 
  I'm sure it will keep a lot of fans and non fans to sticked to their chairs for many many hours 
 especially if one owns a force feedback wheel.
  Overall it's a good game, and keeps your adrenaline at high levels. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sherbandel
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 1, 2006 11:32 pm PT
Review:  I begin to hate EA for producing games only for the sake of money.
  They don't have nothing new in this game, the team race mode was tryied in other games.
  It is 
 not impressive in matter of graphics. I feel like playing in a comic book. Realism lacks severly.
 
  The new tunning mode is acceptable. It lets you use your imagination, but it has a major impact 
 on realism. You don't know what visual upgrades you have on your car. EA chosed not to spend more 
 money oin licences. So probably you will miss the decals (StreetGlow, Sparco, OZ, etc.)
  I'll come with more impressions after i will have played more.
  
  See you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mach-
Rating: 6.8
Date: Nov 1, 2006 5:43 pm PT
Review:  There are several new things in this edition of Need for Speed.
  
  First, crews. You are part of a crew (like it or not) and have to battle for territory. The territory 
 is kind of a pointless feature since it doesn't add any new gameplay, it's just a new way of organizing 
 the game.
  
  Second, wingmen. These are guys from your crew. They join the race and do things like smash other 
 people's car, show you the shortcuts, or let you draft behind them. Seems more like cheating to 
 me.
  
  Third, drift mode is back. In NFSU it was actually kind of fun. Now it's utterly rediculous. I 
 haven't tried it with my wheel yet, but with a keyboard, there's are basically three positions 
 for your car: Straight, perpendicular (facing left) and perpendicular (facing right) . Forget balancing 
 your drift or controlling oversteer. The car won't oversteer, it maxes out at a certain angle with 
 the road. This is probably the most frustrating aspect of the game.
  
  Other than these three additions, nothing new. Graphics are more night mode (ugh) and maybe a little 
 better. The cutscenes definitely look crisper instead of a watercolor painting that fell into a 
 bathtub like the last ones.
  
  Over all, most of the races are pretty easy. Nice to see muscles cars. The tuning options are crap. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hanlector
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 1, 2006 3:50 pm PT
Review:  Skipping the demo and I jumped right into the game =) the game it self is pretty solid and the 
 graphics are a little less then expected. My PC sure has plenty under the hood but yet I was not 
 able to run it at max configurations. The sounds are way better then last year NFS: MW but!!! Yet 
 it does not look better in graphical department. If you loved the previous NFS games Im sure you 
 will Love Carbon. Also for the price of 29.99$ is a deal you can't beat for such a great game that 
 could of been a little better but im happy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: casco1982
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 3, 2006 11:30 am PT
Review:  Graphics are by far the best in this series and if you like previous NFS like i said before you 
 will love this. Drifting is easer now so some of you may be disappointed, but being able to custom 
 your car is now a lot more detailed. Soundtrack is ok in my eye but if you want to play your own 
 mp3's there are ways to do so. Also the story line is just as good if not better then before. More 
 cars to blow out your mind.
  
  The landscapes are lovely. Driving threw Vegas, not really Vegas, is flashy.
  
  In the end 
 its a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cristi_X
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 31, 2006 10:51 pm PT
Review:  In the demo the control sucx!!! Let's hope the full will be better. tunning is not very impressive. 
 you can't autosculpt every part of your car... they had better let the tunning from nfs most wanted... 
 in drift race, the car is uncontrolable, you don't need the e-break any more. when you take a left 
 you do a 180 angle. Now, nfs bases on speed and not on skils. in ug and ug 2, you take a curve whith 
 the e-break and take it your way, not how they want. In the circuit they messet up the speed breaker, 
 when you get out of the speed breaker your car coes insaine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nemesisu_zork
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 31, 2006 10:39 pm PT
Review:  Yes ! Fellow tuners and speed maniacs! This is it! Throw out your competitors in the abyss and 
 step on it. The demo was good. I suppose the game will be better. It will be a good choice of game 
 play during the holidays. Maybe we hope to much from this game, but, always the people from EA 
 gave us a almost perfect game play with a spicy scenario. Also, working with actors gave the game 
 a real life and adventure feeling. It is good to have a girl that will encourage you in your quest 
 for total territorial domination. The duel mode is outrageous. In demo I get rid of my competitor 
 by trowing him into the abyss. We cannot try the moves of drifting in the real life, but we can 
 experience the feeling of drifting so close to clash in this marvelous game. Thanks EA ! Once again, 
 we have a amazing title to play with! Vvrrooouuummmm ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ppld14
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 31, 2006 3:24 pm PT
Review:  The demo is very small for a huge game but it&acute; s ok!. I think that the game is a mix of the 
 three past games of nfs, a mix of underground, underground 2 and most wanted. This new feature 
 of auto-sculpt is very nice you can modify your car parts. Now you can see the face of your opponent 
 in the car, thing that in the others nfs don't have it. Other thing that is very good is the three 
 classes of cars (muscle, exotic and tuners) each one have his own properties.
  
  This nfs its gonna be the best in series 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mbreber
Rating: 7.8
Date: Oct 31, 2006 9:13 am PT
Review:  Well, demo is looking fine.
  Nice graphic, not to demanding for hardware and there will be a number of options for tuning up 
 as in past games.
  Only night time game play is one thing I hate.
  The score would be much higher if there is option for time of day and weather.
  The controls 
 are easy to use and don t take long to learn.
  The story wont be something super new, so as I put all that together, my score would be: Not bad, 
 some things could be better. I think EA could make much better stuff in this serial, but they just 
 can not forget a number of things that they used over and over again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rulzmaker
Rating: 5.6
Date: Oct 31, 2006 7:02 am PT
Review:  Need for Speed: Carbon, is the most overrated game i've ever seen. Last year, at the Need for Speed 
 Most Wanted release, fewer wanted this game. But this year starting the announce of Carbon, people 
 started communities and waited for Carbon to be release with their souls in their neck. Ok, moment 
 of truth. I've played the game, it's nothing original, just the Canion races which were taken from 
 The fast and the Furious Tokyo Drift movie. Nothing original here. The crew is an not so much apreciated 
 function for many users, so many will consider it useless. Like in Fifa, many many of those things 
 were added but not many of them realy used by users.
  Since i've played it, now i regret that i've waited for this game so much. And one more thing: 
 Need for Speed Porsche is the best (the single one) simulation game in all the Need for Speed franchise. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tusa04
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 1, 2006 7:02 am PT
Review:  The game is actually best in its nfa series coz i has new suberb gameplay but kinda wierd graphics 
 features and settings, as graphics is kinda upgraded graphics engine of underground and frops frame 
 rates like hell with its new feature such as motion blur and shader details, but even so it looks 
 good if decreased settings. the cop excitement is not present, but has a exciting cop chases as 
 u can destory stuff and things alot lot more, but still cops are present with the same funny but 
 agressive catchin strategy where a dozen cops surround u...
  
  Moreove, its new drift races and canyon dueling is so amazing as canyon races are challengin as 
 drift are much much easier to perform, also in the drift races are so easy as when u drift on turns 
 it automatically drifts the car in the angle and way u want, also they nade it much much easeir 
 and fun by providing the clutch trick were in if u use it it smoothins the drifts and make them 
 drift longer. Furthermore, the crew system is also amazin as u can activate ur crews abilitites 
 to crash and play around with ur rivals...
  
  Ea was also generous by providing an excellent car list cand categories as there are many cars 
 as HELL and good and new ones too, also the whole vinyl thingi changed alot as u can put watever 
 and wherever u want to put, alot and alot of vinyls and designs. The autosclupt is just unimaginablely 
 cooooooool, apply regular bidy parts and mix em up, twist em, turn em, elongate them, watever and 
 however u want them...
  
  So i think EA has finally but not quite made a cool and successive NFS series as i think its the 
 best, but i miss MW features that if it would be in carbon would make it tremendously Cooooool!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mdsteen
Rating: 6.3
Date: Oct 31, 2006 3:00 am PT
Review:  I have been playing the Need for Speed series since NFS: Hot Pursuit and I honestly believe that 
 this is one of, if not the best of the Need for Speed series of games from EA Games. The demo of 
 the game seems a bit lacking. One can only choose from among three cars, one from each of the categories 
 available (Tuner, Exotic and Muscle) and can only race on three tracks (drift, race and canyon) 
 but from what I saw in the demo and the various videos and screen shots that EA has released, the 
 game is a strong contender for racing game of the year, IMHO. First the cars and the new way to 
 customize known as autosculpt. This feature allows one to completely customize ones ride in various 
 combinations allowing for not only thousands of combinations and customizations, but for hours 
 spent on getting ones car to look just right . This feature alone is a great departure from the 
 previous NFS series games, where body parts were all pre-fabbed and some didn't even look like 
 they could belong to some of the cars that they could be applied to.
  
  Speaking of looks, the graphics of the game rate I would say on par with any of the best FPS games 
 out there currently. On my system I was able to run up the graphics to nearly max and I must say, 
 I was impressed with what I say. Granted I did not get quite XBOX 360 level graphics, but I was 
 impressed with how scalable the games graphics engine was. The in game physics seemed at times 
 to be a bit off almost arcade like at times, but this is nearly to be expected with a NFS series 
 game. Which is why that aspect did not bother me in my gameplay. Of the three test cars in the 
 demo, the obvious real life heaviest car, the muscle class Camaro SS was able to be whipped around 
 the drift track and course like it weighed in game the same as the more nimble Exotic class Murcialgo 
 and almost as agile as the Tuner class EVO.
  
  In all I believe, IMHO, that NFS Carbon will be the top PC racing sim game of 2006. I can't wait 
 to see what EA has up there sleeves for next time.
  
  ----------MIKE ---------- 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
