-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Need for Speed Undercover
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/driving/needforspeedundercover/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Plenty of cop chases.
 Instantly join races with press of a button.
 Doesn't take long before you're driving a cool car.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Lots of quirks and nagging gameplay issues.
 Emulates Most Wanted, but doesn't necessarily improve upon it.
 Story isn't much to get excited about.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 21, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 6.1, 9 Review (s)
User Score: 6.5, 2,634 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Electronic Arts
Developer: EA Vancouver
Genre: GT / Street Racing
Date:     Nov 17, 2008 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Need for Speed returns to its roots with hokey cutscenes, wild cop chases, and solid racing action. 
 

  For the most part, the reaction to the last few Need for Speed games was the same: "Why aren't 
 they more like Need for Speed Most Wanted?" "Where are the cheesy cutscenes and the over-the-top 
 cop chases?" It seems as if EA heard those cries, because for better or for worse, Need for Speed 
 Undercover feels like Most Wanted.  

  In Undercover you play the role of... wait for it... an undercover officer. Along with agent Chase 
 Linh, played by the attractive Maggie Q, your job is to take down a group of street racers that 
 have somehow become involved in an international smuggling ring. The story is told via campy cutscenes 
 that fail to capture the charm of Most Wanted thanks to uninteresting characters and a predictable 
 plot. Having a story provides incentive to make it through race after race, but the whole "this 
 is cheesy so it's cool" thing feels kind of forced this time around.  

           It won't be easy, we'll have to use our powers of acting to take down the street racers. 

  Like many other Need for Speed games, all of your racing will take place on the streets of a fictitious 
 open-world city -- here it's the Tri-City Bay area. You'll start with a lousy vehicle, but it won't 
 be long before you're able to snag a pink slip to a nicer ride. As you progress you'll earn cash, 
 which can be used to unlock (50+) new vehicles from manufacturers such as Nissan, Dodge, Cadillac, 
 Ford, Porsche, Lamborghini, BMW, Aston Martin, Mitsubishi, and more. If you're into tuning individual 
 aspects of your ride or purchasing individual parts you can do that, but if you're not into tinkering 
 you can purchase an upgrade package and be on your way.  

  Not only will you earn money for winning an event, you'll earn driving points for dominating it -- basically 
 beating it really, really bad. You can power up a number of your driving attributes, but they don't 
 have a noticeable effect on how your car handles. As long as you drive fast you'll probably dominate, 
 but there are occasional races where you'll totally obliterate the time needed to dominate an event, 
 but you'll still lose to the CPU. The game also encourages you to drive with style and drift, draft, 
 and drive really close to other cars, but other than increasing your nitrous there's little to 
 gain from doing so. That said, the new J-Turn mechanic, which lets you bust quick 180s, is invaluable 
 when chasing down rivals or evading the cops. You'll use it because it's useful, though, not because 
 it gets you heroic driving points.  

  The cops are back in full effect in Undercover, and for the most part, their return is welcome. 
 The challenges in which you must ram and take out a certain number of police cars are great fun, 
 as are the challenges where you must cause a certain monetary sum of damage. Of course, you don't 
 always have to ram cars to take them down; you can also run into log trucks, electrical towers, 
 billboards, and more to leave a little surprise for your pursuers. It's too bad that some odd quirks 
 hamper the cop chases. The environmental hazards that you can unleash certainly look cool and are 
 effective, but quite often you won't see any police cars get hit by the objects, yet when the cutscene 
 ends the cars are trashed. Sometimes you won't have to do anything at all to evade police -- the 
 game says "go" and you stay still and nobody finds you. Cops are capable of laying down spikes, 
 but you can go the entire game without them ever doing so. The biggest problem, however, is that 
 the cops don't do much other than bang on the side of your car and yell at you, so if you last 
 long enough they sort of fade away on their own. This makes the chases less challenging than they 
 could have been and also makes them feel artificial, like you're just fulfilling some sort of time 
 requirement until the game decides you've done well enough to escape.  

  Undercover isn't just about messing with the Man. There are events where you need to maintain a 
 lead for a specific amount of time or get a certain distance ahead of your opponent. Sometimes 
 you'll have to shake the cops while trying to keep a stolen ride in pristine condition, and there 
 are checkpoint races and circuit races as well. There's not a whole lot that's original here and 
 the races are generally extremely easy -- you might not see another car for an entire race once you've 
 cleared the starting line. They're difficult on occasion, but this is usually because of the occasionally 
 choppy frame rate, which makes the otherwise great-handling vehicles a chore to drive when it rears 
 its head. What's odd is that there's really no obvious reason for the game's sometimes poor frame 
 rate; the city doesn't look much different than those in Carbon and Most Wanted.  

           You might not want to crash into a cop car in real life, but here, it's all good.     

  That said, the game does do a few things very well. The online cops and robbers mode, where the 
 robber tries to pick up money and take it to a drop-off point while another person plays the cop 
 and tries to ram them, is quite a bit of fun. But mostly what the game gets right is its pacing. 
 The races are short -- sometimes as short as 20 seconds, and almost never longer than five minutes. 
 Another cool thing the game does is it lets you instantly jump to the closest race by pressing 
 down on the D pad. If you want to find a specific event you can press up and you're taken to a 
 GPS map, where you can instantly go to the race of your choice. It'll save you a lot of needless 
 backtracking, and combined with the short races, makes sure that Undercover never gets boring. 

  If you're one of the many people who loved Need for Speed Most Wanted, flaws and all, you'll find 
 a lot to like in Undercover. It's not very original, but there's no denying that it's just good 
 fun to run from the cops and wreak havoc on a city in the process.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (172 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Ahson_Khan
Rating: 1
Date: Apr 3, 2009 3:32 am PT
Review:  The answer is YES! other then that utter bore of a ProStreet. I think its high time EA designers 
 got off their chubby bottoms and became inspired by proper game designers such as Codemasters who 
 have been eliminated from the world due to the fact that they wanted ot make good games that sold 
 not good selling games. For starters. The cop AI is irritating to say the least. It is sometimes 
 interestesting. But you will be surprised to know that while i am trying to total another street 
 racer of the road while he is trying the same i am the only one the cops seem to be interestest 
 in bringing down! Furthermore, the graphics mediocre flashy eye candy that cannot even be destroyed. 
 It is just most wanted with worse gameplay and thicker shinier paint. If there are any racing fans 
 out there who would want the old galor of Hot Persuit to come back. I tell them to stay away as 
 only irritation awaits. I am not a hater of this franchise. I beleive though that it died after 
 Underground 2 wich to this day and age looks good and offers a REAL fun driving and customising 
 experience wereas most wanted was the best in cop chase and fun run and tagging. The game is easy... 
 but the ai is stupid and pointless. Hell i got so irritated while chasing one of the street racers 
 that i uninstalled the game and burned the DVD since all i saw was a bunch of cops coming in to 
 attack me and leave that guy to run as if he was their sisters husband. Pathetic is the word here. 
 The machanics arent even arcadey... they are plain and simple oilspill... Play GRID and DIRT if 
 you want a proper, chalangeing and fun racing flava... 
  PEACE! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fierotarun
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 4, 2009 11:25 pm PT
Review:  I will list down the cons (which is what I gathered)
  
  1. crappy cut-scenes and voice acting
  2. stupid menu system - one can't use the mouse (I don't 
 know the fascination with the backspace key )
  3. strange adaptive AI system.. you may be 10 20 sec ahead.. but bang into 1 car, pillar and the 
 2nd guy whizzes past u .. wtf ?
  4. where did they pick up the songs? I didn't like even one of the songs. They just don't connect 
 with the game. I mean, who wants Spanish music while racing a car?
  5. even at 6x AA, the shadows are ugly.. even on my ATI HD 4850. I turned them off while playing.
 
  6. there is no immersion.. MW was so cool. you were always in the game.. here you are eating noodles 
 with one hand and driving with the other !!
  7. I buy a new car and go to complete an older race.. still the other comp. cars there are able 
 to match up ... 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: vectorvtec73
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 25, 2009 6:22 pm PT
Review:  Okay so this game has it's highlights and flaws, but in the end I would say it is worth playing 
 through story mode at least once.
  
  The main, and at times, only upside is the story. It is non-stop, it will keep you at your computer 
 wanting to roast the force motors in your G25 wheel as the story progresses. The unfortunate problem 
 with the story, as EA does best, there are certain parts that didn't really play out. There are 
 some times, or themes in the story, that will make you wonder how certain things could make sense. 
 Still, it will make you not want to stop.
  
  The biggest issue, as usual with EA, is that they were going for a realistic racing experience. 
 They need to stop going for realism as they have shown for ten years now that they can't do it. 
 The best realistic sim from EA was Sports Car GT back in 1999, and that still stands as one of 
 the top 3 best games I've ever played. Since then, it's all been downhill. -- EDIT: I forgot F1 
 99-02, that was a solid game.
  
  This game, along with ProStreet, has a physics engine that is so unrealistic that if anybody at 
 EA actually thinks these exoticars drive like this in real life, I'd venture to bet they've never 
 driven a car, period. The physics engine will take some getting used to because it is so far off. 
 These cars will, at times, turn on a dime, and at other times, won't turn at all.
  
  EA's best in the series, Most Wanted and Carbon, weren't going for solid realistic handling, and 
 that's why it worked. The graphics here aren't photorealistic (look at the press releases for Shift, 
 they have finally changed their advertisement line from "They are photorealistic" to something 
 to the effect of the graphics being NEAR photorealistic, which grammatically is indicating a step 
 back when it is actually a step forward) .
  
  Long story short -- What EA needs to get through their dense heads is that if true simracers want 
 to race a sim, they will go play something like GTR2, Richard Burns Rally, F1 99-02, NR2003, etc 
 etc. Most people who are diehards either won't play this series at all, or as I do, they will play 
 it as a break from extremely realistic sims or for kicks.
  
  Verdict: Not bad, worth playing but might not have that long term hook many racers may look for. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HarrisDo
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 22, 2009 10:08 am PT
Review:  The 12th game in the Need for Speed series is unfortunately not as good as the others. It seems 
 big but it keeps a bad secret. Behind the huge map including 3 states, the encounter with the police 
 cars, and the car's horsepower which is bigger than one hundred stables, it is desparatingly trying 
 to gain your love. It is continously offering you gifts."Take some points"
  "Try those new tunning packs", "Why don't you take this car". All would be OK if they had been 
 offered after the introduction.
  
  At first this approach functions well. You think that it is all right if you lose the first 20 
 races. When every success offers you so much you start thinking like this and you can't find anything 
 bad in the game. But as you go on you see that the free roam map is in relity limited and not a 
 little! And the biggest problem in undercover is that with all the stuff you "gain" the success 
 loses its value. And in a while more problems appear.
  
  The funny thing is that despite the generousity of the game, the new Heroic Driving Engine of Need 
 for Speed is completely the opposite, especially with the framerates. If you speed up a lot the 
 visuals get so bad that you may not be able to see the road in front of you. And it's a pity because 
 the game is good designed.
  
  Then we have the Undercover's bad approach in the player's freedom. The map of the 3 states is huge 
 and amazing. If you complete all the missions you will be able to explore every place. But in comparison 
 with other games (burnout , midnight club) it is much more limited. And this happens because you 
 can't drive free in a race. Undercover limits you to the places that it consider suitable to play 
 and complete the mission.
  
  Fortunately in the getaway missions with the police you are completely free. Nevertheless these 
 events are sometimes limited by stone blocks, etc.
  
  But Undercover is not a WEAK game. There has been a big improvement from the last game (Prostreet) . 
 It comes back to the troubles with the "cops" and it is an original NFS game. The game offers a 
 very good experience especially for those who love chalenges. The variety of the cars is vast. It 
 includes "simple" cars like lotus elise to exotic and anbelievable cars like the forbiden Buggati 
 Veyron. The events are revolutionary and sometimes have a combination of objectives. So you don't 
 easily get bored.
  
  As for the multiplayer mode it includes a big variety of events. You can play getaway missions 
 except from single races. There is really a lot of fun!
  
  Now if the game is capable for your game list; the decision is yours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gumeh
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 20, 2009 9:37 pm PT
Review:  
  
  the game was successfully with NFS Most wanted, but NFS fans was disappointed with the pro street 
 who not making wild race on the street,, with the undercover, i think can up the NFS status,.
  
  
  
  amazingly graphics! with the sun glow and bright clouds.. wow.. but very.. very .. hard 
 to play this game with the minimum requirement, u will have a black shading, bilinear texture and 
 down frame rate.. u must apply the recommendations specifications to ran this game perfectly. 
 
  
  
  
  u can't find any options who can u find it at the previous series... this game play make u ran on 
 the street, and it will there glow text who tell u the next race u can join.. very... very.... simple 
 without no variations and great developments. but u can enjoy to ran with the a lot of super car 
 in this game. i like to ride lotus elise, upgrade, and destroy polices 
::::::

::::::
UserName: diabloxxxx
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 18, 2009 6:02 am PT
Review:  And here he came again and the most famous game series Need for Speed. In first Need for Speed undercover 
 is a NFS Most Wanted imbunatatit. Ceea what attracts you most to be undercover wide variety of masini. Acestea 
 are divided into Autos: American, Japanese and Europene. Frustration is my first trip on the Bounty 
 exactly cops do not even watch desperate not you follow what the race is boring even to get imposibila. So 
 story. That u 're not even a race of maniac are you actually an undercover cop that will help police 
 to catch some undercover infractori. In will find a variety of the racing more interesting as altele. Gameplays 
 is very good, as well as sound , the story is quite varied and innovative. The damage is good. Job 
 which will go top of NFS undercover serii. With EA undercover and got washed in the shame that was 
 Pro Street. 
  Sorry for my crappy english.
  Remember: That is my opinion bound review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: akshaymohan24
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 17, 2009 4:09 pm PT
Review:  I have played all the games of the series and liked this the best. The graphics are pretty good 
 with ultra V-sync. The game looks pretty nice while playing, the story mode is very cool with many 
 races. There are some different type of races in the game other than in the other series that is, 
 Highway battle. It is quite significant that it is running through the highway. Quite nice but 
 the traffic other than the two rides racing is the trouble. The game is quite easy in some levels, 
 but gets tougher as you go up. There is a high graphics in the game which I liked the most, there 
 are smokes while burn out, while smoking, the transparent visibility through the smoke is superb!! 
 The game goes well while in high graphics. The races are pretty good with same riders from all 
 other races and getting themselves upgraded while we do. The custom rides rock, there are many 
 rides in the game by separating them by countries. We can select the car we want easily. AND THE 
 GAME ROCKS!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: expulsamos13
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 16, 2009 3:37 pm PT
Review:  What should I say, the NFS Undercover should have brought back the hype of the NFS series, after 
 the disaster ProStreet had made. People wanted back the 'epicness' of MW and how it had redefined 
 the new gaming experience. Cop chases was something new, but putting the same game mechanics into 
 another title just to show the fans "hey, we are making another great game with cop chases, you 
 guys surely will love it, right?" was just another dumb thing EA had done. 
  
  I had tried this game in my Ps2 and god, the graphics looks as if I'm running the game in a Ps1! 
 The lighting effects is horrible, and screen looked like it has its setting to a retarded 256 colors! 
 Even the predecessor MW had better graphics, and IMO that was a big difference as I'm a graphic 
 enthusiast and I love stunning and eye-candy visuals of the game I play. EA should have made some 
 improvements on something like this, and yet they have failed. Yes, I know that if I try running 
 it on a PC with a considerably good GPU then the game will have a better look, at least better 
 than Ps2 but here's the thing, had EA forgot the Ps2 fans?? And I bet the number of Ps2 owners 
 is far greater than those who own a rig that could run any high-demanding games smoothly. I could 
 be wrong, and this title is in Ps3 and 360 too, which brings to the fact that Ps3 and 360 has better 
 graphics compared to Ps2 but here's my point; if EA wanted to launch the game on Ps2 also, with 
 crappy graphics, then don't do it! It brings disgrace to EA's name itself, as there is still a 
 lot of Ps2 users out there, who will search and buy any Ps2 game they thought would be great as 
 new games nowadays are exclusive just for the new generation consoles. They might not be a graphic-enthusiastic 
 as I am, but a Ps2 game with Ps1 graphics is just so ridiculous and very unacceptable. And I'm 
 saying this on behalf of a Ps2 fan. 
  
  About the gameplay, here comes the ultimate reason why I disliked this game so much. It nothing 
 more than a 'repeat' of MW races, seriously! Consider this, someone had its own hands on MW and 
 he/she started playing the game. Yes, that person surely would love that game as for him/her, the 
 game had its hype and that person would have the eagerness to complete the game. Cop chases was 
 great, and had the phenomenal "adrenaline-rush" that made the whole experience of playing the game 
 'epicness'. After he/she beat the game, "yeah, why shouldn't I play it again, its very fun though." 
 Did it happened to Undercover as well? No. The races in this game are no much different from MW, 
 except the tracks are not the same. Gameplay? Yes. You would find yourself felt boring in no time 
 because you'll think "WTH am I playing this for?" There's nothing new Undercover will show to you 
 that could leave you the feeling of amazement that MW had successfully done. The story is very 
 confusing at the beginning, and there's nothing new in the 'world'. The daytime in this game is 
 just like MW, I guess it's 3 in the afternoon, which brought up the fact that you'll feel like 
 the atmosphere is just the same as MW. EA should at least make the daytime mechanics in this game 
 a "real" one, means when you started the race in the afternoon, although the race lasts for 5 minutes, 
 but it's much cooler (and damn well great) if you finished the race during the dusk, and continue 
 roaming the world until midnight and so on.
  All in all, bah, nothing to be hyped. 
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: d_e_e_p
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 15, 2009 11:17 am PT
Review:  Need For Speed - UNDERCOVER
  
  First of all i will thank EA games for providing us new gameplay every year from there first game 
 in the nfs series to the last undercover till now. they have always provided us new race styles 
 . like in nfs underground they give us 
  an option of creating and customizing our own car and in nfs mw they provided us with great cop 
 chases and in carbon they provided canyon race 
  which was good and then in pro street they want the users to experience a 
  solid racing game 
 for me pro street is a good game except due to the graphical corruption and now in undercover they 
 wanted to experience a
  makeover of most wanted i liked that game but people wanted something new 
  when ea launched 
 pro street people downt like it because they thought it is not from a nfs series for me pro stereet 
 rocks . nfs undercover is a good 
  game but due to the overacted video people couldn connect to the game 
  nfs undercover provide 
 us hot cop chase and great 
  graphics in nfs undercover rocks u would love it......
  
  
  NFS UNDERCOVER REVIEW
  
  
 STORY - 6.5
  
  GAME-PLAY - 9.0
  
  GRAPHICS - 8.5
  
  SOUND - 8.5
  
  VIDEOS - 6.5
  
  PURSUIT - 9.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hardheartman
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 14, 2009 7:56 am PT
Review:  Here we are one year after the disappointing (my opinion) NFS Prostreet. Back to the used recipe 
 of Most Wanted. this nfs is much better than nfs pro street. Everything in this game reminds you 
 of Most Wanted. The races are very fun and so are the car effects. Graphics are also great if you 
 have a powerful rig. The best part is that it gives the player whatever he wants. Police pursuits, 
 takedowns, NOS, cut-scenes.
  A lot of game modes such as Sprint, Checkpoint, Circuit , Escape, Cop takeout, Cost to state , 
 Highway Battles (Reminds Drag Races without manual transmission) and more ... Drift and draft have 
 been taken out. The customization is extremely lacking compare the underground and most wanted 
 series.
  The story in the game is good for this kind of game , not deep and it has some plot twists . The 
 game is not short , it has a lot of races and a large map. The amount of cars is good. They are 
 separated in three main categories based geographically : American , European and Japanese. there 
 are any kind of cars that you like such as BMW, nissan, mercedes benz,. audi and.... you need to win 
 races to pass the levels and there are 18 levels that you need to pass.
  The cops are back, once again... Police chases are usually easy, but helicopters stick to you like 
 glue. The difficulty is just right for beginners and easy for fans. The starting races are extremely 
 easy and you can achieve good times. A very good addition in the game is the level up ability. 
 You can level up your driver skills (nitrous, engine transmission etc. also money earning and part 
 discounts) and after some certain Xp (its called wheelman points) you increase your wheelman level 
 . The controls are good.. it's not a simulation game so don't expect serious car behavior. graphics 
 and sounds are ok (not amazing) . overall I really recommend this game to you if you like action 
 packed fast pace racing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ciungacianga
Rating: 4
Date: Feb 7, 2009 12:09 pm PT
Review:  First thoughts that came to my mind after playing first few minutes of this game are that the cars 
 in the game are from Pro Street and the surroundings from Most Wanted. This means cars look very 
 sweet but the graphics of environment don't, they look old and outdated.
  HANDLING. Well, handling of the cars disappointed me A LOT!!! It's OK when an arcade styled game 
 has unrealistic handling but not THAT unrealistic! What I mean is taking corners using a HANDBRAKE 
 while doing  300 km/h or slowing down from 350 km/h to 100 km/h in just a second or so after applying 
 brakes is nonsense. Arcadish handling in MW was much more appropriate.
  POLICE. You drive, destroy uncountably many police vehicles, and they still appear as roadblocks 
 seconds after you wasted all the following units. No matter what route you take, police roadblocks 
 appear everywhere. And in highest wanted levels game spawns so many new police units over and over 
 and over and over and over again that it gets really hard to get away and the pursuit becomes simply 
 boring and unfun. Or how about when you get quite away from chasing units in your ubertuned Bugati 
 Veyron doing 350+ km/h, slightly brush traffic car, lose some 10-20 km/h and then suddenly you 
 find a police car shown on your radar some few hundred meters away from you that catches up with 
 you and blows past by you in just 2-3 seconds, and it's a police SUV!!! What's the point in driving 
 a Veyron at 400 km/h when police SUV can do 500!!!!????
  This game is just too much ARCADE (ish) . It's so too much arcade (ish) that sometimes after just 
 15minutes of playing you just want to turn it off and never see it again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slim_shady2142
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 4, 2009 6:49 am PT
Review:  the game is so good but not as good as nfs most wanted. this nfs is much more better than need for 
 speed carbon and nedd for speed pro street. movies of the game i mean the caractors in the movies 
 are real and much more better than need for speed pro street and tyhe story of the game is great. the 
 story is that you are a an agent and you buy a car and jump in to the street racers and race with 
 the and at last then you win all the races you cauch all of them. the cars are awesome. there are 
 any kind of cars that yoyu like such as BMW, nissan, mercedes benz,. audi and... .cars are going vary 
 fast and the handling is useful too. but there are some disadvantages. you need to win races to pass 
 the levels and there are 18 levels that you need to pass. when you're playing the game if ypu paly 
 it more than 3 hours you will get borde because there is no new thing in the races. and the worst 
 thing about the game is that when you're fighting with police cars the music changes in to a calm 
 music but it shuld be a rock music. it was all about nfs undercover that i can say. I hope that if 
 EA is going to make another NFS, it is going to be a good one like nfs most wanted. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sakrilege
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 1, 2009 6:06 am PT
Review:  Best of the get-a-car and tune-it-up type of need for speed games (except underground) . The graphics 
 are four years dated, they look just like the first games graphics except with modern enhancements 
 like antistrophic filtering. 
  
  The sound is REALLY bland. Cars sound very much the same. 600+ HP cars don't sound like a Honda 
 Civic with a fart cannon on it. Turbos sound horrid. The soundtrack is around 20 songs longs and 
 consists of a lot of crap with a couple hits in it.
  
  The gameplay is really solid. Lots of different kinds of races. Tuning and upgrading your car comes 
 down to moving a few sliders in the right direction and selecting a "street" "race" or "pro" upgrade 
 package ( here hoping they actually do some research into how cars work the next time around) . 
 
  
  The thing that REALLY damages this game is it is plagued with bugs. It is an EA game so expect 
 a LOT of crashes even with a high-end system, and no support. Would be worth $50 easy if it didn't 
 crash every 15-60 minutes. 
  
  GFX: 7
  Sound: 5
  Gameplay: 8
  Overall: 6 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saadmalik95
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 31, 2009 11:07 am PT
Review:  Everything in this game reminds you of Most Wanted. The races are very fun and so are the car effects. 
 Graphics are also great if you have a powerful rig. The best part is that it gives the player whatever 
 he wants. Police pursuits, takedowns, NOS, cut-scenes. But then there is the problem that the game 
 is very short compared to other Need For Speed games. Even at the highest difficulty the game seems 
 very easy. Still the game is very addictive. I really recommend this game to you if you like action 
 packed fast pace racing. 
  
  Minimum System Requirements:
  
  Windows XP and VISTA with latest service pack installed
  Intel Pentium 4 (or equivalent) CPU 
 running at 2.8GHz or higher (3.0GHz if running Windows Vista)
  1GB RAM
  Geforce 6500, Radeon 9500 or better DirectX compliant video card with Pixel shader 2.0 or above 
 (AGP and PCIe only) using a supported chipset
  DirectX compatible sound card
  8X or faster DVD Drive
  5.5 GB of HD space required to install game
  To play online a network 
 card is required for broadband connectivity
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: vladex00
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 30, 2009 2:47 am PT
Review:  Go Deep Undercover - Race into an action-packed story of pursuit and betrayal. Take on jobs and 
 compete in races to prove yourself as you infiltrate and take down an international crime syndicate 
 
  Heroic Driving Engine - An all-new game engine featuring cutting-edge physics and improved AI designed 
 to push players and the cars to limits with adrenaline filled action driving maneuvers 
  Highway Battle - Fight off the cops and others as you take down your prey in high-speed, high stake 
 multi-car chases. New and vastly improved AI mechanics mean more aggressive and intelligent cops 
 focused on taking you out fast and by any means necessary 
  Own the Open World - Tear across the massive highway system and discover the open world of the 
 Gulf Coast Tri-Cities area, with three unique cities connected by an extensive highway system. 
 
  Online - In addition to the classic sprint and circuit race modes, Need for Speed Undercover features 
 an all new exclusive multiplayer mode, Cops N' Robbers. This visceral team-based mode supports 
 up to 8 players and pits two teams of 4 players against each other. Robbers must pick up the money 
 and take it to the drop-off point while the cops attempt to prevent the drop-off. Each game consists 
 of two rounds giving the players the chance to play as the Cops and as the Robbers 
  Photo Real Cars and Performance  Over 55 licensed cars are available featuring performance tuning 
 that enables the player to dynamically adjust the vehicles to create the vehicles that can accommodate 
 all action driving scenarios. Some of the cars include the Mercedes CL55, Audi R8, Porsche 911 
 GT2 and the Mitsubishi EVO X
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sharpdolphins
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 29, 2009 8:49 am PT
Review:  well what can i say this game is good but not much as most wanted as we can play before. the cops 
 are not hard to catch us and the chopper is not give us the bomb to destroy our car in the air.. 
 like we can see in hot pursuit 2. but i like the some stages of this game like we see on kill the 
 boss stages we hit the cars and kill them but our car is not damage thats not good. i can feel 
 in that stage just i play the game in my childhood the game of sega (chase H. Q) .
  this idea is cool. the cars are well.. the graphics are good but going to blury when i set the 
 option to high. but ea not try to work hard on that game they not give us any glory in this game. 
 drag races are good but where are the drift races?? i give this game 8.0 cuz i am the fan of ea. 
 but i request to ea please work hard on story and game play... cuz i am lil bit bore to play this 
 the the stickers, vinyls, bodies, after market are good of the cars.. the graphics are improve much 
 then before but the blur is coming i dun see clearly when i ride the car clearly in drag races.. 
 but this game we can say much better then prostreet.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wings_008
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 24, 2009 1:36 pm PT
Review:  now where do i start, lets start by the story ,the story isnt bad at all its good enough, after 
 all its not max payne, the gameplay on the other hand is disastrous 
  1- The steering is crap its feels like someone had accidentally wiped the road with butter and 
 oil, its totally unresponsive and if EA was trying to make feel real well they didnt, every times 
 you lose control just kill the gas and the car miraculously returns to the middle of the road... what 
 the...?
  2- Soundtracks are even worse than PROstreet's, they are weird mix of alternative rock and a crappy 
 pop or something whatever it is it suck and i totally hate them
  3- Nasty bugs and massive glitches prevents you from having fun (if at all!) and the preposterous 
 system requirement aren't exactly the game strongest points 
  4-Its simply not fun and exiting enough for you to keep playing it , even if it was meant to
 
  THE GOOD 
  looks great, really great, and the cars even better
  easy to learn and to master
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alex41790
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 23, 2009 5:47 pm PT
Review:  Need for Speed Undercover is everything you would expect it to be, fast cars, hot women, lots of 
 cops, and a whole lot of road to drive on. A back story drives you to compete in the circuits, 
 sprints, checkpoints, and highway battles as you fight your way to the top.
  
  The game play keeps the gamer immersed in the game, keeping them there for hours at a time. The 
 drive to upgrade your car parts and get a faster, better car also distracts any NFS gamer for hours 
 at a time without notice to the outside world around them. Not to mention the 'boss" battles so-to-speak 
 are very engaging and something to look forward to.
  
  However the reason it doesn't seem to compare to some of the NFS games that have been released 
 before it just seems to do with the game play. I was always a fan of NFS Most Wanted, enjoying 
 the achievements you had to do with getting a certain amount of heat, which certainly took a gamer 
 some time to achieve, some not being able to deal with the heat. And also the variety of types 
 of races seemed much more engaging such as the drifting race.
  
  But if your looking for a new NFS game because you've played through all the others before, this 
 definitely will satisfy your needs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Daword
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 22, 2009 11:40 am PT
Review:  im played more than 200pc games. so i know what games are realy good and what game are boring or 
 just realy bad
  i allways buy those new pc games and try them 
  im almost played every new pc game.. so if i give 9-10 points its have to be a REALY good game 
 and u shoul buy it or even try it =)
  someone give games 9-10 points just to easyly, i give those points only for masterpieces..
  and 
 i dont write big review i give now only points and thats because my main language is not enghlis 
 so its brety hard to write good reviews.. Sory : (
  so my enghlis is not so good that i can tell every nice or bad things in games.. so i use only 
 points =)
  i hope everyone understand that i just try to give my own opinion those games whitout many words.. 
 
  and i think many player just look those numbers? ;) thx to undertanding me and good gaming
  
 
  
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  
  Graphic 7/10
  
  
  Sounds 6/10
  
  
  Gameplay 5/10
  
  
  Time Spent Playing 
  5-10hours if u like it?
  
  
  Difficulty
  easy-medium
  
  
  
 Gamevalue 5/10
  
  
  we allready see that.. nothing new in here, have to say its not a good car game. and most wanted 
 is beter one. and u shouldnt spend ur moneys in this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: spidy333
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 18, 2009 11:43 am PT
Review:  After finding that EA wanted to go after the more successful formula of Most Wanted, I was more 
 than elated that one of my favorite franchise is getting life back again. Now after I played the 
 game I feel that I am extremely wrong. 
  
  To say it in one line undercover is most wanted done bad.. incredibly bad. The tab button mechanic 
 is the worst in the game. There are no specific points where you can start a race instead there 
 are some vague points where you can press tab to start mission. And this is the most irritating 
 part of the game. And the cops are also not as good as most wanted. The game also has its merits 
 like highway battle and outrun are the two most exciting things they put in this version.
  
  My only hope is that EA will stop making a NFS game every year just to get some money. Overall 
 pick this game if you are die hard fan of NFS franchise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gggames_se
Rating: 3.5
Date: Feb 1, 2009 4:17 am PT
Review:  The police in Tri-City decides to make an attempt to infiltrate the international crime syndicate 
 of illegal street racers and car thieves that thrive around the streets of the city. One brave 
 officer is picked for the task, and he soon finds himself among gangs and thugs doing dangerous 
 jobs for them and partaking in the grittiest street races around to blend in.
  
  Need for Speed : Undercover is the 12th iteration of the famed Need for Speed game series. In this 
 game you play as the police officer who goes undercover to infiltrate the gang that has been causing 
 the police and citizens of Tri-City so much trouble. In order to infiltrate the gang, you have 
 to make yourself seen and respected by the criminals and in order to do that you must race them 
 and beat them in their own game. Doing this will also earn you money to allow for some better cars 
 and upgrades.
  
  Once you have started the game up, you'll instantly be taken to a scene where you must escape the 
 police chasing you down a highway. When you succeed you'll see an intro movie (with real life actors) 
 taking place at the police station and that's where your new job as an undercover cop begins. Your 
 partner Chase Linh will "fix you in", and tells you that your job is simply to drive. You're then 
 taken to the streets in a car and Chase Linh tells you to start winning some races and making some 
 ruckus in the underground scene.
  
  The first thing that annoys me in this game is that it treats you as if you were a little kid. 
 You don't get to select a car, you don't even get a chance to see the options screen before the 
 game begins and you don't get to select a game mode either. These are all mixed into the main game 
 in a very clunky and illogical way. To access these functions you must load your profile that automatically 
 starts the main game, and there press the escape key to reach the game menu. The fact that the 
 game comes translated doesn't make it any better  the translation is poorly worded, awkward, and 
 confusing. Another negative side about the menus is that it seems to want to randomly connect to 
 EA's online service  if you don't want to play it online, you'll find that you must cancel the 
 online connection window that pops up from time to time. The game as an auto save feature but it 
 isn't clear about when it does in fact save your progress. This whole game is a prime example of 
 "user friendliness" backfiring.
  
  The standard mode of the game is where you are free to drive where ever you want and explore the 
 Tri-City Bay Area. The area features about 130 km of road and some real effort has been put to 
 make the city look interesting, varied and detailed. Sadly enough the exploration aspect in this 
 game amounts to nothing  there is nothing for you to find really. Your GPS map will show you the 
 locations of various street races and events that are going on and that you can participate in. 
 You can either drive to the event location or just select it from the map and start it right away. 
 These races are most often sealed off tracks in the city environment and you can basically retry 
 them until you win and thus proceed in the story. Since they are sealed off tracks you won't experience 
 the tight traffic-action you might have expected. In fact you're lucky if you see a single car 
 on the road that isn't participating in the race!
  The main aim with these races is to collect money and driving reputation that will take you deeper 
 into the underground.
  
  When driving around in the city you can make money by destroying property and driving dangerously. 
 Once in a while you'll get noticed by the local police force that will then call in some back-up 
 and try to chase you down. If you get arrested you lose some money and the game continues. If you 
 get arrested three times with the same car, you will lose that car. If you manage to shake the 
 cops off of you, you gain some extra bonuses like money and street-reputation. When you've got 
 some cash you can buy new cars from the ones you currently have unlocked. The game is never clear 
 about how exactly you unlock new cars, but it seems to happen every now and then.
  
  The game features 19 American sports cars, 23 European and 12 Japanese. There are some very exciting 
 brand licenses included here like the Porche 911 GT2, BMW M6, Mitsubishi Lancer Evolution, Nissan 
 Skyline GT-R, Pontiac GTO and Chevrolet Chevelle SS. The game will also allow you to purchase and 
 unlock upgrades and new parts to each car. It's all nicely done but it feels pointless to tinker 
 around with the various tires, breaks and suspension upgrades and settings because the cars all 
 handle very good with their default settings. Not only that, but you're also given a slow-motion 
 quick-reflex feature that you can activate with the press of a button that basically will allow 
 you to perform impossible turns and stunts.
  
  The cut scenes between races are really a mixed bag. The actors aren't very convincing and the 
 camera is mostly just shaking around and making multiple inappropriate cuts  as if they tried 
 a fresh MTV style of footage but miserably failed. It's hard to place the events from the cut scenes 
 into the game world  mainly because the people you see in the cut scenes are not to be seen in 
 the game world. As a matter of fact, there are no people to be seen in the game world at all. There 
 are also cut scenes rendered with the game engine and they fit in much better than the live action 
 ones.
  
  Another issue with the game (that I assume is unique to the PC version) is related to the controls. 
 The game recognizes a gamepad as a device and it can be used to play the game but it will not allow 
 you to remap the buttons on the gamepad. This is a big problem because not all functions are mapped 
 on the gamepad by default  so there's a risk that you have to use the default keyboard keys instead 
 of the buttons on your gamepad for some functions. Otherwise the controls work fine. The cars are 
 very easy to handle and not even the hairpin curves prove a big problem  at least not with most 
 of the cars. Driving and racing is thus very lighthearted and very enjoyable at times.
  
  Your car will take damage when you hit a wall or collide with another vehicle, but it does not 
 seem to affect the cars functionality what so ever, and your car will automatically repair itself 
 between each race and event. Since you get bonuses from driving recklessly and the damages do not 
 affect your car or money, the game basically encourages you to drive like a mad man. Anyone can 
 do this  it takes no skill at all and that is discouraging. Besides, the fact that crashing into 
 other cars is a central thing isn't really what one would expect from a Need for Speed game.
  
  Need for Speed : Undercover has some promising multiplayer modes like the much welcomed "Cops 
 and Robbers" mode for up to eight people, and some standard races combined with leaderboards. There 
 are no LAN options however. This practically means that the day EA decides to take the official 
 servers down (which they never seem to be late about) , the game will lose its multiplayer functionality 
 altogether.
  
  At first sight you can't help to think that the graphics look pretty. It's bright, detailed and 
 colorful. The contrast between the light and the dark areas are interesting and helps the game 
 maintain a varied look and feel. The sun effects looks beautiful but the novelty wears of very 
 fast. The blur effects are way overdone and so are many other visual effects that they used in 
 this game. Some graphical problems are also present. Sometimes the road ends in a white fog, and 
 when you drive into that fog the next section of the map pops up in front of you  as if the game 
 couldn't render that piece of the map before you got there. This game seems like a cheap port of 
 the console versions and does not seem to be very carefully optimized to run on PC.
  
  The sound effects are very pleasing though. The different cars all seem to have their unique sound, 
 and the roaring sound of the engines fill the tunnels you drive through. Hearing the police talk 
 on the police radio as they chase you is very well done and entertaining.
  Generally the music in the game is a bland  some of the more rocky songs enhance the speedy rush 
 that the game tries to portray but there are many mellow beats mixed into the sound track that 
 doesn't sound anything like racing music. There's also a fair share of poppy songs that doesn't 
 fit the bill and should have been left out from being played during the races.
  
  Need for Speed : Undercover could have been a fantastic game. But as it appears now it just doesn't 
 cut it. The races are too short most of the time, and it's not very exciting to race in a city 
 environment if you are limited to sealed off tracks. It would have been awesome to experience a 
 long race through the busy city streets with a bunch of mad racers chasing you, but that's not 
 quite how it goes here. Being chased by the police is a fun adventure every time it happens, but 
 it isn't enough to keep you playing for a very long period.
  This game is basically just one big disappointment. It fails in so many ways and the few good aspects 
 of it are nowhere near what one expects from a Triple-A title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MilkmanDO
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 15, 2009 4:19 am PT
Review:  As I'm sure most of you were, even I was excited about getting EA's latest installment of the Need 
 for Speed franchise. All the rubbish they wrote on their site, saying how it was original, exciting 
 and had all-new everything was a major over exaggeration.
  
  When I got this game and first started playing it, I was shocked by how unrefined and patchy the 
 game was. Even when I first started up the game it looked very stingy. The weird blank black box 
 called autoplay was very different to the smooth, cool startup of GRID. Thinking it was just a 
 one off I pressed on to find one of the strangest setups ever. The fact that the game launches 
 you straight into the story mode is annoying like games that have a tutorial, and launch you straight 
 into it without caring whether you know how to play or not.
  
  Once you passed the lengthy cutscene you are then put into the fictious and detailed world of the 
 tri-city area. While as a whole the game looks impressive with prostreets graphics, it's in the 
 finer points where the game falls down. The shadows are seemingly drawn on and look like the shadows 
 you get from GTA: San Andreas. The motion blur may look fantastic but becomes very tacky at very 
 high speeds. Strangely, in my time playing this game I seemed to chasing a strange bright aqua 
 line across the landscape which may not be in your face, but it is still noticeable.
  
  What else that is irritating is the lack of a coventional main menu and instead the pause menu 
 is the main menu which is very confusing indeed. This means you bombarded with submenus when you 
 try to find something in specific. The damage system for the cars looks very good but lacks in 
 depth accuracy that GRID has.
  
  In some games there is a very engaging story but in this there is only a series of uninspiring 
 cutscenes which in a sense try a bit to hard to be all "cool" and "action packed". Seeing as Most 
 Wanted is the game EA is trying to duplicate here, why did they have to make you a cop? It gives 
 a sense that you don't have to try hard to escape the cops because, after all, you are on their 
 side. This probably has something to do with the fact that the cops aren't exactly competent in 
 this game. Anything over 3 minutes it's like they sort of just give up, a far cry from the 5-30 
 minute chases in Most Wanted. 
  
  Graphics in this game are good, shadows and other niggles aside. Extensive use of bloom however, 
 seems to make the game run in three colours: brown, grey and yellow. In some sections it practically 
 turns black and white.
  
  Driving in this game is unrealistic as I can take a sharp hairpin at max speed and survive. The 
 fact that you can slam into a wall at this speed in a sprint race and survive is really unrealistic 
 but confuses you even more as meeting a wall at lower speeds in highway battle means your car is 
 toast. Also, the inclusion of the buggatti veyron seems odd as the car in the game, stock, can 
 only reach 370-380km/h while in the real world it can reach 417km/h 
  
  In game I met many bugs and glitches including the EXTREMELY irritating bug where the game would 
 freeze then crash at a part just before a save point.
  
  Races, especially the jobs you have to do are fun but the other races feel repetitive after a while 
 and become tedious to complete.
  
  The plot of the game can be a bit predictable and the fact that in between jobs (the fun parts) 
 you have to increase your wheelman level by doing a helluva lot of races.
  
  The "My Cars" option which is a good feature is hindered by the ridiculous menu structure, I only 
 found it after I finished the game completely. The customization options are where some of the 
 games finer points shine through. Autosculpt can be restrictive but can help you create the car 
 you are after. A lengthy list of mods are all there for you to play with even though it can take 
 some time to reach the bottom. 
  
  Finally I don't agree with EA's claim that it is all new, the points in return for fancy driving 
 system that featured in underground 1&2 is back but gives you "in the zone" points. Also there 
 is nothing really new or amazing in this game, I don't see what the new game has over the old games
 
  
  In closing (finally) , NFS Undercover is a game that even the diehard fans will have trouble loving. 
 EA better lift it's game before it kills the series altogether.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nicolay77
Rating: 2.5
Date: Jan 14, 2009 9:40 am PT
Review:  I was expecting something like 'Carbon without the annoying crew members'.
  
  Man, how disappointed I was.
  
  First off they forgot that Carbon and Prostreet worked very 
 well with a real steering wheel like the Logitech G25, and basically I could not remove the annoying 
 'press the brake for reverse' feature. They have options to use the manual stick shifter, but obviously 
 they never tested the game with the G25, probably just copy-pasted code from Prostreet or Carbon 
 or something, while messing with the code and just making it incomplete and not really useful.
 
  
  And the city graphics are ugly, the cars are boring to drive, the cops don't behave like the ones 
 in Most Wanted, I can't select things with the mouse as I could with previous NFS games, it's a 
 total let down of a game.
  
  They made a beautiful intro screen, good looking videos, nice looking cars with damage modelling 
 and that's all, there's nothing else I can say about this game that is positive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sess1on
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 13, 2009 7:50 pm PT
Review:  How many times can EA recycle the same game and sell it for full price year after year? Honestly, 
 if you have played any Need for Speed game since Most Wanted, you have played them all. But with 
 each new entry the games get progressively more dull and less fun to play.
  
  The first Need for Speed game I played was Underground for PS2 years back. I was never really into 
 racing games but I was immediately blown away by the presentation of it. Everything about Underground, 
 the art direction, sound design, soundtrack, level design, etc, was solid. It truly captured what 
 I believe to be underground street racing.
  
  Then Underground 2 came along. It was good and fun, but wasn't the same. All the elements were 
 there but I just wasn't engaged and immersed into it as the first one had done. EA got cocky. Underground 
 was a gem and then they took all that made it great to the next level. They didn't need to, but 
 they did. It's here the series started to trip over itself.
  
  The last good game in the series then came along; Most Wanted. My first impression was in disgust 
 for the direction the series was going. Since I had only know the series from the Undergrounds, 
 seeing the game in constant daylight was upsetting. But, I gave it a shot, and, in turn, enjoyed 
 it a lot.
  
  Most Wanted lacked the style, culture, customization, and atmosphere Underground had. The game 
 had very little immersion as the level design and art direction were underdeveloped. Instead of 
 feeling like driving around in a realistic, busy metropolis at night you felt like you're driving 
 around in a designed, unrealistic world that could only exist in a video game. But the one redeeming 
 thing about the game were the cop chases. Even though EA could have done much more for it, it was 
 damn fun and gave the game a lot of replay value.
  
  Then Carbon came along and the series went on life support. It's like they were trying to make 
 Underground 3 but hated how it turned out half way through development so they gave it a new name. 
 Carbon is essentially Underground and Most Wanted combined into one game with all the good elements 
 left out. Then we get Pro Street, and finally, Undercover. Both of which are recycled, underdevelopment, 
 incomplete, and unfun games.
  
  There is a trend I have noticed throughout the series, and with EA as a company. When something 
 is even remotely successful, they will cash in on it as much as they can. Underground 2, Carbon, 
 Pro Street, and Undercover all all cash-ins. But with each new cash-in, they add a few good elements 
 that have great potiental. It's like they're beta testing things for sixty dollars a pop. Autosculpt, 
 free-roaming/sandbox world, RPG elements, cop chases. They're all great ideas and concepts but 
 EA never seems to develop them with any depth.
  
  Then there are all the countless great ideas and concepts that the series never even considers. 
 Even little things like giving the player the ability to customize what their license plate says 
 or giving the game a day/night cycle. Maybe a well designed, realistic city that's fun to drive 
 in. What about art direction that isn't completely over the top for no reason whatsoever? Or maybe 
 a game that isn't an uninspired and recycled cash-in?
  
  But that won't happen. None of that will. EA doesn't listen to what the fans say or want. They 
 listen to the sales figures and that's it. And since that is a sad fact, I urge EA to attempt and 
 give the fans Underground 3 and then pull the plug on the series. It's had a good run, but let's 
 not over do it, okay? Oh, wait. Too late.
  
  tl; dr - No Need for Speed game has been good since Underground and EA needs to fix this by actually 
 making a new game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameObserver
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 13, 2009 5:40 am PT
Review:  Electronic Arts is known for a lot of things: popular sports games, trendy production, gobbling 
 up smaller developers and being the root of all evil. The most consistent of all its labels has 
 to be EA's incessant milking of popular franchises (The Sims anyone?) . Need for Speed falls into 
 that category. Ever since Distinctive Software (EA Canada) first released the title in 1994 for 
 3DO, a slew of sequels followed. Last year's Need for Speed Pro Street took a break from the all-pervading 
 need to escape authorities while devastating innocent bus stops, much to the chagrin of many fans, 
 but for better or worse the franchise is back to its roots. 
  
  Need for Speed: Undercover continues in EA's shameless tradition of re-releasing virtually the 
 same game with a few tweaks. At this point, the franchise practically begs for something fresh 
 in the "cops vs. street racers" formula, but as it stands, this version is a no-nonsense, straight-to-the-action 
 experience without the metrosexual undertones of Need for Speed Carbon. This time, it's all about 
 gritty racing with fewer Barbies and Kens in plastic toy cars arguing over who is better "groomed". 
 The game seriously lacks in originality so beware; it's the same old NFS, albeit in a lighter package. 
 This new street racer is perfect for people dipping their toes in the world of Need for Speed for 
 the first time, but it may feel a bit exhausted for veterans of the franchise. 
  
  
  MEET THE NEW NEED FOR SPEED "LITE"
  
  The best way to describe Need for Speed: Undercover is 
 by comparing it to a new diet soda with cherry flavor and a zipping label... It's still the same 
 popular drink with an absurdly recognizable brand name and taste, but it's apparent that the makers 
 are too scared to try something new. Similarly this new NFS installment offers what its predecessor 
 had, though in a corporately diluted kind of way. Undercover is a good game, but the formula -- 
 right down to the way players find events -- has been used so much, EA is practically begging its 
 core fan base to stick with the old format, even though many would rather move on. 
  
  Nevertheless, it's a slimmer, improved package. Gone are the "wingmen" of Carbon. Also absent is 
 the testosterone and artificial "attitude" of previous NFS games. Players take on the role of an 
 undercover agent trying to infiltrate the world of street racing. Action is told through decent 
 cut-scenes with bearable acting. No Oscars here, but at least things aren't as bad as in Pro Street 
 and are less campy than in Carbon from an artistic point of view. 
  
  Everything is trimmed to accentuated action. Players are thrown into the thick of things at the 
 intro with a race through a Tri-City highway and an entire police precinct giving chase -- as clear 
 a disassociation from Pro Street's track racing as you can get. It's back to old business with 
 in a magnanimous police barricade collision at the very beginning.
  
  The tempo is what mainly sets Undercover from Carbon. The story is told through a series of MTV-paced 
 scenes depicting special agent Chase Linh (ya, clever) coordinating your undercover operation 
 from dimly lit sky rise offices. You are tasked with infiltrating the world of street racing. The 
 first missions revolve around getting the attention of potential gangs. Players must ransack public 
 property (bus stops) and other drivers to get the attention of the police. Once cops give chase, 
 you run like hell in an open-ended city 
  
  Missions eventually evolve into to more traditional street racing events. Circuit races, Sprints 
 and Checkpoints are back. Drift is gone and Duel no longer begs the issue, having been revamped 
 and rechristened Outrun and Highway Battle, both offering a few improvements while maintaining 
 the "duel" quality. No more "quickies" on the streets; no more annoying crew mates during events 
 and gimmicky skills, and no more turfs. Players are simply asked to burn rubber, and burn it good 
 and often. Controls are responsive and crisp, as usual.
  
  
  SOMETHING OLD, SOMETHING NEW, SOMETHING RED AND BLUE
  
  Police chases have a more pronounced 
 role than in Carbon, and unlike the latter, players will have a much easier time getting away from 
 the men in blue, at least while free roaming. Most chases will last a minute or two. This is mainly 
 due to shaky police AI and destructible objects available to slow cops down. Ramming destructible 
 items like construction material will always stop the law in its tracks, which is an improvement 
 from previous games, but unfortunately the effect needs some tweaking as squad cars that can clearly 
 pass or avoid debris are usually stopped dead in their tracks. The feature feels a bit unnatural. 
 
  
  The game features a variety of law-evading missions, the most common being Escape and Cost to State 
 and Cop Takedown. All three offer a variation of destruction and evasion and give more experience 
 points than the standard racing missions. Experience improves various skills -- tires, transmission, 
 engine, breaks, earning bonuses, parts discounts -- independent of physical car upgrades. Points 
 are given out after every race, depending on how well the player drives, but cop missions are specifically 
 designed for that. 
  
  A handful of complimentary "grand theft auto" Escape missions are injected into the plot on occasion, 
 breaking the monotony of roaming the Tri-City area in your personal ride. Said missions are preceded 
 by a cut scene of you leaving a parking lot with a stolen car, only to be chased by the law. Success 
 is measured by evading the police and reaching a mark on the map with the vehicle intact. A few 
 variations of the same game type exist, some of which don't have a "car damage" meter, but more 
 depth here could have done the game type some major good. I'm not asking EA to have an "on foot" 
 aspect similar to GTA, but the ability to pick your cars before stealing them, or the option to 
 buy the hot car or its parts at a discount at the end of the mission would have been sweet. Basically, 
 a million things could have been included, but weren't.
  
  
  AS LONG AS THE ROAD DOESN'T END
  
  Outrun events put players behind a single opponent with 
 the objective to pass and stay ahead for a certain amount of time. The concept is fun but needs 
 improving. The car in the lead can drive anywhere it pleases with the trailing adversary having 
 a limited amount of time to take the lead. Sounds good, but the free-roaming nature of the mission 
 can be head-bangingly infuriating. I personally experienced failing to pass an opponent despite 
 approaching at a speed that would normally put me in the lead, simply because the opponent decided 
 to turn at the last second on an intersection while I kept driving forward. The rule of the event 
 is to stay ahead but that rule is blurred when opponents are neck and neck and the leader simply 
 decides to take another route without the player's knowledge, since one can't glance to the sides, 
 only to the back. Who leads is also muddled when making u-turns. Doing so puts AI into a knot with 
 the computer always having to pass the incoming player before itself doing a 180 maneuver and attempting 
 to catch up. Computer controlled opponents will also get stuck trying to pass through solid objects 
 to catch up.
  
  Highway Battle resembles Outrun except players are asked to put a maximum distance between their 
 opponent. The game type is in first perspective. Unequivocally, it's not the easiest of modes, 
 because after driving around in 3rd perspective the switch to 1st perspective will leave more than 
 a few drivers disoriented, especially since action takes place in heavy traffic. Players will often 
 misjudge distance between passing vehicles and hit them, resulting in failed races. Such missions 
 can be a bit frustrating but they are often brisk and fun when things go well that is. Many later 
 Highway Battles produce strange results. I have had races where I was competitive throughout the 
 event and other instances (same race) where my opponent literally flew away at warp speed from 
 the start. The sight was downright comical, but it left me scratching my head, since I didn't do 
 anything different between attempts. Having said that, at later stages players will often rely 
 on their opponents making a mistake in order to win.
  
  A few missions will ask you to take down opponents or protect other drivers. Here players will 
 see icons above their aggressors and colleagues. Overall such events are fun, but the game's AI 
 again fails the test on a few points. Computer opponents, like their police counterparts, react 
 to who is in their line of sight, regardless of what is in front of them. I had an instance where 
 three "black" cars (bad guys) got stuck behind a concrete barrier around a building while trying 
 to get to me. All three idiots attempted to pass the solid object for a few minutes even though 
 the barrier was only a few feet wide.
  
  Like in previous Need for Speed games, cars accumulate "heat" points that draw unwanted police 
 attention. Players can no longer spend money to remove "heat" off their rides, which is a downer. 
 Money in Need for Speed: Undercover is only used to buy cars, upgrades and visual changes. 
  
  All of the aforementioned game types (except cop missions) give cash, though Tournament races 
 (the equivalent of circuit but more "important") offer cars as prizes. Esthetic customization has 
 been clearly toned down. Players are no longer able to place art on their rides anywhere they please, 
 or reshape them for that matter. This aspect clearly took a hit. 
  
  
  LADIES AND GENTLEMEN WE ARE SPOILED
  
  What can be said of the levels? Everything takes place 
 in rather impressive-looking cities and surrounding areas. They are on par with what has been released 
 in most driving games with open-ended elements. Clearly, such designs should wow and awe anybody 
 playing for the first time, but they won't impress all the spoiled gamers out there (and we're 
 all spoiled at this point) . It should be mentioned that unlike Carbon, everything takes place in 
 the day, which is disappointing because cities would have really looked nice in neon, or any other 
 weather effects for that matter. Furthermore, after playing for a few hours players will notice 
 many familiar-looking areas during races. The Tri-City bay only looks big on the surface.
  
  Graphically Need for Speed: Undercover tries a bit too much. High speeds cause blurring, like 
 the ones found in many 70's soft-core porn movies But in general, everything looks very realistic. 
 High speeds will sometimes confuse players with all the details, especially on sharp curves, but 
 in general the game looks great. Now if only Need for Speed would finally add some pedestrians.
 
  
  Sound and music are a mixed bag. Some tunes are memorable while most are downright forgettable. 
 The tack list also seems a bit leaner compared to previous racing titles. Players will notice the 
 same handful of tunes recycled countless times, maybe because few tracks stand out. The ambient 
 music in menus is quite good, though. As one would expect from an EA game, sound effects are topnotch 
 both in police chatter and car engine noises. Different engine pitches when glancing back or changing 
 the camera view should have been added.
  
  
  SUMMARY
  
  Overall, Need for Speed: Undercover is a decent game but it is disappointingly similar to its predecessors. 
 It doesn't try to break the mold, opting to trim things by focusing on racing rather than plot. 
 The story's pacing and mixture of plot-driven events is spread out evenly. They always come at 
 the right moment. This NFS is definitely not boring, but it is stale production-wise. Gameplay 
 is also in need of a major shift. EA should focus on adding pedestrians and life on the streets 
 in future Need for Speed games, as well as more customization options and all the elements leading 
 up to races. The world of street racing is complex from an underground point of view, and this 
 installment of the series does little to tap its full potential. 
  
  
  GRAPHICS 82
  Realistic city designs and nice cars, though a bit overdone in some effects. Locations become repetitive 
 with time. 
  
  GAMEPLAY 70
  Numerous issues with the new game modes, but racing is crisp and responsive. Stupid artificial 
 intelligence. 
  
  PRODUCTION 65
  Game definitely took a major cutback in production, offering fewer plot features. The underground 
 street racing world is barely skimmed. Meaningless plot.
  
  SOUND 84
  A few memorable tracks, but in general racing tunes are weak. Menu music is great. A colorful orchestra 
 of sound effects.
  
  LASTING APPEAL 73
  Plenty of racing events puts game time at around 15 hours in single player, with online play extending 
 the action somewhat, but the formula is getting old.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: katana18
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 12, 2009 5:31 am PT
Review:  I tried to like the game. Honestly, I did! I played all the way past the first city, bought the 
 best cars for my level, and was a good honest undercover racer until I couldn't stop swearing.
 
  
  Technically, the graphics are above average, with special commendation to the car textures. The 
 problem? The game suffers from frame rate spikes. Frequently. I'm running a Core 2 Duo and a 8800GTS 
 card, so I shouldn't have any problems playing this game with max detail on. This is not just my 
 comment either. All reviews that I've read seem to finger this very annoying and game breaking 
 flaw.
  
  The sounds, unlike previous NFS games, suck. Look, all the engines sound the same. The music is 
 bland and uninspired. It just sounds like some generic trash pop band. I listened to Bon Jovi on 
 Media Player after playing for 10 hours, after not hearing even 1 soundtrack that didn't suck.
 
  
  The gameplay is basically the same as NFS Underground and its whole series of successors. It works. 
 It's nothing hardcore, it's not a driving sim, and it should be pretty simple to dominate all the 
 races. Only it isn't.
  
  The first third portion of races are easy, and can be dominated easily. There are a couple of highway 
 battles that are quite challenging (note I said challenging, not frustrating yet) . However, after 
 you make the journey to the next city, the difficulty level jumps so rapidly that you'd be a saint 
 if you didn't scream all sorts of expletives at the game. Even thinking about it makes my blood 
 boil.
  
  Picture this: you're driving a Nissan, Maxda, or Lotus Elise. You're up against another 7 Porches, 
 Mercs, or even Lambos. You can't win without going through the track perfectly, which is bloody 
 impossible because of all the frame rate spikes. After playing through half of the game, I gave 
 up, uninstalled, and went to do something worthwhile.
  
  Look, I'm not against racing games or whatnot. In fact, I found NFS Underground 1 & 2 to be very 
 enjoyable. I thought Undercover would be more of the same, with various improvements. Too bad.
 
  
  The bottom line is this: NFS Undercover just sucks. There's no other way to say it. The story sucks, 
 the driving sucks (obviously) , the choice of cars are nice, but you will never get to drive them 
 without the help of a trainer. This is one game I'm glad I pirated. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: s1401
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 11, 2009 3:30 am PT
Review:  I've read many opinions about that game. Most of that was saying that its wast of time. So i start 
 and after 30min stop playing. Its true, first cars are really not to good. Driving model is disappointed. 
 Few days ago, i was really bored, and a try NFS ones more. I have played a little time more, get 
 a new wheels, and everything changed. Graphics was average, sound really nice, and driving model 
 gets better and better.
  I've just ended that game, and i must say, overall its really great game. You need to make through 
 first hour, and after that you will by surprised how good it is. That, what it was in my case !!!
 
  Even after ending this game, I'm still playing. I want to clear all map, driving my Bugatti Veyron 
 405km/h. I almost forget. There is something new in this game. Slow motion. You can turn it on, 
 and drive true highway 400km/h, overtaking other cars driving 100km/h, without even scratch. Great 
 fun. So ones more, don't be influenced by somebody's view. Try it, you will not regret.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RICHYIII
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 10, 2009 9:19 am PT
Review:  The latest addition of the Need For Speed Series. I waited 4 months for this game to come out and 
 I think that it was worth the wait. The physics are one of a kind. When I put it into reverse and 
 turn the car does a 180 almost by itself. The customizing was turned down a little from ProStreet 
 (less options) but it is still fun to take your car and pimp it out. There are many kinds of races 
 circuit, sprint, highway battle, and many different cop battles like cost to state (try to get 
 the highest cost to state by damaging property) . Undercover takes illigeal street racing back to 
 the roots with very realistic graphics, and very good gameplay. Here is my breakdown: (1-10)
  
  Graphics: 9.0
  Sound: 8.0
  Physics: 8.5
  Car Handling: 9.5
  Overall Quality: 9.0
 
  
  I recommend this game to people who like to run from the cops going 200+ MPH around the Tri City. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bballerjp15
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 6, 2009 3:50 pm PT
Review:  This game is almost exactly the same as most wanted but its better in some ways and its worse in 
 some ways. Whats better is that there is more cars to choose from and way more customization options. 
 there is also a way better multiplayer. there is more game modes to choose from and you can race 
 with 4 players instead of just 2. Whats worse is the career mode. It feels disorganized you basically 
 just keep to doing random events. there is no point to doing pursuits unless your given a pursuit 
 event. And the pursuits arent as good either. the pursuits were perfect in most wanted and the 
 pursuits in this game feel like a cheap copy of most wanted.
  
  this game is good for multiplayer but im only doing the career mode so i can unlock everything. 
 if your looking good pursuits buy most wanted its only like $20 now and its career mode is better. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: x2847446
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 6, 2009 2:10 pm PT
Review:  Need For Speed Undercover is good ? is it bad ? i wish i know that... I have a core2 duo E8400 
 2048 ram (fast memories) Gforce 9600 GT 512mb... the game is so slow i cant play it even if i set 
 all graphics to low its impossible to play... it should be a LAW in the market that stoped this 
 kind of games from coming to the PC... pleople buy the game but they cant play it... its like buying 
 a TV a CAR or a TOASTER etc.. that doesnt work !!! what else can i say ... is anyone that can play 
 this game without breaks ? recently ive changed my PC memories for a better and more fast 2GB memories 
 i thought that would make the game faster... but its always running slow.. also no Patch as been 
 released and i think it will never be a patch that can fix this SLOWING problem... so i think i 
 will just not miss anything special for not playing the game.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Predator123
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jan 5, 2009 7:26 pm PT
Review:  There is nothing (man I can not make NOTHING, bold enough) new in the incarnation of the need for 
 speed series. This reminds me of all other EA sports games, its the same gameplay, same engine, 
 same graphics, same cars, same story, (same bad, your going reallly fast motion blur effects, which 
 btw do not happen in real life...) just re-branded with a different title.
  
  This should be called Most Wanted 2, however it does not even feel like a sequal to that game. 
 ok where to start.. they have removed the need for you to drive to a race, explore the city challenge 
 other lone racers ect, doing so making this a very linear game, what is the sense of an "open world" 
 street racing game where you just follow the next sequence of events in a row to complete the races. 
 With a click of the tab key you start the next race without doing anything, I bet if you sat down 
 with enough coca cola and snacks you could tab your way through the entire game in one day.
  
  The graphics system needs to be Deleted from the EA hard drives and they need to start over 
 from scratch. Nothing new graphically is presented in undercover, and I am refering to the pc version 
 with all settings to max and run at 1920x1200 on a Core i7 920, with an ATI 4850X2 overclocked. 
 I would actaully say the evironment does not look any different then it did 5 years ago. The other 
 cars on the street are clearly low polly count and have a very booring unevntfull damage model. 
 That also brings up the fact that if you just ram enough police cars you will eventually evade 
 them, with no ill effects, what is this burnout?
  
  There is much more but I dont want to waste my time, I will load of Pro Street and actually have 
 some fun playing an original game, not a remade clone of Most Wanted. I will give this game a 4.5/10. 
 Why? becuasse anyone that is new to the series might find that it is a fun acracde racer, but for 
 anyone that has followed the series, stay away. No wonder people pirate games, when you are asked 
 to pay $45 for a rebranded version of an old Need For Speed game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bg4ever
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 4, 2009 8:20 am PT
Review:  Scowly antiheroes and sexy, cleavage-packed molls return in live-action cutscenes for Need for 
 Speed: Undercover, the sixth installment of the series since the franchise was reimagined in 2003 
 and taken underground. Following last year's disappointing Need for Speed: ProStreet, Black Box 
 and EA went back to a known winner, the cops-and-robbers formula of 2005's Need for Speed: Most 
 Wanted. You're infiltrating a stolen auto ring, whose members are blissfully unaware of your cop 
 credentials, and also the larger international ramifications of their car thievin'.
  
  Care to take a spin? Drop it into third and see our review.
  
  Everything is for sale at any 
 point in the game (I assume) regardless of whether you have unlocked it. Just pony up enough Microsoft 
 points. Around level 11 I treated myself to a McLaren F1. This can drastically change the tenor 
 of your career - the acquisition of pink slip cars loses its sense of satisfaction. I don't necessarily 
 think this is a good idea, but I can't say it's a bad one. It certainly is profitable for EA and 
 Microsoft. 
  
  The exceptional sound is not to be taken for granted in a genre that is so heavily involved with 
 the visuals. One of the simple pleasures is taking in each car's unique engine note when you're 
 a good six seconds ahead of the field and out on the open road. In solo mode, you should play it 
 with headphones on. The engine whine of trailing cars is matched, in volume, to their relative 
 distance; destruction will register to your sides and behind. In races you will get an immersive 
 feeling of the world whizzing by. 
  
  Need for Speed: Undercover returns the series back to its Most Wanted evolution, as opposed to 
 2006's Carbon, whose story was more about pure street racing. Most Wanted was excellent; Carbon, 
 a little underwhelming. But if either appealed to you strongly, the guts of a long game experience 
 are here, if you can take your time and try to live a little within the persona the game's laid 
 out for you. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: king_pro_aza
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 3, 2009 2:12 am PT
Review:  the cars in Undercover seem to be very unrealistic. i first thought the Physics of the cars were 
 atrocious. you turn one little bit, and the car would turn 90 degrees. (even with my game pad set 
 on 10% sensitivity) . 
  
  as soon as the cars get faster, the driving isn't as bad. and the game gets interesting when you 
 do more than just the usual circuit/sprint races. 
  
  i started to get a "this is starting to get fun" feeling when you are told to total the gang leaders' 
 cars. then you start getting performance parts and unlock another city/town. 
  
  disadvantages, there's a few. one of them that really bugs me is that i can't play it maxed out 
 ==" (not even on my 4850!) and also, the 
  auto sculpt is annoyingly slow. even if you hold the left/right button, it increases in like 2's. 
 they should keep it like how it was in Pro street, where it would increase in increments of 10, 
 if you held it. then you could increase in 1s if you kept pressing the button.
  
  in conclusion, it's worth playing. I'd say it's not the best current NFS (Pro street and U2, as 
 well as MW IMO) but it's good enough. 
  I'd certainly say give it a try. just bear the first hour of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maenam
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 28, 2008 2:29 am PT
Review:  I dont usaully write on these, this is my first one, but i think that the reviews for this are 
 VERY harsh. It is an excellent NFS better than most with exception of carbon, and a must own racing 
 game for NFS fans, lets not forget also that is only 18 at the moment : ] , i have quite a high 
 spec machine so appreciate that people are complaining that it does not run correctly on there 
 machine BUT that is no reason to give the game a low score, stop being a cheap skate and get some 
 power under your PC hood.
  
  In short excellent graphics fun gameplay and awesome MP options
  
  Gamespot sums it up nicely 
 
  
  "The online cops and robbers mode, where the robber tries to pick up money and take it to a drop-off 
 point while another person plays the cop and tries to ram them, is quite a bit of fun. But mostly 
 what the game gets right is its pacing. The races are short -- sometimes as short as 20 seconds, 
 and almost never longer than five minutes. Another cool thing the game does is it lets you instantly 
 jump to the closest race by pressing down on the D pad. If you want to find a specific event you 
 can press up and you're taken to a GPS map, where you can instantly go to the race of your choice. 
 It'll save you a lot of needless backtracking, and combined with the short races, makes sure that 
 Undercover never gets boring. 
  
  If you're one of the many people who loved Need for Speed Most Wanted, flaws and all, you'll find 
 a lot to like in Undercover. It's not very original, but there's no denying that it's just good 
 fun to run from the cops and wreak havoc on a city in the process"
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: vikasgori
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 27, 2008 9:15 am PT
Review:  actually to say about this game in overall is okay!
  i was wating for a long time for this game but its not that worth to be waited for.
  the difficulty 
 is okay.
  graphics very good but thought would be more attractive.
  story mode not so powerful and impressive this time.
  to say about EA means king of games but 
 this time they have lodt their personality in doing something different..
  but they atleast tried to do so..
  overall i will give 7 to 7.5 out of 10..
  and the main thing 
 that at the time of play or races there are some places where it starts loading for a second... i 
 dont know whats that but thats to irritating..
  the handling of cars is just too good...
  i liked that very much..
  the roads are nice but too shiny somtimes... thats a negative point 
 or something bad for me..
  i hope that EA will not dissapoint us next time in NFS series...
  :) - thank you, GORI 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NavIGOtoR25
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 27, 2008 7:25 am PT
Review:  NFS Undercover - simple, good, but lifeless and uninteresting racing. Certainly, there is and pluses 
 - an excellent graphics, good rollers, but  
 nothing, itself gameplay. But in these plus other people will find one defect. Light racing, empty 
 streets, foolish police - only small part of all irritations. The Pleasing picture somehow pleases, 
 but all afore-mentioned - disillusions before limit. Though, one, did not play in NFS several years, 
 will are interested and enthusiastic passing. However after Most Wanted - Undercover blunting wasting 
 of time for uncomfortable easy chair of the beautiful machines. Even Carbon seems better last part. 
 Nearly neither that does not rescue Undercover, nor graphics, nor rollers - even so developer it 
 is necessary to remake the play and bring new, unusual that will force with delight to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sharier
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 27, 2008 2:20 am PT
Review:  I have played all but one NFS (last year's NFS was too terrible and unattractive for me) since 
 1995. I enjoy playing NFS, irrespective of so-so Gamespot rating, because it gives me a speedy 
 action racing game. I prefer NFS to any racing simulations. Typically NFS meets my expectations, 
 plus or minus 5 percent (except for last year's -- the name of which I even forgot) .
  This time I picked up NFS cautiously. Judging from the name, I guessed it would be close to Most 
 Wanted. But I was still expecting something new. New gamestyles, new types of races etc.
  The opening of the game failed to surprise me -- though it took me directly to the action resembling 
 Most Wanted. 
  But this game has a little bit twist -- the flavour of which emerges gradually, as you play on for 
 hours. 
  You are a cop who befriends the underground racing world to trackdown a ring of smugglers. Some 
 of these small time thugs will become your friend, yet you have to betray them by arresting them 
 (which is a new racing style itself) . You will face all the Most Wanted challenges, plus more. 
 And yes, the NFS world in this game is very big. I am impressed. 
  If you play the game for more than four hours you will be able to distinguish the game's original 
 character. And oh yes, you will enjoy the chases, races and evasive actions. There are some new 
 cars, which you would like to try out. Throughout the game making money remains a big challenge 
 and you will need money to upgrade your parts or buy upper tier cars. Though most races are easy 
 to win, some races are very tough to win in just one go due to heavy traffic setting. Go ahead 
 and try it out. Its not going to disappoint you -- even if it fails to surprise you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Porsche-Lover
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 26, 2008 4:21 pm PT
Review:  What's wrong with EA ? i don't know if i'm the the only one who's noticed this or what, i mean 
 look at the whole series, it's failing apart starting from NFS Carbon.
  
  Normally, when a respectable company announces new a product, it should be honest about it or else 
 it will lose it's reputation in the market like EA's done with it's trailer, it's better if they 
 give up and sell the project to someone else rather than killing it!
  
  Why can't they just make "NFS Porsche II" which is the best NFS and top scored as well, with keeping 
 the same DNA of the original "Porsche" game, plus adding new off-road competitions with the Porsche 
 Cayenne or a high end hard core racings with the Carrera GT and so on. Man i think that's enough 
 for words, but i really can't imagine that Undercover is that bad, i thought they'd learned from 
 Pro Street.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djaaronp287
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 24, 2008 11:05 pm PT
Review:  When I seen the teaser trailer for this game I thought to myself "Oh my, it's back with a vengeance".
 
  
  I was really disappointed with need for speed carbon (the way you were in teams made the game too 
 easy) , there wasn't much improvement to the graphics and in a nutshell the gameplay was worse due 
 to it being easy.
  
  When I popped need for speed undercover in the drive and seen the opening cutscene I was expecting 
 a loading screen to follow which goes to not as good graphics, but to my surprise the camera zoomed 
 in onto the car and I began to drive in amazement at how good the gameplay graphics actually were. 
 There were a few graphical glitches, but nothing a few updates for my graphics card couldn't fix 
 and to my surprise again I noticed the High Definition Textures pack that had been released so 
 I thought I would try that out.
  
  I noticed a difference immediately, I recommend to anyone with HD screens who own this game on 
 their pc to immediately get the HD Textures pack, it really adds to the atmosphere.
  
  Anyway back to the game:
  
  Graphics Score: 9/10
  
  The graphics whether using the texture 
 pack or not are outstanding for the generation we are in today. Yeah sure maybe not as good as 
 the likes of fallout 3, but good enough for a racing game in my opinion.
  
  Gameplay Score: 10/10
  
  To some, 10 may seem a bit too high a score. But in my opinion gamespot 
 and a lot of its users have highly underated this game. Some of the new gameplay types are fantastic 
 and very cinematic, they really add to the atmosphere of the game and get very difficult to win 
 when you get half way through the game. Even the racing seems a bit better than most wanted and 
 carbon, but it does still have the same adrenaline pumped feeling I got from most wanted that i 
 didn't get from carbon which I am extremely happy about.
  
  If you are going to get this game, when you do a highway battle you will see exactly what I am 
 talking about!
  
  Atmosphere Score: 10/10
  
  It may seem a bit weird to score the atmosphere of a game, but as man once said "the purpose of 
 games is to escape reality". Therefore the atmosphere has to be just right for the game to suck 
 you to the screen. I think this game delivers the atmosphere perfectly (especially considering 
 its an EA game) , I hope Need For Speed future sequels will stay like this forever. The acting on 
 the fmv sequences is good, some of the fmv sequences go on for a while but I don't complain as 
 they are nowhere near as bad as metal gear solid 3 was. I think the fmv sequence add more to the 
 game, make it seem less repetitive and the story gets you a lot more involved in the game.
  
  Realism Score: 9/10
  
  No game on this earth is 100 percent realistic, the physics in this 
 game I cannot compare to real life as I do not know much about cars. However, I will say that it 
 did feel like I was driving a real car on this game throughout. Also Id like to mention the customization 
 of cars is still spot on, but EA you really need to get us a night time game with neons again, 
 that is what I miss more than anything.
  
  Replayable: Definently!
  
  Conclusion:
  
  This game has not improved much gameplay wise since most wanted, but compared to carbon and 
 pro street this game kicks ass. Ye sure, pro street was intended to be a more realistic game for 
 racing sports fans. But lets face it, how many realistic sports racing games are there already, 
 need for speed is called need for speed for a reason!
  
  The new gameplay modes were thought out well, and were not a desperate attempt to add more variety 
 to the game. A lot of the game seems similar to most wanted so I can see why gamespot gave such 
 a low score. They don't tend to believe in sticking to a formula that works, they like everything 
 to be new. But let's face it, most wanted was a flawless game, and all I ever wanted from ea is 
 another most wanted with a wider range of cars more improved visuals and physics engine and more 
 variety of gameplay.
  
  And let me say, they have more than outdone themself with this game, I have never had so much fun 
 on a racing game until I played this. My only regret about this game is with another 5 months work 
 it could have been so much better, EA needs to stop rushing things all the time!
  
  Must have for racing fans! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raphal
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 24, 2008 9:42 pm PT
Review:  If you are like me, then you know where the Need for Speed games began. The humble beginnings of 
 Need for Speed III and High Stakes, which were, in my honest opinion, instant classics. I adore 
 those games even to this day. I must say I was also a huge fan of Most Wanted, because it brought 
 back some of the substance that NFS seemed to lack for the past few years. Naturally, I was very 
 excited for Undercover, and with a smile on my face, went to the store and bought this game, hoping 
 it would be worth the wait. Boy was I wrong.
  
  Graphics:
  Unfortunately, what I was greeted with was a technical mess, a 50% finished game. I thought all 
 the tech issues were because of outdated video drivers and whatnot. My hardware is completely fine, 
 but the game... was not. First of all, let me mention the shadows. If you are still living in the 
 early 21st century, pixelated shadows shouldn't be a problem. But for most gamers like me, they 
 are a huge problem. I don't know if EA did this on purpose, but... MOVING SHADOWS? c'mon people, 
 this is ridiculous. The shadows move when your car is moving, and the faster you move.. the faster 
 they move. Not to mention there are random shadows where there shouldn't be, and flickering textures 
 and randomly lit polygons. The graphics engine is very outdated, and does not utilize the technology 
 available to them. It just feels like a very bad re-run episode of NFS. We've seen it all, time 
 and time again... but this time it's a mere disaster graphics wise. Like I said before, this game 
 is not even close to even being Alpha in my book.
  
  Gameplay:
  Where oh where do I begin... Let's begin at the handling of a car. If you've been go-karting recently, 
 you'll know how these cars handle... to sharply. The turning radius is is sharper than a lawnmower 
 (exaggeration, but you get the idea) . It doesn't feel like a car whatsoever. If they would've put 
 the handling of ProStreet mixed with the substance of Most Wanted, they would have a quite a game 
 here, but then again... it would be another repeat. But then again, this IS a racing game., something 
 that has been done over and over again, and I understand that it is hard to come up with something 
 new and exciting here, but at least let it be entertaining and fun.
  
  The police pursuits are another weakness of this game. They seemed to be ported directly from Carbon, 
 and horribly as well. The cop AI is awful, unless you like easy getaways, these cops should be 
 working for the salvation army instead of the police force. This is something the devs definitely 
 focus on.
  
  One more thing I'd like to touch on. The overall way the races are handled. The AI is way too easy, 
 and why do we even have a map if we're constantly being reminded with a flashing green sign on 
 the bottom of our screen where we're supposed to go? I don't even see the point of free roam in 
 this game. 
  
  Overall.
  Well the only fun thing I've found so far in this entire game is the highway battles. Those I must 
 say are new and entertaining, but even then they feel like those canyon battles in Carbon, without 
 the stress of being thrown off a cliff and losing. I'll tell you what, unless they sell the rights 
 to NFS to another company, I'm probably never going to buy these games again. Too much work was 
 thrown out the window here, and obviously they don't have their consumers in their hearts. It seems 
 all they want is a fat paycheck and a lot of hype. They couldn't care less about quality assurance. 
 I miss the days where racing games were huge on the market. I remember sitting with my friends 
 playing NFS Hot Pursuit 2 and Underground. Now all I have is memories of the good ol' days before 
 EA went downhill. I don't believe a word that comes out of their mouths unless they say "we screwed 
 up" but even then, do they believe they've screwed up? I don' t know... but I do know that I'm never 
 going to buy an NFS game again; I'll probably rent next time.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sephiroth36
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 24, 2008 9:33 am PT
Review:  Let me start with the series of Need for speed, as ive been playing them ever since the old PC 
 version and the first one from play station 1, the series have been decaying piece by piece.
  
  As for the graphics, well, ive seen better, even the game does use almost the same graphics 
 capacity like the past games, but the only things that keep coming is those nasty effects that 
 developers think they are nice and neat and mostly clean, who knows where their heads are, since 
 blurry effects, over rated flare reflections out of the floor and other stuff aren't normal, those 
 2 things if we see them in the real world, we do need to check out eyes in the eye doctor. Plus 
 later in the game all of the sudden the game start to suffer of some serious memory leaks but specially 
 with my video card, sometimes it get fixed but is like a cycle, the i start seeing that the cars 
 start to change color and to show the problems with the rendering system for the textured.
  
  The music not much to say but is ok...
  
  The game play hasn't improved over the years 
 but at least i can do pit maneuvers to the cars that are close to me as in the past games for some 
 unknown reason i had to force the car to do it. The start of the game tend to dissipate but at 
 least later on things get more interesting in its way. Plus i could say but know knows if its only 
 me, the A. I. if brought all together, they can be serious animals hitting each other and creating 
 a mess as ive been in various problems lately. Hey, they could have done a car derby destruction 
 while you race across the city, that would be more interesting that being undercover and do missions 
 like Need for Speed Mayhem of some sort.
  
  The replay value might depend but for my taste ever since NFS: Underground 1 have become low, one 
 play and im done for. Since the story tends to be vague at some moments and to do the same thing 
 with few cars.
  
  My final opinion is that the game should be rented instead of paying 50 bucks for it. The game 
 is so squeezed on the franchise that it fails to give me another round. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seansoutar
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 22, 2008 1:29 am PT
Review:  After the complete failure in my eyes of Carbon and Prostreet. Need for Speed returns for more 
 heart pounding and deep undercover experience. Some people say that Undercover is just Most Wanted 
 but with better graphics which it basically is. Although Undercover is extremely similar to Most 
 Wanted there are few cards up its sleeves. One of it is the car selection which is enormous. You 
 can go from a paltry Renault Megane to the truly awesome Bugatti Veyron. A few race types have 
 been taken out in Undercover like the drift and the canyon racing ( thank you!) and also a few 
 have been added highway battle and outrun. There are certainly more races in this NFS but they 
 are on the easy side and you will have this game done without doing all the races in about two 
 to three days. As a closing note I would like to say that this game isn't bad but it isn't that 
 good. I would rate it 8.5/10 but I am rating it to what EA said it would turn out like. At the 
 end of the day it is kind of a bit of a disappointment but it is leaps and bounds better than Prostreet 
 and Carbon.
  
  Go to my profile and read my review on Carbon.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sorvos
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 19, 2008 9:08 am PT
Review:  Let me start this review by saying that I'm not only a huge FPS fan, but aI also love good racing 
 simulators. So there is nothing weird if I love Need for Speed series. I mean really love them. 
 My first Need for Speed was Porsche Unleashed. Because of that and because I'm a BIG Porsche fan, 
 NFS Porsche Unleashed is my favorite. Even so, I also love Hot Pursuit 2, Underground 1 and 2, 
 Most Wanted and Carbon. All of them are great games, my second favorite being NFS Most Wanted. 
 Never tried Pro Street, but until Need for Speed Undercover came around, for me this series was 
 divine. Undercover is the worst NFS I ever played. It looses all the greatness other NFS games 
 had. It ruined my favorite racing simulator series.
  
  In this game you no longer play the role of a street racing outlaw, but a police officer gone undercover..... 
 in the world of street racing of course. The game starts with you driving a Nissan 370 Z and trying 
 to loose the cops on a highway. When you hit the first roadblock, you are rewarded with your first 
 cinematic. You'll be getting plenty of those throughout the game. So in the first cinematic, your 
 superior officer is talking to a hot Asian woman about you going undercover. After that, you are 
 reintroduced to the game and driving a Nissan 240 SX. Your job is to keep racing and build your 
 wheelman reputation. This reputation attracts the attention of other street racers, that will offer 
 you jobs and if you win races against them you'll get pink slip cars. Also, the more your wheelman 
 reputation grows, the more of the city, cars and tuning parts are unlocked. All that is important 
 in order to beat your opponents.
  
  This game has a different perspective than other NFS, because you will steadily increase you driver 
 skills and you can win races in two ways. Every time you start an event, no matter if it is a sprint, 
 circuit, cost to state and so on, you have a certain time to beat. If you finish the event over 
 that time, you'll simply win, get cash and reputation. If you finish the event under the time, 
 you'll dominate. By that you'll get more reputation and your driving skills will improve. Every 
 time you advance a wheelman level, you'll get additional driving skills. This skills are available 
 for every car you drive. If you can dominate all the events, your skills will increase to the max.
 
  
  The cars of the game are well designed and have good handling in general. There are 4 tiers of 
 cars, in three categories: American, European and Japanese. These tiers reflect the cars performance: 
 4 being the lowest and 1 the highest. Unlike NFS Most Wanted, you can't get a Volkswagen Golf with 
 performance stats as high as a Bugatti Veyron, through upgrades. You will have to change your car 
 to match the other cars you opponents have. Which is good, because I doubt a Golf can reach 400 
 km/h without breaking up...
  So far so good, but for me it's obvious that the producers of this game don't know many things 
 about cars. Because there are some serious errors concerning the cars. For example: The Mclaren 
 SLR 722 is in tier 2 when it should be in tier 1 without a doubt. The Corvette Z06 is in tier 1, 
 while other cars like 911 GT 2 and Dodge Viper SRT-10 are more powerful and faster in the real 
 world and are included in tier 2. The Nissan GTR is also a tier 1 car, which is no correct, because 
 it is slower than a GT 2 for instance, which is a tier 2 car. And last but not least, why in God's 
 name are the NFS producers so imppresed by the Audi R8? Why are they including it tier 1 and make 
 it go faster than a Carrera GT and SLR, when the real R8 is slower on track and in a straight line 
 that a 911 Carrera S. The R8 has only 420 BHP, not 600+. What's so damn good about his car? The 
 looks don't make it a Batmobil. The producers need to check out some car sites before making a 
 game.
  
  Modifying cars is nowhere near as fun as NFS Carbon and Most Wanted or Undergorund 2. You have 
 fewer possibilities and most of the bodykits and rims look bad. Performance upgrades are cool and 
 seriously improve the stock car. You can also tune your engine, transmission, drivetrain, suspension 
 and so on in order to adapt your car to different situations. More horsepower for straight lines, 
 more grip for twisty roads... you get the idea.
  
  The graphics are ok, nothing to special but not bad either. The world looks good, but it's the 
 cars that really steal the show. They look very good and on high details they look almost lifelike. 
 The sounds are also pretty good, although the will repeat in similar cars. Music is great. You 
 no longer get stupid heavy metal tracks that sound awful and when you are in the main menu, tuning 
 cars, the tracks are very relaxing, clearing your head after tough races.
  
  And now lets talk about the bad and so damn annoying parts of the game. NFS Undercover has plenty 
 of bugs and annoying moments. On many occasions, this game will make you throw your computer out 
 of the window. How can a 2 meter wide Bugatti Veyron tip over in a corner??? How on Earth can that 
 happen. Also, I was doing 380 km/h on a highway and the police SUV caught up to me and passed me 
 like they were jet planes? What the hell is that about? Physics are really stupid. Your car will 
 sometimes hit invisible obstacles when in a corner, when it flips in the air it looks so NOT realistic 
 and other very frustrating things. Also, the highway battles will make you freak out, because even 
 if you have a Zonda or Carrera GT, in some races opponents with inferior cars will give you a hard 
 time. And lets not forget about the almighty Audi R8, which is like a rocket, when the real life 
 car is total crap compared to a Veyron or Mclaren F1 or Carrera GT or Zonda and so on.
  This game needs a patch soon because of all the technical issues. When you modify cars in quickrace, 
 the game will crash on the regular basis, making it even more frustrating.
  
  As a conclusion, this NFS is the worst I played. It does have some good parts, but in the end it 
 will make your brain go wild because it is so damn annoying and stupid. So thanks EA for ruining 
 the best racing simulator series!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: G3n3rat0r
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 17, 2008 11:30 am PT
Review:  OK so I laid my hands on this new "piece of art" from EA. The first thing noticed in this game 
 was that it lacks some fine intro, and I'm not talking about the movies which reminded me of some 
 good FPS and RPG games I used to play. Learning curve is about 30 minutes to get familliar with 
 menus, and options through the game. So I start playing, got to the finish first, grabbed my first 
 car. I made a choice and get myself a fine Cosworth, car I dreamt about when I was a youngster... 
 And there it goes and my dissappointment grows. It took me a while to understand the physics which 
 is not the NFS style nor the other games in this genre, it is some crossbreed of every racing game. 
 And I finished my first race, and the game says: press Tab. And I did. It took me directly to the 
 new race. Finished. And again. Movie, race, movie, race.... Story is actually good but there is 
 no good old-fashioned car tuning. Ok, there is a bunch of upgrades, colors available at the start, 
 rims and some visual upgrades. Customizing cars has never been richer but I found it a little boring. 
 And I remembered other titles from this serial and fun I used to have just tuning my car, changing 
 colors, vinyls, hoods, ride height, body kits... This was a little borring - put all the racing 
 stuff on your car, change color, add some vinyls and that's it. Don't know why as I still have 
 fun doing this in e. g. Carbon. Conclusion? I think I had to have this game since I have all other 
 titles of NFS serial (well, I missed no.1 and 2 somewhere) but I am generally not so excited about 
 this one (as I wasn't with ProStreet which has a karma but is all pure racing) . And I can't leave 
 unnoticed that guys from EA are loosing a touch. 
  I found it somewhat fun to race with a bunch of traffic, with cops on my tail but It's just not 
 it. Good graphics, fine sound and that's all.
  Underground, Underground 2 and Carbon stays at the top. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nipo
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 14, 2008 8:02 pm PT
Review:  Controls have some problems, graphics are great but I got a huge line at the end of the course (moving 
 away all the time)
  
  The other problem is that they brought this game right from console to PC, menus and everything 
 are just right for a console but not for a PC. Even the adjustments... Who would ask you to change 
 the brightness of your screen and adjust the colors when you can configure that in game, well at 
 least that you are playing on a TV!
  
  Other thing that I must think it's me is that controls seem funny and they tend to lean left, already 
 tried with 2 controllers and same thing.
  
  
  Well, overall the game is fun, has nice graphics and that new level and achievements added is nice, 
 your driver skills increase with time and you can also tune up the car, finally having a great 
 car doesn't make you a great driver. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ahmed_ismaiel
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 13, 2008 8:02 pm PT
Review:  graphics quality is so bad
  graphics quality is so bad
  graphics quality is so badgraphics quality is so badgraphics quality is so badgraphics quality 
 is so badgraphics quality is so badgraphics quality is so badgraphics quality is so badgraphics 
 quality is so badgraphics quality is so badgraphics quality is so badgraphics quality is so badgraphics 
 quality is so badgraphics quality is so badgraphics quality is so badgraphics quality is so badgraphics 
 quality is so badgraphics quality is so badgraphics quality is so badgraphics quality is so badgraphics 
 quality is so badgraphics quality is so badgraphics quality is so badgraphics quality is so badgraphics 
 quality is so badgraphics quality is so badgraphics quality is so badgraphics quality is so badgraphics 
 quality is so badgraphics quality is so badgraphics quality is so bad 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iman79
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 13, 2008 6:13 am PT
Review:  One of the best driving games is here in your pc. I dont know why some people rate this game below 
 8. What do they want from a driving game?. All fun are here take out, race, pursuit,..... with 
 the best cars. Handling is just right and game play is astounding. The only flaw that I can mention 
 is the some loading problem during the game. And also there could be a better story. Just buy this 
 game and have fun with driving lamburgini, bugati, benz, bmw,....
  The envinroment is beautiful and dynamic but I dont care about graphic. The good-graphic games 
 can be boring after several hour but good-gamplaye games is enjayable forever. Therefore dont complain 
 about the graphic. I think you also should not complaing about simualation. this game is for fun, 
 if you want to wreck the car totally go for GTR or somthing.
  
  Enjoy your tunned AUDI :D.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kiriyama12
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 12, 2008 11:52 pm PT
Review:  Is it just me or do we hate the ramming of the cars?!
  
  YES, we DO hate the ramming of the cars, I HATE IT SO MUCH I WOULD HAVE GIVEN THIS GAME A 10 if 
 they didn't f*&@!*& made it!! and YES! I'm relieving my stressing through writing this!
  
  As of this moment, I'm still playing this game from the RAM rose and g-mac part, the game is actually 
 good, with the optional car damage etc. besides we don't want to make it a pro street crap do we? 
 because it's NEED FOR SPEED emphasize on the SPEED not on the realism otherwise just get burnout 
 or gran tourismo.
  
  Anyway just as i said: "Could have been better." first the good parts:
  
  1. Quick availability 
 of the cars. - You can get a Mclaren F1 fast.
  
  2. Low System Requirements. - Well compared to the other games today.
  
  3. Optional Car Damage. 
 - As I've said emphasize on the SPEED, worry only about the road not your stupid durability crap.
 
  
  4. Maggie Q. - No need for explanation here.
  
  then the bad parts:
  
  1. Ridiculously cheating computers - One bump and their like wow! as if they have unlimited nitrous.
 
  
  2. THE RAMMING OF THE CARS - my personal favorite most hated thing in a game, if i wanted to destroy 
 a car i would watched a freakin' DERBY otherwise controlling to ram a wuss AI saying "i'm gonna 
 kick you're butt, while running away" and ramming a car at 200 mph.... not easy...
  
  Don't get me wrong I'm just agitated about it and I'm just frustrated out here, i probably sucked 
 at it that's why, if you like that then go ahead, otherwise don't even bother. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gauravfox
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 12, 2008 8:37 pm PT
Review:  Need For Speed: Undercover
  
  Need For Speed is back with yet another installment - Undercover, i gotta say... this Sequel features 
 some of the best cars with a spectacular setting, the city seems to have a lot of stretches where 
 the gamer can push the pedal to the metal ! the environments and the narrow streets adds to the 
 adrenalin while on a cop chase. And Cops - we missed these guys in Carbon [ where were they..! ? 
 ] and Pro street ! They are back with some of the meanest machines and some really cool and nasty 
 moves ! the balance between 'Races' and 'Cop Chases' in the game is rightly done with an interesting 
 storyline. There are a lot of features to look out for, Firstly - the cars, then a very big city [ 
 which probably will remind u of GTA - San Andreas !] and finally - interesting cut-scenes when 
 the gamer gets busted. 
  
  On the 'Other' side, To get a Good performance out of the game, u need to have the latest 8800 
 or a 9300 GT Nvidia graphics card. but still, the looks have little effect... where u probably wont 
 say "Oh F@%K, the graphics are soo totally awesome dude !". And yeah, i forgot to mention..... sometime 
 in between the game... u feel to have detached from the story.... where u will only be racing and 
 racing........ and racing.....
  
  Over all, This game is worth playing.... i can also guarantee u that this is in competition with 
 Most Wanted ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: green_aliens
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 12, 2008 12:16 pm PT
Review:  I'm shocked ProStreet got a lower score that this one, this is easily the worst need for speed 
 game and racing game I have ever played, corners are pointless as is breaking and racing lines.
 
  
  Other vehicles are rare its like racing on a track and the graphics are nothing next to GRID. Safe 
 points in police chases are useless as the time runs down so quickly. The selection of cars seems 
 good but very repetitive much like other NFS games.
  
  I've been beat or nearly beat at the end of the race a stupid amount of times its annoying, I doesn't 
 seem to matter what you do at the start or for the first few laps as long as you keep it clean 
 at the very end.
  
  
  Why is it, that one of the biggest and best funded gaming houses are able to produce this garbage?
 
  The first nfs street racing games were quite good. First one had it's bugs but they were fixed 
 in patches. The second one was better but then it went all downhill. NFS Undercover how ever takes 
 the low point.
  
  The driving feel is... bad. Just plain bad. The car is very rigid and bounces and twitches all the 
 time. The physics seem to have a random () ; effect on them and AI cars seem to run on pre-defined 
 tracks. For example, I have been unable to pit-maneuver any of the opposing racers. My car how 
 ever will spin out of the smallest bump.
  It's also funny that there seems to be a preset on the max speed to a tuned car. For example, the 
 supra I currently have can only do 301kph on a straight road. Nos doesn't help, downhill doesn't 
 help... And it doesn't even redline.
  
  The graphics have terrible bugs. Cars appearing and disappearing, parts of cars disappearing, landscape 
 has bright edges, glitchy etc.. Plus the painting options just seem to make a little different 
 pastel shades on the car. A bit gayish touch...
  
  The upgrade system is... weird. As someone already said, there's really no point on upgrading the 
 car, since you can just buy a faster one.
  
  The world and storyline are just plain terrible. You don't have to drive anywhere. Just click Tab 
 (on pc) and you're in the next race. Open world is totally useless this way. The story line is... 
 well couple of the girls are quite hot but the acting is bad and the badass thugs would do better 
 in a comedy. Plus the second appearing "hottie" (don't remember her name) looks so retarded I can't 
 stop laughing when she tries to look tough.
  I don't understand why NFS doesn't take the concept of midnight club and make the whole racing 
 scene open. Point A to point B an you get to choose the route. Would also work in checkpoints. 
 If they insist on making circuits, they could be on actual race tracks in the city. But no... Huge 
 barriers to pre-define all the tracks.
  
  So in conclusion, don't waste your money on this. Nothing new in graphics, bad gameplay, boring 
 storyline, unused open world and frustrating races. EA fails. Again.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cheesehead456
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 8, 2008 6:39 am PT
Review:  Overall the game is fun to play. It is easy to get in and out of races with no problem. A few thing 
 a bad though... the graphics are less than desired... they look good but with everything cranked 
 up, the game still looks at least 2 years old. The "open world" feel takes some time to get use 
 too.... there really isn't any point to drive around when you just hit tab or go to the world map 
 to get to a race. The live action cut scenes are nice but over done... cheesy acting. On thing 
 that I don't understand is when you get busted, the police impound you car that you have... but 
 why would they do that if you are a cop...??? Speaking of cops... they are the dumbest ones I have 
 ever seen. They do stick to you for a bit but all you have to do is his something to knock over 
 something, and they stop... half the things only ever fall over into one lane but apparently that 
 is too much for the police.... and no spike strips??? All the cops do is hit you and set up road 
 blocks... not very good ones either. The game is fun... it did keep me playing for 3 hours straight 
 last night so at least something is good about it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CaptainWesser
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 6, 2008 6:28 pm PT
Review:  First lets se about the HDE The Heroic Driving Engine 
  180's 360's 540's and 720's: this is a easy one if your have a fast car just drive fast and spin 
 around and you will have it
  Burnout: this is a one I don't now good how its works but I get it much on my meter
  They is 
 to on the 360 backwards and forwards
  The j-bend you drive backwards and you make a spin of 180 degreades and you have it it's a cool 
 one
  Backwards and get away is a cool one just go backwards an spin your car in forwards and drive away 
 likes it noting good for avoid cops
  
  The Main menu is not so good then the early games actauly there's no main menu you are always driving 
 in the car you cannot choose cars for your own without paying it the 
  About the cars the styling is good you can style your car all on your hand 
  
  Going Undercover
 
  Busnis
  Task's Stolen Car is a good on but be carfoul of the cops they will get after you and want to kill 
 you 
  The driver is a hard thing you most go to the checkpoint and then to an other to win this and don't 
 let you get in the cops 
  And now the chaache after a boss drive the car in total lose of hem its really fun
  
  The Races
 
  Highway duel is my favour you most drive on lead and get 300 meters for him its sometimes hard 
 but it is fun
  Sprint its like all other games just driving and you most win likes the circuit
  The without 
 a trace race's is good but I don like them very much you most sometimes drive to hard
  The control post is the same as the most wanted tollhouse races
  
  driver's reputation is good 
 you need them to get more races you bigger it is you more undercover your go so be carfoul with 
 it 
  now the driving skills are very good you can get more money with it and better driving skills on 
 all things 
  the cops are really hard you cannot destroy them almost you need to have a strong car do hit them 
 good ore they will drive your of the route
  
  now lets talk about the city there are 4 parts in it first the 
  
  
  
  Palm Harbour 
 
  it's the start of the game you can fast Tuning your car better and buying a new car it's go to 
 fast I have a good car in the start the Nissan is not so very good but its good enuf for beginning 
 the game later I have buy a Chevrolet it's a nice car I like the American cars they are sweet and 
 the sound is very good of them I would be pleased I have later a American car but the game play 
 is a little small when I played the mal harbour out in 12 hours I already had 40% so that pretty 
 much on the most wanted I did 30 hours to get to 40% now this is about palm harbour
  
  
  Sunset Hills
  
  Sunset Hills comes after Pal Harbour If you have still a car of the Pal Harbour 
 then its not a problem because the races are still not so hard but you cannot dominate them now 
 so easy as before but you will get fast a garage open to buy new cars I bayed a Viper it's a sweet 
 car but a little bad handling it's the biggest part of the game but there will be to in other parts 
 races like in the Cold Coast Mountains and in the last city Port Crescent after a while you can 
 choose a car I choose the Porsche but I never drive's in the car I liked the viper more but later 
 in game around 80% you can buy the new cars the best of all in game I bayed the Pagani Zonda it's 
 a sweet car its really fast almost 400 at last of the game the game getting a little hard sometimes 
 but I played out so I'm fine: d
  
  
  Little bit about the game play
  The game play is good but bad handling and still no patch out and there are some bugs 
  My cars 
 are Audi TT, BMW M6, Chevrolet Camaro Concept, Chevrolet Camaro SS, Dodge Viper, Mitsubishi lancer 
 evolution, Pagani Zonda, Porsche 991 GT2
  Graphics are good but some things are bad they loading stop is good but sometimes is it distracting 
 in a bend 
  It tokens me around 50 hours to play it out the game I like the need for speed games but the most 
 wanted is still the best
  It get a 8 of me because still no patch after a mount and there are bugs in the game and handling 
 is sometimes really bad I like the story but there are some bad things 
  Thank you for reading my review 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: firecruz
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 6, 2008 6:27 pm PT
Review:  First of all the controls are still not much real but fantasized! Handling wise the best nfs game 
 in my opinion is NFS UG2! otherwise if i count drift for handling the codemaster's GRID rocks! 
 so handling is improved with respect to prostreet (the worst in series) but still not that good!
 
  
  visual effect are great except the trees and scenery being made with a flashy line as a fast upcoming 
 scene! but that is too much cartoonish! better stick with realistic graphics! still for graphics 
 game is cool! There are racing audio tracks but not good as in previous versions of nfs!
  
  NOS motion blur is little reduced!... many more cool cars including the new GTR and 370Z are good 
 additions! the gameplay when the cops are on, is great! and i must say the AI is a little more 
 improved than most wanted! specially even if its level 1 but if you are driving a lambo or any 
 exotic ... ull be chased down by similar class cars! the level give the AI toughness! that is more 
 cool i guess!
  
  Summarizing... worth playing but not a charm!
  Graphics: 9
  Gameplay: 9
  Handling:5
  Audio: 6
  Hardware demanding: 7
  Story:8
  
  with a little 
 more points to take average i must give a 7 pointer!
  Have fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: quarterdot
Rating: 3
Date: Dec 31, 2008 8:36 am PT
Review:  Why is it, that one of the biggest and best funded gaming houses are able to produce this garbage?
 
  The first nfs street racing games were quite good. First one had it's bugs but they were fixed 
 in patches. The second one was better but then it went all downhill. NFS Undercover how ever takes 
 the low point.
  
  The driving feel is... bad. Just plain bad. The car is very rigid and bounces and twitches all the 
 time. The physics seem to have a random () ; effect on them and AI cars seem to run on pre-defined 
 tracks. For example, I have been unable to pit-maneuver any of the opposing racers. My car how 
 ever will spin out of the smallest bump.
  It's also funny that there seems to be a preset on the max speed to a tuned car. For example, the 
 supra I currently have can only do 301kph on a straight road. Nos doesn't help, downhill doesn't 
 help... And it doesn't even redline.
  
  The graphics have terrible bugs. Cars appearing and disappearing, parts of cars disappearing, landscape 
 has bright edges, glitchy etc.. Plus the painting options just seem to make a little different 
 pastel shades on the car. A bit gayish touch...
  
  The upgrade system is... weird. As someone already said, there's really no point on upgrading the 
 car, since you can just buy a faster one.
  
  The world and storyline are just plain terrible. You don't have to drive anywhere. Just click Tab 
 (on pc) and you're in the next race. Open world is totally useless this way. The story line is... 
 well couple of the girls are quite hot but the acting is bad and the badass thugs would do better 
 in a comedy. Plus the second appearing "hottie" (don't remember her name) looks so retarded I can't 
 stop laughing when she tries to look tough.
  I don't understand why NFS doesn't take the concept of midnight club and make the whole racing 
 scene open. Point A to point B an you get to choose the route. Would also work in checkpoints. 
 If they insist on making circuits, they could be on actual race tracks in the city. But no... Huge 
 barriers to pre-define all the tracks.
  
  So in conclusion, don't waste your money on this. Nothing new in graphics, bad gameplay, boring 
 storyline, unused open world and frustrating races. EA fails. Again.
  
  Edit:
  Now that I've finished the game... jesus... 
  - Graphic bugs went insane
  - The car's handling 
 seemed to be quite random. At 400kph it sometimes turned perfectly to a 90 corner and sometimes 
 it just plowed straight to a wall. This happened many times and I have yet found no explanation.
 
  - The cars suck. They sound the same and go just as fast as any other. Oh and the Bugatti Veyron 
 can't reach 417kph as stock as it should. It only goes about 340kph.
  - Show me a police Porsche that can keep up to a car traveling 440kph. Or one that can actually 
 catch it first and then just kinda stick by it.
  
  As a side note, when you complete the story you kinda "win". After that it's just a matter of finishing 
 the rest of the challenges. It gets really boring and really old really quick. Once you get a tier 
 1 car with ultimate upgrades and tune it a little... you win every race easy. No challenge what 
 so ever. The police escape missions are a little bit harder but... well...
  
  Terrible... just terrible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadibm
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 6, 2008 3:49 pm PT
Review:  I've been hard on EA for making the horrible NFS Prostreet
  So I have to give them some credit on the new NFS Undercover
  
  As for the return to "Most 
 Wanted" thing, come on we practically begged them to, I mean this is what they do best
  
  As for the new release, will it didn't leave quit the impression I expected
  
  The game itself 
 is quite nice, you actually enjoy this one as much as you enjoyed any earlier release of the NFS 
 Series excluding the "ProStreet" 
  You have the cop chase, the nicely designed open world options where you can cruise along, the 
 nice music choices and the good sound effects
  It's actually a game that you can keep playing even after you complete the story, which is by the 
 way even though predictable but still nice to complete
  
  the good thing here is that they carry out the damage in a great way making the racing and the 
 cop chase more realistic, adding the Outrun and the Highway Battle modes brings out a new touch 
 that makes the game more interesting to play (Cops do look smarter here by the way) , and the theft 
 mission gives you the opportunity to enjoy driving stolen super sports car even when you are not 
 able to purchase them yet.
  
  And the video scene adds a great touch that complete an overall a good racing game, You even get 
 to take a photoshot for at any time you want in a 360 degree angle which is impressive
  
  However you can't help but notice the graphic itself could have been much better especially in 
 regards of the car geometry 
  You get the feeling that ProStreet did has the best graphics of the whale series
  
  Overall, 
 Nice Going EA, Keep up the good work
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pecone_Penev
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 5, 2008 8:33 am PT
Review:  I have been anticipating and playing almost every one of the NFS series. I have started with the 
 NFS Hot Persuit and now-Undercover. 
  Undercover is really (by my opinion) one of the best of the series. 
  The story it's ok and in 
 the way that is presented, it looks like I am playing into one of the Fast and Furious movies. 
 
  The driving is extremely unrealistic and that why is fun. You can hit other cars and pretty much 
 anything on your way and you will keep going. The car will look like it's braking , however it 
 would not affect the way it's running. 
  There are a lot of chase and driving on freeways with blazing fast speeds, running from cops and 
 ramming into opponents' vehicles so they can get cought by the mean cops.
  The game is fun. I really like playing it, the system requrement are little steep. The game will 
 slutter here and there but overall is running oookkkaaayy.
  The graphics are nice and the special effects are good, but I would preffer playing Grid than NFS 
 undercover.
  Overall the game is good and above average. Probably one of the best in NFS series, considering 
 the series were getting kind of dull lately.
  Nice game, alot of fun, probably won't play it again though... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NascB
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 5, 2008 6:08 am PT
Review:  This time no excuse goes unpunished. They finally broke the INSULT barrier. I give 10 reasons why 
 and pure 1 for the game.
  
  Having all the Need for speed titles and actually ALL THE RACING TITLES OUT THERE, My Verdickt 
 is based upon these 10 flashes. Just to keep it shorter.
  
  1. Game CAMERA is not fun it is DEBILITATING. The one that invented camera movements should go 
 out of the FIRM now!
  
  2. NFS had in each part just one fun part: Car Handling. Undercover does not sum up, but looses 
 grip traction or react wildly to conform all debilitating camera movements.
  
  3. Undercover can be put in top 5 worst Part Two's *mostwanted2, it is more done on ugly yellow 
 color-ite than how to make car edges decent with no shark teeth.
  
  4. Story Theme is ridiculous, everyone is video monitored, but still noone gets busted when they 
 show up on video with stolen vehicles... and nonsense after one another...
  
  5. NFS Underground was a racing game. NFS Undercover is a wasting game.
  You instantly waste 
 all that you can from time money, game city components, car parts, trash cans, to brains...
  
  6. Graphics are totally out of time, like 7 years late, cars are never the same in real world 
 in NFS world you buy only few millimeters of change from your money earned by racing, and in NFS 
 world only one wide body for car exists, very powreful stuph.
  
  7. Not worth the money. This is the first time I borrowed NFS. Carbon was bad graphics until you 
 tweak + lite cars so they fly like bees, etc, Pro Str. enters debilitating camera movements, containers, 
 docks. Compare them to its first competition at chequered Grid. Trick me once Trick me twice... 
 I will never buy NFS again.
  
  8. Totally out of league. Make a rationalized comparison to PURE, GRID, even FlatOUT, games are 
 stunning in every aspect, pros cons but stunning. What is stunning about Undercover. Grim Money 
 Rippers Long hand.
  
  9. Undercover has the Major flaw of them all at all. It lats you run the same race times and times 
 again without any notification if you do not focus on where you are especially when you are new 
 and not familiar with the neighbourhood, it always blinks a new race.
  
  10. EA IS SMILING behind our back since they are also smart enough for sure to be aware of all 
 flaws but money hunt for deadlines is more important.
  EA Please make Need for speed DECENT GAME and publish it once in two years, you'll get more money, 
 to put it blunt.
  
  Words of hope:
  
  The list of what would've be done from Undercover and Pro street in detail should be created and 
 even letting people to form an "oppinion questionnaire" on every aspect of franchise so far what 
 was good and what bad should be the cherry, then make repairs and REPUBLISH THE LAST FEW TITLES. 
 It will make all of us cry of happiness we would LOVE to LOVE - The NEED FOR SPEED. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ggoldsmith
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 19, 2008 2:25 pm PT
Review:  I really panned the game but after playing for some time I find it fun. My original complaint, 
 in a nutshell, was that it had low FPS and it was ugly and too much yellow. Well I turned down 
 the graphics a bit and now it's more playable on my AMD 2.8ghz Dual Dore with a 8800 GTS 320 in 
 SLI. Oh, it's still ugly andl choppy but I find the game interesting to look at because I like 
 modern city scapes; But this game is unattractive compared to all previous NFS games. The environment 
 all blends together in a yellow mush. Everywhere in the city is the same. The control is so arcady 
 that it makes NFS carbon feel realistic by comparison. But after having so much fun in the single 
 player, (I don't play multi much) , I realize that Undercover reminds of the Rush games that were 
 popular on the consoles about 10 years ago. The physics are designed to let you go real fast without 
 worrying about losing control - also like the old 25 cent arcade halls. So I've learned to like 
 the game on it's own terms. That's why I re-posted my review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: izhamizan
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 4, 2008 3:14 am PT
Review:  1st of all.. i think this game is total crap..
  1st u get the totally unstable fps.. and the graphics are like cheap plastic material..
  all 
 tho i like the long strech highways for the "Outrun" race but it's still so bad.. 
  for those planning to get this.. rent it 1st.. until a patch is release which i hope will come 
 out very soon..
  really dissapointed too with the ps2 version..
  the game is a total diferent game..
  the starting scequnce in the ps2 is not at all same with 
 the pc version..
  and as the pc too it has sum error...
  like one time this car was moving in between the divider or a road i mean he's into the metal divider 
 like it became one of it.. melted hot to the steel and moving freely..
  well hope ea next time will not release a bugged and not tested product to public..
  i dunno 
 but xbox 360 but as i have been told.. ps3 version is also having a fps problm...
  
  bout my review about the game..
  
  it tottally is a makeover from Most Wanted with just some 
 minor add-ons...
  it's not playable with such fps..
  
  tell me wat u guys think.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jason_da_psycho
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 3, 2008 5:36 am PT
Review:  Undercover was probably one of the most promising titles to be released this year after GTA IV, 
 MGS4 and Fallout 3. However, it hasn't lived up to our expectations and is generally a poorly made 
 car-racing game. As a matter of fact, even Shockwave's Redline Rumble series owns Undercover big 
 time.
  
  The game is just disappointing. Everything you were expecting isn't present. Yea, the car list 
 is pretty impressive but the gameplay and graphics is just terrible (considering its system requirements) .
 
  
  First off, the car handling is just terrible. EA's attempt on making the game more realistic just 
 failed miserably. The car, as well as the speebreaker, is difficult to handle. It's possible to 
 not use a brake through out the whole race, though. Speedbreaker easily spins your car out of control 
 during the races (if you've mastered the trick of tapping speedbreaker in MW, let me tell you something, 
 it won't work as expected here) .
  
  Second, the police chases are just pathetic. The chases weren't even tense, and despite having 
 911 GT2s all over you, it still seems like you're gonna evade the pursuit somehow. They do apply 
 some tactics but it doesn't really work. The R35s are also no where to be seen, considering how 
 easy it is to have GT2s start chasing you (around 5 mins in the pursuit in a tier 2 vehicle) . The 
 police cars just somehow got a little more heavier, making it impossible to hit their trunks and 
 watch them fly sky high. This feature is quite a surprise to me.
  
  The AI of the other racers is just terrible. You see, I'm just a casual gamer, and I can smoke 
 my oppnments easily (with the car at second place 10-12 secs behind me) . The game took no more 
 than 8 hours to beat and gets repetitve after an hour of gaming.
  
  The graphics are just terrible. You just can't have PS2-like graphics right now. It's a PC game 
 for Christ's sake. The light from the sun just messes your eyes up. The frame rate is also serious 
 issue. I'm running on E8500, GF 9800GTX, 2gb ram and it still lags sometime.
  
  You really won't go online unless you're going for the "Cops and Robbers" mode. It's quite fun 
 but not something you can really enjoy.
  
  In conclusion, the game just sucked hard and a 6.0 is actually a little too much for the game. 
 Don't buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spyder_pk
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 3, 2008 4:15 am PT
Review:  I honestly cannot understand all the criticism of this game.. There are bugs sure.. and the frame 
 rate slows down and speed up unexpectedly. Also the game pauses at certain moments during a race 
 to load some elements.. but again I play it on my laptop with a Sempron process so that is to be 
 expected.
  
  Also in gameplay, especially in cop chase races. There is a time limit, I can understand EA did 
 it for the reputation and wheelman level system that this game uses so nicely. But it makes it 
 more arcade-ish than realistic. Another thing I didn't like was that once you win a car on pinkslips 
 you cant sell it!? Really EA, what were you guys thinking of? Ahh.. and ofcourse I miss the GPS, 
 map is confusing without it and it really interrupts the movie like feel EA wanted to give with 
 this game.
  
  Now that we got the bad parts out of the way, lets get to the positives and there are a lot of 
 them. If you played this game for an hour or so then you won't like it.. neither did I.. but I 
 couldn't believe EA would make the same blunders twice.. so I stuck to it. And boy do I love it 
 now!!! After you get to the second level.. Wooohooo!! Its fun.. 
  
  If you stopped playing before that and wrote a review, you missed a lot and you did not justice 
 to EA who spent a lot of money and time making this and also to fellow NFS-UG to be, especially 
 if they read a review of someone who didnt even spend an hour on it and jumped to conclusions. 
 
  
  Coz after that real fun comes.. with very well designed maps and extremely exhilarating gameplay. 
 That is when the money starts flowing and you can choose from a lot of races and really take your 
 wheelman level up. You can then really go for it and do to your car (s) what you want.
  
  What EA tried to do with this game is commendable. They really learnt from the flop that was Prostreet 
 and tried to take the best things from throughout the series, NFSC upto Porsche Unleashed (best 
 NFS ever IMO) and tried to put them all in this game.
  
  So you have damage.. not realistic like NFSPU I must agree, cosmetic in some races and performance 
 altering in others. They took Highway battles and Outrun mode from NFSU2 and made it better. They 
 also took from that game the reputation point system, i. e. points for drift, draft, nearmiss, close 
 call and more. Canyon race are from NFSC I believe. The cars handle amazingly well and almost completely 
 like they do in real.
  
  The wheelman level is great as you become a better driver with experience, your control and timing 
 grows. And therefore you can control better, faster and hard to drive cars well. I miss drift and 
 drag modes. But EA wanted to look beyond that and I really dont mind it much. 
  
  EA should release a patch to get rid of the bugs and bring in a GPS system. That would make it 
 almost 9/10. Definitely a million timess better than Prostreet. EA got one lost NFS fan back! Congrats 
 ;)
  
  I would tell you to buy it. If you are still sceptical, try to rent it and see for yourself how 
 EA improved from last time. I'm not saying its as good as NFS Porsche U.. that was from another 
 world. But it is as good as NFSMW if not better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cuculand2008
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 2, 2008 11:48 pm PT
Review:  what up with this game?? they totally ruined it.
  
  playing the game i had the impression that i am going back in time, the graphics are poor, the 
 story is so lame that i couldnt even follow it.
  
  again NFS's roods are still large, i dont know where in the world u can take in the citty a curbe 
 with 160 km/h. pls guys be serious.
  
  the game is not even close to the other series, not even close to the nfs pro street engine... so 
 how i dont know i felt like that.
  
  the shadows are under the standards, the glowing i unberable, pls let it wear off omg i cant even 
 see the road.
  
  the city is so poor made that i tough i am playing a race game from 2000.
  to bad that the nfs 
 team is not following a storry. they are jumping from a subject to another. the guy that becomes 
 a cop after beeing an illegal race driver it would have been nice, but the breack up in the narative 
 line is not good at all for the fans
  
  overall absoltlty deseapointing, not worth the time.... anyway not even close to GRID
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: markdoll01
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 2, 2008 10:35 pm PT
Review:  Yes, EA really made a mess this time by releasing a buggy and almost unplayable edition of NFS. 
 I found a thread on the NFS community site that shows how to resolve the slow FPS problem and now 
 the game is actually quite nice (except that I can't drive in reverse) .
  
  First, for you guy's that bought the original and cracked the game to preserve the original CD 
 - apparently the first versions of the "fix" do slow the game. Stick with the original installation 
 files! 
  
  Second, this registry fix resolved my slow FPS and I now play the game with everything set to MAX 
 on my E6750 Dual Core with 4GB of RAM and a 9800GT 512 Graphics Card and everything is smooth:
 
  Step one: open regedit search for the following string and modify:
  HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\EA Games\Need for Speed Undercover\g_PerformanceLevel from "0" to "2"
 
  
  Third, there also seems to be a bug with Dual Core CPU's. To resolve this do the following:
  
 Start the game and once loaded press "ctrl" "alt" and "delete" to get to the task manager. 
  Go to processes and right click nfs. exe
  You have an option there something with the affinity 
 (WinXP)
  Deselect 1 of your cores from the cpu and press ok
  Right click again nfs. exe and again click the affinity and reselect all Cores.
  Press "alt" and 
 "Tab" to get back to the game and enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HiddenSanctum
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 2, 2008 8:29 pm PT
Review:  Recently I've gotten my hands on a copy on NFSU and I have to say it's much better than Pro Street! 
 With what I've played so far (which is a decent amount) I have to say it's an okay game, not the 
 greatest but back on track.
  
  [Graphics] 6/10: This games graphics aren't that great compared to the performance it compromises. 
 With a 1Gb ATI Radeon HD 3650 I get around 23 fps on highest settings, which is pretty bad. Also 
 added on that it's almost impossible to play a racing game with lag makes this game kind of demanding 
 on your computer without any major improvement in graphics. Other complaints towards the graphics 
 are the cars shine WAY too bright. All the cars seem like they are glowing.
  
  [Gameplay] 7/10: The cops are back, once again... The avaliable cars seem somewhat lacking this 
 time, but the cars that are avaliable are very high end. (Audi R8, New Ferraris, Some Concept cars... etc)
 
  There's nothing knew to the racing styles. Same old circuit, sprint, cop chases from most wanted. 
 Drift and draft have been taken out. The customization is extremely lacking compare the underground 
 and most wanted series.
  
  [Plotline] 6/10: From what I've played so far, the plotline seems decent. Its a new and refreshing 
 plot that has not been seen before in the NFS series. But nothing to exciting has happened so far, 
 so I can't really say its that great of a plotline. Your basically an undercover cop thats trying 
 to impress the street gangs.
  
  [Sound] 8/10: Sound is decent, the same as for any NFS or racing game. Its nothing new though.
 
  
  [Value] 6/10: I'd have to say, this is probably not one of those games that I will play over and 
 over again. So no real replay value there. I'd suggest people to wait for at least one price drop 
 then buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EvoDrift
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 2, 2008 11:28 am PT
Review:  Boring, idiotic, stupid that the stuff i hear about that game and yeah i gotta accept them.
  bugs, crashs, stupid control, slow, ugly.. yeah..
  no matter how you try i have no idea where 
 to start ok maybe lets start with the graphic..
  i played GRID and i got to say it got amazing graphic on my not so strong comp with normal FPS, 
 undercover look like crap, FPS is low.
  gameplay? do you like to get angrey? play that game yeah it will make you angrey with the stupid 
 cops and racers.. ok i bought a new car and tune it till the end and got into a race with some 
 idiots with porshe so in the start i rape thier asses but WTF after 1 min thier car become like 
 "SUPERMAN here i come" and just got me with a 10 sec split they own me to -2 min split.. and i 
 didnt made any mistakes.
  some of the stupid chases make me go super angrey when i cant even hit the cops.....
  the storyline? 
 HAHAHA dont make me laught about that crap.. who the idiot that made that **** stink so much wiht 
 the crappy actors that no one even have an idea what they talking about and what the storyline 
 is about... they took a room and made some photos there and yeah thats your storyline. what a stupid 
 mother **** **** 
::::::

::::::
UserName: btrex
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 1, 2008 5:14 pm PT
Review:  I knew is hould have listened to my instincts and just bought one for testing purposes but oh no 
 I TRUSTED EA games to deliver a solid racing sim. What did I actually get. A super slow mo choppy 
 and UNPLAYABLE MESS. 22 units so 22 games out here each cost 3000 you guys cost me 66000 of my 
 hard earned earnings. I'll be lucky if I dont close shop this month.
  
  Even then when you guys delivered that flop PROSTREET you nearly bankrupt me now here again you 
 guys advertise a lot show a hell of a lot but when it comes to the final product on my desktops 
 wohooooo choppy choppy puff puff cart race.
  
  And lo one more thing press alt tab go to the desktop press ctrl + alt + del scroll down the process 
 tree and what do i see PUNKBUSTER. Punkbuster maybe a powerfull online anti theft tool but we wifi 
 users given up playing online eversince CARBON.
  
  IF I ever, somehow, survive this month I'll sure as hell am not going to trust any racing products 
 you make again. I'm sticking with MOST WANTED, or better yet UNDERGROUND. Or maybe some other racing 
 sim without the EA trademark 
::::::

::::::
UserName: afwsl2003
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 1, 2008 4:29 am PT
Review:  The game was eagerly awaited by almost every hardcore fan of the NFS series... and most of them 
 wanted something similar to Need for Speed Most Wanted ... or better.... well after playing the 
 whole game all that i can say is that it has come close to what Most Wanted has achieved but has 
 missed the target by a fair distance... 
  
  I will have to mention here that the game is not at all boring but rather thrilling and interesting... 
 the highway battles and highway outrun is unique and is an awesome addition to the game... 
  
  The cops .... and the events which involves cop chases are not that different from Most Wanted.... 
 The cop levels are insignificant since i find almost all types of cop cars in every level... may 
 be the way they tackle and the aggressiveness may be different..... i have finished the career 
 mode and have finished 98% of the game up to now... so far i have not been busted by the cops... 
 may be I'll get caught in the next few events left (I doubt it... ha ha haa) ... ... 
  
  Well as a conclusion i would say that this installment of the NFS series in not very special ... 
 and fans wanting a thrilling ride will be slightly disappointed.... 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ckgfe
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 1, 2008 12:34 am PT
Review:  Here we are one year after the disappointing (my opinion) NFS Prostreet. Back to the used recipe 
 of Most Wanted . 
  
  A lot of game modes such as Sprint, Checkpoint, Circuit , Escape, Cop takeout, Cost to state , 
 Highway Battles (Reminds Drag Races without manual transmission) and more ... nothing innovating 
 here , things we've seen before with addition of some "job" missions that give you the opportunity 
 to use some cars under cop chases (the most cases) . You can access the events by pressing one button 
 or via gps map where you can chose a race and see its level and some statistics.
  
  The graphics are good enough. Maybe not really next gen but on high resolutions are noticeable. 
 On car graphics are good and customization options make them look better. The environments are 
 well designed with some issues on shadows and random building disappearing (not too common on me) 
 . There is a minor game lag on some points with low fps but on my system it doesn't bother me...
 
  
  The sounds are bad.. Sometimes the engine's sound occasional isn't loud enough and some songs don't 
 fit the whole theme. Also after loading a race the intro video is very loud and if you have the 
 speaker's volume high it maybe scare you !!!!
  
  The controls are good.. it's not a simulation game so don't expect serious car behavior. You don't 
 need to brake that much and the handbrake is useful only in early game with some cars and especially 
 in cop chases and outrun races (a game mode that you have to be in lead of one opponent for about 
 a minute) . The handling differs on cars and in certain cars you will find out that the controls 
 really easy or hard. 
  
  The difficulty is just right for beginners and easy for fans. The starting races are extremely 
 easy and you can achieve good times. A very good addition in the game is the level up ability. 
 You can level up your driver skills (nitrous, engine transmission etc. also money earning and part 
 discounts) and after some certain Xp (its called wheelman points) you increase your wheelman level 
 . The level up is not manual and is achieved basically if you make good times in races (the game 
 has a time goal in almost every race ,except jobs, and it's called "Domination" ) . This system 
 offers you a good game value and re playability.
  
  The amount of cars is good. They are separated in three main categories based geographically : 
 American , European and Japanese . There is also a separation in 4 tiers. You unlock the tiers 
 while progressing in the game with completing races, missions and certain events. Each car has 
 3 performance upgrade stages except the tier 1 cars (veyron , gtr , zonda etc) that have two.
 
  
  The story in the game is good for this kind of game , not deep and it has some plot twists . The 
 game is not short , it has a lot of races and a large map. One bad thing with the map is that you 
 do not need to free roam at all. The only thing that comes with free roaming is cop chases : ( 
 .
  
  If you are a fan of the series you will find it good and you maybe play it a second time . If you 
 are a fan of simulation games maybe you will pass it. If you haven't play a similar game and you 
 like cool cars, cop chases and races you will surely like it . It is definitely worth renting and 
 if you are a fan of series you should buy it.
  
  The system I played the game is : 
  Intel Quad Q6600 , ASUS Prenium Vista, 4GB DDR2 Ram, ATI 4870 1GB, X-Fi Xtreme Gamer with Windows 
 Vista 64bit.
  
  PS 1 : I cannot review the multiplayer of the game because I didn't try it.
  PS 2: Sorry for 
 my English it; s not my native language. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NYuuRaKuS
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 8, 2009 11:56 pm PT
Review:  Edit: got the game running smoothly.... so now I'll properly score this game
  Graphics: Environment textures aren't that nice, cars look good. I turn off the environment effects, 
 as the blur feature makes things ugly (IMO) and is also hard on my eyes. GRID and Gran Turismo 
 5P look better than this game. It actually isn't a very big step up from Pro Street (if it is at 
 all) . I don't use max settings (because this game is badly coded and requires high system spex) , 
 but the game still has a unique style that is eye pleasing. Damage modeling is alright, but still 
 only effects the body and the paint still stays shiny. 7/10
  
  Story: It's made up of random cutscenes thrown together. There is no depth and I have no idea why 
 some are even triggered. It feels like watching a movie, but taking bathroom breaks every 10 minutes, 
 so you get the gist of it, but not much more than that. 5/10
  
  Controls: Had problems with controllers, as some buttons could not be changed. Using the G25, this 
 game can be set up nicely. Oddly, there is no clutch however, and reverse is used by braking ~.~. 
 Cars handle purely arcade style, a significant improvement over prostreet. 9/10
  
  Sound: NFS has been great with sound in their recent games, and this one keeps the tradition. Cars 
 sound nice. Sounds not recycled from carbon/MW. I have no complaints here. 10/10
  
  Gameplay: Pretty much the same stuff as most wanted. A cool new race involves takedowns. Although 
 not as cool as Burnout, it was fun. AI is super stupid. Your piece of crap car can beat a super 
 car. AI often nudges your car and often the beginning of races are bumpfests (and you start in 
 the back) . "Dominating" a race is fairly easy, but sometimes the AI actually beats that time.... which 
 is really stupid. Poor framerates do not necessarily reflect nice visuals. Some parts of the game 
 stutter, often resulting in a crash at crucial moments. Police chases are usually easy, but helicopters 
 stick to you like glue. GPS makes driving outside of the game pointless (especially since events 
 are not located on your map.... but you just press a button to go to the closest event) . Overall, 
 this game was a disaster here. Enjoyable..... fairly..... but the worst gameplay out of all the NFS 
 that I've played. 4/10
  
  Overall, a bargain bin type of game. It may look fairly pretty, but it lacks the substance of its 
 predecessors. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ionutelu
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 29, 2008 7:36 am PT
Review:  After the first impression that this game is no good.. iv decided to give it a try.. i just like 
 driving games, that's why... it gets better after playing more then 5 hours.. you get at the point 
 where you want to see how the story ends.. It has some good parts but no progress over time .. since 
 the second underground the nfs series are less then interesting .. it's just that the graphics 
 are nice and videos in the game are enjoyable to watch sometimes.. i don't say it's a bad game, 
 it's not even boring but still does not comes near my expectations. Mediocre game that deserves 
 a seven. I will just wait for the next need for speed game to be better and hope something new 
 appears. 
  
  Take care! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hamzashah
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 29, 2008 7:24 am PT
Review:  It's Disappointing it isin't like what we were expecting
  but any ways doesn't bore you when playing but Grid is much better then this game
  It's Disappointing 
 it isin't like what we were expecting
  but any ways doesn't bore you when playing but Grid is much better then this gameIt's Disappointing 
 it isin't like what we were expecting
  but any ways doesn't bore you when playing but Grid is much better then this gameIt's Disappointing 
 it isin't like what we were expecting
  but any ways doesn't bore you when playing but Grid is much better then this gameIt's Disappointing 
 it isin't like what we were expecting
  but any ways doesn't bore you when playing but Grid is much better then this gameIt's Disappointing 
 it isin't like what we were expecting
  but any ways doesn't bore you when playing but Grid is much better then this gameIt's Disappointing 
 it isin't like what we were expecting
  but any ways doesn't bore you when playing but Grid is much better then this gameIt's Disappointing 
 it isin't like what we were expecting
  but any ways doesn't bore you when playing but Grid is much better then this gameIt's Disappointing 
 it isin't like what we were expecting
  but any ways doesn't bore you when playing but Grid is much better then this gameIt's Disappointing 
 it isin't like what we were expecting
  but any ways doesn't bore you when playing but Grid is much better then this gameIt's Disappointing 
 it isin't like what we were expecting
  but any ways doesn't bore you when playing but Grid is much better then this gameIt's Disappointing 
 it isin't like what we were expecting
  but any ways doesn't bore you when playing but Grid is much better then this gameIt's Disappointing 
 it isin't like what we were expecting
  but any ways doesn't bore you when playing but Grid is much better then this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: charleQ35
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 28, 2008 7:36 am PT
Review:  I've played the Need for Speed series since hot pursuit, which was fantastic for its time. Most 
 Wanted was, i think, the best installment because of the arcade style driving, the plenty of cars 
 with customization, and you can't forget the cops. To the point, Undercover really was a great 
 game, but they added nothing, it would have been nice to have some variation in the time of day, 
 as well as rain and harder cops. All the cops seem to do is get in the way...... A LOT. I remember 
 playing Most Wanted to death, Undercover didn't seem to have the same replay ability that Most 
 Wanted had, maybe because it's every thing I've seen with a makeover. 
  All in all, undercover, if you loved Most wanted, is a great game. Not to sure about multiplayer, 
 But i heard it has its ups and downs as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Black_Kill3r
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 27, 2008 12:14 pm PT
Review:  I am a hard core nfs fan from way back . I own almost all nfs games so i decided to buy the latest 
 one that just came out. I got the game and was very pleased to see that its like most wanted. I started 
 playing the game and got about 10% into it. I had a Nissan Silva from a pink slip and had a a lot 
 of money so i got a Nissan 370Z and tuned it up. In a police mission to disable 3 vehicles i got 
 stuck between two cars so my ride was impounded. I knew i would get an impound strike on my car 
 , but when i hit enter MY CAR DISAPPEARED from the garage and i had only the old one. I REALLY got 
 mad because i didn't know what happened. After 10 mins i started the game again and try to make 
 enough money to buy a new car BUT all my competitors had merks and lambos soo i couldn't win any 
 race. I got very very very very frustrated and angry an uninstalled the game..... So this game was 
 a complete disappointment for me , but it was fun for the few first races......
  
  
  
  Hope this doesn't happen to you , and hope you have fun!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: signum201
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 27, 2008 8:10 am PT
Review:  I must admit that I am a fan of the NFS series - I even managed to play Pro Street and finish it 
 even though it was the most disappointing sequel of them all - but this instance of the game is 
 a total crap! The optimization is so bad , I honestly don't know how to set the graphic options 
 in order to get decent frame rates , and not to mention that the story isn't that ground breaking 
 - it's rather boring after a while. The number of the type of the races is small , the chases with 
 the cops are so damn easy , the story gets predictable and other than the cool sunset effect the 
 game has little to offer. But the most unpleasant part is that this game is a total resources hog 
 !!! EA programmers WTF are you doing down there ? PC users need to play your games too!! I managed 
 to play Fallout 3 with 4x AA and 8xAF on a normal 17" CRT and I got a smooth game play ... but 
 this game requests probably a high end graphics processing !
  Slowly but certainly this series has drifted apart from what it had to offer in the past . Too 
 bad that the realeasses are going on and on every year and every year the final product is worse! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guriya
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 27, 2008 12:22 am PT
Review:  That A good game the last game was pro street and after last carbon these 2 games are so bad now 
 the game undercover likes most wanted wow i m so excite to play that game thanks for the game like 
 undercover i never see that game before after most wanted but the graphic is so cool and damn good 
 i have no words to speak. So please make a new game like most wanted or undercover everyday i got 
 entertainment to play undercover .That Cool Game the last game was pro street and after last carbon 
 these 2 games are so bad. But this game is damn GOOD. So how much i explain that i have good time 
 to play this game need for speed undercover that for Electronics Arts to make this game like need 
 for speed most wanted and need for speed undercover. Every time i told my friends that game is so 
 cool you all just play that game need for speed undercover i have no words to describe all of my 
 friends... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LiEpE
Rating: 1.5
Date: Nov 27, 2008 12:13 am PT
Review:  The graphics of High Stakes is even higher/ tighter! When the level is building up there's a white 
 texture around the things it's building.
  When u drive fast and look on the map when the next cornet is the game doesn't build the level 
 quick enough so u can c how wide the corner is.
  Plus u can get in at 180 mph let loose of the gas and just steer through it. That isn't arcade 
 it's fantasy, also if u break at high speed the car stands still in a sec.
  
  The gameplay: the normal race r way 2 easy, u can drive a t4 car with no upgrades and win from 
 a t1.
  The cop on the other hand r kinda tough, but u almost can't drive them away with a t1 fully tuned 
 and a low warrent lv (past the normal look-a-like crows vic's)
  
  All in all the worst nfs i played, and I play the other nfs all the time (even nowadays) this one 
 got me bored in a week. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: far-dee-jay
Rating: 3
Date: Nov 26, 2008 1:44 pm PT
Review:  Bah , yes BAH , this game is sick , after than i played every game of Need For Speed , this one 
 is really bad , a lil' better than pro street.
  The physics on the game isn't realistic like on NFS Underground and 2 or like even on Most Wanted.
 
  Even the first game called "The Need For Speed" was more realistic than this game and not only 
 because the physics , was just because the game was more realistic even than other games of the 
 sequel.
  Nothing more and nothing less , was an error to buy this game.
  Are anyway to get my money back or i just need to fell robbed because the game is really bad and 
 isn't what i waited for???.
  Belive me don't waste your money buying this game if you like realistic games whit realistic physics.
 
  I preffered the game "Grid Race Driver" than is almost realistic in comparation whit this Need 
 For Speed than is a waste of money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: altas2
Rating: 2
Date: Nov 26, 2008 5:00 am PT
Review:  As I said. Cannot believe that gamespot gave a 7.0!!! Let start with the graphic in game - it hurts 
 your eyes on maximum details! They put a bloom and blur not to make something realistic, but to 
 hide bad graphic instead. Lower graphic settings and you will see how poorly textures and object 
 is there. This is somehow nice... Yes, it will be nice in 2003., but we're in 2008. There is also 
 frame drop and game becomes a little bit slow, even on high end computers (?) . 
  About gameplay - no words. You drive fast, about 250 km/h and just steer at the curve and you will 
 pass it. Put the breaks at high speed, a slow down at curve you will face the fall... Physics is 
 a big 0. Of course this is an arcade game, but this is somehow annoying. Game is set in open world 
 - well, there is no gps lead to race location, you only get there if press tab or selecting race 
 from GPS map menu. No logic, at all.
  Other things, I will not write about it. It makes me sick and nervous of this peace of... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pr3acher
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 25, 2008 11:26 pm PT
Review:  The first thing that struck me is that some have said it is an easy game. No it's not! The first 
 RACES are easy, but as you progress you will find that the game is very hard to dominate. Of course, 
 it helps to start the same race 5 times because your opponent is wiping the floor with you, and 
 the fifth time he somehow crashes into traffic and you easily dominate him. 
  The game has thrills, pretty graphics and lights, and COPS. Not as fun as in carbon (you're not 
 taking them out quite as spectacularly) but still ok. 
  
  WHY would they remove the drag and drift races? Don't know... I played more than half of the game 
 and still no sign of those races, so they didn't implement them. Bad move, repetitive as they were, 
 it was still fun. 
  
  Conclusion: If you don't get bored easily or haven't played the last 5 NFS, buy it, it's loads 
 of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: imortal986201
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 25, 2008 10:37 pm PT
Review:  This game seems to have received a lot of bad reviews, but I thought it was relatively fun. 
  
  Performance: It runs great on my PC and I don't seem to have the graphical anomalies. Very 
 few crashes and no hiccups. I run the game on max settings and generally get ~30fps.
  My PC: AMD X2 6000+ @ 3.2GHz, MSI 790GX Platinum, Sapphire 4870 512MB Toxic Edition, 2x2GB DDR2 
 800
  
  Gameplay: The game itself is kinda repetitive, but the cinematics/story are cool. I don't particularly 
 care for the takedown missions, and all the races are generic circuits and sprints. My only big 
 problem with the game is that there is no real reason to use free-roam, you can just hit tab, or 
 use the map to fast travel to anywhere you need to go.
  
  All criticisms aside, I found this game to be rather enjoyable. It satisfied by Racing Game needs 
 for a time. I would suggest playing something like Grid or Test Drive Unlimited if this doesn't 
 do it for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_PC_Gamer
Rating: 3
Date: Nov 26, 2008 7:34 am PT
Review:  Intro.
  
  Let's get this out of the way first: Yes, it's worse than ProStreet. There are three types of people 
 who will want to play this game: NFS fans, driving fans, and people who are just looking to get 
 into the franchise. Of the above, I feel sorry for the poor souls (mostly the NFS fans) who get 
 this game ignoring the warnings from the community - this review is for you, so I'm not going to 
 go into detail about what the game is (arcade driving) or where it comes from. But let me say - 
 This game is poor. There is no going around it. The game was reviewed on my fast system (Q6600, 
 8800GTX, 4GB ram) , with all settings maxed out. 
  
  Being an Avid NFS Fan myself (having played through and finished all previous NFS games, especially 
 the classics of the pre-Underground era) I was looking forward to this game. Sure, EA may be pumping 
 out a new game every year, but hey at least it's passable. I was severely disappointed with last 
 year's ProStreet, and wasted no time giving it the title of the worst game in the franchise. Well, 
 much to my disappointment, along came Undercover and did the impossible - it was even worse. As 
 I tried to ignore the negative hype, I picked up a copy to see it for myself and... decided to 
 write this review so that you may not repeat my mistake. If you're more of a numbers person, skip 
 down to the end to see my scores for the game. And so we begin...
  
  
  Presentation
  
  Here is where things really go downhill. The graphics engine in Undercover is absolutely horrendous. 
 The technical issues are endless. Words really cannot describe the poor quality of the visuals 
 found here. And this is surprising, more than anything, because it actually looks almost as poor 
 as Underground does by today's (and even ProStreet's) standards. It seems alot of work went into.. 
 downgrading the graphics engine. The shadows look completely rough, the vehicles look barely ok 
 in closeup. The streets and cars have a very strange blight glare to them, even in the shadows 
 of the buildings. The cities themselves look ok. Granted, there is not any way to look up when 
 you are close by, so all you can do is see the high rises from the distance. Speaking of the draw 
 distance, it is extremely poor. You will see buildings, cars, and street signs appear as you turn 
 the corner as if the engine can't keep up with your driving speed. The sun is just strange, it 
 literally flies across the sky in some areas for no apparent reason. And as you approach the same 
 corners in your next lap, you will once again see it fly across the sky. You will also notice shadows 
 move as you drive, and their speed is dependent on yours. To conclude, this is the worst looking 
 NFS game in a long time, and it's one of the worst looking games of the year. The menus look ok, 
 there is no main menu to speak of. After loading the game, you are in the car right away and need 
 to hit ESC to get your garage and gameplay options. 
  
  The sound is passable, the engines sound ok and tires squeel. But they lack the quality of previous 
 NFS games, even the oft-mentioned Most Wanted had a better sound feel to each different car than 
 Undercover does. The soundtrack is entirely forgettable, and only acts as background noise. The 
 music during cutscenes is either non-existent, or filled with rap from the cars of the "hip crowed" 
 you are about to race. 
  
  The characters are poorly developed. You are not given a name, or any kind of a back story. Just 
 that you were chosen to go undercover and break up a drug trade operation by racing (how that works 
 is beyond me) . A few hours in you find out that your name is Zack (I think) by some guy yelling 
 at you via cellphone call. The much-anticipated live cutscenes fall very flat, you get about 10 
 seconds of loading, a 5 second cutscene with Maggie Q saying "Good job" or "Keep winning, they 
 will find you" and another loading time back into the streets. Its a waste, it's too short, and 
 it doesn't work (she would be better off telling you these things via in-game audio) . The acting 
 is sub-par, and it's hard to tell anyway because of the extremely short length of the scenes. The 
 scenes do look all Hollywood style, with quick cuts and never showing you the complete picture, 
 but it gets annoying more than anything to keep staring at Maggie's cheeks or lips. Half the cutscenes 
 you don't even know if you are being spoken to in person, or just being shown a story-progressing 
 third person show. As I mentioned, the story is sub-par and very poorly told so most of the twists 
 will just confuse you, rather than surprise you. The ending is the usual grand chase you expect 
 from NFS series.
  
  
  Design
  
  The game comes with an admirably lengthy campaign, but you've seen and done this all before in 
 previous NFS games. A variety of races to choose from at any point in time, such as circuit, sprint, 
 and the new highway and freestyle battles. In Highway chase, you and another opponent square off 
 down a very long highway trying to stay in the lead for 1 minute, or to break away from your opponent 
 by a certain distance. This is usually won by the clock, as your opponent actually does fairly 
 well not to hit traffic and to keep up with you. Unfortunately, the same cannot be said about the 
 Freestyle battle mode. Here, the concept is the same, except the leader of the race gets to choose 
 where to go. The AI will keep driving fairly straight forward when it's in the lead, however, the 
 moment you take the lead and take a few quick turns, the AI is bound to hit the wall and you are 
 left cruising at your leisure, watching the clock run down. It's a good mode in theory, but the 
 AI is too poorly scripted for it to work once the player takes the lead and can set the course 
 of the race. 
  
  The online mode features the new Cops and Robbers mode, where the robbers need to get away from 
 the cop players and deliver money to a location. The robbers have a good advantage as it's easier 
 to run than to chase, but you get to play both sides in a match. The lobby system works Ok, but 
 it's pretty dead and I doubt it will gain many players.
  
  In terms of the actual driving, EA seemed to have realized their mistake with the terrible sim 
 attempt in ProStreet, so they went back to more arcade driving. The cars handle Ok for the most 
 part, but there is still way too much sliding even if you set your suspension and tires to 100% 
 grip. This is partly because of the new engine code which allows you to do fancy 180-degree turns 
 at high speeds. It works a little to your advantage during cop chases, but not in real racing. 
 The physics are mostly unchanged from previous games, and objects will break/bend as you crash 
 through. A change that was adapted from ProStreet is the damage model, but do not be afraid, it's 
 purely visual and there is no performance changes to your car as you smash it into a pulp. A weird 
 design choice is to let your car get smashed up during races and cop chases, but as soon as you 
 evade the cops/win the race, your car is instantly repaired. 
  
  
  Gameplay
  
  Ah yes, we've come to the main part. Congrats if you are still reading, I am seriously impressed 
 and feel flattered that someone cares :) As mentioned above, the driving is ok, it's pretty much 
 a copy of what Most Wanted did. The controls are fairly sharp but the serious understeer can be 
 annoying on some vehicles. You start with the trademark getaway race in a good car, but after you 
 escape you are thrown back on the street in a clunker (which you don't even get to pick) and told 
 to drive. The garage menu is lacking any presentation, your car seems to be sitting in an empty 
 black room with little light. You are not told when new parts or cars unlock, you just have to 
 keep checking back to see if you have anything to buy or upgrade. 
  
  Speaking of cars... there is a nice variety of them, but for one reason or another they aren't sorted 
 according to Tier, so you end up scrolling through a list of locked cars just to see what you can 
 buy. The stats are WAY off on some vehicles, so I keep wondering what EA did to the usual NFS team 
 who had it right. They put a Lotus Elise into Tier 4, the lowest tier, and gave it the same top 
 speed stat as a Volkswagen GTI hatchback and the Toyota Supra... If you know nothing about cars 
 (if that's the case, why are you still reading?? Just don't play this game) then you should know 
 that Lotus should up there with the Ferraris and Porshes. Not cheap Japanese imports. And again, 
 all they had to do was copy Most Wanted, but they decided to shuffle the cars into tiers and nobody 
 double checked the results it seems. 
  
  The customization is back, with the trademark FreeSclupt mode which lets you completely customize 
 even after-market parts. However, the selection is less than ProStreet, and there is no impact 
 on your car's stats. Which may seem disappointing now that we've seen it in ProStreet, where certain 
 parts gave you realistic aerodynamic advantage and increased your stats in various ways. Even the 
 customization is frustrating, because for some reason you cannot hover 360 degrees around your 
 car with the camera.... you are limited to 200 degrees or so from the default view. To see the 
 back or the other side of your car, you need to go into a customization options, such as choosing 
 a spoiler, and the camera will finally swing back. But from there, you are now again limited to 
 200 degrees, this time from the rear of your vehicle...
  
  One new feature related to stats is the Driver Skills. Apparently, as you win races you get bonuses 
 in various areas, which then translate to whatever car you drive. It seems reduntant, as the stats 
 categories given to you are identical to what the cars have. Not to mention you can't even choose 
 what stats you increase after the win, they are assigned randomly as far as I can tell.
  
  The game is easy. I know this is coming from a veteran of the series, and I'm pretty good on the 
 sim side as well (GTR2, rFactor) , but it just feels wrong to lead by 10 seconds on the first lap. 
 If fans were complaining about difficulty, EA, why not just bring back the sliders from Underground 
 or something? I have literally won each race I attempted on my first try, and 95% of them I "dominated" 
 according to the game. It made me try and crash on purpose to give the AI a chance. Speaking of 
 AI, it's pretty straightforward, same as previous games. If you get in the way, they hit the brakes 
 and keep on your tail. If you try to push them over the road, you'll end up spinning out as your 
 opponents seem to be driving tanks. But even if you do spin out... expect to see yourself in the 
 #1 spot again in the same place by the next lap. 
  
  The usual transparent barriers that designate the tracks are gone, replace by actual yellow arrow 
 blocks. Sure, this works I guess... except wouldn't you think cops would notice that there are 
 some yellow bricks blocking major highways? And not to mention the civilian cars... it looked perfectly 
 normal for them to drive through the invisible barriers in previous games - it wasn't realistic, 
 but it's a game after all. Here, they are now driving through the solid yellow blocks and it looks 
 ridiculous. 
  
  
  Conclusion
  
  Undercover is a flop. It is a poor game. Poorly presented, poorly executed, and looks even worse. 
 The technology here should be barely out of alpha, not a finished product. The much-hyped live 
 action falls completely flat and fails to impress due to its shortness and lack of storytelling 
 ability. The game plays ok, which is not to say it's bad, but it's time to try something new. The 
 game also suffers from many technical and gameplay issues that seem to appear out of nowhere following 
 (now not-so-bad) ProStreet and previous games. This is not Most Wanted 1.5 folks. This game should 
 have been a poor prequel to Most Wanted. It is the worst in the series of post-Underground NFS, 
 and I wish everyone, hardcore NFS buffs included, would avoid this title.
  
  
  Presentation - 1 / 10
  Design - 5 / 10
  Gameplay - 3 / 10
  OVERALL - 3.2 / 10
  Final Verdict: 
 Do Not Buy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bahaa3000
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 25, 2008 3:16 pm PT
Review:  I have to get one thing out first , This is Need For Speed : Most Wanted but with better graphics
 
  It's obvious that EA game has listened to the fans and went back to their basics :- Cop chases 
 and fun driving !. All the realism of the previews game Pro Street is GONE . 
  
  In order to make you understand the game i will explain it thing by thing :-
  
  Presentation 
 :- One of the highlights of the game , great cut-scenes that make the game feel more alive , although 
 the acting is a bit cheesy it's still fun to watch
  
  Soundtrack :- EA never fails when it comes to sound tracks and nothing changed in here , the car 
 sounds are amazing and the music just pushes you to win the race 
  
  Graphics :- Very updated , the cars look beautiful and the road reflects the sun in a great way
 
  
  Gameplay:- The same old Most Wanted feeling of a game , it's not realistic but it makes you feel 
 like a great driver 
  
  Lifespan:- after you finish the story mood , you'll have the online to compete with you're friends
 
  
  The only bad thing about the game is that it's nothing new , it's the same feeling as Most Wanted 
 so if you're not a big fan of Need For Speed:- Most wanted . then you will find nothing interesting 
 in this game
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dasha8su
Rating: 3
Date: Nov 25, 2008 1:48 pm PT
Review:  I gave this game a generous 3 out of 10 its not even deserving of that in my opionion ...
  
  Total rubish by todays standards, i think EA just employed a team of monkeys to develop this 
 latest offering in the Need for Speed series while they went on holidays.
  
  Car handling is reminiscent of the first driving games that came out on atari and Amiga 15 years 
 ago ... totally unrealistic and boring.
  
  Graphics seem to be a Major downgrade from previous NFS games, and still no support for Widescreen 
 resolutions. also options and interface leave much to be desired.
  
  As for the storyline and acting, i coulden't give an accurate opinion on those as i could not stomach 
 more than 20 minutes of this discraceful driving game.
  
  Pro street although lacking in fundemental areas that made all the other NFS games great is awesome 
 compared to this wreck, atleast Pro street had some reliable car handling and physics, where racing 
 was actually a challenge and fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJDeni
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 25, 2008 9:40 am PT
Review:  The game is perfect. Been playin NFS from the very first one, and i think its been like 12 years 
 from that or something. This is a exciting and fun game. Thats what video games are for, pure FUN. 
 If you want reality, go and drive a real car. I hate when people write a bad comment about the 
 game, if u dont like it, then why the hell did u played it? .. If I find some game uniteresting, 
 i just skip it.. Simple as that.. But every game can be awsome, if u dedicate some time for it! 
 is one of the best driving titles in the history.. And u know when new NFS is comming out theres 
 always a big fuss about it.. I would recomend this game to everyne who likes driving games, it 
 will offer, excitment, thrill, and hours of enjoyment.. hell. they even got famous persons borowing 
 voices, how awsome is that!
  
  Thanx to guys from EA and for making another great title. Thanx for putting Renault cars back in 
 the game!
  Peace 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fandom888
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 25, 2008 4:43 am PT
Review:  Every year the Need for Speed series is expanded with a game, since 1997. While these games were 
 very interesting in the beginning, with the years became boring and shallow-substanced games, aiming 
 only to provide cool graphics and beautiful cars.
  
  In the career mode, you have the role of a police officer, who fakely turns out to be a street 
 racer, in order to catch another team of racers. But neither the plot is not that interesting, 
 nor the characters. For once more, EA failed to impress since Most Wanted.
  
  Taking pace in a fictional city (as usual) , the game offers many cars to choose from and upgrade, 
 many races against the streeet racers in many ways (circuit, time attack ant etc) and the very famous 
 cop races to be involved into. Beating these events will earn you money and driving skills, which 
 are in my opinion uneffective and useless.
  
  There is a new addition in online mode, where one team supposingly steals money from a bank and 
 the other one tries to catch them. Helpful it is in every occassion the GPS you can use to evade 
 from the cops or to get rid of other racers in no time.
  
  But where the game really suffers, is when the frame rate goes crazy, maybe because of bugs, and 
 the completely unstable but otherwise good visuals, which means that if your system is not supported 
 with the latest cards and drivers, you will suffer.
  
  If you have played Most Wanted before, you will find many similarities in this game. But the developers 
 still don't have a clear point of what should be done in the series to be lifted up once more. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chester101z
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 25, 2008 1:40 am PT
Review:  Taking first sight at the new need for speed undercover you say in your mind: "This is need for 
 speed most wanted with a little boost, graphic wise"But as you get deep in the game you realise: 
 this is need for speed undercover in storyline , NFS pro-street in graphics , NFS most wanted in 
 game-play and world design , and an exciting reality that in some places it resembled NFS 3 .
 
  So playing in NFS world got more fun and exciting , but that is only if you want to cruise around 
 doing nothing but watching the world design .
  Then comes the game-play , and WOW! When we thought the NFS team will improve it -Especially after 
 NFS pro-street sucked- you find that the game-play doesn't suck that much , but it isn't that genuine 
 either, the story line is kind of old and you're like it's Deja-vous, and the challenges (if that 
 what they're really called in NFS) are just not satisfying .
  The overall :NFS-UC is only NFS's desperate release of a game once had glory. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maniksdi
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 24, 2008 9:28 pm PT
Review:  I was really annoyed by the end of prostreet . . it was the same thing again n again . . the boss 
 races were horrible and the story was quite unbearable 
  
  undercover has recovered a lot . . . it's still not as good as the series ought to deliver, but 
 I am happy it did not do any worse
  
  GamePlay:
  Super fast . . you get the burnout feeling to it . . u can almost tell that they came off the same 
 engine . . . handling is very very arcade and fun . . traffic is less annoying as you can avoid 
 them easily . . . . over all . . gameplay is really fun . . gets addictive cause you can pull out 
 surprising stunts with the speed n handling
  
  Graphics:
  This is where the game went downhill from Prostreet . . yes . . prostreet graphics was way better 
 . . here in undercover, the cars are more shiny and looks lighter . . sky is always blurred . . 
 it's MW graphics with more oil n sharper edges
  
  Sound:
  sound is solid as any other NFS games of it's time . . game soundtrack is also good . . I like 
 some of the songs giving extra vibe to the fast races n mad turns . . I am satisfied with the sound 
 . . much better than prostreet . . not annoying at all
  
  Cop Chases:
  a bit annoying . . . cause they can hardly arrest you, but will stop you from going ahead . . they 
 are more like the traffic of MW which would make u stop deliberately . . but with handling so sharp, 
 you will manage to evade them easily . . so it's good
  
  Story:
  Havent played long enuff to say much there . . but I am glad the cut scenes are back . . but the 
 guy directing the acts is an amateur . . the acts look too acted sometimes . . a little wannabe 
 type
  
  PC Performance:
  has some frame rate issues . . drops frame now n then . . apart from that, runs great on my monster 
 pc
  
  so . . everything in short:
  THE GOODS:
  - nice cars
  - cut scenes
  - cars feels fast . . lives upto the name: need for SPEED
  - quick turns (arcade)
  - quick 
 career controls/menu
  - good music
  - gps is back
  - easy to learn
  - traffic is less annoying
  - outruns are fun
  
  THE BADS:
  - no replys, so cant save em 
 either
  - frame drops
  - maybe a little too arcade handling, but thats a good thing also
  - AI is dumb! . . . no challenge in career
  - cops are too heavy to move compared to traffic
 
  - choppers can see u even if u hide under bridges
  
  
  Good to Get?
  Hell Yeah . . if u like NFS . . . u cant go without giving it a try . . maybe it's not as good 
 as grid as a racing game . . but thats not that point . . it's just plain fun :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Van_manowar
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 24, 2008 1:22 pm PT
Review:  1. Graphics (0-10) - My score here is 8. The world detail could be better. But the car detail is 
 excellent
  
  2. Optimization/Performance (0-10) - I'll give here 6. The FPS is low, even on fast machines.
 
  
  3. Audio (0-10) - I'll give 10 of 10. Good music, good sound and realistic voice acting in the 
 pursuits. 
  
  4. Gameplay (0-10) - My score here is 9. You can automatically start a race by just clicking the 
 Tab button. You enter the garage and the gps map in the escape-menu. So you don't have to waste 
 time cruising.
  
  5. Story (0-10) - 9. Original story. You are a cop undercover. You have to earn the trust of the 
 bad guys, do dirty jobs for them, and in the end of the story to capture them. ;-)
  
  6. Artificial Intelligence (0-10) - I'll give here 10. The other racers are very good and skillful. 
 Some times they can screw you bad.
  
  7. Physics (0-10) - Maybe 7 here. The car handling is a little bit hard, and the crushes not very 
 realistic. However this is not a big prob. 
  
  8. Realism (0-10) - NFS is arcade racing. It's just not made to be realistic. If it was the main 
 idea in the game, it won't be so fun. 
  
  9. Total (1-10) - Nine of ten. It's worth playing.
  I think Undercover is more interesting and 
 better than ProStreet. It shows more the spirit of NFS-style. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rhomboid
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 18, 2008 10:51 am PT
Review:  Did I miss something here? I have a Nvidia 8800 GT and i'm getting very poor FPS with most setting 
 on medium... what gives. My system is running great with other games like Bioshock, HL2E2, NFSProS, 
 NFSCarbon, FALLOUT 3... etc. Most of these game are set to their highest setting. I Think with the 
 8800 GT, I should be able to get some Eye-candy out of the game without suffering through poor 
 FPS. Listen, I really like the NFS series, I've been playing them since NFS 1. I have fully accepted 
 most of the numerous flaws throughout the series, which makes me one of their biggest fans. But, 
 I can't accept a game that chocks my high-end graphics card. Also, please don't tell me I need 
 to upgrade my graphics card, so soon.
  
  Now, except for the frustrating keyboard driving control, I like the game. I like the look, the 
 style, the many races and the sound of the game.
  
  I'll add more as the days of game play go on.
  
  Cheers!
  
  12/18/2008
  OK, I've played 
 through the game, and I think it's not as long as NFSMW or NFSCarbon. I thought most of the races 
 were fun but easy. The ending of the game could have been a bit more like the end of NFSMW with 
 every cop chasing you around the city. As far as the very poor FPS with my 8800 GT, I just set 
 most of the settings to low or a mix of low/medium, to get a more fluid game play. I had to relent 
 and give up the eye-candy of the game in order to win races and evade the cops. Anyway, I support 
 the series and hope it just get better as the series goes on.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sputnjik
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 24, 2008 5:04 am PT
Review:  As I said, Undercover reminds you so much to Most wanted even the map that is huge is in parts 
 the same so you won't have problems finding your way around town. 
  It isn't all that bad, there are some new features to this game and that is highway battles, chases, 
 take-downs, car thefts that are plain fun and rather hard battling with opponents and oncoming 
 traffic at the same time. 
  The story is fun and it takes you a lot of time to get trough it (just as most wanted) and you 
 get to do fun things that help you upgrade your driving skills. 
  Also try to dominate as many races as you can to reap the benefits in forms of driving skills and 
 even discounts on car parts. 
  As for the cars you can get European, American or Japanese that are all well known to fans of the 
 franchise, and they never looked better. The wold effects are also great and visually this game 
 delivers. In previous games the soundtrack get's repetitive really fast but this time I enjoyed 
 it. Car damage doesn't get in the way of driving to much and it doesn't effects your cars overall 
 performance. 
  In summation I would like to see one of NFS games that have the best of all previous ones like 
 drifts, downhills day and night cycles triggered as you progress 'cause this is same all, same 
 all, but it's still fun to play so enjoy!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: littlealien
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 23, 2008 4:44 pm PT
Review:  A great mix of all the best driving action from GTA, Driver and Burnout. Great arcade feel to it, 
 plenty of speed and some very fun cop chases.
  Don't listen to the rest of the negative people, this game is simply old school fantastic gaming.
 
  I'm running a 6600 dual core, 3gb ram, XP and an 8800gtx and the game not only loads fast but 
 looks very nice - its not choppy at 1440x900 on max for me....
  
  Acting is quite poor in the cut scenes, buy hey, you didn't pay for a movie.
  
  As for the 
 length of races... I've had cop chases over 10mins and quite a few races last well into their 6th 
 min.
  
  The one thing I have found a little slow if gaining the $ required for new cars. It just means 
 you have to be quite careful with your money, especially if you like upgradiing them all the time 
 to max.
  
  Enjoy the game folks, its just fun driving arade action. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brscott
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 23, 2008 1:10 pm PT
Review:  Undercover most closely resembles NFS Most Wanted which is what attracted me to this variant of 
 NFS. However my problem with Undercover is that the loading is absolutely ridiculous despite the 
 fact that the graphics are not that impressive according to today's standards. Graphics just haven't 
 improved much over previous installments in the series. The motion blur and glare from the sun 
 really distorts the quality of the visuals and many objects/shadows display jagged edges, likely 
 because the anti-aliasing can only be set to a max of 6x. The detail of the scenery isn't all that 
 impressive either. Furthermore, it is often too easy to evade the cops and races are usually short 
 and also very easy. However I do like that each race has a domination goal which adds some challenge 
 to the race and grants various awards. Unfortunately EA only gets a mediocre review for this game 
 as they did with Red Alert 3 and Sim City Societies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JKL06
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 23, 2008 1:08 pm PT
Review:  So here we are again with another NFS game, after the last one people were very skeptical as to 
 whether this would be a decent game at all, and they were right to be worried. The second you start 
 playing this game you notice how much it tries to be like Most Wanted, but it fails quite miserably 
 at doing so. But that doesn't mean that its a terrible game itself. Although there are a few things 
 that seem like EA wants you to think its bad. First and most obvious is the absolutely dreadful 
 frame rate. Even on the lowest possible settings it is just horrible, you will even notice the 
 game pause itself to load as you are driving in a race. Next is the over simplified layout of the 
 game itself, you can't really go into any detail when you adjust things in the options menu, and 
 the controls aren't very dynamic either which is a shame because there could be more diversity 
 to the game. The graphics aren't anything spectacular on high settings to begin, this morning glow 
 they have added to the game diminishes the quality of the graphics. Well with that sad now on to 
 the good stuff. The cars themselves look quite good, and there is a large selection of Japanese, 
 American, and European cars to choose from so no complaining there. The sound of the game is quite 
 well done, as is the large open environment. Most people do not like the cinematics of the game 
 but I think it adds a certain coolness to it and would make the game significantly worse if it 
 was not there. The police are back (thank god) and are as brutal as ever, they will hunt you down 
 with helicopters, Porsches, and R-35's making for some exciting police chases. The multiplayer 
 is quite enjoyable as well as the race types in single player, like going 200 mph through traffic 
 on an interstate highway is something that cannot really be bad, or running local thugs into obstacles, 
 or stealing an exotic sports car from a showroom or random celebrity. So overall the game has loads 
 of potential and on paper is a brilliant idea, but EA fell short on actually making the game what 
 it was suppose to be. You would think they would have learned from Prostreet, but perhaps the equally 
 low sales of this title will put them back into reality. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tangerine123
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 23, 2008 10:09 am PT
Review:  I don't honestly think that this game deserves 7 from Gamespot. Maybe if you compare it to 4 years 
 old racing games, than maybe 7 is ok, if we rate just graphics, but considering such superb racing 
 games as Grid, this game don't deserves more than score of 4.
  
  I played Undercover for about 3 hours and that was enough. I uninstalled the game. Not much sense 
 of speed, too buggy, too unoptimised. Seems like bad beta version for me. Had some strange artifacts 
 on the screen all the time, even with the latest drivers, and my frame rate was not so good, but 
 the game visuals look worse than Pro Street and Carbon (these games I could play on maximum graphics) . 
 Yes, and my video card is not the top-of-the-line latest one, but still Radeon x1950xtx is pretty 
 powerful one, So it seems that game was hurried and everyone was concentrating on finishing the 
 game sooner, not making a good quality game. So I don't recommend this game. Play Grid, or some 
 of the other really good quality games out there. This one is not even good in the bargain bin.
 
  
  But anyway, it's just my opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Muldervayne
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 23, 2008 4:26 am PT
Review:  So I bought the new Need for Speed, cause "Hey, everyone has to play the new NFS...". I played 
 for several hours bumping into all the possible glitches: 
  
  -Buildings are rendering in front of the car
  -Certain curios light effects can be seen appearing 
 in the distance
  -The sun can be seen shining through the buildings (OMG!!!)
  -Cops are deactivated even if the "trap" is set 50 feet away from them
  
  After a certain amount 
 of hours spent on this game I noticed there was something very troubling with this game. I finally 
 had the idea to run the FRAPS software just to check out the gameplay framerate. And what do you 
 know?!?! 25 freaking frames per second on a computer with C2Duo at 3 Ghz, 2GB @1066 and an Nvidia 
 GTX260. I play farcry 2 with no problems at all. But with the new crappy NFS, well EA sure knows 
 how to mock people. 
  
  Don't buy this game unless someone is pointing a gun at you!! (I bet one of the EA members would 
 do that - pointing the gun :P ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cercel
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 23, 2008 3:41 am PT
Review:  It really is what I was expecting, huge try-city, smart cops, lot's of racing, lot's of tension 
 and surprise. Full of action... you can't take a break if you start playing it. Lot's of cars, 
 I mean really hot cars.
  No boring circuit circles like in pro street or other "go around the circle" games or other "no 
 open world" boring games. 
  
  Doing whatever you like is the future in games, so Undercover is one of the best in it's genre. 
 
  If you like GTA series, an open world game, you will like this one for sure.
  If you like NFS MW you will love this one, if you like cops chase action you will love this one. 
 
  If you like boring reality copys of some known racing circuits you will not like this one; go play 
 the other common racing games which are all the same, because Undercover is total action, total 
 "something else", total do "whatever I want", destroy whatever I want, take what route I want, 
 make what stunt I want and other non boring stuff. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: parreira94
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 22, 2008 5:25 pm PT
Review:  OMG I started to play yesterday and a few seconds later I could realease that is the same krap 
 ever.
  Since Most Wanted nothing was new, carbon only innovate in the drifting in the mountains and pro 
 street was not fun in that races out the street. So come Undercover back to the streets but it 
 is equal on everything with carbon and Most Wanted. So wheres the fun??
  Even the grafics are the same!
  The car list, at least, is big with japanease, european and american 
 cars. But the difficult of the game is too easy just like carbon.
  For me is another try to make a game like Most Wanted that fails in everything.
  There is a few 
 new types of race like the outrun where you have to stay in front of your opponent for some time 
 and another one i cant remenber the name.
  The game may be still a little fun, but you become tired in no time of it.
  
  ( Sorry bad English 
 ) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sunny_razv
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 22, 2008 2:50 pm PT
Review:  It doesn't appear too original at first glance, due to the similarities with most wanted or prostreet, but 
 once you play it for a longer period of time you see it is pretty good ,has some very nice details 
 especially on the car design, you can even see beneath the hood the motor as it is in reality, and 
 so on. Those that say it is bad, haven't really looked at it as they should. The controls are better 
 than in the last series, the car deformation is very realistic, some new original type of races, the 
 story is pretty good, the feeling is just right, the cops are more dynamic, the scenery is very nice 
 also and so on. The music could be a bad point, the team at EA just cannot repeat the great job that 
 they did with the first underground, where the music was very addictive. Could have been better but 
 it isn't that bad as just to be rated just 7. All in all ,it is a good game, it has some bugs, especially 
 where the video boards aren't very good, users can experience display problems, but with a good configuration 
 the game looks great, but you have to really look at it with a critic eye ,it deserves it, for those 
 that can't see how good it looks, and how many details it has, it is their fault. It has some problems, but 
 none really bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thingriz
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 22, 2008 2:40 pm PT
Review:  Everything about this game is bad. Not one redeeming minute of enjoyment. The worst in graphics, 
 AI and computer optimization. Complete console crap. Should have never even been released for PC. 
 Black Box couldn't write a post-it much less a computer game! The controls are a step back in history. 
 There is no FFB only the vibration that you would get on a 360 controller. Game looks like it is 
 2D, that's how bad the graphics are. No textures at all. The cars look like cartoons. The one trick 
 AI are back. All they can do is slam on their brakes or run into you. There's one mode where you 
 have to stay ahead of the opponents car. Problem is that once you pass them there is nothing to 
 tell you which way to go? The GPS is antiquated. You would think that after the last two turkey's 
 they would have tried harder. NOT! They get mad and make it even worse. And then to have sites 
 such as this Gamestink give it a seven and rate the game as good is an insult and maybe the reason 
 no one believes anything that's written here. If I could rate a 0 I would have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nd4spdr
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 22, 2008 1:30 pm PT
Review:  NFS has gone back to what made Most Wanted so great (and the Undergrounds) . Plus it has probably 
 the best car lineup since NFS Hot Pursuit 2. Graphics are good (though I wish you had more options 
 to turn stuff on/off like bloom.) Sound and music are great. Awesome arcade feel, which means unlike 
 real racing sims it's actually fun to drive and play instead of a stressful chore, just like what 
 NFS has always been, Also Online play is much easier than in past versions. A definite buy for 
 NFS fans.
  
  Pros: Cars, Sound, Graphics, Physics, Online play and friends list, good car damage. McLaren again!
 
  
  Cons: Limited graphics options (kind of all or nothing.) No real main menu, Autosculpting and painting 
 etc. are a pain because you can't use your mouse (at least I haven't found a way) , Still no Ferrari...
 
  
  P. S. What's with all the low reviews? This game is awesome! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 49724972
Rating: 2
Date: Nov 22, 2008 12:23 pm PT
Review:  NFS Porsche was great. Since then NFS rating has been taking a descending path. Every year the 
 game has improved its graphics and nothing else.
  "Worst game in the seriesis what we are used to say about the new NFS game every year.
  Well..... another 
 year has passed, nothing is changed.
  Let's just summaries this crappy game
  The +
  The cars are great looking.
  The -
  I don't really understand how come the races take place 
 at dawn and at dusk....... i mean come on.... who really races at 9 AM
  The AI is crap so to balance the game the computer always has better cars then you. So if you drive 
 a tire 3 car, the computer drives tire 2 and 1 cars.
  The control is plain and simple stupid : you can take 180 deg. turns at about 200 km/h. You can 
 forget about the brake button.
  The traffic AI is again turned against you. Traffic cars will just be kamikaze drivers.
  The 
 cop chasing isn't better. 
  WORST IN THE SERIES
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bone_x
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 22, 2008 11:19 am PT
Review:  Why did they have to launch another Need for Speed game? Personally, Carbon was good fun but the 
 best so far was Most Wanted. As pointed out by so many before Undercover tries to go back to the 
 basics of MW, but utterly fails in doing so!
  
  The good: 
  Well, it doesn't take forever to have a nice ride...
  
  Fun to outrun the cops, even on harder 
 levels, although sometimes they are a bit easy.
  
  The bad: 
  Nervous and twitchy controls. Moving the steering wheel slightly at 175 mph doesn't fling your 
 car of the road as the cars do in Undercover. This makes it almost impossible to maintain any greater 
 speed.
  
  Sometimes races are way too easy, but sometimes it's impossible to win. How can the AI catch up 
 in 10 sec when I'm 20 sec ahead? That doesn't really make any sense...
  
  And what is up with the AI always spinning one's car of the road, by just tapping the rear end 
 gently, as soon as one has passed them, but when I try to do the same they are steady as hell?
 
  
  
  As someone wrote before me, stop it EA! Just stop putting new games from an established series 
 on the market just to earn a couple more bucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lucados_20
Rating: 2.5
Date: Nov 22, 2008 10:17 am PT
Review:  Performance issues combined with poor handling and poor ported PC version:
  
  Dissapointing.... maibe my PC isn't strong enough... but... the details really suck... the gameplay... really 
 good... but... something is missing... whatever... This should be a copy of Need For Speed: Most Wanted.... and 
 I don't understand the story... the menu is confusing... On the map... you should tag where you want 
 to go... not click and you're there... so.... very dissapointing. This is a combination of Pro Street 
 and Most Wanted... the graphics of Pro Street... and gameplay of Most Wanted...
  
  It supposed to have the potential, but instead wasted it. The should work more on it... with the 
 DETAILS, GAMEPLAY and others...
  This game is a waste of potential, pathethic frame rate, its all good ideas done in the worst way.
 
  I didn't think it could get worse than Prostreet...
  And I think EA just proved they kill the NFS series! 
  Oh yeah... and if it is undercover garbage, 
 then undercover garbage it stays! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gangsterboss
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 22, 2008 9:39 am PT
Review:  With the latest edition of the NFS series they have returned to their origins after trying their 
 hand at a driving simulation game. Bringing back the classic free roam and police chases that made 
 the game such a hit in the first place, with some new race/challenge types in a new city with is 
 massive compared to some of the previous worlds. Unfortunately the majority of the police breakers 
 have just been taken straight from previous versions. but have also taken out some of the nice 
 features such as been able to knock a lorries load off while been a chased or racing.
  
  A new twist that has been added to the game is car thefts with gives you a chance to drive some 
 more sporty cars such as the Audi TT, which has been a car I have wanted since it came out. This 
 feature give you the ability to try a that car before you buy, admittedly it would be a nice feature 
 to be able to try any car before you buy and not just the ones from these missions. 
  
  I believe there has been a new game engine which has been used for this edition of NFS which has 
 allowed some new driving move to evade the police or just to perform for fun. while roaming the 
 streets the Tri-city Bay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: p232
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 22, 2008 8:40 am PT
Review:  From the last year's disepointment, Pro Street, which is probably the worst NFS ever created, It 
 shouldn't be hard to create something better this year. 
  
  The good: Fun, many cool cars, good graphics and big city.
  
  The bad: Way to many bugs, which 
 sometimes makes the game almost unplayable.
  
  After many hours with this game, I will have to say that the game isn't that bad that many may 
 say. The rewards of unlocking stunning new cars and better cust. makes you wan't to complete the 
 game. You don't have to play much before you are sitting in a nice car, and there are even more 
 to come. It's really nice just to take your car and drive along the landscape or in the city, I 
 really like the world they created, even though it isn't that detailed. But the game has big problems, 
 the bugs are simply distroying the game. The game is often lagging so bad even on my PC witch should 
 run this game, but this is knowed as a problem even on consoles. And there are also loading problems, 
 sometimes in races the screen becomes blue and the game actually have to load in the textures for 
 a little while. This often causes problems that you lose control of your car when the game suddenly 
 starts again. And this also makes my wonder if they have ever tested the game before they released 
 this, becouse it's just a shame.
  
  I hope that patches will fix the bugs in the near future, becouse it's pretty clear that this game 
 shouldn't be finished yet. The game is actually great enough without the bugs, but I can't give 
 any better score to an unfinished game like this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kobiba
Rating: 2
Date: Nov 22, 2008 6:35 am PT
Review:  I think that i say for all of us when i say: NO MORE NEED FOR SPEED!.
  This old series of games who had her time in the 90's and even gave us a few decent games in our 
 century.
  But in the last tow games where just lame!. Except the graphics this game deserve to be sent to 
 the trash and eliminate the games factory.
  The reason i am so extreme about it is because the lame game play, the lame cars and the poor levels.
 
  This game is (i truly hope so) going to be the last game of need for speed and this should be 
 a lesson for EA to not create any more games of this dieing trademark.
  
  more then i can say about this game is that it is a shame that EA just don't care about this game, 
 or so it felt like, i don't think i have nothing else to say about except that i am really disappointed 
 but not surprised.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jllife
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 22, 2008 6:28 am PT
Review:  Dear race fans,
  
  A short review as it suppose to be.
  
  I played for 3 hours and I was wondering, if I really were playing the new NFS (2009) from EA. Is 
 this the NFS we were waiting for? Especially after MW, Carbon and Pro street?!
  
  In my opinion, NO, NOT at all. Glitch after glitch and ... did I mention "glitches"?!! Uninstalled 
 after 3 hours. EA let me down once again!
  
  
  Short pos. and negs: 
  
  Pos: Great big open world, stunning visuals, many exotic cars, nice eye candy cinema, intense POLICE 
 pursuits and good engine sounds.
  
  Negs: No racing competition, way to easy, MANY glitches, no safe houses/tuning locations, no story 
 line at most points, no route to new challenges (compared to Carbon)
  
  NFS Undercover is not bad, don't get me wrong, but after at least 7 years EA (NFS) experience, 
 I expected more than this over hyped racer. I rather go back to "Carbon" then spending more time 
 on this NFS version. Probably a patch will make several differences, or not!!
  
  Enjoy if you want, ME personally: THIS WAS A TOTAL LET DOWN (money and experience) !!
  
  
  
 Respect to you all,
  
  J-Life
  
  btw. were is the main menu ???
  btw2. played on  update/1440x900 res. 
 high/medium settings. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: baboy_baka
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 22, 2008 4:54 am PT
Review:  I am hugely disappointed with this game. I am so disappointed... really. I've had high expectations 
 with this game and playing it for only a couple of hours I was already over it. The game was really 
 bad that I returned the game to EB Games just to get my money back. 
  
  My computer had all the recommended system settings for Undercover, and still had low frame rates. 
 The development of the game appeared so rushed that it doesn't have a proper main menu. Simple, 
 but not innovative in a way. The developers of Undercover had new ideas for the game physics, but 
 not all of the ideas are good. This one turned out to be bad. It didn't feel like driving a car 
 anymore, and the tricks that you can pull out from the car didn't feel like driving anymore.
  
  The only good thing I can point out in this game is the large world and the great cars, but 
 that's about it. Everything else from game play, to the menus and the storyline, all of that is 
 a downfall. EA didn't seem to take its time creating this game. It appears they were rushing this 
 game to make it in time for the release date. 
  
  I've pretty much lost the trust with EA and its NFS franchise. This game is a serious waste of 
 time. They should really start taking their time 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darthrocker
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 22, 2008 4:42 am PT
Review:  unlike other racing games, Most wanted, Carbon, and undercover deliver a different side to racing 
 that you will either like or dislike simple as that, if you like the sound of cop chases and different 
 racing styles all in a pretty package of lights and free-roamability, these games are for you, 
 but to get back to the review of THIS game here are my pro's and con's list:
  
  Pro's
  -new game styles (highway battle, cop challenges, etc.)
  -huge map (with long & different highway 
 styles)
  -easy control's 
  -lots of cars (they also threw in my old time NFS favs like the mclaren F1, and the Lamborghini 
 galardo, which just screams fast times ahead)
  -menu easy to navigate
  -the game starts out fairly easy where you can win practically every race and outrun the cops, 
 but as you continue to play you eventually get harder opponents which will try moves that you wouldn't 
 have expected from previous NFS games
  -i liked how the races go for no more than 5 minutes which means the races don't become to repetitive 
 and boring
  -lots of races, if you have finished the story mode there are usually heaps of unfinished or tried 
 races to enjoy
  -I REALLY liked how they had the melding between car damage and pure car totallage without the 
 totalling (hehehe) what i mean is they have a match where you don't get damage but you have to 
 destroy your opponents car, and matches where you have to deliver a car in time without destroying 
 it (the problem is they get cops chasing you which makes it more interesting)
  
  Con's
  -like any game there are bug's / glitches even call of duty had them, but it just unreasonable 
 to blame the game for lag (on the pc version) on the game when you can lower the graphical demand... 
 i have a highen PC and bumped the graphics to full and had no really bad lagging or glitching that 
 made this game unbearable. (sorry for lecturing)
  -story is very predictable, but there aren't alot of racing games that actually have a story-line 
 outside the race track arena (if you know what i mean)
  -they have take out a few of the car addons e. g. exhaust tips and spoilers, (they haven't taken 
 them out of the game they just have fewer selection)
  
  Personal Pro's and Con's
  -Other's have stated that the cops aren't as hard, as what the last 2 NFS games have been, at the 
 begining of the game i thought they are a little easy, but i grinned and barred it and eventually 
 had the chopper spotting me in my hiding spots and calling in reinforcements then setting up lots 
 of road blocks and spike strips, and just when i thought they didn't have any distictive varriences 
 from the different heats, they pull out the undercover porches and SUV's... 
  -with the graphics on full you can really appreciate the beautiful sights and sunsets
  -i don't 
 like the blur effect and the slow-mo camera when you go off a jump, and i haven't been able to 
 find a way to turn them off
  
  all in all a game is a game and needs to be appreciated as such nothing is perfect but there are 
 ways of making them bearable. i know this has been a long review but alot has had to be said about 
 this game, i really enjoyed it flaws and all.
  
  once again i hope this helps in your decision on this game...
  Transform and Roll Out (tehe) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: begoore
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 22, 2008 12:53 am PT
Review:  when i first heard n read all the reviews , i felt bad n thoughtWhat have u done EA ?!!!! U've 
 killed NFS!!!!!"
  
  Now that i've got my own copy.... i can see its not that bad. Carbon and Most wanted fans will 
 definitely like this one!!!!!! First of all there was this fuzz about the city not showing any 
 signs of habitat... no pedestrians..... thats damn right..... But there is no particular reason 
 why it should have, after all no Free roam NFS before ever had that stuff , then y expect it now 
 just because u are trying to compare it with MC: LA. Trust me its not important ........
  
  secondly, as everybody knows , the free roam world really doesnt want u to free roam ..... no safe 
 houses, carlots , Tuning shops , races......... all r accessed directly from the main menu......... 
 according to me its the only true let down in this installment of NFS......... they should have 
 the world more interactive n much more like a GTA game......... then this game would have truly 
 rocked.... anyway nothing is perfect.
  
  The customization is real good ...... only if it had more options. The vinyl system is smooth unlike 
 in previous NFS games. The sound is pretty well put up ...... Cars sound pretty real.... they even 
 handle good ,
  even though the city is not that challenging to drive , Roads could have been more narrower . The 
 story is also good even though not that deep.
  
  If u can put up with the faults of the game , its very gripping indeed..... after all as i said 
 before ' nothing is perfect '
  
  EA has done a great job with this one . Im loving it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SparkingNEO
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 22, 2008 12:02 am PT
Review:  I'm feel really stupid today because it bought PIECE OF SH*T instead of CoD: World at Wars
  
  Why i bought Undercover? Because I trusted in NFS Series but when i played this game, I won't 
 trusted in NFS anymore all EA says are lies they say they improved the storyline in this game but 
 I spend 1 hour of my life in this game in haven't get any storyline in this crappy game. all I know 
 is I'm playing as cops thats all. cutscenes is pointless they doesn't tell anything about the story.
 
  
  and I ran it with Geforce 8800GT it still lag, I tried to turn graphics to lowest but still lagging
 
  
  Gameplay is nothing more than drive drive and drive nothing special such as Boss Battle or something 
 like that. Every race is pointless you just drive through finishline and go to another race and 
 that's BORING!
  
  the game look unfinished, even the main menu that everygame MUST have is not existed
  
  I should 
 buy CoD not This Sh*t 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stevel024
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 21, 2008 11:49 pm PT
Review:  7.0, yeah right, IGN got this review down correctly, GameSpot probably game it a decent review 
 just because Undercover is advertising on its website. Christ, where do I even begin, the handling 
 of the cars is horrible, hand break isn't even real, graphics don't feel like their improved from 
 Most Wanted, hell, I though ProStreet was better! Crappy customization, the only good thing about 
 this game was that it didn't have the performance issue with ProStreet, you could max it out on 
 a mid range computer, I ran everything max at 1920 x1200 with a GO 7950GTX. And there are a lot 
 of cars. But thats it. This is seriously a disappointment. I played this game for a total of 1 
 hour then uninstalled because seriously, it was a big waste of time. There's absolutely no challenge 
 at all when you begin, and the 240sx they give you to start with handles so light that you will 
 sway everywhere once you hit the fifth gear. Overall, total let down, stay away from this game, 
 I've heard that online is the only reason to play this game, but seriously, just stay away from 
 this game. It's atrocious. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gutogreja
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 21, 2008 8:40 pm PT
Review:  o jogo ficou muito bom, em todos os aspectos, desde a questo grafica at a jogabilidade, os carros 
 ento, sem comentarios, muito doido. a EA sempre acerta, na minha opinio, no sei porque o pessoal 
 no gostou do pro street. cada um tem sua opinio. a minha  essa. acho que o pessoal no gosta 
 de ter que ficar arrumando o carro a cada corrida. hehe, na minha opinio isso ajudou muito a melhorar 
 meu modo de jogo, as corridas ficaram mais tcnicas. o NFSU tem uma jogabilidade um pouco diferente 
 , mas mesmo assim ele exige bastante dos jogadores. saber a hora certa de usar o freio ou o nitro 
 pode decidir a corrida.
  alm de que voc ainda tem que tomar cuidado com o trnsito que pode levar sua corrida ao fim. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: magusat999
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 21, 2008 7:22 pm PT
Review:  I am giving NFSUnder a high score because it deserves it. Most Wanted, Carbon and Pro Street were 
 such disappointments that Undercover is a welcome return to what made NFS so great. The review 
 at Gamespot is harsh and doesn't consider what bottomfeed Most Wanted was - stating that Undercover 
 is trying to be like it. I wish Most Wanted were more like Undercover.
  
  Unlike Most Wanted and Carbon, the A. I. is not cheating to the point of punishing and game breaking. 
 So far I have been able to increase my lead in all of my races, which was impossible in Most Wanted, 
 because of the rubberband A. I. Also the game is not a boring track-fest like Pro Street was. It's 
 everything NFS should have been after Underground 2. Don't listen to the BS reviewers or the people 
 who are crying about the graphics. The game is a solid, approachable ARCADE racer. And since I 
 don't care for "realism" in racers, it's as good as a new lollipop to a fat kid for me.
  
  The handling is supurb right from the start. You can get a very powerful car very near the beginning 
 (I picked up a Lotus Elise in like the 5th race) . It is enjoyable to play, unlike the frustration 
 of Most Wanted. The story - who cares? I don't. I don't like Maggie Q or any of the NFS girls anyway, 
 so I focus more on the gameplay than the cutscenes. In any case, the cutscenes are not enough to 
 warrant a full point or two deduction.
  
  The GPS system makes it easier to just jump to locations without driving - but it isn't set in 
 stone. If you want to drive there, you are free to go. It's just another option of how to play 
 the game - that's a good thing, I think.
  
  There's great fun to be had fighting the Police, and the way the game is set up, you feel like 
 starting something every time your not racing. You have you traditional (Most Wanted) style of 
 escaping them, but with the added option of simply putting some space between your car and the 
 cops.
  
  The replacement for cheating A. I. is Domination - which means you can get extra rewards for dominating 
 a challenge (beating the "record" or other challenge) . It's the antithesis of rubberband A. I. - 
 it pushes you for reward instead of punishment. You will race those races again so you can dominate 
 them - with rubberbore A. I. you just wanted to beat it and get it over with.
  
  All in all, this game is a final welcome addition to the series. Strap yourself in and hit the 
 gas hard - it hasn't been since NFSU2 that you could actually see your opponent disapearing in 
 your rear mirror. This time, believe the hype - Underground is above the rest.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Havocdk
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 29, 2008 5:39 pm PT
Review:  I've been following this franchise since the birth of the first NFS title way back in the mid 90's. 
 They've had a few good releases like Porche unleashed, Hot Pursuit, underground and I've spent 
 alot of time on a few of those titles, including the newest Pro Street. Pro street had alot of 
 flaws, but it was entertaining for a few days, atleast untill you got to the fast cars, where everything 
 went on easy mode, and you could allmost win with your eyes closed. Enough about that and lets 
 have a look on the new one;
  
  Need For Speed Undercover... 
  I've never in my entire life encountered a worse game than this. EA totally ruined the NFS franchise 
 with this... I don't even know what to call it. One thing for certain, it isn't a game.
  
  Lets start with the easy part, the good things about this game. The graphics and the sound engine. 
 The game looks stunning on a high end system, and you allmost fell like the exhaust gas flowing 
 throu your speakers when you Rev a car like the Chevelle SS in this NFS.
  
  That being said, I don't know where to start with the bad stuff. There is just so much of it, so 
 I'm just going to jump into it...
  
  Gameplay... Does EA even know the meaning of the word anymore? In this game you can pull 180, 360, 
 540 and even 720 with just a flick of a button. Pulling your handbrake in a needle corner with 
 200km/t, and then just let go of the keyboard and 95% of the time, you're still headed in the right 
 direction, doin 150km/t. Where is the challenge in that ? You have more or less no control over 
 the car yourself. If you're headed too fast into a corner, you're supposed to break so you dont 
 smash into the wall, in undercover, you release the gas and the car uses the breaks on its own, 
 then just press the speeder again, and you just took a 90Degree corner with 180km/t+ There is no 
 challenge in this game what so ever. This so called game has a arcade feel to it, thats worse than 
 Megaman or any other 2D game you can think of.
  
  Storyline... Well, the storyline in its prequels has been thin and who can blame them ? its a street 
 racing game. But in Undercover, they actually managed to make it worse, with even worse acting 
 and voice overs + they spiced it up with some awesome "I'm street cool" sugar, so the "bad guys" 
 in the game actually look even more retarded than a skinny little white boy in a Hummer.
  
  The cars... They look stunning, and sound even better and you can actually tune them ! So what 
 ? No matter what I did to my Chevelle, i couldn't get it over 249km/t with Street upgrades. Kinda 
 like the speed limiter they made in Pro Street. The "you have to buy another car before you can 
 experience the thrill of going faster than this" trip they have kinda sucks. I mean, a car with 
 500hp should be able to go faster than a more expensive car with 250 hp if they weigh the same 
 right ? Well, not in this game. If EA means the car should run 249km/t with these upgrades, no 
 matter what you do to tune/trim and setup, you wont go faster, unless you have a policecar up yours 
 goin downhill. If you're lucky, then you might hit 250! And what the bloody mary is wrong with 
 the cars performance in this game ??? I mean a Z06 outruns a Veyron easily in this game... I mean 
 wth ? A stock Z06 has round 550hp while a Veroyn has 1000hp... And as if that wasnt enough, a veyron 
 with all the ultimate upgrades still have a hard time hittin 400km/t. Stock its been measured to 
 409 ??? Oh and they kept the "you cant go faster than 403km/t" limit from ProStreet, so y even 
 bother taking a car like the Veyron in this so called game. 
  
  The police... Its easy to get away, even on heat level 5. And somehow they managed to plant a "here 
 I am cops, come get me" GPS in all of your cars. Guess this is making up for the level of difficulty, 
 which is truly very amazingly easy. Except for the chopper. Its spots you even if you're hiding 
 out in a parking garage, under a highway or where ever you might think of hiding. You see a chopper, 
 drive away as fast as you can and hope to god that your implantet "here I am" GPS fails, or you 
 start the pursuit all over again. 
  
  Conclusion:
  I could rant on about this game forever, but gonna round it up here so I don't waste anymore time 
 on this useless release. If you like good graphics and have aI have to win everytime to feel 
 good" attitude, this game is for you. If you like challenges, actual gameplay and want just a shred 
 of entertainment, skip this title. Its not worth it, in fact, its not even worth reviewing, I just 
 did this out of sheer boredom and wanted to do something that made me feel less of an idiot for 
 picking this game up. Allready gave this game away freely to my imaginary friend (the trash) and 
 never want to see another NFS title in my life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vega666
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 21, 2008 6:07 am PT
Review:  Well here we are again, and it's like ProStreet never happened. In many ways, that's a very very 
 good thing. Firstly, ye goode olde driving physics is back in all it's arcadish glory, and it is 
 indeed very good. The sense of speed through the bumper cam is amazing, even on the mid-level rides. 
 The graphics and sound in this iteration of NFS are both super-smooth, though I'd argue neither 
 is as good as in for example GRID, which is a shame considering the poor framerate, even on a modern 
 high-end rig. In a 3 minute race, you can expect to have the frame-rate drop to single digits several 
 times, which is pretty jarring, and willl defenently take you out of the experience.
  
  The gameplay itself is not without its fair share of annoyances and stupidity though. The one thing 
 I absolutely LOVED about ProStreet was the conspicous lack of coppers, but of course they HAD to 
 bring those frakkers back... *shakes fist at sky* If there's one thing that ruins this game, more 
 than dropping frame-rate, it's the coppers. Example one, a regular police cruiser manages to keep 
 up with a tuned Evo X... Whats that about? It's STUPID.
  Example two, Spike-strips. WHAT THE HELL? Is there anything that's more like cheating than that? 
 Imagine coming around a corner sideways, doing 280 km/h and there, 30 meters in front of you is 
 a spike strip. You have NO WAY in hell of avoiding it (because you'll hit it in less than two tenths 
 of a second) , and once you hit it, there's NO ESCAPE WHATSOEVER. That's beyond stupid.
  Example three, Police PORSHE's and GT-R's. There are too many stupid things about that to even 
 begin listing, but suffice to say that the guy who came up with that specific design-flaw will 
 be the first against the wall when the revolution comes.
  No, coppers has NO room in a racing game, and should be limited to games like GTA, because for 
 gear-heads, speed freaks and petrol-lovers coppers are ONLY a distraction from what the game is 
 really about: Driving really really fast. And in light of this, coppers can ONLY take away from 
 the game-experience, and not add to it...
  
  That said, driving really really fast in this game is a real hoot as long as you stay clear of 
 the swine. It seems that most corners in the game are designed specifically so that you don't have 
 to break before it, but only let the gass-pedal go for about a third of a second, or even simply 
 nudge the hand-break to get through the corner. And hand-break turns in this game is spine-tingling 
 fun when you get it just right, which brings me to the new "Heroic driving" moves. 360's, 540's 
 (haven't managed to pull a 720 yet) , J-Turns, burnouts, reverse driving; all these moves are fairly 
 simple to pull off, and they are all extremely satisfying, especially during a one on one race 
 or a take-down challenge.
  
  All in all I must say that this game is mostly just a re-iteration of Most Wanted, with nothing 
 much in the way of improvements or setbacks. If you like cop-chases, that's a good thing, and this 
 game is defenently for you. If you, like me, enjoy racing games for the fun of driving a car really 
 really fast, it's not so clear-cut, because the coppers take so much fun out of it, but it's still 
 a game worth sinking a few hours into 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danarch777
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 21, 2008 4:03 am PT
Review:  Don't expect much out of this one. As a Hardcore fan of the series, I'm really disappointed. The 
 game is playable, but I would not recommend buying it. The frame rate slows, and freezes. The steering 
 is way calibrated wrong. The movie sequences are choppy.
  One the good side the old drag race has been re-done into "highway battles". Drag racing with a 
 time limit instead of distance, on a clustered highway. The ai cars can be annoying though. All 
 of the standard race types are there, including some revamps of most wanted 2. I think if EA can 
 patch this one up it can be at least decent.
  
  I have'nt played online mode yet, but with all the bugs this thing has I dont think I really want 
 to. 
  
  I think what they were trying to pull off was a hybrid of underground 2 and most wanted 2. This 
 one really falls short of those "good o'l days". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mew905
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 21, 2008 1:47 am PT
Review:  It's essentially Most Wanted, with better graphics and you're in the middle of the good guy/bad 
 guy world.
  
  Cinematics are done well. Better than Most Wanted and there's actually a story line to keep you 
 going. However they throw in so many short cut-scenes it makes it seem pretty normal after a while.
 
  
  Graphics are out of this world. If there is any game out there with a better modeled car, I would 
 love to see it. However, as usual, to save framerates the city cars are modeled poorly, which is 
 forgivable as you're racing by 100k faster than they are. World is modeled okay, after all its 
 not a game you stop racing and say "hey! they actually put a squirrel in the tree! attention to 
 detail ftw!". Cars are modeled beautifully, and the shading done is really quite something, however 
 in the car-lot the car looks very plastic.
  
  Physics were broken hard. It's got the arcadey feel of Carbon, which is okay in some respects but 
 in the Elise I won in a pink slip, I let go of the gas and I can turn around on a manhole cover. 
 I also happened to hit a pursuit breaker and watch a car fly 40 feet into the air.
  
  As for the gameplay, long and tedious, fun, yes, but it almost feels as though 20% of the races 
 have nothing to do with the story at all. For example, the girl who guides you along tells you 
 to take down a kingpin, but you have to do a random race first to be able to do it.
  
  Performance of the game is decent. The game is actually playable at 20fps, but gets really annoying. 
 draw distance is good for the most part, but unless you have a raptor or a fast harddrive (faster 
 than a 160GB SATA) , you will find yourself traveling toward absolute oblivion many times. Sometimes 
 the game will stop just to let the city skyline load.
  
  In all honesty, a good game, not as good as Most Wanted, dont get me wrong. A little more fun than 
 ProStreet because there's a storyline to drive you, but it gets tedious at times. I just wish they 
 would bring back the customizability and tuning of Underground 2. Rather than having 5 complete 
 body kits, I like being able to mix-n-match around 40, then the tuning had actual values such as 
 gear ratios 2.41:1, instead of ACCELERATION TOP SPEED. However, like most wanted, its a game meant 
 to be quick to customize and get you racing.
  
  [rant] And to those of you saying ProStreet sucks, get a wheel, and love it. Keyboards suck on 
 PS I know and admit this, and you should NEVER have to buy a wheel specifically for a game but 
 dont knock prostreet because the controls on keyboard sucked, or it doesnt have free-roam (the 
 two biggest arguments out there) . I loved PS, Cabon blew, MW was good, U2 sucked except for customization, 
 U1 was bad all round, and NFS before that was essentially ProStreet, but with Ferrari's, no cusomization 
 and racing on the street (kind of like U1) . Those of you who started playing in the Underground 
 series and saying ProStreet should have stuck to its roots, NFS was originally a car sim game for 
 a magazine whose name I cant recall at the moment. [/rant] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Creative
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 21, 2008 5:52 am PT
Review:  Lets face it, NFS franchise was going downward since the original game. 
  
  Long story short, this game is waste of your money and time for several reasons.
  
  Locations 
 and tracks are really boring. I can't tell one turn from another, it's all concrete jungle with 
 same uninspired turns. 
  
  Cars, even though some flashy names are present in game (Veyron, Zonda etc) have no soul to them. 
 They sound totally lame, handling is non-existant. Forget about drifting, it's nearly impossible 
 to pull off. Cars seem to be weightless, they jump off the road and land like hovercrafts, no feeling 
 that you drive 3000Lbs car.
  
  Upgrades are extremely watered down, it's almost like it was put in game in last minute. You have 
 your rims, exhaust tips and rear wings. That's about it. As far as technical upgrades, engine has 
 3 levels and so are the rest of typical items. 
  
  Don't get me started with the soundtrack . . . you race listening to pop, as soon as you finish 
 it switches to dance and the next moment you're in the garage menu listening to rap. 
  
  
  Looks like EA will never learn, but it does not have to. NFS franchise sells well each year, 
 why try and make it better. Lets repack same old crap year after year . . . 
  
  P. S.
  
  EA tried to cover up the lack of innovation by inroducing "ramming" mode, clean driving rewards 
 and thing of that nature, but who cares about that if gameplay is extremely dull.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: python1564
Rating: 2.5
Date: Nov 20, 2008 8:37 pm PT
Review:  The graphics in this game are worse than Most Wanted or Carbon. I tested all three games on the 
 following system: 
  
  AMD Phenom X4 9950 2.6 Ghz
  4 GB DDR2 1066
  ATi Radeon 4870x2 2GB
  24" LG Screen 1920 x 1200
  
  The shadowing in Undercover is really 
 glitchy. At close distances the shadows created by cars do not connect with the cars and they become 
 strange shapes; at far distances they are not smooth at all and are very pixelated. The environment 
 is too bright, vehicles do not reflect light properly, and the sun is blinding. Carbon and Most 
 Wanted did not have any of these problems, and looked a lot more realistic.
  
  The handling of the cars is severely crippled compared to the other games. Taking corners or doing 
 360s require little to no use of the brakes.
  
  The ONLY good thing about this game is that the map is huge. I just wish the game-play was improved...
 
  
  
  R. I. P. Need for Speed 
::::::

::::::
UserName: diabolik_023
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 20, 2008 2:33 pm PT
Review:  I played a lot of the game ... i like doing every race , this way i have all the money i need and 
 i try ti get as much driving experience i can get.
  
  1) . Loading times during the race are GIGANTIC !!! -- almost every race my screen freezes just 
 that it can load the environment ( when the screen goes black & white , etc ...) -- i hold my words 
 for situations when this happens 3 or 4 times a race :|
  
  2) . Control of the car it's a little odd and often i go flying into walls just by a gentle tap 
 of my keyboard.
  
  3) . I like the sound more then PRO-street's , the graphics are not very convincing ( just a HOLE 
 lot like MOST-WANTED ) . Also i like the large number of audio tracks ( i don't get bored or annoyed 
 by the same songs ) .
  
  4) . Some races are too damn hard to get by ... 
  
  5) . I like the story line so far ... the stealing of a cop car is a good idea . In my opinion , 
 if the cut scenes were made more like most-wanted style it would en made a bigger effect.
  
  6) . I like the new moves that you can make with the car (back driving is great) .. now the 
 police chases are a lot more FUN !!!
  
  7) . I like the road design ... not so '' water '' like ... just perfect !!!
  
  8) . I hate the 
 NOS flame going into the road ... it is a really big mistake from such a big player in gaming industry 
 like E. A.
  
  9) . I like the new attitude of the A. I. opponents and also the police routine they perform when 
 you are running from them .... i like a challenging race/pursuit ... The down side in police escape 
 is : road block = too often they lay spikes for you.
  
  10) . I don't know if off line are made some statistics like in most-wanted (crushed cop cars , 
 road blocks evaded , time spent on the run , etc... ) ... i really liked those.
  
  
  Conclusion :
  
  Because of the technical issues and the shallow approach of the game (most-wanted 
 85% -- new stuff 15%) i rate this : RIP-OFF and a 4.0 score.
  
  
  
  *Note :
  
  i have : AMD Athlon 64 X2 4600+ ; 4 Gb RAM DDR2 800 Mhz ; 2x ATI HD 3650 crossfire ; 2x500Gb HDD 
 SATA2 raid mode 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Galileus
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2008 10:43 am PT
Review:  Try it it is a very good game that is made with a special story. It is simular game to the underground 
 and it also have a lot of cars and
  a very interesting level of dificulty. Further you get more dificulty are the missions. And there 
 are no dificulity settings. The game have also many diferent gametypes and that's why it maxes 
 it so interesting. It also have a great custimization system like other nfs. So you can make a 
 car of your dreams because there are almoust no limits. And there is the effect driving on the 
 city and be followd by cups like prostreet didn't have. But there are also some problems like the 
 car cannot be destroyed so easily, and that there are to racing cars. But besides when did you 
 see a racing game where you work as a undercover cup??. And where did you see so many diferent 
 cars from al of the world?? That's why i mean that the game is a step forward in nfs games! Definitly 
 Worth playing!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vasot
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 20, 2008 10:28 am PT
Review:  In short and to the point:
  
  -- GOOD --
  - Graphics are above average (nothing special of course)
  - Good variety of music
  ---------------------------------------------------------
 
  ---------------------------------------------------------
  -- BAD --
  - Shallow and stupid background story
  - Arcadish kind of gameplay
  - Nothing new
  - A. I 
 is kind of meh...
  - Low replay value
  ---------------------------------------------------------
  CONCLUSION
  A arcade title based 
 on car racing and with some added action.
  There is nothing new or special about it plus it feels lacking and becomes boring pretty quick.
 
  Just another shallow EA title with the NFS name on it for the High speed car fanatics and for 
 the small kids that love cars.
  ---------------------------------------------------------
  SCORES
  Graphics: 7.5
  Sound: 8.0
  Gameplay: 5.5
  Final Score: 6.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: codename-60091
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 20, 2008 9:49 am PT
Review:  dude, what year are we in????? Dude, look at GRID Racing concept!! That's the future of gaming!! 
 not this rubbish !! The car is not even damage realistic. The game is cluttering. Online Gameplay 
 isnt as smooth as Grid. Price is Damn High! Wasted my birthday money again. Crash for the sake 
 of crashing. Police chases can get freaking annoying overtime I really have no comments, big disappointment 
 for both my wallet and the company! why wont they listen? All of their focus groups participants 
 had been problematic! They just dont listen! Casual gaming also means smooth gameplay! they never 
 listen to the fans!! all those people that like this game are buzz marketers!
  
  dude, what year are we in????? Dude, look at GRID Racing concept!! That's the future of gaming!! 
 not this rubbish !! The car is not even damage realistic. The game is cluttering. Online Gameplay 
 isnt as smooth as Grid. Price is Damn High! Wasted my birthday money again. Crash for the sake 
 of crashing. Police chases can get freaking annoying overtime I really have no comments, big disappointment 
 for both my wallet and the company! why wont they listen? All of their focus groups participants 
 had been problematic! They just dont listen! Casual gaming also means smooth gameplay! they never 
 listen to the fans!! all those people that like this game are buzz marketers! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Geowil
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 20, 2008 9:36 am PT
Review:  I was expecting something like Most Wanted but even better. Instead I was handed a pile of crap.
 
  
  First off, I am not saying that this game sucks so much you shouldnt get it, it does bring some 
 new dynamics to the table (like outruns and battles which i think are an interesting feature) but 
 this game really is a step backwards from Most Wanted.
  
  All you do is drive around and take races that are handed to you, you dont get too choose. Also 
 the music track for this game SUCKS. there are almost no good rock songs, again something Most 
 Wanted excelled at, its track list was awesome.
  
  So far here are my cons about the game:
  
  Controls are too sensitive
  
  You need a crazy 
 graphics card to play the game on high settings (I am using a x1650 agp Pro card, it can play med 
 settings on Crysis but on this game i can barely play it on low settings)
  
  the camera sucks, it does not follow the car when you get hit into a tail spin or anything like 
 that, so you cant see what might be in front of you if you do a 180 or 270.
  
  police chases are a little to subdued for me in this game. I dont think there are heat level requirements, 
 but you dont have car changes with new heat levels either, just more cars.
  
  No safe houses, or shops/dealers like in MW.
  
  Menus lag horribly (probably from my gfx card)
 
  
  
  Pros so far:
  new race modes
  
  pink slip races now let you choose any car out of 7 if you win.
  
  You can get cash at any 
 point during the game, racing or just driving around.
  
  More cars
  
  
  Other notes of interest:
  
  the game goes into slow mo to drap the map LOL, ea really f'ed 
 this one up.
  
  I hope the next nfs game brings back the MW feel and can truely be called a real nfs game, this 
 one is just a rip offish kind of sequal.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mr_alobaloba
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 20, 2008 9:10 am PT
Review:  The Graphics: are incredibly poor even at high resolutions ( high end pc gamers will be frustrated) ; 
 the cars paintings looks like they have a vinyl layer; the roads have to much reflections.
  Cameras: the car perspectives are only three and in the 3rd person view mode, when we accelerate 
 the car gets to far and to small and sometimes gets harder to control. 
  Game-play: The races are in a closed environment, which means no traffic, and as consequence the 
 races are too easy to win. Most of the times youll get the sensation of driving a toy car. 
  Sound: not so bad as the rest. Thank God. This is one of the worst of the series.
  This was based 
 in single player mode. I was so horrified that i didnt even played the multiplayer.
  We cant even use the mouse! Dont bother to install this game; save your hard-drive space for 
 decent racing games.
  I just hope that Ea stops with Need for Speed series as they just keep going from bad to worst. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cyberfart1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 20, 2008 7:23 am PT
Review:  combonation of NFS MW AND NFS C features and gameplay with NFS PS cars and graphics. u cant beat 
 it. very simple interfaces and evrything just like most wanted and carbon. you dont drive to each 
 race location you just hit button and you automatically start the race. same for police chases 
 or you can ride around til you find cops. huge free roam area. customization is a plus with more 
 rims added and still no more hoods for muscle cars with raised blowers like from carbon which sucks. 
 cops are more aggressive by far. the use of videos like from most wanted is very cool. The cars 
 are now set in categories by the area of the globe they come from. autosculpt is still available 
 and they also finally allow you to put exhaust tips on your car with a stock body kit. the races 
 aren't too hard but don't screw up because it's hard to catch up the AI is very aggressive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kevlahnota
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 20, 2008 4:11 am PT
Review:  Poor optimization on the graphics engine, excessive stuttering and too sensitive of controls. Autosculpt 
 have a bug. i hope they will make a patch for it. Graphics are passable, random graphic glitches 
 occurs mainly on shadows and reflections. some cars looks like cartoon. storyline is fair. Music 
 gets boring sometimes. AI is decent. Free roam is bad for the lack of interaction of shops and challenges. 
 I like the idea of an open big city to explore but with interaction on shops, challenges and some 
 other things. I hope for a patch that will fix the stuttering, sensitivity, graphic glitches and 
 Autosculpt. Also if they can add more content on free roam mode, it will make this game quite good. 
 NFS Undercover wins over NFS Prostreet hands down but it's not the best versus other racing game. 
 But still NFS Undercover is decent and playable for those who have a good gaming system specs. 
 
  
  Gameplay - 7
  Graphics - 7
  Sound - 4
  Replay Value - 6
  Overall - 7
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: liltirtis
Rating: 3.5
Date: Nov 20, 2008 4:09 am PT
Review:  EA i'm not impress. Can't believe we waited 2 years for the next best nfs to be crap and so borin. 
 With all the added features, great cars and girl, i'll say that was a good job but the story is 
 boring and all that extract races added are complete bs. Maggie Q didn't nothing mush like i was 
 expecting. All she did was boss ppls around and christina milian is hot. I don't like the game 
 for me i'll say it is pro street just with added cops and open world driving and the bosses interracting 
 through videos. I hope they don't get much money that way they be serious next tie cause they are 
 enjoying too much , so they are forgetting how to male games we demand. they should makke a tally 
 or something to ask for ideas and then they might make something to put them back on track.
  
  Most wanted for me remains at the top of nfs series and trying to make a remake is a complete 
 disaster. I give them the credit for trying to keep us happy and bring back that old game (Most 
 Wanted) we love. Keep Trying EA you'll get there one day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PitchBlack999
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 21, 2008 9:38 am PT
Review:  Ahh!!! My review for the pc version...
  
  First of all the game does not suck in my opinion... NOT ONE BIT.. n yea i have thot about it.. its 
 AWESOME.. graphics.. umm a lil bit upgrade to MW but more like how Carbon wud look in daylight.. Handling 
 of cars is quite different... ul get used to it in 2 races.... lil bit reminds of Prostreet though.. but 
 doesnt suck like PS... by the way the ppl who uninstalled it after 1/2 hr play shudve waited for 
 the game to set cuz the first car u get sucks big time (Nissan 240 sx) ... just play a bit more n 
 u get a decent pinkslip car of ur choice (Of course from a given list) ... n later the better cars... N 
 OMFG cops... they are really crazy theyl hunt ur A-s-s Down.. The story is extremely awesome trust 
 me... u may not find any inclusion of story in the start but later ur on a roll... but no main menu 
 (u wont need it anyway) n no minimap u just have to press tab n the race closest to u will start.... n 
 the frame rate issues ppl keep talkin bout.. i dont get it... i dont have a single framerate prob... tht 
 too on my pc which is a 
  2.4 Ghz intel core 2 duo
  2 GB Ram
  512 MB Nvidia 8600 GT
  Now wud u belive if i say ppl with 8800's n 9600's have framerate issues....
  
  Pros - Makes 
 u realize NFS is back after Prostreet Su*cked, Decent graphic details, Good sound, Good car variety, 
 Hardcore cops...
  
  Cons - Bad Soundtrack (Boring) ... N THTS IT
  
  Gameplay - 8
  Graphics - 9
  Sound - 9
  Replay Value - 8
  Overall - 9
  I LOVE UNDERCOVER
  Thats all 
 i have to say.....
  
  PitchBlack 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Oscar_the_Spaniard
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 19, 2008 11:26 pm PT
Review:  NFS Undercrap! That should have been the title.
  
  - No mouse use --- CHECK
  - Recycled graphics from Most Wanted ---- CHECK
  - An abysmal rendering engine --- CHECK
  - 
 An AI that makes 3 y/o children laugh --- CHECK
  - A boring and completely flat story ---- CHECK
  - A dumb group of designers at EA, smoking pot 
 and blowing white -- CHECK
  - A physics system that makes you feel driving a toy car --- CHECK
  - The use of a bimbo/pornstar 
 wanna be, which is not even funny or
  attractive --CHECK
  - Bad acting/worst lines ever... blood tears when I hear them --- CHECK
  - Poor graphic performance 
 on consoles and the most updated PC's -- CHECK
  - A stupid map with no GPS. Get lost or press TAB --- CHECK
  - The most out of touch car upgrades 
 --- CHECK
  - Put whatever other garbage you have from former and succesful NFS titles
  -- CHECK.
  - A great marketing team, willing to put garbage on a box and sell it for
  million$ 
 --- CHECK
  - A group of managers and excecutives pushing to rush the game --- CHECK
  - A bunch of tired, underpaid and overworked developers, with deep need to
  have a VACATION ---- 
 CHECK
  
  We bring a blender, put all the ingredients together. Press BLEND and
  tataaaa:
  
  NEED FOR SPEED UNDERCRAP!
  
  Now seriously, this has been the worst NFS game 
 ever. I had faith in EA
  getting their act together on this one. Now my only suggestion about the
  NFS series would be: 
 "Please stop... don't do these series anymore" No
  seriously, stop trying, it's already gone... The damage is already
  done....
  
  At this point 
 fans of NFS series like me were expecting a joke. And what a
  joke we've had!
  
  EA is like leprosy. Everything it touches just degrades...
  In this year....
  First it was 
 Godfather...
  Then it was Mirror's Edge....
  Then the final frontier on the NFS series.
  
  Fast food for the masses. The Mc Donalds of the games industry.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BMWDan
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 19, 2008 9:44 pm PT
Review:  I have played every NFS there is to date. I was rather miffed by NFS PS, but I still sat my way 
 through Ryan Cooper's career. I missed cops and hated that name afterwards!
  
  So you can imagine when I heard about Undercover. I started the game and its the usual cheesy filmreels 
 with B-listers before the action. Three tier system of "level up" and moving to other parts of 
 the map is so cliche. Action starts slow and builds up and you find yourself bored more often than 
 not, next race next race race.
  
  It still has its ups. It does break up the racing overboard with new game modes that are fun and 
 fresh, but grow old somewhat quickly. The car chases are almost like watching a movie and the breakable 
 world is fun, but crashing into something not breakable ruins that fun. The open world has many 
 different backdrops which is a nice change. The cars lack lots of customization options that I 
 saw go missing from other series that were worth keeping.
  
  I miss having a mouse, pressing "9 0" and "+ -" all day with that horrible menu setup. Why can't 
 you use the mouse to select menu options, colors, etc...?
  
  Pros:
  The cop chases are still exciting
  New features like "Outrun" "Escape" and "Chase"
  Pulling 
 wheelman "Jobs" is always a challenge
  Graphics are great if you can set it on high
  Damage models are excellent
  New Cars are always a plus
  Music doesn't suck too hard
  The 
 "slow mo" feature still delivers
  Subdued viral marketing and XTREME songs and graphiX.
  No more Ryan Cooper!
  
  Cons:
  Aggravating menu setup (Weak PC port!)
  Weaker car customization 
 than before
  Handling is difficult, frustrating
  Grows monotonous as usual
  Three tier worlds and "level up" system is old and tired
  Detail lost in certain aspects (in-car 
 driver lacks physics)
  There's fun to be had, especially dodging cops and pulling jobs
  Cinema shorts aren't as funny as before (think NFS MW)
  
  Okay enough babble. Enjoy the games 
 new modes and awesome chases, but thats about it. Here's to next years release...
  
  NFS IV is still the best of the series, with MW right behind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rusty922
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 19, 2008 7:58 pm PT
Review:  I just got NFS Undercover yesterday here it goes: Bad, graphics, pro street had better ones, the 
 map radar on pc version looks like it was done in paint, anti alias doesnt work well, even with 
 6x still shadows and borders are very jaggy, you cant get rid of the blur its sometimes annoying, 
 sound is good, the new handling heroic engine screws the fun we had with most wanted and carbon 
 arcade like style driving, and you could still do the same maneuvers, Its a great crap really, 
 this concepts they manage in the game all that undercover cop, and **** could be taken to the edge 
 and make a good story, the game is just not innovative except for those new muscle cop cars, too 
 much ligth on the city, the thing I hate the most is the frame rate it is not constant makes you 
 feel like youre playing by pieces even that I have a pretty good rig, (core 2 duo, 8800gtx 4bg 
 ram etc you know..) Most wanted and carbon are the best need for speeds yet. I'm not a fanboy but 
 as every buyer we expect good products not some lame as* work, ea did good on last games but on 
 this one they sh*t on everthing, pc version is cheaper, 360 and ps3 users sorry for them cuz the 
 payed 30 buck more for the same crap. Instead of playing NFSundercover read a book, for real its 
 better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: olio_i
Rating: 1.5
Date: Nov 19, 2008 6:16 pm PT
Review:  This game is simply not worth it! Graphicly looks like it was made for PS2! It's not normal in 
 this high tech age to have games like this! It has some real issues! What's up with game testers 
 do they even see what they are testing/fixing? If you have two 8800GT's in SLI... none of the antialiasing 
 settings in-game do anything, and forcing it with the driver doesn't work at all either.
  That's... astonishing. I never thought EA could beat ProStreet's mediocrity but apparently they 
 have.
  it's no FUN!!!!
  like KingovGames said in the forum: "It's no fun. Why? The framerate can get poor a lot of the 
 time. Then the races are EASY. You will win and you will be like a minute ahead of them when you 
 get to the finish line. There are hardly any cars in this big city, you'll feel so lonely you'll 
 feel like you're in a ghost town. You'll be thinking "did they forget to put in more cars? Do I 
 have a beta version?". When you do see other cars they look terrible, like toys. The car handling 
 is terrible and the turns feel like they might as well not have been there they're so easy to make. 
 Those are the main pitfalls."
  
  
  Final verdict: Waste of time............ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: axlstyle
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 19, 2008 5:38 pm PT
Review:  - the story is rubbish/stupid/boring
  - the handling is absolutely awful, i played like 10 races, and i never used the brakes.
  - its 
 like the hole game was made by a bunch of retards who wanted to be game creators when they grow 
 up just because they played a lot of games.
  - the menu is done with the brain of a monkey.... ex: to change controls you go: options controls 
 config controls (and its the only freakin button there)
  - again on handling... the control of the car is just unbelievable... if you wanna go just an inch 
 left, you have to pray that you wont push the button for more than 0.000005 seconds so that the 
 car wont loose control, witch happens so very often and sometimes when you're not pushing any button. 
 i have tried to play with a wheel, but it gets more awkward.
  - i have an extreme gaming rig that can run any game with no freakin problem what-so-ever ... every 
 nfs game has something going wrong... with this one if i turn the anti aliasing on everything gets 
 screwed... ok maybe because its brand new and the don't know of the problem... NEEOOOO, it happens 
 with every nfs game only!!
  .. theres a lot to comment but i really think it's not even worth it. trust me, i have tried to 
 like this game, i even spent 2 hours playing it, and i though that it could not be worst that prostreet..... but 
 what do you know
  
  i can honestly say one of the worsts games i have ever played... and i have played a freakin lot 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rohan2015
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 19, 2008 3:36 pm PT
Review:  Ok lets look whats wrong with this :
  
  1) Serious Performance Issues ( Low FPS on a high spec machine)
  2) Graphics are almost like 
 most wanted but engine is way bad.
  3) Controls are like mad.
  4) Boring Story
  5) Nothng new
  6) Seems like a low budget ... over hyped game to earn some early bucks.
  
 
  Basically the programming is done in a bad manner. They should have given it some more time and 
 thought. Seems like a bunch of morons in EA created it without testing it and without thinking 
 of anything innovative.
  
  There is too much wrong init which i think is unfixable by patches at this moment. Plz dont buy 
 this. Give away the money to a charity instead or give ur self a nice feast. 
  
  I hope NFS doesnt end in a sad fashion like this. I hope that the next one is the best in the series. 
 EA has to see to it that they create a hardware favourable engine. FPS need to go up. Graphics 
 details should be there instead of ultra shiny-ness everywhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metgear2000
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 19, 2008 3:34 pm PT
Review:  Very well done, the music is great, the sound is great, graphics are ok. The cars look very nicely 
 detailed with detailed interiors. The storyline is pretty good. The two chicks are hot. The game 
 is a bit repetitive but it grows on you. Don't listen to these negative reviews. Some people are 
 just haters. EA has done a good job considering how little time they've spent working on it. I 
 dunno about buying it but you should def. rent it and give it a try. Its a good game, really.
 
  
  I think people expected a bit too much of it. EA has shown countless gameplay and CG movies of 
 it and everyone was so excited about this game coming out. And now that it is out people are hating 
 on it. But really it is the same game that we all have seen footage of.
  
  Don't listen to the haters. Go play this game right now. Also if you experience framerate issues 
 it is because your comp is too weak. You need at least 8800gts to play it on high settings. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thatmy
Rating: 3
Date: Nov 19, 2008 2:57 pm PT
Review:  WORTH THE WAIT 2 see what these DOGGIES are up 2! imao!
  
  I will review this game again when I have time for this game play. imao!
  The Reason I know all 
 about it because DOGs created a piece of JUNK Worthless NFS Prostreet which condemned by everyone 
 around the world so in order to cover their face and their ass, this NFS undercover was deliberately 
 created with the same standard as NFS Prostreet and Carbon Version. Agree? Need for Speed Most 
 Wanted is still the best yeah? imao! because this game created is totally FREE from Singapore DOGs 
 intervene. hahah....
  
  I know when I Wanna 2 know and by the way, dun try to kill innocent pple for their disasterous 
 work of DOG! HA! Free 2 me i OSO dun wan! lol Singapore!
  
  Usually NFS Underground, Underground 2 and Most Wanted are still the most popular among us around 
 the globe. When a game sucks up all, usually it mean DOGs have arrived and took over the work creation 
 of JUNK! haha
  
  Rubbish yet expensive 2 own. I heard someone says 2 lousy games in the row where got a company 
 gives such a lousy business earning, only dogs because they have the monies 2 survive, agree? Wong 
 KaN SENG's DOggies? HJAHAAHHAAH
  
  I want 2 know the truth, the truth will be there for me no matter u try to cover up cos cover up 
 is never enough to seal. imao. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: X-MASTER
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 19, 2008 12:56 pm PT
Review:  This title only proved how the hype is totally untrue !
  
  First, If you think this title delivers a brand new features you are dead wrong !
  I will give 
 you an example of the "new" modes/features...
  1. The open world was exist since NFS Underground 2 (excluding Prostreet)
  2. The jobs (Stealing 
 cars) are some mix of the magazine photography which was present in NFS Underground 2 and the generic 
 cop chases (originally in NFS Most Wanted)
  3. The Outrun are originally appeared in NFS Underground 2 (even though they changed it a little 
 bit)
  4. The Highway Battle (which is the highlight of this title) are some mix of the drag and outrun 
 races in NFS Underground 2 (again...)
  All the other types are from previous titles as well and the only REAL new mode is the "cops and 
 rubbers" which is online only and there are not enough online players...
  
  The graphics are mediocre (compared to games like 'Grid') and you'll probably face frame rate issues 
 since the game engine is really bad.
  
  The level of difficulty is completely unbalanced.
  It begins vey very easy in some points become 
 frustrating, very easy again and than... frustrating !
  Even players who are not NFS veterans will find the level of difficulty not structured well.
 
  
  Anyway, I have finished the game and it was still kind of fun, but I found it inferior compared 
 to previous titles in the series.
  
  I recommend you all to return to NFS Carbon.
  I know that some will say that NFS Most Wanted is the best NFS title, and that Carbon was bad, 
 but I think that Carbon is much better since they improved the car handling (which was awful in 
 Most Wanted) .
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: battledroid978
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 19, 2008 11:48 am PT
Review:  The cops are back, but everything else has degraded severely. The biggest problem with this game 
 is that EA has spent exactly zero hours optimizing the game for the PC. It is the most raw port 
 I've ever seen. They designed the game for the consoles first, and then they ported it to the PC.
 
  
  The frame rates are laughable and the draw distance is atrocious. There are times in the game when 
 there is nothing in front of your car, and then some lag and a millisecond later, all the scenery 
 and road finally appears. Other times, there is so much lagging that it turns into a slideshow. 
 Of course, it turns into a slideshow right before the police roadblock shows up with a spike strip. 
 This never happened before. Never have any games in the series had such problems. Not even the 
 first NFS game that came out (no, not Underground, the real one) had such issues.
  
  The physics are broken. The straw that broke the camel's back was a few minutes ago when a cop 
 car flew over my car about 75 feet into the air and disappeared. The cars all handle the same. 
 Same being defined as either front wheel drive, rear wheel drive, or all wheel drive. The cars 
 all feel the same as the others of the same drivetrain. To say drifting and powersliding are difficult 
 in this game would be a huge understatement. The cars are glued to road. If you like to take sharp 
 turns at 160 mph, this is the game for you. The sense of speed needs to be turned up. I've had 
 to check the speedometer several times while at 180 mph because I thought I was going 60 mph or 
 so.
  
  About halfway through the game, the rubber band effect rears its ugly head. Wow, is it ugly, it's 
 a lot uglier than I remember it. Take any car available to you at that time, place all the available 
 performance parts on it, tune the car, and take down as many opponents during the race as you can 
 and you still cannot win the race.
  
  I turned up the graphics. I thought I smelled my computer start burning, but I took the time to 
 admire the excellent car models, and how good the environment looked. Visuals are the only thing 
 this game has going for it, but the lack of optimization on EA's part prevents today's midrange 
 computers from playing even with everything on medium. You want to play everything maxed out with 
 the highest resolution? Yeah, good luck. You will need the fastest dual core processor on the market 
 along with three graphics cards. As for me, I kept it on mostly low setting at the 1280 x 1024 
 resolution. Even at such pitiful settings, the game still had all these issues. Bravo EA, keep 
 this up, and you'll be out of business in no time and begging for a bail out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raiedhasan
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 19, 2008 9:58 am PT
Review:  When I first started playing Pro-Street, I was totally horrified! Then came the news of Undercover. 
 NFS fans (like me) waited for something fresh (and actually fresh) but not as fresh as the freshness 
 that was been given to pro-street.
  
  Finally when I got hold of the game, I thought of getting back the true play of nfs. But alas!!! 
 It did not!!!
  
  Well I have to agree that its better than pro-street but its just not upto the mark. Yes, GRID 
 and nfs are of different types of racing game so am not comparing one with the other. But its like, 
 something is missing in undercover. You just roam around, press tab to race, short cinematic and 
 roam freely. Oh yes, saving you and your car's ass from the cops.
  
  But the main draw back is the technical issues. My gig comes with:
  Core 2 Duo E6600
  2gig 
 RAM @ 800
  NVIDIA 8800GT 256mb
  
  This baby ran crysis @ maxout (except the shadow and blur) and now am playing Tomb Raider Underworld 
 @ maxout (except few very high stuffs which are the foods for cards like 260) . But the funny fact 
 (or perhaps the weird fact) is that .... NFS UNDERCOVER performance is WORSE!!! Frame rates continuously 
 breaks even if I turn off shadows and world effects!!! Now I few people claim that they did not 
 have the problem and maybe WE are having problem for our specs. TO THEM: I dont think my requirement 
 is WEAK! Now dont tell me that NFS needs a better pc than crysis does!!! And even if it does, am 
 ready to throw away NFS and keep my gig :) So this MUST be some technical issues and nothing related 
 to SYSTEM REQUIREMENT!!! And maybe you people just got lucky :)
  
  I have no other problem other than this frame rate thing. Graphics is pretty good. But the sound 
 tracks are also not upto the mark. And I expected better car girls than the ones in it ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rthanujaya
Rating: 2
Date: Nov 19, 2008 9:54 am PT
Review:  Another poor addition to nfs prostreet. I think this game is nowhere near race driver GRID. (graphics 
 and gameplay) I could play GRID on 1440x900 with max details and full 4xAA with plenty of fps on 
 my asus 9600gt. but not this one. this is a complete waste on hardware resources. I don't think everyone 
 needs to buy a high end VGA to play such a garbage like this. and gameplay is little better than 
 prostreet. but not much.
  Usually I m a good fan of nfs series.. specially nfs most wanted and carbon and all time best Porshe 
 Unleashed. I think nfs series is getting worst each time.. If you haven't played GRID .I highly recommend 
 it over undercover garbage. I think undercover is a red hot nomination for this years worst game 
 of the year 2008. If u haven, t purchased this yet. save your money. you wont frustrate.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: badkojack
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 19, 2008 9:46 am PT
Review:  I like it, !!! The cars detail and the handling it`s good. The world detail could be a little better 
 but if you set the resolution to 1280X1024 and max detail everywhere it`s pretty cool! The customization 
 of cars is similar to Need for Speed: ProStreet and has been enhanced on the level of graphics 
 and detail. I`m just in the beginning of the game but it`s a very interesting story, just like 
 a movie! The game's story mode sets the player in the story as a police officer going undercover 
 into the criminal underground of Tri-City, a fictional city where the game is set. Players take 
 on dangerous jobs and compete in races in order to infiltrate and take down a ruthless international 
 crime smuggling syndicate of street racers and car thieves. The police vehicles is drivable by 
 the player namely in certain campaign missions. Good Job EA but next time more quality!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bomberrun
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 19, 2008 9:03 am PT
Review:  My feelings for this game:
  
  Why People WHY!! do you make the game like the other versions of the game series. there needs to 
 be more excitement. more fantasy in it. more ideas. This is so waste of time. playing a game that 
 is the same. please people if you make a other version of the game. then make it good and not so 
 bad, please!
  
  --------------
  i give a 8 for: Graphics (good job its so real)
  I give a 3 for: The same as the other versions
  I give a 6 for: Drive handling (you can drive 
 smoothlie, but if you make a giant turn your car don't turn upside-down. so that's a pity)
  
  That's is it, i hope next time you make better game EA
  
  Greetz from the bomberrun
  
 
  --------------------------------------------------------------
  ---------------------------------------------------------------
  -------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dietie-wietie
Rating: 3
Date: Nov 19, 2008 8:11 am PT
Review:  I've been playing this game for about 4 hours now (yeah I now, it's been hell) so I'll give you 
 a review about the most important aspects of the game (no exploits) , it's a bit long but it's worth 
 reading it.
  
  First of all, let me tell you that this game is really REALLY bad! I'm not sh*ting, Pro Street 
 had much better gameplay, sound and especially graphics. When Pro Street was released, everyone 
 was like: OK this is ground zero, nothing could get any worse then this. Well, I guess everyone 
 was wrong, because Undercover proved us that a very sh*tty game could get even more sh*tty...
 
  
  Let's begin with the start of the game.
  As always, the settings were all put on the ultra lowest (including the resolution, sigh) and the 
 game just starts without you doing anything. So yeah, I saw the intro movie in ultra low gfx, it 
 reminded me of a game released in 2001... And then all of the sudden the game start?! Cops are 
 chasing you like hell, you have no idea what's going on, you still have to adjust your settings 
 (and I needed to adjust my controller) , you just get dropped in the middle of something. So OK 
 after that you see one of those weird cut scenes which I find ridiculous, and after that you're 
 all of the sudden in your car in the middle of the street and that's it. What do I have to do, 
 what just happened, why did the cops follow me, why is my heating level now only 1,... The game 
 only started 2 minutes ago and you're already like, yeah f*ck this sh*t! So the introduction of 
 the game is disastrous, that sure is a good way to start a long-awaited game.
  
  Let's talk about the graphics. They are bad, and with bad I mean really bad. There doesn't seem 
 to be much difference between the gfx settings. They might as well call it: low, medium low, high 
 low. The graphics are worse then Most Wanted and that's been a while since that game has been released. 
 Pro Street had really decent graphics, so what happened?! Why not just take those textures and 
 stuff and put hem in Undercover! I mean what were they thinking...
  
  The sound is as bad as the graphics, it sucks.
  When you cause a collision, you sometimes don't 
 hear anything. And no there is nothing wrong with my drivers or soundcard, it's just the game. 
 The engine sometimes makes strange and scary noises. I even had this weird thing: I was driving 
 on the freeway and all of the sudden the sound of the engine changed in something like I was driving 
 in a tunnel... Great work on that I must say.
  
  Let's enlighten you a little about the gameplay. I have to admit that I love GRID, it's my favorite 
 racegame of all times. It just has everything; very good graphics, super realistic gameplay, ear 
 bleeding sound effects, and a very good replay value. Now that's what I call: a good game. When 
 I started playing NFSU I noticed that the controls are way different like those of GRID. The control 
 of the car is unrealistic, too stiff, you can make a 120 turn @ 140mph without using you're brakes 
 nor crashing, the reaction time is too slow,... Some fun that is.
  
  The last thing I'm going to review are the technical aspects of this game, the environment reaction 
 and AI. Guess what? They both suck. 
  When you drive @ 180mph against a wall or car, all what's damaged is you're hood and hardly some 
 scratches. If I drive @ 180mph against a wall my car will look like a matchbox... Games are constantly 
 evolving in realism, just look at GRID! It is really not acceptable that a game in this time still 
 has this approach of car damage and damage to the environment. 
  The AI is horrible, when you encounter cops while driving 160mph they do sh*t. I mean are they 
 blind? Sometimes when cops are chasing you and they get hit by traffic, they constantly spin around 
 like they're driving on ice and you escape flawless.
  
  
  I am extremely disappointed about this game, I was shocked when I played it and realized how weird 
 and bad it was. I'm also pissed because I wasted 40$ on this crap! The multiplayer even sucks harder 
 then the singleplayer!
  Normally when I review a game, I give positive and negative points but there's no point in doing 
 so because I can't even find a single positive one. Oh wait here's one: I'm glad they returned 
 to the 'illegal street racing with cops chasing you' plot, but then again what's the point? The 
 game sucks.
  
  This review is 80% objective , 20% subjective, so you can't possibly say this game is good. 3/10 
 is also an honest score. I don't know how the game plays on next gen console, maybe the PC version 
 is so bad because it's a port, I don't know and I don't really care either, it's hopeless in any 
 way.
  So a little advice to the people wanting to buy this game: you have to be kinda stupid, braindead, 
 really addicted to the NFS series or just very rich to buy this game. You could as well take 2 
 20 bills and burn them.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: livyx
Rating: 2
Date: Nov 19, 2008 8:10 am PT
Review:  i just bought the game.. first thougths the graphics.. I have been playing next gen game for the 
 past few weeks and I was expecting something next-gen-ish from this.. then when i saw it.. i mean... 
 WTH? Its just butt ugly.. period...
  
  gameplay... same old same old NFS .. its a racing game wat can i say? well it has a new "level-up" 
 system where your "driver" actually levels up, gets nifty skills and so on, its like the added 
 kick in your car.. i mean these levels actually affects top speed, accceleration blah blah.
  
  story... I mean WTH!! its a BIG WTH!! at first I was racing through events and i still think 
 it was still the introduction! I was wondering, where are the story driven tutorials? where are 
 the story driven "show this location" and whatnot, and where the hell is the feeling that your 
 actually an undercover cop!!!! Well maggie q appears some times after some races then gives you 
 your next race then just drops you off somewhere in the middle of the city!!. 
  
  WHERE THE HELL ARE THE FREE ROAM ELEMENTS??? i mean I was free roaming around the city and there 
 is this annoying button saying press tab to enter this event, HOW THE HELL CAN YOU FREE ROAM WITH 
 SOMETHING ASKING YOU TO RACE ALL THE !@#$ING TIME!!!.
  
  conclusion... EA has truly proves that they've killed the whole series, i thought undercover could 
 redeem the NFS series but no.. they just gave it another feet under! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -LC-
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 19, 2008 8:01 am PT
Review:  Hello, welcome to my review. As you might see, there's lots of reviews saying this game it total 
 trash. But, not that bad actually.
  
  Pros:
  
  Wide variety of customization, as usual
  Quite a lot of cars to choose from
  Nice graphics, 
 good balance between looks and performance
  
  Cons:
  
  Too acrade style, car sim fans might not like it
  A bit boring in the opening
  
  Okay, people 
 who tell you this game isn't good, just because they either don't like the handling, or "expect" 
 GRID car physics in an arcade racing game. GRID is a great game, but they aren't the same, GRID 
 is a "simulation racing game", this is an "acrade racing game."
  
  Story is simple, you play as an unnamed cop, then go undercover into the racing gangs to investigate 
 on a smuggling thing or something. You will get an old 180SX, but don't worry, you will be ditching 
 it right away. People who quit the game at this point, is simply not smart enough to figure what 
 to do next.
  
  Yeah, the handling is funny, you can do a lot of amazing moves easily, you might feel a bit wierd, 
 it needs some time to get used to it. Ididn't actually count he number of car this game have, roughly 
 40-50, including Japanese imports, US muscles, and European supercars too, they are divided into 
 4 "tiers", 1 are the best and 4 are the worst.
  
  I heard that some people are experincing "unstable" frame rates, I don't have this problem my self, 
 maybe they don't have a good CPU and graphic card, I suppose.
  
  In the end, I would like to say that, but you need patience as well as proper hardware to truly 
 enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: valyvr
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 19, 2008 7:47 am PT
Review:  I waited for this one to come out because i liked very much MW and it supposed to be better or 
 at leas equal to that one. EPIC FAIL!!! The game has horrible graphics (will kill your eyes after 
 a few minutes with that stupid motion blur and also all the shiny elements in-game; the road shines?! 
 it's made of metal or smth?! all the time you will have the sun in your eyes) controls (WTF?! NFS 
 was always arcade but not never at this stupid brainless level... i'm feeling like i'm driving a 
 plane or smth) and not to mention the absolutley stupid gameplay!!!! It has a huge open map but 
 in fact it's useless because you enter races just by pressing a button... The game has no main 
 menu, the AI is totally dumb and this makes the game very boring winning the races by a huge advance. 
 Very very disappointed and uninstalled it after 30-40 minutes. Don't waste your money on this! 
 If you liked MW you will totally be disappointed by this one! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: onthemove31
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 19, 2008 7:04 am PT
Review:  I bought this game because i m a huge fan of the Need for Speed series. With the release of NFS 
 ProStreet, EA already dropped the name of the franchise to a poor level.
  Here is how i m rating the game:
  
  Story: 7 ( better than ProStreet )
  Graphics: 7
  Sound/Audio 
 : 8
  Gameplay: 6
  Customization: 7
  Overall: 6.8
  
  This was a total let down by EA and BlackBox.
  
  Do not buy this game if you are looking for 
 a realistic and super-responsive game. This is just an arcade racing game with no proper presentation 
 in the end what so ever. 
  
  Once again, another let down by Electronic Arts. 
  
  As for me, the best racing game in stores now is Race Driver GRID. 
  
  I hope that EA stops 
 the NFS franchise. ProStreet was much better than this one. And the in-game acting by the starts, 
 my God!, they suck! Its like a total sitcom in a game!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Asen_khoftars
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 19, 2008 2:13 am PT
Review:  Good: Open-World
  Bad: Frame Rate !
  I think Undercover can be more intresting if EA working more in graphics , but it's good , it's 
 back to the most wanted and carbon series.
  the gameplay and soundtracks are good and making game intresting.
  
  The racing in Undercover 
 feel likes they took it straight from Most Wanted which isn't a bad thing, but I would of liked 
 to see more original stuff. Races are the standard sprint, checkpoint, lap and cost to state. As 
 for the graphics in general they look great, but they suffer from some serious pop up and general 
 clipping and frame rate issues. I just hope EA can fix these problems with a patch.
  
  Now even with all the good things I can't help, but think EA rushed Undercover a little to much 
 it feels unpolished in areas and could of used a little more time, but I give credit to EA for 
 trying to fix the mistakes of Pro Street, but in some ways they made things worse in parts of the 
 game and for the soundtrack it's pretty good, but not everyone will like it.
  
  Need for Speed Undercover is for the NFS Gamers , not NFS players ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ken2_basic
Rating: 1.5
Date: Nov 19, 2008 1:27 am PT
Review:  Well i just bough this game played it for 40 minutes then traded it for tomb raider why did i trade 
 it so quick ?. Number 1 the graphics suck need for speed most wanted graphics are even better than 
 this graphics en you can notice many bugs in the game choppy graphics game stutters sometimes i 
 have not played it for my ps3 yet but how much could the difference be but my advice to yall is 
 dont buy this game its a waste of your money. They rushed to quick they should have used some more 
 time devoliping it because this game Is 100 Procent 
 
  
 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: truevar
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 18, 2008 11:30 pm PT
Review:  Very simplified gameplay, with graphics which are not impressive however require a rediculous pc 
 due largely to the bad optimization.... for god sake, the game barely runs on two 8800GT OC 4 gigs 
 of ram on a high end x2 core!! this game does not look great it is just avg.... i swear this is 
 the last NFS game i buy... piratebay. org for this garbage. if they make bad games like this i am 
 just gona pirate them.... im sick of waisting money on trash. OHHH #%%#^#^^ THE BLOOM PLZ!!! #$%#% 
 WITH THE DAMN BLOOM!
  
  Do not buy this game you will be very disappointed.
  
  
  
  sooo....
  
  Graphics: NFS most wanted looks better.... very over done bloom effect... very annoying.
 
  Performance: runs very poorly on very high end systems. i think i avg around 20fps with two 8800gt.
 
  Gameplay: very very borring... pointless racing w/o any incentive to go on.
  
  Other thoughs: They should call this NISSAN FOR SPEED... Nissan fanboys should get a real thrill 
 out it... man i wonder how much money nissan pourd into this game..... Everything is a damn nissan.... the 
 police cars.... skylines gtr!!! ur starting chase car...... the new nissan 370z r whatever it is 
 .. i dont follow nissan... and then you get an old school nissan z to drive.... give me a break.........
 
  
  Menu System: Super bad and confucsng menu layouts.... lots and lots and lots of bugs everywhere...... the 
 mouse pointer doesnt even show up.
  
  
  
  You know what this game.... I give it a 1 because NFS use to be about making the best racing games 
 not some AVG arcade crap they can pull off every year just so they can stash more money in their 
 wallets w/o innovating and pushing the envelop. Why push it when we the consumers buy this and 
 support their lazy @$$&$$ 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ION_87
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 18, 2008 11:06 pm PT
Review:  Reading through other reviews and checking pros and cons and also from my experience (roughly pretty 
 bad) with EA i decided NOT to buy this game from EA, because of a total letdown from Red Alert 
 3, which by the way is from EA and has HIGH score attached to it, but it is so not true!
  
  First of all it seems that they forget the general idea of making games - to make ppl happy with 
 the game, that is sold to them. Despite the fact, in many websites new games from EA get very bad 
 reviews (those that are true reviews) , they keep selling us crap, crap and CRAP with big C!!!
 
  
  Heck i love hockey as a game, but the further we go, the more lame the NHL game series from EA 
 gets, also the NBA, come on, you could do better in 2003 and yet you didn't learn for these 5 years 
 what ppl want to play? The list is so HUGE, you can hardly keep up with the bad games from EA lately....
 
  
  ... and my personal point of view is that they reeeeally want to suck the money from our accounts 
 on old oil veins, that they discovered many years ago! Greed is a very bad thing and they have 
 it! 
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  And 
 here comes NFS... have been a huge fan for this game series and the best for me was NFS Porsche 
 Unleashed, where you could do so many things, that you can't do in the latest games of NFS series 
 and the new things that you can do in the game are COOL, but they for sure aren't showing us the 
 true nature of the cars which are playable ingame! And we go even further in the aspect of ARCADE 
 rather than RACING! There are coming out so much grate racing simulator games, and it seems that 
 they ignore it : ( and keep us selling crap!
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  I 
 was once a huge and proud fan of EA, now I am not, and I am very disappointed with their behavior 
 against us, players that care about the gameplay! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ahetulla
Rating: 3
Date: Nov 18, 2008 9:35 pm PT
Review:  What a way to wreck a good series. Most Wanted was by far the best, and I played this Undercover 
 for less than 5 minutes and couldn't believe how bad it was. TOTAL RIP-OFF! EA is going down hill 
 by just throwing crap out there. No new graphic improvements, cars don't wreck, the movies and 
 cut scenes are lame, and the gameplay was so bad I was appauled! EA should take some lessons from 
 the makers of GRID or DiRT. Racing games that are kick ass and are revolutionary improvements to 
 this waste of programming. Expect bad sales on this one the game community will not be forgiving 
 EA!
  I am usually not this critical when it comes to games but when you experience this game you won't 
 believe how bad it is. I couldn't believe I was playing a NFS game, like I said if your into NFS 
 series. The NFS most wanted and Carbon are the best ones. No car damage how could they release 
 this? Must have had a steep time line and left that out of the programming. 
  
  SAVE YOUR MONEY ON THIS ONE! IT SUCKS! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MickeyA
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 18, 2008 5:23 pm PT
Review:  Its hard to belive, but you might aswell go buy an older nfs...............
  
  
  
  It seems all they did was to slap on a new title and sent it out in stores, The controls are the 
 same (Awfull) the graphic hasent moved anywhere, and the same boring gameplay, you have to be a 
 hardcore nfs fan to think that this game is still fun the way it is...........
  
  I am sick an tired of the cool engine sounds in cut scenes, and when you drive the car the sounds 
 isnt anywhere near the sound in cut scenes........
  
  So nfs, next time take all the time in the world and make this game what it should be!!!!!!
  
 
  please dont buy this game!!! so they maby just maby can understand that we want somthing new to 
 nfs..............
  
  i love nfs but they have hit rock bottem whit this  
::::::

::::::
UserName: da_nikon
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 18, 2008 4:52 pm PT
Review:  It's so bad, you have no idea! Mixed Most Wanted + Carbon but only the bad stuff is taken. Frameskipping 
 even on 4870X2. The bloom effect is a bit too much for me.
  
  Graphics - bad. Audio - what audio? Engine only... Game is too easy at start and that makes it 
 very boring. Anybody can "dominate" the first ten challenges without even trying to.
  
  Too low frame rate... oh ffs its RACING game!!! I don't feel the deference between 50 and 150 mph... 
 The game is too slow to be a good racing game and the bad thing is that this can't be fixed with 
 a patch.
  
  The only thing i liked about this game was Maggie Q and the cinematics in total.
  
  THIS GAME 
 IS A TOTAL RIPOFF! I will try the version for Sony PSP tomorrow and write a review for her. Let's 
 hope there is a light in the tunnel... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghtscstefan
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 18, 2008 4:34 pm PT
Review:  The most important thing in this game is that they have simplified everything...... you don't even 
 have to go to the map to get a race it's very easy just press tab while in cruise and the race 
 closest to you will come up. Car upgrading, styling, they have made it more fun than the other 
 titles, it doesn't even compare to prostreet which was a bad joke in my opinion, I almost cried 
 after the first race, that was a sad moment, but lets skip this part. This is maybe one of the 
 most fun to play games of this kind.... It's more like Most Wanted not far away, but the new graphics 
 and car control takes it to another level. 
  I keep my pc at 3ghz with 4gb of ram, 8800GT stock 1680x1050 everything max vsync on and aa2x af 
 I don't know but its on, it goes from 30 fps to 40 which is very playable.
  The only thing I don't like is the flickering shadows I got 178.24 drivers for my video card thats 
 the latest release by nvidia.
  Have fun playing as I said before this is a game that can be enjoyed by everyone ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DPGAssault
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 19, 2008 3:52 pm PT
Review:  Wow. That's all I have to say. Being a long time NFS fan, I'm really disappointed. This makes two 
 sh*tty NFS games in a row. I thought they were really going to try to make it up to the community 
 after EPIC FAILING on Prostreet, but they pump out this trash. I really should have waited for 
 reviews or pirate this game. Seriously, I feel really bad to have paid for this bullsh*t. First 
 of all, my computer is amazing. I built it myself just a month ago and overclocked quite a bit.
 
  Core2Extreme Q9770 @ 3.6ghz
  2x 9800GTX (800/2000/1200)
  4GB Ram
  This computer handles Crysis easily on Veryhigh, but I couldn't seem to run this sh*t looking game 
 with constant frames. What a joke. This is an obvious rush work and a terrible PC port. I had my 
 resolution on 1280x1024 with 6x antialiasing, and I STILL see jagd edges on buildings, trees and 
 especially the shadows. Also, just playing this game for 10 minutes I've encountered numorous graphical 
 bugs such as buildings/roads flickering and disappearing. The graphics are a failure. They're arguably 
 worse than MostWanted. The cars look like crap, unless you're in the car showroom where they look 
 decent, but still not that great. GRID came out a while ago and still beats this game visually 
 (and gameplay wise) by a long shot.
  The next thing I'm going to talk about is the physics. They're horrible. I remember hitting some 
 cement barrier at about 20 miles an hour (I was testing the damage) and the barrier got BLASTED 
 away from the screen. Also, when you hit walls, the car just seems to bounce back as if nothing 
 happened and you can keep racing. I swear, you can probably just ride your car up against the walls 
 and win the race like that and save you the effort of turning corners. The handling of the cars 
 is ridiculous. I'm not too much of a racing simulator fan, but Undercover's car handling is just... 
 f*cking retarded. It's cool how they have those hero moves, but this is ridiculous. The cars are 
 way too responsive and easy to control. You can literally do really sharp turns wihtout hitting 
 your brake. There was a circuit race where I didn't even use the brakes at all and never hit any 
 walls. The AI is also really bad. About 10 seconds after the race has started I'm already past 
 them by a mile, and they're never to be seen again. This game offers no challenge whatsoever. It's 
 just so g*d*mn easy. I admit, I'm really good at racing games, but even someone who has never played 
 before will find this game ridiculously easy. 
  I can't really tell you much more about this game because I've only played for about 30-45 minutes 
 before getting pissed off and stopped it. But I can tell you that it is definately worse than prostreet. 
 By now I've lost hope in the NFS series. I forgave them for the disaster that is prostreet, but 
 theyve failed to impress yet again. I'll just stick to Codemasters and GRID for my racing needs. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MiLi
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 18, 2008 3:44 pm PT
Review:  Well Don't know why the internet generation is so unhappy about.
  
  I started it up, and i got that need for speed feeling from the start. So i did the first couple 
 of races. They were way easy, but its always been this way. So felt like my nissan could compete 
 against the best. The controls in the start makes it feel like its too easy, the first car responds 
 to everything u do, don't slide or anything. its just glued to the road. But u know i still liked 
 it. The cool music when u drive still sets the mood for me. not to forget the nice ladies ive meet 
 so far ^^
  
  Then i got myself a pontiac cuda, won it in a pink slip race. Hell yeah now were talking, the engine 
 sounds real good, the car shakes when i hit the gas in the 3 seconds before each race starts. The 
 car drives not like the other one. and im doing 360, havent made my first 540 yet, its a little 
 difficult. but it looks/sounds/fells right when im doing all this.
  
  So all in all, i think this game is supurb for a drive in between other stuff. But then again i 
 like these car games.
  
  And you cant compare this game to pro street which was boring, there were no cops, and zero action.
 
  
  And the ppl rating this game 1? you don't know how to use the rating scale man :P the games who 
 deserve a 1, is utter crap, gives u a bad stomach for a month by just playing 10 mins. And this 
 game for sure does not! (in my opinion anyway :) )
  
  A good middleweight game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: priit85
Rating: 2.5
Date: Nov 19, 2008 6:28 pm PT
Review:  Wow, with this game EA has hit new low. Leaving free roam out of free roaming game is just one 
 of the examples, I fail to understand what was going through their heads. I mean, people actually 
 get payed for creating the game, spending hours in the office, putting effort in it. A lot of money 
 is spent on advertising etc. etc.
  
  And the outcome... is this? Outdated graphics, close to non existent physics, lack of competitive 
 element, AI of a three year old kid (sorry little fellas, even you are smarter than the big boys 
 with serious faces in EA offices) ... the list goes on and on. They took original Most Wanted and 
 pretty much reversed it, removed what good was left in it and made everything else two times worse. 
 
  
  Some people never learn. Or maybe they don't even want to?
  
  Closing comments:
  
  DO NOT BUY THIS GAME when you love racing games passionately. Get something beautiful for your 
 girlfriend / loved one, instead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krisalid
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 18, 2008 2:43 pm PT
Review:  I saw the other users review I said to myself this game can't be that bad so I had to take it and 
 I play it and well actually it is. Everything that you'll encounter in this game is dj vu even 
 the graphics don't look spectacular; some nice visuals here there and that is it. Even the maps 
 looks strikingly familiar (most wanted) .In this new episode the cars controls weirder than all. 
 It's simple to win races because the vehicle you are riding (well let's say) a trained horse, the 
 car doesn't have her own "life", simple steering, simple cornering, simple everything. The only thing 
 I liked in this game is and illuminated underground passage and a car from my childhood which is 
 Ford Cosworth RS. You don't see that car in many games lately. I wonder what was in that guy's mind 
 from the game trailers when he was presenting the game? This game is below average ,no cool customization, the 
 car upgrades are also boring to do and the wheel man bonus takes me back into the '90 tees .This 
 game doesn't compare to GRID or Midnight club LA, they are too well made for this puny competitor. Final 
 words:
  -boring ,repetitive gameplay
  -the police are still dumb
  -everything looks recycled after 1 hour of playing
  -bad impression for last generation game 
 (this could be the worst NFS ever)
  -aaaa I could want my money back  sincerely don't bother to waster your money or time on 
 this, I m a nfs fan too and I'm disappointed. Thanks for reading my review .
  
  Note: I played the game on PC with full specs 1920x1200 with everything ON.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Torrettoo
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 18, 2008 2:26 pm PT
Review:  Blackbox studio, I hope one of you guys read this. Try this. Instead of releasing a game so quickly, 
 spend 2 years on it and make it good. This game is worse than terrible. Graphics is worse than 
 "most wanted". Controls are terrible. Everywhere is shiny shiny. Whyy?!? And why the latest nfs 
 games look like there is orange filter on them. Why are they orange filtered??!? Whyyy. I don't 
 understand. We have been waiting for this game for months. Don't you have no respect for us? And 
 this game is the same as "most wanted" The same!!! Do you think we are stupid!? I think you guys 
 thought like this in your first meeting: "What is the latest nfs game that gamers liked? -Most 
 Wanted. -Then, let's make another most wanted. Let's produce different cinematics with celebrities, 
 do a lot of advertisement and sell the game." You guys are unsuccessful programmers. And I hope 
 nobody gives you the chance of ruining another famous game again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mdmd8871
Rating: 2
Date: Nov 18, 2008 1:46 pm PT
Review:  it is so slow my PC is in great condition i got core 2 duo 3.0 ghz and ati readeon X1950 512 vga 
 with shader 3.0 and 8 gb of ram and it is working so slow how? i dunno this game really need a 
 patch or something the graphic engine sucks it makes the game boring i regret buying this game 
 really EA has ruined the driving games in the last 2 years first by removing street racing and 
 police chases and second by making games with this terrible graphics engine really this game is 
 disastrous and totally disappointing EA has done a horrible job making this game and really i wish 
 they leave the gaming industry or fire those who is responsible for need for speed under cover 
 and pro street cause 2 years without any progress is really bad and i will not buy any other driving 
 game from ea cause really it ain't worth the money at all 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shadow_Master99
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 18, 2008 12:31 pm PT
Review:  don't know what you all cry about its a perfect open world arcade racing game a game that you play 
 just for fun i any NFS game should be. i read the reviews comments and i see ppl having problem 
 with the fact that the cars makes corners instead of just slamming into every wall if you don't 
 drop you speed to 15 and if you don't like it go play GTR something and spend 60% of the time facing 
 the wrong why or having close intimate relationship with the wall . 
  
  on the bad site of thing the game could be just a bit more realistic but that would damage it arcade 
 way . and yes the game whats too much out of the pc meaning that the game engine is heaving and 
 bit rough around the edges and even with my 8800 ultra and 4gb of ram it still gets low fps sometime 
 and even lags but that what are patches are for .
  
  conclusion :
  if you want fast easy street fun arcade game its for you . but if you looking for real world physics 
 and controls you got the wrong address
  
  p. s you better have a powerful machine or its a no go for this one 
::::::

::::::
UserName: viperx64
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 18, 2008 10:18 am PT
Review:  another disappointment from EA Games with this NFS... first of all it's very poorly optimized for 
 the PC... it's like it's been ripped from the X BOX version and morphed here and there a few changes, 
 and then what do you know? the PC version came up. Bad optimization, nasty edges, bad car control, 
 no mouse, ugly looking shadows and list can go on... those guys at Reloaded had a good word: "EA 
 get some real programmers"!
  After just one race i found it boring and I'm starting to ask myself why did I waste my time/money 
 on it?
  
  Since Most Wanted and Carbon none of the following NFS's had left a bad taste in my mouth... starting 
 with Pro Street which wasn't actually that bad but it still wasn't as bad as this one... but hey... i 
 hope someone takes my advice and spends his/hers money on something better... GOOD JOB EA! REALLY 
 GOOD JOB!
  well... looks like going back to other games 
::::::

::::::
UserName: salakutt
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 18, 2008 10:12 am PT
Review:  I don't know, is my taste bad, or am i stupid (it may be case) , but i think it's not so bad after 
 all.
  
  It may look bad at the very beginning, but it really isn't. If you played ONLY one hour and then 
 un-installed, then you are dumb.
  
  Come on, look police pursuit. It really rocks. I must say, its one of greatest ones. I love to 
 escape from cop, and in this game, this is so awesomely made.
  
  Races is not so bat all. It may look like stupid, but it's actually same, as in carbon or our most 
 loved Most Wanted game. It may just little bit different system.
  
  Or look graphics, if you gonna say, that graohics sucks, then you must be greatest dumb in history. 
 Look Most wanted, there was much more boring graphic then in undercover. In most wanted, there 
 was green, green, backround is green, green buildings, just type to google - Most Wanted and watch 
 it. Maybe i lied, it looks alot like brown too. Yeah, i think this is actually brown.
  
  What more hmm? Story? Oh, i must say, it might be little bit disappointment. But this is actually 
 entertaining. Think, this game would be worst game ever, if there wouldn't be any story.
  
  There is actually MANY great things, what you havent even seen. If you gonna play only ONE hour 
 and then you allready decide: Oh, this game sucks, then you are dumb. The most entertaining parts 
 is coming after many hours.
  
  Don't be dumb, to decide in only few minutes WHOLE game. Look good points. At least, its not so 
 brown, than MW :) .
  
  Oh, and music is pretty good too :P.
  
  Oh, and lets say, that i am wrong. Then wtf are you people saying? You wanna say, that now it is 
 not so good, then other games from nfs, its 1? Worst than most worst game ever? Come on man, this 
 is not worth 1, this is more worth. Its not, like now you dont like one thing, and now tha game 
 is worst game ever.
  
  This is reason, why i think, this is worth 7.5 points at least. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wassa786
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 18, 2008 8:48 am PT
Review:  While it looked promising, they forget to tell you to have an 8800 to run the game so it doesn't 
 look like crap. Don't forget your core 2 quads....
  
  I'm running a 64-bit AMD 2.4ghz processor with Dual 7900GS 2x512mb cards..... game ran like my granny 
 in the olympics..... SLOW like molasses. It was ridiculous.... and the weird part was as I cranked 
 up the graphics to max, the FPS increased.... but not by much....
  
  I was 640x480 with all options on low, it looked like crap and ran at like 15fps..... raised graphics 
 to max and resolution to 1024x768
  w/ 2x AA and anistropic filtering.... ran a bit smoother, up to almost 20fps but HUGE fps spikes....
 
  
  Mechanics of the game seemed to easy.... as in I had to put in no effort to turn and the physics 
 of the game seemed very lame....
  
  I'll go and RENT this for my 360.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Supra_Guy
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 18, 2008 1:58 pm PT
Review:  There isn't really too much i can say... i'm still shocked about how such a game was released and 
 to be a part of the NFS series. It's a total disgrace and one of the biggest failures in the gaming 
 industry.
  Till Undercover i've enjoyed all NFS's more or less beating them AT LEAST ONCE, even Pro Street 
 which was considered the black sheep of the series, but man... that game had it's moments and some 
 obvious strong points here and there, Undercover is bad all around in a so unprofessional way that 
 it shocks me where EA is going. Yes, i uninstalled it after 1h or so.. this never , ever happened 
 to me with any other NFS! not even close.. pretty disturbing. I won't bother saying what it's bad 
 about it because you probably know. 
  I hope there will be serious firing at EA Black Box after this, and never hear from them a couple 
 of years till they come up with something revolutionary. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Liviu_Tydus
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 18, 2008 7:41 am PT
Review:  The good ::
  1. Big world (biggest so far)
  2. Some cool cars (Bugatti Veyron , Audi R8)
  
  The bad ::
  1. Poor graphics
  2. Poor frame rate on all settings
  3. Pretty short game
 
  4. The story is boring and badly told
  5. The Ai = 0
  6. Poor soundtrack
  7. Gives you that felling of unfinished game
  8. The same old police cars from Most Wanted
 
  9. The same old aftermarket upgrades
  10. Annoying dialogues
  11. 39.99 $ is too much because this game has nothing to offer
  12. The autosculpt option is 
 not that impressive.
  13. Online play is really bad because of poor frame rate and high latency.
  14. A lot of bugs 
 and glitches
  15. The damage sistem doesn't affect the performances of the car.
  
  All in all, Nfs Undercover is not worth your money. It really is an unfinished game. I belive that 
 EA lacks quality in all their 2008 releases (The quality matters , not the quantity) .
  
  Another F. A. I. L from EA ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thepowerofone
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 18, 2008 6:45 am PT
Review:  This game is a total joke in every aspect. City is lifeless, there isn't anything you can do in 
 it, navigating to races and events simply doesn't exist, you just start them through Tab or through 
 a dull map, which, even though it's oversimplistic, takes some time to load. Frontend menu does 
 not exist; cut scenes don't justify their existence, you see some standart strong language and 
 it gets soo boring watching that. Do this, do that - it's all driving in the end. I can only remeber 
 that much of the bad stuff. There's more.
  And on top of that, it's a just a terrible, terrible PC port. You won't believe your PC is capable 
 of such low framerates at such simple and ugly graphics. It's like NFS4! Unpredictable framerate 
 lows and highs occur all the time.
  
  It's a total RIp-Off! I WANT MY MONEY BACK! EA must be sued... arrrrrgh 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cswatcoz
Rating: 3.5
Date: Nov 18, 2008 8:47 am PT
Review:  its too bad the graphic engine in undercover totally ruins the experience because underneath is 
 a pretty good speed simulator...
  
  especially the street battles, which are well populated with patches of cars on long highway stretches 
 at high speed. if you've ever raced on the highway with friends, the game actually captures the 
 high speed **** that can happen pretty well [begin the trashing] sans the incredible explosions 
 and death that can occur. plus um.. any kind of drifting and anything nighttime.
  
  the art direction is totally off. its a nice world for highway driving but it lacks variety in 
 almost everything else. no sharp corners. shortcuts don't resemble shortcuts. every road in the 
 game feels 12 lanes wide. etc. and wtf? i don't know where these race game designers, ea and otherwise, 
 get the idea that glowing everything makes it realistically involving. racing is crisp and dirty. 
 there's rain and mud and sparks and chunks of metal and tire.. you know? this game looks like you're 
 driving around with cataracts.
  and nighttime.. does anybody care to do this crap in the daytime? and while some of us like it 
 that crazy the game just doesn't quite pull off the complexities of day traffic. so it loses twice 
 there. once again, its a crappy engine.
  
  the ai for the pigs can be both brutal and cheesy. you can play with them for a while and then 
 suddenly they'll drop off if you turn a corner. getting out of a stop can be frustratingly fun. 
 but, you know, when they've got me boxed in it would be nice to have a couple of them jump out 
 and start coming at your car, weapons drawn, for a little incentive. maybe later on in the game 
 they actually come after you when you're in a street race, which could add a lot of fun, but i 
 wont know because its not worth it to find out.
  
  oh and the music sucks. i guess all the rappers are out trying to find the next rock band type 
 idea to franchise on and any serious driving rock is too hard to find :rolleyes: byom.
  
  all in all ea has killed need for speed (probably selling out to the car companies AND gov scare 
 tactics ;) but if you don't mind its atrocities, it can be fun for a half an hour if you're really 
 stoned. don't forget a trainer to unlock stuff! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TweetyLeaf
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 18, 2008 6:11 am PT
Review:  Well first of all i think NFSU2 was a very good game because variety it offered + all the "extra" 
 stuff like magazine covers and huge number of customization parts.
  
  Undercover however falls short in every possible way from NFSU2 or even MW, it seems that EA is 
 in "bleeding mode" no matter what mr. Riccitello is saying in public.
  
  The most disapointing single thing however is the poor port and poor performance, if my FPS is 
 ~80-100 most of the time it still manages to drop it under 10 occasionaly and have severe slowdowns 
 while playing making the bad handling cars even worse to drive.
  
  The promised movie feeling is lost straight from the start when the game just kinda throws you 
 "undercover" into a car after 5 second "movie like intro" that doesnt explain anything and doesnt 
 give you reason to start racing (other than you need to get undercover...)
  
  Oh the huge map would be one of the positive things but wait....
  You dont have GPS! oh yes you 
 have "gps map" (wich is poor one colored mess) but you cant add markers and pressing tab takes 
 you to nearest race no matter if it would be in the other side of the map, so that kills the "open 
 world" idea pretty much.
  
  To be honest i dont have any good things to say about this game even while im trying very hard. 
 Your better of getting Race Driver Grid wich aint badly ported and has nice handling in cars and 
 it actually looks pretty damn good without performance issues. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
