-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Need for Speed: Porsche Unleashed
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/driving/needforspeedporscheu/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr 10, 2000
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.9
Critic Score: 8.4, 23 Review (s)
User Score: 8.8, 2,283 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Electronic Arts
Genre: Racing
Date:     Mar 28, 2000 &raquo;  
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Porsche Unleashed is a beautiful, comprehensive, and highly enjoyable racing sim that's suitable 
 for just about any driving enthusiast. 

 Need for Speed: Porsche Unleashed strays from several conventions previously established by the 
 popular arcade-style exotic-car racing series. For one thing, like its name suggests, Porsche Unleashed 
 features automobiles exclusively from one manufacturer. What's more, the game has a more detailed, 
 more realistic driving and physics model than its predecessors, though the game's realism is scalable. 
 And while Porsche Unleashed has a few minor shortcomings, it nevertheless stands as the most ambitious 
 game in the series since the original. As such, it'll more than likely make you love the Porsche 
 on the off chance you don't already.  

 Porsche Unleashed looks good enough to do justice to its prestigious German sponsor. The game includes 
 many dozens of different Porsche models from the manufacturer's 50-year product line, and each 
 one bears the unmistakable curvature of a Porsche. The 3D car models are highly detailed: The cars 
 all have working turn signals, brake lights, and headlights, and when you look at them in the garage, 
 you can even check the engine under the hood, pop the trunk, or view the car's interior. The cars 
 shine in the sunlight and reflect street lamps at nighttime, and they can also get noticeably damaged. 
 You can clearly see their independent suspension at work as they corner, thanks to the game's realistic 
 four-point physics model, and you can even see their drivers turning the wheel and shifting gears. 
 You can drive the cars from a 3D cockpit view, from which you get a great sense of speed, but the 
 cockpit view's limited visibility and slower frame rate - as well as the muffled engine noise - 
 make the cutaway first-person view preferable, though you can also select from two external perspectives. 
 The cars in Porsche Unleashed don't look totally perfect, as some of the minor details such as 
 the door handles are part of the texture maps, rather than part of the polygonal geometry. But 
 such details are only evident if you spend a lot of time gawking at your cars in the garage, rather 
 than racing them out on the streets of Europe.  

 The various courses in Porsche Unleashed look even better than the cars do. Porsche Unleashed is 
 the first Need for Speed since the original to feature extended open-road courses in addition to 
 closed-circuit tracks. The lush natural scenery and subtle lighting effects give you a good sense 
 of where you're driving, whether high up in the mountains at morning or down low by the docks at 
 night. Some tracks offer alternate routes to take, and all of them have plenty of peripheral detail 
 that you'll only start to notice after you've already raced along that stretch of road a half-dozen 
 times. Put it all together, and Porsche Unleashed looks fabulous. The car detail and the great 
 sense of speed you get from behind the wheel, in addition to the quaint backwater European courses 
 and even the game's stylish front-end menus make Porsche Unleashed very classy, much like its namesake. 
 Of further note, you can easily adjust graphics detail and resolution to best suit your system, 
 such that you'll find a good compromise of visual quality and fast performance even on a low-end 
 machine. However, slower computers with less RAM will experience noticeably long loading times 
 before races and even between menu screens.  

 Porsche Unleashed sounds as good as it looks. You'll hear authentic engine noises and screeching 
 tires throughout each race, along with realistic Doppler effects as you blast by your competition. 
 You can actually hear how powerful the engine is in each of the various cars you'll drive, and 
 you can gauge your RPMs just by listening, rather than by glancing at the tachometer. Porsche Unleashed 
 has more than a dozen fast, funky techno music tracks that help set the pace, although the music 
 might seem anachronistic when you're driving a 1950s-model Porsche.  

 You'll get to drive the very first Porsches all the way up through its fastest contemporary designs 
 in Porsche Unleashed's evolution mode. The evolution mode begins in 1950 and lets you compete in 
 a series of tournaments to earn cash. Each tournament takes place some years after the previous 
 one, so you can use your earnings to buy new Porsche models as they became available. The evolution 
 mode can be played as a serious simulation: You can tweak your cars' shocks for ride height, stiffness, 
 and travel, just as you can adjust downforce, brake balance, and tire pressure, all to suit the 
 road conditions. Porsche Unleashed is easy to play with automatic transmission in beginner mode, 
 but expert mode can be a real challenge, as even the best Porsche is liable to slide out of control 
 off a sharp corner unless you're ready to brake and downshift around each bend. But even the expert 
 mode is highly forgiving with regard to damage modeling; you'll typically be able to recover even 
 after a head-on collision with some unassuming motorist, though damaging your car can directly 
 affect its steering and its other driving characteristics. You'll have the option to pay for repairs 
 in between races, or you can opt to put your car on the used-car market and hope to make some money 
 off it. Similarly, you can buy used cars as they become available between races, and thus save 
 yourself some money that you can use to purchase lots of different custom parts for the vehicle. 
 The evolution mode is also a clever means of offsetting the game's learning curve, as the older-model 
 Porsches are a lot slower than the modern-day ones. The only problem with the game mode's design 
 is that it'll take you awhile to work your way up to the Porsche models you're used to seeing on 
 the streets, which can get frustrating if you want to cut to the chase right away in the latest 
 911 Turbo.  

 If you just want to get behind the wheel of the fastest car Porsche has ever made, then you'll prefer 
 the innovative factory-driver mode, in which you assume the role of a test-driver for the manufacturer. 
 You'll get assignments from various Porsche personalities, including an executive, the chief tester, 
 and even a rival test-driver, and you'll need to complete each of these to advance to the next. 
 There are around three-dozen missions in all, and they range from standard test-driver challenges 
 that test your cornering and acceleration, to more unusual scenarios in which you need to deliver 
 your vehicle for shipment quickly and without damaging it, to rally races, and more. Porsche Unleashed 
 has no hot-pursuit mode like its predecessor, but you'll sometimes encounter Porsche cop cars in 
 the factory-driver mode, who'll try to run you off the road one way or another. Some of the missions 
 are very challenging, but they're short enough and diverse enough that you'll want to persevere 
 through them all, if only to see what sort of exotic car you'll get to commandeer for the next 
 one. Fortunately, no matter what car you're in, the game controls responsively regardless of what 
 peripheral you're using. There's even an option to set your joystick dead-zone to help make your 
 steering more precise.  

 In addition to the other modes, Porsche Unleashed lets you run a quick race against up to seven 
 opponents, and it also includes a knockout mode that's an endurance match in which the last car 
 around the track is eliminated each lap, until one car wins. The quick-race mode lets you choose 
 from the cars that you've made available in the evolution mode in addition to a few select stock 
 models, which means that you'll need to spend a lot of time racing through the ages before you'll 
 have a wide selection of cars. Porsche Unleashed also includes a history of Porsche that has photographs 
 and even some video advertisements of many of its famous cars. As of this writing, the game's online 
 multiplayer racing mode is still in an open beta-test phase, though Electronic Arts is already 
 starting to provide additional cars for download.  

 Porsche Unleashed is a beautiful, comprehensive, and highly enjoyable racing sim that's suitable 
 for just about any driving enthusiast. It makes no false claims about the limits of its extensive 
 features, so although it'll give you a chance to experience what it's like to drive all the different 
 types of Porsches from over the years, it won't let you race those cars against their competition 
 from other exotic-automobile manufacturers. Nevertheless, once you get behind the wheel of one 
 of the high-performance machines featured in Porsche Unleashed, chances are you'll feel no need 
 to drive anything else for a long time.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (35 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: blu141
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 24, 2008 3:05 pm PT
Review:  This was by far the best NFS of its time. It was first game with decent graphics, a great damage 
 model, and a good selection of cars. If you're not a fan of porsches, don't even think about playing 
 this game.
  When you first start the evolution mode, you have to drive painfully slow 356s. The cars start 
 getting good once you get to the modern era, but that takes a while to get to. When you're racing 
 your 356 all the other racers are better than you, so get it upgraded at the parts shop to give 
 yourself a chance. Also, doing some quick races will help you learn the tracks. Surprisingly for 
 me, the game got easier as the mode progressed because the cars kept getting better. If you can 
 survive the painfully slow cars, (cough) 914 (cough) , the modern cars are worth it. The cops are 
 kind of pointless and you cant drive them. 
  Factory driver is great. I liked it better than evolution because you get to start driving fast 
 cars right away. I wish it had had more missions, but it was a great feature.
  I've beaten factory driver and evolution mode. If you're bored, download the 911 GT2, GT3 and the 
 928, but they can only be used in quick race. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dainsanereview
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 21, 2008 4:54 pm PT
Review:  need for speed porsche unleashed game is packed with all the porsche's and even has a thing were 
 u acctually get to see the history of porsche pretty cool. they have a single player mode were u 
 can play a quick race or tournment or quick knockout u can also change the diffucly to easy medium 
 and hard but no god mode. they also have a multiplayer mode where u can play two player or u can 
 play online but back in 2000 u where aloud to play online but now online play is outdated : ( if 
 only i had that back to the future car if only. the career mode there are 3 era's u get to race 
 in .u get to race old cars and buy & sell your own cars. last question is this game a to buy game 
 or rent. u cant rent pc games but just go buy it .GOt it on ebay tell my why i need another pet 
 rocK tell me why.
  really hard game to find.
  control 6
  graphics 10
  gameplay 10
  sound 10
  overall 9.0 great game go porsche. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jayabusa666
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 29, 2008 12:15 pm PT
Review:  great fun when you have "the boys" over and take turns trying to beat each others scores and the 
 system. The best car game physics around. I've actually had the priviallage to drive a few of these 
 rare beauties and this is so real. Add a Formula Force wheel from Logitec (a good one with no plastic 
 parts.) and a fan and you feel like you've got the top down on a backroad in the country. No silly 
 speed effects or insane jumps that no car would survive. Just a Spot On simulation with great repeat 
 game play. Even the historical mode is educational, you'll love it! I wish they'd do more of these 
 then the same week effect based ones all the companies seem to have headed for lateley. Don't get 
 me wrong I have almost all the NFS series but this is by far there best outing. Nice job Electronic 
 Arts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tony205
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 19, 2008 7:18 am PT
Review:  WOW! What a masterpiece EA has produced. One of the worlds greatest car: Porsche, is well represented 
 in this game.
  The thing that will make you be so exited about NFS: Porsche Unleashed are the cars. You can drive 
 all sorts of cars: from the 50's to Boxsters and 911's to Moby Dick and Porsche 917. The customization 
 part is big, especially at all the performance parts and you can even put numbers on your car, 
 stripes and a new coat of paint. All of the customization part is made in the career mode. There 
 you can also buy used cars. 
  The strenght of Porsche Unleashed is when the rubber meates the road. Storming on Germany's Autobharn, 
 racing on the narrow streets of Monaco, or cruising on the french roads of Normandia, feels very 
 fun and challenging.
  Graphics look superb, even if the game is from 2000 and the trailer looks awesome.
  Before you 
 can attack the career mode, if you want, you can go to the driving school! I recomende you the 
 school because it will learn you vital tricks.
  The career is separated into 3 eras: classic era, modern era and golden era. Each era has it's 
 own cars and dificulty level.
  Gameplay: 10
  Graphics: 10
  Sound: 10
  Fun: 10
  Multyplayer: 10
  NFS Porsche Unleashed: An enjoiable street racer that must be tried, especially 
 by a Porsche fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neil_2468
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 8, 2008 2:05 pm PT
Review:  I find that NFS Porsche Unleashed is great, because it feels more like a simulation.
  
  It offers a wonderful selection of many different Porsches made since the 1950s. Even the European 
 tracks are wonderful.
  
  It's clear that the graphics weren't perfect, since this game was made in 2000, meaning there are 
 a few flaws in the gameplay. But even then, the gameplay is still very nice, the driving feels 
 realistic and the damage taken by the car affects its performance more realistically than in NFS 
 High Stakes. The sound effects are great, too, even though the more recent NFS games have more 
 realistic sound effects.
  
  The game is well constructed with its different modes, especially Evolution mode (career mode) , 
 which starts off with Porsches from the 1950s, and works its way up all the way to the latest Porsche 
 of 2000. There may not be any of todays Porsche models like the Cayenne, Cayman, or even the Carrera 
 GT, but that's OBVIOUSLY because they were made after the year 2000.
  
  Overall, Porsche Unleashed is one of the most best NFS games in its time.
  
  For NFS ProStreet, 
 I found that it wasn't as bad as a lot of people thought it was, because its gameplay was also 
 more of a simulation. It only got a lower rating because it was missing stuff from the other recent 
 NFS games and because other games like ProStreet already exist, like Forza Motorsport 2, Project 
 Gotham Racing and now Gran Turismo 5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marktsy
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 27, 2008 4:37 pm PT
Review:  Well, this gane has no repetative matrial I have found. The cars come in a wide selction, and are 
 acuratlely dewpicted. But a flaw in graphics is that at the border of the track, the area, trees 
 and all, look as if they were drawn on paper. Knowing how to finetune your car will make it easier, 
 and finetuning is also easy. It's very forgiving, you get a plaant amount of monry even after you 
 lose. And catching up is easy, accelarating is not., to good, Damage to yuo car even after a big 
 collison is negligable, and without knpwing, trying to crash a opponent, will get you in an accident. 
 I will say once again that the graphics are not too great, and not 3d either, damage is not realistic, 
 but if you pay attention to the race it will not matter. Unfirtunaltly i know no cheats to this 
 game, but it is so easy, the yare unnecassary.
  MUST BUY FOR LOVERS OF RACING 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlirezaAAA
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 20, 2008 2:17 pm PT
Review:  I have recently finished playing this game. Even now that there are many racing games in the market, 
 playing Porsche is something attracting. I finished the evolution mode completely but i was not 
 able to finish the factory driver mode. Graphics are very nice but the most attracting matter about 
 this game is details of cars. It is just like walking through a museum. Detailed car parts is something 
 missing in most games but this one is something different. Sounds are not so good and menus are 
 not comparable with new titles but i am sure that at its time, it was one of the best. There were 
 some incompatibilities with windows xp. By applying some patches, i solved this problem but i was 
 still obliged to use anti-aliasing to correct fonts. Still there was crashes and ALT-TABBING was 
 not supported. And at last this a very hard game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Quebeckjenda
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 20, 2008 3:45 am PT
Review:  I played all serier but the only one i remember is Need for speed 5 and Need for Speed Underground 
 2, but need for speed 5 is more better, it is real simulation, and difficulty is so hard, Wonderfull. 
 yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah
  I played all serier but the only one i remember is Need for speed 5 and Need for Speed Underground 
 2, but need for speed 5 is more better, it is real simulation, and difficulty is so hard, Wonderfull. 
 yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah
  I played all serier but the only one i remember is Need for speed 5 and Need for Speed Underground 
 2, but need for speed 5 is more better, it is real simulation, and difficulty is so hard, Wonderfull. 
 yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah
  I played all serier but the only one i remember is Need for speed 5 and Need for Speed Underground 
 2, but need for speed 5 is more better, it is real simulation, and difficulty is so hard, Wonderfull. 
 yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah 
::::::

::::::
UserName: P1zzaman
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 16, 2007 10:56 am PT
Review:  Porsche Unleashed is the black sheep of the Need for Speed series. The feel, the handling, the 
 game modes are different than the conventional NFS game. With that being said, it is the best one 
 out of the NFS series. 
  
  First off, a lot of detail has been put into the feeling of each car. Each car is distinctively 
 different. The in car camera with the hand on the wheel is rendered in beautiful 3D (for its time) . 
 The car rattles, shakes, tilts... you feel that if you make a too heavy of a turn the car would 
 flip... and that's a great feeling from the standard "road yacht" feeling of the other games.
 
  
  Whether or not this style of the game was developed accidentally or intentionally and EA decided 
 that it was an experiment... this game stands on a whole new higher level. A game style that we 
 may never see again in the NFS series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pjawsk
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 23, 2007 2:29 am PT
Review:  NFS: Porsche Unleashed mixes a great driving sim with some amazing graphics!
  
  I know i know, the game is from 2000. But holy cow, it looks fantastic! The textures are wonderful 
 and you really feel like you are there!
  
  When you drive 200 M/Ph, you can feel it. You can't really just hold the speeder down and turn 
 at the same time. You have to slow down and this males the game very realistic. The modes are not 
 too long and not too short, the only really letdown is that the online is not really there, if 
 it was. then it would have gotten 10.
  
  If you are a racing sim fan, you should really own this game. If not, go down and buy it. NOW! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fla_Dechen
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 13, 2007 6:57 am PT
Review:  I am very entusiastic about this very game because it's already been 7 years I own it and it's 
 been 7 years it surprises me some way everytime I play it!
  This game is beautiful, the textures and scenarios and the cars are amazing! The gameplay is awesome 
 and you really feel like you're driving a Porsche... actually, you feel like you're really driving 
 a car (what won't happen in Hot Pursuit 2) . And the sensation of being driving at 300km/h in a 
 highway at a snowy sunset is just unbelievable! Much better if you own a steering wheel...
  The difficulty is just right, which grows as you advance on the game.
  And the customization 
 of the cars is one of the highest points in the game. You chance engine parts, you change body 
 parts, you change the rim, but the car still looks as it is meant to look, a Porsche!
  Another great point is racing for winning a rare car! And when you lose, oh man! Check the price 
 of the car and cry, because they are expensive!
  Talking about money, I learned a lot about playing NFS while playing Porsche Unleashed... because 
 before it, I was reckless, but after having to pay for every bump, every scratch in my car with 
 my hard earned cash, I learned to use the brake pedal a little often hahahaha
  To sum up, Porsche Unleashed is in my opinion one of the best NFS and racing games ever released, 
 and even with great games as Most Wanted and Carbon, there'll still be some time to a better game 
 to be released. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sharier
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 9, 2007 3:23 am PT
Review:  In this fifth NFS installment, EA goes after a single brand of cars- Porche. Okay I will perhaps 
 never get to drive a Porche in real life -- so its an extra incentive for me to try it out in the 
 PC.
  You start this visually stunning game as a career Porche driver. The moment you start your training 
 in the career, you will understand that this game was designed in a different way, with the cars 
 tending to be a bit hard to control. At first it did not feel like NFS. After spending a good deal 
 of time practicing, yeah -- this is it.
  This is the game of practice to perfect your speed, deal with the hard bends and beat your opponents. 
 The more you lose, the more you will become addicted to the game -- because when you lose -- its 
 just because of one inch of difference with your opponent. The graphics of this game is the best 
 of all the NFS games. They are visually stunning enough to make you want to explore the levels 
 again and again. Go ahead drive your Porche. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Turbopowered007
Rating: 7.9
Date: Mar 8, 2007 9:36 am PT
Review:  When the game Need For Speed Porsche unleash was released it set the standards at the time.
  
  With its revolutionary graphics and high detailed cars and cockpits, this game certainly brought 
 new elements into the racing game franchise.
  
  At the time of its release this game appeared to please most of the racing car game fans. For those 
 who loves fast cars this game had it. For those who preferred realistic driving this game also 
 has it, etc...
  
  The game can also be played by people of all skill levels. Whether you're one of those people who 
 collect all the nfs series or those who only occasionally play games, this game was for you.
  
  All in all this is an enjoyable game to play, with good graphics (at the time of its release) 
 excellent game play and great value for money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomas85
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 14, 2007 2:53 pm PT
Review:  The best racing game EA has ever made. I have tried every single racing game out there for PC and 
 sincerely I can say that nothing I have ever tried Has even come close to this game. Just in the 
 amount of detail alone it can shadow any modern game from flashing signal lights, working gauges 
 in interior view, horn, correct body panel dents, car physics, engine sound, period correct everything, 
 car history, and not to mention the amount of fun this game still offers to this day. The only 
 thing that leaves me wishing is the graphics, but then again, you have to remember this is a 7 
 year old game, maybe by todays standards is a little pix-ily, but in wide-screen at full resolution 
 you would never notice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gta11
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 23, 2007 11:22 pm PT
Review:  Need for Speed: Porsche Unleashed For PC.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  ===========================================================
  THE GOOD : It Has The 2nd Best Brand 
 Of Car In The World, Racing Is Very Good, Gotta Love The Level Designs, Sound And Graphics Are 
 Good.
  ===========================================================
  THE BAD : The Glitches Are Annoying, Cheap Cheap Cheap AI, Controls Sometimes Were Bad, Gets Choppy 
 Sometimes, In Game Music Is Not Good.
  ===========================================================
  
  I mainly played this back when 
 i was obsessed with cars and PC's, so because i don't have it anymore it kinda made this review 
 a bit harder too do.
  Need for Speed: Porsche Unleashed is one of the better racers made for the PC and that descision 
 can be cleary made by the graphics and the awesome racing.
  
  
  Gameplay : The bread and butter of every game, the gameplay is very addictive. Evolution is the 
 heart of this game. Part racing, part car collecting and part money making makes this mode very 
 fun as you race through the years, driving most models Porsche makes, buying and selling cars and 
 earning money while your goal is to collect all the models and make it to the year 2000. Evolution 
 is divided into 3 different eras, Classic era Golden era and Modern era, each of them with its 
 own tournaments and challenges, AI difficulty and Porsche models. Each tournament has its own restrictions 
 and entry fees which are supposed to balance between different cars so as to prevent a state of 
 handicapping by the AI or the player. Except for the Classic era, each era is divided to a number 
 of tournaments and Club Races. Tournaments count as passing the years and progressing through Evolution 
 mode while Club Races are a good way to earn money and increase the value of your older cars. When 
 you finish an era you are taken to the bonus race menu in which you are given a chance to win a 
 bonus race class car without paying for it. All you have to do is win a five lap race on one of 
 the circuits tracks. You can tune the cars to match the the terrain of the track and also purchase 
 optional parts, all taken from the Porsche catalogue, to increase your car's performance. The AI 
 offers little, if any, challenge on the earlier races but, as you progress through Evolution the 
 AI improves in both skill and car managing and will later provide you with healthy competition.
 
  
  Another addition to the game is Factory Driver. Factory Driver is a mode in which you are employed 
 as a Porsche test driver, testing various models in stunts which include timed acrobatic runs, 
 timed races, car delivery, the occasional challenge from fellow test drivers and more. Factory 
 driver is a great way to add new and refine existing player's driving skills as some tasks require 
 perseverance and patience to complete. After you complete a certain number of stunts and missions 
 you get a chance to earn a promotion which will award you with a higher rank ID and the use of 
 a factory standard model with a custom paint job on it, if you complete it. The classic Single 
 Player exists along with the classic game modes such as single race, knockout and tournament. Hot 
 Pursuit has been dropped in favor of the Evolution and Factory Driver modes. In addition to that 
 rally style tracks have been added for those who've had it up to here with circuits, although there 
 are a few circuits for those who can't do without them. A Porsche chronicle has been added for 
 that little piece of history which might interest Porsche lovers. The chronicle contains beauty 
 shots and print media of all the Porsche models in the game.
  
  Evolution might take some time to fully complete if you're trying to collect all the models because 
 once you have let the years pass there is no option of load or save. Some models will appear on 
 the used car market for you to buy but some will forever be gone, which might make you start the 
 game all over again. After Evolution mode there's Factory Driver which will last depending on you 
 driving skill. If you know how to handle a car and use manual transmission Factory Driver should 
 be a breeze. Graphics : The graphics have been improved so as to give players an even more realistic 
 feeling. Tracks are so beautiful you need to watch out not to crash while admiring the view. While 
 you are driving through the courses try to look for trees, piles of trunks, stores, houses and 
 other buildings, ships, trains, hills, mountains and more. The Porsches are designed with the utmost 
 accuracy, from interior to extreme bodywork design, so as to give a true feeling of how it might 
 feel like when you drive a Porsche. Car damage is also designed to imitate a real dent on a car. 
 Windows will break when a car rolls over on its roof. On some tracks the skybox looks really good. 
 If you drive in the direction of the sun the light will reflect on your windshield like in a real 
 car. I took a point out for the disappointing fact of how the traffic cars are designed. Traffic 
 cars look like boxes on four wheels which is pretty ugly. Sound : I would have to say that the 
 music in this game is not what I was expecting. From hearing the little in game music I've heard 
 I found it not much to my liking, which is composed mainly out of trances. The menu music is so 
 good and fitting though, that I still can't get it out of my head. Sound is also a crucial factor 
 in racing games as it gives the player a feeling of realistic play. Fortunately, this game doesn't 
 lack sound effects as one would expect, which go pretty well if I might add, which add up to that 
 realistic feeling. Engine roars, tire squeaks and original horns are a part of those sound effects. 
 Ambient sounds are exquisite which makes a feeling of driving on a real track. Birds, foghorns, 
 livestock, falling trees, blizzards and rain drops are some of best ambient sounds. Sports cars 
 fans who love racing should buy this game pronto, otherwise you're making a mistake. An NFS fan, 
 should rent this game and see if it suits him before making a final decision. Either way you'll 
 have fun playing this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nenadd1
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 5, 2006 7:24 am PT
Review:  While I was playing The Need For Speed: Porsche Unleashed for the first time I thought wow this 
 is the best racing game I have ever played. So I played and played for days maybe weeks but I didn't 
 get bored with it. So after a year or two I installed again and start playing but all the same 
 :) this game is simply addictive and no mater how long you play, it can never become boring. The 
 graphics are great, the Game-play is simply the best ever. You create your own profile and then 
 you can choose a game mode: Evolution witch let you start in classic era from year 1950 then advance 
 to golden era, and modern era 2000. In this game mode you can buy every car that Porsche has ever 
 made between the years 1950 and 2000. You can also upgrade your car with new engine, exhaust, rims, 
 turbo, supercharger, etc. The other game mode is Factory Driver. This is very fun to play because 
 it gives you all kinds of challenges to finish in order to become the number 1 test driver for 
 Porsche. Other game modes are single player ( quick race, knockout, quick knockout ) and multi-player. 
 Finally my advice is: if you are a fan of NFS ( the real NFS series not Underground, Most Wanted, 
 Carbon ) then this game is a must have.
  Best regards: Nenad D1 
::::::

::::::
UserName: COOLDUDEGAMER
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 13, 2006 12:44 pm PT
Review:  This is a very good older PC NFS racing game. I beat it on every computer I have it on. Now you 
 can go to a store and buy a NFS pack with this game and other NFS games dirt cheap. I enjoy playing 
 this game nearly every day. It is extremely fun and addictive to racing game fans. This game runs 
 great on my 1.2 Ghz AMD Athlon Thunderbird overclocked to 1.3 Ghz with a Nvidia Geforce 2 MX400 
 AGP 4X video card and over 640 MB of PC133 ram. Be sure to use either a PC steering wheel or a 
 playstation style gamepad when playing this game. I reccomend not using the keyboard as the controller 
 when playing this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dedzombiedude
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 6, 2006 1:48 pm PT
Review:  porche unleashed cool awsome deck this will be add to my games discuss write text When writing 
 your review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. We encourage 
 you to try to get your review right the first time -- you may choose to edit it later on, but by 
 doing so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We encourage you to write 
 your review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy and paste 
 it into the posting box below. Re-Volt has its share of problems and ends up being only decent 
 when it could have been great. Test Drive 5
  Test Drive 5 looks pretty good in a vacuum, but it simply does not compare well with Need for Speed 
 III. Hot Wheels Stunt Track D
  . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cowboydb59
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 18, 2006 6:03 am PT
Review:  Okay, the main problem with this game is the physics. Inertia is amplified many times, and so you 
 find it's very hard to turn for the first half second, and then you go flying around in a tight 
 circle. Or you watch your car go from zero to sixty in all of ten seconds.
  The second problem is mostly with the older cars, but you have to wonder: Why did they even put 
 the older cars in the game? Sure, you have to start with the wimpy cars. But why couldn't they 
 be small and quick, like Hot Pursuit, instead of big and horribly clunky? And why is it that you 
 can't just skip that part of the story? It goes on waaay too long and I'd like to see someone enjoy 
 racing the older cars.
  If you get past that, the game gets a little better. Still, the physics feel very strange. It's 
 like your car has trackballs instead of wheels and can roll in any direction. And the wheels don't 
 turn, but you spin the car.
  Plus, when you powerslide, friction is nullified and you spin a very tight 180 (very useful for 
 a car commercial, but I digress.)
  
  Gameplay: I think you saw enough gameplay comments up there.
  
  Graphics: Decent. You're not 
 going to be enjoying the enviroments that much, except at Monte Carlo and some fishing village 
 track... at least I think it's a fishing village... I haven't played this for a few months.
  
  Sound: Not too good at all.
  
  Value: Almost high. It's cheap, so if you *need* another 
 racing game and already have every single other one ever made (with the possible exception of Big 
 Rigs) then you can buy it. Loser.
  
  Reviewer's tilt: Low. One last note: You have to pay for $%^&amp; damage to your cars. Realistic, 
 maybe. But it means you can't ram people for the lead (although I'd like to see you try it the 
 way these cars handle.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vianegativa85
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 10, 2006 8:51 am PT
Review:  Porsche Unleashed was one of the finest Need For Speed games ever made. It was a game made with 
 REAL love for cars and most certainly real love for Ferdinand Porsche and his cars. The gameplay, 
 the sound, the graphics, even the music was good, nothing could comprimise this game.
  
  Some might find it boring or too hard, if you scratched your car you had to pay to repair it, but 
 hey! More challenge, more fun if you ask me, and if you had a steering wheel/pedal setup you were 
 golden! Back when I played it I had a Logitech steering wheel and pedals kit and it worked so well, 
 my dad even played it, A LOT actually, it was just one of those games that game together perfectly.
 
  
  Although forgotten by many, this is still one of the best of its time and one of the best racing 
 sims ever made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rome_212
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 23, 2006 4:37 am PT
Review:  This is one of the BEST PC games I've ever played!!!!!!! I'm a really big fan of cars, and this 
 game didn't let me down ONE bit!!!!!!! An amazing game for a Porsche fan!!!!!!!
  
  One of the big things that shines is the gameplay. The game really wasn't that hard to me. It was 
 easy, and when I get those parts and install them after I spend big bucks, the speed and handling 
 feels like magic!!!!!!! Factory Driver mode is a bit challenging, but really fun. 
  
  The last time I played the game, I was just a kid (I'm 15 now) , and the graphics were sooooooo 
 nice!!!!!! Compared those graphics to the graphics of the PS1 version, the cars actually looked 
 real!!!!!! Beautifully designed tracks and cars!!!!!! Really commendable!!!!!!!!
  
  I beat the whole game long ago. It was extremely fun!!!!!!! One of the very best games for the 
 PC!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fireworld2406
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 18, 2006 3:39 pm PT
Review:  If you are somebody who likes Porsches a lot, then you should immediately goto your closest gamestore 
 and try to get it used. But, if you don't like Porsches a lot, I wouldn't suggest getting this 
 game. While it might be obvious to some by its name, Porsche Unleashed contains only Porsches. 
 The "Test Drive" mode, which replaces the career mode, has you doing stuff like timed tests for 
 Porsche. Now, the tracks are excellent. One of my favorite is the Autobahn in Germany. The graphics 
 are pretty good, and I don't have any complaints about the sound. But, unless you are a diehard 
 Porsche fan, see if you can play it at your friend's house etc. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wtj87
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 7, 2006 8:56 am PT
Review:  This is a game that is all about racing, realistically. Your cars take damage in certain area's 
 and handling of the vehicle is fairly realistic. It's almost like a gran tourismo, only with damage 
 affects that change the response of your car. The different tracks are good and so does the skill 
 required for each track. 
  If you really want to beat this game though, you need a racing wheel of some sort. Otherwise you 
 will not be able to pass certain missions, because it requires some precision. The graphics in 
 the game are pretty decent as well. If you skid it leaves skid marks and there's also traffic that 
 can get in the way. Not to mention cops that do crazy damage to you and try to pull you over for 
 almost no reason at all. But besides all of that the game is very good and a good game for PC 
::::::

::::::
UserName: salmanj1
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 16, 2006 6:45 am PT
Review:  Zabardast as they would call it in Pakistan Translation: great, awesome, spectacular, spell binding 
 I cant seem to describe how sorry I feel for the game its just under appreciated it has a few 
 flaws of course but its an over-all nice game with nice graphics e. t. c. but unfortunately it sucks.. 
 I hate that test drive 1 hit and u get a 10s penalty :@ I used to get so angry about it sometimes 
 I actually broke the cd in half  good thing I had backup  any wayz its a good 
 game to spend time on the ways to any place are faster if they are longer (key to need for speed)
 
  Anywayz this is salman signin off
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yamauchirulez
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 11, 2006 3:30 pm PT
Review:  This game is a game that has every thing. Exotic cars, a lot of highly detailed tracks, a impressingly 
 difficult factory driver's mode, a great multiplayer and single palyer arcade mode and a era mode 
 that kept me running until year 2000. This game is a gem. This is a buy that you should really 
 consider if you like racing games. Unlike Porsche Challenge, in this one, you get many Porsches 
 and you can download even more. The best part of the game is the damage. The damn damage can completely 
 ruin a game but makes Porsche Unleashed unique. It has the item that keeps Gran Turismo from getting 
 a 10 out of 10. That damage is realistic and gives you a reason to race well. If you do not drive 
 well, you will probably end up starting your game again. The factory mode is the challenging story 
 mode where you start from the factory driver and try to get to the ace driver spot. Highly Addictive, 
 I say. In conclusion, Perfction was so close, I give EA a way to go for this one!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hrc1966
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 21, 2005 3:37 am PT
Review:  Actually Ive not succeeded running the game on XP. As a result of that I tried the NFS Underground 
 2 which installed perfectly but rendered me very dissatisfied. The driving feel was rotten and 
 so the AI. No matter if you were driving the Skyline with all options installed the competitors 
 are keeping up with you. It surprised my greatly that a game 2 versions from Porsche 2000 turned 
 out to be half as interesting.
  
  So: I hate the Underground-games!
  
  The Porsche 2000 features a great driving dynamics and graphics that are incredibly advanced for 
 such an old game. The menus are slow and cumbersome. Playing the game as much as Ive done, some 
 hotkeys would have come in handy there, especially the menus where you buy and upgrade the cars.
 
  
  The test driver section is great but I miss/need the possibility to go directly into reverse when 
 in the tasks where you go forward, pull the handbrake, slide the rear end of the car 180 degrees, 
 go reverse keeping up the speed, turn the wheel and skid the front wheels to go forward again. 
 Wheres that function?
  
  Im back trying driving Porsches again (alas ;-) )  that is when I get it installed right.
  Read 
 on the net that I have to pick an old DirectX 8 and downversion my video drivers as well to have 
 it work.
  Where's the support for the great but elder games, EA?
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikromouse
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 18, 2005 9:35 pm PT
Review:  Porsche Unleashed was a game I purchased again, from the bargain bin. I have to say no other Need 
 for Speed game gave me chills when picked it up, but this one did.
  
  Finally, a return to true driving, just like the original NFS games!!
  
  This game follows 
 a different style of progressing through levels. You start out with the original Porsche cars and 
 as you progress you can gain the later Porsche models.
  
  The tracks themselves are beautifully rendered and have a very strong European theme. You can race 
 upon the Cote D'Azur, through the Autobahn, and through some neighborhoods that look a lot like 
 Holland.
  
  A strong departure from other games in the series, this incarnation features crash physics. That 
 is, if you crash the car on the left side, your car will pull left and common engine components 
 on that side will start to function pretty poorly if you repeatedly crash. It's a slight departure 
 away from true arcade styling, but a welcome one.
  
  There are also some "side quests" that take you through lessons and challenges as a Porsche test 
 driver. You learn how to do 360's, hard spins, braking maneuvers, etc. It seems like an add-in, 
 not something designed from the get go.
  
  Graphics themselves utilize recent hardware, specular lighting, reflections, and average weather 
 generation effects. Prior to the NFS: Underground/ U2 versions this was the NFS game that I spent 
 the most time on. Granted, its now 5 years old, but at the time it was worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dodger26
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 22, 2005 12:52 am PT
Review:  If you like Porsches, then you will love this game. It contains many different Porsche from many 
 different eras. It's include a number of fun maps with plenty of secret roads and things to do.
 
  
  But the best part of the game (at least it's my favorite part) is the manufacturer driver license. 
 This mode enables you do take your skills to their limits in several tough courses. Where you will 
 have to use speed, handling, and precision to pass the tests. It's a pretty unique mode.
  
  The graphics aren't that great but this game was made a long time ago. This is the only (I think) 
 racing game for Porsches only so why not get it if you are a Porsche fan? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KaotixGTX
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 5, 2005 1:50 pm PT
Review:  So how many of you love Porsches (and not rice burners) ? How many of you wish you could race them 
 all day long, able to race each one since the first from Porsches beginning (and no rice burners 
 would be involved) ? How many of you hate rice burners and wish EA would go back to glory days of 
 high speed Italian cars (and grimmace whenever you hear one of those stupid mufflers making that 
 buzzing sound) ?
  
  WELL YOU MISSED YOUR CHANCE!
  
  Aside from Hot Pursuit 2, this was the last great game that EA will EVER make in my opinion. The 
 arcade-style action was proof that EA was at the height of its life during this time. The AI wasnt 
 hard, but it wasnt easy. The ability to customize your car with new parts, new hubcaps, new bumpers, 
 new paintjob, etc. was nice. But not too in depth. Because it wasnt about customizing, it was about 
 racing.
  
  The graphics are some of the most impressive Ive ever seen since High Stakes. The villages of the 
 European countries (or is it just Germany?) are fun to take a Sunday stroll through. The lighting 
 was excellent and the lens flare wouldnt blind you like nowadays. The cars are full and you may 
 rarely see a small slit of a glitch.
  
  The sound was original. The music was done by Rom Di Prisco and the others that worked on the previous 
 games. They could have added Junkie XL in there and made this kickarse. The cars of the past sound 
 weak, but thats what they sounded like back then. The ones from 2000 sound like true Porsches.
 
  
  Ive played this game for some time now. And it really ticks me off that EA got rid of the servers 
 to make room for underground. I honestly dont see why rice burners are so much more important than 
 a car with a long line of history.
  
  People need to stop marveling over cars with loud mufflers (all noise, no power) and get back to 
 the TRUE sports cars. Those people like me that are left are eager to see the return of them in 
 Need For Speed games. Until then, goodbye EA.
  (Sports cars in Most Wanted? No. Those arent sports cars. Those are just customizable POSs that 
 Id never race.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xts3
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 2, 2005 2:23 am PT
Review:  Just a note to anyone reading this review, Take off 1 or 1.5 points of graphics off my score since 
 I'm reviewing this game a good 4 years after it having been released with me having played this 
 game in fits and spurts since then. Every so often I get the urge to play it and come back to it 
 because the way the car physics and control was handled was so well implemented. Not to mention 
 some of the tracks were just so well designed you want to see them again.
  
  This game is not your run of the mill Arcade racer where you can smash into anything and jerk the 
 wheel hard at high speeds and not-spin-out. In short in this game the faster you go the more difficult 
 it will be to control your car at highspeed, more like how it works in the real world. The game 
 models the physics of the cars pretty good though it doesn't totally bow to being over-realistic 
 to the point where it makes the game not fun. If you love driving games you'll probably want to 
 pick this one up in the bargain bin since it's 4 or so years old now. The game is a pure racing 
 game in that there is nothing to do besides drive and beat your opponents in the different races. 
 So if you go in expecting midnight club style racing you'll be disappointed. This is after all 
 pre-midnight club and NFS underground.
  
  The graphics are dated by 2004's standards but don't let that deter you from getting it. It's one 
 of the best Need for speed games ever released. It's too bad that the more realistic physics didn't 
 catch on and EA took the series back into overly arcade territory with Hot pursuit 2 and need for 
 speed underground. This is a game to pick up if you ENJOY driving just for the sake of driving. 
 It's not a game that pretends to be "action packed fun" all the time and keep you occupied if you 
 have attention deficit disorder or patience issues. Since if you do the career mode in the beginning 
 the porsche cars you start out with are very slow compared to the later model porches you get towards 
 the middle of the game. Over-all the game just controls and feels very accurate. Definitely plays 
 great with a wheel or gamepad.
  
  You go through career mode starting at the earliest point in the porsche history timeline about 
 the 1950's or so, using ancient, somewhat ugly and "classic" looking cars. It really depends on 
 if you are a car buff or not if you like the "old" design cars they used to make back then. You 
 basically progress through the porsche history timeline racing missions in a somewhat linear fashion, 
 they usually have a couple other races you can pick and choose from the menu that you can do to 
 also advance forward as well. As you go through the game new cars will slowly become available 
 and you will be able to buy the ones you want and upgrade them with parts to make sure they control 
 and perform their best.
  
  The other part of the game is a series of mini-games really, in that you become a "pro test driver" 
 for posche and they have you do a series of drills and sometimes some interesting stunts with your 
 car. But for the most part it just serves as a drill for driving practice to learn how to control 
 your car to meet the mission requirements.
  
  My only real complaint about this game is the lack of variety in some of the tracks and that the 
 computer AI is inconsistent. You see it goes from somewhat dimwitted to very difficult to beat 
 due to it knowing all the shortcuts on some of the more difficult tracks, though you can adjust 
 the difficulty or limit the cars class in quick races. Also the multiplayer online mode where you 
 go to play against others no longer works, but you can play over LAN still.
  
  All in all this is one of the best games in the series if only EA would make another game like 
 this and add and fix up all the things that weren't in this game it could really renew the entire 
 series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheDarthvader
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 27, 2004 12:27 pm PT
Review:  How often do we see a good driving game come around? The Answer is: very few. All the driving games 
 that I have played, none of them even compare to this one.
  First of all, this game masters in the most important area: gameplay. It has an absolutly spectacular 
 gameplay. The suspension, the breaks, the skids, the handbrake all work like the real world. Above 
 all, all the 100 porches have their destinctive "feel". There is just something special about everycar.
 
  The graphics are splendid. This game is very easy on the system. The scenry, the reflections and 
 the geometry, all is professionaly done. This is the first game i have seen that doesnt have polygons 
 used as tyres.
  Every porche come with its different engine sound. The "Moby Dick" has the most releastic engine 
 sound i have ever heard. The music however is better turned off.
  I'll keep my review short and say what is simple: i recommend this game to anyone, any age, any 
 sex. No matter who you are, if u have a pc and have played one or two games, go and get this one! 
 This is one of those games that have actually been worked on unlike others that are just for the 
 money and relesed in a rush. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DirtyHarry26
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 9, 2004 12:21 am PT
Review:  So many cool features that I don't know whre to begin! Ok maybe on the cars. This game has all 
 the porsche models of every year. It even has every style possible for every model. A very informative 
 game on porsches. Eventhough many games have the "buy a car, fix it, sell it" feature, this game 
 does it the best. It maintains a realistic feel to it that I can hardly describe.
  
  The graphics however are not the best, even for that time period. The tracks we were racing on 
 were not very convincing. When you smashed into walls not much happened. That was dissapointing.
 
  
  But other then that this game is great! An unforgetable racing experince. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: afratnikov
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 3, 2004 10:22 am PT
Review:  NFS: Porsche Unleashed is a great racing game because it rewards skillful driving and lets you 
 drive exotic cars you always wanted to drive. NFS: Under Ground 2 does not require too much practice 
 -- the way to win is to get the best car and keep accelerating and never brake. Collin McRae Rally 
 games require a lot of skill, and I respect that series. However, Collin McRae Rally didn't offer 
 a good match against Computer Players because you usually just raced against the clock and not 
 opponent cars. NFS: Porsche Unleashed takes the realistic physics from Collin McRae Rally but puts 
 you in a fast car on a street. In NFS: PU you will have to brake before turns and shift down gears 
 before turns to keep up with "expert" level of computer players. Each race is reqarding because 
 the replay mode offers nice camera angles to enjoy your new lap record. 
  There are two compaign modes which require you to try out all the vehicles to advance. There are 
 over 50 cars and each is highly customizable with a lot of unpgrades. You can even change the car's 
 tire pressure. Even with similar characteristics, different cars handle differently so that you 
 will have a lot of variety when you play. Read the Gamespot review for more details on the game...
 
  
  NFS: PU is a great racing game, even by today's standards. If you want to get into racing games, 
 this is a good place to start since it is easy enough in the beginning and will become increasingly 
 difficult as you go through the compaign. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RustyShaklexord
Rating: 4.4
Date: Sep 26, 2004 1:26 am PT
Review:  This game is okay if you like good graphics and sound but the steering is awful! When I played 
 it I always crashed. I could never find the right settings for the steering. Because the steering 
 is so bad, it makes it nearly impossible to excel or buy new cars or get to other tracks. I tried 
 forever to perfect my steering skills and every single time I crashed. Here is another flaw in 
 the controllability: Whenever you are hit by another car, you are always knocked to the side of 
 the road and/or spin out of control! This again makes it extremely hard to advance at all! I would 
 seriously urge you to consider buying Midtown Madness instead of Need For Speed: Porsche Unleashed. 
 All in all, it is a waste of money. Only buy this game if you can find it for $5 or less. For That 
 price I'd buy anything! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Epicsoldier
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 25, 2004 1:47 am PT
Review:  I am a Porsche fan, and this was one game i was ever so happy to have, and yet i still play this 
 game to this day. It is amazing!, the graphics are so far past the time that this game was made 
 and yet it still seems to have a nice touch on todays comps. The single player gameplay is the 
 best in a racing game yet. It's addicting to, and really easy to waste hours and hours playing 
 at. You start off with some older cars, but you'll move up to the nice cars and also gain an ememy 
 that hated you sence day 1, but she didn't say nothing. This is just plainly a great game!. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
