-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Need for Speed III: Hot Pursuit
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/driving/needforspeed3hotpursuit/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 16, 1998
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.9
Critic Score: 8.5, 20 Review (s)
User Score: 8.6, 1,821 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Electronic Arts
Developer: EA Seattle
Genre: Racing
Date:     Sep 30, 1998

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Not only is the latest Need for Speed miles ahead of the last NFS game, but it approaches (and dare 
 I say surpasses?) , the best of the consoles in terms of sheer fun and speed. 

 I don't usually play racing games on the PC. Either they're pale imitations of the arcade and console 
 racers, or they're boring 50-lap simulations. I mean, why play Need for Speed II and Test Drive 
 4 on the PC when I can play Super GT in the arcade and Gran Turismo on the PlayStation? For ages, 
 I told friends that the PC had nothing on the arcade, even venerable classics like Daytona and 
 Sega Rally. Well, I think I'm going to be eating crow for the next few weeks... and loving it. 
 Not only is the latest Need for Speed miles ahead of the last NFS game, but it approaches (and 
 dare I say surpasses?) , the best of the consoles in terms of sheer fun and speed.  

 Need for Speed III is a great game. It has an exhilarating sense of speed, clean and beautiful graphics, 
 polished production values, and trackloads of unadulterated fun. In many ways, Need for Speed III 
 has that same addictive quality I found in Quake II, Starcraft, and Heroes of Might and Magic. 
 That's pretty celebrated company, but I don't think it's an unfounded categorization. Need for 
 Speed III has that same "just one more turn or just one more deathmatch" quality that the other 
 games have. And just like in those games, the action in Need for Speed III is so engrossing and 
 rewarding that the next time you come up for air, you'll find that two hours have whizzed by.  
 

 While Need for Speed III shares an addictive quality with those games, it has something of its own: 
 pure speed. This game is fast and fun. The frame rate is fast and incredibly clean. I've played 
 my fair share of PC and console racers where the pop-up was horrible, as cliffs and buildings would 
 suddenly appear out of thin air, many seconds after you should have seen them on the horizon. Whether 
 it's the smart track design or the beautiful engine, the bottom line is that I only saw one or 
 two instances of minor pop-up. And multiplayer is as fast and fun as the single-player experience. 
 The sound of your revving engine and the fast frame rate both combined to create the illusion of 
 breakneck speeds, although the replays didn't look quite as fast I would have liked.  

 Aside from the speed and addictive quality, Need for Speed III has the requisite list of features 
 that marketers like to put on boxes, journalists like to list, and consumers always look for. There 
 are many cars, with subtle differences, and the ability to tweak more than a few car qualities, 
 such as steering speed, aerodynamics, and suspension. And, surprisingly, the tweaks will affect 
 your car noticeably.  

 In classic Need for Speed fashion, there are more than a dozen supercars to race, including several 
 bonus cars that open up with sustained excellent race results or cheat codes. The range of cars 
 is a fascinating gallery of every car enthusiast's dream vehicles: Corvettes, Ferraris, Lamborghinis, 
 Porsches, Jaguars, Mercedes, and an Italdesign prototype car. There are also roughly ten tracks, 
 including the bonus track, encompassing several different environments and difficulty levels. You'll 
 race through a canyon, snowy mountain caps, urban utopia, and forests. You can race during nighttime 
 and in rain to add further to the track variety. Visibility takes a huge hit in either condition, 
 making races on the harder courses incredibly treacherous. Unfortunately, I didn't experience any 
 noticeable difference in driving under rain; the road didn't appear any slicker and handling was 
 pretty much consistent with perfect weapon. If there was a difference, it was too subtle for me 
 to notice.  

 The single-player game modes include a single race, knockoff (where you eliminate the last place 
 of each race) , tournament (where you race through the entire circuit for points) , and hot pursuit. 
 Hot pursuit is EA's answer to all the critics who lamented the loss of the cops in Need for Speed 
 II. You aren't only trying to outrace an opponent, but also escape the pursuing cops. Three tickets, 
 and you're out. Or alternatively, you can play the cop in pursuit. The radio chatter alerting you 
 to the cops' presence and their strategies (pursuit or roadblock) are nice touches.  

 The graphics in the game are pretty amazing. The reflection on the cars is outstanding, as is the 
 rain, and the leaves and dust that follow in your wake. The lighting is especially impressive during 
 the night and rain races. Best of all, everything, including the up to seven competitors, animating 
 background objects, and your rearview mirror, can be packed on screen with barely a hint of a performance 
 hit (OK, sometimes, it will slow down slightly, but not by much) . The production values on the 
 track briefings and the car gallery are also first-rate.  

 There are a few problems. For one, the dashboard doesn't light up at night, and there are no windshield 
 wipers at your disposal during rain. It's disappointing that there's no damage to your cars. I 
 understand that none of the car companies want to see their poor little vehicles hurt in this game, 
 but what's the excuse for not being able to dent the nonsupercars you crash into? And unlike in 
 the latest Sega arcade racers, the cars in Need for Speed III, while maintaining an effective illusion 
 of high-speed driving, sometimes appear too much like they are gliding on the road rather than 
 actually driving and hugging the road. And why not just open all the regular cars (not the bonus 
 cars) in hot pursuit, knockoff, and tournament mode? Still, it's a testament to the game's addictive 
 fun factor that when I was racing, none of these shortcomings ever bothered me. While the arcades 
 still have the edge in racing games, Need for Speed III goes a long way toward giving PC gamers 
 a real taste of exhilarating arcade speed and action.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (18 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: j19000
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 14, 2009 2:37 pm PT
Review:  Need For Speed III: Hot Pursuit is the third game in the Need For Speed franchise and was indeed 
 a major improvement over the previous two games.
  
  It concentrated on the elements of hardcore, realistic racing and this has successfully given me 
 what I had been wanting for a long time - a classic and memorable racing game that would very well 
 be with me for the rest of my life. 
  
  I'd like to add that even though this may not be as thrilling and awesome as it's Playstation counterpart, 
 the graphics and frame-rate in this are just a masterpiece, as well as the fact that on this version, 
 the Hot Pursuit mode allows for you to be the cop, even though I never really cared for it. You 
 can also hear the Police chatter about their business too which is what both versions of the next 
 game have, although despite the fact that the we now what the Police are up to, the PS version's 
 cops were better seeing as though they were less frustrating but more of a challenge as well. 
 
  
  Need For Speed III: Hot Pursuit introduces night, rainy and mirrored driving on both versions which 
 is a fantastic new feature. While the original allowed for you to take on morning, midday or evening 
 surroundings on closed circuits, this game takes it to the top of the hill adding more variety. 
 
  
  Now I move on to race modes, Single Race, Tournament, Knockout or Hot Pursuit. I like all race 
 modes on Need For Speed III, especially single race though where I could just select a car, pick 
 your color, and a new feature allows you to add in your own custom color, awesome. Like the last 
 game, I was able to choose if I wanted one other person with me, or a full grid of Al. Traffic 
 could be added in as well, but unfortunately, I was a little disappointed because you can't choose 
 how much traffic you wanted on the tracks, but on the Playstation you were either to select none, 
 minimum, moderate or maximum. Still, the availability of traffic is one of the things that makes 
 a solid racing game. Now I move on to Tournament mode. It plays very much like Need For Speed II 
 with a slight change. You could now either select Beginner or Advanced and two cars were to be 
 awarded for completing them -- one per Tournament. The Al is fairly easy to beat on Tournament, 
 but once I won the Jaguar XJR from the beginner and moved on to Expert, things became tricky when 
 Mirrored, night and weather modes were used on the tracks, sometimes all at the same time. Well, 
 I thoroughly enjoyed Tournament despite how hard it was for me to win on one of the desert tracks 
 when it was set to pitch black darkness. 
  
  Need For Speed III: Hot Pursuit features a disappointing number of tracks in my opinion. I didn't 
 really feel that way while playing the second game which featured eight, but in essence, there 
 are only four tracks to play while the other four are sloppy alternative routes of the first four. 
 With those tracks was also extra bonus track (empire city) making a total of 9 tracks and in which 
 5 of these tracks are in their own environments. But god, I remember the wonderful times I racing 
 on Hometown, my favorite track. Rocky Pass, Aquatica and Lost Canyons were also up there as being 
 superb courses.
  
  Knockout mode was rather fun, adding new depth and challenge to the game. The cars available were 
 only three -- disappointing but the expert challenge itself sent you running around touch courses 
 at night, in the rain and possibly mirrored. It was addictive, and still is. 
  
  And last but not least, the Hot Pursuit mode. I missed the cops on NFS2, and it was just awesome 
 to see them return but now running away from the cops is anything but easy, this time you didn't 
 just have one after you but maybe two or three at once with newly added road blocks and spike belts 
 to make it as challenging as possible, but it was fun. Most Need For Speed fans saw this particular 
 game as the ultimate Police challenge. I've had hours of fun running from the cops, it never bored 
 me. 
  
  One thing I found annoying was how a Police car would just come up the road in my direction like 
 a shot and crash into the front of my car, and then it was almost impossible to get away without 
 getting a speeding ticket. It also seemed highly unrealistic. Still, the Hot Pursuit mode is incredible 
 full of endless fun and I even got a laugh out of it. 
  Unfortunately, I found more flaws in the Hot Pursuit mode. This game introduced Police radio chatter 
 so you could hear what they were getting up to, (and this feature was not available on the PS1 
 version) but just when I criticize about the somewhat stupidity of the cops as they never drove 
 beside me and bumped me. Unlike the challenging PS1 edition without the Police chatter, running 
 away from the cops was far too easy, and if you ever got caught, that was because of the annoying 
 glitches when crashing into up coming traffic when you could not get out unless you reseted your 
 car, so in essence, I was pissed off whenever I got ticketed only because I crashed into a cop 
 car and couldn't get out (you can on the PS version so that was more realistic) . The other way 
 to get caught of course is to run over a spike strip and half the time the strips were half way 
 off the road making it a joke. Roadblock's were the same, most of the time the one of the two Police 
 cars would be off the road blocking -- I mean, what the hell is that all about? In essence, dodging 
 the Police on this game is very easy and I would only get slipped if I did something stupid like 
 crash into the traffic where a glitch would not allow me to escape or run over a spike belt. Lastly, 
 the PS1 version is more realistic on the ticketing approach. No way would I be doing an eight lap 
 race around Hometown and get ticketed eight times, in the real world it's one or two warnings then 
 off to jail. It's also a pain to discover more un-realism where I could race through three laps 
 without getting caught and then it would still be nine catches before I was arrested. The PS1 version 
 is better again for something -- even if I hadn't been pulled over for almost an entire race and 
 then I suddenly got caught, I'd be arrested automatically. 
  
  So, all in all, I'm not saying the new Hot Pursuit mode is bad, but I will be honest here and agree 
 that it is totally unrealistic full of flaws. Still, I love hearing the Police chatter their business 
 and the fun I got out of it. 
  
  Need For Speed III offers endless options that will give you what you want in the way of changing 
 controlling configuration, the heads up display, the screen resolution or (like the PS version) 
 the audio which allows you to choose any song for a race, not just the track default and it even 
 allows for you to fine tune your vehicle before going out onto the race track. Still, it is nowhere 
 presenting a simulation mode. 
  
  Now, you can't have a great game without downsides or minor problems. Need For Speed III: Hot Pursuit 
 (PC) actually has many flaws, like for instance, the Playstation version offers full detail of 
 the tracks like background mountains or outer forests, and the cars should I daresay look more 
 realistic as well so I was disappointed with the lack of that detail on the PC version. Also, some 
 have complained about the lack of realism in car movement such as while on the race track, cars 
 are looking as though they're floating on the tracks like UFO machines. I can sort of see where 
 these criticisms are coming from because I was also curious as to why the roads seem fat and broad, 
 broader than they should be which makes it look as though I'm driving at about 50 Km/h while I'm 
 really traveling at 80Km/h (estimate) . It isn't a big issue, but these were some of the things 
 that made the Playstation edition look more attractive. Really, it wasn't really a bid deal as 
 such.
  
  
  
  Gameplay: (7.5/10 )
  
  
  Need For Speed III: Hot Pursuit surely did made me feel as though I was behind the wheel of a solid 
 racing car driving into the midst while running away from cops who strongly intend on making sure 
 us speeders are placed where we belong -- behind bars. While driving, I was amazed with how many 
 camera views were available, including an inside dashboard view providing an even more thrilling 
 experience. Now even though I've said this before, the car movement along the roads did look rather 
 odd because you looked as though the cars were floating like UFO's. 
  Now I move onto one of this game's largest disappointments, the steering engine. It felt as though 
 it was situated somewhere between arcade and simulation and it felt like broad beginner turning 
 each time. The Playstation version had no problems with this, but was in fact next to being perfect. 
 Still, it took me a long time to get the hang of the steering on this, and I'm still slightly struggling 
 to maintain good driving without crashing into the traffic which poses another downside: If I crash 
 into traffic or a Police car there is pretty much no way for you to get out of it unless you reset 
 the car. A very annoying motion if I say myself. There is also another issue, totally unrealistic 
 crashing. Having no car damage on both versions didn't really have an effect on me, but the crashing 
 scenes were not acceptable. You'd go flying into the air, and even then it felt un-real, and the 
 same applies crashing into a Police car. You can't escape and you automatically receive a fine. 
 I was also let down by how I'd be traveling at 200Km/h but it would feel as though I was driving 
 at 100Km/h. The Playstation version had no problem with speed motion either. 
  
  So, in essence, all of Need For Speed III's problems are related to gameplay, but the disappointments 
 here weren't bad enough to not be accepted. It is an impressive game with decent gameplay. 
  
  
  Graphics: (9.5/10)
  
  
  Unlike the Playstation version, the graphics pose to be something 
 truly inspiring and unforgettable. I just felt the amazing sense of the graphics during my first 
 ever wet race on Hometown. The water just gushing behind the car or the mud spraying as I drove 
 over it or finally, the dirt actually landing on your windscreen and blocking out a part of the 
 screen for a period of time. Now I move on to the frame-rate - Awesome. It felt real and amazing. 
 I'll never forget that aspect of this game. Simply, for it's time, the PC version of Need For Speed 
 III: Hot Pursuit has superb graphics and awesome frame-rate. No more need be said... Except that 
 this is my favorite aspect of playing this game. Totally amazing and realistic. This is what surpassed 
 the PS version. 
  
  Sound: (9.0/10) 
  
  
  Need For Speed III: Hot Pursuit, like the predecessors features a mixture of rock and Techno music. 
 The soundtrack in both versions of NFS3 is superior to the last two games. Romolo Di Prisco has 
 composed some brilliant techno music for all races while Saki Kaskas and a various number of other 
 artists have composed this games rock music. 
  The sound is just as realistic as the PS version was. Crashing into walls, Police sirens, etc etc 
 all represent beauty for it's realism. Nothing to be disappointed about here. 
  
  Value: (8.0/10) 
  
  
  I loved this game (and I still do) . NFS3 on PC has indeed proved to 
 me to be one of the only racing games that is actually successful on PC. It's full of epicness 
 and awesomeness. But putting aside the upsides, the negatives from me about this game were the 
 lack of realism in car movement and probably the look of cars looking as if they're floating on 
 thin air. Other issues are based on the lack of depth in the track design which the PS version 
 had as well -- not enough tracks and four of them just repeating other tracks but with alternative 
 routes. I hated how the Police come from ahead of you like a shot and crash into you, as soon as 
 that occurred, I was fined. Nevertheless, it is a very great game and is good value. 
  
  Overall (8.0/10 "Impressive") 
  
  
  So, Need For Speed III: Hot Pursuit (PC) is one to never 
 forget and deserves a place in your PC collection. Comparing the two versions together for similarities 
 and differences, superior and inferior was very close. I mean downloading cars online is great 
 (this version) but in the end it all comes down to gameplay in that particular game -- what did 
 it already offer? Thus, Need For Speed III is the best Need For Speed out of the first three and 
 shows every NFS fan why you should play this series. But although few of the gameplay problems 
 were a disappointment to me, this game was extremely flawed and lost a great number of points for 
 this, and it has effected it's lasting appeal to me. Still a great racer, and it certainly deserves 
 a place in your collection. But if you want my advice and your a gamer who already likes what's 
 inside a game without having to add anything by cheat, then go for the Playstation version. The 
 only downside on that were the graphics and lack of cars. 
  
  Long live Hot Pursuit! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: geniustiong
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 21, 2008 9:03 am PT
Review:  Have you ever dreamed of being chased by the local PD in a fast car along with other racers? If 
 you have, then this is the game for you. Now i'm not gonna waste my time to write a whole review 
 here because it's already good enough. I remember when i was 5 i picked up a copy of this game 
 and my first impression was: Very good. Yes yes, the cars are very few and the tracks too but FACE 
 IT, this is an old game. So far, very few games have been able to beat this one. Yes yes, you get 
 all that cop chasing in Most Wanted & Carbon and Hot Pursuit II but the old fun is missing from 
 there. I mean, look at those nice tracks the original Hot Pursuit featured. And those cops are 
 more realistic and tougher than it's sequel and boy your car can catch fire. Kids, if you're reading 
 this, that's why you don't play with fire. I still blame Electronic Arts for getting us into this 
 mess-up Prostreet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aschuhart
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 14, 2008 4:56 am PT
Review:  Need for Speed III: Hot Pursuit is an outstanding racing arcade game that shows that you don't 
 need realism or physics to make a driving game FUN! Need for Speed III came out after the first 
 Gran Turismo game on playstation was released and that of course was a blockbuster for the simple 
 fact that it added highly realistic physics and made it an all out simulation. Need for Speed III 
 is purely arcade and FUN instead of relying on the realism that was the craze at the time. The 
 cars are detailed beautifully and new cars were also available for download from EA's website. 
 Later on, the mod community made a TON of new cars for free download that just added even more 
 fun into this game. 
  
  The basis for the game is quite simple. You start a road track race with other opponents and try 
 your best to win. Along the way you'll pass speed traps in which you have to out run the cops however, 
 this isn't always an easy thing to do. They can deploy spike strips ahead of your position and 
 use other sneaky tactics. ALSO you can play AS the cops can have a certain quota of tickets you 
 have to write before the race is over and this mode is equally as fun!! 
  
  The multiplayer aspect of the game is also a great fun because you have your classic head to head 
 AND a co op mode AS cops so you actually get to work as a team to bring speeders to justice!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ckat609
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 27, 2007 1:50 pm PT
Review:  I remember getting this game and how I couldn't stop drooling over the graphics. I mean, this simply 
 was THE racer to beat.
  
  I've had my share of racing games. I date back to Test Drive, yes, the 80s, and I haven't been 
 able to find a decent racer since then. I've played all of the NFSs and their special editions 
 and this one is simply the best. I mean, all of them have had their pros and cons but this one 
 had it all.
  
  I love the fact that you could race these dream cars that I couldn't/haven't/will ever be able 
 to afford... not even in two life times :o (. Taking these dream machines up and down mountains 
 of snow, through valleys or small fictional towns at blazing speeds was wonderful.
  
  We were also able to get cops back in the game!!! They weren't that tough but managed to get your 
 attention and if you got distracted for a little while, they would end up taking you in.
  
  Anyway... I ended up reviewing this game almost 10 years after it came out as a desperate cry to 
 EA to bring back the old NFS. I mean, this pimpin' your ride stuff was cool at first but maaaaan, 
 it got old a while ago. What ever happened to those dream machines and those beautiful exotic tracks? 
 PLEASE give me old-school NFS back!!!! Oh, and bring back ghost mode! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stingray-Man
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 21, 2007 9:29 am PT
Review:  Hot pursuit is what makes this game different and great. Yes driver and a few other games entail 
 cop chases, but this is the game that made them famous, and gave them a purpose. Everyone wants 
 to know what it would be like to try to drive a car that is fast enough to escape the police, but 
 most of us are not stupid enough to try this in real life. I have a replay video where I come flying 
 over a blind hill and just on the other side is a roadblock which I fly over just barely clearing 
 it. A pursuit police car comes flying behind me over the same roadblock and smashes me off the 
 road and I spin in a 180 and slide accross the finish line just by momentum from the crash. I have 
 another video on the most difficult track where a cop is harrassing me and bumping me on corners 
 to try to get me off the road, and over the hill comes another cop at us head on. At the last second 
 I slam the cop with my Italian prototype Schigera and force him into a head on collision with the 
 other cop and I go driving into the sunset. Lol. This game has some of the best memories for me 
 in gaming. It was the game that addicted me to the racing genre. I play every genre of gaming, 
 but racing is now my favorite. GRAPHICS: The graphics are still decent when all the highest settings 
 are used, shading, reflection, highest pixils setting, etc. and this game was marked down to 19.99 
 in 1999 when I bought it. I love the special affects for the year 1999, with rain, dirt, dust and 
 flying sparks. This was the beginning of these types of realistic graphics. I have a 2gig, cerleron 
 processor with an outdated video card (G-force 440) that still can barely run this with a good 
 frame rate when I turn it all on. Usuable headlights, which you can switch on and off at anytime 
 during a race as well add to graphics. This game was made to stay in your collection a while if 
 you will give it a try.
  
  GAMEPLAY: 8 years later it is still the best hotpursuit game out there, bar none. I like Most Wanted, 
 Driver, Highstakes, but the original had the perfect level of challenge, that most of the others 
 lack. The cops are tough and mean, but you can get away with fast cars or if you drive like a pro. 
 It made me feel like I was in an old Smokey and the Bandit movie. The Car Selection is decent for 
 the time, but the cars drive more realistically in this version than in later NFS versions. Just 
 try getting out of a snow bank or pulling an E-Brake 180. You have to have skill to drive in this 
 game, and succeed. If you are looking for a more casual racing game without such demanding focus 
 required, try NFS: Underground, or Midnight Club 3, both good games but more centered around fun, 
 aesthetically pleasing graphics and building custom cars than on intense and difficult driving. 
 Being able to chase down your friend in a police car is another fun game within this game. This 
 is only one of the many great fun modes which include, Championship Tournament (Circuit with points) , 
 Knockout, QuickRace, Time Attack, and Hotpursuit.
  
  Cars: Cars from 3 or 4 classes starting with The Jaguar XK-8, Astin Martin and Mercedes SL500 in 
 C-Class, the Corvette ZR-1 or GrandSport?, and a Ferrari testerossa? and a Lambrogini Countach 
 in B-Class. Next was the Italdesigned Schigera, the Lambrogini Diabolo and the Ferrari Marranello 
 in A Class. Some amazing cars to unlock are the pursuit corvette, El Nino , pursuit El Nino, and 
 the Jaguire XJR-15 which flies and has great handling. There are more cars, to unlock than this 
 and they come in great colors and you can even customize their color. They also, come with a video 
 presentation on the history of the car, its make even including the real interior, exterior and 
 numerous real life photos. Cars can be tuned in a variety of ways in typical NFS fashion with sliding 
 bars to adjust things like traction, Downforce, Gear Ratio, and more.
  
  UBLOCKABLES: I like the game most because of the hot pursuit mode but the other modes are worth 
 doing, fun and extremely competitive on their own merrit. However, they also unlock half of the 
 cars in the game, and the Best track in the game.
  
  NFS III: HotPursuit is a great game that should not be overlooked even in todays, market especially 
 for the PC gamer. The PS1 version of this game is decent but not as good. I would give it an 8.2 
 while the PC version is about a 9.4 due to better physics engine for graphics, traction realities, 
 and playable options. I have never played the PS2 Hotpursuit games, but do have NFS: Most Wanted 
 and Underground. This is also considerably better than NFS: HighStakes for PS1 which I rate a 7.6 
 due ot frame rate problems, driveability of cars and complexity of menus. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agturboninja
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 7, 2007 5:22 pm PT
Review:  Need For Speed III Hot Pursuit is the best NFS game I have played. Underground and Most Wanted 
 are fun, but there is something about 3 which makes it amazing. Only 9 tracks and 15+ cars, but 
 its a great game. The speed, and the cheats to even go faster, driving on the 1st track backwards 
 to jump over the bridge, the cops taking to you when you get a ticket. Night and day driving, something 
 that is in one game but not the other, NFS's which sucked. MOST Wanted always sunny no light and 
 vice versa for Underground. Need For Speed 3 had a lot of variety in tracks. EA can make 20 more 
 NFS and none of them would compare to 3. This is so far the best racing game on computer I have 
 ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gta11
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 13, 2006 12:16 pm PT
Review:  Need For Speed III Hot Pursuit For PC.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   GOOD : Good In Car Graphics Of The 
 Dashboard, Gameplay Is Good, Saving Replays Was One Of The Greatest Moments Of My Gaming And Funniest, 
 The Levels Are The Best I've Ever Seen In A Racing Game.
  ===========================================================
  THE BAD : Graphics Could Have Been 
 Much Better, Sound Could Have Been Better.
  
  
  
  
  First off i must say, me and my Best Friend Shelton used to have a blast playing this game, The 
 replays were always the funniest thing ever, just thinking about doing stunty jumps into cars is 
 funny. Thats why i'm giving this game a 10 in tilt.
  
  When the first Need For Speed came out, I wasn't that big a fan of racing games. After a while, 
 when my friend told me about Need for Speed II SE, and how great a game it was, I immediately purchased 
 it a became a fan of the legendary Need For Speed series. Since then I have been buying almost 
 every Need For Speed game for one console or the other. And I have to say, even when great games 
 like Midnight Club 3 and Need For Speed Most Wanted have come out, NFS 3 remains timeless in it's 
 appeal. Gameplay : Every third game (in number) of the NFS series has police. First it was NFS 
 3 HP, then HP2, then Most Wanted. These 3 games, in my opinion are the best of the NFS series. 
 There are four main game modes in this game, Single Race, Knockout, Tournament, and Hot Pursuit. 
 Single Race is just select car, track, no. of opponents and go! Knockout is the same from NFS 2 
 SE, it's a tournament spanning all of the tracks in which the car which finishes last gets eliminated. 
 Tournament is (duh) a tournament. You get points depending on your position in the races, and the 
 more the points, the more the cars you unlock (and by the way, there is a huge number of cars. 
 You can also download cars from the net.) The best mode in my opinion is hot pursuit. You can be 
 the cop (you can download or unlock different cop cars) or the bad guy. If you're the cop, then 
 you have to catch the bad guys. You can call other cars for a roadblock, or you can release a spike 
 strip. If you're the bad guy then you're supposed to run from the cops and their obstacles. There's 
 also 2-player splitscreen. The controls are very, very simple.
  
  Graphics : The graphics are 3D, and are quite good for their time. The cars look very realistic. 
 The tracks are amazing and scenic. They range from typical rural areas to a bustling metropolitan 
 utopia! Sure, you need a powerful PC to enjoy the game to it's maximum power, but who doesn't have 
 those nowadays? Damn, you're car can even catch fire! Everything makes good use of 3dfx.
  
  Sound : Electronic Arts stressed on sound. A blind guy can tell you what car you're driving, because 
 each car has a unique sound. The police sounds will make you feel that a true chase is going on 
 outside. Crashing, skidding and other misc. sounds are great, too.
  
  The Hot Pursuit and Knockout modes will keep you busy. I have been playing this game for 5 years 
 now, I mostly download and test cars from the net, or do a free drive in Atlantica (my favorite 
 track) , without any opponents. Sure there are better current-gen games out there, but this is timeless 
 in it's appeal. Splitscreen and online play will boost your replay value. Need for Speed III: Hot 
 Pursuit, puts great gameplay, realistic graphics, good sound effects into one game. This game is 
 flawless. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: titanic100
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 3, 2006 6:22 am PT
Review:  Ok I know this game is old but it is fun to play if any one else likes a chase by the cops and 
 they only want to be on a track going through a town then get this game I have given it a rating 
 of 9.2 And this would pass to go on my PC If you like chases then buy this game it is very cheap 
 and it is also in offers in game 3 games for &pound;30 or &pound;10 I can not remember I is a good 
 game for it age and the graphics are amazing and also the fast cars In this game you can also be 
 the cop and arrest the other drivers
  
  If you want a good chase then buy this game I would recommend it to anyone who likes a good chase 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hitman650
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 22, 2006 10:25 pm PT
Review:  When I bought Hot Putrsuit, I was entering the videogame world and I was still very clumsy when 
 it came to game controls. Despite my clumsiness and a lack of proper racing knowledge (Powersliding, 
 the P. I. T maneuver, etc.) , the game was very easy to pick up and play, not to mention highly enjoyable. 
 There were only 6 controls that you needed to know how to use (8 if you use a manual transmission) . 
 Having said this, I can safely say simple controls are one of this game's features. Another good 
 part of this game is the graphics. While they may not even come close to having good graphics by 
 today's standards, I'd say that they were the best graphics of '98 availabe. Unlike most games 
 at the time, shadows and reflections did not look cheesy like they did in most games of the time. 
 Another great feature is all of the different cars. There are plenty of different classes and brands 
 of cars to choose from including Lamborghini and Ferarri as well as a fantasy car called El Nino. The 
 A. I. in this game is also excellent. One final good part of Hot Pursuit is the A. I. In this game, 
 the A. I. actually makes an effort to try and slow you down or spin you out (this includes the cops) . 
 That aside, there are some problems with this game. One problem is the traffic A. I. The traffic 
 A. I. unlike the opponent A. I., is stupid, No matter how much you honk your horn or how close you 
 get, the traffic simply idles along like nothing is happening. Also, the "be the cop" mode (it's 
 part of Hot Pursuit mode) has a problem in that you get no backup and you're expected to nail all 
 of the racers before they finish however many laps you set the race for.
  While Hot Pursuit may have its flaws, it is still an excellent game no matter how good or bad you 
 are at racing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: puremage1209
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 24, 2006 5:44 pm PT
Review:  A great game that pumps out endless supplies of fun and entertainment. In that game, you outrun 
 cops, battle your rivals in one-on-one races, unlock cars, participate in street events, and much 
 more. Although it says it has great graphics, dont believe it. It has very poor graphics, the main 
 one is the dirt kicked up while you drive your car. The game offeres a challange and requires concentration 
 to listen to the cops talk about where the have set up their road block, and where the have placed 
 the spike strip and what side of the road it is on. The sound is crystal clear and sharp for a 
 game that came out that long ago. I would recomend picking up a copy, even if you are doubtful 
 about the game. If you dont like it, by golly you will sure miss the 10 dollars you wasted! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fenix1022
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 4, 2006 8:55 am PT
Review:  If you are looking for a hot racing experience for the PC, here is your option. N4S: HP provides 
 a dynamic experience with many positives that help it compete with the console racing games.
  
  It is always difficult to compare the difference of most games when you switch between PC and 
 console, but (like other sports, alternative sports, and nonsports) racing seems to be better on 
 the consoles. PC may usually have the advantage with upgrades and graphics, but it usually fails 
 in comparison otherwise. HP allows for the PC to have a more dynamic racing simulation with great 
 features and great cars.
  
  The cars are crisp and clean, but you unfortunately don't see any damage when you rough them up 
 a bit. It would be nice to see dings after bumping another car or completely flipping over after 
 slamming into a wall.
  
  The soundtrack is nice, but that is normal with sport-type games.
  
  The simulations are unlike 
 the usual PC racing game where you race for 30 laps of semi-calm environments. Instead, you have 
 high speed chases and fast, sleek looking cars. I would recommend this one, though it is still 
 not Gran Turismo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrackpotGANJ
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 31, 2006 4:25 am PT
Review:  The game is the best in the serious but lacks alot. First the graphics arnt the best. Next is the 
 fact that they give you crap for cars and maps. Plus the maps are horable. The cops are way to 
 easilly out ran and plus they usaully give you 3 warnings anyway so if you get arrested you either 
 suck at racing or your trying to get caught. Also they give you no free roaming or testing ability 
 to test and see how fast the cats can get. I dont know what else to say about this game except 
 for dont buy it unless you under the age of 7. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sudantha8527
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 23, 2006 7:50 pm PT
Review:  Wow, I can still remember the first time I raced with those cops on my back..
  
  GOOD: The good are the graphics are really cool and improved a lot since Need For Speed 2. Another 
 good thing is the aplit screen which is awesome mw and my cousin spent hours racing each other 
 as well as chasing each other as a cop.
  
  BAD: Well there is really not so much of bad the cops are some times dumb and they lose you the 
 AI is not so good as the present Need for Speed Most Wanted. The sounds aren't so good. But for 
 a game of the time I guess they're ok..
  
  Overall split screen racing was at the top of it's peek I mean that was what was popular amongst 
 my friends rather tham playing the campaign in the game... Reall cool game that has still left 
 it's prints in Need for Speed Most Wanted. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jascoolo
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 2, 2006 3:10 am PT
Review:  This game is a legend.. Poor racing pc players didn't have a long offer... NFS: HP delivers just 
 a plain of fun.. I haven't seen now so well prepared tracks.. This is a great adventage of NFS.. 
 but what made that game so popular ??? Pursuit ... that's the meaning of being chasin'... When 
 you got a friend (or foe :D) you should try "police and criminal play".. Put a stripe on the road 
 and wait.. This is one the most exicting moment.. PUFFF !!! and the wheels are riddle.. But this 
 game also has one disadventage .. there is no dodge viper !!!! The racing game without dodge viper 
 is not a game !!! (except test drive :) ) ... New NFS are good but no so innovativ like that one... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RollNpc
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 27, 2005 3:46 pm PT
Review:  This game is a classic in every since of the word. It combines decent graphics, good controls, 
 fast cars, and the highway patrol trying to chase you down. I first found this game back in the 
 late 90s when it was full price and have since revisited it. I can and have spent hours playing 
 this game. 
  
  The graphics are defiantly outdated but thats fine, its part of the nostalgia of the game! I gave 
 up slowing down to the speed limit to avoid getting pulled over but heck with that, just out run 
 them, or crash them out.
  
  I was glad to dig out this game and blow off the dust for the revisit. A good time killer when 
 at work or home when you may be interrupted at any moment. Just through it is and drive a bit!
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Epicsoldier
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 7, 2004 2:42 pm PT
Review:  So many hours into this game... and it was fun :) :) :) :) :) :) , this game has put the series where 
 it is now, and it has done a pretty good job of it to. There are alot of cars, and the tracks are 
 very creative and fun to race on. The cars are good to, not no dull boring slow cars :) :) , the 
 mutliplayer is done good to, and the fun of racing away from the cops is fun fun, the graphics 
 are done good, and the music fits the game. This is improved over the Need for speed 2 SE game 
 alot. I don't think that there is anything that this game could have more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Orly23
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 2, 2004 2:09 pm PT
Review:  If the only Need for Speed title that you've ever played is Need for Speed Underground then you 
 might thing that this is a total different franchise. The fact is that Need for Speed 3: Hot Pursuit 
 is very different from it's better known counterpart. What made the game so different is the fact 
 that in NFS3 there is vehicular damage so the more you wreck the harder it is to drive. For its 
 time, this game was very similar to other racing games. You competed mostly against the CPU and 
 the game was based on winning tournaments and getting better cars. What made Hot Pursuit so unique 
 was the mode where you tried to getaway from the cops. This is what made the game for me. How long 
 could you evade the road blocks, spike strips and the constant pursuit of police vehicles. When 
 this would get old and boring then you could switch sides and play as the cops trying to stop the 
 speeding maniacs. Not until GTA3, was there a game that gave you the ability to this. The graphics 
 were supperb for its time, it was a bit awquard to use the keyboard for racing but after a while 
 it was second nature. Great piece for any racer's collections. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gear-Box
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 20, 2003 4:48 pm PT
Review:  Need for Speed 3: Hot Pursuit is easily the worst game I have seen in my life. I don't even know 
 if it should be called a game. The plot? Nothing. You just race around tracks or try to capture 
 cars as the fuzz over and over. VERY REPETITIVE. While you can view cars and their specifications 
 via a talking guide, this gets extremely boring because you always have the same thing being heard. 
 It would have been nice to hear a few new things in that part. The graphics? Terrible. Cars comprised 
 of blocks of pixilated mush and environments that look like paper are just of the few graphical 
 problems. The cars have square smoke coming out of their tires when you burn rubber!!! The sound 
 is just horrendous, with some voices being so foggy and ear-shattering that you have to play the 
 game with "mute" on. There is absolutly no replay value, as there is no reason to even play this 
 "game" at all. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
