-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Need for Speed Underground
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/driving/nfsunderground/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 21, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 8.2, 30 Review (s)
User Score: 8.5, 3,587 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Electronic Arts
Genre: GT / Street Racing
Date:     Nov 17, 2003
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Import racing fans should definitely check out Need for Speed Underground. 

  It's hard to talk about an import car racing game without mentioning the movie  The Fast and the 
 Furious . The movie put as much of a spotlight on tricked-out cars as it did on its cast, and the 
 resulting effect caused a huge surge of interest in the import racing scene. In the wake of the 
 film, a number of other properties have risen up to try to claim a piece of the lucrative scene 
 as its own. Need for Speed Underground is EA's attempt to get involved, and it's mostly a success. 

           Could this be the 10-second car you've been looking for?     

  A driving game is only as good as its handling and physics model. In this respect, Need for Speed 
 Underground does a pretty great job, though it's by no means a realistic simulation -- nor is it 
 trying to be. It's definitely been designed with accessibility in mind rather than focusing on 
 realistic simulation aspects. In fact, the game probably controls best with an analog, console-style 
 gamepad. As a result, the game is quite easy to pick up and play, though some portions require 
 a little more finesse than others. Driving with finesse earns you style points in a system similar 
 to the one found in the Project Gotham Racing series for the Xbox, though this one is much more 
 lenient and awards points for the simple acts of powersliding, drafting, and catching air. Style 
 points accumulate regardless of the mode you're playing in, and you can unlock rewards each time 
 the style points meter is filled.  

  Need for Speed Underground contains a decent-sized car roster. Right off the bat you'll find a 
 Honda Civic, which is one of the more popular rides in the scene. But the inventory doesn't stop 
 there. You'll also find a VW Golf, Acura Integra, Toyota Supra, S2000, Ford Focus, Dodge Neon, 
 Mazda Miata, and a few more. Though the different cars are rated in handling, acceleration, and 
 top speed, in practice the cars don't drive all that differently, especially once you've purchased 
 some upgrades in the career mode.  

  The import racing scene is heavy on modifying cars with aftermarket parts, and Need for Speed Underground 
 duplicates this aspect pretty well. The car upgrades are broken down into visual and performance 
 upgrades. Performance upgrades come in multiple levels and must be unlocked before you can purchase 
 them. These upgrades include turbocharge, better engines, weight reduction, enhanced braking, computer-chip 
 tuning, nitrous oxide boosts, and so on. The game contains a lot of actual aftermarket brands for 
 its parts, so when you purchase an upgrade, you'll have limited control over which brands you're 
 buying, but the brand makes no difference -- all the brand packages perform equally well.  

  The visual upgrades also have a positive effect on your car. Purchasing spoilers, body kits, replacement 
 hoods, neons, headlights, taillights, or window tinting for your car, or making other major changes 
 to your car's appearance, increases your reputation rating. As your rating gets higher, the multiplier 
 bonus you get on your style points increases, which lets you unlock other rewards more quickly. 

  The main reward you get for your style point total is access to vinyl stickers for your car. They 
 start out simple, such as racing stripes and designs, but you can eventually put brand stickers 
 from many different aftermarket part and stereo makers all over your car.  

  The tracks in Need for Speed Underground are well designed, but even though there are well over 
 20 different tracks in the game, they get pretty repetitive. The game uses the old trick of opening 
 up or closing certain pathways to reconfigure certain sections of a track while using the same 
 sections over and over again. Because of this, you really have to pay attention to your map as 
 you drive to make sure you're prepared to take the right path. The game offers what appears to 
 be a large city, but going off the track will simply reset your car back onto the proper street. 

  Need for Speed Underground contains a good variety of different races that help keep the action 
 varied, though a lack of unique tracks keeps most races from feeling different from one another. 
 Circuit racing, standard one-shot runs, and knockout-style circuits are all included, and all offer 
 slightly different takes on the plain old race, and drag racing and drift racing change things 
 up nicely. While the initial thought of drag racing -- racing in a straight line -- may sound pretty 
 boring, the gameplay is quite different here. The steering gets reduced to slot-car-like lane-change 
 control, and your main focus is on shifting properly. A clear RPM meter is displayed on the left 
 side of the screen, and indicators instruct you when to shift. The early drag races are simple, 
 clear races. But the later tracks throw traffic and other obstacles in the mix, forcing you to 
 worry about lane position as much as you worry about shifting.  

  Drift racing puts you alone on a short, wide track. Time means nothing here. Instead, you'll be 
 graded on how well you can powerslide around turns. Proper use of the emergency brake is key here, 
 though learning how to drift properly isn't very difficult at all. It isn't as exciting as the 
 drag racing, but it makes for a nice change of pace.  

           The main mode features more than 100 different races, but you'll see the same tracks time 
 and time again.     

  The career mode is called "go underground," and it lets you engage in all of the game's race types 
 in its 111 races. Since the game certainly doesn't contain 111 different track layouts, you'll 
 be spending a ton of time racing the same stretches of road, forward and backward. This can make 
 the mode a little tedious, but this is the only way to make money to spend on car upgrades. Each 
 race comes in three different difficulty settings, and you'll earn different amounts of money depending 
 on which difficulty you select. Being able to select this from race to race is nice, because it 
 lets you make the difficult races easier, ensuring that you progress pretty steadily. That said, 
 the game isn't terribly challenging on its normal setting, so anyone with a shred of driving game 
 skill will probably want to select the hard setting, as it manages to put up a decent challenge 
 most of the time.     

  Go underground also gives you a few cutscenes, which are meant to give some meaning to your progression 
 by having a pretty bad-looking polygonal woman tell you about your performance, but these are chock-full 
 of really lame, fake attitude and come across as incredibly hokey.         The heavy use of motion 
 blur makes the games look faster than they really are.     

  The console versions of Need for Speed Underground allow you to get into two-player races via a 
 split-screen, which works reasonably well. However, the PC and PlayStation 2 versions of the game 
 have online play, which includes head-to-head challenges as well as four-player races. Additionally, 
 you can actually pit PC players against PS2 players, which is a neat inclusion. Online rankings 
 are a factor of your reputation, which increases and decreases as you win and lose races. If you 
 don't feel like putting your good name on the line, you can also drive in unranked races. The online 
 play works pretty well, though lag does manifest itself as cars that sort of skip around the track. 

  Need for Speed Underground's coolest aspect is probably its graphics. The console versions of the 
 game make use of a pretty dramatic motion-blur effect that gives the streets a grimy, realistic 
 look. The blur also gives you a pretty good feeling of speed. The streets are almost constantly 
 wet, giving them plenty of opportunity to show off their reflectiveness. The cars are also supershiny 
 and reflective, though the reflection doesn't update often enough in the console versions of the 
 game, which makes the reflections look a little choppy. The frame rate also tends to take a few 
 dives in all the console versions, and this, combined with the constant motion blur, makes some 
 parts of Need for Speed Underground look really surreal. The PC version of the game starts out 
 with the motion blur disabled. You can enable it, of course, but it never gets as heavy -- or as 
 cool-looking -- as in the console versions, and the PC version looks a little too clean as a result. 
 The car models all look pretty accurate, and the additional body kits, spoilers, rims, and other 
 visual add-ons look good. Overall, each version of Need for Speed Underground looks great, though 
 the Xbox version is definitely the best looking of the bunch by making good use of the motion-blur 
 effects while still running at a mostly smooth frame rate. The sounds of racing are well done in 
 Need for Speed Underground. Tire squeals, engine noises, and exhaust notes all come across properly 
 and about as realistically as you'd expect. You'll also notice some great but subtle things, such 
 as the sounds of a turbocharged motor versus a standard motor. There is a lengthy soundtrack with 
 songs from artists such as Nate Dogg, Lil' Jon and the Eastside Boys, Petey Pablo, Rob Zombie, 
 and The Crystal Method. The Xbox version lacks custom soundtrack support, which is disappointing, 
 but the soundtrack definitely fits the theme of the game and has a decent amount of variety.  

 
          In the world of Need for Speed Underground, the streets are always wet and the cars are 
 always shiny.     

  Need for Speed Underground is great. With just a bit more variety to its tracks and a slightly 
 better career mode, it definitely could have been better, but it has great graphics, solid sound, 
 and the sort of easy learning curve that makes it a driving game that anyone can excel at. Online 
 play gives the PC and PlayStation 2 versions of Need for Speed Underground an edge over the other 
 versions. Import racing fans will also get an additional kick out of the car customization aspect, 
 which is more faithful than in other games that have attempted to mimic the same style of street 
 racing. Race fans should definitely check out Need for Speed Underground.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (69 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: dar4iks
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 26, 2009 9:33 am PT
Review:  Um I didnt play this game much becuz I had UG2 what a NFS fan could wish but its older and graphics 
 are not what I expected and need for speed showed that they are in next level of need for speed 
 evolution :) but after 4 or 5 yrs I was wrong about that PS rouind all nfs fun but thats another 
 rewiev lets get back to UG1
  It has a good storyline like all need for speed series from this game :) Car controls are better
 
  Um tuning is great like all the UG series and cars in car dealer shops are the best quality :)
 
  
  
  SO MY RATE IS 8.0
  
  
  
  
  and for 800 charaters 
  ffffffffffffffff
  fffwfqwfqf
  fqwfqwfqf
  fqfqfqggg
  fqhfuiqghf
  62fqfqfqwf
  fqwfqwfqw
  fqfqwfqwfq
  
 fqwfqwfqf
  fqfqfqfw
  fqfqwfqwff
  qwfqwfqwf
  fqwfqwfqwf
  fqfwqwfqw
  fwqwqwqwf
  fqwfqwfw 
  damn why cant they put 500 words 
  or more
  atlast!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Armandm3
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 13, 2008 8:18 am PT
Review:  NFS Underground is a very good simulation game even if nowadays there is a lot of other games under 
 Need for Speed name as example NFS Underground 2 or even NFS Most Wanted. Need for Speed Underground 
 is a highly addictive one. The simulation inside the game is very nice and take you in easily.
 
  
  The game has nice graphic and very nice cars which may now be a little old but the simulation and 
 the graphics combine together make the game one of the best car simulation ever. Some of you sure 
 will ask that the game has years now and that new one are better graphically but this one is still 
 good in graphics as EA hasn't upgrade to much of it on graphic but more on simulation and fun.
 
  
  The bad thing for the game is the computer intelligence as they are always coming to hit and sometimes 
 the fall themselves in there own. This has been changed in the new game of NFS and that one good 
 point.
  
  If you don't have the game I will recommend it to all of you. Buy it and play it and also enjoy 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeepPink
Rating: 8
Date: May 10, 2008 2:11 pm PT
Review:  I mainly play Wipeout, so I decided to try Need for Speed: Hot Pursuit 2, Need For Speed: Underground 
 and Gran Turismo 4.
  
  Need for Speed: Underground.
  
  The Good
  
  Cars handle very well. Game looks nice. Course are very good. Nice stuff to unlock. 
  These cars 
 handle like a dream. Best handling of all the racing games I play. Too bad the the cars in NFS: 
 Hot Pursuit 2 don't handle this well.
  
  The bad
  
  Maybe not for you, but since I am using the 14 inch tv in my bedroom this is bad for me. All that 
 flicker, city lights and reflections make it very tough to avoid the traffic in the Underground 
 mode. The traffic in this mode really gives the Ai an unfair advantage since the Ai controlled 
 cars avoid the traffic all the time. Every single time I follow the correct racing line to corner 
 there is a car or truck. Then the big pointless slow-mo crash scene. By the time I get my car back 
 on track I go from 1st spot back to 4th spot. I can be way out in front of the other cars ,and 
 as soon as I slam into some hard to see car or truck then i am way at the back of the pack even 
 if I am twenty seconds ahead of the second car.
  
  At least the traffic can be turned off in the Quick race mode. Too bad it can't be turned off in 
 the underground mode.
  
  Final Thoughts
  
  This is what I hate about these types of racing games. All that traffic in the way. Who can follow 
 a proper racing line when a car might be around the corner. It is very frustrating to be winning 
 and then suddenly find yourself back in 4th spot due to stupid traffic all over the place.
  
  There is traffic in Need for Speed: Hot Pursuit 2, but that is very easy to see since there 
 are not a ton of reflections all over the place like in NFS: Underground.
  
  I always beat the Ai cars in the quick race mode since I can turn traffic off there, so I guess 
 they need some advantage in Underground mode. At least if the traffic was red, yellow or other 
 bright colors they might be easier to avoid ,but since all the traffic tends to be silver-grey 
 it is very tough to avoid.
  
  This is one thing I like about Gran Turismo 4 better than NFS. No stinking traffic in the way.
 
  
  It is a fun racing game except for Underground Mode since the traffic messes up the race.
  
 
  I am happy that I bought NFS: Underground for five bucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlirezaAAA
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 27, 2008 3:34 pm PT
Review:  1. Graphics: At the time of release, it was definitely the best in its category. Even now the racing 
 games that have better graphics than this game are less than the number of fingers of our hands. 
 I can mention many things to prove this. Adding crowds is one of these advantages over similar 
 games. Menus were completely re-engineered and were completely different from similar games and 
 even from predecessors. Cars details are something really interesting. There are huge selection 
 for body parts: hoods, spoilers, head and tail lights and ... . Vinyls and decals are completely 
 new.
  2. Sounds: The quality of sounds, just like other racing games, seems to be in the second importance 
 to the makers. When you are in the race, you can hear nothing but the sound of engine. Music is 
 something like a hum. This can be fixed by reducing the percentage of the sound of engine and tires.
 
  3. Game-play: This is surely a hard game and of course a time consuming one. Some tracks are very 
 difficult. Drags and drifts are something completely new. Drags are hard to master but drifts are 
 somehow interesting. Circuits, sprints and time trials are common in all racing games. The story 
 is a big disadvantage for this game. Very artificial story is used.
  4. Controls: Everything is alright. There is only one problem. I can not understand the reason 
 of using the backspace instead of escape key when navigating in menus.
  I think this was the best game in its class and in its release time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Prince_white
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 27, 2008 7:43 am PT
Review:  I think we all enjoyed to ride in the big city with some hot cars. All we need is some hot car 
 with cool color, nitrous bursting and some other things who make our life brilliant. It's game 
 about illegal night race on streets in the big city. Except winning and cool cars you need to know 
 some driving knowledge. If you want to be the best you need to collect styling points and your 
 car will appear on some famous car's magazines. Did you watch film Fast 'n Furious? Yeah, and if 
 you love that movie definitely you will adore this game.
  Graphic is very good, there are many lights effects and good design of streets. Music is very good 
 , of course, if you like rock and metal. For me there's one bad thing in this game, there isn't 
 car's damage. Except this thing NFS Underground is good game and everyone should play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marktsy
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 30, 2008 12:40 pm PT
Review:  This game wsa not t all what i expected bascially you drive this regular car, whcih over te game 
 you need to upgrade, adn don't worry you will get teh mony to do so after having comlpeted events. 
 Also the game is pretty adictive . sound in kinda good, and teh msic is well not my favorite tyoe, 
 Graphics , while your car and your opponnts cars are detailed the cars in the streets (traffic) 
 is very undetailed, Also you cannot see you cars intirior. A really bad thing about game pay is 
 that yu can only place first or else you cannot moce n further in the game. Another thing about 
 graphivcs is that while some things are extreamly detailed others are extrealy repetitive, i mean 
 every block that is on teh side of teh road has teh same grafiti. Catching uo is very hard to do 
 and to but it gets easier as you progress in teh game. The track is well confusing teh idea is 
 that it is a citywhere come areas are blocked of but it doesn't make sence so you will find really 
 repetitive stuff on teh tracks. And when you crash i think teh game has designed it so that it 
 will be a bigger loss to your position. And ther is no damage at all so tehr will be no money speant 
 repairing it. or your cars preformance being affected by it in some way. There are several modes 
 like types liek frag, drift, sprtint circuit tournament (grand prix) you son't need a mega powerfull 
 compter to run it but an old one isn't very good for runnings it usable with joysticks. oh yeah 
 selection of cars is poor, adn if you install adn upgrade you need to have eaarnd it adn you need 
 to or you won't be able to race next time, unless you upgrade your car adn i guess that's all if 
 you have any questions please email me: marktsy@yahoo. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blacksaibot
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 7, 2008 8:05 pm PT
Review:  Seeing as how old this game is, I won't write a full review.
  
  Sound/Audio:
  The tracks are nice when you're racing. But when you're in the garage mode or whatever, I want 
 to kill lil jon. I really do. The sound effects are great.
  
  Graphics:
  I was impressed by the graphics. Sure, it wasn't the best game graphics wise, but it was great 
 compared to the last game.
  
  Gameplay:
  Highly addicting! The only thing I have to really complain about are random bumps on some of the 
 guard rail that slam my car to a damn-near sudden halt. Little map glitches like that frustrate 
 the crap out of me.
  Playing single player is fun until the end of the game where the AI becomes total bull crap. I 
 am so sick of traffic being only in my way and the opponents know exactly how to dodge them perfectly. 
 The catch-up gets to be ridiculous at times.
  
  Overall a great game but it definitely has its frustrating moments!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mehfuz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 7:26 pm PT
Review:  Need for speed, a well known name in gamers of all ages and one of the best racing game series 
 game industry introduced for consoles and PC. From NFS 1 to NFS 6  hot pursuit 2 this series was 
 little generic  all those were high speed racing games with little to customize, but I am not 
 saying those games are not good  those are awesome. When 2 first to furious movie came into the 
 market  NFS was the first to adopt the racing system from that movie. Though many games like Street 
 Racing Syndicate (SRS) , Juiced tried to do the same thing but they went no where near NFS underground 
  7th game of this series and most successful and revolutionary in many ways.
  
  What makes underground so much different than other races  two things  addition of new race modes 
 and deep car customizations option. Before underground car racing means racing with opponents while 
 trying to finish in the top places, a little variation of this was knockout and time trial mode. 
 And gamers were tired of playing same kinds of racing all time and in all games. Underground attracted 
 new and old racing gamer by introducing three completely new modes  drift, drag, and sprint. I 
 personal favorite is drift and drag. In drift mode you show your drift skill to collect points 
 and in drag, which is absolutely intense and speedy racing, you change gear in timely manner to 
 get maximum boost. 
  
  Underground mode, which is the main part of this game, engage player to take part in races that 
 are driven by a story. But I didn't feel that much of appealing. Anyway one might easily get tired 
 playing same kind of match again and again. If you don't plan to finish the game in one sitting 
 or on a single day, I don't think you will become bored with underground mode. And this mode is 
 the easiest way to unlock tracks and cars that you can use in quick race mode. There is a healthy 
 amount of cars and tracks to be unlocked in this game and those are good enough to keep to busy 
 couple of hours.
  
  Bored playing alone, Need for Speed  underground has a robust online mode. You need to use your 
 EA account to log in online game and even after 4 years from its released date; you will find people 
 to play with. You can play either ranked or unranked match, I personally prefer ranked one, and 
 it adds extra enthusiasm in the race.
  
  As I said before, this game came out in 2003 and if you compare this game with some top game that 
 game in the same year, you will find, this game visuals are top notch. The whole city is beautifully 
 designed and you will be amazed by the light effects, crowd animations and cars visuals.
  
  Now that I mentioned car visuals, I think I should the car customization option, because this feature 
 deserver a separate paragraph. You can customize car's visuals and upgrade parts. In the parts 
 section you will find traditional upgrade like engine, ecu, suspension and most the upgrades are 
 divided into 3 levels, so you need to play fair amount of races to unlocks those with style points 
 and buy those with cash you will get from those races. But the fun part is change the car with 
 visuals items; you will have a selection of color, decals, vinyl, rims, hood, side skirt, lights, 
 neon color and even the roof scope and many more that I can't remember right now and these will 
 keep you busy and maybe you will spend more time in customizing car than actually racing.
  
  Sound and music are always been an integral part of game. And in my opinion this game soundtracks 
 are the best among many games and easily taken a place in my top 10 best game sound list. NFS: 
 underground has total 26 tracks by 26 artists. My personal fav is Rob zombie's two lane blacktop 
 and Fuel quarter. Though I deleted the game, I kept all the songs and listen sometime.
  
  Need for speed  Underground is a great game. If you a racing game fan, this is a must buy. And 
 you can get this game with other 4-5 NFS racing game in a package for ~$20 and that makes it only 
 couple of bucks but the fun you will get from this game is worth way more than the original $40. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saurabh3472
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 5, 2007 4:06 am PT
Review:  The game was awsome!!
  i played for five hours and crossed 56 races and then the main difficult situations came like eddie's 
 posset and all..
  i crossed it in  month..
  and the legend of road was my nissan 240 sx..
  defeated the all tuned nissan 350z...
  the honda 
 civic was the first and last car.......
  mitsubishi eclipse's looks was the greatest and itz speed was damn good.
  required no video cards 
 with my computer.
  simply a cool game
  defeating eddie was not at all difficult.
  he was just a little ant in front of me.
  my next games would me underground 2 then pro street.
 
  great graphics
  easy to play just one word for this game
  awsome 
::::::

::::::
UserName: majesticcryx
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 1, 2007 3:26 am PT
Review:  Underground trades in the traditional Ferrari and Porsche racers for 20 licensed street exotics 
  tuner cars from such manufacturers as Honda, Mazda, and Mitsubishi. The racing action, rooted 
 firmly in the street-racing culture depicted (a bit excessively) in The Fast and the Furious, delivers 
 a high-octane blast of raw speed thatll literally warp your vision as you struggle to match the 
 pace of the AI competition.
  
  Stealing a page from EAs defunct Motor City Online, Underground also features a massive customization 
 component. You can upgrade your chosen car cosmetically and mechanically, with hundreds of parts 
 from licensed aftermarket companies like Momo, Holley, and Bilstein.
  
  Although a Quick Race option is available at the front menu, the core of this new NFS racer is 
 its signature Underground mode. You begin with a showroom stock car and work your way through a 
 well-balanced series of circuit, sprint, knockout, drag, and drift events  all through the streets 
 of a traffic-choked fictional cityscape.
  
  You steadily upgrade your ride with new performance and visual mods. The process is extremely addictive 
 (the visual mods wont improve your speed, but they do raise your street cred, thus generating 
 more racing invites) , and the imaginative and well-implemented drift and drag-racing modes add 
 variety and depth.
  
  Unfortunately, a console-style catch-up feature keeps the AI drivers unrealistically close to you 
 much of the time, and the absence of any damage modeling means that grievous driving errors are 
 largely inconsequential.
  
  The real star is the graphics. The reflective wet-road surfaces are exquisite, and cool neon lighting 
 effects complement the urban nighttime theme. The cars themselves have been so lustrously rendered 
 that you can easily lose yourself for hours just eyeballing them at the paint-and-detailing screen.
 
  
  Even more impressive is the unique speed-blur effect that kicks in whenever your car hits speeds 
 in excess of 100 mph. Never before in the series nine-year history has the Need for Speed theme 
 been so artfully communicated, and Undergrounds eyeball-warping graphics add tremendous visual 
 punch to the act of driving fast.
  
  The high-energy soundtrack and well-rendered cut-scenes are equally impressive, but the absence 
 of any replay screen (or an in-car cockpit view) is an inexplicable oversight in a game of this 
 type. An entertaining and lag-free four-person Internet multiplayer component, with free in-game 
 matchmaking options through EA. com, adds further value to an already complete game. But its the 
 single-player experience that really earns EAs latest a spot on the hard drives of PC driving-game 
 enthusiasts. Need for Speed: Underground is about as good as an arcade racer can get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TunerSkyline92
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 27, 2007 8:37 am PT
Review:  Goooooood game!! I love all cars! Mazda RX-7 and Nissan Skyline GTR R34 is one of my best car! 
 I love to play Drifting most! Suggest you to play this game!! =D
  
  You can go to another website to download different skins for Need for Speed Underground cars. 
 Up to your prefer of skins. I use 2 Fast 2 Furious Nissan Skyline GTR R34 most. Actually, there 
 have many, many, many different skins, you can just download them and install them. =D ENjoy!!!
 
  
  You may ask me why I rated sound worst, because I am deaf, I cant heard everything, so.
  
  Worthly to play! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Don_Shadio
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 1, 2007 8:05 pm PT
Review:  Its a nice game, good graphics and visual effects. Road detail and shine is good and add that 
 with motion blur, fast driving becomes really fun and challenging. This is the first NFS with a 
 lot of customizations that you can do to your car. You start with one car and as you progress, 
 you can either make it better or if you dont like it, you can trade it for another car. The draw 
 back of a trade in is that you have to re-buy all the upgrades for your new car so you must have 
 lots of credit before you do it.
  
  The new drift and drag mode is awesome, though the traffic turns out to be pretty annoying in drag 
 races, but then again, the behavior of the traffic is not random so you dont have to worry if 
 you get totaled on your first attempt. Another drawback in the game that I found in the later races 
 is that if you revert back to your stock parts from your extreme performance ones, the same thing 
 applies to your opponents so those who find it difficult to drive at high speeds can even play 
 the entire game t stock without worrying that heir opponents have better cars, coz they dont, 
 lol.
  Overall, its a nice game and has quite a few good soundtracks which are fun to listen while driving, 
 though they will turn out o be bothersome later on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sharier
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 9, 2007 3:15 am PT
Review:  Need for Speed Underground is the turning point installment of the NFS series. The previous five 
 games were all racing games keeping the standard racing as their benchmarks. Here, NFS goes to 
 the sub-culture of underground racing.
  When this game came out, the Fast and the Furious movie has already hit the theatres and grossed 
 a good business. Its no big surprise that EA got inspired by the theme of the movie and built the 
 game in resemblance of the world of Fast and the Furious. There had been a law suit too -- and I 
 don't exactly know if EA lost in that case against the makers of Fast and Furious. But the thing 
 is, EA did a nice job in replicating the racing excitement of the movie.
  Unlike the past NFS games, this game introduces a city, with streets criss crossing throughout 
 the map. at the beginning level, your movement is restricted to one part of the city. As you win 
 races, other parts of the cities become open to you. Its completely different from previous NFS 
 games because those had different beautiful racing locations only. There was no free world to roam 
 around.
  With such an enormous map gradually opening up for you to roam around, you can enjoy open ended 
 races with fellow underground racers in free roam mode. This way you can win cashes (in addition 
 to winning different types of races) and upgrade your car, engine or the looks.
  Among other things, you get to use mobile phones extensively for racing challenges and messages 
 from your buddies. This completes the underground racing subculture.
  The races themselves are not as hard as they are in Underground Most Wanted. But the varied types 
 of races are exciting and some of them demands you practice well (and lose a few rounds) before 
 winning. Overall this is a highly enjoyable game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agturboninja
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 6, 2007 2:41 pm PT
Review:  This was my 2nd street racing I played, 1st being Midnight Club 2. NFS Underground has a great 
 amount of customization. There is over 4.4 billion car combonations for each car of how they look. 
 The controls on the keyboard is good.
  
  The career mode you participate in races in a linear fashion to earn money to but visual and performance 
 upgrades. It gets boring after a while because you beat one race after the other. The racing AI 
 is not challenging like Midnight Club 2. You just drive fast don't crash to walls or cars and you 
 win.
  
  The speed effects are very sweet and the drag and drift modes are good but not that amazing.
 
  
  Overall there is no freedom like Midnight Club 2. It's a good racing game to play once, then you're 
 done with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mynameisntfree
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 26, 2007 12:21 pm PT
Review:  Need For speed underground is by far the best street racing game on the market. Now yes all the 
 games after this are pretty good i will say. But this game is what built Most Wanted and Carbon. 
 This is the foundation for future NFS racing games It is filled with awesome cars in which you 
 can tune up and make your own. Although the body kits are kind of repetitive and there aren't that 
 many choices for it. But still, the cars can be pretty cool lookin. The graphics are pretty good, 
 besides the fact that if your run into something you won't receive any damage. But I like it. It's 
 neat. ^_^ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ps2stony
Rating: 4.8
Date: Mar 11, 2007 5:01 pm PT
Review:  Need For Speed Underground (NFSU) is a separate spin off from the popular need for speed series. 
 Where you play an unknown street racer prepared to make his way to the top. The game has undertaken 
 a larger cosmetic makeover then its predecessors which to its credit makes racing experience within 
 NFSU feel very realistic with the motion blur (experienced also in Moto GP) , car and water reflections 
 and beautiful lush environments stretching from the metropolitan city centres to the neon visual 
 galore china town. However to many of these backgrounds are recycled throughout the game and as 
 such much of the game beyond the half way point become repetitious even though the actual tracks 
 differ. To add a certain degree of variation to the gaming experience NFSU has incorporated some 
 interesting game modes. Drift, Drag and sprint which do offer a suitable addition to the standard 
 circuit mode races and indeed allow the player to experience different methods of driving. Another 
 nice feature of the game is the ability to upgrade the car once funds are available. The upgrades 
 are unlocked as you proceed thought the game gaining more higher performance parts and more prize 
 money. The upgrading is not only restricted to purchasing performance upgrades the car can also 
 be changed visually from changing paint colour, adding underlay, stickers of sponsors and modifying 
 modding the car.
  
  The cars within NFSU are fairly realistic in the way they act on the street and the way in which 
 they look when compared to there real life counterparts. The only real problem which I experienced 
 with the car handling was that there seemed to be slightly to much over and under steer applied 
 with much of the cars and strangely enough it would occur when the car is not exceeding any where 
 near maximum speeds. However when putting the game into context, considering that this racing title 
 as the other NFS games are more aimed as arcade racers then realistic driving experiences this 
 small quibble can be forgiven. The presentation of the game menu and way in which the racers occur 
 one after another without much interlude (except for tuning and customisation of the car) also 
 help to reinforce the arcade style and feel of the game.
  
  NFSU has a very easy learning curve. The controls are well placed and can be customised so suit 
 players needs if required. Although towards the last twenty races or so the game defiantly increases 
 to a whole new gear and the three difficulty modes (hard, medium and easy) do not seem to have 
 much of a difference between them as the AI cars themselves seem to race particularly identical 
 times through out the race independent of what difficulty setting have been selected. Another problem 
 curious feature that unfortunately has been overlooked by the developer is the annoying way in 
 which the cars behave depending on our own performance within a race. For example if you are commanding 
 a great lead traffic with in the roads in higher populated where you are and the speeds or performance 
 of the trailing cars in also increased to reduce the gap. This strange flaw also works the other 
 way around if you are trailing behind the car in front will respond by running a much slower time. 
 This ridiculous AI really does destroy what could have been a great game instead for much of the 
 game mainly the later stages you will replaying the same level in which you would have probably 
 won eons back if it went for this flaw. If you can overlook this problem then your onto a winner 
 if however you are like me and scrutinise ever oversight within a game then stay away and spare 
 yourself hours of cursing and seeing the same buildings and tracks over and over again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slayer_Sam
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 8, 2007 12:47 pm PT
Review:  The Need for Speed series has always stood at the top of its respective racing class for full-bore, 
 adrenaline-inducing thrills and realistic yet arcade-style action. But the newest title, Need for 
 Speed Underground, is the most dramatic departure the series has seen yet. This time around EA 
 decided to go with the hugely popular street-racing concept to infuse some style and flair into 
 the franchise. And while the developer certainly did a great job in taking all the excitement of 
 the real-life sport and bringing it into their latest creation, it's hard to overlook the fact 
 that every race takes place in the same fictitious city. Nevertheless, if you're burnt out on Midnight 
 Club II and don't own an Xbox with which to play Project Gotham Racing 2, then Underground may 
 be just the thing to sate your appetite for speed.
  Like previous games in the series, Need for Speed Underground does not excel at purporting realistic 
 physics and simulation style handling, instead the name of the game here is pure, unadulterated 
 velocity. And lots of it. Whether you're a veteran of the series or new to the fold, you won't 
 have trouble picking this game up and getting right to the good stuff. Keep in mind though that 
 Underground is best played with an analog-stick PC controller, using a keyboard to navigate tight 
 turns and avoid incoming traffic can, frankly, be downright frustrating. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: queenfan66
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 19, 2007 2:14 pm PT
Review:  This game is great. It is a really strong title for the need for speed francise. In addition it 
 is a huge step from the previous titles. The ability to modify your cars is a great a welcome addition. 
 the storyline also adds some dept to the title. The game is a lot harder and also has more races 
 from the previous titles. It can easily provide you with hours of fun. Internet play though is 
 sadly not only hard but you have to ask to join, i tried it once and it only seemed like a message 
 board and not an online race. Many, Many things are good about the title. The grafixs have also 
 become a lot more realizitic. If you are looking for a racer for you or for a child, this title 
 is certanly worth the money, (get the world of Need for speed bundle) this title is certanly worth 
 it. You certanly wont complete it in one sitting.
  this title is an absolut must have! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paulitis
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 18, 2007 6:39 am PT
Review:  This game is the first game from Need For Speed series where you can tune your car. except Hot pursuit 
 2 or Road Challenge where you can upgrade your engine. Need For Speed finally can drive with normal 
 cars like Peugeot 206, Ford Focus or VW Golf. Tracks very often rerun. But there are new mods - 
 Drag, Drift and Sprint. In Drag you compete with Three opponents. Need For Speed Underground idea 
 is to be city Street Racing king. Graphics isn`t better than Hot Pursuit 2. Cars don't look like 
 cardboardI boxes any more. think Hot Pursuit 2 is much better than Underground. Only tuning is better 
 than Hot Pursuit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SYdoggXxX
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 26, 2008 4:12 pm PT
Review:  I had never played a racing game prior to Need For Speed Underground 2, and after giving it a try, 
 not only did I find myself loving every aspect of that game, but I was seriously craving for more 
 excellent arcade racing action. Enter the original Need For Speed Underground. I lowered my expectations 
 a bit before playing this game - knowing that since it was the prequel, it would be understandable 
 if it wasn't as good as NFSU 2 - and I wasn't disappointed at all. I did curse a few times at the 
 game, due to the immense frustration several of the final races in the underground mode gave me, 
 but overall I really enjoyed NFS Underground.
  
  As an arcade racer, this is obviously not a very realistic game (at least in certain aspects) . 
 While the cars handle somewhat realistically, you can crash your car several times and not only 
 will it sport no visual damage, it's performance won't be affected at all. This can take away a 
 bit from the immersion, but it paves the way for some seriously exciting racing. The liberal use 
 of physics in the game allows you to forget about the rules of the road and just make it to the 
 finish line first, at whatever cost.
  
  A racing game is only good if it gives you a good sense of speed, and NFSU hits a home run in that 
 aspect. Once you start upgrading your ride's interiors, you'll literally feel the wind in your 
 face as you race around the city, going through many of the game's challenges. Drag racing in particular 
 gives you the highest sense of speed, so much that I felt they were the most enjoyable races in 
 the game (despite the fact they were very short) , but overall all the racing modes are greatly 
 enjoyable, thanks mostly to that amazing rush you'll get once you start hitting speeds of 100m/h 
 and higher.
  
  It's not just about speed though, the many obstacles in the street will keep you on the edge of 
 your seat and will add a lot of tension to the races. Make one little mistake and you can kiss 
 your winning chances goodbye. During the latter tracks in the underground mode, you'll definitely 
 feel that adrenaline rush as you try to makes as perfect a race as possible, knowing that's your 
 only chance of winning. And it's on those final races that you'll have the hardest time with this 
 game. In order to make the game more challenging (a. k. a., making life miserable for you) , during 
 the final races, your opponents will be much faster than you, regardless of whatever upgrades you 
 have applied to your car. This is pretty stupid if you ask me, since it's the equivalent of the 
 computer cheating on you (changing the difficulty to easy doesn't change things a bit by the way) , 
 and believe it or not the only way to counter this is by making you car slower. You read that correct; 
 since your opponents cars will scale to your level, downgrading your car will effectively downgrade 
 their rides too, and for me this was the only way I could beat a couple of the hardest races in 
 the game. And to add insult to injury, several of the final races are multiple lap affairs (6 or 
 7 laps) across some the largest and hardest tracks, which means that you'll probably break your 
 keyboard (or gamepad, or wheel) out of frustration, when you are forced to reset a race as you 
 make one crucial mistake during the final lap of the race.
  
  But despite this flaws, the underground mode is very enjoyable. Your main goal will be to become 
 the best driver in the city, and you'll accomplish this by going up the ranks. You'll climb up 
 the ranks by beating specific races at a certain time, and if you ask me it would've been much 
 more interesting if the ranks were determined on your actual performances (i. e., your win-loss 
 ratio) . There is a loose story that goes along with the underground mode, but it's pretty irrelevant 
 and rather predictable. However the cut-scenes that play out the story are pretty cool, and occasionally 
 hilarious.
  
  NFS Underground offers a tasty visual treat. The graphics are overall very sharp and detailed, 
 from your cars to the city itself. The crowd models are a lot more bland, but that's understandable 
 since the crowd is largely irrelevant. Something that's very relevant though, is the motion blur 
 effect that kicks in as you reach very high speeds. This greatly helps to increase that sense of 
 speed, and while it can make spotting incoming traffic or obstacles a bit harder, it's a great 
 addition to the game. It's a shame that the game maxes at 1280 * 1024, and that it offers no support 
 for AA or AF, since jaggies can dent the impressive look of the game.
  
  The sound on the other hand is virtually perfect. Car engines sound appropriately powerful (depending 
 on the car and the level of customization) , and more subtle things such as the crash noises (well, 
 those can never be subtle really) , the tire friction, or that whoosh you hear and feel as you nearly 
 miss an incoming car, sound appropriate enough and greatly help increase the level of immersion. 
 The soundtrack of the game is also spectacular, featuring a very varied array of themes, all of 
 which fit very well with the underground theme of the game. My personal favorites were Rob Zombie's 
 "Two lane blacktop", Crystal Method's "Born too slow", Fuel's "Quarter" and Static X's "The only".
 
  
  With the underground mode consisting of over 100 races (which doesn't translate into 100 different 
 tracks, since most of them recycle the same courses or are simply set up in reverse) , and a quick 
 race option as well as a decent multiplayer option (which is largely irrelevant at this point, 
 since everyone has moved on to different games) , NFS Underground offers a good value. With more 
 variety in the racing tracks, the game could've been even more appealing, since repeating the same 
 tracks over and over can feel a bit tedious, but the courses themselves are entertaining enough 
 to make up for this flaw.
  
  NFS Underground is a tremendous arcade racing game, that even when judged against today's standards 
 still fairs very well. It can certainly be frustrating (trust me, I came very close to breaking 
 things while replaying the Market Street course for the umpteenth time) , so I recommend taking 
 a deep breath before you venture into one of those marathonic 6 lap races, but putting those issues 
 aside, NFSU is a highly entertaining racer that I recommend to any racing fan as well as anyone 
 that's new to the genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: filaria
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 30, 2006 7:56 am PT
Review:  Need for speed underground offers some very good moments of racing. It also boasts great graphics. I 
 actually played this game after playing through the sequel entirely, twice and I certainly didnt 
 find it boring to any extent. If I were to compare both the installments the first one offers some 
 tougher racing than the sequel. I mean.... playing on easy isn't easy like in the sequel where u 
 could take a one minute lead, stop for 30 seconds and again resume and still win if u had ur ride 
 tricked out in the career mode. But in UG 1 the 112th race was even no childs play. The races aren't 
 actually tough if ur a good driver but mistakes prove to be fatal, once the AI takes the lead u 
 can pretty much forget about winning the race unless ur opponent makes a mistake or u take him/her 
 out cause the tracks are very small. U may come across moments where u will play a race 5 times 
 before u actually win it. The tracks are filled with a plethora of shortcuts and hangtimes which 
 are to be seen less in the sequel. The real annoyance factor here is the traffic, unorthodoxly annoying. The 
 numero uno downside to the greatness of the game. To add to that the traffic varies with races. U 
 have no control over it. It's the traffic that's going to make ur life hell in UG 1. These moment 
 remind me of midnight club 2. The cutscenes are good, not to mention the loading times are very good 
 as compared to the sequel. Drag races are the best but... traffic.... There are fewer tracks to choose 
 from. The sound and soundtracks are good, my personal favorite being kimosabe .There are fewer cars 
 than in the sequel. But the world environment mapping is muuuuch better than UG 2. The graphics are 
 definitely a plus point. One thing guarenteed is that u will come across some of the most pensive 
 moments in ur life while playing this game. This is arguebly one of the most addictive games I have 
 come across; ofcourse not as much as Halo-but very addictive. It took me about one week to complete 
 it. The UI isn't as good as the sequels'. Just would like to add one thing that the drift tracks 
 used here are seen as the StreetX tracks in UG 2. It definitely would have undoubtedly been one 
 of the greatest games to play in 2003, it still is...... but ud be better off playing Most Wanted 
 or UG 2. Now that I have once again gone back to the sequel I find UG 1 being a lot smaller in magnitude 
 as compared to the sequel. It doesn't allow u to do much stuff other than racing and upgrading ur 
 car but I repeat, the graphix are great, not the best but great. So if u have already played UG 2, 
 u might as well give UG 1 a try. But I cant say how better it is as compared to carbon, I havent 
 played it yet! One thing I still cant figure out is why UG 2 runs better than UG 1?
  The roads are glistening as though someone peeed all over it........ :-My friend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GjRjEjG
Rating: 6.1
Date: Dec 17, 2006 9:22 am PT
Review:  Although many people believe that this is the first game in the Need for Speed series, there are 
 actually 6 games that came before this one. Have played all but the first two, but all of them 
 have been about exotic cars and most of them have involved police chases. This does not. This game 
 is all about racing slow cars that aren't fun until you unlock some good upgrades. No cops, just 
 repetitive game play. One of the few things I like about the game is the drift races, but eventually 
 like everything else they get boring. The in game advertising is pretty bad in this game also. 
 If your looking for a game that's all about tuners and upgrades, this games for you. If your looking 
 for a Need for Speed game, try something else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PunkAss007
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 21, 2006 3:42 am PT
Review:  This game is indeed great! Alltough I admit that I haven't played the missions (career) , I can 
 say that it is awsome... It's not better than most wanted tho... The graphics is surprisingly good, 
 cuz I expected it to be worst... Don't know why. I like it cuz it is night driving , and cuz you 
 can put neon lights... You can't do that in Most Wanted... There's also a great car-updating option 
 or so to call it. I mean the great choice of body parts, paintings, vinyls and so on... All Need 
 for Speed fans should check this game out. There are also great sound effects... I'll score this 
 game perfect cuz in the time that I got it (that was the time that I have played it too) I considered 
 it perfect... Now Most Wanted is better in my opinion, and I will soon get Carbon too check out 
 if it's better or not... Anyway, NFS fans: Check out Underground (if you already haven't) , it won't 
 dissapoint you... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shaun_2585
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 16, 2006 7:00 pm PT
Review:  Good game fun to play drifts are the best lot of fun can't be bothered writing 100 words so s s 
 s s s s s s s s s s s s s s z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z zzzzzzz z z z z z z 
 z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z 
 z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z zz z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z 
 z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z zzzz z z z 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blitzkrieg10
Rating: 5.3
Date: Oct 18, 2006 2:20 pm PT
Review:  This is the first NFS to include the concept of upgrading the car's appearance with a large variety 
 of hoods, lights, NOS, spoilers, and much more. This game is alright but it is obvious that this 
 is the pet project for games to come when it comes to the underground scene. The single player 
 mode for this game is alright but the repetition in tracks is not only tedious but gets boring. 
 If this game could get a larger variety of tracks, this game would be higher up on my fun games 
 list. One upside to this game is the fact there is a large variety of cars, visual and performance 
 ugrades. Despite this the game doesn''t live up to my expectation. Nice try, but you can do beter. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: charizard1605
Rating: 9
Date: May 23, 2008 10:32 am PT
Review:  The Need for Speed series is one of the most recognised names in the gaming world. Though it started 
 out as a simulation game, with realistic car handling and physics, the series soon turned into 
 what is now known as one of the greatest arcade racer series of all times. Games like Hot Pursuit 
 and High Stakes furthur cemented the series aforementioned positon, while an occasional one off, 
 like Porsche Unleashed, have reminded us of the series' true roots.
  
  Be as it may, the series, after Porsche Unleashed, has started stagnating. A whiff of fresh air 
 came in the form of Hot Pursuit 2, and finally, now, the series has moved into an exciting new 
 direction. Need for Speed: Underground is here.
  
  Based on the tuner import culture scene, as well as the night time illegal street racing, Need 
 for Speed Underground features just about the most variety that any racing game can boast of. It 
 has thousands of customisation options, a lot of cars, a HUGE number of race modes, and quite a 
 lot of tracks.
  
  When this game came out back in 2003, I unhesitatingly pronounced it to be the greatest PC game 
 ever. Today, I have sobered down, and wisened up. And while this may NOT be as good as I originally 
 thought it to be, I still maintain, NFSU is one of the greatest racers of all times, way better 
 than its succesors. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: brad11344
Rating: 8.4
Date: Sep 14, 2006 4:38 pm PT
Review:  I had alot of fun on this game you start out with a stock car and can do alot of mods to it almost 
 everything expect interior head light color, and color of NOS lol the game play is very good SOUND 
 is very good each car sounds a little diffrent and u can hear that muffler , graphics are good 
 not crapy, and you can play online , and this game is a very fun game, i got my little hond civic 
 from 130mph top speed to 240mph !!!! big diffrence
  
  OVERALL: if your at a yard sale and see this game and dont have a good street racer at home, get 
 this and its pretty fun to play ive played it for about 25 hours 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abdulrahiem
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 7, 2006 3:42 pm PT
Review:  Gamespot hit this one out of the park. Thought it was pretty nice the first time i beat it, but 
 it does kind of get boring after awhile doing like 5 different maps over and over and backwards, 
 and oposite. Exspevially when there is 120 different races which seems to be the right amount of 
 races, but not enough maps in my opinon. The Drag and Drift modes are just fantastic. Dragging consists 
 in just going as fast as you can in a mile long straight road, with traffic. The whole pint of 
 dragging is so that you learn to shift gears right on time to gain more speed, but the best thing 
 that NFS Underground has unlike Underground 2 and Most Wanted. In Need For Speed Underground you 
 start off as a nobody in the world of street racing. You buy a car and then the fun begins, but 
 before you engage in high speed racing you have to tune your car, to make it more beautiful and 
 most importantly to make it extremely fast. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackcrews
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 22, 2006 12:27 am PT
Review:  This is a truly great street racing game, you can tell from the gameplay its been inspired by the 
 movies "The Fast And The Furious" and "2 Fast 2 Furious", if you like buying and modding cars, 
 then racing at break neck speeds through narrow streets, this game is for you. So what faults has 
 it got? The only major fault with this game is the computer opponents do cheat to win in harder 
 races, when you near the end they will get a boost in speed which is very noticable, 
  
  Conclusion, high recommended for any racing fan.
  
  Alternatives: Juiced\NFS Most Wanted 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Geon106
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 1, 2006 9:05 am PT
Review:  This is a truly great street racing game, you can tell from the gameplay its been inspired by the 
 movies "The Fast And The Furious" and "2 Fast 2 Furious", if you like buying and modding cars, 
 then racing at break neck speeds through narrow streets, this game is for you. So what faults has 
 it got? The only major fault with this game is the computer opponents do cheat to win in harder 
 races, when you near the end they will get a boost in speed which is very noticable, 
  
  Conclusion, high recommended for any racing fan.
  
  Alternatives: Juiced\NFS Most Wanted 
::::::

::::::
UserName: milan1133
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 6, 2006 5:05 am PT
Review:  well im not the best at reviewing games but ill give it a go.
  right nfsu i think is is a very cool game it is adictive, you pick a car you wont to start of with 
 then you costomise it in your likeing but ar the start you only have a limithed amounts on gear 
 to costomise it but as you progress throughout the game you unlock new cars, new gear to costomise 
 your car with and lots more. If you get bored with the car you have you can change it for a different 
 one wich will have the same speed etc but different make. Oh i forgot to say that you unlock new 
 perfromance gear to make you car have better speed acseliitation brake and more. When you into 
 underground mode you have missions if you like and as you take on others to get better ranking 
 at: drift, drag, circuit and last of all sprint, you can unlock things as i allready said. One of 
 my best things in the game is that you can go online and race against other people around the world.
 
  
  so wot are you wating for if you haven't got the game already go out there and test it out im sure 
 you will like it same as me.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wanderlust_85
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 29, 2006 7:15 am PT
Review:  Frankly speaking Im one of those people who are totally uninterested in racing games but Need 
 For Speed UNDERGROUND changed it all. It changed the way I look at racing games. After the release 
 ROAD RASH this was the game where I spend hours and hours racing with all the high tech cars awesome 
 visual upgrades and breathtaking performance upgrades. At least this game gave me an idea how one 
 feels visually when driving a car above 300+km/hr. 
  Like most of the upcoming games this too has a story line which will keep you hooked up trying 
 to know what will happen next. You get a ride keep racing and racing  win them  get cash and 
 make you ride a reflector of the true animal within you. As one keeps winning races upgrades let 
 it be visual or performance are unlocked and the gathered up cash can be used to make your sweetheart 
 stand out from others.
  Here the game is not just limited to circuit racing. You have sprints, drags and drifts all trying 
 to test your skills in different types of racing. This game has it that are needed to make a racing 
 game successful hot rides and breathtaking chicks.
  So go out there  choose your ride and show what you can do. The bottom line is SKYLINE rocks.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: eolfson
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 19, 2006 12:54 pm PT
Review:  The games given to us by the Need for Speed crew have always been impressive, but this one is really 
 over the top. The graphics are great, the gamplay is amazing, and the customization is extremely 
 well done. There are planty of different ways to race, like drag, circuit, or lap knock out. All 
 of the modes are great, but I would have to say drag is probably the most fun. Also, during the 
 game, you can get a wide variety of paints, rims, and accesories for your ride. The only thing 
 that I would change about the game is that it always seems like the random traffic is out to get 
 you, you always seem to run into it at the wrong time. Overall though the game is still perfect, 
 and I recomend it to any racing fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: namby_trojan
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 7, 2006 7:52 pm PT
Review:  
  This is the best street-racing game so far, I like this better than Most Wanted or U2. I like the 
 option where you can customize your car with cool things to make it powerful. Has lots of known 
 cars such as Honda, btw that's my favorite, got engine upgrades, brakes, bumpers, neons, stickers, 
 and all that cool stuff, dress up your car in your like
  
  Some levels are championships that made of 3 in-a-row races, and you get tired because there are 
 4 laps to do and each lap is so big, takes like 30 minutes to complete, but you get the money. 
 If you play on hard, it's easy for your opponent to catch up but if you screwed up on the last 
 lap, you are finished. It's hard to catch up and it can be very frustrating. The Drift Mode is 
 suprizingly hard. If you earn lots of points, you can instantly lose them if you hit a wall, which 
 you regret.
  
  Drag mode is pretty easy, and sometimes fun. But the most fun part is to upgrade your vehicle. 
 First it looked like a sedan, then it's a powerful street-racing car!
  
  Worth Playing, but only if you don't own U2 or MW.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sudantha8527
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 29, 2006 10:17 am PT
Review:  The game is one innovative game to come out.. From the hype Fast and the Furious caused people 
 were looking for a fast ride and this was a wonderful substitute for the ones who could'nt afford 
 a fast ride
  
  GOOD: The graphics are revolutionary, the game gets you addicted from day one and keeps you glued 
 to you monitor. you can modify cars which is really cool and to a street racing style whic High 
 Satkes did not offer
  
  BAD: There is really nothing bad, there is the free roaming abillity which the game did not have 
 but was offered by the other two installments to the series Underground 2 and Most Wanted
  
  It's a wonderful game overall some thing everybody should try out, the gaming is intesly fun 
 and the drags keep you at the edge of your seat. A super addition to one of the best racing game 
 seriesed of all time 
::::::

::::::
UserName: farmboy89
Rating: 6.8
Date: Mar 11, 2006 4:28 pm PT
Review:  I liked the game, but it seemed a bit short and it was too easy. The storyline is good, and the 
 tracks are good, but the racers suck. One race I was in two of my opponents got stuck behind a 
 lightpost and were there for two laps. It was horrible. The customizing is ok, but it could definitely 
 be improved. The fact that you can trade in cars and put the exact same parts on is a bit unrealistic. 
 There weren't any vinyls that I liked either. They were all boring. This game is ok, but it could 
 definitely be way better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vufor
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 10, 2006 3:28 am PT
Review:  That is it! This game with its first appearence will make a revoulution in racing game age!! Need 
 for speed series so far was not bad for just driver deviles. But time need not only speed its need 
 something that has Undeground people :) ) ) here you go! we now have that thing as well, but in well 
 created game, so what as long as I am getting th same fun and performance. That is so far is adequate 
 for me. 
  
  Brilliant graphic development... fantastic sound in game. You will enjoy this game in its whole 
 range. By pimping or tunig yur car for getting best performance in racing. 
  
  New engine, turbo, nitro, wheels, brakes and other posh stuff.... will get you rating in underground 
 racing world to the winner level!!
  
  Have fun!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theunwn
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 5, 2006 3:33 am PT
Review:  NFSU marks a welcomed departure from the tried and true formula of racing exotic super cars at 
 impossibly ridiculous speeds through remote locations across the globe. However, is it possible 
 that some features could be left out that were included in previously in the franchise? I'll get 
 to that a little later. 
  
  What NFSU does, it does very well, which is give you an incredible sense of speed. The camera lens 
 shakes and the environment blurs as you pilot your turbo-charged, NOS-injected rice-rocket down 
 busy streets and narrow alley-ways. But where are the replays? NFS has always had a very good replay 
 system so it is something that is sorely missed in its absence. 
  
  The control is, as always, rock-solid. Aside from a few minor gripes, (like the way on-coming traffic 
 and narrow, 6-inch poles or trees seem to suck you into them, immediately halting all action) , 
 NFSU handles like a gem. Most of the time. It can get a bit jittery when playing online against 
 someone with a slow connection, but that is to be expected. Just play people with broadband and 
 the turret's syndrome the game experiences with lag will go away. As long as you have a good controller 
 or steering wheel, your PC is the platform to play this game on. If you decide to play this game 
 with the keyboard, well, may God be with you, because this game is hell to play this way. Dont 
 as why, I just wanted to try it, boy, I learned my lesson. 
  
  Graphically, this game is a nice step up for the franchise. Car models and environments are meticulously 
 detailed, which give the gamer a greater sense of awareness to their surroundings. It actually 
 looks like the locations could be actual places where you could race your own 83 Toyota Corolla 
 against your buddy's 72 AMC Gremlin. (Which I do not condone by the way!) The cars and surfaces 
 reflect light nicely and everything has a nice, glossy sheen to it. Although, to me, it looks like 
 the streets are always wet, but that is more of a gripe than anything. If the game handled like 
 you were driving on ice, that would be another story entirely, but thank God, its not. If 
 your PC has the horsepower, I highly recommend turning the visual settings all the way up and running 
 it at as high of a resolution as you can. It looks flat out amazing. The game almost never slows 
 down or looks back, just kicks ass and takes names to steal a quote. Unless all four 
 cars are on the screen with traffic and you cause a pile up because your mad driving skills slipped 
 for a second. 
  
  As far as the sound department goes, I really am becoming a big fan of the EA Trax. With a few 
 exceptions, their choices are excellent in getting you into your Fast and the Furious mind set. 
 The sound effects are great as well. Totaling your car after slamming into the side of a delivery 
 truck at 140 mph drag racing down a crowded highway with the environment and other cars whooshing 
 by (5.1 is god's gift to man, or to me at least) is in its own sick little way, greatly satisfying. 
 After all, you get a great action shot of your hellacious crash with harmonious sounds of crunching 
 metal screeching tires. However, this experience could be even more satisfying if there was an 
 element of car damage. Oh well, there us always Need for Speed: Even More Underground Than Before, 
 to look forward to. 
  
  Everything about NFSU is very nicely polished. But like I said before, can a game actually have 
 fewer features than previous games? Maybe I'm just oblivious, or just in too much of a rush to 
 get back to the action, but I could swear they forgot the ability to save your progress in the 
 middle of a tournament. Every time I exit a tourney half way through, I am rewarded for my progress 
 by being told that I have the distinct honor of completing all of the races again. YES! That's 
 AWESOME! I know that it is a major gripe, but I may have a slight case of ADD and like to jump 
 around the game a lot. I may be in the middle of a tourney and decide I want to jump online and 
 issue a friendly challenge to my fellow gamers online (So that I may crush them and watch them 
 cower in fear of my greatness.) Or, maybe not. 
  
  My other issue is, and I am sure this is purely because I am lazy, is that I have not found a way 
 to turn off the action camera. Yeah, it's cool the first 10 or 15 times, but after seeing my car 
 fly six inches over the pavement due to a minor flaw in the road for the 912th time, I get slightly 
 annoyed. However, due to a great epiphany I just had, I may reference the instruction manual for 
 help when I get home. 
  
  The modifying system for the cars themselves could be a little more refined as well. I personally 
 would like to do each upgrade separately by part versus by package. An option of tweaking the settings, 
 ala Gran Turismo would also be very welcomed. The way it stands now, it reminds me as a revamped 
 way you could hop up the exotics in NFS: Hot Pursuit, since back then, you could upgrade each car 
 in three separate stages. The actual manufacturers licenses are a very nice touch though, 
 and as far as modifying how your car looks, well, there is everything imaginable from body kits, 
 to rims, to neon lights. 
  
  This game is a truly great game to emerge from the NFS stables and with it starting a revolution 
 in the making of racing games giving the user more power than the car.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: grasu
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 2, 2006 10:27 am PT
Review:  Yo dawgs I give you the welcomez to da toughest racer in da hood homie! NFSU iz were it's at! Y'all 
 should be jumping on this boat and be rocking hard cuz, cuz, it's never bein this tight racing 
 in da street befar!!!
  
  Ok... enough with the lingo, you'll get more than enough of it in NFSU, on to the facts. NFSU is 
 the - I-lost-count-at-5 - continuation of the successful Need for Speed series. The NFS series, 
 for the 4 of you out there who've either been dug out of a giant icicle or have lived in a crater 
 for your whole life, is one of the most well know arcade racing series out there. NFS used to mean 
 fast, out of this world cars and lots of open picturesque highways to bust out your wheels on. 
 Now, that's all over.
  
  NFSU is EA's entry in the "new and exciting" genre of street racing. Ever since REAL street racing 
 simulators came out the world has been craving more. NFSU delivers that "more" people have been 
 craving for and does so in style... well, if you can ignore all the abundant lingo.
  
  Graphics: 8/10
  
  For a PC game, NFSU looks barely above average. The textures are pretty poor 
 and the surroundings could have been much better done. Much of what you see is washed out or fogged 
 out. Buildings really lack sharpness and detail and the rest of the environment could be both more 
 destructible and livelier.
  
  That being said, NFSU does benefit from some pretty neat racing effects. The speed blur is an awesome 
 effect that gives you a greater feel of speed. Lighting is also pretty good, with taillights dissipating 
 in the distance and neons giving out a satisfying glow.
  
  As far as the resolution goes, this too is serviceable. A maximum of 1280x1024 pixels can fit on 
 screen at one time. This is much more than what the weak hardware found in consoles can produce, 
 and it shows. NFSU on the PC is much clearer and better looking than it's console counterparts. 
 Hell, in fact I would even warn against downloading the demo (or the game) to try it out, or whatever 
 on the PC and then switching to a console because the graphics will make your eyes bleed.
  
  None of the effects are really over done, with the exception of one: Wetness. The pavement 
 is always giving out this horrendous shine that looks like it just rained 5 minutes ago. Along 
 with the "all night party" this is the most annoying effect found in NFSU.
  
  Finally, the PC version has the least slowdown of all of the version. The console versions suffer 
 from monster slowdown while the PC keeps it at a minimum.
  
  Sound: 10/10
  
  The sound in NFSU is so good that it's in a league of it's own... shared by only one other racer.
 
  
  Thanks to EA Trax, NFSU has some of the best music you can find in a game to date. Lil John, Asian 
 Dub Foundation, Static X, and more composed the tracks you'll find in NFSU. Let's just say that 
 it's amazing how well all of these tracks fit the mood of the game. Whether you like or hate them 
 it's readily obvious that the developers spent a great deal of time selecting these tracks and 
 making sure they fit perfectly with the atmosphere.
  
  The sound effects are even better than the music. The voice acting, while overly street is pretty 
 decent... but it's NOTHING compared to the actual sound effects. I've yet to hear better engine 
 sounds or more ambient noise than in NFSU. The sound component monitors engine modifications so 
 well that's it's actually possible that there are hundreds of different engine sounds in the game. 
 Every time you change a part of your engine or even your car, the sound of the whole thing changes. 
 Together with the wind blowing, gear's changing and tires squealing the sound effects in NFSU make 
 for some of the most enjoyable audio experiences ever.
  
  Gameplay: 8/10
  
  NFSU is an arcade racer. As such, you shouldn't expect an overly realistic racing experience, but 
 whatever little realism there is really adds to the feel of the game and helps to further enhance 
 a pretty solid arcade racing experience.
  
  Need for Speed features a sizeable amount of cars from a not-so-sizeable amount of manufacturers, 
 the parts to go along with those cars, and about 100 races which you must win in order to both 
 own and upgrade those cars.
  
  There are quite a few racing types in NFSU. Circuit is just like what it sounds, a series of closed 
 race tracks made up of the sections of the city in which you must out-drive your opponents while 
 dodging traffic and finding the best route possible to the finish line.
  
  Sprint races are point A to B type races where there is only one sizeable lap that must be completed 
 either in a limited amount of time or against serious competition from your not-so-smart rivals. 
 Drift and Drag racing are both relatively new additions to the genre and pretty interesting, but 
 ultimately end up being pretty boring.
  
  Drift is inspired by the real life thing in where you attempt to take turns at absurd speeds all 
 the while smoking your tires and posing in cool ways. The way to win this mode is for you to get 
 more points than your opponents. Every time you meet a certain point amount, it gets multiplied 
 by a number (2, 3, 4, 8, etc.) . The more crazy drifts your able to put together the higher the 
 requirement and the higher the multiplier. Drift is actually the games easiest mode, and it ends 
 up being made even easier by the looseness of the "Space" key, which is the handbrake default.
 
  
  Drag, on the other hand, is the exact opposite of drift. Breaking is a forgotten concept, coolness 
 is the least of your concerns, and difficulty can be quite a... well, you know. Drag racing is 
 actually just a straightforward race in which you must perfectly time your shifts and your Nitrous 
 use in order to get in front and stay there. Dodging the traffic and taking the turns at some 150-odd 
 miles isnt easy though. Drag is by far the most annoying and difficult race type in NFSU. Your 
 opponents always seem to time everything perfectly and it seems that no matter how good your car 
 is, theres are always better. This can make for some 2-3 dozen tires per race.
  
  All of these race types can be either played individually or part of the 100+ race career mode.
 
  
  Career mode is, obviously, the meat of the game. Here you start from nobody and you go up to pro. 
 Take your pick from one of the cars in the beginning and then keep on going. As you advance you 
 can unlock more cars, parts and visual modifications.
  
  Too bad that it all seems very "canned". Career mode is hardly "career", it's just a string of 
 races, which must all be completed in order to advance, a bunch of money and a lot of bad lingo 
 put together. As if all of that isn't enough to give the impression of a "canned" mode, the time 
 between the unlockables is so huge that you'll end up with 10s of thousands of dollars in your 
 bank account by the time you reach the 50th, 60th race. This could've easily been solved if you 
 had to buy your car, but you don't. Just trade in your old car for a new one. All the upgrades 
 get transferred and so does all your street cred.
  
  Canned or not, the career mode is worth at least a try... mostly because of the ungodly amount 
 of upgrades and visual tuning your car can go through. It's quite amazing to start from scrap and 
 go to a total street animal in the course of a game. Thanks to real life manufactures such as Apex 
 and HKS everything feels even MORE authentic than it looks. Upgrades range from on-board computer 
 chips, to suspensions, to vinyl, to spoilers, and even PAINT. Hell, the amount of care that went 
 in the paint system alone is amazing. Throw in a whole slew of unique hoods and a good deal of 
 cars and you have what is possibly one of the deepest tuners around.
  
  The actual racing is fun too, thanks, in no small part, to the huge selection of cars available. 
 Everything from Honda Civic, Fiat Punto, to Toyota Supra and Nissan Skyline is included. The cars 
 all have different stats and feel slightly different, but they're not exactly GT differences. Driving 
 is a lot of fun, waving through traffic while holding down the NOS button cannot be any less fun 
 even if they tried, but thanks to a very good feel of speed and pretty well designed tracks they 
 made the racing REALLY fun, as compared to the much lesser "fun".
  
  Too bad for the AI and the actual tracks though. NFSU suffers from dumb AI. Usually the AI doesn't 
 take shortcuts and does a lot of stupid mistakes. Not to mention that once you got in front of 
 the AI they have a real hard time catching up (unless your drag racing) . The tracks themselves, 
 while well designed get repetitive fast. There mustnt be more than 15 of them and racing 100 times 
 with 15 tracks, 7 of which are reserved for Drag and Drift, races can get quite repetitive. This 
 wouldn't be so bad if the AI was smarter but as soon as you catch on to the tracks and discover 
 the shortcuts you'll easily pass the AI by and keep the lead.
  
  The monotony of racing against the AI is broken up every now and then by some timed races. Most 
 of the time these races are easy but some can get quite frustrating, usually later in the game 
 when you can't upgrade and your forced to finish the race to move on. NFSU also seems to control 
 quite well with a keyboard and mouse, hell, I even found drag racing and drifting much easier with 
 the keyboard than with the controller. On the other hand, there is one very annoying bug that appears 
 in the first few moments of a race (maybe the first 30 seconds) and it can become quite damaging 
 to your race: Short 1 or 2 second bursts of slowdown. It seems like the machine is just locking 
 up (I'd assume the game is still loading the track) .
  
  If NFSU has one problem with presentation it would have to be the time of day. Trust me when I 
 say this: By the time you will finish this game you will get sick and tired of driving at night. 
 After a while it just gets annoying to know where traffic is only by looking at their headlights/taillights 
 and night driving just gets trying when you realize there are 10 more racers coming out for the 
 PC with the same "specs".
  
  Multiplayer: 7/10
  
  It's as standard as standard gets. The actual multiplayer features Split-Screen, and online/LAN 
 play for up to 6 players. Everything in the single player game can be played online. You can also 
 take your tuned up cars and race them online against other racers. It's not bad per se, but it's 
 just not much to brag about.
  
  Overall: 8/10
  
  Hood or not NFSU was pretty revolutionary for it's time. Not only did this game introduce real 
 cars to the underground racing scene but it allowed you to modify and do as you pleased with them.
 
  
  Even now, about 2 years after this game came out, it's hard to find anything better... even it's 
 own sequel doesn't rise to the challenge. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamecubedave000
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 26, 2006 6:37 am PT
Review:  A racing game that will change racing games are played. This game is amazing because you can choose 
 from a large selection of cars. And the best part is that you can totaly soup them up and trick 
 them out any way you like! You can put body kits on them that make the car real nice and put new 
 engines and even NOS. The sounds are AMAZING no wonder its THX certified. Doing the acual races 
 are hard because when your in the lead the computer comes out of no where and takes your place 
 so you have to race hard!! Well this game is amazing so buy it now... well thanks for your time 
 bye bye bye 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackal00uk
Rating: 3.7
Date: Jan 25, 2006 4:08 am PT
Review:  Need For Speed Underground (NFSU) is a separate spin off from the popular need for speed series. 
 Where you play an unknown street racer prepared to make his way to the top. The game has undertaken 
 a larger cosmetic makeover then its predecessors which to its credit makes racing experience within 
 NFSU feel very realistic with the motion blur (experienced also in Moto GP) , car and water reflections 
 and beautiful lush environments stretching from the metropolitan city centres to the neon visual 
 galore china town. However to many of these backgrounds are recycled throughout the game and as 
 such much of the game beyond the half way point become repetitious even though the actual tracks 
 differ. To add a certain degree of variation to the gaming experience NFSU has incorporated some 
 interesting game modes. Drift, Drag and sprint which do offer a suitable addition to the standard 
 circuit mode races and indeed allow the player to experience different methods of driving. Another 
 nice feature of the game is the ability to upgrade the car once funds are available. The upgrades 
 are unlocked as you proceed thought the game gaining more higher performance parts and more prize 
 money. The upgrading is not only restricted to purchasing performance upgrades the car can also 
 be changed visually from changing paint colour, adding underlay, stickers of sponsors and modifying 
 modding the car.
  
  The cars within NFSU are fairly realistic in the way they act on the "street" and the way in which 
 they look when compared to there real life counterparts. The only real problem which I experienced 
 with the car handling was that there seemed to be slightly to much over and under steer applied 
 with much of the cars and strangely enough it would occur when the car is not exceeding any where 
 near maximum speeds. However when putting the game into context, considering that this racing title 
 as the other NFS games are more aimed as arcade racers then realistic driving experiences this 
 small quibble can be forgiven. The presentation of the game menu and way in which the racers occur 
 one after another without much interlude (except for tuning and customisation of the car) also 
 help to reinforce the arcade style and feel of the game.
  
  NFSU has a very easy learning curve. The controls are well placed and can be customised so suit 
 players needs if required. Although towards the last twenty races or so the game defiantly increases 
 to a whole new gear and the three difficulty modes (hard, medium and easy) do not seem to have 
 much of a difference between them as the AI cars themselves seem to race particularly identical 
 times through out the race independent of what difficulty setting have been selected. Another problem 
 curious feature that unfortunately has been overlooked by the developer is the annoying way in 
 which the cars behave depending on our own performance within a race. For example if you are commanding 
 a great lead traffic with in the roads in higher populated where you are and the speeds or performance 
 of the trailing cars in also increased to reduce the gap. This strange flaw also works the other 
 way around if you are trailing behind the car in front will respond by running a much slower time. 
 This ridiculous AI really does destroy what could have been a great game instead for much of the 
 game mainly the later stages you will replaying the same level in which you would have probably 
 won eons back if it went for this flaw. If you can overlook this problem then your onto a winner 
 if however you are like me and scrutinise ever oversight within a game then stay away and spare 
 yourself hours of cursing and seeing the same buildings and tracks over and over again, 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: djnet
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 24, 2006 2:13 pm PT
Review:  Need for Speed Underground contains a decent-sized car roster. Right off the bat you'll find a 
 Honda Civic, which is one of the more popular rides in the scene. But the inventory doesn't stop 
 there. You'll also find a VW Golf, Acura Integra, Toyota Supra, S2000, Ford Focus, Dodge Neon, 
 Mazda Miata, and a few more. Though the different cars are rated in handling, acceleration, and 
 top speed, in practice the cars don't drive all that differently, especially once you've purchased 
 some upgrades in the career mode. 
  
  The import racing scene is heavy on modifying cars with aftermarket parts, and Need for Speed Underground 
 duplicates this aspect pretty well. The car upgrades are broken down into visual and performance 
 upgrades. Performance upgrades come in multiple levels and must be unlocked before you can purchase 
 them. These upgrades include turbocharge, better engines, weight reduction, enhanced braking, computer-chip 
 tuning, nitrous oxide boosts, and so on. The game contains a lot of actual aftermarket brands for 
 its parts, so when you purchase an upgrade, you'll have limited control over which brands you're 
 buying, but the brand makes no difference -- all the brand packages perform equally well.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CTOCTOCTO
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 10, 2006 8:06 pm PT
Review:  NFS: U is one of the best looking racing games I've seen, with plenty of DirectX 9 features and 
 cool effects. They will likely bog down even the fastest of computers when you run at high resolutions, 
 but there are plenty of options for tuning performance just the way you like. The real problem 
 I had was that the frame rate was all over the place if the settings were turned up just a bit 
 too high, and it would totally screw up my driving. I wound up having to use medium details at 
 1024x768 resolution with no anti-aliasing to get a smooth ride. So far, the game has been technically 
 sound otherwise - the game didn't crash on me once, and I didn't find any obvious bugs. All I really 
 want to see is a bit more stable of a frame rate when I turn up the resolution.
  
  A few moderately big shortcomings aside, Need for Speed: Underground is a solid racing game with 
 an easy learning curve, arcade-like racing, online play, great graphics, and a distinct style. 
 Its lack of track variety got on my nerves, but there's plenty to be had here both on- and offline. 
 While I may never understand the culture that this game borrows from, I can't deny a pretty decent 
 game when I see it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: showtime4eva
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 9, 2006 5:49 pm PT
Review:  Man this game is good. It keeps you hungry for more. Each turn keeps longing for another one. I think 
 the best in the series. The gameplay is great, once you get accustommed to the controls. the graphics 
 are mad, and there's alot more of a real life feel to it than the others. The pounding rock music 
 just keeps your adrenaline pumping faster and faster. And the roar of the engines just heightens 
 it. Makes you wanna go grab a skyline and and put the pedle to the floor. I just can't get enough. Nothing 
 but good to say. EA really did it this time. I don't think it'll stay on the shelves. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ingwe657
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 30, 2005 4:23 am PT
Review:  need for speed underground is a fine game that appeals to all racing games fans but doesn't come 
 up to my expectations. having played other great racing games such as the gran turismo series i 
 was disappointed by NFSU that seemed to be really ambitious.
  
  first of all i wiil refer to the positive aspects of the game. the graphics hve the classic quality 
 of EA and are just amazing. beautiful cars and wonderfully designed crowd. the landscapes are carefully 
 designed and create a great atmosphere. the music of this game is fantastic, it really rocks!! the 
 tracks are really hot and create a unique atmosphere that excites you since they are really fast 
 and while racing create a need for speed.
  
  however the gameplay of the game was devastating. the races were a bit short and the handling of 
 the car was very easy a not challenging at all. moreover the same places were repeated in different 
 races that made no difference and made the game really boring. the AI was very easy and simple even 
 in the hard mode and easy to beat. while upgrading the car one couldn't understand the difference 
 between the different packages since they had the same effect. the value of the game is rather limited 
 since you soon get bored of it and when you complete it you will no longer bother with it even 
 if you haven't unlocked all the special features.
  
  all in all NFSU was a fine game that satisfied one's need for speed but it proved not to be as 
 fast as it was supposed to be
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: oamorap
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 19, 2005 10:06 am PT
Review:  Voy a ser sincero, no soy muy fiel seguidor de la saga NFS pero definitivamente este juego y su 
 secuela me gustaron mucho.
  
  Que es lo diferente de NFSU con respecto al resto de la saga NFS: primero, aqui no encontramos 
 carros fuera de serie (porsche, ferrari, lamborghini, corvette, etc) , lo que encontramos son vehiculos 
 como los que se ven en la calle cualquier dia. Segundo, tienes la posibilidad de "engallar" (asi 
 se dice en mi pais) el carro, ponerle accesorios para que se vea mejor, mejorar sus partes (motor, 
 llantas, suspension, etc) . Tercero: las carreras son dentro de la ciudad en circuitos clandestinos 
 con trafico. Cuarto: no son solo circuitos, se pueden correr piques, derrapes, sprints (ir de un 
 punto a otro) . Quinto: la musica, esta espectacular.
  
  Mejor dicho esos detallitos que acabo de mencionar y otros que ahorita no me acuerdo, son los que 
 hacen de este juego en mi concepto el mejor de la saga NFS.
  oamorap 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheDarthvader
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 10, 2005 6:15 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game with high anticipation, because it was the next game from EA after the amazing 
 NFS5.
  For the Gameplay, I have to say its mostly an arcade style one. There is no damage on the cars, 
 and thats a pretty big minus point. The cars drift and powerslide pretty realistically. The hand 
 brake works nicely.
  The Graphics were also pretty good looking. Cars were very highly detailed, right down to the model 
 and manufacturer, both of which were visible. The streets and opponents cars were equally well 
 detailed. However, the traffic could have been improved.
  The sound for this game is really nice, the extra EA Trax really puts you into the mood to play 
 another race. The skids sound, the nitrous boost, all of them were really good. However, there 
 is no horn on the cars!
  This game is really different from all others. There is a huge collection of customs, from paints 
 to vinyls, from body bumpers to choosing what brakes you want. This game has it, even lets you 
 have the window tinting color of your own choice. Furthur more you can choose customs rims, mufler, 
 front/rear/side skirts, spoilers etc.
  The only thing I didnt liked is the way the Underground mode works. Its just too long! Way too 
 long! 111 Races! Circuits with 6 laps. It really gets tedious after words and you wish for it to 
 finish sooner. And furthur more, I didnt like the difficulty settings, even on the easy mode its 
 mighty difficult to beat the game (although I did it) , and the stupid traffic doesnt help.
  All in all, I liked this game a lot, and its highly recommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agefreak
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 10, 2005 7:18 am PT
Review:  Okay. Anyone whos associated with even a meager bit of gaming has heard of the monopoly called 
 Need For Speed, at least, thats how I see it. EA, no disrespect meaning, has capitalized on the 
 non-availability of good racing titles for the PC, and as a result, what we have is a franchise 
 which started with a bang, and has been on the decline ever since, barring a couple of exceptions. 
 Ive seen plenty of people drooling over the newer and supposedly better NFS titles being launched 
 time after time, and I must say, I think its more out of desperation than ecstasy. 
  
  Dont take me negatively. Ive never been critical of EAs NFS series.. In fact, theyre the 
 best thing going for the PC. What really disheartens hardcore gamers like me that theyve been 
 continuing with the same old remodeled formula ever since NFS Hot Pursuit was released. Each time 
 they pick a string of cars, throw in the same old game modes, brush up on the eye candy, and theres 
 a new NFS title on the blocks! Frankly speaking, NFS Porsche wasnt really my piece of cake, although 
 it holds a great rep. amongst racing fans. NFS HP2 came with a helluva lot of expectations, but 
 failed to deliver the true potential it held. 
  
  Enter Underground. You think Hot Pursuit 2 was good looking? Wait till you feast your eyes on 
 this baby!! The entire game is based in a night-time environment, and with good effect too. The 
 car and track reflections, the lighting, the models and the special effects, all have been polished 
 to near perfection to present the most exhilarating experience ever in an NFS installment.
  
  The first major change youll notice in the game is the shift in focus of the development team, 
 as far as the setting of the game is concerned. Its bye-bye Lamborghini & co., and welcome Mitsubishi, 
 Subaru, Mazda, Hyundai and all the other Japanese giants. Yes, you can finally test drive the Lancer, 
 powerslide with the Impreza and zoom ahead of the competition with the Skyline, thanks to EAs 
 switch to the Asia-Pacific dynasty of car manufacturers. The cars in itself are a dream. And with 
 tons of visual and performance upgrades on offer, including custom hoods, lights, vinyls, neons 
 (think 2Fast2Furious) , ECUs, Turbos and Nitro boosters, you can simply let your imagination run 
 wild. The Nitros (NOS) are probably the coolest new feature in the game. The teaser gameplay footage 
 let out by EA in the early stages of development was enough to set gamers drooling over the superb 
 motion-blur effects during nitro boosts. These snazzy effects actually make you feel as if youre 
 going faster than you actually are. The effect is superbly done, although its implementation was 
 a touch better in Midnight Club II. Also, such effects will require you to have at least a GeForce 
 3 or better (yeah, I know lifes dung for MX card owners!!!) . But its worth the upgrade, considering 
 the requirements of the resource hungry current batch of games! The tracks are pretty good in themselves 
 too, with all following the Japanese trend shift. Therere plenty of dazzling lights to blind you 
 (maybe Im getting a bit drawn into this..) !! The buildings and side-scenery is also decently 
 done, considering that in a racing game, not much attention goes into these additions. 
  
  
  As far as the game modes are concerned, you have the standard circuit, sprint and knockout 
 modes, along with a breath of fresh air in the form of Drag and Drift modes. These two additions 
 again follow in the lines of the change in setting of the entire game. Drag is a race on a straight, 
 short track chock full of traffic, which tests your gear shifting skills and reactions. Perfect 
 shifts will throw you a notch ahead of the others, while duds will make sure you trail all the 
 way. And dont forget to avoid the traffic. Hit anything at 120 miles per hour and youre a cinch 
 for the city dump! Drift is a mode in which youre supposed to score points by err.. Drifting!!! 
 That basically means you need to powerslide as much as possible as you belt around tight corners 
 in a shortish, multi-lap track. Sounds easy? Try it!!! Can be devilishly tricky, Ill tell you!!!
 
  
  Apart from these instant races, theres an Underground Mode, that lets you play through 112 challenges 
 set by EA, with a rubbish storyline thrown in. There were rumours that EA hired a Hollywood scriptwriter 
 to frame this storyline, but doesnt seem like it!!! These challenges involve all the different 
 game modes in a good mix, and let you unlock the various tracks, cars, visual and performance upgrades, 
 and even special parts. The single player in the game revolves around the Underground mode, and 
 has been fairly well done.
  
  Usually in a game review, I reserve the worst for the last. Its no different in this case. Some 
 of you mightve noticed that I havent touched upon the Multiplayer aspect of the game at all. 
 Thats because the game comes with no LAN support!!! You can of course go online and play on the 
 numerous servers, even with your 56k modems (which, I think is a really good achievement on EAs 
 part) , but LAN is where the real fun lies!! Its a measure of the replayability of the game!! There 
 are patches available that enable you to play NFSU on LAN, but this is a feature EA shouldve included 
 from the start.
  
  Coming to the sound department, its as good as ever. All cars sound subtly distinct. The crash 
 effects are really well done, and so are the voice-overs in the Underground mode. The background 
 music is also good. It features licensed tracks from The Crystal Method, BT, Lil Jon et al a 
 good mix altogether. In fact, Lil Jons Get Low is one of the best opening sequences Ive heard 
 in a long time. But therere only about 20 tracks which keep on getting repeated throughout the 
 game, and EA doesnt let you play your fav. MP3s in-game. What can I say?? GTA has spoilt me!
 
  
  The tracks might give an initial sense of originality, but as you progress, youll see that portions 
 of different tracks have been recycle to make newer ones.. so it seems like youre playing the 
 same old stuff again and again. This is an area where NFS Porsche really stood out. Cant see 
 why EA didnt realize that!!!
  
  All said and done, I must say that EAs finally up to changing some stuff in the installment. The 
 shift in setting was certainly a change well accepted by the entire NFS fan base. A little more 
 effort would be welcome, however, especially in the tracks segment. Think of a cross between Midnight 
 Club II and NFSU Thats where EA should be aiming!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mclazyj
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 23, 2004 11:34 pm PT
Review:  Nowadays, everyone is into the import tuner scene and EA decided that it should focus the next 
 installment of Need for Speed on this type of racing. Need For Speed Underground is the finished 
 product and it is one of the best racing games you will play this year. 
  
  Most racing games are suppose to be about going fast. The problem is that they never convey the 
 feeling of speed. Need for Speed is the first game that I have played in memory that really conveys 
 a sense of moving fast. Especially on higher end machines with the blurring effect on. I recently 
 upgraded to a Geforce 6800GT and I finally got to play the game with the blur effect on and it 
 made for a more hairy ride than without. The cars felt like they were barreling out of control 
 down the street and made me start to duck and pull while I was playing (the absolute sign of immersion) . 
 
  
  The premise of the game is fairly simple. You start out in a choice of eight base rides and have 
 to work your way to the top of the racing heap. You race in four basic race types: Circut, Timed, 
 Drift and Drag. Of the four types, I have to admit that the drag races were the most fun. Mostly 
 because I normally play driving games with auto shifting and this was the first time I was forced 
 into shifting. And it made for a rather thrilling drive. The races take place on several track 
 types, but do tend to get a bit repetative after awhile.
  
  Graphically the game looks great. The lighting and the cars look fantastic and the blur effect 
 I mentioned before was absolutely stunning. Eye candy is easy, but using it effectivly is genius. 
 The sound is also great and for the first time, I actually enjoyed the mix of songs that EA put 
 together for this game. I hope that they put the same amount of time into upcoming games, but if 
 Madden 2005 is any judge of character, they have not.
  
  The game is easy to learn and with over 100 races to complete, will burn away a fair amount of 
 hours before completion. I would not hesitate to tell people to get out and get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scatsofrango
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 23, 2004 1:42 pm PT
Review:  First of all, let me talk about phisycs. This game doesnt follow some Newtons rules, but no problem 
 at all, since is just an arcade, not a real simulation. Car models are OK, and the tunning effects 
 are great (Im thinking to tune my 98 civic based on the game...) .
  In my opinion, the best feature on this game is the sound. Not only nice tracks but also the effects 
 the game bring to you. It contributes to rise the gaming experience to a maximum level.
  In the beggining the game is so easy, but from the 80 Th race till the end it becomes real challenging. 
 The last race isnt so difficult, with a little training you can beat the Nissan 300Z, but the 
 ending of the game is dissapointing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigeric144
Rating: 5.8
Date: Oct 24, 2004 9:02 pm PT
Review:  If you like customization then this game is for you but if you are more of a person that likes 
 to play more realistic games then i suggest project gotham racing 2. This game was all for looks 
 it seemed. Personally I would take this game over it's predecessors but not over the newer racing 
 games that are coming out. One of the most major things that shows the pure unrealism of this game 
 is whenever you crash you do not dent your car. It will say "Totaled" or something of that sort 
 but will not have any visual damage to the car. That just shows pure lazyness by the developer. Perhaps 
 the next one will be better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rattlesnake_8
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 17, 2004 4:43 pm PT
Review:  .. that the cars are now street cars (modified cars) . It is however, just as fun and addictive as 
 the previous Need for Speed games.
  
  There are a number of different cars to choose from. At the start they are all stock, as you race 
 and win you unlock new cars, as well as modifications. In the fun driving modes (no the "underground" 
 mode, or in other words, the campaign) you can unlock many different types of visual modifications 
 ranging from tinted windows to different rims. You can even choose between three different types 
 of paint! Not just the colour. Not to mention choosing the exhaust tip, break calipers, spoiler, 
 head lights, tail lights... there are so many custimisation options avaliable in this game.
  
  The sounds are pretty good. The sound of the gear changes are great and when you use NOS the 
 screen shakes and it really does look great. 
  
  The maps are fun, all are varied but go over parts of other tracks which is interesting how it's 
 done. 
  
  The different game modes are a lot of fun. There are several game types in NFS: Underground. The 
 different onces other than just races are Drag and Drift races. Drag races are simply races done 
 down one stretch of road with no sharp turns. It's all about perfect gear changes are using NOS 
 at the right time. Drift races are all about how long you can slide your car when going around 
 corners. It really is a lot of fun. 
  
  Anyone looking for a new game to play, or those that like racing games, but with a modern street 
 car look, check this out. The sequel is on it's way too so get this before the sequel hits! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuParNovA
Rating: 8.1
Date: Sep 27, 2004 3:38 pm PT
Review:  The meaning is to earn money by racing underground. In the underground you'll get to do 111 missions. 
 If you decide to make the current race (between 1-111) an easy race you get some money (if you 
 win) , medium: you get more and hard: get much more money. With the money you can buy some car parts 
 and accessoires (you unlock those by completing a certain number of races) . By stunting on your 
 way to the finish you deserve style points. The style points are meant to unlock Vinyls (= car 
 paintings) and some cars for the non-underground mode.
  
  If you have unlocked a bit you can customize your underground ride and the unlocked non-underground 
 rides. After some races you can give it some metallic color, a spoiler, some vinyls, a rear bumper, 
 a heavier engine, Nitrous Oxide, some better Turbo, neon pulse and everything else what a tuned 
 car needs.
  
  The races exist in a few gametypes like Drag, Circuit, Sprint, Drift ...
  When playing drag you have to shift from 1 to 5-6 as quick as possible on the right moment. The 
 way between start and finish is mostly made a bit harder with some traffic and is in a straight 
 line, so you can keep your speed. Circuit is like it sounds. You have to race against 3 opponents 
 (like in any other gametype) and go as first 2-7 times over the finish. In sprint you'll have to 
 give some nitrous oxide, because you have to be first on a certain point and in drift you win by 
 haveing the most drift points. You get them by slipping your car trough a parcours and touching 
 as less as possible the wall.
  
  In a race you only have to use the arrows, the brake and the nitrous oxide ( or when playing drag, 
 you'll need the shift) to get the finish. To let an opponent lose some time you can drive your 
 car against his car, and when there's an obstacle you drive just by it, so the opponent crashes 
 on it. Always funny to see and to hear.
  
  Oh yeah ..., the sounds. You get some annoying trax for your cars. The car sounds can be better. 
 I expected something greater when starting and crashing my tuned car.
  
  And ... vry important: The graphics. 
  And that's what the game's missing; good graphics. I don't 
 really like the maps and the cars could be more ... cars. For the rest, the bad thing at the game 
 was that there was no variety in the 111 underground races. But ... I completed it because it's 
 addictive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Epicsoldier
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 26, 2004 12:04 am PT
Review:  EA really did it this time, they made a nice solid car racing game that isn't a flop. A great great 
 game for the race car driver gamer. It's fun, good fun actually. Theres lisenced cars and parts, 
 which makes it realizek, the graphics are near perfect, and the effects in the game are great. 
 The multiplayer is fun, great fun. Theres a number of different types of races, Drag Race, Circuit 
 etc. Most racing games don't have these, theres also drifting and drafting in this game which is 
 very nice. The game is fairly hard though in spots, some races you'll beat really easy, some will 
 take a few trys to beat it. but overall it's still a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeroskillz
Rating: 7.2
Date: May 26, 2004 5:55 pm PT
Review:  To be short and sweet, the game is very good if you enjoy modding cars. What I feel pulled me most 
 away from the game was the constant same maps over and over and over again, it was very tedious 
 very quick. Also when you do upgrades, you can pick which companies you get it from, but it makes 
 no difference, so putting that in there is useless. Also one more thing that dissappointed me was 
 the upgrades, you can do them, but only in packages, you can upgrade individual items, such as 
 just intake, or just exhaust, you do it as a package, so the customization to me seemed focused 
 on making the car look different in the exterior, but the engine components were always the same 
 with the cars you were racing.
  
  Also i played the entire game on hard and rarely had any trouble, wasn't very challenging. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mercclass
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 25, 2004 3:19 pm PT
Review:  This Game is great but it could be so much more. I hope Underground 2 is more immersive and deeper 
 in certain areas. Such as not getting to drive freely around the city like in midnight club to 
 challenge drivers. I wish they would have left in the customizable sound systems as well. Engine 
 accents are pointless when no one gets to see them. Why not a completely clear hood or some place 
 to hang out where you can open your hood to show it off. Why not let your character be able to 
 get out of his car to go into stores and shops to by items. I'm complaining an awful lot about 
 a game that I adore. The graphics are phenomenal, but the driving physics are unrealistic. But 
 it's fun and that's what counts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spiderman18
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 2, 2004 9:43 pm PT
Review:  Now if you're looking for a real street racing game, this game nails it. The graphics are perfect, 
 makes you wonder if you're racing for real. EA Games did a really good job on this game, they couldn't 
 have done any better, it was alot better than Need For Spped: Hot Pursuit 2, which I thought was 
 disappointing. The main point to this game is to get respect on the streets & build up your reputation 
 by getting style points to unlock things, such as clear taillights, spoilers, upgrades, rims, nitrous, 
 anything you can think of. The music's ok, could be better, especially if you're not too much of 
 a rock fan, which upsets me about this game because you can't play custom soundtracks. At least 
 on this version, you have good online challenges for this game, that would've been really fun, 
 other than that its a great game & I recommend this to anyone that likes street racing, its better 
 than Midnight Club 2, that's for sure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dryden555
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jan 17, 2004 8:16 pm PT
Review:  All of the tracks use the same textures over and over again. There are only a handful of circuit-style 
 tracks. Sure the graphics are great but you get bored of the tracks after you drive thru repeatedly. 
 
  
  The handling even with the keyboard is good and the opponent cars are pretty smart about how they 
 drive. The additional modes like the drag racing and power-sliding modes are nice. 
  
  But the Need For Speed series has always been about long drives at fast speeds and this game doesn't 
 offer that. Project Gotham Racing handles this much better: In PGR there are several variations 
 of tracks in several different cities and plenty of variation of tracks over all. 
  
  NFS: Underground in spite of the graphical niceties, feels a bit rushed to market. Perhaps the 
 sequal will be better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rockstarTS
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 4, 2004 6:33 am PT
Review:  OK read this review! Let me tell you about this game.
  
  Overall I like this game but there are just a couple of things about it that bug me to death. Let 
 me spell it out for you. 
  
  First of all I have a problem with the traffic. I can live with the amount there is on the road 
 (though I think its way too much to be a realistic race) but what really bugs me is that the game 
 literally TRIES TO PUT THE CARS IN YOUR PATH!!! For example while on a straight stretch of road 
 youll see a car crossing slowly in front of you timed perfectly so that youll collide with it. 
 Sometimes you have time to swerve and other times you don't. Of course that is to be expected to 
 happen ever now and again but when you see it happening all the time its hard to believe its 
 a coincidence. 
  
  Another problem I have is when you collide with a car. The hang time in this game is ridiculous. 
 Youll barely clip a car while driving and your car will go flying end over end and just stay in 
 the air for what seems like an eternity. Then it will roll over and over and over until youll 
 either be upside-down or facing backwards. Again this is something to be expected when driving 
 at break-neck speeds however the fact that it happens so often annoys me to death.
  
  Let me talk about the drag racing now. Overall I like what theyve done. It works pretty well except 
 for a few things. One thing I have a problem with is their choice of tracks. For example one of 
 the tracks has you racing down a hill like youd find in San Francisco. Come onno one is going 
 to choose that road as a place to race. That coupled with my previously mentioned traffic problems 
 makes that level a chore for me to do. Also there is another serious problem I noticed on that 
 same level. The far outside lanes will branch out a little and then merge back with the two inner 
 lanes a few times during the race. The game is supposed to handle the steering of the car for you 
 so that you can focus more on your shifts. The problem comes when the outer lane first separates. 
 Youll see your car move over trying to follow the lane but it doesnt steer fast enough so you 
 end up running straight into the divider. Even when I was trying to steer it over manually I kept 
 crashing. The only way I could get it to work was to tap the brakes before I got there so I could 
 get over fast enough which pretty much guaranteed me a loss. LAME! I basically gave up on trying 
 to follow the outer lanes and stuck to dodging traffic in one of the two inner ones.
  
  Another thing that bugs me is the AI. There have been times when I got way ahead of the other AI 
 drivers. But no matter how far ahead I got, on the last lap somehow they were able to get back 
 on my tail. Some people would say that the other cars were just driving better but there have been 
 times when I thought I had driven flawlessly (thats how I got so far ahead) and yet they still 
 managed to get right behind me near the end. I swear the game moves the cars up the track to keep 
 them on you no matter how far ahead you are. Whatever!
  
  The whole act of unlocking cars could have been reworked too. At the start of the game youre given 
 a very limited selection of cars to choose from. Fair enoughI chose the Mazda Miata because it 
 had the best stats. So I raced with that car, upgrading it all the while, unlocking another so-so 
 car here and there. I was looking forward to getting a car with real balls. When I finally did 
 get the RX-7 I switched over to that car (all the customizations and modifications transfer over 
 to the new car for those who dont know) and I noticed that my old car, the Miata, was still faster 
 than the RX-7. In other words the Miata, with all my engine mods, was still faster than the RX-7 
 with the very same engine mods. How is that??? I tried doing the same things with the Supra and 
 the 350Z and it was the same thing. My original car was better then they were. That basically gave 
 me no incentive to change and made no sense to me at all. 
  
  For the most part I like this game but after playing it a while all these things started to really 
 bug me. I recommend it to racing fans but if youre not too much of a racing fan I would suggest 
 anything more than a rental. 
  
  BTW your fly is open
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GFofgaming
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 10, 2003 4:41 am PT
Review:  Need For Speed HP2 had a lot of expectations but failed to keep them up. So The guys at EA pulled 
 out the successor to NFSHP2, need for speed underground! IT is totally new era of racing. Built 
 on the modifed hot pursuit 2 engine but believe me, if you see it you wont believe it, the graphics 
 is superb, the cars cast lots of reflectionsof the environment its....... beautiful. The environment 
 is equally superb with wet roads and lots of ligtts of different colour make you feel like the 
 ultimate street racer. But thats not it, the main highlight of this is the ability to modify your 
 car and there are thousands of customization. And of course my personal favourite the n20, it is 
 the upgrade when you press it your car travells at blazing speed, so fast that the environment 
 becomes blurry!! There are simply endless possibities!!
  
  It would have been a lot better if there were a few more tracks but the game itself overcomes this 
 drawback. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Frost451
Rating: 2.2
Date: Nov 30, 2003 7:50 pm PT
Review:  This is with out any doubt the worst need for speed ever. The graphics look stupid, the ground 
 reflects like it was wet yet no rain. All of the cars in the previous Need for Speed that were 
 for most part beyond reach for a majority of us are now replaced by Honda Civics and all manner 
 or riced out neon flashing ghetto blasting crap. The car physics are a total joke, and drift racing 
 is lame. For those of you that dont know the Fast and the furious was NOT a good movie. Most 
 of the kids who are actually driving these phat rides in real life are punk a$$ highschool drop 
 outs. These are same little bastards that are out jacking peoples car stereos on the weekends. 
 Nothing like EA trying to cash in on the ricer envy of most 16 year old teen aged boys. If I wanted 
 to race a Mitsubishi, I would buy one. I love pulling up next to one of these kids with a giant 
 wing on a front wheel drive car LMAO. NFS is dead, if you need proof dont take my word for it, 
 download the demo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yasakani
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 24, 2003 9:41 pm PT
Review:  This game, by far, is the best ARCADE racer I have ever played. Downshifting, powersliding, drafting, 
 drifting, they have it all (exaggerated to fit the arcade genre of course) . One of the best parts 
 in this game is the graphics. The sleek and shiny details in the cars are amazing (excluding the 
 traffic cars/trucks/vans, but those are just obstacles) . The motion blur effect and light trails 
 has been done nicely as well, although motion sickness can kick in some time or another, so you 
 can take them off in the options menu if you want. Reflections are brillantly implemented into 
 the wet streets and cars. Overall, graphics are truly magnificent. The sound features a list of 
 lisenced albums of rap and such, the typical music for car racing (like 2Fast 2Furious) , and it 
 fits. Sound effects are nice; turbo gear shifting, NOS, tires peeling out, its all there. In terms 
 of value, I would have to say PC and PS2 owners will have the upper hand, due to the online gameplay. 
 But the main cake in this game, also known as the Underground Mode, will definately satisfy every 
 console owner as a whole. And it is basically a requirement, if you wish to unlock performance 
 and visual upgrades and more cars. Overall, a must-have for any arcade racing fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TokyoSamurai
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 24, 2003 1:11 pm PT
Review:  the NFS series has always been arcade style racing.
  i don't know what a few here are moaning about.
  
  this game is fast and it helps me to carry 
 on a few more days, then i will take my flight to tokyo, buy the Gran Turismo 4 prologue on december 
 4th and maybe, if they keep their promise, i'll buy the full version and a PS2 on January 6th.
 
  My momo force wheel is already waiting for the lot to arrive
  
  if you want a more realistic approah to racing and tuning, Gran Turismo, and if you have an arcade 
 nearby, try to find Sega F355 Challenge , clutch and 6 gears shift knob.
  
  Need for Speed Underground is all about racing a "car" fast, and all the design is clearly inspired 
 upon the big hit The Fast and the Furious.
  Personally i don't like the California style of tuning up cars and prefer the much more powerful, 
 meaning it's more based on power than looks, original style from japan.
  
  the only thing i don't like about the game is the CPU cars often just get a speedboost out of nowhere 
 and overtake you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raxzor
Rating: 3.5
Date: Nov 24, 2003 12:56 pm PT
Review:  For me Need For Speed was about driving super cars at insane speeds, this game lets you drive lame 
 cars in a sport invented for lossers that like to rev up and go nowhere. The graphics are amazing 
 and that about as good as the game gets. I really think that they should just remake NFS 1 with 
 these graphics and they would have a game that would be breathtaking. 
  
  The levels in this are boring beyond belive, night time wet and city scape are just so boring. 
 What I used to love about NFS was driving say a TVR Cerbera and breakneck speeds through a foresty 
 track then up over a mountain down in to a misty valley. Not down some boring wet strip of tarmac.
 
  
  This game should be avoided at all costs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spike
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 22, 2003 11:28 pm PT
Review:  NFSU is a great game that provides some thrilling albeit frustrating racing. A quick rundown about 
 it is the gameplay is fast and thrilling even though it gets repetetive from a lack of diversity 
 with tracks. The graphics are top notch and they convey an extreme sense of speed which is a must 
 for racing games. Sound is great. Screeching tires meld with a vast library of music to create 
 a very good overall package, and multiplayer (if you can get it to work with a confusing patch) 
 is a great way to keep the game going. 
  
  However, the game does suffer in a few areas. Namely a very limited amount of tracks that don't 
 even vary from each other in the slightest. You'll find yourself taking the same turns and using 
 the same paths but just in a different order. Sometimes this can be nice because it does help overcome 
 NFSU's other major short coming which is a brutally stupid AI system. 
  
  Unless you're one of those people that religously plays racing games, and could probably steer 
 a real car around a course quite well you'll be frustrated to a large degree when playing on tougher 
 settings. This is mainly because the AI uses a Catch Up function that basically gives them amazing 
 precision and speed when they're down by a lot. Sadly though, it doesn't appear to work in the 
 same way if you're the one who is down by a lot. Don't expect to have much leeway if you're up 
 by 10 seconds. The AI will close that gap right quick and punish you brutally for getting lazy 
 or colliding with another horribly frustrating mobile obstacle known simply as other traffic.
 
  
  Frequently throughout the game you'll encounter regular people who are just going for a drive on 
 whatever evening you decided to go racing in the streets. These slow moving obstacles can really 
 add to the game at times, namely when you're behind them or about to go into a turn and you must 
 adjust accordingly. Frustratingly enough you won't encounter most of the traffic doing this. Frequently 
 you'll run into them when they pull out in front of you because the game makes use of trigger points 
 to initiate cross traffic to make sure you're always in your toes. Another great trick of these 
 civilian vehicles is to be at the end of your jump. So when the game switches to a slick cinematic 
 camera you'll be forced to cringe as you realize as soon as you land you are going to run into 
 that van. Event like these cuppled with the Catch Up function of the AI can result in some controller 
 throwing fits of rage especially after you've spent a good 5 minutes on a race.
  
  Other than the seemingly unnecessary sudden spikes of difficulty this is an extremely excellent 
 game that will provide with many hours of enjoyment, and some fast paced action that gets some 
 adrenaline flowing. The fact that NFSU comes sporting a cheaper price than most retail games out 
 there there's no reason that any car or racing fan should not make this game part of their library. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xyre
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 21, 2003 9:39 pm PT
Review:  Like previously stated, this is not a simulation, rather an arcade-style racing game. I personally 
 enjoy the arcade style more then simulation becuase you can sit down and pull of a couple races 
 before work, or right after lunch. You don't have to worry about anything complicated, just hit 
 the gas and go. And thats pretty much what NFS: U is, a fast-paced arcade game. You start out with 
 a stock based car, and you earn money and style points to customize your car into your own personal 
 street machine.
  
  The gameplay is generally the same throughout the game. In each race mode, your race on similar 
 tracks (many of which are the same, this walled differently) . Your major objective is to win, get 
 money, unlock parts, buy new parts, add decals, get a higher reputation, rinse and repeat. One 
 thing that keeps you from turning off due to boredom is the enjoyment of seeing your own unique 
 street car racing on the track. You can customize everything down to the color or your brake calipers, 
 which gives you so much flexibility, the chances of 2 cars being the same is extremely rare.
  
  THe graphics are incredible. Kudos to EA for that. THe atmoshpere is sharp and the cars are 
 sharper, with real time reflections (not the preanimated ones of previous NFSs) , light trails, 
 and the wonderful motion blur. And even with all this, the framerates are relatively well (considering 
 your hardware of course) , in that you can race without any problems of stuttering or funny looking 
 graphics.
  
  The sound is alright. I mean, its still good and all, but some things could have been improved 
 on, just small things. For example, different mufflers make different sounds, I noticed none. Its 
 small things like that, otherwise the atmoshperic sound, and the engine sounds are all pretty good.
 
  
  $40? Great! You get everything you could want in an arcade racing game, for cheaper then the average 
 game.
  
  In conclusion, if yer into rice cars and have a love for arcade style racing, then this is the 
 perfect game for you. If you want realism, look somewhere else (like Gran Turismo for instance) . 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mbush27
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 21, 2003 1:14 pm PT
Review:  I wasnt expecting much out of the game, but I needed something to fill my void while I wait one 
 more week for X2: The Threat.
  
  To my surprise, I find this game very entertaining. Sure, if you are into simulations, which I 
 am as well, this is not the game for you. If you are looking for an arcade driving type of a game, 
 well this more than anyone can desire.
  
  The elements like graphics and sounds are well done. The gameplay is fun, fast, and furious. I 
 love pimping out my cars, and that is really where the entertaining aspect of this game really 
 shines. You can make your car look like anyway you want.
  
  The different game modes are fun as well, they are not realistic, but then again they are funand 
 I guess after all that is what matters. 
  
  There are many exciting enjoyable moment in the game. For example, in one drag race I was going 
 130mph and climbing, and next to me was an opponent we were nose to nose. Traffic was everywhere 
 but both he and I took our chances and kept on our linewe both came close to hit traffic going 
 perpendicular to us. He began taking the lead on me, and when I saw that we were coming to finish 
 line, I hit the nitro oxide, and I basically won by a hair. Now, that experience like many other 
 ones, really make this game worthwhile, as long as you are not looking for 100% realistic gameplay.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rdez6173
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 21, 2003 8:55 am PT
Review:  NFS: Underground is a lot like it's predecessors. It is an arcade-style racing game that is designed 
 to be one thing: FUN. The point of the game is to earn style and respect points to unlock features 
 like body and engine upgrades. The points-based nature is similar to other arcade-style racing 
 games and offers up nothing new.
  
  If you are looking for a racing simulation that is 100% based on reality, look elsewhere. Don't 
 waste your money on this game if you spend most of your days racing your real car and expect there 
 to be similarities. The game was built to be entertaining (in hollywood style) and doesn't bother 
 bogging you down with details like gear ratios, etc.
  
  One of the best features is the fact that you can just pick this game up and start playing.
  
 
  Similar to all other arcade-style games, this game will try to maintain the challenge level by 
 keeping AI cars on your tail. The only way you will obliterate the competion is to compete on the 
 easiest level. If you race on medium or hard settings, the AI cars will give you a run for your 
 money.
  
  My only issue is that you can't create a race against an inferior car. Even in practice mode, the 
 computer chooses vehicles with the same performance upgrades as yours. This is great, but sometimes 
 i want to see how badly i can smoke the competition if they are using stock parts.
  
  The graphics are pretty sweet. There's a lot of eye candy. One goofy thing is that all of the streets 
 are wet, i guess this is in line with the hollywood styling. I'm pretty sure EA was trying to give 
 the user the experience of being in movies like "The Fast and the Furious".
  
  The sound is pretty decent. There is some nice variety in sounds. You will even hear the turbos 
 spool up and you'll hear the blow-off valve when you shift. The other engine noises are varied 
 and appropriate.
  
  Gameplay is pretty straight forward. There are several modes, all of which you will experience 
 in the career (underground) mode. There's plenty of variety in races to keep you entertained, though 
 after the first round through the different styles, you don't really see anything new except for 
 maps.
  
  There are also some cut scenes in career mode that try to build a little atmosphere. These usually 
 just seem corny, but they happen so seldom that it's not a problem.
  
  One nice feature is car customization. You can tweak the look of your car in a bunch of different 
 ways. You can even save cars for later use. It's fun to play around with the different decals, 
 colors, rims, etc. This adds some limited replay value.
  
  For even more replay value, you can take your cars online and race against real people. I haven't 
 taken the game online thus far, but i imagine it's the same as the single player mode, but with 
 real player instead of AI.
  
  Bottom line: If you want a racing simulation, look elsewhere. If you want a game that is entertaining, 
 with decent replay value, go ahead and buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ndenny2003
Rating: 3.4
Date: Nov 19, 2003 11:35 pm PT
Review:  This game is the worst NFS game yet. It does not deserve the NFS name. It should be called Need 
 for Pretty Graphics With no Driving Model or Connection to Reality. No matter what cars are in 
 the game, the driving model is SO console it is horrible to play. After the first 3 NFS games they 
 have just been getting worse and worse. Maybe the developers should call the ones who made NFS 
 1 or 2 or actually play those games and see what a driving game should be like. For instance: 1) 
 This is a console thing from way back; I do not know the exact name for it, but I call it handicapped 
 code, no matter what upgrades you have or skill level you pick the computer guys are always catching 
 up to you and the same goes for you. You can race the computer guys and they are right there with 
 you. Crash once and then you run them down in no time only to suddenly slow down so that your car 
 is now the speed it was before the crash. 2) In the drag race mode upgrades also do not seem to 
 matter much here. You somehow get a decent boost of speed with a perfect shift and somehow slow 
 down about the same amount if you over rev it. It does not come even remotely close to a car that 
 is over revved. Instead of the power dropping off like a normal car, the car slows down after the 
 shift, where in real life it would actually accelerate better from the shift point on then when 
 shifting at lower revs or what is called a perfect shift in this game. Also instead of paying for 
 the use of all the cool music (NOT) , how about working on the sound of the engines a bit more. 
 More often then none when you do not have a big shift light shining in your face, you use the feel 
 of the car or sound of the motor to shift. I always have the radio off at the track when I drag 
 my 690HP 68 Mustang with its port fogger NO2 system. I use a shift light, but I can shift it by 
 ear even with the helmet on just as good. I also like the Nitrous touch that they add to the game. 
 It could not be further from real life. For all you kiddies out there NO2 does not give you more 
 top speed. It is best used during acceleration from like second or third gear on up. It is also 
 much, much, more complicated then just pressing a button. You really need to be in a certain RPM 
 range to activate it. And flames do not shoot out of your exhaust because of it. If that were really 
 happening on NO2 you would not be getting the power out of it and the exhaust valves would be toast 
 in a few seconds. I do not care what you saw in the Fast and the Fictitious 1 or 2. The ignorant 
 developers probably saw those movies too and that is about the extent of what they know about cars. 
 This is my all time biggest problem with games like this. I bought the stupid thing why is everything 
 cool locked? Last time I bought a PT52 Turbo for my 517HP and 733 FT/LB torque GMC Typhoon; they 
 did not really seem to care about my style points, or if I had stickers on my windshield or car. 
 The game should be based on money. You buy what you want with it, and race within you and your 
 cars ability. That is very simple, very realistic, and it would make it so much more interesting. 
 There are guys in real life, who spend 5-10K on car modifications and some of their cars cant 
 get out of their own way. Too bad for them that they cant just buy a level 1, 2, or 3 engine/drive 
 train/suspension upgrade. It seems that FPS games are going for more realism and better graphics, 
 while car and air games are just becoming Direct X 8/9 shows with some controls in them. Oh yeah 
 and why do all the roads look wet the entire time? Are they waxed? 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
