-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Need for Speed: High Stakes
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/driving/needforspeedhighstakes/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul  9, 1999
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.6
Critic Score: 8.3, 19 Review (s)
User Score: 8.6, 1,190 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Electronic Arts
Developer: EA Seattle
Genre: Racing
Date:     Sep 29, 1999 &raquo;  
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It plays very much like Need for Speed III, but with some extra play modes and one big added feature. 
 

 I reviewed Need for Speed III more than a few months ago and loved the game. It had a few shortcomings, 
 but they were minor and insignificant compared with the outstanding gameplay and graphics. When 
 I first played Need for Speed III, I thought it was vastly superior to Need for Speed II. Now that 
 I've played the next Need for Speed game, High Stakes, I have to ask myself: Does it surpass the 
 third installment as easily as the third surpassed the second? Not exactly. That doesn't mean the 
 game is bad or even worse than Need for Speed III. It just isn't a huge leap in terms of graphics 
 and gameplay.  

 Those who buy this game should realize that it plays very much like Need for Speed III, but with 
 some extra play modes and one big added feature.  

 The biggest feature added to the game is car damage, which we've all been crying for since the inception 
 of this fine arcade racing series. I'm happy to say that on this count, the game benefits greatly 
 from damage modeling. All cars have ratings for body, engine, suspension, and handling. Too many 
 bumps, scrapes, and crashes will bring those ratings down. At first, the damage is subtle, but 
 once you start racking up the collisions, you'll see the car's body start to warp, the windshield 
 and windows break, and the engine start to smoke. Tires will be off kilter, and you'll notice the 
 performance of your car suffering commensurately. There is no way to fix your car during a race, 
 so you are in a bind should the damage be extensive. There is a status window on the top right 
 corner of your screen, though, so you can monitor your damage and respond accordingly. You might 
 want to be less reckless if you see the red damage-indicator bar overtaking the blue status bar. 
 For Need for Speed purists who don't want to play with damage, this option can be toggled off. 

 Although damage cannot be repaired within a race, it can be repaired between races if you are playing 
 in the new career mode. Unlike the tournaments in Need for Speed III, this career mode has higher 
 stakes attached to it, if you'll pardon the pun. You start you off with a wad of cash and asked 
 to purchase a lowly BMW Z3 or a Mercedes SLK 230. Then you enter a series of circuits organized 
 into tiers. As you advance through the tiers, you earn more money, which you can use to repair 
 your car between races, upgrade your existing cars, or buy new vehicles. There are three different 
 types of circuits in the career play mode. There are regular races, where you try to amass the 
 most points over three or more tracks. There is a knockout mode, where the last-place finisher 
 in each race is eliminated from the circuit. And there is a high stakes mode, where it's you against 
 one other driver with your cars on the line. Each circuit has an entry fee and offers the finishers 
 varying amounts of cash depending on how they placed. In the high stakes mode, your entry fee is 
 your car, and the prize is the loser's vehicle. It's a quick way to earn a car but also a very 
 quick way to lose one.  

 With ten tiers to race, and multiple circuits within each tier, there is a lot of gameplay in the 
 career mode. The career mode also cleverly forces you into making hard choices on how to manage 
 your car and money. Do you pay the $8000 to upgrade your car's suspension and engine, or do you 
 save the money and hope you can win enough in the next race to buy an all-new ride? The additional 
 car damage and repair costs also force you to race a little smarter. In addition, persistence is 
 rewarded, as successive victories unveil more expensive levels of cars, bonus cars, and bonus tracks. 

 It would be too much to ask of a gamer to play through the entire career mode in one sitting, so 
 the game does save your progress, although you don't have the option of saving between races in 
 a circuit.  

 Aside from the career mode, there are other modes of play that make their return, as well as some 
 new ones we haven't seen before. There is the normal arcade mode, where you only commit to one 
 race at a time, as well as Need for Speed III-style tournament play. Then there is the police-chase 
 hot pursuit mode, which is more robust in this version. There is the previous mode of hot pursuit 
 but also two new versions, both of which add a twist to the gameplay and even more value to the 
 overall package. Once again, though, not all cars are available in hot pursuit.  

 Of course, then there are all the options that the Need for Speed series is known for. You can tweak 
 all your cars, adjust graphic details, and toggle off various gameplay elements like weather, night 
 driving, and the existence of traffic. There is a spectacular car showcase that has a slide show, 
 inside view, and detailed specs on all the cars. And lastly, there is the full suite of multiplayer 
 options, although EA's Internet racing network still isn't final at this stage.  

 There is really very little to criticize about this game. Some of the graphics aren't great, such 
 as the dust-cloud sprites. And some of the tracks are boring, with little ambient detail. I thought 
 the soundtrack was a weak imitation of Wipeout's, with some annoying animal noises thrown in for 
 bad measure. There is also the matter of the feel of the gameplay being similar to Need for Speed 
 III. High Stakes doesn't feel like a sequel, even though it is a very good game on its own.  

 
 In essence, Need for Speed: High Stakes is Need for Speed III with car damage, a new career mode, 
 new cars, and new tracks. It plays like its predecessor but just has so many more extras. If you 
 already own Need for Speed III, you have to decide whether those new features are worth the asking 
 price. But if you don't have Need for Speed III, then this will be a rare treat among PC racing 
 games. You'll enjoy the graphics, the fast gameplay, and the plethora of cars and tracks at your 
 disposal.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (15 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: danielreader22
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 29, 2008 10:56 pm PT
Review:  NFS High Stakes is a great racing game with over 20 different cars to choose from (but for some 
 reason I can't reverse) and 18 tracks to choose from! Even the ones from NFS III! And If you're 
 looking for cops, this is the best place to get them. With 6 cars to choose from, you can do alot 
 of things! You can, se up a spike strip, call of a roadblock, call for backup, you even have a 
 helicopter, AND even change cop cars! Ones you can pick as your starting car. Such as the regular 
 cruiser in Atlantica. And there is an all-new career mode where you can work your way up the NFS 
 tours and make upgrades to your car! This game has the best gameplay you can ever find in a racing 
 game with real damage and awesome car graphics! There are even different siren sound for each NEW 
 track! Not the old ones unfortunately. Graphics are awesome and the graphical collsion can't get 
 any better and the A. I. is VERY smart. If you want a good and intense cop chase, (suspect or not) 
 you'll definetly want to buy this game! Overall, 9.5!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dainsanereview
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 22, 2008 2:25 pm PT
Review:  need for speed high stakes it's not drug dealing it's a racing game. the game is pretty good there 
 are about 30 different tracks to unlock and choose from u can also can race and do pursuits and 
 catch the race cars as many as u can in a time limit and u can do quick race u can go to settings 
 and adjust the graphics of the gameplay and the diffuclty in race mode but otherwise this game 
 is awesome but they could of made it a little bit harder but no charachters to select from there 
 are a large variaty of cars and such u can race as corvettes , lamboghinis, mclarens, mercedes 
 , and bmw's
  but no ROCKET SHIPS! carerr mode is where u get to race in tournements to get prizes and such u 
 do this so u can buy cars and sell cars to make money u can also pink slip your car or risk it. soun 
 quality is good throught.
  graphics 8
  control 9
  gameplay 9
  soun 8
  bottom line it gets a good 8.5 Bam and Wlam. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Andreaz1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 10, 2008 4:27 am PT
Review:  Yes, very much like NFS III: Hot Pursuit but better graphics some new cars, a whole lot of new 
 tracks to race on, and the biggest difference: damage! The whole new career mode is also a good 
 thing, you can buy cars, sell cars, and even tune them if you would want to. The difficulty level 
 increases with every Tournament, as does the rewards, and you can feel it! When you progress in 
 the game, you get access to new cars in new classes. All from BMW Z3 and Mercedes SLK in the beginning, 
 all the way to the McLaren F1 GTR and Mercedes CLK-GTR in the end. You might think that when you 
 have finished career mode, you finished the game, right? Wrong. Totally wrong, since you don't 
 actually unlock anything more than the cars in career mode, everything else, like tracks, and police 
 cars, you unlock by playing Hot Pursuit mode, Tournaments, and knockouts. But, sadly, everything 
 can get a bit boring, because that's just about all you ever do. One thing, that I really love 
 about this game, is the Multiplayer split-screen mode, something that all games should have today 
 really. That, and I never understood the Multiplayer feature. The music in this game is so awesome, 
 I have all the tracks on my PC, memories comes back every time I listen to them. This was Need 
 For Speed at it's best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aschuhart
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 26, 2008 2:29 am PT
Review:  Need for Speed: High Stakes basically took Need for Speed III: Hot Pursuit and improved the game 
 in certain areas that people wanted the most. The biggest change in this game was the addition 
 of car damage and it's effect on performance. This was something that was missing from Need for 
 Speed III that a lot of it's fans wanted. New cars and tracks were also added, as well as keeping 
 the original tracks from Need for Speed III. The car physics were also updated with this game, 
 but without going overboard so it still has that arcade feel instead of a simulation. The pursuit 
 cops also got a few updates and new ways to stop/slow down speeders. The graphics were also updated 
 making a nice looking game look even better. All in all, High Stakes is a great game and a great 
 addition to the Need for Speed series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thatmy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 26, 2008 10:41 am PT
Review:  NFS High Stakes is the first pioneer batch of game equiped with many game features such as car 
 damages, tweak all your cars, adjust graphic details, and toggle off various gameplay elements 
 like weather, night driving, cash management and the existence of traffic except No Cops Chasing. 
 High Stakes' interface and theme are simple and friendly user comparing to Pro Street which created 
 a great deal of energy pissing us off with their new interface and theme. lol.
  
  Push your car to the limits in High Stakes racing for prize money to customize and buy your dream 
 cars. Gamble your car on single races or develop your career. Cars can be damaged and a new Hot 
 Pursuit mode has been added requiring you to avoid being caught by the police. Features eighteen 
 models of cars on nineteen courses. 
  
  Need for Speed MEANT to be PLAYED in arcade driving game mode and not school driving session game 
 mode like Pro Street. iMAO! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DGDFDGFBBYT
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 17, 2008 12:31 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: This Need For speed game i think its the best in the series because there allot of things 
 to do in this game that you will enjoy like theres arcade races you race for fun you can be the 
 cop and know how it feels like and there multiplayer too but there still career that you have to 
 do and its very realistic if you cars broken you can repair it and its a very challenging game. 
 And in the career if you get a gold metal you get money and you move on to the next challenge.
 
  
  Graphics: The graphics are good for a old game but i think there good.
  
  Sound: The sound is extreme you can hear the cops alarm like when they pass you its like a big 
 wind chasing at you its impressive you can hear the cops talking to you when you get arrested and 
 its very enjoyable.
  
  If and thats the youre looking for a racing game with allot of impressive cars thats the game you 
 sould be looking for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ice-Cube
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 17, 2006 7:01 am PT
Review:  This game is by far the Best in it's series. It's great with a friend and will always be a "Classic" 
 NFS Game.
  
  This is what made NFS besides Hot Pursuit, it perfected the Pursuit Mode and being able to switch 
 from one car to another was great.
  
  I have been playing the NFS Series since it's first game in the 90's and it's one of the best out 
 there to date.
  
  It would be nice if they re-created this game to their current engine in NFS Most Wanted and have 
 Online Team Play.
  
  Career Mode, I would give it an 8.5 they could have made it better but overall it's another great 
 aspect of the game. Watch out for damage as it tends to get annoying but once you learn how to 
 come across a corner with ease, it won't be too hard to over come.
  
  Single/Regular Races, I would give it a 7.9, not the greatest part of the game as you do have to 
 squeeze every second at a corner to get past the racers.
  
  Pursuit Mode, I would give it a 9.3, This is the best part of the game. Run from the cops or be 
 the cop. Choose from a variety of Police Cars, Street Races or exotics.
  
  You could always download customized cars & tracks online.
  
  I would go back to this game 
 in a heartbeat if they re-create it and add more race types and customizable cars (not like underground) . 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Prince_Queen
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 20, 2006 1:50 pm PT
Review:  ... serie je graficky uchvatna, hratelnostne bozska a zabavne uzasna. Tam, kde se ostatni zavodni 
 hry snazi navazat na kopirovani jinych, vzal si 4. dil teto oblibene herni serie to nejlepsi ze 
 vsech *svych* dilu a opepril skvelym atmosferickym kabatkem. Je zde nekolik modu, verzi singleplayeru, 
 multiplayeru a koneckoncu i velka "kariera". Spousta nadhernych rychlych aut, skvele trate (mimo 
 jine hra obsahuje take vsechny trate z 3. dilu) a fantasticky zpracovana hudba. Moc paradni zalezitost, 
 alias luxusne a sexy receno - N4S. Nejlepsi dil teto serie a jedna z nejlepsich zavodu na PC vubec, 
 neni pochyb.
  
  A rozhodne prinejmensim ta graficky zpracovana mlha nema konkurenci ani dnes. Voala. Electronic 
 Arts. Psal se rok 1999 a vsechno bylo fajn.
  
  A dnes? Underground 2 je sice velice zabavne, ale nema ducha. A ten tady rozhodne nechybi. Berte 
 to! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CTOCTOCTO
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 6, 2006 9:42 pm PT
Review:  Well, if you are not the betting kind, you can always stick to the arcade modes. In truth, they 
 aren't to be missed and this is as complete a driving game as any even if you never enter a career 
 race. The cop chases are back of course, and running speeders off the road with your sirens wailing 
 has never been better. The variety of high-speed favorites is there, along with plenty of special 
 edition goodies to unlock as you progress through the tracks. 
  
  While you certainly can gamble within the game, EA has done anything but gamble. They've packed 
 this package with a whole lot of the punch you expect from the NFS series. It may be a predictable 
 whollop, but it's as solid as if it had come from a Tyson fist, without the bizarre sharp teeth 
 on your ear. Okay, so it isn't shaking any trees ala Driver, but the draw-in is on the horizon 
 like it should be and the roads have curves dammit. Some of us don't like to feel like we're driving 
 around Sim City.
  
  Speaking of roads, the curves are pretty extreme at times and these roads are a lot more narrow 
 than previous NFS incarnations. I've complained bitterly about the track loops of NFS 2 & 3 after 
 being spoiled with the meandering highways of the original NFS, but even on this prior annoyance 
 I've loosened up a bit and find myself going with the status quo. The loops make a whole lot of 
 sense when it comes to the cop chases, especially when you've fallen behind on your prey and realise 
 you can just do a 180 and catch them the other way.
  
  Visual Treat not a Polygon Hog?
  
  NFS: High Stakes is a sight to see. On my first game I had to deal with my wife making comments 
 over my shoulder about the beauty of the scenery and the realism of the effects. I personally prefer 
 a racer with the slickness of Daytona or Ultimate Race, but I couldn't help but admit that this 
 latest and greatest from EA looked pretty good. Speedwise, it ran very smoothly on my PII-266 / 
 Voodoo 3 combo and it looked even better on a PII-450 / Riva TNT-2 equipped machine. In my opinion 
 however, those are still pretty hefty specs, but the game was still moderately playable on a P200MMX 
 / Voodoo. I would have appreciated a little more scalability, but I didn't expect that from this 
 series.
  
  The different weather environments slowed down all of the machines, but they certainly add to the 
 wow factor. Flying dust quickly becomes mud that sticks to your windshield and snow is just hard 
 to see through. Even without the weather, dustballs have a tendency to kick up as a car spins out 
 at the side of the road. Very stunning.
  
  The sound, again didn't thrill me, but I appreciated the "play your own music" option. I've played 
 all of the previous NFS games with the sound OFF. Not only is the grating power-chord music very 
 irritating, but the crunches and screeches of the cars still have that fingernails-on-chalkboard 
 feel. Apparently the folks at EA get these sounds from actual vehicles, but they still sound horridly 
 canned to me. And after swapping discs a few times back and forth I once again gave up and plunked 
 my music CD in my walkman, like I usually do.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: richardc269
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 12, 2005 11:58 am PT
Review:  I think this game is really good, even with so called "Bad Graphics" as this other guy might say. 
 But graphics don't mean squat, anyone who think I'm wrong, is a square. Only "true gamers" will 
 think graphics don't mean squat, and I'm one of those people, because if it's a good game, I will 
 never get bored of playing it. Although if it's not my type of game, I probably won't play it as 
 much. Everyone has their own preferred game type, mine are RPG's, Racing and maybe a couple Strategy's, 
 and a few FPS's. But as for High Stakes, I like it, and the graphics are fine the way they are. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blackhawk722
Rating: 7.9
Date: Oct 18, 2005 8:17 pm PT
Review:  I have played other games in the Need For Speed series, and although others may be better in terms 
 of graphics, no other one has as good of game play as High Stakes. The main things that draw me 
 two it is the police aspect of the game. The original hot pursuit (Need For Speed III) was ok, but 
 it is far better in High Stakes. Every thing worked very well for me with this game and I love 
 it. The sounds are great, and the game play is just great. The career mode is very well done and 
 challenging. It is not to hard, but it is hard enough that you have to be really concentrating 
 when you play, if you want to win. I also like the fact that careful driving is rewarded, because 
 the less damage you get the less money you have to spend on repairs. Speaking of the damage system, 
 a superb job was done on that. The game would just be to easy without that. For example I could 
 of gotten a better car sooner, but I had spent over $70,000 in repairs for my corvette. Anyways, 
 I believe that this is the best Need For Speed game ever made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: twillingate
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 10, 2005 4:11 pm PT
Review:  This is an excellent game, with terrible graphics. I love the career mode, you can make money, 
 kind of like GT3 A-Spec (which I have also reviewed) , I love games where you can start a racing 
 career. Let me talk about the graphics for a while, they aren't too bad, but nothing like any of 
 the new Need For Speed games (nfs underground) , those games have excellent graphics. I like the 
 choice of cars, and the hot pursuit where you can be a police officer is cool, you can get backup 
 and have a police team and try to give people tickets and arrest them... I don't play this game 
 much, I've had it for a very long time now, so I am getting a bit bored of it. But it is good value. 
 My little cousin (who I include in some reviews because he loves games, he's 5 years old) loves 
 this game. he doesn't know much about graphics. :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dodger26
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 22, 2005 10:13 pm PT
Review:  This was my first game of the Need For Speed series and also my favorite. The graphics are pretty 
 bad, even for that time, but the rest of the game is nothing but pure fun.
  
  The impressive line-up of cars really contributes to the awesomeness of the game. The sound effects 
 of the engine and all are really well developped. Some cool features include the car compare and 
 the car history, where you get a brief timeline of the car you are driving. Plenty of hidden passages 
 in maps and secret cars to unlock. Just plain fun I tell!!
  
  But the best part of this game is by far the cop pursuit mode. It IS the most developped cop pursuit 
 mode in any game I have ever played. There are so many more features on this one, it's almost ridiculous. 
 Simple stuff like how fast the suspect is going, or the spike strip, switching cop cars, etc....
 
  
  Your driving game collection is not complete without this classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DirtyHarry26
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 15, 2004 10:39 pm PT
Review:  There are lot of cool features in this game. First of all: the impressive lineup of cars. Just 
 like every other game in the series, there are many exciting cars. From the cutting edge McLaren 
 F-1 to the cheap (well cheaper) BMW Z3. With also many bonus vehicles like the Camaro modified 
 and the Lamborghini police car.
  
  Which leads me to my second good point: the police mode. Of all the Need for speeds, this one has 
 the best police car pursuit mode. On the screen you have a lot of info about the suspects, you 
 can see how fast they are driving over the limit. You can switch police cars very easily and set 
 up spikes just as easily.
  
  But the graphics are bad, even for that time. The scenerie around the courses are quiet and boring, 
 not many hidden passages are to be found and the details of the cars were very poor.
  
  But overall try this game out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Epicsoldier
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 25, 2004 1:42 am PT
Review:  If your a racing fan, this is a good game to have, it's full of great great cars, alot of tracks 
 and theres cops. Unlocking/buying certain cars might not be all so easy, well atleast the nice 
 cars. But the online/lan part of this game rocks!. Me and a friend played this game for countless 
 hours on lan, being the cops and chasing them down, it's just plain fun. However, for the comps 
 we have today, this game doesn't do much, graphicly it's pretty good for the time when it came 
 out. But if you have a slower or older comp then this would be a nice game to have. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
