-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Need for Speed: Hot Pursuit 2
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/driving/needforspeedhotpursuit2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 21, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.2
Critic Score: 7.3, 17 Review (s)
User Score: 8.0, 1,722 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Electronic Arts
Developer: EA Canada
Genre: Racing
Date:     Oct 21, 2002
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It certainly is a good arcade-style driving game, but it's nowhere near as fun as the PlayStation 
 2 version. 

 A few weeks ago, Electronic Arts released three versions of Need for Speed: Hot Pursuit II simultaneously. 
 This sequel to the 1998 arcade-style driving game was made available for the PlayStation 2, Xbox, 
 and GameCube, but interestingly enough, not all three games were identical. While the PS2 version, 
 which was developed by Black Box, is a wholly satisfying racing game with great graphics and a 
 visceral sense of speed, the Xbox and GameCube versions of Hot Pursuit II are noticeably tamer 
 in terms of control, graphics, and sound. That's because those two versions of the game were developed 
 by a completely different company, EA Seattle, in order to ship on time alongside Hot Pursuit II 
 for the PlayStation 2, which Electronic Arts considers to be the primary version of the game. Unfortunately 
 for PC game players, EA didn't port the superior PS2 version of Hot Pursuit II to the PC. Instead, 
 PC owners get a port of the less spectacular GameCube and Xbox versions of Hot Pursuit II. That's 
 not to say that Hot Pursuit II for the PC is bad. It certainly is a good arcade-style driving game, 
 but it's nowhere near as fun as the PlayStation 2 version.           Hot Pursuit 2 is an arcade-style 
 racer.    

 Need for Speed: Hot Pursuit II is not a driving simulator. It's not Grand Prix 4, and it doesn't 
 set out to be. This game is all about arcade-style racing, where car-handling properties are wildly 
 exaggerated, and physics are more like loose suggestions, rather than strict laws. Nonetheless, 
 like all of the previous games in this series, Hot Pursuit II has a number of highly coveted car 
 licenses from American and European manufacturers like Lotus, Lamborghini, Dodge, Chevy, BMW, Mercedes, 
 and the two most prestigious car makers, Ferrari and Porsche.   

  As its name implies, Hot Pursuit II largely focuses on the art of outrunning the law. Actually, 
 Hot Pursuit II is like two games in one. Unlike other racing games, this one has two equally large 
 championship modes, only one of which involves the police. Called "hot pursuit," this career mode 
 is composed of 33 individual racing events that force you to beat a number of opponents, while 
 contending with the police, through a handful of different race types. In contrast, World Championship 
 mode is laid out in a branching manner, and in this mode, you're required to successfully finish 
 one race before unlocking the next. As you'd expect, your opponents will get tougher, your goals 
 harder to achieve, and the police less forgiving as you progress through this tree. The police 
 will come after you if you break the speed limit, and since you must cross the finish line before 
 your opponents do, you'll be breaking that limit constantly. At first, the cops will just send 
 a couple of Crown Victorias after you, but if you refuse to pull over, they'll pull out all the 
 stops to bust you. Much like in Grand Theft Auto III, the number of cops that are thrown at you 
 is measured by the number of stars in the center of the screen. When this meter is full, the police 
 will place barricades and spike strips on the roads, they'll chase you with faster cars, and they'll 
 even call in a helicopter that drops, of all things, explosive barrels in front of you. If the 
 police manage to pull you over just once in a given race (you get three strikes in the PS2 version) , 
 you'll have to start all over.   

  However, that sounds more foreboding than it really is. Hot Pursuit II starts off relatively easy: 
 You'll be driving "low-end" cars like the Lotus Elise and Opel Speedster, as will your competition, 
 and the cops will go easy on you for the most part. As you work your way through the 33 missions, 
 the competition will gradually get stiffer, but never to the point of being frustrating. The other 
 cars are ruthless -- they'll take every opportunity to give your rear bumper a not-so-friendly tap, 
 though they themselves are by no means perfect. You'll often see other racers plow into oncoming 
 traffic or miscalculate a turn and ricochet off a wall or guardrail. You'll do that too, especially 
 with some of the faster cars. While the physics in the game are by no means realistic, the cars' 
 performances are still reflective of their real-world counterparts, although in a much exaggerated 
 manner. The Ferrari F50, for instance, has a loose back end, making it harder to control around 
 corners than the tamer BMW M5. Still, you can pretty much go through every race without ever taking 
 your thumb off the gas button, though judicious use of your hand brake makes cornering a lot easier. 
           The game features official licenses from the world's top automobile manufacturers.   

 It's perhaps a little strange that you're not rewarded for driving wildly in the PC version of Hot 
 Pursuit II, like you are in the PS2 game. In fact, the points system in this version of Hot Pursuit 
 II is completely different from the PlayStation 2 version. Here, you'll be awarded with a bronze, 
 silver, or gold medal upon completing any of the hot pursuit racing events, and each of these awards 
 has a certain point value attached to it. You do get a few points within each race for posting 
 the fastest lap and such, but unlike the PS2 version, which lets you earn points in many different 
 ways, like taking massive jumps, the PC version is much more limited. What's more, you can choose 
 which cars and tracks you wish to unlock yourself by spending your points accordingly -- nothing 
 becomes available to you automatically. This isn't necessarily a bad thing; it just seems strange 
 that it's done in a completely different manner from Hot Pursuit II for the PlayStation 2. There 
 are a little more than 30 cars that you can unlock in the game -- about a dozen less than in the 
 PS2 game -- including 10 cop cars, all of which can be driven at will in the game's challenge mode. 
 Additionally, Hot Pursuit II has 12 unique racetracks, though that number quadruples if you count 
 the mirrored, reverse, and mirrored-reverse courses. In a nice touch, Hot Pursuit II's challenge 
 mode even lets you play as the cops, and you can call in roadblocks and helicopters of your own. 
    

 The game's second career mode is called world championship, and it's structured exactly like hot 
 pursuit in that you have to compete through 33 branching racing events. The difference here is 
 that you won't have to worry about interference from the law -- it's just you and the competition. 
 As in hot pursuit, you'll earn a different number of points for getting the gold, silver, or bronze 
 medal, and you can use these points to unlock any car or track that you want, thus making it available 
 to you in the challenge mode.           Hot Pursuit II's physics aren't exactly realistic.    

 
 As is to be expected, the cars control in an exaggerated manner compared to their real-world counterparts. 
 It's easy to make the vehicles in the game lose traction, but it's just as easy to get it back 
 by using a little bit of countersteering. It should be noted that Hot Pursuit II lacks the extreme 
 handling setting found in the PS2 version of the game. This exaggerates the handling characteristics 
 of the cars even further and makes for a very visceral racing experience. The PC version also lacks 
 the precise controls of its PlayStation 2 cousin. You'll notice a slight delay between your control 
 inputs and your car's reaction. Additionally, the cars feel floaty, as if they're disconnected 
 from the road -- even the light and nimble Lotus Elise will lean over wildly in turns, and heavier 
 cars sway back and forth almost like boats.   

  Hot Pursuit II gives you four different perspectives to play from -- three from the third-person 
 and one from the first -- and all of these relay a fair sense of speed, though nowhere near as fast 
 as the PS2 version. The car models also aren't as detailed as those in Hot Pursuit II for the PlayStation 
 2-- they lack the overall polygon count and their lighting isn't as well done, nor do they take 
 any visible signs of damage. What's more, the tracks themselves look a little bit fuzzy, and the 
 textures seem somewhat washed out when compared to the PS2 game. Otherwise, Hot Pursuit II for 
 the PC doesn't look bad at all, especially on the higher resolutions afforded by PC hardware. Scrape 
 a wall, and you'll see bright sparks bounce off your car. Lay into the gas pedal, and you'll leave 
 a pair of thick rubber tracks that will remain on the track surface for the duration of the race. 
 And while you won't see the glare of the sun off the pavement as you would in racing games like 
 F1 2002, the lighting is impressive nonetheless. Water on the track will reflect its surroundings, 
 and localized fog from volcanoes and forest fires is evident throughout the game. However, these 
 effects do come at a price. Hot Pursuit II doesn't run at the same frame rate as its PS2 cousin, 
 and while there's no visible sign of slowdown, the overall frame rate definitely isn't optimal. 
   

  Hot Pursuit II's sound is on par with the rest of the game. Each car in the game sounds different 
 from the others, with different engine noises and exhaust notes, though they all seem to be very 
 high pitched and much whinier than you'd expect them to be. The voices for the cops are more subdued 
 than in the PlayStation 2 version, and there's not as much dialogue between police officers and 
 the dispatcher, either. However, the game's soundtrack is very well done. Hot Pursuit II features 
 about a dozen licensed songs that range from the likes of Bush to Uncle Kracker. As eclectic a 
 collection as this is, the songs in the game all have a hard edge to them, and they complement 
 Hot Pursuit II's fast pace nicely. Interestingly, in races that involve cops, the songs that are 
 played in the background are strictly instrumental versions of the originals, so as not to interfere 
 with the chatter of the cops.           It's not as good as the PS2 version, but Hot Pursuit II 
 certainly isn't a bad game.    

 It's somewhat disappointing and certainly confusing to see such a stark difference between Need 
 for Speed: Hot Pursuit II for the PC and the PlayStation 2. The latter game is easily one of the 
 best games in the series, whereas the sluggish controls, floaty cars, and average graphics of the 
 former game make it simply passable. To be clear, Hot Pursuit II for the PC is still a good game 
 with very competent execution of its general gameplay mechanics. In fact, with 66 different missions, 
 a multiplayer mode that features the infamous Need for Speed "pack," and a good selection of licensed 
 cars, Hot Pursuit II is a worthwhile purchase for anyone interested in an arcade-style racing game. 
 It's not nearly as impressive as the PlayStation 2 game, but it does mark the return of the Need 
 for Speed series on the PC after a three-year absence, which has to count for something.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (37 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: rynn21
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 3, 2008 11:20 am PT
Review:  Need for Speed: Hot Pursuit II is a fun pc game to play in your spare time. It really isn't the 
 kind of game you would like to play nonstop for hours on end, but it IS a fun game. They best part 
 would have to be the races that include the cop cars chasing after you. The rush you get racing 
 time and opponents on the Need for Speed games is great. Got to love the winning part, haha. There 
 are many different tracks and cars you can select to race in, among other highlights. The scenary 
 and details in Need for Speed games is amazing, and has stayed that way for many years now. The 
 faster the car, the better the chase. I've been playing race car games for many years now. Actually, 
 my first pc games that I used to play were race car games. The Need for Speed games grow on you, 
 so enjoy the ride. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: geniustiong
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 5, 2008 7:18 pm PT
Review:  Another review comes from me today on Friday, June 06, 2008. Need For Speed Hot Pursuit II is by 
 no means fun to play and dosen't stray far from the old-school racing. It's like 2 games combined 
 into 1. You get 2 career modes. Hot Pursuit and Championship. In the hot pursuit career, you have 
 to race through the race tracks provided in NFSHP2 while evading the cops which adds up the excitement. 
 You gotta give EA the credit for keeping this old-school feature. Split screen is gone for a good 
 reason. Personally i think split screen modes should be played on consoles instead of PCs. In the 
 beginning, you'll be driving low-end cars like the Lotus Elise. Watch out for the cops though. 
 Get over the speed limit under their nose could get you into a chase. In the beginning, they'll 
 be forgiving and just send a couple of Crown Victorias at you but refuse to pull over and they'll 
 be less forgiving. In the Championship career, all you gotta do is just race. Easy as that. It 
 wouldn't be surprising if it got harder as you advance through the career modes. You even get medals 
 and points to unlock vehicles and tracks in NFSHP2. If that wasn't enough, the cars handling are 
 quite realistic but sometimes you'll be encountering unrealistic stuff but who cares? XD.
  
  
  But EA still screwed up. You don't get to be the cop in multiplayer anymore and the damage 
 modelling is like YUCK! A few soundtracks also needs to be replaced as some of them just do not 
 suit a racing game. But still, it's a great game and it's multiplayer has never failed to please 
 everyone.
  
  TIONG 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dada222
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 13, 2008 10:43 am PT
Review:  It is a very good game, with lots of action etc, but there are certainly some annoying points.
 
  
  Gameplay
  There are many cars and many tracks to choose from, a good variety. There are two championships 
 ; the one called 'Hot pursuit', that involves both racing and cops, and another one simply called 
 'Championship', that is only racing. 
  The big problem with this game is its physics. They try to be realistic, but they only are frustrating. 
 For example, if the edge of your tyre touches a tree, the whole car spins around. You may be running 
 a perfect race, but accidentally you touch the wall very very subtly and boom! you are last. It 
 is only too frustrating, and that is the main reason I abandoned the game before finishing it. 
 
  What is even more frustrating is when the cops are after you. The police cars will do everything 
 to stop you. Of course, the same bad physics apply to this case. A policecar may just touch the 
 back of the car, and suddenly you've turned around. It is even more difficult to get back to the 
 track on time, if there is a cop near you, because the reset button (otherwise helpful) does not 
 work. 
  What is also annoying is the fact that while the cops do pursue the other cars, they will never 
 behave them as aggresively as they behave the player. You will never observe a police car wrecking 
 a rival's car. In fact, while the AI send helicopters, roadblocks, spikestrips and police cars 
 after you, it will never send anything but a sucky police car to your opponents. Even if you force 
 an opponent to run over a spikestrip that has been laid for you, no harm will come to him.
  
  Graphics
  The graphics are very good, though the textures could have been better.
  
  
 Sound
  The music is very good although somewhat repeating. The sounds are good.
  
  Performance
  The perfomance is very good, even on weak systems. There is a variety of graphics 
 settings to choose from.
  
  Lasting appeal
  In total I don't think I've played the thing for more than 20 hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dimentedduck
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 10, 2008 5:54 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing. It is cheap, so even if you are not a hardcore racing fan, buy or rent one 
 right now. I can't remember where I got my copy, but I've had it for years. When you first look 
 at the game, you think it's stupid. You can beat it without lifting off the acceleration. It also 
 looks like you can't customize anything. Thats where your wrong. On multiplayer it isn't all about 
 speed, and this game allows you to preform many sick car tricks. And, if you know what your doing, 
 you can add your own cars or supercharge and downcharge existing ones. see my website  
 for help on this (See Skunk Works page) . I got a Lotus Elise (Worst Class) to wipe the floor with 
 a McLaren F1 (Best Class) using this method. All in all, this is a great game. Loads of fun, great 
 mulyiplayer, and its fun to supercharge the cars. I never leave home without it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: calvinho85
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 14, 2008 3:53 am PT
Review:  This game is sooooooooooooo good! I can't stop playing it! But the chases are a little unfair, 
 though. I have 2 police cars and 1 road block that i can barely get away, when the other cars have 
 just 1 plice car after then, and they're too slow to chase them. I have 2 police cars and 1 road 
 block that i can barely get away, when the other cars have just 1 plice car after then, and they're 
 too slow to chase them. I have 2 police cars and 1 road block that i can barely get away, when the 
 other cars have just 1 plice car after then, and they're too slow to chase them. I have 2 police 
 cars and 1 road block that i can barely get away, when the other cars have just 1 plice car after 
 then, and they're too slow to chase them. I have 2 police cars and 1 road block that i can barely 
 get away, when the other cars have just 1 plice car after then, and they're too slow to chase them. I 
 have 2 police cars and 1 road block that i can barely get away, when the other cars have just 1 
 plice car after then, and they're too slow to chase them. I have 2 police cars and 1 road block 
 that i can barely get away, when the other cars have just 1 plice car after then, and they're too 
 slow to chase them. I have 2 police cars and 1 road block that i can barely get away, when the other 
 cars have just 1 plice car after then, and they're too slow to chase them. I have 2 police cars 
 and 1 road block that i can barely get away, when the other cars have just 1 plice car after then, 
 and they're too slow to chase them. I have 2 police cars and 1 road block that i can barely get 
 away, when the other cars have just 1 plice car after then, and they're too slow to chase them. I 
 have 2 police cars and 1 road block that i can barely get away, when the other cars have just 1 
 plice car after then, and they're too slow to chase them. I have 2 police cars and 1 road block 
 that i can barely get away, when the other cars have just 1 plice car after then, and they're too 
 slow to chase them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: red_raven01
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 28, 2007 11:45 am PT
Review:  Blatant disregard for the law is the order of the day, as players blast through numerous exotic 
 locales in one of more than 20 high-performance sports cars from some of the world's most renown 
 car manufacturers -- Ferrari, Lamborghini, Porsche, Lotus, and BMW, among others. The main single-player 
 mode, Hot Pursuit, offers 33 challenges, each of which presents the player with a unique scenario 
 and basic restrictions pertaining to it: such as vehicle type, number of laps, nature of the race, 
 and so forth. 
  
  Here, not only do players have to fend off the advances of fellow competitors, but they'll need 
 to keep the police at bay. In order to keep the peace, the police will do whatever it takes to 
 stop you, from bumping you at high speed to setting road blocks at various choke points and even 
 laying down spike strips to puncture your tires. An onscreen meter indicates just how close you 
 are to ditching the cops on your tail, and once it empties, the cops will give up the chase. This 
 respite is temporary however, before long they'll swarm upon you once again.
  
  The Championship mode allows players to compete within the confines of the law. Similarly styled 
 to the aforementioned Hot Pursuit mode, it offers 33 pre-defined events, but with one significant 
 difference: no cops. Successfully completing these events will earn you points that can in turn 
 be spent on new vehicles and tracks for use in the Single Challenge mode. Rounding out the selection 
 of modes are Quick Race and Single Challenge, the latter houses a selection of customizable modes 
 such as Be a Cop, Two-Player, Lap Knockout, and Free Run. Lap Knockout sees the last-placed driver 
 removed from the race at the end of each lap.
  
  Electronic Arts' acclaimed Need for Speed series adds yet another top-notch title to its stable 
 of arcade racing games. Everything players expect from the series, the breathtaking courses, the 
 exhilarating sense of acceleration, and the wonderfully exotic cars, is present on the PlayStation 
 2, along with the option to race against Johnny Law in a mode worth the price of admission by itself. 
 While there are a number of new twists to the familiar formula, Hot Pursuit 2 isn't quite the new 
 experience series veterans may have been hoping for. A number of features found in previous titles 
 have been scaled back or eliminated entirely.
  
  What is featured in the game, however, has been crafted with such care the omissions seem more 
 like sidebars than front-page news. Chief among the highlights are the courses themselves, as each 
 of the 15 main tracks (an additional 15 are available as variants) seems more beautiful than the 
 last, taking players through forests, beaches, mountains, and even ruins. Players are given more 
 freedom than ever before, as each environment is significantly wider than previous games, allowing 
 for an incredible number of shortcuts. It is entirely possible to race through the same track four 
 times and experience completely new scenery. You can literally take the high road while others 
 take the low road as well as break through barriers, veer off to the right or left to take a shortcut 
 through a town, bypass a bridge to weave around trees, and much more. 
  
  Details include raging forest fires (while a nearby fire truck attempts to douse them with water) , 
 lightning strikes, gushing waterfalls, dissipating fog, blowing leaves, and many other lifelike 
 details giving the courses a personality all their own. This is one of the rare racing games where 
 players may find themselves in danger of crashing just because they can't take their eyes off the 
 scenery. This attention to detail continues with a real-time damage model showing the effects of 
 collisions and crashes as the game wears on. Windshields will crack, engines will blow, and doors 
 and hoods will crumple, dent, and scratch if players continue to abuse their rides while blazing 
 across the scenic routes.
  
  The game also shakes up some of the familiar modes of play by offering a bit more variety than 
 in previous titles. Hot Pursuit and World Racing modes both feature a branching system of 30 events, 
 and players can pick and choose which race to enter. Fulfilling the conditions of one event will 
 open up one or more of the later events, and finishing first can unlock a car, course, or both 
 for play in the rest of the modes. The events mix things up by offering traditional races against 
 the computer drivers, a knockout challenge on a specific course, or a point-to-point race. The 
 Hot Pursuit mode, arguably the most challenging mode of the game, typically involves racing a specific 
 car and getting from point A to point B within a certain time limit.
  
  What makes this mode so challenging is that the cops are on your tail almost right from the start. 
 Zipping by parked police cars and running through roadblocks increases a player's wanted rating, 
 which in turn adds more and more police into the mix. Combine this with oncoming traffic and a 
 time deadline, and races can become a harrowing (but enjoyable) experience. Police in this game 
 make use of turbo and will call for helicopters, which hover ahead and drop fuel drums in your 
 path that explode on impact. Avoiding police roadblocks is still rather easy (your onboard scanner 
 picks up radio chatter as in previous games, letting you know where the police are ahead of time) , 
 but law enforcement's increased aggressiveness makes for a difficult time.
  
  Players will often find police cars swerving into them from the left or right while being chased 
 from behind. Quickly slamming on the brakes can send the two closest police cars smashing into 
 each other, taking them both out of commission as they radio in their defeat. Unlike the original 
 Hot Pursuit, the frame rate remains rock solid throughout these intense battles, making for a white-knuckled 
 race from start to finish. The addition of so many shortcuts also makes each race seem different, 
 and players can toggle the frequency of pedestrian traffic to make things even more interesting. 
 As in previous games, there's still the option to be the police officer and chase down the speed 
 freaks, calling for roadblocks and helicopters along the way. 
  
  As much fun as there is to be had with the game, there are a number of curious omissions that could 
 have made Hot Pursuit 2 even better. Surprisingly enough, there is no garage, so players cannot 
 see which cars they have unlocked. Nor is there any way to customize the cars, other than changing 
 their paint scheme before a race. In fact, there's no money to be won at all in this game. In order 
 to acquire more cars, players must simply win the required event. This takes away some of the replay 
 value associated with building a bank account to purchase new vehicles, make repairs, or buy upgrades, 
 but it also doesn't artificially force players to re-race the same event over and over again just 
 to buy a specific car.
  
  Another weakness is there's no way to track statistics such as the highest point total for a race 
 (players earn points by catching air and performing other stunts) , the number of times each race 
 was won, how many roadblocks were broken through, the dollar amount of damage caused, and so forth. 
 Lap records and fastest times are saved for each event, but there's no easy way to view this data 
 from a separate mode or user profile sheet. Players instead have to look at it from within the 
 event selection screen. Some may also complain of the missing dashboard in the first-person view, 
 and for some inexplicable reason the police comments lack the sense of urgency and despair that 
 made the original Hot Pursuit so entertaining (where police would literally yell at the top of 
 their voice, "Pull over now!") .
  
  While it seems a little more could have been done to personalize the game, Need for Speed: Hot 
 Pursuit 2 offers an impressive amount of arcade-style fun bolstered by the number and variety of 
 courses, challenging Hot Pursuit mode, and excellent lineup of vehicles. All of the courses are 
 first-rate works of art, with shortcuts so long and detailed that there are shortcuts within the 
 shortcuts. Finding them all is as fun as racing through the main route, and the ability to outrun 
 the cops is exactly what the doctor ordered after a long day of work, school, or deciding which 
 racing game to play next. 
  
  Slight pop-up in the distance and some blurriness do not take away from the often mesmerizing courses. 
 Each car has been rendered with painstaking detail and a number of slow-motion effects (during 
 jumps and smashing through road blocks) add to the game's cinematic presentation.
  
  Licensed music from Rush, Uncle Kracker, Bush, and other artists spin constantly from the disc 
 as if you were listening to a car radio. The police chatter isn't as humorous as in previous games.
 
  
  While there's not enough detail in an individual's user profile, the tracks can be raced in many 
 different ways by tweaking various settings in the options screen.
  
  The sense of speed and the depth of courses will hook players in, but it's a shame there's no way 
 to earn money or modify existing cars. The manual clearly explains the modes of play and various 
 options available, and the game offers help screens for players who are having trouble navigating 
 the menus. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: misha97
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 19, 2007 2:53 pm PT
Review:  I played this game the first time at my freinds house and really enjoyed it...
  So I got the game....
  Opened it....
  And, whola!, enjoyed it.
  The graphics are really nice 
 for a 2002 game!!
  I would of thought this game was like what, 2005, but no it's 2002.
  The sound is very nice but when you play it a long time the motor sounds get annoying.
  Also 
 when you do a stunt it re-plays it in slow motion and looks so cool!
  The gameplay is awesome but the campaign with the cops is hard... they literally surround you, stop 
 you, and get you!
  Also when you play for a cop, you don't know a lot of things...
  like you have to press hot-keys like h to get your siren on and sart chasing a guy.
  Everything 
 is good in this game except you don't know how to be a cop if you don't press hot-keys on your 
 keyboard. = ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Don_Shadio
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 1, 2007 7:57 pm PT
Review:  My first and my favorite NFS game, playing Hot Pursuit 2 is a sensational experience thanks to 
 all the beautiful cars and dazzling sceneries. The music and soundtracks add the fun, but most 
 of the fun is added by cops who would never give up a chase if youre not good at playing NFS. 
 The game is pretty basic, you race, you win and move forward. The only feature I disliked were 
 the mirrored maps coz I often ended up turning towards the wrong direction. Perhaps the best feature 
 if this game is when you sit in a cop car and chase speedsters, thats when you really have to 
 se your skills and prove how good you areat driving or at protecting the law? Well thats up 
 to you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nalanji
Rating: 7.1
Date: May 31, 2007 1:25 pm PT
Review:  Well, the game was very cool when it first came out. The first game I had ever seen where you could 
 actually drive REAL police cars. The Ford Crown Victoria and the other Ford. All of the other cars 
 were unrealistic, but meh, it's cool none the less
  
  Graphics - 7/10 ~ The graphics are quite interesting, they looked quite amazing for the time being, 
 but now a days, it looks a little too pixely. Though I give many points to the look of the areas 
 you drive through.
  
  Audio - 6/10 ~ The Audio is very... annoying so to speak. The audio for the vehicles was good, 
 but the EA TRAX was terrible. There are no good songs, so I just disabled the music alltogether.
 
  
  Gameplay - 8/10 ~ The gameplay is great! The driving is almost, but not quite real, the overall 
 gameplay was of a very high caliber aswell
  
  This game isnt my top pick, but I don't feel as if it is that bad either ;) Pick this one up if 
 you see it at a good price! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NightRacer811
Rating: 5.3
Date: Apr 5, 2007 12:59 pm PT
Review:  This game was a litlle boring because all you did was race. I expected it to have a litlle free 
 roam. All you did was race after race. I wanted a litlle more from a type of game like this. i 
 was thinking maybe you could have customized your own car because they give you cars to choose 
 to race with.
  Even though they give you good cars to choose from its still a wack idea because when you get to 
 customize your car it would look and be the way you want it to be. The races were nice and everything 
 but i expected a little more then just racing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: queenfan66
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 6, 2007 5:20 pm PT
Review:  this game is wonderful. Beautiful srenery, realistic cars and an easy racer to pick up, even if 
 you never picked up a ps title before. That was me. I never picked up a title for pc. Now in about 
 a year and a half I am candsidered a gamer. This games simpistic AI and easy cops make this game 
 an easy title topick up. this game is also a good game for older more experienced gamer. You might 
 blow thru the first races but you could have a challenge with the later races. Parents this is 
 a must have for your kid. This game is great i enjoyed it and i know u will 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EcnirP_PrincE
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 10, 2006 2:18 am PT
Review:  Need for speed -Hot pursuit 2 continues in the same vein as that of what a pursuit game should 
 be . It has various heat levels , various police vehicles in the different heat levels , each faster 
 and more efficient than the one in the previous heat level . This game is too small for ones liking 
 . Although it has two modes -the hot pursuit and the championship mode - but the no of races is 
 still very less . There are time trials , circuits , lap - knockouts , tournaments , etc . The 
 police can sometimes get a little annoying by getting your vehicle of the track by hitting the 
 back of your car . You can get rid of them by many ways - hit them on their backs , run them over 
 traffic , take the short cuts or long cuts ,i. e., just change the track when ever you are in a 
 pursuit so that the police will have difficulty in catching you . When the heat level increases 
 then more stringent law enforcers are on your track . At higher levels the police set up road blocks 
 , spike traps . The police also deploy helicopters which drop bombs . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Soni-Street
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 4, 2006 4:00 am PT
Review:  This is a real great game, I don't know why it's been so under-rated. This is plain fun, we never 
 wanted realism from Hot Pursuit games, that's Underground we are talking about, but the Hot Pursuit 
 series was always ment to be about arcade style cop chasing game with fancy cars. So here it is, 
 this game offers a great range of car selection, from Opel and Ford to Lamborghini and Ferrari. 
 The maps are great real beautiful and arcade-like, with nice shortcuts that can give some players 
 extra boost. The cop chases are great... sometimes anoying of course when they just won't get off 
 your back, and it gets reak funny... yes I said FUNNY when the helicopters come in play, dropping 
 bomobs and flying cars makes the world go round. The music is awesome EA... I was gonna say started 
 but no... they've always used great music/soundtracks in all their games. This game is not left 
 out, still with the same flavor of EA Trax. If you are fan of NFS this is a must have, if you like 
 arcade racing games this if the right one for you... or if you like anything about cars... then 
 go out and buy this game. You won't regret it. EA u da bomb! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slayer_Sam
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2006 11:37 am PT
Review:  Need for Speed: Hot Pursuit 2 is arcade-style driving game, the sequel to the most highly acclaimed 
 racing games of all time. I have no doubt that some gamers will like this new NFS, but I'm afraid 
 that most gamers will be rather disappointed. Now I will try to explain why. You probably noticed 
 that Electronic Arts has released three versions of Need for Speed: Hot Pursuit II simultaneously 
 for PS2, Xbox and GameCube. Of course there's nothing wrong with console versions, but look what 
 exactly EA did. While Black Box developed pretty satisfying version of NFSHP2 for the PS2, the 
 versions for Xbox and GameCube has been developed by EA Seattle (completely different company) 
 and these versions are noticeably depleted in terms of control, graphics, and sound. Okey, now 
 guess which version EA ported for the PC? If you thought they ported the PS2 version, you are wrong. 
 Unfortunately they have ported EA Settle version of NFSHP2. That doesn't mean that NFSHP2 for PC 
 is crap, but it cobe much better game if they ported the primary PS2 version.
  
  NFSHP2 features over 22 exclusive and exotic cars (Aston Martin Vanquish, BMW M5, BMW Z8, Chevrolet 
 Corvette Z06, Dodge Viper GTS, Ferrari F50, Ford Mustang Cobra, Ford TS-50, Ferrari 360 Spider, 
 HSV Coupe GTS, Jaguar XKR, Lamborghini Diablo VT 6.0, Lamborghini Murciilago, Lotus Elise, McLaren 
 F1 LM, Mercedes CL55, Mercedes CLK-GTR, Opel Speedster, Porsche 911 Turbo, Porsche Carrera GT, 
 Vauxhall VX220) , 12 tracks (four track variations, including mirrored, reversed, and mirrored-reversed 
 - overall 48 variations) , wide variety of modes including Hot Pursuit (a branching tree path of 
 racing events) , Single Challenge (allows you to choose a track, car, and opponents) , Quick Race, 
 Championship (single player event, but without the thrill of the police chase) , Lap Knockout, Tournament, 
 Free Run, Be The Cop (to track down and bust computer speeders) and Multiplayer (up to eight-players 
 via LAN and Internet) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: haky2
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 10, 2006 2:45 am PT
Review:  It&acute; s a wall made traditional NFS game. The new NFS games  Underground 1,2, Most Wanted, 
 Carboon, are mainly about tuning and nitrous, I love these series too, because I love tuned cars, 
 but I think Hot pursuit is a bit better. It was a game about cars, and horsepower. The better car 
 and better driver won, in the new version, the slowest car can be also the best, the best car, 
 is the best tuned car. In Hot Pursiut I loved the well made traditional NFS game. There are real 
 cars from all over the world, and the cops are here too, and they made their work great. You can 
 unlock cars, tracks, this game is great, with a great sound and graphic engine. If you want a good 
 driving game, dont miss this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andilosha
Rating: 7.1
Date: Sep 4, 2006 12:48 am PT
Review:  Well, Need for Speed's first worth playing game. This game is Great indeed, I'm not kidding. Has 
 nice tracks, cars, race types and good gameplay but since I've played this Game at the same time 
 with Most Wanted (When I started playing Most Wanted I was in the middle) I soon realized the difference. 
 Hot Pursuit 2 has nice graphics, but not a good audio at all. As any racing Game must have good 
 music, HP2 ignored that part. And also at Most Wanted when you're in the middle of the race No 
 one spoils your nerves, thing that HP2 not only has, but It is really boring here. In the middle 
 of a race some policeman blocks entirely your road and as you have no choice than to hit them, 
 there you go you're LAST. Maybe when you get used with it it's cool but until you do it's REAL 
 HELL! In other words this game is good but not as much to give you pleasure and it is way too difficult 
 to get to the top! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cowboydb59
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 10, 2006 6:23 pm PT
Review:  Okay, I'll be brief here: This is a very fun game. Most of the cars are just slightly fun to drive, 
 but once you get into the 200+ mph cars, you'll be completely hooked. Thus, save up your credits 
 and buy them near the beginning, instead of buying the cars completely in order.
  
  Driving these is a huge thrill, especially if you have a great PC gamepad ;-) .
  The feeling of 
 speed is irresistible, and taking control of a slide after coming out of a big collision is a whole 
 lot of fun. The AI is decent (some of the other drivers will be aggressive {The ones who come in 
 second [to you] } and some will be passive {the ones that lose} . The tracks don't vary that much 
 between "sets" (There's four sets of tracks, and all the tracks in any particular set are pretty 
 similar) but the sets vary well, from alpine driving to tropical cruising.
  
  Gameplay: See above paragraph. Very fun, very fast. Very good.
  
  Graphics: It's an old game, 
 so the graphics aren't that great. They don't really hurt your experience any though.
  
  Sound: Basic motor noises, nothing much. The soundtrack is awful except for one song, "One Little 
 Victory" by Rush.
  
  Value: Even today this is fun, and you can get it for very cheap now.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: As 
 said before, I enjoyed this a lot.
  
  One last note: The cars all feel heavy. You get used to it after a while, but now it messes me 
 up in other racing games. It actually makes this one a little more fun I think though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrackpotGANJ
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 31, 2006 4:32 am PT
Review:  Huge leap from the first one!!! you must own this game if you are a Need for Speed fan because 
 it's simply the best one yet. This game gives amazing graphical detail for its age in time and 
 the gameplay is still the same, but the hud has expanded and looking great. Finally a racing game 
 with a lot of maps instead of 3 over and over again. The caompaign mode gives you a variety of 
 things to do and it allows to sprint, tournaments, longer races, out run cops, and be the cops. 
 Being the cops is a cool new feature that allows you to bump them a ceartin amount of times to 
 get the job done so you cant let them leave you in the dust. Also being the cop lets you call for 
 back up, road block, spile strip, and finally a helicopter dropping stuff on the road to slow you 
 down. This Need for Speed gives you an amazing amount of cars and there really nice with conceptual 
 details. This game puts you behind the wheel and allows it to feel realistic in a sort of matter. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brenday
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 13, 2006 1:30 pm PT
Review:  I need to give the graphics a 10, because it was perfect so many years ago, although now that alot 
 more Nedd For Speed games have been released, t has lost its dignity. Although I still regularly 
 play it, I love racing games and this is a classic. And you've got to love Classics.
  
  It is just great has so much fun either racing or running from the cops and even being the cops, 
 it is all in good fun and very addictive. When I start, I am playing it for hours...
  
  If you are looking for and old racing game this is DEFINATLY 9I'm 100% sure) that this is the one 
 you should get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: salmanj1
Rating: 7.9
Date: Feb 16, 2006 6:12 am PT
Review:  Awsome game maan I mean I played it and I was just like WOW!!! Of course the next 3 parts are awesome 
 2 but this was 1st of its kind I feel that some how need for speed most wanted had the same concept 
 PURSUIT!!! . I love the BE THE COP mode its awesome (I always win thats why :P) the graphics gameplay 
 E. T. C are good (for that time) I had to get RAM installed on my PC because of that  he 
 he.. well overall its ok FOR ITS TIME I mean it was out of the way and DAMN COOL!!!!
  This is Salman Signin off!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wisorf
Rating: 4.8
Date: Feb 13, 2006 9:15 pm PT
Review:  The only redeeming feature of this game is the graphics.
  
  The sound could be better, the physics definitely need a lot of work and the AI is totally ... 
 nonexistant ... ???
  The cops use the same tactics over and over and over, and the helicopter barrels are just an a 
 joke. Not to mention the opponents which are waaaaaaaaaaay too generous. They allow cars to pass 
 witout giving them a hard bump (this is high stakes, isn't it?)
  
  Anyways ... this ends my review review review
  
  BTW, there is now NFS: MW. But going by the 
 gradual worsening of the games, I suggest DON'T buy the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: predalienX2460
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 29, 2006 8:47 pm PT
Review:  This game was my very first driving game for PC, and it still is. Apart from a few flaws and minor 
 shortcomings, its still a fun game for those who are just starting out in racing games.
  
  Graphics-: 7
  The cars look pretty good: nice reflections, good shadowing. But the tires look 
 like they're about to fall off when you're in the air. Tracks seem to lack creativity, just pretty 
 normal looking. Backgrounds are horrible, they look like watercolor paintings set up like wallpaper.
 
  
  Sound/Music-: 7
  Sirens sound realistic but get annoying after awhile. Tires squeal a little too much than they're 
 supposed to. The soundtrack had some great rock and techno music and even instrumental versions 
 of the songs play when cops are involved.
  
  Gameplay-: 8
  The cops aren't really hard to lose, they're just really more of an annoyance. Cops can chase your 
 opponents but can't get busted like in the original Hot Pursuit. You can be a cop if you want to 
 and call on backup, roadblocks and even a helicopter that drops explosive barrels that are hilarious 
 to run into. The cops can do the same thing to you, but lacks excitement. The highest level of 
 pursuit involves two pursuit cars, a helicopter and maybe some roadblocks with those dangerous 
 party killers called spike strips. Unlike in the original Hot Pursuit, where you have 2 warnings 
 if you get caught, as soon as you're stopped the race is automatically over and you're arrested. 
 The cut scenes are fun to watch 'cause sometimes you're being chased by a group of cops, state 
 troopers and even the occasional dog.
  
  If you like arcade racers, lots of cars to choose from, or just want to have fun, then this the 
 game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJ-PRIME90
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jan 26, 2006 6:59 pm PT
Review:  I don't play this game anymore since my steering wheel broke, but when I was playing this game 
 with it, it was amazing. Having the steering wheel gave so much control. Even when chasing after 
 racers in the cop cars.
  
  Gameplay 8/10: For its time is was pretty fun. I didn't play much with the cops chasing me though. 
 But it did take me alot of practice before I could master all the vehicles. Never found even one 
 glitch.
  
  Graphics 8/10: For a PC game, the graphics were pretty damn good.
  
  Sound 7/10: The sound could have been better, but it wasn't too bad.
  
  Value 8/10: For its 
 time is was a pretty good racing game.
  
  Review's Tilt 7/10: For its time is was pretty good. If you do decide to buy this game, or a newer 
 Need For Speed game, I strongly recomend that you buy a good steering wheel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LuDaDJ
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jan 25, 2006 12:30 pm PT
Review:  Need For Speed: Hot Pursuit 2 is a follow up to Need For Speed: Hot Pursuit and High Stakes. EA 
 sidetracked from the traditional NFS formula with the last game in the series, Porsche Unleashed, 
 but returns to it in Hot Pursuit 2. This means you'll get to drive a slew of exotic cars in exotic 
 locales in arcade fashion. However, while Hot Pursuit 2 is a good game, it doesn't quite live up 
 to the standards set by its predecessors, Need For Speed: Hot Pursuit and High Stakes.
  
  There are two main career modes in Hot Pursuit 2, the Hot Pursuit Mode, and the Championship mode. 
 Both have 33 events in which you get rewarded with Gold, Silver, or Bronze medals. You can earn 
 points in these two career modes, which are used to unlock cars and tracks in the single player 
 mode. Hot Pursuit consists of races with an added catch: the police are out to stop you. If you 
 get arrested, the race is over. Outrunning the police nets you points. A few of the Hot Pursuit 
 events let you be the police, and stop speeders by ramming into them, with the ability to call 
 for backup in the form of another cop car, helicopter, or barricades. Championship mode consists 
 of pure racing events, without the police. Both modes features single track races, multi track 
 tournaments, knockout races, in which the last player on each lap is eliminated, and time trials, 
 in which you have to drive as fast as possible to meet a predetermined time. However, the career 
 modes are not as interesting as the one in High Stakes, and there is no upgrading of cars, like 
 in High Stakes.
  
  Graphics are beautiful, as the scenery and the car models are excellent. However, for some reason, 
 the frame rate is inconsistent, and even if you have a high end machine, you'll still encounter 
 choppiness. The framerates are never silky smooth. EA took out damage to some extent, and while 
 your car will show signs of damage, it doesn't affect the performance whatsoever.
  
  You get a nice selection of cars to choose from, ranging from the Lotus Elise to the high end McLaren 
 F1. For me, it was nice to see the Aston Martin Vanquish, the Porsche 911 Turbo, the Ferrari F50, 
 and the Lamborghini Diablo and Murcielago. I did miss a few cars that were in previous NFS games 
 though, like the Jaguar XJR-15, the BMW Z3, and the Mercedes SLK230.
  
  The tracks aren't as interesting as they were in the previous NFS games. Tracks have four modes: 
 forward, forward mirrored, backward, and backward mirrored. There are some that take place in the 
 countryside, a few that take you pass a volcano, but generally lack the unique variety present 
 in Hot Pursuit and High Stakes, for example, the underground desert temple, the underwater aquarium, 
 and the European villages. The tracks in this game are also not very challenging. For the most 
 part, you won't have to brake much in the tracks. This is an easy game, and there are fewer challenging 
 hairpins, but there are interesting shortcuts. Also adding to the easy difficulty of the game is 
 the handy reset feature, which places your car back on the track after a wipeout.
  
  Overall, the and overall rush you'll feel isn't as great in this game as with its predecessors, 
 as the sense of speed seems to have been turned down. Powersliding, a technique common in previous 
 NFS and other driving games, is nearly non existent, and that really takes away from the fun of 
 a NFS game. Some features present in earlier games are also missing. For example, there isn't the 
 option to set weather or day/night options, so driving a track in the snow at night isn't an option. 
 That's too bad, since one of the gameplay elements in previous games was keeping damage to your 
 car to a minimum so you'd still be able to illuminate the road with your headlights at night. Also 
 sorely missed are the car and track showcases. Instead, a single audio track will tell you about 
 the car or track you've selected.
  
  Once you've finished the career mode, it's still fun to go online on occasion to race human opponents 
 in the multiplayer mode. While Hot Pursuit 2 doesn't quite meet the standards set by its predecessors, 
 it's still a pretty good game, and is a game that you can easily play for a few minutes at a time. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: polska1
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 22, 2006 5:12 pm PT
Review:  This game is the best racing game ever. It has all the little details, for example when a car passes 
 you and it horns you hear the horn pass you, and when you ride through a tunnel and you horn or 
 turn on your siren , it has a different sound, it echoes, just like in real life how great is that, 
 the graphics beat lots of games now, if you love racing get it, the graphics are the best, and 
 the sound is awesone, you can even see the driver, this game is the best. At first it is easy, 
 but then it is harder, this game is the best in the series. They should make more games ike this. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pathfiner
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 22, 2006 4:00 pm PT
Review:  after changing the prices as it says to and i finish changeing all the prices and go and close 
 the note pad out i tell it to save the changes and then it tells me i can't because the file name 
 is the same as the source folder. is there anyway to get around that? and also the cheats for the 
 invisible car doesn't work either. i haven't tried any of the other cheats. please wite me with 
 a response at vampre201@yahoo. com. i don't like your 100 words requirements. i don't like your 100 
 word requirements. i don't like your 100 word requirements. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Choodle
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jan 22, 2006 8:56 am PT
Review:  The sheer volume of things to do in this game with your "exotic" cars is great race against other 
 cars, beat the cops in hot pursuit mode or just thrash your ferrari 550 on course's around the 
 world, the control interface is simple and easy to get used to, the cars handle well and the game 
 has an arcade type feel to it, the sense of speed is very good, and the sound track ain't none 
 to bad either, with over 20 licenced super cars and a few unlockable versions of these cars this 
 game will keep us racing fans going for days on end. The graphics are very good with all the cars 
 exhibiting visual damage and an array of enviromental effects that make each track a challenge, 
 as well as having multiple routes on most course's you can pick which line you want, go the irt 
 track or the highspeed tarmac in the end it's your choice.
  The car's engine sounds have been very well reproduced, you can definitly tell the difference between 
 a ferrari or a porsche in this game, the music is a good mix of techno and rock which add's to 
 the overall atmosphere of the game.
  I would recommend this for anyone who loves racing games and especially if your a need for speed 
 fan you'll love this title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrAbs
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 20, 2006 1:53 am PT
Review:  This must be my favorite of all the Need for Speed games. Although Most wanted is out there, I 
 still like this one better. I am not a big fan of building and upgrading cars, and that is why 
 I am not really a big fan of Most Wanted. This NFS is straight forward, you unlock your cars and 
 you drive them. 
  
  I am also a big fan of sports cars, and if you like sports cars too, this game is for you. The 
 cars are awesome. Well designed and seriously detailed. The courses are also really cleverly designed 
 and, if your PC can handle it, very detailed with loads of shortcuts. Unlike the past NFS there 
 are a huge number of shortcuts and alternative ways through the course and this time the computer 
 also uses it.
  
  The Police are relentless. They just don't give up like in Hot Pursuit 1. They will send out helicopters, 
 call backups and set spike strips. This makes the pursuits nice and difficult. Good challenge.
 
  
  Great game. Definitely my favorite Racing game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: burnoutx1985
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 4, 2006 6:11 pm PT
Review:  Pros 
  
  * you get to be the cop!
  * good AI
  * variety of sporty cars to drive
  
  Cons 
  
  * long courses
  * where are the damage effects?
  * difficult to play using a keyboard
 
  
  Description
  
  * Publisher: Electronic Arts
  * Release Date: October 21, 2002
  * Race exotic cars in an arcade style game.
  * Race in over 20 courses in a variety of environments 
 that have waterfalls, volcanoes, and more.
  * Choose from over 20 cars to drive, including the Lamborghini Murcielago and Dodge Viper GTS.
 
  * 2-player split screen mode, with Internet and LAN support.
  * "Be the Cop" mode lets you get behind the wheel of a police car and stop lawbreakers.
  * Play 
 modes include: Challenge, Hot Pursuit, Championship, Top Cop, and "Be The Cop."
  * Earn points through racing to unlock courses and cars.
  
  Guide Review - "Need for Speed 
 Hot Pursuit 2"
  "Need for Speed Hot Pursuit 2" doesn't give you all the courses and cars to play. Instead you must 
 work your way through racing courses and earn enough points to unlock courses and cars. The racing 
 takes place in a variety of environments, including city and rural areas.
  
  An important part of any game is the graphics. The graphics in this racing sim are beautiful. But, 
 you really do need a good graphics card to enjoy the little details. The scenery is breath taking 
 at times, but the fast paced action doesn't leave you much time to admire it.
  
  Don't bother trying to play using the keyboard. It's difficult to control the car, get a game pad 
 instead.
  
  "Hot Pursuit 2" is a fun racing game that will please most gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bwolf92
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 5, 2005 6:58 pm PT
Review:  You blast down the beach road at a blistering 155 mph with 10 cop cars on your tail and a chopper 
 tailing your Ferrari 360 Spider. Uh-oh, the chopper dumps a huge barrel of explosives down on you 
 and suddendly BOOM!!!!!!!!!!! You're done. Well there's always next race right? Well in the newest 
 Hot Pursuit game from EA you get to choose from a huge arsenal of exoctic sports cars. The graphics 
 are great for a racer along with songs that sound like crap at first but after a while you can't 
 get tham out of your head. The gameplay whether with a gamepad or keyboard is fine, if a little 
 stiff. There's only really one thing sagging in this title. The story mode is bad. There is no 
 story, only seperate events to master that connect in no way. But it's always fun to bust speeders 
 as a copper in a sweet ride (for a cop of course) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pawner625
Rating: 6.3
Date: Nov 28, 2005 8:22 pm PT
Review:  Same as review, but could be better.. dont know how catch a car if u are a cop and vie versa. No 
 coo operative which is the biggest let down.
  
  Pros:
  
  Good graphics, sound and neat user interface
  
  Cons:
  All the modes are similar, no training 
 mode. No co operative
  
  thats all! thats all! thats all! thats all! thats all! thats all! thats all! thats all! thats all! thats 
 all! thats all! thats all! thats all! thats all! thats all! thats all! thats all! thats all! thats all! thats 
 all! thats all! thats all! thats all! thats all! thats all! thats all! thats all! thats all! thats all! thats 
 all! thats all! thats all! thats all! thats all! thats all! thats all! thats all! thats all! thats all! thats 
 all! thats all! thats all! thats all! thats all! thats all! thats all! thats all! thats all! thats all! thats 
 all! thats all! thats all! thats all! thats all! thats all! thats all! thats all! thats all! thats all! thats 
 all! thats all! thats all! thats all! thats all! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rasika
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 1, 2005 5:31 am PT
Review:  Engage in the next generation thrill of arcade racing with more than 20 exclusive and exotic cars 
 from the world's most coveted licensors including Ferrari (TM) , Porsche (R) and Lamborghini (TM) . 
 Need For Speed is back and better than ever with Need For Speed Hot Pursuit 2. The latest version 
 features over 20 courses, some more than 15 miles long, providing the widest variety of driving 
 challenges. A mixture of gameplay modes will challenge every driver, including the all new "Top 
 Cop" and "Be The Cop" modes that let players actually get behind the wheel of a police car and 
 attempt to bust those pesky law-breakers.
  
  Need For Speed: Hot Pursuit 2 stays true to the heritage of housing a stable of exclusive and exotic 
 cars from the world's most coveted licensors including Ferrari, Porsche, and Lamborghini, to name 
 a few. 
  
  Staying true to its award-winning legacy, Need For Speed: Hot Pursuit 2 will deliver an exciting, 
 intense arcade driving experience. The game includes a variety of open road environments that truly 
 come to life, consisting of river crossings, waterfalls, beach surf, dusty paths, brush fires. 
 
  
  With over 12 courses, some of which include extreme weather conditions-hurricanes, tornadoes, blizzards 
 and downpours, provide the widest variety of driving challenges. Animated drivers and cops give 
 life to the drivers within the game, bringing added emotion to the world of these unattainable 
 super cars. 
  
  Become the "Ultimate Road Racer" by winning numerous racing events, all carrying various rewards 
 such cars, tracks, upgrades, paint jobs, game modes and Easter eggs. The game challenges the driver 
 to dodge traffic, police and natural elements in high speed and high style true NFS style. Evade 
 any cops encountered, as getting busted just might end your career. 
  
  The AI for the opponent racers and the police will further immerse you into the ultimate exotic 
 car fantasy where you can drive these cars at their limit or get caught trying. Opponent racers 
 and the police have distinct and unique driving styles challenging the player to learn arrest patterns 
 in order to beat the cops and win the race. Cops will even be given different personalities that 
 the player will learn to recognize. 
  
  Key Features :
  
  More than 20 of the most coveted licensed exotics rendered in awesome PS2 detail complete with 
 animating in-game drivers 
  
  A variety of modes including Hot Pursuit and Championship mode 
  
  Dynamic lighting and real 
 world reflections bring the cars and tracks to life 
  
  Realistic, detailed environments that push the emotion engine by bringing to life elements from 
 the real world -rain, blowing leaves, sun beams and dust storms 
  
  Maneuvering through traffic and police at breakneck speeds puts you on the edge of your seat 
 
  
  Piloting virtually unattainable cars neck in neck with other exotics will stir the soul 
  
 
  Dodge traffic at upwards of 200 mph while running at 60fps 
  
  Open world environment to allow for "edge of your seat" off-road moments on shortcuts 
  
  Advance 
 your career to "Ultimate Road Racer" 
  
  Clear reward path with: upgraded cars, new courses, new race modes and more 
  
  Multiplayer 
 support 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mariokart64fan
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jan 22, 2005 2:15 pm PT
Review:  game play this game plays like its game cube ,xbox counter parts and does not differ except the 
 online capabilities (a substitute for multiplayer found in gc ver.) so to say again this game fails 
 to get the fun found in nfs 3 hp 
  
  graphics nicely done just as polished as my gc version and optional switches to turn off things 
 were good to 
  
  sound ok the music has to go the sound effects are good and some times are misused all the cars 
 almost sound the same and the voicing again is missing! what happened ea ? you rushed again to 
 make this version 
  
  value 60 champ races in all 4 or 5 game play modes not many options and less oreinted driving physics 
 are a little bad for this part but its fun 
  
  tilt if you already got an xbox ps2 or gc version do not waste your mony (it comes in a value pack 
 with all the old 1s which again are bad ports of ps1 games) i suggest a rent borrow ,buy this only 
 and only if you do not have another version or you want to try online 
  
  bottom line i got this at eb in a collection set and all the games in it lacked voicing including 
 the one that had it on the ps1 this is a watered down port of a gc xbox ps2 game and should be 
 avoided at all costs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: makroviruz
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 13, 2004 12:19 pm PT
Review:  Beautiful scenary, great sounds and superb singel and multiplayer driving...
  There are two different Singelplayer mission-branches, one with police-chases and the other with 
 "normal" fast driving tracks against good AI-players.
  Its fast and beautiful tracks reaching from coastal-views to city-driving.
  You have to finish 
 at worst 3: rd in a race to continue to the next one, after a race you "open up" more tracks and 
 races that wasnt availible before compleating the first race.
  
  Even though the next game in the series "need for speed Underground" was a good game aswell, this 
 one "Hot Pursuit 2" is a MUST if you enjoy arcade-driving!
  No else game in the gangre is as complete as this one!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Frost451
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 1, 2003 5:14 pm PT
Review:  I think this was a great game, could it have been better? Yes, but if you buy this game now and 
 play it with a Radeon 9700 or better it kicks a$$. I just want more cars and tracks and the option 
 to change the time of day and season. This is a good game, but got low scores because most people 
 didnt have the hardware to run it when it came out. Besides look what they did with NFS underground, 
 and you thought it couldn't get any worse. LOL EA will never learn, and they dont listen to their 
 fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hellfire
Rating: 2.5
Date: Nov 20, 2003 2:57 am PT
Review:  When I played NFS-Porsche 2000, I began to think that this was a pretty good series of driving 
 games - boy was I wrong!
  The single player mode of this game is absolutely awful! AI-wise it is like 2 year olds are your 
 opponents - it seems impossible not to win on all levels except the last one. 
  The difficulty system is stupid - if a player is experienced they do not want to play on the easiest 
 difficulty level - you should be able to choose an overall level of difficulty - not gradually 
 make your way up from easy to hard! The police tactics should not be fixed - they should make decisions 
 at the relevant times. Its just too easy to avoid that helicopter!
  The game has very good graphics, however the surroundings are too limited - why does every level 
 have the same environment? It gets a little boring over time. Sound is average.
  Overall, unless you are useless in driving games, this game is not for you. Personally I don't 
 see why games are made for consoles and then transferred to PC - if it were the other way around 
 (like the good old days) games would be far better in terms of difficulty, graphics and additional 
 features. Consoles are just too limited. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GFofgaming
Rating: 4.2
Date: Aug 7, 2003 11:48 am PT
Review:  Well... I really didn't expect this from EA. NFS series proved to be one of the most anticipated 
 title in the Racing series but this game lacks very important features from the most successful 
 Need For Speed 5 porsche edition. First of all the cars graphics is ok but it would be if it was 
 realeased in 1999 you know what I mean. And the environment seems to have no lightening effects 
 and seems like NFS 2!! And the game lacks many features and one of the most obvious is the driver's 
 seat! You have to play in the 3rd and 2nd person view. The game also lacks many features from the 
 nfs 5 like indicator, headlights. 
  
  So we can say that this was'nt a successful launch and the NFS fans are not pleased with the results: ( 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
