-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Need for Speed ProStreet
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/driving/needforspeedprostreet/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Nice online options.
 Car damage looks nice and makes totaling your ride fun.
 Solid, albeit unspectacular racing.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Doesn't run well unless most visual options are turned down or off.
 Missing much of the elements that made the last few games fun.
 Races start to feel the same after a while.
 Announcers will make your ears bleed.
 Covered in advertising.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 19, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.5
Critic Score: 7.0, 15 Review (s)
User Score: 6.3, 3,679 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Games
Genre: GT / Street Racing
Date:     Nov 13, 2007 &raquo;  
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
ProStreet is a solid racing game, but it has some performance issues and is missing most of what 
 made the previous games in the series interesting. 

  It can't be easy to be a game developer in charge of releasing a new game in a series every year. 
 People don't want the same game over and over, yet they're unhappy if the game strays too far from 
 the established formula. EA deserves credit for trying something different with Need for Speed 
 ProStreet, but the new direction of the series fails to live up to the level of the previous games. 
 There's still a solid racing experience here, and the online component of the PC version is quite 
 good. But the game's premise is uninteresting, the in-game advertising is over the top, and it 
 doesn't run particularly well. In the end, ProStreet is just another decent but uninspired racing 
 game.  

           The racing is solid, but nothing special.      

  Unlike the last two Need for Speed games, which told the story of an underground street racer through 
 campy yet entertaining cutscenes, ProStreet follows the legal street racing career of Ryan Cooper. 
 The game still uses cutscenes to try to instill some story into the proceedings -- something about 
 Ryan getting dissed by a big-time street racer -- but it's uninteresting thanks to terrible voice 
 acting and unlikable characters. Ignoring the story, it's your goal to head to different events, 
 dominate them, challenge the best of the best, and then take on Ryo, the man who disrespected you 
 after your first race.  

  Thanks to the sheer number of race days you'll need to win, it will take a long time to get to 
 Ryo. Each race day consists of a number of different events. Most of these will be familiar to 
 anyone who's played previous Need for Speed games. Grip races are standard races with eight cars 
 on the track, and your goal is to finish first. Other events have you trying to get the fastest 
 time or highest speed through checkpoints, or the best time out of your class of cars. Drift racing 
 is back, but has been revamped and is actually fun this time around since you don't lose all your 
 points for going off the track. You'll also be doing a lot of drag racing. It's fun for a bit, 
 but gets old quickly thanks in no small part to the preceding minigame in which you have to heat 
 up your tires; it's lame, and you have to do it before each of the three rounds. While there's 
 no shortage of events, there isn't a whole lot of variety. Many of them feel the same -- you just 
 want to go fast. This makes the game grow old quickly, a problem when there are so many events 
 to slog through before you reach the end.  

  The game also grows tiresome because the action on the track just isn't that exciting. Some of 
 the later cars you unlock, like the Lamborghini and Zonda, are superfast, but for the first 50 
 races you'll be racing some rather pedestrian vehicles. Since you're on a track there are no shortcuts, 
 so many of the courses end up feeling the same, especially since a "new" course is just an old 
 one with a few different turns. Most importantly, there are no cops. Getting chased by the five-0 
 was easily the best part of the last few games, so its omission here is huge. Damage plays a more 
 pronounced role this time around; you'll have to repair damaged cars, but you always have enough 
 damage-repair markers to take care of things. We encountered a fair amount of lag when we used 
 a controller with the game, which made car damage a more significant factor with the PC version. 

           Now that everything's on the up and up there are no cops to be found.      

  While you always want to win a race day, that's not your only goal. You'll need to dominate as 
 many race days as possible to unlock new events. After each race you're awarded points based on 
 where you placed, how fast you finished, and how much damage you took. If your combined score for 
 all the events breaks the old record, you've dominated the race day and you're awarded with a prize 
 like cash or parts for your ride. You don't always have to race perfectly, but you'll have to win 
 most of the events to dominate. This is made difficult because you can bring only a few cars into 
 each race day -- one for each event -- so if your car can't hang with the other rides, you're in trouble. 
 All is not lost, though. Like in other NFS games, you can purchase new cars or upgrade your ride 
 to improve performance. And like in the last game, you can sculpt certain aspects of your cars' 
 bodies to make them more aerodynamic. This time you even get to use a wind tunnel. It looks cool, 
 but it's not that useful. Nor are all the visual customization options, because it seems that you 
 can't use your rides online. The tool for putting on decals and vinyls is similar to what is found 
 in Forza 2, but not quite as deep.  

  On the PC you can create your own race day by picking a location, race types, and even what cars 
 can participate. You can then play these race days online in ranked and unranked matches. There 
 was some lag, the racing was a bit choppy, and we had difficulty finding opponents, but it was 
 still fun -- you can really build up some good rivalries by racing the same people in multiple events 
 during an online race day.  

  Every platform gets a piece of the avalanche of advertising that permeates the game. Sure, races 
 in real life are heavily sponsored, but ProStreet takes it too far -- there's nary a stretch of track 
 where there's not some sort of advertisement for motor oil or car insurance. It doesn't seem possible, 
 but 360 and PC owners get to enjoy even more advertising thanks to dynamic ads that will be downloaded 
 when you start the game up for the first time. Even better, some of the achievements are sponsored 
 by a car insurance company. It's too bad that the cost of the game and the ridiculous amount of 
 advertising isn't making EA enough money -- on the Xbox 360 (and according to EA, soon on the PS3) 
 you can use real cash to unlock cars and upgrades. Every single time you go to buy a car, you're 
 asked if you want to use in-game cash or real money. You don't even need to have unlocked a car 
 to be able to purchase it with real cash, which is really unfair since you can use that unlocked 
 car to zoom right to the top of the leaderboards on the early courses.  

  If you've got a rig that can handle it, the PC version of Need For Speed looks just as good as 
 the PS3 and Xbox 360 versions. With all of the visual options enabled the game looks very nice -- particularly 
 its cars, which look fantastic. They look great when they're shiny and new, but they look even 
 better when they're all smashed up. It hurts your wallet when you total a car, but it sure is entertaining 
 to watch the windshield shatter, the bumper fall to the ground, and the hood peel away like a sardine 
 can lid. Unfortunately, enabling smoke effects, car damage, and bumping up the detail causes the 
 game to run poorly. As mentioned earlier, the game doesn't give off a tremendous sense of speed, 
 even with all of the bells and whistles turned off. This is partially because you'll spend a lot 
 of time driving slower cars, but also because the frame rate isn't very fast and is frequently 
 choppy. Everyone gets in on the terrible career menu, which is ugly and difficult to navigate. 
 We also experienced numerous crashes, regardless of the visual settings.  

            Most of the cars here are the same cars from the last few games.      

  ProStreet's 
 audio isn't very good. This is mostly the fault of the game's announcers, who are poorly voiced, 
 have a terrible script, yell into the microphone, insist on calling you by your full name every 
 time they refer to you (which is hundreds of times over the course of the game) , and basically 
 do everything they can to get on your nerves. The cars sound OK, but there's not a whole lot of 
 variety to the engine noise. The music isn't anything exciting, either, and you'll hear the same 
 songs dozens and dozens of times over the course of the fairly lengthy career.  

  What it all boils down to is that without the story, cop chases, and open world of the last two 
 Need for Speed games, ProStreet is just another racing game. Other than a nice online mode, its 
 only truly distinguishing feature is its amount of advertising, which makes an already uninspired 
 game feel even more soulless.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (210 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: ainouta
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 8, 2009 2:50 am PT
Review:  Well , lucky for me , i didn't play before any of the previous Need For Speed title before , well 
 , i did play before , just around 20 mins? And the impression to me was average graphic , unrealistic 
 car physics , messy and "dark". I understand that Need For Speed fans just love how they can illegally 
 travel around the city , get chase by police and stuff , and one of my friend is a Need For Speed 
 die hard fan , so i can understand how it feels. So by not having to play the previous Need For 
 Speed title , i don't have this "mindset" that NFS = illegal-racing-chase-by-police kinda stuff 
 , and thus am not bias on my review.
  
  As stated on the game title , it is Need For Speed "PRO STREET" , which means that car racing had 
 gone on to a new level whereby they are racing in a professional way. True , that Need For Speed 
 Pro Street is name under a wrong title , whereby all its previous title are all similiar. NFS Pro 
 Street is truly a break through and something that is not "Need For Speed" that we all knew previously. 
 
  
  Reviewers who gave this game 5 points and below , they are mostly a Need For Speed fan who had 
 a mindset that Need For Speed MUST be their typical  kind of game 
 and style, and thus bias reviews. 
  
  If this game isn't name under "Need For Speed" , im sure that this game will achieve better treatment 
 by players. 
  
  My bottomline is that , this game is truly a blast , and its just so much fun tuning your own car 
 on almost every parts of the car like a real one, and furthermore , this game truly delivery the 
 gameplay of "how to race in a professional way". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: akshaymohan24
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 14, 2009 4:02 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the worst game I have ever played in my life, and the worst game of the series. 
 Others were better than this. In this series we will just go to the race day and race the same 
 circuit maps. No fun at all, no change in the racing streets. Same drag races. NO cops and NO fun 
 in the gameplay. I hope they could have made it street racing, which is the actual fun in the other 
 games. In this legal road racing, it becomes quite outdated with legal races, so don't they try 
 street racing with the same graphics? They have also made the car quite dirty stuff, quite nice 
 one would have made the car atleast better. The first car we see is Rx7, but we get to drive an 
 old Nissan. I expected to have a nice gameplay and ended it with uninstalling it within an hour 
 of play. I have to mention that the racing streets are quite similar to everything, no fun in the 
 place. No buying much, no paying much. Boring game, after I had to pay for buying that. SO I have 
 to give atleast 1.0 rating 
::::::

::::::
UserName: d_e_e_p
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 18, 2009 11:01 pm PT
Review:  this game totaly let down the nfs series after producing games like
  nfs mw and nfs carbon this was not required . exception of cops from the game is the major factor 
 . graphics are not up to the mark .
  
  nfs pro street races are to booring and driving is like giving hurting
  your keyboard badly. 
 story is also booring.
  
  the only thing i like is name of the game PRO STREET..........
  
  After playing nfs mw this game was meant to be sued by eveyone.
  
  MY RATING
  
  Graphics 
 = 7/10
  Sound = 6/10
  Gameplay = 5.5/10
  Difficulty = Mid-Hard
  
  its fairly a poor game i hope undercover should provide us something new nut not like nfs pro street................
 
  
  
  ea please give us a great nfs game  undercover i am 
 
  
  thanks for  
::::::

::::::
UserName: saadmalik95
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 1, 2009 2:30 am PT
Review:  Need for Speed ProStreet just ruins the whole NFS series. It takes gamers away from all the fun 
 they loved to have in all the last games. Then concept of uncontrolled street racing and smashing 
 you car for fun has just gone. It simply feels "BORING". No cut scenes, no cops just destroys the 
 whole NFS concept. I men if you total your Lamborghini in the game you have to pay 108,000 to fix 
 it. The only reason I gave it even 5 was because the sound and the graphics very good. That is the 
 only plus point. So the only way you can have fun is by cheating which I hate. Its best if you 
 stay away from this game and hope that other NFS tittles are better. 
  
  
  I always put the game requirements here but I did not because this game is not worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mauricio003
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 31, 2009 2:49 pm PT
Review:  BUY THIS GAME PEOPLE IS GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD 
 GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD ITS NOT 
  GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD 
 GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD 
  
  Its not bad, is 8.5 not fair!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  
  This game is excellent excellent
  excellent 
 excellent excellent excellent excellent excellent excellent excellent
  excellent excellent excellent excellent excellent excellent excellent excellent
  excellent excellent 
 excellent excellent excellent excellent excellent excellent
  excellent excellent excellent excellent excellent excellent excellent excellent
  excellent excellent 
 excellent excellent excellent excellent excellent excellent
  excellent excellent excellent excellent excellent excellent excellent excellent
  excellent excellent 
 excellent excellent excellent excellent excellent excellent
  excellent excellent excellent excellent excellent excellent excellent excellent 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Naridar
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 30, 2009 7:00 am PT
Review:  Need for Speed Pro Street was a clear disappointment because it introduced such changes that weren't 
 popular. Such changes were e. g. the ditching of cops, free roaming and introducing a more simulator-like 
 gameplay. The fans of the series hated it for these changes, while newcomers were scared away by 
 negative reviews. I just got my hands on the game (didn't want to pay full price, waited for it 
 to go budget-price) and I'm happy to say: it's not bad at all.
  
  Let's begin at the beginning. The usual "don't try driving like this" warning is switched for "If 
 you want to try such racing in reality, have your car inspected, use a safety helmet and your seatbelt.". 
 This shows that something has changed at EA. After creating a profile, one can start the carrier 
 mode, where a series of racing days and challenges make up a path to the five kings of street racing. 
 There are 4 racing categories: grip, drag, drift and speed challenge, each with its subcategories. 
 There are a variety of races, and all of these are done decently, even drift races are up to the 
 challenge. The opponent AI is fairly easy to get rid of, although they can sometimes surprise you 
 with a decent race. However, the game's greatest challenge lies in its simulator style of racing. 
 You'll need to use those brakes pretty often and you'll have to watch out not to collide with anything, 
 since your cars performance will decrease as you rack up damage, and if you total it, the race 
 is over for you. Not to mention you have to repair your car before you enter a race, which isn't 
 cheap at all.
  
  Between racing days, you can tweak your car both visuals and performance. The selection of cars 
 is pretty good: there are about 50 cars, from various brands around the world, although there are 
 still no Ferraris (shame) . This time, there are more brands of tuning parts to choose from, although 
 I see no difference. It's nice for those who love cars, although. Autosculpt is back, and using 
 it, you can fine-tune your car's performance, since some of the elements of the car affect its 
 performance (e. g. bodykits, spoilers) . Those who love to pimp their rides with stickers, vinyls, 
 special painting, etc. can be relieved: visual tuning is totally free now! That means you won't 
 have to pay thousands of dollars for a darkened window tint or a cool vinyl. That's good news for 
 sure.
  
  Another thing I must mention is the Blueprint mode, where you can design multiple versions of the 
 same car and switch between them in a second.
  
  Pro Street's online mode is also above the average, although I didn't use it that much, so I can't 
 speak much about it.
  
  To sum everything up, Need for Speed Pro Street could have been much better if it wouldn't be named 
 Need for Speed, but it's a solid racing simulator in its own right. Really, people should stop 
 expecting every NFS game to follow in the footprints of Most Wanted. Pro Street is NOT an NFS, 
 but it's still fun to play.
  
  Pros:
  + Good graphics
  + Decent simulator game
  + Overkill car tweaking, visual tuning is now free!
  + Drift mode was repaired pretty good after 
 Carbon
  + Solid racing with a variety of modes
  + User-friendly, not-cheating AI
  + Online modes are fun
  
  Cons:
  - Was named Need for Speed
  - Forgettable soundtrack
 
  - Gets repetitive
  - Cars take too much damage
  
  Overall Rating: 8,2/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameMonsterCJ
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 25, 2009 2:48 am PT
Review:  man why did they release this kind of game are the programmers nuts??
  or is ea in a hurry to earn some money? CAUSE THIS GAME IS USELESS!!!!!!
  
  only thing good 
 is the damn modification new vinyls hoods blah blah.....
  but u can't go free roaming, make your own crew, have fun with cops
  nothing just u need to race 
 some stupid races and the player has just need
  to press the nos or transmission to win no speed breaker!
  and the turning and brakes are automatically 
 done by the game
  
  the'res no realistic thing about this game.... the drift grounds are smaller
  than a road ! no 
 fun the programmers are just going for money but not real gaming in this game
  
  i have to ask a question WHO THE **** PROGRAMMED THIS???!!!!!!!!!?????
  
  THIS GAME REALLY 
 SUX SUX SUX SUX!!!
  MAN I'M SO STUPID TO RATE THIS KINDA GAME!!
  
  NEVER PLAY IT IF U'RE COOL! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vineet85joshi
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 18, 2009 4:01 am PT
Review:  Not too hard, but lack of a good story. I played te game. I found it a little boring when you have 
 to win large number of races for a shwdown. Lack of agood story like NFS: Most Wanted or NFS: Carbon.
 
  
  I'll try the NFS: Undercover now........................
  
  
  
 
  
  
  aaaaa aaaaa a aaaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaa a aaa a aaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa 
 a aaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaa aaaaaaa aaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaa 
 aaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaa aaaaaa aaaaa aaaaa aaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaa a a a aaaaaaaaaa 
 aaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaa aaaaaa a aaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaa 
 aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaa 
 aaaaa aaaaaa 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fandom888
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 8, 2008 1:29 pm PT
Review:  Need for Speed was a very good series in the past and the game's CD were a badge of prestige for 
 every player, but there is no doubt that the amazing plot, environments and cars are lost through 
 the years. It is a fact that I am not satisfied from the races I beat anymore, even from the hardest 
 ones.
  
  You take the role of Ryan Cooper, an ex-driver who once roamed the streets. One day, he enters 
 a chalenge which he wins and then he faces his archrival, Ryo Watanabe. After that, he goes on 
 and dominates some organizations by winning more challenges. Then he faces some crews, which are 
 special for different race types, such as circuits or drafts. Eventually he beats them all, and 
 continues with the major challenges, provided by the four organizations named Kings. he beats them 
 all and earns their crowns. In the end, he faces his archrival, Ryo and he beats him. After that, 
 he is officialy named the Street King, a title which is equal to the best racer in the country.
 
  
  In the gameplay, almost everything is different on comparison with previous Need for Speed games, 
 which means that all the ingredients which made the game a stunner are now gone. For example, in 
 Underground, Most Wanted and Carbon, you roamed the streets while the cops were looking to bust 
 you. On the contrary, in ProStreet the races are mostly in close tracks, while your racing on the 
 road is after years legal. But this gameplay is controversial to the original concept of the series.
 
  
  In the game, there are four different types of races: Speedrace, Drift, Grip and Drag. Each one 
 of them looks very good in the beginning, but it ends up being the same all time, lacking andrenaline 
 and being very boring.
  
  What is good about the game is the increased detail the developers have given in case a car is 
 damaged. For example, if your hood is overdamaged, it may break. There it comes an interesting 
 feature which makes the game more realistic. And there are also damages in your car's performance.
 
  
  Another positive thing to be noticed in the game is the solid, amazing I could say online-multiplayer 
 mode. In ProStreet not only competitiveness is high-sky, but when you play career, your scores 
 are recorded to be published on the web. You can also build your own cars, upload and share them 
 into the net. And before I forget it, the cars of ProStreet are very good, offering many neew and 
 good customizations to the players.
  
  Visually, the game is an absolute dissapointment. Not only the graphics are badly-done, but also 
 so high are the requirements of the game, that in order for it to run fast enough, visual effect 
 must be completely disabled. Of course, unless you own a very high-resolution card or a smooth-enough 
 system to run the game.
  
  Need for Speed series dissapoint with ProStreet. The lack of original cop-races and street-rides 
 is a letdown. It is true that the series dying with the passing of the years.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DMC3
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 7, 2008 5:46 am PT
Review:  First of I don't know how anyone can play the game with keyboard. I tried it with keyboard and 
 i was finishing last with a 2-3 laps disadvantage, then i plugged in my steering wheel and on grip 
 races i was unstoppable. Even with stock car i could win a difficult race. Just for notice i was 
 playing with logitech driving force pro wheel.
  First the game modes:
  Grip - for me the best game mode. You get a nice sense of speed and can corner like a real car 
 would.
  Drag - has a 50% luck attached to it and on higher speeds with muscle cars it is almost impossible 
 to cross the finish line in piece. That meant a lot of money being wasted just on fixing the car 
 ,and the more you upgrade it the more it costs to fix it.
  Drift - is my second favorite mode because it feels great when you drift thru a whole stage without 
 hitting a wall ( with a little practice and fine tuning your car) . Bottom line drifting is great!
 
  The thing on the highway (i forgotten the name) - is in theory excellent but in practice is frustrating 
 because one little mistake and you're out! Big bada bum and you have to use a total repair marker.
 
  I gave the game a score 7.5 because it's not a type of game which you want to finish. It's a type 
 of game which you play just to play it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: OveR-
Rating: 3.5
Date: Nov 19, 2008 4:02 pm PT
Review:  Playing this game makes me mad. Very mad. The difficulty sometimes goes from extremely easy to 
 impossible. Which is mostly the case for the top speed runs. When I drive a car I dont want to 
 be forced to steer the car left right left right left right just to keep it on the road. Out of 
 20 tries I actually manage to drive my Zonda to the finish line maybe 1 time... The handling is 
 just disastrous, and tuning doesnt help a lot. Plus the assists make the car slow down by a couple 
 of 100 km/h just before the camera in the Top speed runs, really lovely. And turning them off just 
 makes the car go crazy and shaky.
  
  The maps are very repetetive, you're doing the same over and over and everything looks the same. 
 They made the racing "legal" which seems to mean that the tracks have to be boring automatically. 
 The story mode sucks, you dont really feel any reason to keep driving and completing the game. 
 The announcer in the game is a real @ss-kisser and keeps saying your name 10 times per minute, 
 until you feel like puking, could they make him more annoying?
  
  Also whats up with the requirements? Highest settings gave me the same amount of lag as everything 
 off and low resolution, with my single core Athlon and 8800GT. The game's a real hog. Still getting 
 some input lag when turning with my 3,16 Ghz Core2 Duo.
  
  Go on EA, go ruin some more games please. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: john_wildt
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 27, 2008 11:30 pm PT
Review:  The first thing (before you even start the game) you notice is an abundance of flashy videos and 
 graphics and so on. But you can manage to get past that, just takes a lot of time, and does not 
 feel relevant.
  
  The driving is pretty good, it has an arcade like feeling as all games in the series had, so it's 
 expected. The game is basically about tuning and tweaking which also works fine until you realize 
 that a car behave entirely different in the game modes even if you don't tune it differently.
 
  Speaking of game modes... The only really good game mode is 'Grip' which includes circuit racing 
 and time attack and so on. Though for some reason the good old 'Sprint' is removed. The other game 
 modes are drag - which works pretty good with the tuning concept - and drifting (drifting never 
 impressed me) .
  
  There is also one last game mode, speed challenge. This mode should be removed as it is the worst. 
 Also includes the worst tracks. The best part is that it is unfair; You don't even have to make 
 a mistake to lose, or get totaled for that matter. Basically it's about driving at top speed on 
 a slow turning road with lots of bumps. Doesn't add any fun at all. Also some tracks are almost 
 impossible,
  
  Personally I don't think EA made the right decision to bring the street racing to legal circuits 
 and remove the police. Otherwise it's pretty decent, it has all the elements a car game should 
 have. Cool looking maps and lots of cars to mention some. The styling scene is very much better 
 than prequels. Very very much better.
  
  It's pretty flawed and all but still good action. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nukeboy14
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 25, 2008 5:23 am PT
Review:  If you like racing simulators, this is your game, if you like nfs as we know it, stay away! this 
 game is completely crap and i don't know why ea had thought of making it !no street racing, no 
 big open city for you to drive in, and most of all, NO POLICE !!!!!!!!
  So this covers it up that Need For speed prostreet = bad
  and all nfs fans (including me) will 
 hate it.
  The only thing good about the game is the customization, but that doesn't matter much, because 
 its actually how the game plays is what matters, so it wont be a difference if you could use stuff 
 from real brands or anything .Damage is also a notable feature but i actually hate the damage, 
 you spend more money fixing your car than other things
  p. s i would actually love to give this game a 0/10 but 1 is the closest thing possible. So plz 
 , i beg of you to not play this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: king_pro_aza
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 17, 2008 7:01 pm PT
Review:  this is one of the best NFS games i've played. i started playing NFS Underground 2 - pretty sick 
 game. then followed my NFS Most Wanted which was extremely fun. Carbon was ok - the only good races 
 were canyon races.
  
  i don't quite understand how Gamespot only rates it 6.5/10. it deserves at least an 8/10. 
  
 
  the graphics are outstanding, perfect car geometry/modeling. the customisation which includes 
 tuning as well as upgrading is a very good inclusion to the game - tuning your car makes a huge 
 difference. 
  gameplay is also excellent - the perfect combination or arcade and simulation racing.
  
  i 
 don't see the big deal about a free-roaming city. there isn't one in GT4 or Forza Motorsport is 
 there? plus, you'll eventually get bored from just driving around in a city. 
  
  slight problems/annoyances include :
  i get a bit annoyed from the smoke in drift races. i can't 
 see my cars sometimes. 
  and my game crashes a few times. (should be fixed when i patch it)
  
  9.5/10 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: asestar
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 14, 2008 6:19 pm PT
Review:  I tried this game when it came out and my pc couldnt run it. On everything medium and most effects 
 turned off, it didnt look any better than Most Wanted so i lost interest.
  
  Recently after upgrading my system (8800GT and E8500) this game came alive. Beautifully rendered 
 cars, insanely detailed tracks and the damage model when racing goes wrong, all an experience. 
 
  
  
  But first: Graphics (9.5/10)
  What can i say, its the best there is. Only thing i could ask for would be an interior view of 
 cars, but seems like that is asking too much. Other than that, perfect.
  
  
  Sound effects (9/10)
  All good here again. Very good engine note, whine of supercharger, gearbox, 
 brakes, tire squeal and crashes. All good again.
  Should mention that Voice Acting of event announcers is quite ok, but the whole idea of having 
 them is rubbish. 
  
  Music (4/10)
  I didnt like music in this game. I am a big fan of Rap and HipHop and the few songs that were here 
 are by unknown artists and generally boring. Some tracks are so bad i turned them off. Big disappointment 
 compared to previous NFS games.
  
  
  Gameplay (8/10)
  Gameplay is very solid for a track racer. There is drifting, drag racing on 1/4mile or 1/2mile 
 straights (like it should be! no stupid traffic-dodging-lane-switch here) , circuit race, time attack, 
 A-B race and collective top speed challenges. 
  
  Thats a lot of gameplay modes, but there are a few problems with some of them. My main issue is 
 with Time Attack mode where there are other cars on track ALWAYS going so slow it seems they deliberately 
 trying to get in your way. Next, Sector Attack mode is very confusing and annoying. Grip Class 
 mode where there are 2 classes of cars on track together (slow and fast) feels unnecessary. It 
 would be fun on a long track and endurance race with lot of classes of cars (think LeMans) but 
 on 1min lap tracks its just wrong.
  
  
  
  Handling (8.5/10)
  Cars handle a lot realistically than you might imagine. You feel the difference between FWD and 
 RWD cars, feel the momentum and weight of 4wd cars and there are even characteristic handling touches 
 of some well known cars depicted nicely here. One example is the famous understeering of Lotus 
 Elise unless driven properly. Monaro (GTO) likes to drift and slide widely, AE86 is spectacularly 
 slow next to a Lexus but it is still one of best at drift, big v8 cars shake and roar on drag strips 
 like they're supposed to and keeping your Koenigsegg stable at 400kph downhill is gonna take all 
 your nerve without that rear spoiler. Its epic!
  
  My only issues with handling is the lack of option to tune handling when in a session. U can change 
 settings during practise, but it resets to whatever u chose before entering the session when it 
 comes to race. Makes it impossible to win both small, twisty circuits and fast tracks using same 
 car. 
  
  
  Interface (2.5/10)
  Whoever thought having a whole interface based on graffiti should be shot. And whoever came up 
 with idea that a car set up for dragrace cant be used for speed challenge (or a 4wd car unusable 
 for drifting) should 
  be shot twice. 
  
  Interface is a real mess. Navigating the race events is a challenge in itself, but the whole 1-car=1-role 
 idea is quite stupid. Why cant i use my perfectly nice handling and fast track car for drag or 
 drift? Why do i need a new car for every race type.. 
  
  And the car management system is quite impossible. You can not see detailed specs of cars before 
 buying.. cant test how they perform in different roles (drift, drag, track etc) before buying.. 
 It gets awkward.
  
  
  
  Overall, this game is certainly one that grows on you. There are so many cars (total 72 or so) 
 that you will want to own all of them eventually. Too bad this game's music and interface are so 
 bad, it could be true masterpiece. 8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anitrex
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 9, 2008 6:26 am PT
Review:  Excellent, Immersive and realistic (almost a simulation) . But that's where the problem lies. NFS 
 is expected to be an arcade game and not a simulation.
  If you go into this game expecting for of Carbon style gameplay from this then you are going to 
 be disappointed.
  
  But if you approach this game from a fresh point of view it will not take much time to notice the 
 way in which ProStreet stands out compared to Carbon.
  In carbon the gameplay was totally unrealistic. It felt like you were driving some kind of metallic 
 object around a curving surface. But in ProStreet you actually feel like you are behind the wheels. 
 You can really experience the thrill in every turn and corner while still keeping things real-world 
 like. You actually feel like you are driving a real world car and not some skateboard. But that's 
 where the problem lies. 
  
  Actually speaking of the game does a good job in putting the player behind the wheels in a real 
 world environment. But the NFS series is not really known for that. When people say NFS its arcade 
 style gaming that comes to our minds. People bought this game thinking it would be an arcade style 
 racing game like Carbon and Most Wanted. And that's why they were so disappointed. If this game 
 wouldn't have been released under the NFS title then this game would have definitely got a thumbs 
 up from the simulation point of view. And one more thing. As far as simulation is considered Grid 
 definitely beats this game to the throat. Maybe that's why EA decided to put this game under the 
 NeedForSpeed banner to avoid such competition. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ayasdutta
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 20, 2008 7:03 pm PT
Review:  I know that advertising brings in more revenue, which helps make more realistic games, but there 
 is a limit to how much advertising is not only appropriate, but also relevant.
  
  First annoyance was with Battlefield 2142, which sports ads from today (which, in the environment 
 you play in, makes it over 100 years ago) . Now, a racing game that is saturated with sooooo much 
 advertising, you start to question whether you are buying a video game or a commercial several 
 hours long.
  
  Even worse, the ad downloading really saturates your Internet connection; those who have modems 
 beware!
  
  Look, a pro-race game has some advertising in it; that fact is hard to deny, whether watching NASCAR 
 or detailing a pro racing vehicle. EA's spin on it, however, goes too over the top for me. Best 
 to rent it, if you can...... or wait for the price to drop to $10 or less. Believe me, you're not 
 missing much here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: taas
Rating: 4.5
Date: Sep 12, 2008 1:21 am PT
Review:  Totally unidimensional game no fun after few races makes it very disappointing. Very bad experience. 
 EA Games Just concentrated on graphics no innovative game play just the old track racing. It lacks 
 the city outruns which was featured in the earlier versions which made this series the worst of 
 all. On my personal experience this is the only series which I felt bored on the whole Need for 
 Speed universe. But other nfs seris like nfs underground 2, nfs carbon and most wanted are good. However 
 Prostreet rules in Graphics. I wonder Need for Speed Undercover is better than this. That's all the 
 review. (nfs nfs nfs nfs nfs nfs nfs nfs nfs nfs nfs nfs) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RonHack
Rating: 1.5
Date: Sep 4, 2008 7:51 am PT
Review:  I know that advertising brings in more revenue, which helps make more realistic games, but there 
 is a limit to how much advertising is not only appropriate, but also relevant.
  
  First annoyance was with Battlefield 2142, which sports ads from today (which, in the environment 
 you play in, makes it over 100 years ago) . Now, a racing game that is saturated with sooooo much 
 advertising, you start to question whether you are buying a video game or a commercial several 
 hours long.
  
  Even worse, the ad downloading really saturates your Internet connection; those who have modems 
 beware!
  
  Look, a pro-race game has some advertising in it; that fact is hard to deny, whether watching NASCAR 
 or detailing a pro racing vehicle. EA's spin on it, however, goes too over the top for me. Best 
 to rent it, if you can...... or wait for the price to drop to $10 or less. Believe me, you're not 
 missing much here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Karthik1994
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 2, 2008 8:32 am PT
Review:  Need for speed prostreet is a major dissapointment considering that it is a NFS game i expected 
 a lot from it. Firstly, The handling of the cars is pathetic! It is not realistic. There is also 
 no free roam. It can get monotonous after many races. It is so boring that there is hardly anything 
 in the game which can addict you to play for hours. Yes, the customisation has been improved from 
 the previous NFS games. The customisation options are very vast which is the only upside to an 
 otherwise very boring game. NFS Prostreet definitely is the most disappointing NFS game. The graphics 
 is decent. The cars look ok. You have to burn up your tires to get grip in the beginning of a drag 
 race which i think is very frustrating and a waste of time. I do not recommend this game to anyone. 
 But those who like customising other than anything else NFS prostreet is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eftagrothos
Rating: 5.5
Date: Aug 21, 2008 12:42 pm PT
Review:  It is so sad to wait for the new Need For Speed game and get such a disappointment like Pro Street. 
 The game runs completely in circuits, any race on the street known from the prequels is totally 
 not there. In contract it is good to see some new cars and sets of upgrades but that can't do much 
 and get the load of the disappointment coming from the game-play. Where are the open freeways full 
 of sightseeing along the way right and left? Also where did the drifting competition modes go known 
 from the last Need For Speed? (talking about Carbon) . All gone... Only some boring closed circuits 
 that you have to go round and round the same way. The only thing to see some cheering crowd and 
 some chicks half naked, but where is the adrenaline? Hope the next game from EA set the standards 
 higher as it used to be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: juliozaroot
Rating: 4
Date: Jul 28, 2008 11:52 pm PT
Review:  This game is awful. When the Underground was released the customization of your vehicle was awesome, 
 then Underground 2, the cool features of Underground were available and more (like hydros, 5 cars 
 in garage, etc.) and also the free mode. 
  For Most Wanted some customization features were removed, but they add some cool stuff, for example: 
 Speed-breaker, Pursuits, etc.
  Need for Speed Carbon have more features and the most important: Autosculpt. The division of the 
 map for each type of car (muscle, exotic, tuner) .
  But...
  ProStreet...
  The only different thing that can be considered different is the race track. The "street" style 
 that have given a lot of fame to this series, have been changed, and now the game is like another 
 game like Forza or Gran Turismo, but worst that them. And the system requirements for computer 
 are so big for this game. The game play difficult is the luck, because when you never think an 
 opponent got totaled and becomes an obstacle for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nitronith
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 24, 2008 5:29 am PT
Review:  Need for Speed Prostreet is the latest game from the very famous NFS series by EA games. Unlike 
 all the other games in the series Prostreet stands out in almost every aspect. Graphics, physics, 
 damage, game play, new races everything is taken up tot a new level by the EA team. You play as 
 Ryan Cooper a rookie racer who gets into various racing organizations to achieve the name of Street 
 King. But there a long way to go before you can finish the game and be crowned the 'KING. You have 
 to finish many races days and dominate them to be able to challenge your rival Ryo the so called 
 Showdown King. New races types include Grip, Grip Class, Speed Challenge and Top speed run. The 
 Drag and Drift races are also included but you will find a whole lot of changes in those races 
 too. First timers will have to sweat it out (literally!!) a lot to even think about finishing the 
 game.
  
  This time it's a simulation type racing which means you won't be able to turn or make those cool 
 moves you did in Most Wanted or Carbon. So you have to apply the brakes or slowdown a bit to get 
 into that curves. Otherwise you can enjoy your modded car skidding off the road and smashing into 
 the barricade. This is a problem as there is damage feature which will get your side mirrors hanging 
 and your bumpers to fly off. You will also find a lot new features in modifying and upgrading your 
 car. The game requires you to tune it to the max to get your car equipped for the different races. 
 Graphics looks more polished with added detail to the environment and crowds. Smoke is the best 
 thing to be commented in graphics. Now see your tire burn like hell and smoke up so much so that 
 your car won't be visible after sometime! 
  
  Although the game has a lot of new concepts it fails to entertain the group of gamers who use to 
 play NFS for that fast paced racing action like that in Most Wanted. So if you are not into cars 
 and racing that much this game is not for you. And by the way they are releasing a expansion pack 
 which features Bugatti Veyron!!. So you might want to get your hands on it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: afwsl2003
Rating: 5
Date: Jul 14, 2008 6:41 am PT
Review:  Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad 
 Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad 
 Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad 
 Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad 
 Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad 
 Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad 
 Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad 
 Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad .
  
  Dont buy this and dont think of playing this. It sux and it doesn't deserve a review.
  
  Bad 
 Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad 
 Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad 
 Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad Bad 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FlawL3Ss147
Rating: 1.5
Date: Jul 11, 2008 3:54 am PT
Review:  I mean what the hell! EA seems to make games just to look at them. It's like they ALWAYS work on 
 graphics. This game had such annoying characters that had such bad voice acting, that I nearly 
 banged my head at a wall. I'd say just stick to any NFS game besides Carbon and this.
  
  It would be good if EA could get rid of that "pimp my ride" theme. It's getting so boring. On this 
 game, I could say EA's "BIG" work was on graphics and the smoke effects, but You can't see the 
 smoke on lower end PC's, So WHAT'S THE POINT? Movement of the car was A** (apologies) .
  
  EA should stop making crap games, and LOOK back at the good games, like Most wanted, Porche Unleashed, 
 Hot Pursuit 1 'n 2, maybe at the first and second in the series, like I mentioned EA seems to make 
 games just to look at the "beautiful" graphics that looks like S*** on lower end PC's.
  
  I heard that they are making a new NFS game... *sigh* 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Iron_gator
Rating: 5
Date: Jul 7, 2008 9:19 am PT
Review:  You might wanna play by your self . On this game online flaws are its downfall. The game online 
 is so bad that a dumb ass could have put it together better. 1ST: I cant see who the hell keeps 
 ramming into me. 2ND: rubber banding is apparently Very frequent. 3RD: watch out for the rubber 
 banders they can be anywhere. they are like land mines you cant see them untill BOOM! 4TH: Zombie 
 cars. When you crash you need to be out of the race let the better players continue to race.5TH 
 What? i cant hear you. voicing from the other players keeps cuting out. ok some good things. the 
 single player game is well built. i like the customization you can put on your car. Back to the 
 bad. I would have like to have seen a lot more cars that the small amount they give you. It would 
 have been a lot more fun if you could drive around to these events in stead of siting there. the 
 bosses are kind of a little to hard even for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mariusyka
Rating: 1
Date: Jun 28, 2008 2:49 pm PT
Review:  The Need for speed Pro Street really sucks. Why am I saying this???
  Well, the ideea of the game sucks, graphics are boring and the game doesnt bring us something new.
 
  The gameplay is a stupidy, because they think now in our days all of us are gangesters and they 
 have created the game "life street"..... What of bunch of idiots.
  DUDES the need for speed series was AWEOSME..... Need for speed most wanted was amazing, Need for 
 speed Carbon was wonderfull, the ideea of the game, de difficult mode and the boss "fights" it 
 was tottaly awesome.
  But when they've created this stupidity of the game they really sucked.......
  I have played 
 allot of driving games and not all of them were so fabulos but it wasnt boring like NFS Pro Street...... For 
 example of a destroyed game GRID.....
  I guess you are wondering why am I keep saying such things...... One recoamndation for you..... Play 
 the games NFS Pro Street and GRID and then tell me your opinion........
  So thanks EA GAMES for this bad joke!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shahm01
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 20, 2008 3:52 am PT
Review:  In this vesion of NEED FOR SPEED they just killed the soul of NFS games
  they killed the fun .... they killed the action ..... as I said the killed the soul of NFS.
  
 as i said in the MustWanted and Carbon you can play free room 
  and you can be a real MustWanted also You can have the whole action
  when the police trying ta 
 catch ya and you're tryin' to save your botton
  That were about bad things .
  there is a few good things in the game like the new cars and tune thisgs 
  and the lot of costumiz 
 you can do and controling is very good too
  
  about the difficulty the made it hard for nothig specialy with the mitsubishi
  fool you can't 
 beat him with the Lambourghini and the same with the Zonda
  and in this vesion you get boring when you finish the half game cuz you feel it is the same road 
 every time you race thats just about the grip 
  but the wheely . drift . drag . speed chellengs you can feel the action going up to your head 
 
  i hope the next version of NFS will be like we like and thanks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: codename-60091
Rating: 1
Date: Jun 19, 2008 8:00 pm PT
Review:  BLOODY HELL
  WASTE OF MONEY
  BORING GAME
  I WANTED TO KILL THE ANNOUNCER
  
  STRESSFULL ANNOUNCER-AGAIN IT MADE MY HEAD BLOW!!
  
  ALL THE REVIEW THAT GAMESPOT GIVES IS 
 SOO TRUE!
  
  DAMN THIS GAME. DONT EXPECT ME TO BUY ORIGINAL NFS GAME ANY SOONER!!
  
  
  NFS-PROSTREET U ARE IN MY LIST OF PIRATED GAMES NOW!!! 
  NFS-PROSTREET U ARE IN MY LIST OF 
 PIRATED GAMES NOW!!! NFS-PROSTREET U ARE IN MY LIST OF PIRATED GAMES NOW!!! 
  NFS-PROSTREET U ARE IN MY LIST OF PIRATED GAMES NOW!!! 
  NFS-PROSTREET U ARE IN MY LIST OF PIRATED 
 GAMES NOW!!! 
  NFS-PROSTREET U ARE IN MY LIST OF PIRATED GAMES NOW!!! 
  NFS-PROSTREET U ARE IN MY LIST OF PIRATED GAMES NOW!!! 
  NFS-PROSTREET U ARE IN MY LIST OF PIRATED 
 GAMES NOW!!! 
  NFS-PROSTREET U ARE IN MY LIST OF PIRATED GAMES NOW!!! 
  NFS-PROSTREET U ARE IN MY LIST OF PIRATED GAMES NOW!!! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chilean_demon
Rating: 1
Date: Jun 11, 2008 1:14 pm PT
Review:  I just love the need for speed saga since I have memories, they all have something really nice. 
 I start to fell like heaven when UNDERGROUND apperas, and since that every game was great (like 
 being part of THE FAST AND THE FURIOUS 1, 2 AND 3) , but OH MYY GOD WHAT THEY DID!!!!!!..... The 
 creation crew of this game should be fired out from EA, they kill every part of fan from NEED FOR 
 SPEED:
  
  1.- I think they just look to Need for Speed Most Wanted and Carbon and just said: OK, JUST LET 
 TAKE ALL THE FUN AWAY AND IMPROVE THE GRAPHICS.
  
  2.- They took the only STREET RACING GAME who let you fell like rinning away from cops and they 
 give us something like BARNEY IN A CAR.
  
  3.- The just remove all option about tunning your own car, and they just give you a car (PLEASE 
 KILL THE GUY WHO THINK THIS)
  
  4.- You have nitro but you can only use it twice and completly, nothing like a litlle push to nitro 
 to improve the way you pass between 1 to 2, 2 to 3.... no now you just have too think about how 
 to be faster without the nitro (BELIEVE THERE IR NO WAY YOU CAN LOVE NITRO IN THIS GAME, YOU JUST 
 FORGET THERE IR NITRO AND DISABLE THAT OPTION)
  
  5.- The story sucks..... there is no way to learn how to use these PRE-TUNED cars... you just start 
 playing it without any reason and without a HOT AND ADDICTIVE STORY (like THE LIST in MOST WANTED, 
 ot TERRITORIES in CARBON)
  
  6.- If you really love need for speed PLEASE DONT TRY IT... you are gonna feel like playing designed 
 by a teacher of a class DRIVE SAFE AND RESPECT THE RULES.
  
  There is no way to keep playing this game when you already played 2 races, you just feel really 
 bored and start to think about in a new title like GTR, GRID or something like that.
  
  For me they just leave a big hole in the game space, because now there is no racing game who make 
 you feel great when you play it. Now the only title who works for me is JUICED 2: HOT IMPORT NIGHT 
 but is not the same...... they just killed and I really hate EA GAMES because of that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maniksdi
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 7, 2008 4:54 am PT
Review:  NFS is the first racing series that ever felt like racing since it's first release . . with conflict 
 of simulation and arcade racing the game has come a long road . . I've always loved the name and 
 never regretted sticking to it . . I played NFS 2SE for more than 2 years . . 3 was a blast . . 
 4 is still one of the best racing games I've ever played . . 5 was beautiful . . . and after a 
 incomplete 6 came underground or NFS 7 . . . . . it was a revolutionary step taken by EA that changed 
 the car designs in my country (I am not kidding) . . . underground 2 was great . more like an upgrade 
 to 1 . . then MW, a racing game that felt like a car action movie . . later came Carbon undergrounding 
 MW . . . but long have we waited for PROSTREET . . the game with the best graphics in the series 
 so far with a lot of promises . . the trailers kept me dazzled, and my expectations raced through 
 the roofs . . . . till it's release, Prostreet looked like the best addition to NFS . . but after 
 release, it was painful
  
  my list of Good n Bad from the game:
  
  The GOOD:
  01. outstanding graphics with sharp modeling of both cars n worlds
  02. a big list of cars, perhaps 
 the best street racing list I've seen so far
  03. good customization for the car visuals, bright n colorful, thanks to good graphics
  04. original 
 tracks, feels original too
  05. special effects to audio tracks
  06. very good smoke and damage addition
  07. deep customization of performance (Neg: also complicated)
 
  
  
  The BAD:
  01. bad storyline
  02. Ryan Cooper . . who the hell is he? Why wearing a helmet all the time? . . looks like a pathetic 
 junkie with a pathetic name
  02. not many cut scenes, the ones available are not good either
  03. lacks most of the vinyl 
 packages from old nfs games
  04. still in vinyl layer limitations! . . . I have 3GB RAM n a Wolfdale for crying out loud!
 
  05. car controls are really bad . . does not feel like simulation, not good for arcade either
 
  06. some races are TOO easy . . and some are TOO hard . . once you have an upgraded EVO X, all 
 the races are TOO easy as well as TOO boring
  07. bosses are full of bugs . . sometimes they get totaled within races, sometimes they pull stunts!
 
  08. sometimes you may ask yourself, why am I playing this if it is not for fun?
  09. boring menus . . looks flat n simple
  10. no fmv or cg of the real flag girls . . the animated 
 ones are impressive for the first 5 races only . . . what a waste
  11. damages are good . . but the real framework of the car is a metallic box . . can be seen once 
 the car is badly totaled . . so basically we are racing a box on wheels all the time
  12. so good graphics, but not many flashy objects for the eyes
  13. drifting got limited . . 
 . . biased controls, bad tracks, unsatisfying scores
  * I can think of lot more . . but I am too bored to continue
  
  Best in the game:
  - DRAGS 
 ARE FUN AND CONTROLLABLE, cause you dont have to steer
  
  Worst in the game:
  - HORRIBLE GAMEPLAY compared to the older NFS games
  - NO REPLAYS, forget about saving them
 
  
  afterall . . NFS PROSTREET lacks more material than a basic racing game needs while it gives you 
 a lot of things that you cannot find anywhere else . . but careful on your decision to buy it if 
 you are not familiar with the game's gameplay . . rent it first
  
  -------------------
  SDI 
::::::

::::::
UserName: geniustiong
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 6, 2008 2:45 am PT
Review:  I thought Need For Speed Prostreet would be better than it's predecessor, Need For Speed Carbon. 
 Looks like we're all wrong. Need For Speed Prostreet is:
  
  1. Waste of time
  2. Boring
  3. ANNOYING
  
  
  Why? Firstly, it's because of the background the main menu 
 has. They just overdid it. Secondly, the in-game ads are bull. Every inch of a race day is filled 
 with advertisement billboards. Sure races are usually sponsored by other companies but again, EA 
 overdid this. Thirdly, the announcer insists on using your full in-game name (Ryan Cooper) whenever 
 he refers to you. It's like ST*U!!!! Vehicle sounds are also crap. The BMWs and GTO are examples 
 of it. If that wasn't annoying enough, visual detail sometimes tend to have annoying glitches that 
 block your line of sight. The cops from previous games have also been removed. Kiss it bye bye 
 cause you're not gonna be chased anywhere. All you do is total your car and marker or cash repair 
 it and that sucks. Most visuals also tend to cause lag if you're playing it on PC but if you have 
 a PC that can rig the full graphical power up, say..... 200 terrabytes of RAM, 10GHZ Processor 
 Speed and Nvidia geforce 8800GT.... Yeah that would work. That's another thing EA wrecked. Prostreet 
 just didn't have the feeling of SPEED thx to EA's mess-up.
  
  
  
  
  DRIFT: YAY! NOW EVERYONE CAN DRIFT! What the hell was that s**t?
  
  Speed Challenge/Grip Race: 
 LOL I GOT A BOUNCING CAR! XD
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: INSIDEMAN65
Rating: 1
Date: May 20, 2008 8:18 am PT
Review:  What a let down this game is, i guess i expected more on the lines of "carbon" type of game, this 
 game has nothing to do with the original need for speed storyline, it just a whole new game that 
 EA pushed on us using the Need for speed name. i dident lkie it whatsoever, played it for 2 hours 
 its off the computer and im loading back my carbon. next time EA comes out with a new game i hope 
 thay thay will worn us first, im guessing in there tests of the game thay knew how bad it was and 
 dicided to use need for speed name so it would sell, i bought it thinking of how good the other 
 need for speed games were and was had.. o well win some lose some. and this game is defenately 
 a loser. im told to write a revie of 800 characters, theres not that meny words to say about this 
 game unless wory working for EA and pushing this garbage. So to sum this up if your a "need for 
 speed" fan dont buy this becouse this is not "need for speed" its somthing totaly different, time 
 to go buy somthing different like GRID. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tony205
Rating: 10
Date: May 16, 2008 4:53 am PT
Review:  Finally, I've got ProStreet! Quick word: EA has done it again!
  1. Cars: As allways, the NFS series has very cool and famous cars from the world: Muscle cars (Shelby 
 GT500, Dodge Charger, Plymouth Hemi Cuda, Chevrolet Camaro, Chevrolet Corvette, Pontiac GTO) , Exotic 
 Cars (Ford GT, Audi TT, BMW M3, Subaru Impreza, Pagani Zonda F, Porsche 911) , and Tuner cars (Toyota 
 Supra, Nissan Skyline, Mitsubishi Evo IX, Mazda RX-8) . There are a total of 55 cars. ProStreet 
 is no stranger to this cars. I hane't tuned a ride yet, but from what I saw, customization is even 
 more complex and big compared with Carbon.
  2. Tracks: From Japan to Germany, to USA. These are the main countryes where ProStreet has it's 
 tracks. They are very fun to drive on and are filled with adverts...
  3. Graphics: Outstanding. When you drive, car models, tracks, people, sky, all are looking superb. 
 Cutscens arn't quite at the level of Carbon (if they where many) .
  4. Sound: Cars sound superb and the music isn't annoying.
  5. Gameplay: PHEWWW! How many changes! 
 NFS has pulled out of the arcade style driving and went to simulation. This way, is more fun and 
 realistic to drive a car. On the track has appeared the racing line. Races aren't illegal any more, 
 they have turned to legal. That's the reason why trere aren't COPS!!! It's a shame! Cop chasing 
 was one of NFS's strong point.
  6. Crashes: At last NFS has crashes! Damage is modeled very well and it's one of the best. You can 
 even get youre car totaled!
  Need For Speed ProStreet: I don't care what you or GS think of it because for me is the greatest 
 NFS game at the moment. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: digitalmohsin
Rating: 5.5
Date: May 14, 2008 12:32 pm PT
Review:  I am weeping and banging my forehead on floor. I waited long for this game, i was dying and when 
 i got the game, i died. Biggest FLOP from EA for NFS franchise. Wasting money and letting down many 
 gamers.
  THE BAD: 
   no realistic videos and cut scenes like in previous two games.
   I can't see models in game.
   No cops
   No traffic
   No shortcuts
   Poor menu
   Poor 
 game play
   Poor sound in commentary
   Game has serious performance issues
   Complex details.
  THE GOOD:
   Just satisfactory graphics.
   Music is better than NFS: Carbon
 
  A 110% disappointment.
  DON'T BUY THIS GAME
  Its better to play DiRT by Codemasters. I thought some one should kill me by BOMB. i am still hoping 
 for BEST game next to Pro Street. May be EA will get some lesson from this flop and try to release 
 next game which will be more perfect than NFS: MW and Carbon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mircea_calarasu
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 6, 2008 2:08 pm PT
Review:  By moving away from its arcade roots, ProStreet is awkwardly straddling the gap between Need For 
 Speed and Forza, having a firm foothold in neither, thus screwing itself over by chasing what it 
 perceives to be the most popular kind of racing game at this point in time.
  
  There are some very definite problems. Playing this with an Xbox 360 controller makes it impossible 
 to drive in a straight line, due to the lack of a thumbstick dead zone (making drag races a pain) .
 
  
  Also, the driving model has been almost completely redesigned to dispense with the series' usual 
 arcade handling, making the game far less satisfying to play. It lacks the grit and excitement 
 of a simulation, and it lacks the stupid fun of an arcade racer. It doesn't even have police chases.
 
  
  The game is composed of a series of Race Days and Showdowns, each broken into various racing events: 
 standard 'lots of cars go round' races, drag races, time trials and drift races.
  
  These events require you to tune your car to suit the particular type of race - and these setups 
 can then be saved as blueprints and traded online, if you enjoy doing pointless, ridiculous things 
 like that. I, personally, throw my blueprints off a bridge, if it's all the same to you, EA.
  
  Things pick up when the opponents eventually start to become challenging, and the tracks a 
 bit more varied, but the game gets off to a rough start and overall feels a bit too easy and slow-paced.
 
  
  Sure, there are far worse driving games than this one, but in terms of the Need For Speed series, 
 this is a dud note. If you want realism go for GTR2, if you want arcade go for NFS: Most Wanted, 
 and if you want to play a confused, bipolar racer that's lost its way in the big bold world of 
 scary next-generation racing titles, ProStreet won't let you down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kostis1993
Rating: 7
Date: May 2, 2008 6:43 am PT
Review:  Need for speed has always been one of the best choises for racing games fans. Every November, a 
 new one is delivered to the shops, with many new characteristics and things to do. The latest game, 
 Prostreet is taking the series to a new direction, where there are no cops, no freeroam but circuit 
 legal races. 
  The story is not very exciting, especially if it's compared with the older games' real actors. 
 In prostreet, there is no Cross, Razor or Darious but Ryo Watanabe. The player is Ryan Cooper, 
 a racer who tries to become the street king. The story presantation is not very good, with graphic 
 made characters and boring dialogues.
  As far as the gameplay is concerned, prostreet is rather boring. Everything seems too legal!!!! 
 The tracks are taken from real locations but they are not as fast as those in carbon or most wanted. 
 There are dozens of corners and turns, which don't let your car show it's real power. There are 
 four types of events. Grip, Drag, Drift and Speed Challenge. Grip is the traditional circuit race/time 
 attack. Drag is a straight line where you have 3 chances to set the course record. You may think 
 they are entertaining, but they are not because of having to heat your tires hundreds of times. 
 However, drift is better and more realistic than carbon. Finally, speed chalenges are the most 
 difficult events and the fastest too.
  You can tune your car with autosculpt, an option which allows you to create your own parts. There 
 are a lot of choises to make your ride unique. You can also share it with other players online. 
 
  The graphics are very nice. There are 55 cars in the game and they all like photorealistic, with 
 thousands of polygons. The tracks are also detailed but not as much as the cars. Finally, crashes 
 are the best part of the game, as it's very funny looking your car's parts !!!
  The game sound is rather usual. We 've got the car sounds we hear every year and the same effects. 
 The music is enjoying. EA TRAX has about 37 songs from Junkie XL, Bloc Party, Klaxons, CSS, Datarock 
 and Chromeo. During races you will also hear a commentator which is not very talented!!!!!!!!!! 
 His script is terrible with phrases like
  The online section is very good as you can do many things with it but we couldn't find players 
 to play and had a few frame rate problems while playing.
  Frame rate is generally a problem. It is not very fast and unless you have a high end computer, 
 you will notice many frame rate drops, with all the graphic effects enabled.
  To sum up, Prostreet is not an unforgettable game, but it can be quite interesting, especially 
 if you are a N. F. S. fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JetBradley
Rating: 1
Date: Apr 29, 2008 7:12 am PT
Review:  This is the worst need for speed game ever, even Carbon is better than this and Carbon was a pile 
 of dung itself. The steering is very flukey and the computer is always trying to hinder your progress 
 in some way. In speed challenges it passes you only to get in front and slam on the brakes. In 
 drag it starts cheating when you start winning. EA has completely ruined the NFS franchise, Most 
 Wanted was a hint at the manure sandwich that was approaching. While most wanted was a good game 
 it had tell tale signs that NFS's days of quality were numbered. Like the fact that EA completely 
 murdered customization, the underground games had truely unique parts that you could only get during 
 career. Most Wanted had pseudo unique parts which were unlocked at the end of the game. The truely 
 unique stuff was part of what made the Underground games good. In these newer games I'm pretty 
 much stuck with keeping the cars stock because the available parts and vinyls are a joke. Most 
 Wanted's saving grace was the fact that the Blacklist cars were truely unique and you were better 
 off leaving parts on those cars or else they were boring like every other car. In forza you can 
 replicate the M3 GTR from Most Wanted pretty much dead on, you can't even do that in Pro Street. 
 Hopefully the next need for speed won't be a triple whopper sized manure sandwich but knowing EA 
 they will start guessing what the customer wants rather than listen to the customer tell them what 
 they want. Idiots. Maybe EA will learn something but we all know they don't give a rat's ass it's 
 all about money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shahm
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 23, 2008 10:40 am PT
Review:  when they made the game they took care about the sounds and the graphics but they they forgot about 
 the action of the NFS in the last two versions of the NFS ( Carbon and Most Wanted ) you can feel 
 the greatness when you run away from the police or when you finish the first in some gang race 
   How ever in this version as i said there is no ACTION and this is the bad things in this part 
 of the NFS but if we looked to the light side we will see a great game with a great cars sounds 
 and great effects but the realy nice thing is when the car get damaged you feel it just like the 
 real world and i think the company disappoints the vans and a lot of them did not palyed the game 
 because the causes that I just talked about 
  and another thing i want to say : they made it hard for nothing 
  when you arrive to the final 
 parts of the game and you develop your lambo
  and make tip top and push it to the end of the end you still can't beat 
  the mitsubishi man 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poltraite
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 14, 2008 12:25 am PT
Review:  Having been an NFS fan for many years i felt the game-play here was a bit of a step back. The actual 
 strret-racing fun is not there any more. rather, we now have the legal scene of organised racing. 
 It would have been great to see both elements of carbon and pro-street in the same game and have 
 a continuation of the stories that started out in the previous NFS games.
  
  The choice of cars is, as usual, impressive, but personally, I'd like to see more affordable vehicles 
 which would make the game that much more realistic in that we'd see ourselves in our real-life 
 cars gunning down a 1/4 mile track. Imagine, if you will, modding and installing a body kit to 
 your old corolla then pitting it against a porsche.
  
  The graphics are very pretty, as usual. You do need a good card to get the best out of it though. 
 The actual driving system felt slightly different from the previous NFS titles. I use the keyboard, 
 so it took me a couple of minutes to get used to it. NFS fans will enjoy it, but i think we will 
 all be disappointed by the lack of the old 'free roam'.
  
  Still a game i enjoy playing when i feel the need for speed! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hardheartman
Rating: 4
Date: Apr 13, 2008 3:18 am PT
Review:  As a fan of the NFS series I must say I was very excited to buy this new release. But this game 
 is a great disappointment... Most Wanted left me feeling full and satisfied. Carbon left me full 
 but wanting more. ProStreet just left a sour taste in my mouth.
  Need for speed Pro Street is a big disappointment because all of the fun things about street racing 
 have gone and now you are racing at race weekends instead on the streets. I was expecting something 
 great and I'm absolutely dissapointed. Legal races? Where are the cops? Where is the essence of 
 NFS? Where is some traffic on the road? Shortcuts? What is the difference between other race games 
 now?
  Look at NFS MW - there is some soul, some story. I could upgrade my car. I could sell it, paint 
 it, buy new one, but now: nothing.
  The graphics is great in this game, really. The sounds are great but the commentary is so poorly 
 done i just can't express it. The carrier is almost boring and you need to dominate each of the 
 races if you want to keep going with the carrier. In ProStreet there is the car damage and it is 
 very good but also there is the note that Nitro is not unlimited as in NFS Most Wanted and in Carbon.
 
  and the results:
  2 or 3 hours of gameplay and nothing more... at all costs I tried to play a new NFS game, but I 
 dont see nothing that convinces me to continue... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NYuuRaKuS
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 8, 2008 12:12 am PT
Review:  Graphics wise, this is the nicest Need for Speed available. it looks better than its console brethren, 
 and seems to have better damage modeling. Too bad damage modeling didnt actually warp the body 
 of the car. The smoke makes racing seem more realistic. Races are fun (some of them) . I enjoyed 
 drag races and drift races a lot. The AI is horrible at drag races for some reason, even drift. 
 For the other races, its too fast paced and the car seems to weave quite a bit, making it hard 
 to control in high speed races, yet the computer manages to drive in perfectly straight lines (maybe 
 its just me) . There are too many repetitive races that get boring fast. The announcer makes competitions 
 irritating to sit through as there isnt much diversity in the dialogue and its just boring. The 
 sound of the cars and effects are pretty good. Visuals are decently nice (at max everything, it 
 still doesnt look "next gen" or nething tho) . With decent visuals, come detailed ads. These ads 
 however, are everywhere. Its not even realistic looking in many cases. This game had potential, 
 but with it aiming at the simulation driving rather than its native street/arcade racing style, 
 it became a failure. Ill stick with gran turismo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fw190a8
Rating: 3
Date: Apr 6, 2008 8:39 am PT
Review:  I still remember playing the first Need for Speed Underground game. It was a dark, gritty racer 
 with a good arcade driving feel, a solid soundtrack and a wide range of customization opportunities. 
 Sure, the way the opponents would slow down to let you catch up and speed up if you were doing 
 well was infuriating, but forgivable based on the game's other strengths.
  
  Since then, the Need for Speed series has transitioned firmly downhill, through mediocre and into 
 laughable. NFS ProStreet offers the flimsiest driving experience I remember in a professional game. 
 The cars feel utterly disconnected from the road, and more importantly, from your controller. Whether 
 you're using the keys, a control pad, or the wheel, they feel like they're gliding on an air cushion, 
 like a game of air hockey gone horribly wrong. Braking is far too rapid and cornering is often 
 a matter of aiming in the general direction and hoping for the best. More frustratingly, it seems 
 to be impossible to accelerate and corner at the same time, so you're constantly trying to straighten 
 out the corners to get more speed, instead of taking the natural racing line.
  
  Sure, there are some impressive damage features. Paint becomes scratched, body parts smash and 
 eventually come off. If this much attention had been given to the driving itself, this game might 
 have carried some weight. Unlike games like the Burnout series, there is no satisfaction or reward 
 for crashing, so adding an ultra-realistic damage system at the expense of other features seems 
 completely wasted. Colliding with other cars is a wholly unrealistic experience and it seems like 
 they're there to annoy you, braking far too early and then accelerating unbelievably quickly, rather 
 than being there to provide a genuine challenge.
  
  The menu system in the game is a nice experience but, like most Electronic Arts (EA) titles, is 
 massively overproduced. Whereas development houses like SimBim (GTR2, RACE '07) use their limited 
 budgets almost exclusively on the driving experience and provide enough menu functionality to be 
 user-friendly, EA seem to be obsessed with style over substance. ProStreet's soundtrack is great 
 and suits the game's style, but the menus have far too much attention given to them, to the point 
 of being farcical, and you can't help but feel the time applied here could have been used better 
 elsewhere.
  
  The whole idea behind ProStreet is that racing now takes place at a designated race track on a 
 race day, where multiple events occur. The game proudly parades its sense of responsibility, declaring 
 at the start, "it's time to take racing off the streets," and encouraging its players to limit 
 their racing activities in real life to racetracks. What does this say about all the previous Need 
 for Speed titles, where the racing was on roads and streets, often involving collisions with general 
 traffic? Personally, I don't have a problem with a fictional game featuring road racing or collisions 
 with traffic, because I can tell the difference between real life and a video game, and, like the 
 vast majority of people, won't start driving like a lunatic on the roads after playing a game. 
 It seems like EA are condemning their own series of games here, bowing to corporate pressure to 
 be 'responsible' game developers.
  
  Having played Need for Speed Carbon, the title immediately before ProStreet, and seeing EA's horrible 
 attempt to introduce a free-roaming environment, I had hoped for a return to basics with ProStreet, 
 going back and improving upon the original NFS Underground. It seems as though EA have not only 
 failed to learn from their mistakes, they just keep making them. EA games will continue to sell 
 through the sheer marketing power alone, there's no doubt about that, but until the games get better 
 than this, save your money.
  
  For a solid arcade experience, try Burnout Paradise or Test Drive Unlimited. For simulation, don't 
 miss out on RACE '07. If you'd rather totally waste money, you could burn it, or put it through 
 the washing machine. Just please don't line EA's pockets by buying this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sydney2003
Rating: 2
Date: Apr 3, 2008 10:45 am PT
Review:  This game is pretty lame. It looks great, but when you drive a car, doesn't matter what one, it's 
 nothing like a real car at all. I was watching the production interviews, with EA stating that 
 they went to the manufactures of the cars to get the most real effects and characteristics but 
 they're just nothing like how a real car would react.
  
  I can fully speed into a corner, and turn without braking, and it slows me right down on its own, 
 so much so that so far I've found it impossible to accelerate during a corner, and cannot go round 
 one any faster that 45mph, and the average speed I've been forced to take them is 25mph.
  
  This is s**t, so unrealistic and I hate it for that. I haven't been able to do one single decent 
 turn, or slide round a corner.
  
  Shame on EA, a poor game for a new one. The only good thing about it is the way it looks.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Gameinator
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 9, 2008 4:59 am PT
Review:  Need for speed Pro Street is a big disappointment because all of the fun things about street racing 
 have gone and now you are racing at race weekends instead on the streets.
  
  You play as Ryan Cooper an ex street racer who quit street racing (that is the first part where 
 EA stuffed up on this) and joined legal race days and you want to become street king by defeating 
 all of the race kings the speed king, the drift king, the grip king, the drag king, and most of 
 all Ryo Wantanabe the showdown king. During the game you come across showdowns where you have to 
 dominate the race day to continue to the next race day set of events (It is hard to complete the 
 showdowns if you do not have enough cash which frustrates you) the event hosts are Battle Machine, 
 React Team Sessions, Super Promotion, Noise Bomb, Rouge Speed, G Effect and Nitrocide.
  
  I have recently noticed there is a not so bad motion blur if you turn your detail up to max but 
 it causes a heap of lag on some computers and you can also have some people at the race day looking 
 at your car and getting into fights but Ea went overboard in the races with the 3d crowd in some 
 races it can take 30 minutes to finish a 5 minute race on a lot of computers but beside that it 
 is pretty good.
  
  I originally hated the car slowing down at corners but i changed assists to KING and everything 
 turned out ok. The AI is a bit frustrating because sometimes they get in your way by braking right 
 in front of you. At the start of some races the AI just goes from the line with ease but it takes 
 you 2 seconds to skid off the start line.
  
  This game was a big disappointment to me except for the new damage system which allows you to damage 
 your car to a certain point until you total not allowing you to finish the race. If you enjoyed 
 the street racing of the previous need for speed games i would not recommend this for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PhantomFury_
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 25, 2008 9:34 am PT
Review:  First of all,
  I like the game's graphics. It actually makes me want to buy some of the cars and style them like 
 I did in the game. Cos I know that it will look very similar. That's for the (short ( positive part.
 
  
  I'm starting of with the fact they removed the motion blur. WHY? I liked the motion blur. No more 
 sandbox driving around in a city.. that's what the previous ones more interesting. Nah.. they replaced 
 it with some boring races that'r the same most of the time. No support for widescreen, euhhh, black 
 borders anyone?
  
  The biggest problem is that the game ALLLLWAYS crashes. Well, it doesnt really crash at start (I 
 got an E6600, 8800GTS btw) . But after about 1 hour the game just freezes, it starts flashing red 
 blue purple and stuff.. gives me a popup that says 'NFS has stopped working' and then BAM!!!! : 
 fries the Nvidia display driver.
  I thought it might be caused by temperatures/ bad drivers. Updated to latest and kept a GPU temperature 
 monitor running beside the game. But temperatures didn't top over 85C (which isn't that high for 
 an 8800) .
  And since it's the only game that crashes my display driver... *lynch*
  
  But ok, I lived with the crashing and played on.. cos I still liked it at that time (the game that 
 is)
  But then... after a random crash I had.. the game refused to save to my profile. It loaded once 
 I selected my career.. but crashed when it had to save (like after a race) . I tried updating, thought 
 it'd worked, but when I looked at career overview it said I was still at race1 (still with the 
 same powerful cars) . That might sound cool, but believe me, it's boring and lame.
  
  AWH and can somebody shut that dude up
  RYAAANNNNN COOOPPPEERR... THAT'S MY BOY!!!
  Btw, for 
 of you Top Gear watchers, Stig anyone? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zxssded
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 24, 2008 6:56 am PT
Review:  Need for Speed: Pro Street is a goodish game. the racing feels good. the cars all feel differnet 
 and the game looks great with the graphics turned to full. totaling ur car is fun and the damage 
 is very relistic and the smoke ur car makes look amazing. yet it is missing something.... oh right 
 THE STORYLINE AND COP CHASES!!! the bad part of the game is there is NO story. all you do is race 
 and the cut scene are all computerised so you can say goodbye to the hot actresses. also haveing 
 no cops chases???? it speaks for itself... driving is good but it starts to lose its fun very quickly. 
 the new enviroments is good but there are only 5 to 10 tracks on each enviroment. drag races are 
 boring and the starting mini game seams useless. took me a while what it excutally did though but 
 still. the new type of race, speed challenge, is a good mode but i think it also gets too repetive. 
 dritf is very relistic in the scence that muscle cars CANNOT drift. (i personally love muscle cars 
 but that jsut how it is) grip is bacailly curcuit/sprint races which makes it also seem repetive. 
 compare this to a game like juiced 2? i think both of them combined would be cool. juiced 2 has 
 the worst gameplay yet has good customizeing option unlike need for speed. the wind tunnel is also 
 pretty useless. i think EA has gone the wrong way and should turn back and go abck to the CARBON 
 gameplay or Most Wanted. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jiraiya761
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 18, 2008 10:29 am PT
Review:  First of all, I actually have this game for the PlayStation 3 as well, and I love it. That makes 
 it all the more relevent when I say this: If you have a PS3 or Xbox 360, don't waste your money 
 on the PC version, because you WILL regret it.
  
  THE GOOD:
  I actually really like the way this game looks and feels. There's something about smooth, crisp 
 graphics and especially smooth cutscene graphics being displayed on a 17" laptop LCD screen only 
 10 or so inches away from you that's really pleasing. I'd go so far as to say that they're better 
 than those on the PS3 and 360 versions. And it's because of this clarity, crispness and smoothness 
 of graphics that makes the whole thing more enjoyable, especially if you're a fan of heavily modifying 
 a car, where the high detail of the graphics really help and reward you. Personally, i've yet to 
 play a PC game that matches this in the graphics department, but then this is coming from someone 
 who's used to playing Command & Conquer-style games like Red Alert 2. I'm a console fan and I don't 
 really play PC games, but play console games all the time, so when I got this game, the change 
 in graphics was a nice feel. Unfortunately however, the reason i'm going on and on about the graphics 
 is because this is all I have to say about the game in a positive light.
  
  THE BAD:
  I couldn't even do the first race. Why? Because once you've been won over by the stunning introduction 
 to the racing scene at the beginning of the game, the race starts and everything falls apart - 
 the frames of animation jutter and skip, the sound does the same, or is omitted altogether, and 
 as a result, just getting off the start line takes at least two minutes. I checked the minimum 
 game requirements to see if it was my laptop causing the problem, and my laptop has at least double 
 the minimum requirements in almost every field. After doing some research online, I found that 
 i'm definitely not alone in this - it's a problem with the game itself. And I think that's a real 
 shame because otherwise, this would easily be the best racing game for the PC, regardless of whether 
 or not you like what this new 'Need for Speed' game has become (that is, the 'illicit street racing' 
 element has been taken away and been replaced with some legal circuit racing) .
  
  OVERALL:
  I do feel like i've been robbed, on two accounts. The first account is my money - i 
 have wasted 30 on a game that I can't play. The second account is that it's such a shame, because 
 this would otherwise keep me entertained for hours on end, every single day. On the PS3 version, 
 I found there are hundreds of strategies and possibilities, adding to the replay value. For example, 
 on one career i'd start with the Audi you get when you enter a cheat, and go through career using 
 expensive, exotic cars. On another career file, i'd trade in for an Impreza, make it look awesome, 
 and annihilate everyone in the grip class. I wanted the PC version because i'm not home all the 
 time, but i always have my laptop with me whenever i'm not home. If this game wasn't so bad, it 
 would have been so good. 
  
  I'm going to give it 5/10, based on the fact that it's swings and roundabouts - if it works, it's 
 worth at least 9, because it's definitely the best racing game on the PC, and that's no easy feat. 
 If it doesn't work, it's worth 0, because fancy graphics alone does not make a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XFireCrossX
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 27, 2008 7:45 am PT
Review:  Need For Speed Pro Street is a completely different take on the need for speed series. It's true 
 that it has step away from its old school concept and implode new school concepts. sad to say, 
 the new school concepts don't work out as we all know the nfs series of being fun and more street 
 like. this..... no way man. This is not street like. its only street like in a sense that you can 
 do all these kool stuff to your car and thats it and the whole plot progression of unlocking new 
 cars and new parts. the actual racing itself is like...... pro.... racing.... games like TOCA, 
 GTR, those type of games where the steering is just ARGHHHH. Furthermore we dun have the "open 
 world" environment which were in underground 2, most wanted and carbon. To break away from this 
 concept really is going back to Underground 1 in my opinion. Bad. Overall this is an ok bargain 
 if you are really desperate and a completely bias fan of nfs as it doesn't have too many let downs 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ballzilla
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 23, 2008 9:27 am PT
Review:  First off, the driving dynamics or physics.. whichever you prefer, they feel different. I've always 
 played the NFS series for their "arcade-y" approach and how they truely capture the sense of speed. 
 I never played it for realism. Hell if I wanted realism I'd get something like rFactor or GTR.
 
  
  Need for Speed Prostreet ventures into an area they shouldn't have and tries to imitate TOCA 3 
 but falls short. In essense, they made the game into road courses with no traffic. Although the 
 racing environment is graphically pleasing, it's just not the same as their Hot Pursuit series 
 or Underground, Most Wanted,, Carbon... What am I getting at? COPS. While that was sometimes irritating 
 in Carbon, I really missed the feature in Prostreet.
  
  I've mentioned the car physics were different then previous NFS generations. However, that may 
 be contributed by the fact that game controller adjustments are completely absent in the game. 
 My controller was over sensitive and there was no way to adjust it! While this maybe fine for the 
 normal road courses, it is practically impossible in game modes like Speed Challenge where every 
 bit of controller sensitivity will cause countless totals and restarts.
  
  The burnouts before the drag races are also irritating and pointless. Add to the fact that you 
 can't skip it nor can you access any menus during the burnout makes me very annoyed and angry. 
 
  
  Overall, I had high hopes for this game and was disappointed after my purchase. If you haven't 
 bought this yet, I'd highly advise you skip this title and look forward to something else. Surely, 
 it won't be what you are expecting from a NFS game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamerloks
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 23, 2008 7:47 am PT
Review:  in my personal opinion this game is the best in the series of NFS everything in this game was made 
 to the perfect fit is just an amazing game it has everything that a racing game should have from 
 true modifications to real car damage. This game is simple but very entreatining specially f u 
 are a car fanatic this game has it everything from drag racing to drift racing, the work in this 
 game is just spectacular. me myself anjoy playing this game onr of the reasons i like it so much 
 is because it has that feeling of realism that makes the game more fun to play. even dough the 
 the difficulty is not that great (well at least for me) the game itself was very well designed 
 it has most of the thing that other racing games dont have, for example most of the racing games 
 want it to be a fun and entraitaining game but they take away that realism. For example they make 
 the car indestructible (what the hell) in real racing you cant just crash at 200MPH and walk away 
 with a perfectly nice car thats impossible. Othe thing is that they fix the cars for you thats 
 not fun at all (at least for me) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elaryad
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 21, 2008 4:08 am PT
Review:  This is my knowledge about NFS series: NFS Most Wanted for PC, NFS Carbon for PS2 and now NFS Prostreet 
 for PC. I also vaguely remember NFS Underground for PC.
  First things first: this game is lots of fun (with several limitations) . I play it with full graphics, 
 so I don't have anything to complain about, graphically of course. Apart from that, this doesn't 
 seem like an NFS game to me. It is a racing game, I mean, a pretty regular racing game, without 
 magic and without variety of challenges. What is missing in this Prostreet is variety. 
  The developers choose to drop events like cop chase a la Most Wanted, if on NFS Carbon cop chasing 
 was softy, now it's gone for good. We don't have a city with shortcuts to explore, nor even a story, 
 solid or not, marking the pace. If Carbon's career was short but addictive, Prostreet's doesn't 
 have substance to fill such a long one. Probably you'll get bored with time (I still am not) if 
 you don't entertain yourself making money and developing your favourite ride's blueprints. Concerning 
 customization, lots of available options are cosmetic. Glad you don't need to spend money on painting, 
 decals, vinyls and other stuff so you can save and spend it on power and handling packages or on 
 other ride/components. 
  You need to have a vehicle per type of race. One car for grip races, another car for drag, etc. 
 If you are not careful during your racing day you can total you car. Try not to run out of total 
 repair markers and/or try to have a backup car. If you have none of the above with a totalled car 
 it's game over. But I don't think that would be a big problem anyway.
  I noticed one bad thing: I'm currently riding a Subaru Imprenza and I upgraded it a lot at the 
 beginning. The matter is that, during racing days, my opponent's rides are similar to my Subaru 
 but not similar in performance. So, in some grip/ time/sector races, I can almost catch the opponent 
 riding in last place. That decreases a lot the difficulty during the first racing days but makes 
 you comfortable to dominate races and get sweet prizes. 
  And I noticed another  thing: the sound. Since the little man 
 that announces the races, until the tracking list, everything concerning the sound is bad, excepting 
 the sound of the engines that is always a nice thing to ear. At this point I used the Options menu 
 and lowered almost everything. 
  Interesting are the differences between the vehicles concerning the playability. For drag races 
 I switched the Cobalt SS for the Chevrolet Chevelle SS and the difference was huge! You feel the 
 car in the tip of your fingers.
  The overall game is ok, medium features but highly entertaining and fun, a bit boring, a little 
 easy on the first levels, in-game advertising doesn't confuse you while racing, apart from engines 
 the sound is horrible and I also don't like the track list, but it's just my personal taste.
  Not close from expectations (I confess I really had none) but a game worth of your attention.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarwinBC
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 20, 2008 8:09 am PT
Review:  I 'm not wasting my time writing a full review on this game. Why EA changed the format of Need 
 for Speed is beyond me! 
  The announcer in is by far the worst in any game. Listen to his fifteen year old intellect spew 
 from the loud speaker made we want to cry. The closed, on course format does not serve this game 
 well. Don't come to pro street if you crave the old NFS format you will be deeply disappointed. 
 
  A change of pace is good for a lot of games, but that change needs to something that holds true 
 to made the franchise a hit to begin with.
  Take Burnout Paradise for example. It change from a closed world arcade racer to open world arcade 
 racer, plus they changed the crash mode to a more real time crash mechanic. This worked well for 
 Burnout. So what I'm trying to say? GO PLAY BURNOUT!!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nevermindwho
Rating: 2.5
Date: Feb 16, 2008 12:12 pm PT
Review:  The car graphics are very good, but everything else is not as good as the car. 
  
  The sounds were perfect, but I had quite a few glitches.
  I think that the game play is realy 
 simalar to previous need for speeds. Also it was quite easy from my point of view. But also i think 
 that the cheats can realy spoil the game. 
  The cars are very good, but there aren't a lot of them. Also I didn't like that for each type of 
 races you need a specific car, and if you want to change one car from for example grip to drag, 
 it will delete all of your settings for this car, even the visiual ones!!! 
  
  It is also realy disapointing that there is no free roam or cop chase in Need for Speed proStreet!!! 
 
  
  I think that Carbon is much better than ProStreet!!!
  
  I am so disapointed in this ''game''!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hassam7
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 10, 2008 6:27 am PT
Review:  OMG the game is much better than the PS2 ver. In this wen u enter a race day the pple r moving 
 there not stuck like a picture like in the PS2 ver. N the graphics r much better and color looks 
 v. sharp and nice. Besides tht the game has 55 cars compared 2 46 of the PS2 ver. Also there is 
 a crwd watching ure match! N the damage looks so real, the bumpers cme off. N in sme levels there 
 r 8 cars racing compared 2 4 cars max of PS2 ver. N the PC ver. has more options in the main menu 
 n there is smething called picture mode wich cmes wen u pause the game during gameplay wich lets 
 u see the car from each angle! 1 thing they didn't remove was the stupid characters n the annoying 
 DJ, Big J and Roger Evans. LOL
  
  I just wanna knw why didn't EA put these features in the PS2 ver. of the game. Thts wht I'm wondering. 
 
  
  I played this at my friend's house coz I don't play PC games n nevr will coz they r hard to cntrl! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: useless534
Rating: 2
Date: Feb 9, 2008 3:29 pm PT
Review:  First of all the first thing you notice is that there is no free roam. That just makes the game 
 horrible right from the start. I mean that is just what made the games pretty nice. One of the 
 good things is that you are allowed to really customize your parts. That is about the best thing 
 in this game i think, of coarse i didn't try the on-line stuff yet. The announcer in this game 
 is embarrassing to listen to. He just isn't voiced over very well. Also it makes it very repetitive 
 from the start. All this game is pretty much is a poor excuse for a NFS game. (putting that lightly) 
 I would really not recommend this one to the NFS fans, just because of all the good stuff left 
 out. If you really want to take this for a test drive, i suppose you could rent it if nothing else. 
 Trust me it is not worth the price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cravenlevay
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 8, 2008 11:02 am PT
Review:  This game is terrible. Graphics are crap. Wish they would make a better selection of cars. I thought 
 they made this game so people wanted to play it. Cuz I know if anyone actually bought it they feel 
 like somebody stole from their wallet. EA drops this game and it is a total bomb. They could not 
 have been thinking. The other Need for Speeds were good but how could they have went so wrong. 
 Ea hire me for some ideas cuz you really must be all out of sense. Who ever did this game needs 
 to be fired immediately. This game is so bad it offended me like someone insulted my momma. I cannot 
 wait to see if they put a new one out and if they have learned their lesson from this horrible 
 abortion of a game. I played this game for about 5 minutes any then angrily wiped it from my computer 
 for eternity. For God's sake do not buy this game if indeed like good games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: onuruca
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 7, 2008 8:36 am PT
Review:  Everything about NFS-Prostreet is broken.
  
  -The race day thing isn't fun at all. you will get wet while trying to get the point to dominate 
 the race day.
  -Racing is not fun anymore
  -AI is all messed up. On one race you can win at hard and at one race you can barely win at easy.
 
  -There are 4-5 different tracks. You'll always see the same tracks.
  -Being 'totaled' while you shouldn't be makes you crazy.
  -Upgrading isn't fun anymore too.
 
  -Same cars again since U2 and MW.
  -Only positive thing i can say about this game is that graphics are ok.
  -Damage models are not 
 bad on normal races but you understand that it's very bad when you get totaled.
  -Soundtrack... you know what is like. it shouldn't be the soundtrack for a racing game.
  
  so 
 yes, there isn't too much thing to say about prostreet, it's worst in the series, it's not fun to 
 play. don't buy it. don't buy nfs again if it will be 'legal racing' again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: s010057
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 5, 2008 5:04 am PT
Review:  Pros:
  Solid racing experience
  Many tuning options
  Creative online experience
  
  Cons:
  the DJs will make your ears bleed
  Lazy graphics editing
  
  In the game you act 
 as Ryan Cooper, an illegal street racing champ. You will start racing in smaller racing organizations, 
 like Battle Machine, and React Team Sessions. Then you will go on to much more bigger ones, such 
 as Super Promotion, Noise Bomb, and much more. The racing is solid, different cars handles differently, 
 some will do well on the strip, and some will do well in sideways. Though the commentary of the 
 NBA live and FIFA is one of EA's strengths, it doesn't feel right in Prostreet, they will always 
 call your full name, which is very annoying. There are 55 cars in this game, features imports, musles, 
 and even exotics like the 911s, a couple of Audis, and the legendary Pagani Zonda F! The graphics 
 are crispy and colourful, along with great lighting effects and damage models, but there are lazy 
 detailing like the character models, when you use the photo mode and look inside the cockpit, you 
 will see they only made half of the character, from the head to the chest, it sucks!! The online 
 mutiplayer is great, you can 
  share your blueprints and compete in Race Days together with other people, so you can show off 
 your hardwork to the rest of the world. Finally I give 6.5 because I hate the makers don't pay 
 attention to details and ruined the whole game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dk4ofjoshuayhyu
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 4, 2008 1:16 am PT
Review:  To rate this game, we will discuss separately in different areas.
  
  First, let's look at the graphics. The graphic of this game is just about average judging from 
 the effect over requirement ratio, which means higher for games not very demanding but showing 
 a good look but lower for demanding games with somewhat average looks. The goods first, I love 
 the road. The painting, the texture looks so real and I am always enjoying watching the road. Also, 
 the cars and the scratches looks good as soon as you didn't total your car. When you total your 
 car and making your bumper left off, it looks so stupid that the remains is like a rectangular 
 block. Everyone would know crashes which can "total" a car will eventually make the car collapses. 
 The audience is also terrible. They look terrible. Also, A racing game should concentrate its resources 
 on the cars, roads, etc, not the audience. So what is the point making 3D audience while they look 
 not really that good? There is also a lagging issue in the game due to improper allocation of graphical 
 memories in the game. The cockpit view is terrible. When you steer, you can see the car's hood 
 first turn to the direction then the camera. Who's gonna react that fast to guess where the car 
 is currently pointing to? The hood view is not that good as well. When you turn, you can see your 
 tires' print on the road. Absurd!
  
  Second, the audios. Someone may complain about the MC talking so poorly. But it is realistic, in 
 real cases, you won't be able to hear a damn thing due the the sounds of engines, tires, etc. So 
 a poor MC sound quality would make it look more realistic. But the speaking content is so weird 
 that he always talking about Ryan Cooper. For sure the MC won't be hired by Cooper, so why always 
 talking about him? It's normal to talk about a new star but it sounds too many Ryan Coopers. He 
 should talk more about your rival racers. The engines sound average. Every car sounds quite the 
 same. In real life, the engines should sound more differently.
  
  Third, gameplay. The gameplay of this game is relatively new to a NFS series. It is the first time 
 to have absolutely no police pursuit. It means that the series is now heading to a more realistic 
 style. The tuning system is ok. It enables you to set your ride according to your driving style 
 and it is much more advanced than the NFS: Carbon's system. However, the "details" is so undetailed. 
 Who's gonna know how to start with when you can't find suitable tutorials? It is also so terrible 
 that you can't tune your car in challenge racedays and EA is tuning the car so weirdly. Who will 
 make the car being so eager to oversteer in a speed challenge? And who will boost the end that 
 much in a race with a lot of corners while you can't really get your speed above 100 km/h? It is 
 also weird to lock the car lot. Locking races is normal that you really have to get good fumes 
 in order to take part in a race but the car lok won't consider your fumes right? They just sell 
 the car for money! So when you are rich, why lock the "hi-tier" cars? The race course can sometimes 
 be weird. For example there are some small hills around the course. Normally when you drive over 
 it, it will bounce up your car so you can perform a jump and crash over the other side totalling 
 your car. However, in the game, it is like there is an invisible wall and you are eventually stopped 
 and receive some damage. So the visual effect of the road is good but the 3D model of the course 
 is sometimes somewhat poor. Despite these poor efforts, the physics engine is quite good for this 
 game. The very weird 180 km/h crossing a narrow corner mystery is gone. Good effort to EAs.
  
  Forth, freedoms. I am talking about costumizing you car. You can do a lot of vinyls and decals 
 and you can fine tune you car, etc. But it is so weird that you can't copy the original outlook 
 of the car. For example, your first car. In real case, Ryan Cooper would use a lot with his car 
 to the races and he should not be changing the outlook of it for a while. However in the game, 
 when you want to install new parts, or fine tune your car, you have to start all over and discard 
 the pre-made good-looking vinyl set. Com'on, EA, I really love your design, why force me to discard 
 it? The whole body vinyl is also missing from the game. So we have to do so many steps until we 
 can finally get a car which is more colourful. This is really stupid!
  
  Fifths, brands, cars, etc. The number of cars in the game is kind of too few. Just 55. Some famous 
 cars are missing and it's quite a pity that we can't use it, like Honda NSX and some Ferraris. 
 The advertisements in the game is a little bit too weird. We never find a football game FIFA advertisement 
 in a race course. So why don't you go find some sponsors so you can get some resources and make 
 their brand appear in the game? If it is not possible, why not making more advertisement for the 
 car merchants? It is so weird to see FIFA08 adverting while you're racing.
  
  The most valuable of this game is the foreseeing effect. We can see that the future games in the 
 series may start heading to the realistic area. So it is appreciable to EA that they try to make 
 the game refreshing. However, it is still not yet very mature. So, EA, please don't hesitate to 
 look at the GT series! If a game is good, who cares where the ideas come from? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamer_girl_bina
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 3, 2008 10:52 am PT
Review:  Ok so to me the Need For Speed Series has always been great. I think the thing that shocked me 
 most is that out of no were they totally change the game. What I mean is that most all of the games 
 previous have been racing but not strictly racing you have more control of the game. With Pro streets 
 the free roam ability is taken out and there is no more rival races or cops. Basically if your 
 one who loves racing and want a game thats strictly racing pro streets is for you. If your like 
 me and love the customization and freedom of the other games don't look into getting it its not 
 what your looking for. Oh and for the graphics It has amazing graphics if your card can handle 
 it . I am running it on my laptop that is almost 5 yrs. old and i can run it on low detail fine. 
 To get the full effect you really need to have it at full detail to enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gauravfox
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 1, 2008 10:51 pm PT
Review:  Need for Speed: Prostreet
  First of all, i would like to say that, in order to play this game u need to have the most advanced 
 Graphics Card under the hood of ur system ! this game hogs on a lotta graphics ! The gameplay isnt 
 much to look out for.... and there is no story in it... so, all u gotta do is to finish the game 
 while enjoyin the race ! its all about some guy's Ego to remain the King of the wheels [Street 
 King] . the system specifications is just too much for a game..! u can't possibly play the game in 
 low graphics mode... and the whole concept of the game is a total let down.. i thought 'Carbon' was 
 the worst racing game ever... but this baby beat the charts !!! i cant believe EA came up with something 
 like this ! The game's got a lotta tuning for the cars along with a wider variety, if u are a dude 
 who likes to tune ur car instead of racing it... then u can knock yourself out with this episode 
 of NFS. The only fun part about the game, and which kept me goin was the challenges/realism of 
 the races. the AI are pretty cool, and the damage is good too. thats it.... it all ends there.. my 
 PC could support this game on high graphics... hence i could play it.... i would not recommend this 
 game to anyone, coz theres better games out there,...... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kevinvel
Rating: 3
Date: Jan 30, 2008 10:24 pm PT
Review:  I think that it is difficult to produce a game in almost a year but ProStreet is the worst game 
 in the Need for Speed series. You need to have a good CPU and a good graphic card if you want to 
 play ProStreet smooth on your computer. The sound is good but the announcers are very annoying 
 and their voice is also poor. The carrier is almost boring and you need to dominate each of the 
 races if you want to keep going with the carrier. In ProStreet there is the car damage and it is 
 very good but also there is the note that Nitro is not unlimited as in NFS Most Wanted and in Carbon. 
 Also there is the issue that there aren't any cops chasing you while you are racing and obviously 
 the racing is legal not illegal like the past Need for Speed games. The online game mode is good. 
 I also think that developers wished a different game but gamers wished in ProStreet to see more 
 action and an addictive story, more cops and more adventure in the carrier. It is not worth playing 
 it and it is surely a waste of time playing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vgreco27
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 29, 2008 11:55 am PT
Review:  As a fan of the NFS series (played all of them since the first one, except the NFS 2, which was 
 too arcade for my taste) I must say I was very excited to buy this new release. As usual, Ive 
 downloaded the demo 'just to make sure', but I was pretty sure about the quality of the game based 
 on its previous releases, and my deception wasnt expected at all.
  
  The first thing that bothered me is the slowdowns in gameplay. At certain times, specially in the 
 grip mode, I had a feeling that the flow and speed were changing during the curves, and besides 
 that was very hard to control the traction of the car without loosing speed. This two things gives 
 you the feeling that you re not fully controlling your car. 
  Ive upgraded my ram since that first test (now Ive 3gb) and the the choppyness was significantly 
 improved!. Also bought a gamepad (Logitech RumblePAD) and that makes the controls feel more natural, 
 because the game really feels like a console port, and it was designed to be played with a gamepad. 
 Fo me is the first time in the NFS series that I cant play with a keyboard, and still dont feel 
 like a simulation, like a lot of people said before.
  
  The second drawback was the navigational system and menus. It is very confusing/not intuitive to 
 navigate through the game. Besides that, if you want to play a quick match, very simple thing to 
 ask, right? You cant do it directly. You need to create a race day, and customize what races do 
 you want in that day, and select which cars do you want in which 
  
  race... The "quick race" term means that you want to play it quickly (that's what usually people 
 do first time the play the game, just to feel how the game handles) and that really made me start 
 with the wrong foot. 
  
  It is important to say that the 'free roam' and the 'play by the menu' style pleases to some and 
 some it dont... I really enjoyed the GTA type of freedom, but thats only my opinion. There are 
 plenty of titles in the market who uses menus in order to get to racing and are quite effective, 
 but none of them seems so confusing as this one. 
  
  Id like to bring another question for all racers nowadays: please make all the games with a replay 
 feature. It doesnt hurt anyone and gives the ability to anyone see the car theyre driving. Another 
 important feature: allow people to have quick, customisable races and store their times for comparision. 
 This is the simplest thing ever, and gives more replay value for the gamer. 
  
  -----------------------
  CONCLUSION
  -----------------------
  With that problems, and the 
 fact that navigating through the menus are the worst experience ever, I really left the game aside, 
 it was really a huge frustration. I really didnt played it fully, but this is the point of this 
 review: I thought it was important to tell people about my disappointment and say what made me 
 not play this game! Perhaps developers are just worried in release any title annually, and the 
 quality is a secondary thing. Hope the next release should be a better one. For now, Ill keep 
 playing TDU, which has a lot more value than this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tulo
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 27, 2008 6:34 pm PT
Review:  Where is the city and traffic to ride?
  Why do I have to hear "Ryan Cooper" a thousand times in one race?
  Tweak a car in my garage?
 
  
  A lot of good NFS stuff is missing in ProStreet , but still the graphics and the handling are very 
 great! The series has become better in these two aspects but it lost it's appeal! Maybe the introduction 
 of car damage is one of the few good points that this game brings to the series... 
  
  Underground 2 is the best NFS for me... Just read lots of reviews and you will discover what is 
 obvious: people want a new Underground with the new customization options (autosculpt, packs, single 
 tune, etc) , new rides (prostreet rides are awesome) , "traffic challenges", and city races...!!!
 
  EA should hear the NFS series fans...
  No more boring street races and unstoppable announcers! 
  Bring back the best features that underground 
 and most wanted had! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ab_neo_007
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 23, 2008 12:37 pm PT
Review:  where did the exciting street racing vanish. Dude being chased by the police was damn good fun. 
 I still miss the neons from NFS UG2. If street racing is done on controlled tracks then what is 
 the fun. I cant bang the car beside me on the wall or a nearby civilian vehicle. This is crap and 
 seriously stinks. Though the damage effects are good but still I hate the game. Dominating an event 
 was a bit fun but doing the same race over and over again for cash was damn boring. It made me 
 feel even more hopeless when I bought a car and found out it was good for nothing. There were a 
 lot of beauties which I loved to drive but it was like a cruise on an empty highway. I was never 
 able to feel that I was racing. What about the girls that EA promised to show in the trailers. 
 The announcements during the race are even more boring. My ears bled by listening to the name of 
 Ryan Cooper. Underground 2 was godly compared to Prostreet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vetteman24
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 21, 2008 5:27 pm PT
Review:  9.5 for me on this one, only because it doesn't have more exotic cars in it and no free roam world. 
 I'm a huge fan of the whole series and I'm glad that top speed racing is back. That's what NFS 
 was all about up until Underground. The 4 styles of racing: grip, drift, drag, and speed and the 
 huge variety in the tracks really show off the car tuning. BUT you can still have fun in this game 
 and do very little tuning. OR you can go crazy and tweak your car within an inch of its life. Replayability 
 is very high in single player and the multi makes the replayability limitless. 
  
  This is the most realistic NFS title yet. Physics system is stunning and tuning your ride nets 
 immediate performance after installing upgrades. You can fully tweak the whole car  engine, suspension, 
 drivetrain, brakes, and aerodynamics. Don't forget the appearance stuff like wheels, body kits, 
 spoilers, vinyls, decals, etc. 
  
  Suspension:
  Front Shock Compression Rate
  Rear Shock Compression Rate
  Front Shock Rebound Rate
  Rear Shock Rebound Rate
  Front Spring 
 Rate
  Rear Spring Rate
  Ride Height
  Front Roll Bar Stiffness
  Rear Roll Bar Stiffness
  Front Tire Pressure
  Rear Tire Pressure
  Toe
  Camber
  Caster
 
  Streering response ratio
  
  Engine:
  Cam Timing
  Start Boost
  End Boost
  Nitrous Pressure
  Nitrous Jetting flow Rate
  
  Drivetrain:
  ratio for all gears
  
  
 Some have complained that the cars don't handle and I shared their concern playing the demo. However, 
 when I played the actual game and tuned my first car, I no longer felt that way. The reason the 
 steering seemed heavy was the way the cars were tuned for top speed racing. In order to maintain 
 control at high speed, small adjustments are needed. Damage is impressive when the detail is all 
 the way up  parts flying off (including hood and doors) , glass shattering, body panels mangled 
 in all sorts of interesting ways. Anyone who enjoys driving games will like this game if they don't 
 come in biased against the series. Even then the fun will win you over. The 6.5 Gamespot gave to 
 this game is ridiculously low for how GOOD this game is. Makes you wonder if any of the people 
 reviewing the game just couldn't drive good enough and gave a bad review as a result. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Terdog
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 20, 2008 12:49 pm PT
Review:  I was looking forward to NFS Prostreet, I played the demo, and i was midly impressed, so a few 
 days after launch, went out and bought it. I really wished i had passed.
  
  Graphically, I know they changed style, s but it just dosent look as good as NFS most wanted, not 
 only that, but it chugs on my pc, and I; m not running a crappy pc. When I can play Crysys and Call 
 of Dut 4 with not problems, yes this just slow.
  
  The racing, is ok. The drag events suck, big time. Oh sure left build up some rubber, boring!@ 
 I do like the Time trap races though. The drifting is messed up, a Subaru WRX can drift! Man, where 
 did EA get their info on that.
  
  Multiplayer wise, im really vexed, its slow, crashes alot, and finding ppl is a pain. This is worse 
 than NFS Carbon (barely)
  
  All in all , im giving it a 6.5, its ok, but there; s better NFS Games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kontar
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 19, 2008 4:50 am PT
Review:  It was 2 months later after its release that I touched this game. Now I can safely say that I did 
 not miss anything. With at least 50% of things recycled from the previous Need For Speed series 
 the game is starting to feel like another FIFA/NFL/NHL/NBA saga - same crap every year.
  
  First, we get most of the same cars back. The racing turned from streets to the racetrack. I for 
 one can somehow agree on having Civics and Eclipses in some street racing styled game but when 
 the action comes to the legal races, I want to at least feel the power of real exotics. Mclaren, 
 Ferrari, Bugatti. Where are these brands? Where is the legendary Mclaren F1?
  
  Then we get the annoying announcer and stupid GUI once again designed for Console users. PC users 
 seem to be on the bottom of their list. Everything has to be quickly released. Mass production 
 ftw!
  
  I remember the good days when a new Need For Speed game meant something. The transition from Need 
 For Speed 2 to Need For Speed 3 - Cop mode. Transition to Need For Speed 4 - Career Mode. Transition 
 to Need For Speed 5 - Entirely New Physics + Car Tester Mode + Evolution Mode. From then on we 
 got cheap games and most importantly Cheap music. Nothing beats the tracks from NFS 2-5. Those 
 were specially made rock/techno tracks suited for the game. Those tracks represented Need For Speed 
 for what it was.
  
  Now.. now it is just another game. Nothing else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SalaDin1296248
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 17, 2008 11:30 am PT
Review:  Well This one is very good, I confess.
  Best Graphics of course,
  Sound is really natural realistic, especially the sound of the motors
  
  I liked the BMW M3 
 E90 motor sound very much.
  
  But I still wandering,
  Why is Underground 2 still the best one in gameplay?!!!
  At least in my opinion.
  
  I may 
 be wrong, but I see that the last versions from Mosted Wanted & later have concentrated on the 
 outer shape for the car. I mean even in the motors, I don't know about motors too much, but I haven't 
 heard technically about Stages in motors, even from professionals in Car tuning.
  
  The game lately concentrated how to make the car perfect in performance, handelling & aerodynamics, 
 but ignored the details of car tuning either in motors or in anything else.
  
  Yes, there is some detailing in the body tuning in carbon & more in Prosreet, but, in my opinion 
 Underground 2 was the best in details of tuning of the car, for the date of Release of course. 
 I mean, it was expected for later versions to increase the details not decrease them.
  
  For example, to increase the performance of the motor you need the remove the speed limit program, 
 replace headers of the exaustion system, sport air filters and man other tuning procedures like 
 that to increase the performance, but the idea of stage 1,2,3 of motors, I don't know exactly but 
 I think may be if we replace Stages with models of motors from different companies in tuning or 
 the famous car designers (for M3 there are E36, E46, the last E90) , something like that.
  
  I don't know if I could get it to your minds or not, but see the proformance tuning of the car 
 in Underground 2 & any other one. You will see many details in Underground2 than the last series.
 
  
  On the other hand, I don't agree with the idea of canceling the free roam or exploration mode. 
 It was a great gameplay to test your car freely not in a race. Get your experience on the roads 
 either in manual or automatic transmission, drag, drift, speed challenge, challenging the racers 
 in the street was amazing, but OK no problem, we are now a professional racers who race in showdowns.
 
  
  I hope the developers of the game read this & return the free roam to the game & give more attention 
 to the details of tuning. I think it does not only make the tuning more interesting, but it really 
 increase the knowledge in Car Tuning even for the people who like to tune their real cars. They 
 will even know when they try to increase their skills in driving their cars, not to kill somebody 
 or even themselves.
  
  There are much information than ABS, TSC, or EBD.
  I heard that Peugeot 407 has about 5 systems for the Braking System only (ABS, EBD, EBA, ESP, ASR) .
 
  We need to know the new systems in, for example My love BMW M3 E90.
  
  At last, I confess, Prostreet is really a Very good addtition fo Need for Speed series, but just 
 needed some TUNING...
  
  Thank you very much for reading this...
  
  Best Regards...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ultimatesamuri
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 16, 2008 9:37 pm PT
Review:  you expect companies to make grat games that we pay for, and we expecct it to be fun. ea messed 
 up big time with pro street. taking out the cops and the free roam, those were thw two best things 
 there were. maybe next game will be better. but i dont think i am going to buy their nfs games, 
 i am renting them form now on. dont waste your money. i would give the game a 0.3 for the car selection, 
 but thats it. it gets too repetitive and the music is the same . they need to remake this with 
 the gamers in mind. if you liked the idea of free roma and the cops chasing you, then stick with 
 most wanted or carbon (another dud) . i will give ea a slap on the back for revamping the autosculpt 
 system to make it affect the car and the way it can handle instead of being show. now if they remember 
 this they will incorporate all of the good stuff and leave out the bad in the next nfs 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Archanid
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 15, 2008 10:09 pm PT
Review:  No, dude, seriously, it makes no difference if it's called Gran Turismo Prostreet, GTR Prostreet, 
 Forza Prostreet or Colin McRae's Prostreet, because there's nothing that makes it stand out in 
 the crowd. All of the great elements from games like Need for Speed Most Wanted seem long forgotten. 
 Strip off the police, the free roaming around a city, the strong presentation and some decent gameplay 
 and there you have it: Prostreet. I mean, yeah, it looks decent and the gameplay will do, but there's 
 nothing special about it! And I really start to feel this was a waste of those 50.-, which is, 
 by the way, almost $85.-. So, now you'll probably think: Okay, so it's not the best in series, 
 but it'll do right? Well NO!
  
  As you start as some rookie who thinks he's got some skills you work yourself up in the world of 
 racing. This element of game is actually nicely done, because you really feel like you're rolling 
 into the professional racing world. As the end of the game nears, and you have finished all of 
 the "Super Promotion" (WTH?) racedays, you have to challenge these different Kings, who all are 
 specialised in one aspect of the game. There's the Speed King, Drift King, Drag King and Grip King. 
 But don't expect anything special or very difficult like the Black List members from NfS: MW, because 
 this guys are just WAY too easy. You have to complete like 3 racedays or so before you can challenge 
 a King. And these racedays are actually more difficult than the King himself, and that is just 
 wrong. So, when you have defeated all of these suckers, and haven't died of boredom yet, you can 
 defeat the "Showdown King", or at least try. You see, this guy still has SOME racing skills. And 
 when you've done that you're done and you can play it all over again. It really feels like a letdown, 
 which gives you no excitement in racing whatsoever, thanks to the retarded presentation.
  
  Conclusion: Wait for a rental, or check the bargain bin. It's really not worth your while and your 
 fifty bucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ballroomwest
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 12, 2008 10:15 am PT
Review:  I was suspicious about this title way back in Feb/March of last year when I first heard the subtitle 
 :ProStreet: ........ I thought for a second.... hang-on that just doesn't sound right... sounds too 
 'racy'. But after seeing various screenshots and previews throughout its development I thought 
 I wouldn't prejudge it to much until I played it.
  
  But I knew from early on that not having Cops and a freeroaming atmospheric city would be a huge 
 loss and I was wondering how they were gonna make up for this.
  
  Well, the short answer is that they didn't. This game has NO atmosphere, no street feel, no feeling 
 of danger or excitment. It's an out n out disaster. I wouldn't give a damn if it was a stand-alone-game 
 or a new game from a new developer................. but this is NEED FOR SPEED we're talking about!
 
  
  For me Underground 1 and 2, we're the best for atmosphere/music, and great city layout. MostWanted 
 and Carbon added excitment due to the cops and ultra high speed chases, aswell as more indepth 
 storylines.
  
  I couldnt play this game longer than half an hour. I couldn't (or didnt have enough incentive) 
 to get further than the second race. So I havent experienced drag, or any other modes or customization...... and 
 I really don't care, I've seen enough after half hour, end of conversation. End of game.
  This game makes "Big Rigs All Over The Road Racing" look like Half-Life.
  BORING BORING BORING 
 BORING BORING.
  
  EA have messed up bigtime. They'd better listen to the FANS and the incredible amount of negative 
 reviews this disaster of a game has received
  and get the next one RIGHT. As a way of apology, the next game should be developed with mostly 
 suggestions/ideas from fans requesting what the game should be like. Prostreet was a big mistake 
 that i think we should just pretend doesn't exist as part of the franchise we love, and pray the 
 next one not only returns to form, but excels on all fronts.
  
  P. S. About the annoying as hell announcer! Stop trying to be so 'street' and 'hip'............ the 
 game isn't even in the street, so it's annoying, out of place and pointless!!! Bring back Rachel 
 or other NFS girls, not this annoying TTWWAATT!! Here's looking forward to next November! EA - 
 LISTEN TO THE FANS OK? .... IF NOT... THIS FRANCHISE IS HISTORY!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agordplayer
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 11, 2008 2:12 pm PT
Review:  Petty good game. Could be better. NFS prostreet isnt the best NFS game ive played. This game is 
 very hard. Controls are too sensative. But it has good graphics. NFS Most wanted was the best NFS 
 Game I played. 8.5 stars out of 10. Petty good game. Could be better. NFS prostreet isnt the best 
 NFS game ive played. This game is very hard. Controls are too sensative. But it has good graphics. 
 NFS Most wanted was the best NFS Game I played. 8.5 stars out of 10. Petty good game. Could be 
 better. NFS prostreet isnt the best NFS game ive played. This game is very hard. Controls are too 
 sensative. But it has good graphics. NFS Most wanted was the best NFS Game I played. 8.5 stars 
 out of 10. Petty good game. Could be better. NFS prostreet isnt the best NFS game ive played. This 
 game is very hard. Controls are too sensative. But it has good graphics. NFS Most wanted was the 
 best NFS Game I played. 8.5 stars out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dany_gamer_kid
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 8, 2008 11:51 am PT
Review:  This should be the best racing game? No, it's not, because of lack of originality that made Most 
 Wanted a great game. EA ruined everything, they tried to replicate something that seems realistic 
 and fun. It is ,but the feeling of it is like a cheap copy from other realistic games. 
  The graphics are nice, i appreciate them. They did a great job with the smoke. Too bad it's the 
 only new part that impressed me.
  The sound is sometimes anoying, especially when my speakers blow up.
  Music? These soundtracks 
 are perfect, i listen all the time, and it's just right with ForzaM2 too.
  Driving? damn, i wish on the xbox 360 it's better. I mean, c'mon man, it's a simulator or classic 
 style arcade??? This sucks, at least drifting is cool but its just too easy, i give 1 finger to get 
 huge score in a single drift event, with the controller from xbox... at least its funny when my lambo 
 flyies at 300 km/h during the speed challanges. And don't try to drift in the wrong place with 
 the wrong car... you'll mess it up, damage everywhere on the bodykit, even 'total' it.
  Don't buy it, try the DEMO FIRST. lucky me i didn't 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blacksaibot
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jan 7, 2008 8:18 pm PT
Review:  I could not play this game for more than a few hours without being totally disgusted. I've never 
 lost my patients so quickly with any game. EA did not take enough time into this game. I don't 
 know what the hell they were thinking when they screwed up drag racing. The maps are boring, it 
 doesn't even make it worth unlocking the faster cars in such terrible maps.
  
  NFS needs to go back to wide open tracks like Hot Pursuit 2. This game does not deserve any more 
 of my time typing a review! I had more fun playing the first Midnight Club game. You're better 
 off downloading the game and testing it out before wasting your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dr_Lucifer
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 7, 2008 3:18 am PT
Review:  the game looks good, and have a variety of cars and visual upgrades and tweaks, besides they finally 
 made more than 24 songs! anywayz, the game looks like it's gonna be good, but it's simply not!
 
  first thing that got on my nerves, was the annoncer's annoying voice!! i was like man, when will 
 he shut the heck up, and he don't!
  but back to the driving experiance, it is a bit improved (compared to carbon)
  but still ain't 
 fun.
  so, the fun factor is very low, and that what just ruins it, ea games should consider firing some 
 people, before it loses the franchise! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neomat
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jan 5, 2008 9:22 pm PT
Review:  why they don't continue with some histories like MOST WANTED, or CARBON, maybe they try to do something 
 different but it don't worked.... I dont have any idea of the producers of this game.... 
  I think EA try to do the best for this game, with the damage improve and with the custom tuning 
 something good in the right aspect but dont forget it that they lose the action quiting the cops 
 n without city streets the bad aspect for me.
  other aspect we have is the accidents yeah... all right great thing, ahhh i froget it... the drags 
 r amazin really improved.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arsefacex
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 5, 2008 9:06 pm PT
Review:  I'll try to keep this simple:
  
  I really don't care for stories in racing games. I'm just here to race, not to be sat down to listen 
 to a story. The story truly matters to me in games like Metal Gear Sold, but not in NFS. Let's 
 move on...
  
  As I stated before, it's a bit tough to like at first. The steering and breaking feel much different 
 from it's predecessors, but I think it's gone for a more realistic tone. In games like NFS: Most 
 Wanted and NFS: Carbon I didn't care if I constantly rubbed against the walls and slammed into 
 opponents. Now, I'm more responsible and sensible. I think this game has actually improved my ability 
 with driving games. I get easily bored with sim-racing like Gran Turismo and yearn for something 
 a bit more realistic when I play Burnout. I think ProStreet is at this perfect balance between 
 realistic and arcade racing, in which I think is perfect, IMHO. The AI isn't bad, and the tracks 
 are tolerable. I don't mind the new theme, because sometimes I get sick of those cop chases in 
 Most Wanted. All in all, it was a solid game, which gave me hours of fun.
  
  Visually, it's impressive. I especially love the desert scenery. It's amazing, because it reminds 
 me of the long and lonely, two-lane roads to California. The roads look pretty realistic, with 
 visible wear and tear. The cars look amazing as well, especially with all the different types of 
 paint jobs. Just make sure you have a juicy videocard or else you'll have to worry about jaggies, 
 which is no fun.
  
  Just give the game a chance. I grew to love it, because at first I didn't like it at all! But, 
 I new I couldn't just give up! The more I drove, the better I got, and the more fun it all was. 
 In the end, I'm glad I played ProStreet. Happy gaming to all! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: athanask
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 4, 2008 11:34 am PT
Review:  Apart from some performance issues the game is plain fun. I can't understand there are so many 
 bad user reviews. I think EA took a great risk reforming the game so much. People don't seem to 
 like great changes. What? No police? No gangs? No storyline? Well I say it was about time to change 
 all that and introduce a new game play (that will certainly improve in future versions) . Damage 
 is nice and quite realistic (can improve) but performance of cars is not affected (or is not noticeable) . 
 Physics are improved cars can be tweaked even more from previous series. Sound is adequate apart 
 from the speaker guy that is annoying. It is worth playing and is under estimated. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: piluso1
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 12, 2008 7:17 am PT
Review:  I thought this game was gonna be better than Carbon and its predecessors, but I was totally wrong. 
 Need for Speed ProStreet is the worst racing game I've ever played in my life. It has an utter 
 performance (unless you lower the graphics options to off) , a horrible gameplay, totally annoying 
 advertisements in the middle of a race. It is a total waste of money and time. It is a waste of 
 time even installing it!!!
  When I installed it, I was impatient to see how amazing was going to be the next Need for Speed. 
 Once installed, I ran the game. The first disappointing characteristic of the game was the menu: 
 too simple, no hard work in it, a menu that an amateur could design in PhotoShop. Secondly, the 
 gameplay and the graphics: horrible, disastrous, disappointing, ugly, not even one thing that would 
 make this game worth.
  Truthfully, the worst game EA Games has ever launched... Really disappointing, disastrous and worthless. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thatmy
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 30, 2007 2:04 am PT
Review:  The Good Side
  -The Graphic outlook is good n damages features cool!
  -A great deal of energy pissing us off with their new interface and theme work of the game.
  
 
  The Bad Side - 
  -Very Boring YET Expensive to BUY! My Buyprice is $59.90/=
  -Short Distances.
  -No FREE Roaming to drive difference type of cars.
  -Funny feeling when 
 racing.
  -Poor Sound
  -Poor Sound Tracks
  -Announcer, STFU! My ears are bleeding........
  -Performing issue when all features are turn 
 on.
  -Iegal or illegal - Wake up your bloody mind! If legal, then why street gang racing? iMAO! if illegal, 
 again why no cops and then why can race iegal race? LOL!
  -Horrible Game structures and themes!
  -AI work like a dog's brain. lol! - I mean LAME! -Slow 
 loading of game.
  -Where is my Girlfriend? =]
  
  Hope NFS next edition will be better! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CaptainPervert
Rating: 3.5
Date: Dec 28, 2007 5:28 am PT
Review:  For each game in the NFS series, I get my hopes up that it will be anywhere as good and entertaining 
 als Porsche Unleashed (2000) , but it always leads to disappointments. "Porsche" had a near-perfect 
 balance between arcade racing and realism, but the series soon departed into a poor "Fast & Furious" 
 franchise which was all about pimping Japanese cars: not my cup of tea. It seems the series has 
 finally let go of the underground streetracing theme, possibly because the streetracing hype is 
 slowly fading away as well. So where to go from here? 
  
  The look and feel of the game is even worse than a Tony Hawk game. "Urban" skateboarding-style 
 logos are abundant, as are superfast, flashy edited cutscenes and menus (I bet even MTV would find 
 it too irritating) . Then there is this horrible announcer and some other (clearly white) guy in 
 the menus who adresses me as "dog" and "homie" as if he were from South Central. It all sounds 
 so horribly fake. When the game is loading, there are hints pointing out that you should't hit 
 the tires in the corners, and that there are actually signs pointing where you should go. How dumb 
 do they think I am? This is insultung.
  
  As for the game itself: it doesn't look very spectacular (even on high settings) yet it manages 
 to run horribly on my PC, which is pretty fast (8800 GTS) . The racing is dull, and the game modes 
 are boring. The controls are clearly aimed at a gamepad, which makes this game a poor port of an 
 even poorer game which misses the mark in every way. After 30 minutes of testing, I didn't even 
 bother to go through the menus to exit it properly: I pressed CTRL+ALT+DEL and terminated nfs. exe.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: franekKimo
Rating: 3
Date: Dec 27, 2007 7:44 am PT
Review:  I'm old. I was plaing NFS from the very beginning. NFS 4 was my first dream and I was not dissapointed. 
 Then NFS Porsche - big WOW. That was great. NFS Underground was only very good. NFS Most Wanted 
 - well, like Porsche it was, and still is, perfect. Carbon is just fine but still interesting. 
 
  
  NFS ProStreet - I was expecting something great and I'm absolutely dissapointed. Legal races? Where 
 are the cops? Where is the essence of NFS? Where is some traffic on the road? Shortcuts? What is 
 the difference between other race games now?
  
  This game is borring now. This game looks good but i don't like it - why? Look at NFS MW - there 
 is some soul, some story maybe (definetely in NFS Porsche) . I could upgrade my car - fine. I could 
 sell it, paint it, buy new one - fine. But I'm spending more time doing this than racing. Really. 
 Those races are boring. It's like TOCA now or another title like TOCA. It's not exiting now. Not 
 at all. 
  
  Menu is terrible. Warming your tires before race is stupid (just takes more time nothing else, 
 and it's boring as hell) . Tracs are boring, without any traffic and police it's no longer NFS series. 
 And that's my point. THEY should give this game another name and WE should wait for another NFS, 
 because this one don't deserve this name.
  
  OK - this game is still quite good. But not as NFS. 
  I think EA is trying to be to much politically 
 correct now. Hey - it's just a game. And it's just a fun for us players, so don't take it from 
 us. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: imortal986201
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 22, 2007 4:22 pm PT
Review:  This game brought me back to the days of NFS: Porsche Unleashed. Unfortunately, NFS: Porsche Unleashed 
 was far better than this game across the board.
  
  Pros: In this game you can damage your car and it does make a slight difference to your ability 
 to drive. Drag type events were fun and well done. Drifting is also fun and well done, once you 
 get the hang of it. I found that the Speed Challenges were also fun though sometime a bit tough. 
 The selection of cars was broad, but did leave a bit to be desired. Probably the best aspect of 
 this game was the customization of the cars (similar to NFS: Most Wanted) .
  
  Cons: Performance issues, if your not running a decent computer be prepared to hack off most of 
 the better eye-candy. Grip races did not seem very exciting, they were just to generic in my opinion. 
 The storyline was boring and not innovative. No police chases and free-roam. The cinematics had 
 good graphics, but poor characterization. I would have liked a larger selection of cars.
  
  My final judgment: Like all Need for Speed games this game is sound and playable. I felt this game 
 lacked most of the former creativity of other members of the NFS series. Not many games can measure 
 up to NFS: Porsche Unleashed and NFS: Most Wanted, and this once surely missed its target. This 
 game is worth playing through, but there are plenty of much better games out there.
  
  If you liked this game or want a quality racing game, try these:
  Need for Speed: Most Wanted 
 and Porsche Unleashed
  Test Drive Unlimited
  Forza 1 or 2
  Dirt (this one is a bit different)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: undulation
Rating: 1.5
Date: Dec 22, 2007 6:11 am PT
Review:  Need for speed pro street at first looks like another Need for speed game, fun, exciting, and a 
 nice storyline.
  
  Need for speed pro street doesnt have any of this. Its basicly race, race and race. Its nothing 
 like the previous series, and it feels downgraded. 
  
  Graphic wise this game is a huge resource hog, 10 fps if u play on anything that isn't state of 
 the art. I find this odd seeing how games such as Call of duty which have better graphics, can 
 run smoothly on this pc.
  
  The racing itself is boring and repetitive, sure its a big part of a racing game, but there isn't 
 much variation in the racing tracks and it feels more like work rather than fun.
  
  There is little to no story in this game which is a huge disappointment because the last few games 
 had a nice story in it which was great to experience.
  
  I have nothing positive to say about this game, to sum up: No story, graphics are a huge hog and 
 aren't all that, racing feels like work rather than fun.
  
  I hope the game will return to its roots and make another game set in the world of illegal street 
 racing with a story, rather than this garbage.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: VercettiTommyy
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 20, 2007 6:05 am PT
Review:  After Need For Speed Porche Unleashed, which is still one of the best auto sims made, the NFS series 
 turned to simplity, to arcade. I enjoyed most of the games, but last year's Carbon was so poor that 
 the producers realised that it's time to get back to serious things. So Need for Speed ProStreet 
 was born...
  First thing is that the graphics are simply amazing, almost as good as in Crysis,& much better than 
 in all the other games. So good, colourful textures ,a great variety of environmental objects on 
 the tracks & superb effect. The GS reviewer must be mad, because the game runs greatly on poorer 
 computers.
  The sound is very good indeed. The music ain't that bright (Avenged Sevenfold has the best track) , but 
 at least it's better than the horseshyte from Carbon, where everything was poor, except the oriental 
 music in canyons. The announcers are kindda repetitive & will annoy you, but that's the games' biggest 
 sin.
  Well no racing on city streets anymore (thank God) , no cops; it all gets legal. You race on special 
 tracks, with public, girls, a lot of advertising. They're called racing days. You start with Battle 
 Machine (focused on grip & drag races) , only to go trough a lot more, including Rogue Speed (goths-my 
 favorites) , japanese tuners, germans, etc. Now, each race day contains races; winning them, or taking 
 an other position (you don't need to be first in every race, as you needed in previous NFS arcade 
 games) brings you points & money. With money you can buy new cars, tune your own & repair them when 
 necessary. With points you can win the race day (& you can select a bonus marker, you know them from 
 Most Wanted & Carbon) , or get more & dominate the day, so you get another marker. Yes, you have very 
 cool & realistic damage, you can total your car; you must repair it with money or with repair markers. There 
 are grip races (circuit) , drag, drift, time attack (time trial) , sector shootout (speed checkpoints) , wheelie 
 challenge (a kind of drag where you have to raise your car on the backward wheels as much as you 
 can) . The drags are great, you have to heat your tires, launch & shift,& the drifts are finally greatly 
 realised, much better than the bullshyte in Carbon, where you couldn't do anything good at drifts.& 
 about tuning, it's much more complex,& Autosculp again.
  What I don't like is how the two girls appear: not real, but virtual: they give starts, stay near the 
 competitor's cars. Even though they are greatly drawn & realised, they're not real.
  Even though many arcadists won't like the game, I do, I congratulate EA on a job well done, do something 
 similar next year,& have this: Need for Speed ProStreet is the best racing game ever made!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Matt_30
Rating: 2.5
Date: Dec 20, 2007 4:34 am PT
Review:  Do the developers of this game understand physics? Do the developers of this game understand physics? Do 
 the developers of this game understand physics? Do the developers of this game understand physics? Do 
 the developers of this game understand physics? Do the developers of this game understand physics? Do 
 the developers of this game understand physics? Do the developers of this game understand physics? Do 
 the developers of this game understand physics? Do the developers of this game understand physics? Do 
 the developers of this game understand physics? Do the developers of this game understand physics? Do 
 the developers of this game understand physics? Do the developers of this game understand physics? Do 
 the developers of this game understand physics? Do the developers of this game understand physics? 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bahasad
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 18, 2007 9:02 am PT
Review:  Pros:
  -Improved physics  the cars definitely have some weight, take to corners more realistically. You 
 can feel the traction control kicking in when you do a risky maneuver. Cars have variety.
  -Decent line up of cars, everything from the unreleased new Lancer Evolution to the old Plymouth 
 Hemi Cuda.
  -Awesome dust trails, and spectacular crashes. Try doing a high speed challenge in a Nissan Silvia 
 on the Nevada Racewayspectacular
  -Better tracks
  
  Cons:
  -The whole raceday ideaI don't like the awkward fact that you have to set up a raceday with various 
 events. It lacks the free nature of the previous NFS games, especially games like NFS Most Wanted 
 or NFS Underground 2
  -Graphics  although the overall graphics are good, the game feels grainy.
  -TOO much advertising. 
 I mean when you get ads for Progressive Insurance in a game, you know they went overboard. -Lacks 
 the free nature of previous NFS games.
  -No police chases. Remember the adrenaline pumping, 2 million bounty, Rhino filled, C6 filled police 
 chases of NFS Most Wantedwell they aren't here for sure. -The annoying burning rubber mini game 
 before EVERY single drag race. -Lack of refillable nitrous oxide
  -Not enough carsat least compared to games like Forza 2 and Gran Turismo, which I think EA is 
 trying to target.
  
  Overall:
  I think NFS has tried to lose the arcadey feel of the previous NFS games, and by doing that it 
 has fallen short of expectations. Worth a rental for NFS fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: perturabo001
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 13, 2007 4:59 am PT
Review:  Having followed the media hype for this game I thought it would be a decent game. But to be honest 
 this game is lacking on many points and can get very annoying. You could say that it takes some 
 time to get use to, but after having spent a lot of time with the game.... it doesn't. 
  
  For example it would have been better if they didn't punt in a "story mode". You have to agree 
 with me that the way they implemented the story is just not right. Same goes for the everlasting 
 voice from the announcers, it gets on your nerves after a while.
  
  About the races, those speed challenges, it is like you have no control over the car. There is 
 no realism in it, even the AI of the opponents is questionable. It's like they are trying to bury 
 you with there 100.000 dollar cars. Acts like braking in a straight line are not uncommon. Also 
 the warm up game you have to play with drag races, what were they thinking.
  
  But it isn't all bad. I like the way how the interface works. And the way drifting now takes place 
 is also improved from the last games.
  
  In retrospect the game isn't hard to play, but it can be very annoying. For me the fact that this 
 game can be very annoying makes me wonder how the next NFS game is going to turn out. In the ratings 
 of the last games it has shown a declining line. I really hope the next one is going to be better, 
 and can turn around this trend the series has taken.
  
  Even so, if you're going to play the game, have fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mister_JJ
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 12, 2007 6:51 pm PT
Review:  this is far the worst NFS in NFS ("tunning") series. I didn`t thought that EA would be disappoint 
 me so much. I was especting this game for a VERY VERY long time... i got... almoust nothing.
  At first I was impressed with the graphics at the very beggining. I`ve got ATI x1950 pro, 1gb ram, 
 3000+ processor... so what, on grip class races, with 10 cars i had to turn of the world graphics 
 to OFF to play smooth. Tunnig is VERY short on parts. That`s not very "EA". And i agree with others 
 that the game is full with ADVERTISING too collorfull... buuut i think i could handle that. The 
 KINGS in the races are TRUE KINGS especially GRIP and SPEED challenge kings, i made so many tunning 
 changes... i think THEY ARE too (censored) HARD. I wrecked my car 100 times, btw DRAG and DRIFT 
 kings were too easy... car crash is almous as the announced in those traillers. i was tryin so hard 
 to rip my front (or any other) wheel, but no results.
  
  : ( ( ( ( ( ( (
  
  how ever.. i don`t think i am goin to install it again 
  
  sorry for my english ;o) i rusted 
 lil bit 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lime-Light
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 12, 2007 9:50 am PT
Review:  Judging by the GS review by Aaron Thomas, he does not like racing games.
  
  Aaron complains that the tracks are repetitive because they are essentially all reworked versions 
 of the same core courses. This is pretty much how NFS tracks and really most other racing games 
 have worked for the last 10 years, so it's not a valid complaint. In fact, this game has probably 
 a hundred more track variations than say, FORZA 2, which the reviewer is evidently comparing this 
 game to. Aaron also complains that you spend much of the game using slow cars. When I played career, 
 by my 6th race day I had 400 horsepower BMW M coupe. No slouch, and certainly not a "pedestrian" 
 vehicle with an over 60k price tag. I'm about half-way through and have a 850hp Ford GT, i'd almost 
 say the game gives you the good stuff too soon. The much-loved Gran Turismo series has players 
 spending hours racing 15-100 horsepower vehicles, the racing in NFS: ProStreet is certainly more 
 exciting than that.
  
  The reviewer complains that the game takes too long to get to the conclusion with King Ryo. Apparently 
 this game has TOO MUCH content? Seems Aaron hasn't ever played Gran Tourismo 3, in which racing 
 every race would take a player upwards of three months.
  
  The car tuning is finally back! I loved UG2 where you could fine-tune the cars then test them out. 
 While it doesnt make a really big change to your cars, it is noticable, and I like that it's in 
 there. The car customization is much better than Carbon, which was the worst in the series. Generally 
 all the body kits are horribly ugly and generic to each car. I'd like to see some real-world kits 
 that people actually put on cars, like JDM bumpers and flush headlights on RX7's, or some Ruf body 
 kits for the Porsches.
  
  My biggest complaint with the game is it's physics model, which is really lacking for game that 
 bills itself as a more serious professional-level racing game. It's no where near as realistic 
 as the Forza or GT series, particularly the stupid wheelie competitions.
  
  Another problem with the game is how easy it is. With the cars and upgrades available, and the 
 abundant cash (if you dominate most races) there's really no reason why you wont win every race 
 on the first try, there's just very little completition from the ai, so I find myself trying to 
 better my own scores.
  
  Not having police is unfortunate, but I really don't think it detracts that much from the game, 
 it's going in a different direction, and with some more cars and better physics this game could 
 complete with the likes of Forza or at least PGR. But those games are not on PC, so as far as next-gen 
 PC racing games go, this is the best there is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: y_los_alien
Rating: 2.5
Date: Dec 16, 2007 5:07 pm PT
Review:  So, what makes the NFS series interesting? The police chases, the \ underground\ aspect of the 
 game, the traffic, the customization of the cars.
  
  With NFS PS, you can forget about all that since they have decided to take it into legal racing. 
 Of course there still is a \ villain\ (he didn\'t need to be such a crying **** and customization 
 of the cars. But let me go deeper into the latter. It doesn\'t look as good as it used to and now 
 placing a racing stripe vinyl from the front of the car to the back is a pain in the ass. Besides, 
 if you add more than 1 layer of vinyls, the handling (rotation, scaling, motion, etc) of such vinyl 
 will produce humongous load times.
  
  But hey, the graphics part must have evolved for sure, right? WRONG! The cars look the same they 
 used to, and the surrounding environment during the races looks really simple. The only thing they\'ve 
 included here is the damage produced to the car and the fact that you can total your car. Anyway, 
 once you have installed a bodykit to your car, the damage seems to go away. But that\'s not it 
 as far as graphics are concerned, there is another serious flaw when it comes to textures which 
 I still can\'t believe they didn\'t care enough to solve. Whenever you\'re at a warm-up session 
 previous to a 1/4 or 1/2 mile drag, if you have a rear-wheel-drive car you can tell that in the 
 inside of the opposing rear tyre where there should be a brake disk, there is a patch of the texture 
 they use for the tyre\'s face. Only one word could describe it, crappy! However, it should be mentioned 
 that they did include something new as far as graphics are concerned, and that is; more advertising 
 than ever. Come on, how many times do I have to see the Energizer Lithium ad during the game.
 
  
  Enough of graphics anyway... what about sound? The music sounds iterative since it isn\'t as varied 
 it used to be, and, during the events there comes a time when you feel like kicking the crap out 
 of the host so that he will shut up. Another thing is that in some cutscenes the audio is not perfectly 
 synchronized to the animation, and the intonation the speakers have sounds contrived. Besides, 
 they do repeat cutscenes (today\'s keyword is: CHEAPER!) .
  
  So, my verdict is 2.5 and both thumbs down. If you want to experience a NFS game, this is not it... 
 try NFS Most Wanted, Carbon, Underground 2... whichever you prefer. If you want to race GT style, 
 this is not your game either. Just get Gran Turismo 4... NFS doesn\'t stand a chance. Now, if you\'re 
 into bondage, S&amp; M and flushing your money down the toilet; then this IS your game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tun3rdude
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 11, 2007 8:10 pm PT
Review:  Even though most people believe EA messed up by changing the need for speed series to legal racing 
 it still has some great features that make it a good game to rent, borrow, or wait until the price 
 drops. 
  
  BAD:
  The Damage on the cars could be a little better (only the body panels get damage not the actual 
 frame) They say your Main characters name (Ryan Cooper) too much! (gets very annoying) 
  Some people might think during actual gameplay slow speeds (around 80-100) look too fast. Some 
 of the events take quite a few tries (due to sudden difficulty changes later in the game)
  There are none of the Police. ( Without a cop on your tail it makes you slack off and get bored 
 quicker) and the game just has kind of a been here done that feeling.
  
  GOOD: 
  The game has a wide variety of cars. the game looks great. It Sometimes get addicting when you 
 are trying to save up enough money to buy that car you always wanted. (Pagan i Zonda, Lamborghini, 
 etc..) The physics have a slightly arcade feel to them but they still just feel great. The drifting 
 mode is very easy now. Added features to the drag racing mode make it more realistic and really 
 make you want to beat your times/friends. The online is very good if you have Xbox Live.
  
  Overall I believe Ea was just experimenting with the consumers to find out what type of game the 
 people are looking for. I think Pro street has some great features that makes it a good rental.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lorddarthvik
Rating: 3
Date: Dec 10, 2007 12:39 pm PT
Review:  Hail ProStreet, the new shame of a ricer simulator!
  
  Just like every NFS since Underground, this new installment of the series is about tuning and racing 
 mostly ordinary street cars. Street, its in the name. Shame there is NO STREET RACING! Every single 
 single race takes place on closed tracks or roads, and theres absolutely no free roaming. Now, 
 this may be the worst part for some of us, but the list of "why not to buy this game" just begins 
 here.
  
  The most important part of all nfs games are the cars, so lets see what we get: The cars list is 
 90% the same as before, at least what is left of it. There are just a few new absolutely uninteresting 
 cars, like the Ford Focus. Most of the exotics have been taken away, like the Aston Martin. So, 
 for those who play this game for the cars, you should skip this one, and stick to MW or Carbon. 
 Also those who liked the old visual tuning system should keep away, because every car has the same 
 full body kit choices, which consist of 4 pre-modeled kits and the autosculpt feature. Bot the 
 pre-made kits and the stock body has autosculpt, but adjusting the sliders won't create any wonderful 
 pieces of art, it will only change the size of the inlets on the bumpers. So, no more really costume 
 body kits. Applying stickers got even worse as there are no pre-made decal sets. The New feature 
 of the body styling is that now Mirroring can be turned on , so if you have a sticker on one side, 
 it will be mirrored to the other. Painting the body and rims remains the same as before. This is 
 the only positive thing about it really.
  
  Performance tuning is just as important as visual tuning, and this is something that ProStreet 
 does just a little bit better then Carbon did. Upgrading anything in older nfs games was pointless 
 as the race only got harder, because the AI always matched the players performance. The Ai also 
 used the "brilliant aggressive realistic" method of cheating, the catch up system, which got bugged 
 70% of the time making the race unnecessarily hard or impossible to win. Now this is Over! No More 
 Catch-up System! This makes tuning the cars worth it! Getting a bigger engine, more nitro, better 
 transmission really makes a difference now.
  The bad thing is, the "physics engine" still doesn't apply to the AI cars, they only make scripted 
 mistakes, and are totally dumb. Also, useing the Tune menu to adjust the properties of the tuner 
 parts, like how hard the suspension should be and such, is very annoying. There is no graphical 
 or any other feedback of what is happening to the car. You have to go to a race to try your new 
 setup. Some of the more advanced setup options, like the toe-in, caster, camber are working in 
 reverse of what seems logical. This ma cause lots of frustration for those who try to take advantage 
 of all features included in the tuning section.
  
  The graphics are far worse then should be, Most Wanted had much better graphics. The screenshots 
 were showing movie like quality graphics. Well, the movies are there as cutscenes, the quality 
 is the same as on screenshots, but the actual ingame graphics are a joke. The only improvement 
 is the crash model, that deserves a thumbs up! The detection of how severe the crash should be 
 is pretty random, sometimes even a small hit crashes off the bumpers and hood, sometimes a hit 
 at 160khm only makes a little scratch on the bumper. Otherwise its a cool "new" feature. Maybe 
 the only cool thing about the whole game. The reflection on the pants are realistic at last, but 
 the now EA did a crazy job on the smoke effects. I know how does a tire smoke, I've been to enough 
 on track races and street races to never forget the smell and the view. Well, the tire-smoke in 
 prostreet are as thick as an oil refinery burning! It makes drifting hard, because you can't see 
 your car from the smoke...
  
  Engine sounds were amazing in Most Wanted, and since that no other NFS can even come close to that. 
 The tire screech sounds are okay, but the engine sounds are flat, low quality, and have nothing 
 to do with the real cars' sound. Give us the roaring sounds of MW back!
  The music track is something that absolutely depends on a personal taste. I prefer listening to 
 older nfs soundtracks rather then the tracks of prostreet, but otherwise music is in the game as 
 always.
  
  Game modes are the usual circuit track race, drag, drift, and point to point called, speed challenge. 
 The only new addition is in the drag race, now its proper one on one race, on a closed straight 
 track. There is a mini game before every drag, to warm up the tires. All in all, the race modes 
 are okay, but boring after 10 or so runs. 
  
  All in all, ProStreet doesn't worth a single buck, because its less in every respect than any other 
 recent NFS game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aman_chaos001
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 10, 2007 2:43 am PT
Review:  The worst racing game ever 2 be developed..... guys dont waste ur money on this peace of trash...... pure 
 trash.... that announcer is obnoxious..... He's a headache. N the races r soooo boring. A person wud 
 prefer a sleep better than playing this game's races. If I get a chance I wud kill the persons who 
 created the concept of this game. The game is a piece of trash. That's all I can say. Peep on this 
 game, put it in ur flush, throw it in a sewer, Scratch its dvd, play disc throw with it, but dont play 
 the game............... Its sooo bad that's all.... The developers are junk tooo coz they created 
 such bad game. if u want a GT racing play Gran Turismo that's a game 2 be played.... A game worthy 
 of respect. This game is SHIT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neonsuperstar
Rating: 1.5
Date: Dec 9, 2007 11:18 pm PT
Review:  I'll keep this short and sweet, because i'm not going to force you to read a clone of the official 
 review.
  
  The good:
  Graphics are convincing.
  Car customization is turning into an art form.
  Cars still sound quite remarkable and appropriately 
 meaty.
  
  Oh, and the videos are pretty rad.
  
  The bad:
  Commentators are so repulsive, they will make you froth at the mouth.
  Cars now handle like shopping 
 trolleys.
  Menus are cluttered and obviously not intended for a pc.
  Story is nonexistent: cookbooks have better storylines.
  
  What has changed from previous games 
 in the series:
  Drifting, from fun, has been turned into an exercise in frustration that will make you prematurely 
 bald from stress.
  Drag racing minigame is both irrelevant and nonsensical.
  There is car damage, badly implemented as it is.
  
  What has remained the same:
  Inconsistent 
 AI: Sometimes they are pushovers, other times they feature punishing difficulty and will often 
 pull off superhuman moves that will leave you slackjawed.
  Gratuitous shots of women in minimal clothing cavorting around cutscenes.
  Annoying selection 
 of music composed almost entirely of washed-out 90s rock bands, obscure indie droning and some 
 tasteless hip-hop thrown in for good measure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xsplitsolo
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 9, 2007 6:30 pm PT
Review:  i got the game hoping it would be as awesome as most wanted. i played for about 2 hours and i was 
 sick of it. the game was suppost to be street racing i saw a racing sim. heres some things that sucked 
 anout the game.
  *cant customize cars for quick race.
  *busting your car is too easy.
  *once you press nitro its all gone
  *NO COPS
  *cant change your name 
  *drag minigame is 
 stupid
  *a lot of commericials.
  *no speedbraker
  heres some good things a bout it.
  *graphics look cool
  *feeling of speed
  thats it. i got the game in the day and was begging 
 for a return at about 8.
  seeing what a succes carbon and most wanted were a cant see why prostreet is so bad. i hope EA learns 
 its leason and makes a good racing game in the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: magusat999
Rating: 1.5
Date: Apr 22, 2008 11:49 am PT
Review:  After playing Need For Speed Most Wanted, and Carbon, I was just about through with racing games. 
 Need For Spped Underground, Underground 2, Hot pursuit, and Porsche Unlimited were great games 
 - but NFSMW and Carbon added the game breaking "catch up feature" - which translates to "no matter 
 how far ahead you get, the game engine will not let you continue to pull away". Also annoying and 
 related to "catch up" is "rubber-band AI", which means all the cars are contstantly locked within 
 a "rubber band", and the computer operated racers will "bounce forward" if they hit the rear area 
 - even if it means they will spring past you at a rate of speed that no tuning of your car will 
 ever hope to have you acheive.
  
  The rubberband AI and he "catch up feature" does not work for the player - only the computer - 
 so if you get behind, you will see the computer opponents pulling away like it's supposed to happen 
 - leaving you in dustville.
  
  When I read that Pro Street was not going to have those "features", I was very excited to get into 
 it. Incidently, NFS is (or WAS, after this...) the only racer I like. It had just the right handling, 
 great options, variety of races, solid feel (no "floaty" cars) and all around great gameplay. And 
 I like the customization - unlike some racing "purists" out there, I like the idea of totally pimping 
 and maxing a car out. I think they could have more than what was offered in all of the games. Prostreet 
 added meaning to the upgrades - another thing I liked when I heard was being added. So those changes 
 got me excited about NFS all over again.
  
  Unfortunately, what I got was just as bad as what they took away. When they said "ProStreet", I 
 thought the "Street" part meant something. I didn't expect a track racer - and that's exactly what 
 it is. It's very boring to just race around in circles for laps upon laps. A very monotonous affair 
 indeed.
  
  EA also added an unavoidable, constant, nagging online component that won't let you play the game 
 in peace while in Singleplayer mode. Unlike every other NFS game it has made, everything seems 
 to be connected to the internet. If I wanted that, then I would have signed up for an online game 
 - not installed gigabytes of files to my PC. There is no intent of making a complete singleplayer 
 game, but rather a shameless hard-sell to force players online. I found this to be a distraction 
 and ultimately a game breaking feature. I got rid of the stupid game rather than put up with one 
 more "Connecting to EA Nation" flashing sign whenever I wanted to do something simple, like check 
 the leaderboard. EA should have had a singleplayer mode "leaderboard", which was fictional, yet 
 functional, as well as a singleplayer mode for each and every component of the game. I feel like 
 I have been cheated, and EA is discriminating against me because I don't want to go online. I pay 
 the same amount for my game as an online freak - why should I get a broken, half-arsed game?
  
  The music sucked in this game. I don't know more what to say about it. It just sucked. But 
 then, I like Rap music or some banging Metal when I play racing games. I don't know what made them 
 pick the songs they have in NFSPS.
  
  All in all, this game is one bad trip. The only race I enjoyed was racing back to the store to 
 get my money back. I think they should add one word to the initials of this game - and you can 
 figure out what it means - NFS: P of S. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jokey
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 7, 2007 2:51 am PT
Review:  it has the graphics we expect, but the gameplay is not arcade enough,
  after most wanted they have bin trying to change the gameplay to make it a better game, but i think 
 we can all agree they have failed every time.
  lets hope they bring out nfs most wanted 2. It was just wrong to take the cops out of the game. 
 now the game looks like an idiot version of gran turismo. but maybe ea should stop milking the 
 nfs series and come up with someting totaly new. so my conclusion would be: the game is ok, but 
 not addictive, you'll probably get bored when you played it around 30 hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Shadoistic_
Rating: 2
Date: Dec 5, 2007 12:01 pm PT
Review:  Well the graphics are good. But the gameplay is really bad.
  Handling is very complicated. Cars don't turn like they should. NFS Most Wanted was even better 
 than Pro Street. I played this game with a keyboard, a steering wheel and a joystick. Everything 
 was the same. Very disappointing. I should warn everyone don't buy this game it a load of junk. 
 I thought that "Electronics Arts" will create the best NFS game ever. But I was wrong. Playing 
 this game is like doing homework boring and a waste of time. Besides the handling. The speed ain't 
 to good either. The cars are really slow evenly when there tuned and upgraded. So take my advice 
 don't bother with this game. It will only disappoint you. Believe me and don't buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sharang_3
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 5, 2007 11:15 pm PT
Review:  After success of Most Wanted and Carbon there were huge expectations from EA. And EA replied to 
 this with NFS Pro Street. But to the surprise of all this game was different from its 2 predecessors. 
 The main cause of success of most wanted and carbon, i. e. free roam and pirsuit were no longer 
 in the game and it had something different to offer.
  The first thing in a game that tells about its success is its gameplay. NFS PS has a promising 
 career. It is all about legal racing and there arent gonna be any races on the streets now. You 
 start as Ryan Cooper who has nothing to loose and its his story about how he takes on the legal 
 racing to be the street king. One thing is for sure that mw or carbon had better storylines than 
 this. The game tries to make you feel as ryan cooper but it fails. The career introduces new elements 
 after some initial stages but later on you may find the same old races boring. However the career 
 is short enough and the main story line can be finished within 10-14 hrs. 
  Many new modes have been introduced in this game (speed challenges, wheelies) . The speed challenges 
 in particular give you the real sense of speed which lacked in mw as well as carbon. Drag and wheelies 
 are fun but get irritating at times. In both the events ( and also in drift races) you get three 
 chances to post your best score however it gets annoying when you post quite a challenging score 
 in the first run but have to play all three tries ( heating the tires add further to the agony by 
 wasting more time) . The control of the car is much more challenging and new players might face 
 problems. The handling of cars is more realistic.
  The game introduces one of the most hyped feature: damage to the car. damage system in the game 
 has been built well. You can always see your bumper dangling or hood broken (ofcourse there are 
 many more parts which get damaged) . The career offers many repair markers so it wont hurt your 
 pocket to repair them. The autosculpt feature has also improved and affects the performance. One 
 of the most enjoying part is the tuning of your car and seeing it bhp and other performance stats 
 jump. Surely the performance is affected if you dont tune your car at all.
  Looking at the graphics i will say that ea has done commendable job. They have improved quite over 
 carbon and at places they truly look photo realistic.
  World details are done well ( though you will see fifa 08's promotional banners on many tracks) 
 and car details are truly awesome. Reflection details are done well.
  Sound tracks in this game are far better than those in carbon. the dj also offers good commentry 
 but in later stages it gets repitive and boring. The engine sounds are again done well (though 
 they could have improved much more) .
  Overall i would say that this is a good game and not that bad afterall. Though you will miss the 
 free roam and pirsuits but this game has many more things to offer. It should be given a chance 
 and specially by nfs series fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Net_Roamer
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 5, 2007 5:41 am PT
Review:  Most Wanted left me feeling full and satisfied. Carbon left me full but wanting more. ProStreet 
 just left a sour taste in my mouth.
  
  This game is like looking at a meal that looks great in every way, but when u sink your teeth in... ewww
 
  
  The graphics is great in this game, really. Some people might have complained that it looks just 
 like an expansion to Underground; don't listen to them. This game really looks amazing... even after 
 Crysis :D The sounds are great but the commentary is so poorly done i just can't express it. 
 
  
  Gameplay. This is wear it really counts. NFS has always delivered a driving system where it is 
 easy to pick up right from the start. this is not so in ProStreet... it is a triathlon to the finish 
 line from the start. I can't believe how complicated this game is. Car selection is crucial. I'm 
 not saying this is a bad thing, but what happened to buy and drive? NOOO... i have to look at all 
 the specs and see if it FITS... if not, might as well just restart the game.
  
  All the race modes are fun and all, and really, what else could they add to the mix? Grip, Drift 
 Drag, Speed. 3 of these required great control, but the game does not allow that without going 
 into the hood of each car and tuning it into the perfect machine. Gone are the days of buying your 
 car, buying all the upgrades, and bringing it onto the road. Some might like it this way, but i 
 might as well go play a better driving sim if i'm looking for that kind of realism.
  
  Really, for something i've been anticipating since I finished playing Carbon (which is like, 2 
 days after it came out) , I am hugely disappointed. Not that it isn't a fun game to play, but it 
 could have been quite a bit better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: william623
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 5, 2007 12:32 am PT
Review:  Am i playing need for speed underground 1? or this is need for speed underground graphic expansion 
 pack? Souless... No meaning... No cruising, no cops, is this call street racing? street racing 
 is illegal, but why i feel this newest need for speed is feel like, LEGAL?! No COPS anywhere! the 
 cops is sure anoying last nfs, but this is for street racing realistic right? running for nothing, 
 Enter raceday, then racing, enter play, enter, play, again again and again, is OLD feature, already 
 2007! not 2003. step foward! not step backward. should fix a lot of thing to manage a new NFS, 
 hoping the next NFS not like this feature, UPGRADE!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Micaelis13
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 4, 2007 7:46 pm PT
Review:  It is customary of our critical culture to highlight negative aspects of a thing and critique them 
 according to set maximum standards. While this method isn't wholly satisfactory, as those standards 
 are rapidly evolving, it does serve the rather utopian principle of perfection, which has its utility 
 in respect to technology and simulation in its fidelity to what we encounter in our daily experiences. 
 That taken into consideration, NFS: PS is rather convincing as a racing game that attempts to simulate 
 the real physical affects of an actual race.
  
  The latest edition in the NFS series has great customization options for a variety of cars, 50 
 plus, most of which you will find on a stroll down the street. The benefit of this is the ability 
 to customize a ride that you might own without paying the enormous prices in real-life. The ability 
 to tune your car for each track is another great feature of this game. Each adjustment is noticeable 
 in the way your car performs, which makes for a convincing experience.
  
  What NFS: ProStreet lacks is a convincing storyline. It is obvious that little time was spent with 
 it, most of it being dedicated towards physical formulae and aesthetics. While the engine can carry 
 the game without one, the broken storyline that was used greatly detracts from this game and, for 
 that reason deserves a lower score. For the storyline itself totalises the game and its experience, 
 thereby the value of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marlonsm
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 2, 2008 4:46 pm PT
Review:  Pros
  
  -the Raceday idea was great, don't need to win all races, but just score enough on them
  
  
 -Damage, i know that some didn't like it. but it brings much more realism and also, a choice to 
 be maid, to run faster but risking to crash the car, or with more caution
  
  -Dificulty, finnaly a challenging NFS game
  
  -Graphics, no need for explaining it
  
  -Great 
 selection of cars (Lancer X and GT-R )
  
  -Strong AI, the first time i see AI crashing each other, but at the same time, giving a good chalenge
 
  
  -Customization, lots of options
  
  -Long career mode, i was missing it on other NFS games
  
  
  
  Cons
  
  -Some races are 
 somewhat unfair, you always start as the last one, and on sector shootout races, it's a big problem
 
  
  -Can't use the same car for two race modes (not a big con, but could be better)
  
  -No Gallardo
  
  -I just can't race well on slow tracks
  -------
  
  I didn't tried it 
 online, my internet isn't fast and stable enough for it
  
  I can run it on max with a E6420 and a 8600gt, at 1280x1024, 2xAA, 4xAF
  
  Overall it's a great 
 game, much better than Carbon
  
  8.5 /10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Settler87
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 3, 2007 2:08 pm PT
Review:  First time playing Need For Speed ProStreet i thought that it will be similar story ( with little 
 modifications of course ) as the previous series. But i'm going fooled when i see that it was racing 
 game with limited runway, challenging with very ridiculous racers. Simulation is the worst thing 
 in the gameplay because hanging takes a lot of time and not precise. Graphism very simple and never 
 been in the level of Need For Speed Carbone which is my favorite game in this series, the spectators, 
 the cars and all environment is honestly a funny thing!!!
  I hope that EA will avoid this funny show next year with more solid and open environment tuning 
 game, which i'm missing this year : ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: weetbix13
Rating: 1.5
Date: Dec 3, 2007 1:14 pm PT
Review:  Need for Speed Prostreet has got to be the disappointment of the year for me... from terrible menus, 
 ridiculous amounts advertising (i mean really, sponsored achievements?!) , the name Ryan Cooper 
 being thrashed to death, choppy frame rates that make it unclear whether your car is drifting or 
 just lagging, to my personal pet peeve with the game - the vehicle physics are so far off realistic 
 it is ridiculous.
  
  Rubbish, utter rubbish.
  I rented this to have a look, was excited and good to go, but feel hugely let down  i'm not convinced 
 EA should have even released this and hope that the bad reviews especially make them rethink the 
 advertising in game... it is way over the top.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: papermasterhung
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 2, 2007 9:33 am PT
Review:  the older Need for Speed is better then Need for Speed ProStreet.
  in this game I can't race anymore if I don't win something call burnout and I have no clue how 
 that work and they don't tell you how that work. there is a side menu that is way to big on the 
 top left side of the screen. then I race I can see left because of that big screen.
  
  Need for Speed ProStreet is newer but not better.
  
  you should try to rent other racing game 
 first . there are a lot of other racing game out there that are a lot better. even a 5 year old 
 racing game are better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ekerim
Rating: 3.5
Date: Dec 2, 2007 8:41 am PT
Review:  If you like previous titles like "Most Wanted" and "Underground" I would give this game a miss 
 because it will shatter your belief in the NFS series just as it did mine. This game is NOTHING 
 like previous titles. The driving experience is that of botch job LA Street Racing ... I would 
 go so far as to say that this is just a more polished and a bit more feature and graphics complete 
 version of LA Street Racing. I guess that is what you get when you throw a big bag of money on 
 a bad game idea.
  If I ever bought a stock car that handled even close to as bad as my $100.000 tricked out and tuned 
 up in-game car, I would sue the dealers @$$ into oblivion. The developers seem to live under the 
 impression that even minuscule steering wheel movement totally negates the fact that the gas pedal 
 is pressed to or through the floor and thus prevents any form of acceleration or increase of engine 
 RPMs. I personally hate the handling.... it's a joke.
  An other irritation factor is the repetitiveness ... repetitiveness ... repetitiveness, you get 
 the point, of the races. An other thing that drives me crazy is the commentator guy that says thee 
 same thing over and over and over.
  The next problem this game has is the performance, Sure... my rig is not state of the art, GeForce 
 7800GT and AMD x2 4200+, but even at low settings (1024x768, options turned to low) I get stuttering 
 performance that could almost be likened to packet loss. Oh well... running out of characters... The 
 game is visually really really nice but unfortunately the game play sucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gereksiz13
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 2, 2007 2:03 am PT
Review:  The game is incredibly impressive. It takes you inside from the very start of the career introduction. 
 Graphics are great and shiny.
  
  However, after a while the game-play gets repetitive.
  
  Physics are not as good as the game they have tried to resemble: Flatout.
  
  And moreover, 
 the camera keeps jumping as you go on a jumpy road. After a few races my head started spinning. 
 Hey, this is a game after all, I do not have to have a rest of a day or two following each race. 
 On the contrary, the game has the feature of "RACE DAY", during which you compete in various races. 
 Let alone racing a few, racing the whole day, which sometimes consists of 5-6 races, becomes a 
 horrible torture
  
  If you are addicted to NFS, then go buy the game. But if you're looking for decent game with nice 
 graphics and excellent physics, stay with DIRT, GTR, or FLATOUT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marcus8903
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 2, 2007 12:31 am PT
Review:  I have played and beaten Underground, Underground 2, Most Wanted and Carbon. I then got Pro Street 
 thinking this game would have been the star of the line up, but unfortunately it isn't. There are 
 alot of things right and wrong with this game. An example of good in this game would be it had 
 a wide ranges of cars to choose from. A bad example would be that there is too much advertising 
 in this game and the music isn't the best selection either. A big mistake EA forgot was to make 
 an outside world, a world that you can go for a free drive without having to race. Somewhere to 
 have some fun with your car. They also forgot to put the main attraction in which was the police. 
 The cops add an additional fun feature to the game, where you can use your skills to evade the 
 police or just jump over them. This game sure is lacking a few important features. I must say though 
 after about 8 or more Need For Speed games created, it is hard for the game developers to think 
 of a whole new game, cars, tracks, scenery, cut scenes, voices and the list keeps going So for 
 EA to come out with yet another Need For Speed game shows that they want to give more entertainment 
 to the people and they wont give up on providing it. I like to think that everything should be 
 done to fullest potential, not 90% completed, which in my opinion, this game is. All that is missing 
 is that 10% which would make the game superb. There always will be a next time to step up and create 
 another game where the player can be partners with the game. Overall, not a bad game to play and 
 have some fun with in your spare time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonicaze
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 1, 2007 3:59 am PT
Review:  Hard to find out what you have to do and how, Hard to navigate through menus, races, events. Drag 
 mode used to be one of my favourites and now is the worst race since i have to go through the same 
 screen, and do the same thing as many times as the times i have to drag... wow.. what happened 
 to nfs, this is the worst game driving you crazy. Poor performance, i have windows xp with 4000+ 
 processor 2gb ram and ge force 6600gt pci express and the game does not playing smoothly and i 
 cant estimate corners since it freezes instantly every one second. Nice selection of cars though. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gabester666
Rating: 4.5
Date: Nov 30, 2007 10:57 pm PT
Review:  I thought NFS couldn't get any worse - the past four games were just the same shitty ricer game 
 with some uninteresting new features. Then, ProStreet comes along, and I'm hoping it will be good. 
 Nope.
  
  The graphics are nice. It's just too bad that it's a shitty console port and runs like crap. The 
 menu is impossible to navigate because it's ported badly from the console. The most force feedback 
 you'll get on your steering wheel is a cheesy rumble effect that seems to happen for no reason.
 
  
  The game tries way too hard to be 'cool', with the stupid accouncers constantly spouting crap about 
 drifting and motor oil or whatever, and it's all just really stupid and it fails.
  
  Also, the damage on the PC version sucks. The most damage is your hood falling off and getting 
 a few small dents, whereas on the 360, you can really wreck your car. I don't know why.
  
  All I know is that this game is pretty shitty and isn't worth anyone's time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Black_Marble
Rating: 4.5
Date: Nov 30, 2007 10:05 pm PT
Review:  Despite reading many reviews by gamers i still had high hopes that this would have been a good 
 game judging by the great looking graphics and the amount of customizing you could do but boy was 
 i wrong. Navigating through menus can be confusing and the whole street/urban feel of the game 
 has been way overdone. Car handling is very stiff and makes controlling cars really hard i hate 
 the way the camera pulls back and shakes as you go faster i think thats a really annoying feature. 
 Voice acting is horrible and becomes very irritating so are the amounts of advertising for this 
 game! I was very dissapointed, this game had so much potential to become a really great solid game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JKL06
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 30, 2007 2:49 pm PT
Review:  EA has had a long adventure with the Need for Speed series and it was enjoyed and loved by all, 
 until this. Words can't describe how big of a NFS fan i am, but my fire has been put out by pro 
 street. The major problem with it is that EA did not take the time to set the lap records and stats 
 themselves, but instead left it up to the AI, which makes the game cruel and unforgiving at moments 
 and takes away the overall racing feel. The graphics are pretty good, that is if your talking about 
 the car, everything else looks awful, especially the people in the background. They have updated 
 the car selection but in the process forgot to put in some good cars that the game could have really 
 used like the CCX, Honda S 2000, and many more. The races in themselves are very strange and unorganized, 
 mostly due to the AI but also the supposed "realistic" handling and repetitive race tracks. EA 
 should have put more time into this game and maybe it would have been worth your money, but apparently 
 they are more concerned with putting their name on other people's games and not with actually making 
 their own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vasot
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 30, 2007 12:21 pm PT
Review:  This is just another EA garbage with the NFS title on it
  
  - Voices are pathetic
  - Characters are annoying and they are like taken from some B-movie... makes you want to punch your 
 screen when they open their mouth
  - Races are repeative and bland with no action
  - Gameplay reminds a arcade and less a real car simulation
  - Steering is really PATHETIC 
 
  - Graphics are not bad but nothing special either
  
  Anyway after few races the game becomes really boring and swallow
  
  if you are some car fanatic 
 and love anything that has to do with cars and high speed and the 2 fast 2 Furious type of crap 
 you may find the game interesting i guess
  BUT
  If you are a serious gamer do not waste your time with it because you will be disappointed
  
 
  There are better games out there 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slay3rH3ll
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 30, 2007 12:47 am PT
Review:  I never expected something like this to happen, I almost gave up on NFS Series after NFS Carbon 
 was really bad.
  
  But when year 2007 Opens up with EA giving me the new NFS, I was impressed by the first few videos 
 during May. And more info on the game.
  
  Throughout the past 6 months before the game was released, I was very excited for it.
  
  When 
 I first got the game and played, the graphics of the game was amazing! Physics of Drift Modes are 
 realistic, so as Drag and Grip.
  
  I also got a chance to try out the Autosculpt, it really affected on Downforce and Top Speed. I 
 even made my car Drift in Grip Races for more better control!
  
  After spending this game, I must say, EA has done proud for this NFS. After all the ricing crap 
 began in Underground. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dare2Blink
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 29, 2007 2:49 pm PT
Review:  
  Pro Street provides players with a much more realistic experience that was ever present in the 
 series. The level of detail that the game contains truly makes you believe that you are part of 
 the racing world. Despite the fact that cops as well as street racing is no longer present, the 
 game more than makes up for it with a very good damage engine, excelent graphics, and a much more 
 challenging racing experience (especially when compared with Carbon) . The racing is realistic enough 
 so that if you turn off all the driver aids you realy have to learn to break way before a turn 
 and deal with oversteer and understeer much like in real life but it is not exagerated to the point 
 of making casual players feel ostricised. The moding is better than ever before with more options 
 for performance parts and by introducing aerodynamics, meaning that altering the outside of your 
 car will have a real impact on how your car handles. The other thing that sets this game apart 
 from others is the fact that it forces players to actually drive carefully because any damage to 
 the car eventually has to be repaired (even restaring the race will not save you from this) . Pro 
 Street also provides more extensive tuning options than have a trully big impact on how your car 
 behaves. The AI in the game is decent enough so that in the latter races players will be forced 
 to specifically tune their cars for each race to gain all the advantage that they can get. The 
 game does, however, containg some performance issues, but this will hopefully be solved by the 
 first patch. Overall Pro Street is a great game that will keep you stuck to your computer for hours 
 on end and that will provide a challenging and trully emerging experience to both hardcore and 
 casual gamers.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: getutsav
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 29, 2007 9:41 am PT
Review:  I find that the game could have been much better had they implemented a better menu system and 
 developed the story a bit more as this will piss of some fans of the previous games as those had 
 a gr8 story. Overall races are top notch and feel realistic now and the damage system has been 
 implemented really well this will make people race properly as you can easily bust up your ca if 
 you mess up too much 
  
  To sum it up this is a gr8 game but could have been much much better a must have for any NFS fan. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Knight113
Rating: 2
Date: Nov 29, 2007 9:36 am PT
Review:  Need for Speed ProStreet certainly is something, but not something good. If you were ever subjected 
 (never admit to doing this out of your own free will) to late night sessions of PS2 racing games 
 with your friends, while you're drunk as a bum on methylated spirits, then you're bound to get 
 that strange feeling of deja vu. Everything feels soooo slow, but you still hit the barriers because 
 the *EXPLETIVE* cow just won't turn. And the worst part is that I am still sober! The feel of the 
 game is so bad that I could have sworn I was driving the USS Enterprise disguised to look like 
 a VW Golf!
  And to add insult to injury, there's even magical green lines showing you where to drive, and when 
 to brake. I guess EA thought it would help as an advanced guidance system for the lumbering spaceships 
 disguised as cars.
  And of course, if you love retarded plotlines, voice acting and characterization, then you'll love 
 ProStreet! It features the most retarded characters, setups and annoying cutscenes in any game 
 I've ever seen!
  Honestly, after 1 hour of ProStreet I want to dump my quad core rig in a lake, dig up my IBM XT 
 and play Testdrive in glorious black and white. It would be an improvement, I assure you! 
  Anyway, if you own a console, knock yourself out. You'll enjoy it, I know.
  If you are older 
 than 9 and you own a decent PC, shut it down and think happy thoughts. This game might drive you 
 to violence otherwise...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: la_cassanova
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 29, 2007 4:46 am PT
Review:  Need For Speed - Pro Street is a game that tries to deliver the most out of its racing techniques. 
 Combined with dazzling graphics, the game sets out with you as 'Ryan Cooper', a racer who wants 
 to prove his skills.....
  Races unfold around the globe, as you decide to make the most out of them... You have to choose 
 between winning an event, or dominating it, the latter being more rewarding......
  The game is heavily simulated, with realistic damage visuals, crashing windshields, and loads of 
 other stuff, and it requires skills to get past every racer on the track......
  There are a bunch of new races, including speed challenge, wheelie competition (very appealing!!!!!) , 
 and a reintroduction to the drag race......
  Customization is on the roll with thousands of options, parts never heard of, torque and traction, 
 and god knows what else........
  The multi-player is very nice, as the game provides the player with the option to host his own 
 race day, share his blueprint, and many other things......
  Every car in the game can only be customized for a particular type of race mode, be it drag or 
 grip, or anything else........
  Loads of money is on the grab, as the game does not fail to provide a large number of cars and 
 parts on the buying side....
  Where the game lacks is its story, one may simply be bored playing one race after the another, 
 it's too monotonous, there's no city to explore and nowhere to go except that same racing menu (which 
 is nicely designed though) ........
  In simple words, the game is innovative, and a nice mixture of graphics, game-play and racing skills 
 required, with so-so AI in the play...... So if you want to try something new in the series, this 
 game is surely meant for you......
  Go N Play NFS - PRO STREET!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SciCo666
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 28, 2007 8:55 pm PT
Review:  After the abyssmal failure that was Carbon, I thought they might pull it straight with ProStreet. 
 Not so.
  This just another track-racing game, which offers nothing the others don't, aside from poor performance.
 
  EA don't seem to realise that a lot of the NFS fans are looking for the flash of Underground 1 
 & 2, as well as the fun factor of Most Wanted.
  No 'pimping' your car, no cops, no street traffic... no attraction.
  I bought the game (won't 
 make that mistake again. EA just lost my business) , and admittedly, it's better than the demo, 
 but only slightly. The cars lack realism, the game runs poorly, despite the mediocre graphics, 
 and the sound is nothing short of annoying. Bad music selection, unrealistic car sounds, and I 
 wish the commentator would just SHUT UP!
  
  If you're a die-hard Underground fan, leave this one on the shelf. You'll only be wasting your 
 hard-earned dollars on a lame mule.
  Not even worth pirating... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mauricefortin00
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 28, 2007 10:02 am PT
Review:  The game feels good though it can become a little same same after a while. I like it though. The 
 customization is ok but in reality it takes a while and lots of cash to upgrade and get all the 
 cars you will need for later in the game. Advertisment sux way to much of that music is ok but 
 could have had more and more variety.
  
  Announcers though they do change become annoying after a while. Have not made it to all play modes 
 yet so. I like the drag but choose cars carefully and set it up just right. smoking your ties every 
 round for three rounds is a little difficult and drifiting is difficult at times top speed and 
 speed challenges are sick they can be quite difficult.
  
  Creds to designer though customization and tuning can do a whole lot of good or bad. The only problem 
 i have is you can have 4 set ups per vehicle but each vehicle has to reace exclusively in a certain 
 mode i. e drift drag top speed grip. Its ok but shame you couldnt set up 1 mode choice on each of 
 4 slots. Effects are great ai is great although it does get choppy shame because all effects and 
 graphics etc would have made details supreme on this game...
  Colors for cars decals WOW!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AndrasDelczeg
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 11:33 pm PT
Review:  I just read the official Gamespot review by Aaron. It really expressed exactly what I experienced 
 when I tried to play this game. While the ads are not that disturbing, the presenter between the 
 races was way overdone.
  I got a p4 dual-core 2,4Mh with 7900 GeForce and the game runs excellent with all graphics maxed 
 while previous versions seemed much more jumpy on the same system.
  It's a must try game for those who played the previous ones but few are going to get the same satisfaction 
 out of it.
  I am not sure how exciting it gets further on the game but got really bored with it after a couple 
 of race days. Previous versions were amazing. I replayed them several times just for fun and they 
 always offered something new -- career decisions (which type of car I go with) had consequences 
 there through the very end of the game.
  I usually don't go for race games, and this feels just a regular race game. What got me till now 
 was the real "NEED for SPEED" with the excitement of a chase -- both chasing and being chased,
 
  I hope there will be a future version soon which will take off from where the last one left off. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: roger6910
Rating: 3.5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 5:11 pm PT
Review:  First of all, i am a big fan of need for speed series. I loved all the previous games, and was 
 exited to try this one. But this game is a great disappointment...
  Lets start of with the system requirements, the game isn't very optimezed, and i heard from many 
 people that it runs like crap on there systems. Well i tried it on a x1950 pro with a x2 3800 and 
 2gb ram and at everything at max and resolution 1024x768 i got around 40 fps, and at some points 
 25. For a midrange system like mine i think it is on the low side.
  However the graphics do look juicy, the cars look great espacially the damage. But you will not 
 see this unless you have a fairly high end computer. Or you are willing to play at 5fps.
  There is another big issue with this game, and that is the controls. If you have a keyboard, that 
 you wont be able to control your car at all, steering is god awfull. It's like there is a button 
 that goes on, and of, and nothing in between. You iether turn to much or dont turn at all. Now 
 i trying this game with a stearing weel and it improved a little bit, but still was nowhere near 
 enjoyable. They say that they made it more realistic, but i am not entirely sure about that iether. 
 I took a mazda rx8 and tuned it to the max, and sertain corners, while following the "good" line 
 i could make them by going 180 km/h, while other corners of similar structur i had to take at 40 
 km/h, and if that is realism, than i think i need my brain rechecked.
  Conclusion: well, it looks great but only if you have a monster of a machine, you can't control 
 your car unless you have a stearing will and even than you are strugling with it and not enjoying 
 yourself, and the part that made most NFS games so popular was taken out. That is that you have 
 an open world and that you race on the streets!!!! I am sorry to say but they really messed up 
 this game. They should change it's name so that need for speed fans don't feel ashamed.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maranello993
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 1:20 pm PT
Review:  Pro street has the best damage model I've seen in a reasonably fun game ever. The sounds are amazing, 
 the engines are NOT all the same. The supra sounds like a supra, the skyline and evo like their 
 real counterparts. I own a turbo eclipse and it doesn't sound right in the game AT ALL, but no 
 game has ever gotten that right for the eclipse. The physics are a huge step in the right direction, 
 although the drifting is DEEEEPLY flawed, contrary to what most people say. (that the drifting 
 is the best part) . I got so frustrated with the drifting physics that I quickly exited the game 
 and started up RFactor, a racing sim, so that I could cleanse myself of any bad driving habits 
 I developed while trying to win that race day. The graphics would probably be stunning, if I could 
 turn them up enough to really enjoy them. 1gig ram, Nvid. 7600GS 256mb, amd 64 overclocked to 3ghz. 
 The car graphics are all the way up, the world almost all the way down, but the graphics are better 
 than any other racing game I've seen. I like the tire warm up in the drag racing and the feeling 
 of speed that reviewers say is lacking is entirely there and much more believable than the cursed 
 arcade physics of carbon and most wanted. I use my driving force pro fro pro street, I wouldn't 
 dare try that for carbon or most wanted, I use a 360 controller for those games. The menus are 
 hard to use but that is not a big deal. There is clutch support and six speed shifter support. 
 The extended tuning options are a massive new feature. The car selection is better than ever, but 
 I'm mad that the collector edition is a 10 dollar additional purchase. I would have liked the free 
 roam environment, but that would require cops to be realistic, and if you were able to total your 
 car, a cop chase wouldn't last long, and with cops you wouldn't have the good car selection that 
 Pro street does because companies don't want their cars to be licensed for a game that you run 
 from the cops in. I noticed that even as far back as need for speed 3 hot pursuit you couldn't 
 use ferraris to run from the cops. Dropping free roam and pursuit mode is a fine trade off for 
 being able to damage, and even total, your car. I looked forward to this game for a long time and 
 pre-ordered it. It was worth the wait and was better than the hype around it, every time I played 
 it I found out about new features that make it that much better. Sure its no sim, but its the best 
 compromise between simulator and arcade physics that I've ever seen. When I want to practice for 
 autocross, I do RFactor or GT Legends, when I want to see amazing graphics and become immersed 
 in the sound of a car, I play (not drive) pro-street. I don't think I will even take carbon or 
 most wanted out again as long as this game is still in my collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kirilltch
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 27, 2007 11:34 am PT
Review:  First of all, i am a big fan of need for speed series. I loved all the previous games, and was 
 exited to try this one. But this game is a great disappointment...
  Lets start of with the system requirements, the game isn't very optimezed, and i heard from many 
 people that it runs like crap on there systems. Well i tried it on a x1950 pro with a x2 3800 and 
 2gb ram and at everything at max and resolution 1024x768 i got around 40 fps, and at some points 
 25. For a midrange system like mine i think it is on the low side.
  However the graphics do look juicy, the cars look great espacially the damage. But you will not 
 see this unless you have a fairly high end computer. Or you are willing to play at 5fps.
  There is another big issue with this game, and that is the controls. If you have a keyboard, that 
 you wont be able to control your car at all, steering is god awfull. It's like there is a button 
 that goes on, and of, and nothing in between. You iether turn to much or dont turn at all. Now 
 i trying this game with a stearing weel and it improved a little bit, but still was nowhere near 
 enjoyable. They say that they made it more realistic, but i am not entirely sure about that iether. 
 I took a mazda rx8 and tuned it to the max, and sertain corners, while following the "good" line 
 i could make them by going 180 km/h, while other corners of similar structur i had to take at 40 
 km/h, and if that is realism, than i think i need my brain rechecked.
  Conclusion: well, it looks great but only if you have a monster of a machine, you can't control 
 your car unless you have a stearing will and even than you are strugling with it and not enjoying 
 yourself, and the part that made most NFS games so popular was taken out. That is that you have 
 an open world and that you race on the streets!!!! I am sorry to say but they really messed up 
 this game. They should change it's name so that need for speed fans don't feel ashamed.
  
  Verdict:
  Performance: 4
  Graphics: 9 (if you can max everything out, else don't bother)
 
  Sounds: 7
  Gameplay: 2 (not for everyone)
  Replay value: 2
  Overall: 4 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lada2107black
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 11:08 am PT
Review:  very poor handling of the cars . they turn very easy or not at all. sucks when play in speed challenge 
 only the speed is really fast. difficulty = very hard because of poor handling. The repair is easy 
 because if you are medium player it will not caust you real money.. it has enougth markers! I played 
 nfs pro street to the hardest level because I can myself handle the cart in corners without bracking 
 from the computer. but it was very hard to do that with the poor quick turning. I have steering 
 wheel but with it , it was more difficult. I become ryo in the first place then drift king. but 
 then in speed challenge just it is almost inpossible to handle the car. The game is very long and 
 that 's good. There are many cars, that 's great ! But in first place don't buy it legal . the 
 money are not for spending for this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 69ChargerRT
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 27, 2007 5:36 am PT
Review:  Before I start, I must say I've been interested in the NFS series ever since underground came out. 
 I've always enjoyed its style and gameplay, plus it always brings something fresh to the table 
 in each successive chapter.
  
  I bought prostreet in the same mindset that I bought the others, in which I would receive a well 
 rounded, unique and fun game. In some aspects this is true, but in others it certainly isn't.
 
  
  Firstly, the graphics  I've got a pretty good rig and can run the game on full settings with all 
 the extras and it IS a very nice looking game. The cars especially are well detailed and solid, 
 and whilst the tracks are pretty bland I do like the additional bits n bobs (such as the balloons, 
 crowds etc) . One thing I did find was no matter how much I tried I could never get my cars paint/decals/vinyls 
 etc to look as crisp and professional as the AI's which I found a bit annoying, as in the other 
 games you could quite easily match and surpass the quality of the other cars.
  
  Now coming from experience with the older games I charged into my first race, flew off and immediately 
 crashed into a wall when my car wouldn't turn under braking. This was... different to say the least, 
 especially having played 'realistic' games such as Gran Turismo where you have at least some limited 
 car controls. I also found my car to have the turning circle of a barge when at low speed (not 
 good for those tight corners!) . The sounds were nice though, I've always liked NFS's 'clunky' gearchanges 
 and realistic engine pitch.
  
  The lack of story I wasn't too bothered about as I found it a nice new fresh setting, and upon 
 encountering the announcer I thought it was another fresh touch until he kept repeating the same 
 thing over and over (especially the British guy!)
  
  Probably my main criticism of the game was the difficulty curve. Yes I like a challenge and others 
 most likely found the game quite easy, but after playing on the 'king' setting (only chose that 
 to stop my car braking by itself?!) after the first set of races I found the competition suddenly 
 get much much tougher. The stated BHP figures at the start of the race don't seem to make much 
 difference either (especially after a particular race in which everyone had the exact same car, 
 yet the AI flew ahead of me and I had absolutely no chance of catching up) or on drag race where 
 a car with less than half of my horsepower raced ahead.
  
  Apart from that, I feel it was worth the purchase even with the annoying niggles.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MadlilMart
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 27, 2007 5:18 am PT
Review:  After playing the demo of this game i must say i was extremely unimpressed, the game seemed to 
 lack all of the features of the previous NFS series.
  The start to NFS PS was as medicore as the others. but i must say after playing the game for a 
 while i'm hooked, the customisation beats the pants off all the previous games. You just have to 
 keep going back and tweaking your car to get the best out of it, whether its for speed or power 
 its great.
  
  One bad thing i must say that there seems to be a severe lack in the amount of cars you can get, 
 in previous games there was a car lot where you could choose from a selection of cars, where in 
 this game it seems that you are given cars for the most part then for newer events you get the 
 choice of 2 cars if you win, just 2 cars? Whats happened to all the others? My current drag car 
 sucks compared to the cars in the new area but i can't buy a new one i just have to continue and 
 hope i will unlock when further down the line.
  
  All in all if you look past the previous games, NFS PS is a great racing game, but thats all it 
 is, a racing game, if you like to go as fast as you can all the time this game for you but if you 
 want the fun of dodging traffic and being chased by cops then stick with the previous games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: impalerking
Rating: 3.5
Date: Dec 13, 2007 2:59 pm PT
Review:  Have you ever caught yourself daydreaming while playing a game? Well that is the best sign that 
 a game is a total waste of money. ProStreet Demo has the power to make the gamer feel sleepy all 
 the time. The races are the very same and considering that NFS series had a great variety of exciting 
 (and sometimes hard) challenges, ProStreet gets repetitive and easy after 2 or 3 races. The illegal 
 underground theme with police chases was replaced by a very well organized race event, with announcers 
 and Ads (LOTS of ads...) .
  
  Unless you got a super computer, you won't be able to run this game smoothly in a medium-high quality. 
 The graphics are really great but it doesn't make a difference if you can't play the game.
  
  Cars... well, it's all about them right? wrong...
  The cars are mostly the same from the 
 last NFS games...
  
  The story (like any NFS game) is about a guy (you) that wants to race, but he lost to another guy 
 (the boss ) . So you start with a stock car, win some races, earn some money and tune your car. 
 It really doesn't make any sense but in all NFS games... you are the SUPER RACER!
  
  Watch out for walls and obstacles... now they DO make a difference. You cannot simply pass through 
 a sign with nothing more than a broken window. In ProStreet your car will crash and get totaled 
 if you hit things too hard, and that would be a very nice thing IF the controls were not so crappy. 
 Ok, i know you cant turn a 90&deg; curve at 260mph, but that is not the point... you cannot build 
 a supercar and go racing out there either.. and even if you could, cars in NFS can reach EXTREMELY 
 high speeds. So, if the producers wanted to put more realism into the game, they failed. Bring 
 back the 90&deg; curves at 250mph, it was better than crashing into a wall at 250mph and watch 
 a slow motion (non-stopable) video of you car flying and desintegrating in mid-air showing you 
 how much you suck for not breaking before that sign of curve .
  
  ProStreet is a total letdown compared to other NFS games (all the others...) , and it should come 
 with a warning of 100% risk of getting bored to death on the case. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lover_bibo_2008
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 26, 2007 10:21 pm PT
Review:  thats the worth game in the whole series , there is nothing new , some old cars , too many performance 
 issues , no more police pursuits , or free world navigation
  thats the worth game in the whole series , there is nothing new , some old cars , too many performance 
 issues , no more police pursuits , or free world navigation
  thats the worth game in the whole series , there is nothing new , some old cars , too many performance 
 issues , no more police pursuits , or free world navigation
  thats the worth game in the whole series , there is nothing new , some old cars , too many performance 
 issues , no more police pursuits , or free world navigation 
  
  
  please don't buy use ur money to support good games 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordAzmodan
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 26, 2007 6:32 pm PT
Review:  That's the shortest i ever played in NFS, only couple of hours and i judged the game to be totally 
 BORING, the racetrack is too small, only 2 lanes most of the time, you need to break really hard 
 to take a sharp corner, even if you are Shumakher you'll have problems with timing in this game, 
 despite it being too heavy to run on my PC (3.4 GHz 4 MB cach, 2 GB ram, 512 MB GPU GForce 6600 
 GT) you have to turn off most of the details, which makes it less interesting, and less appealing, 
 but if you turn it up, the game is really slow and annoying, and there's nothing exciting about 
 it, you just go in rounds and rounds, even McRally is very exciting compared to this one, it's 
 a total let down from EA, seems that this is not EA's year, most of their games are overestimated.
 
  Obviously the game developers been inspired by the british TV show "Top Gear", cause many of the 
 things you see on the game been previously featured on Top Gear, such as: the red smoke tyres, 
 the drifting guy sitting on the door, .. etc.
  But again, this is fun watching it in real life, not in a video game, seriously this game can't 
 get worse, unless you don't know what TC and ABS are, then you better don't even buy this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sebitoma
Rating: 3
Date: Nov 26, 2007 4:00 pm PT
Review:  After the first 10 minutes of playing I thought there is something wrong with my keyboard. AWFUL 
 response. I do know that EA got in "trouble" for "making" retarded 17 year olds believe they can 
 actually do the stuff that they do in previous NFS games on the actual streets, but that's NOT 
 really EA's fault. Hence the new, and worst NFS ever created. ("OH, let's take the racing off the 
 street and onto the track" I think that's how they "fixed" their problem with the law) . BAD BAD 
 choice. You have so so many games out there that were making you race in freaking circles on a 
 track but NFS was different than everything else that's out there. In my opinion, that's why people 
 bought it and LOVED it (of course I have to mention the amazing number of "stuff" you can put on 
 your car) . They really messed up with this one ... They started going downhill with Carbon and 
 they really hit the BOTTOM with this one ... I think they should win some kinda of award for going 
 from AMAZING to DEAD IN THE WATER with only 2 (TWO) games. That is something :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CAPTAINYOUNO
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 26, 2007 3:22 pm PT
Review:  The best NFS they have made was NFS underground 2. You could do everything to you car . Now a person 
 has been cut in half. Not to mition the races are not that exciting anymore. I would have to say 
 NFS is going down hill and need to do something fast about it. They need to bring in some character 
 creation. Let them pick garages, and not only let them design the outside of the car but the inside 
 as well like add gauges interior, steering wheels, seats and like LCD in the cars. On the outside 
 bring back different doors, lights both front and back and under the hood stuff. not to metion 
 the sterio systems. And we should even see a change in that as well like if you want the music 
 louder you just cant go to options and change it you have to buy a new sterio system. Its just 
 a thought but NFS prostreets is not good at all and I wish I would not have wasted my money 
::::::

::::::
UserName: casper008
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 26, 2007 12:41 pm PT
Review:  Worst of All need for speed games, fans of need for speed will find this game to be a big disappointment 
 like myself. New people to the series may find it somewhat ok at best and that's a big Maybe. The 
 game to me was boring and repetitive. (note: i did like all other nfs) Did not like ingame music 
 nor the announcer, i had to shut off these game options. All cars seam slow even with nitro blah 
 blah. Graghics even all set to max could not help this game, what are these game developers thinking? 
 Where are the graphics? did a 5 year old come up with this? I finished the game via trainer only 
 to see if the game got better on later levels but it did not, it was the same cheesy game through 
 out from start to finish! I took it back to the store and exchanged it for cryisis. My advise is 
 play the demo and that's it , Don't waste your money on this even if you got it for FREE it's not 
 worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soova
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 26, 2007 7:22 am PT
Review:  First to say that i am big fan of Need for Speed and i think that Underground and Most Wanted are 
 the best parts of this franchise, at least for me. But i don't know what went wrong with those 
 who made this game so popular and good. I mean Pro Street have very good graphic, great choice 
 of cars but game is not what i expect. It looks more like TOCA then Need for Speed. Tracks are 
 boring and there is no enough space to push your car to the limit because of those hard turns when 
 you need to slow down or to stop your car just to make turn. Why would you give me car that can 
 go 300 km per hour when i don't have any place to test it except in drag race. Next concept of 
 damage is very bad and cops are missing very, very much. There is no that feeling of speed like 
 there was in Most Wanted when cops press you and you must escape or you end up in jail. Actually 
 this game lost Need for Speed soul. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scibbs
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 26, 2007 5:31 am PT
Review:  Where to start.
  I have been a fan from the very beginning. Need For Speed: SE, now that was a game. For those that 
 have played, and remember should know of the fast tracks, fast cars and the skill a player had 
 to aquire for EACH car had to be uniquie but also well defined. Bright tracks, the OPTION for day/evening.
 
  
  i believe it all came undone for NFS series when Underground Came out. For all the drifters and 
 night racers out there. thats all well and good, but how about an option for those who dont like 
 it?
  
  Most Wanted, Carbon and Now Pro Street share the same graphics engine, and to say the least that 
 is a really bad move. car handling and physics modelling is far from accurate and buggy game play 
 and menu systems make it a pain in my behind, its all off-putting.
  
  I can say for all who were awaiting Pro Street that we were hoping/expecting a new, well at least 
 upgraded graphics and gameplay engine. But its par, i mean PAR with Underground 2... what are you 
 guys thinking???
  
  Carbon was a total mess. i mean all night no day? what is this GOTHAM CITY?? controls were wack! 
 if i tried to take off in 2nd or 3rd i would make smoke and go backwards?? "coo-coo, ,coo-coo" 
 at least you fixed that EA.
  
  but in a nutshell...
  NFS High Stakes was the last of the Best Need For Speed's...
  
  Carl
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadibm
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 26, 2007 1:12 am PT
Review:  OK.. 
  I actually pre-wrote an offal review, i mean the game on general is a total disappointment and 
 all the fun points started with NFS Underground
  has been demolished. And what's up with the TAKE RACE OUT OF THE STREET
  chill out man it's just 
 a game and I don't wanna take that game out of the street
  after all it is NEED For Speed
  
  and further more this game is far more complicated and requires that you actually becomes a 
 car engineering expert more or less.
  
  the way the games started is also un encouraging, specially if you take the story 
  Sequences 
 in both NFS Most Wanted and NFS Carbon.
  
  We were expecting some surd of a story in the middle, and they had to remove the free world mode 
 as well 
  
  So on general the games was just not right and I tell you I was expecting too much to end up getting 
 nothing
  
  But I gotta say that after giving the game a chance and getting the hang of it, and even though 
 that the races becomes more similar eventually , you still can find a few good points there like 
 the Cars for example and the reality of the races 
  
  Graphics are great how ever Carbon is still my favourite from that angle
  I'm still half way 
 in the game only but I think you could give it a shut just don't build your hopes so high or even 
 start to compare the older versions of the game with this one
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: R1SE
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 25, 2007 6:41 pm PT
Review:  Need for speed pro street is most good need for speed since hot pursuit 2, made years that so made 
 nastinesses as underground 1 and 2 and carbon, most wanted ties was one little good one, but this 
 very more good, with damages , good cars, good graphics had finally thought about pretty cenaries 
 and so cool cars and tunning, favours the god had made something that ea gives congratulations 
 in this you had made right, only dont understands the note to 6,5 from gamespot being that it is 
 well better NFS who has made in last years
  sorry the ugly english 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paulomello2006
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 25, 2007 11:34 am PT
Review:  What can I say about this attempt?
  
  Its hard to describe, an unsuccessfull attempt of innovation.... Thats it
  
  The sum of:
 
  
  Mediocre Graphics, Mediocre Sounds, Terrible controls, Terrible game line, Uninspired challenges, 
 Some bugs and some glitches, Bad cars physics,, Bad drive experience, Bad interface.
  
  ... and te results:
  
  2 or 3 hours of gameplay and nothing more... at all costs I tried to play 
 a new NFS game, but I dont see nothing that convinces me to continue...
  
  Sorry I tried... but its dont live any more in my PCs HD.
  Nothing more to say about this game... its 
 so mediocre, and it so poor...
  
  R. I. P NFS Series... its over!
  Better luck next time EA.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: foever86
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 4:51 pm PT
Review:  In case if you didn't read my starting title of this review, that's right. I hate EA games. I hate 
 them for making too many titles in such a short period of time, and I hate how almost all of their 
 titles are usually empty nuts with nice cover on the outside. Very sadly, Need for Speed: Pro Street 
 is one of those bad nuts from EA.
  
  I still remember the days when I had fun driving around at 300MPH with my Mercedes-Benz destroying 
 cars and houses. It obviously wasn't realistic, but NFS did introduce something new into the series, 
 and the idea of going against hundreds of police car was just simply entertaining.
  
  The NFS: PS took a huge turn from those ideas, and now the game is trying to go all white, no underground 
 races, and all 100% genuinely legal races. The game developers say it still has street kind of 
 feeling but I still don't really feel it. The game makes it so hard for me to find its identity, 
 and there's nothing flashy about this game.
  
  The best part of this game is probably its new driving engine (I don't know if there's such thing, 
 but let's just say there is..) and it makes the driving more realistic compared to their previous 
 titles from NFS. Driving at 200MPH and hitting a tree won't let you still drive away in one piece 
 anymore. All the crashes don't seem to be scripted and I sometimes just enjoy watching the wrecked 
 vehicle.
  
  Other than that, everything else is not really attractive. I read gamespot's review before I played 
 the game so maybe I was looking for those factors during the game, but they were mostly right. 
 Their voice acting is so horrible, there's nothing that can describe how bad it is. Oh yeah, I 
 can say this. It sounds like the voice actor really really didn't want to take the job, but EA 
 gave him so much money, he just had to take the offer. Yes, it's that bad.
  
  There are lots of advertisement, but it's not like they put the add right in the middle of screen. 
 Usually you won't notice the ads because you're too concentrated on the driving. This one, however, 
 is the game with the most in game advertisement I have ever seen to date.
  
  That's about it. The real problem with this game is that there aren't really anything too great 
 nor too horrible (except the voice acting) . There are already lots of racing games whose goal is 
 to provide the most realistic driving experience. NFS: PS doesn't even provide the most realistic 
 driving experience but it has lost its own NFS flavor as well. I feel a lot of long lasting NFS 
 fans will be disappointed and leave the series. 
  
  Either way, this game shouldn't be on the top 10 of your holiday shopping list. Because for both 
 the fan of NFS series or racing games and other casual gamers, this won't be appealing for too 
 long. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Greenskin
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 3:42 pm PT
Review:  i dont know what copy get GS but my working fine (no performance issues) .
  for me its very solid racing game, worth playing and spending money. 
  graphics -best, sound 
 - very good, music - cool but after few hours races little tiring, story - who wants from gt racing 
 game story? - its not rpg
  too much advertising? ohh damn on gs site there much more advertising ;) btw i looking on the track 
 to keep best possible line not everywhere around.
  interface broken? - its new and not quite good at first glance but after few minutes you can used 
 to it. stupid ppl not playing games (oh damn where is this garage?)
  very cool damage system - you will try not to collide with others at every possible way.
  i like 
 it . good work EA 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scarcy
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 24, 2007 7:54 am PT
Review:  A game for Automotive Enthusiast to enjoy!
  
  A completely different game from the current "Need for Speed" series, Personally , i LOVE it.
 
  
  Reading a lot of the current reviews has made me realize how one sided the gaming community has 
 become. Its all about magic, knights, dragons, and dedicating your entire life to your online XP 
 points. Well each to their own i guess, but i think that people have reviewed this game harshly 
 without actually thinking.
  
  Fist of all if you want to fully experience this game, i recommend playing on PC with a wheel and 
 clutch and six speed "H" pattern shifter (such as a "logitech G25") . The game is fairly realistic, 
 but at the same time forgiving. Knowing how to drive a manual helps of course.
  
  Drift mode tends to easily pull you into a drift, but is still a great experience as Trottle control, 
 Clutch kicking, Power-over and the e-brake come into play. The drag races are a hoot, doing massive 
 burn-out's before staging to get your tyres as sticky as possible, how well you do your burn-out 
 oviously affects your time.
  
  The modification of car's could have been done better. It still has the same characteristics as 
 previous series, were you simply click and upgrade pack for $X and off you go. I felt that a slightly 
 more copmplex upgrade feture could have been integrated (Selecting E. G. Turbos T0Z4, GT35r or the 
 ability to choose specific engine work) . The tuning is good, gives you options to suit you driving 
 style.
  
  The damage feature is pretty cool, but annoying : ( i guess it makes you think twice about how your 
 going to aproach a corner or who you want to take out. Even for minor damage it cost around $3000 
 to fix.
  
  I am not a fan of EA, they seem to rush all their games to make max $$$ but forget all about the 
 love. However a lot of work went into this game, great graphics, great physics, accurate data. 
 Being a supra owner myself i was suprised that the weight and stats of the car were very accurate.
 
  
  In summary if you don't know much about cars, or you think you know about cars, but really don't 
 , then this is NOT the game for you. The period of the ricer with their neon lights is over. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dudeXgoreXcore
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 5:43 am PT
Review:  When I got this game it was a kick in the nuts
  EA threw out the window most of the basics that made the last few games so awsome.
  
  The game 
 is filled with lacks:
  1. Why its not on the STREETS, where COPS can chase you for not obeying the law?
  2. Like I said... COPS. 
 I miss those ultra-high-speed chases and smashing police cars with giant donuts.
  3. AI is so dumb, most of the time you will drive leading by a few million miles, all alone : ( and 
 hoping that someone will choke the announcer to death with his own mic.
  4. No Story..... Oh sorry, no normal story. Its basically "You good guy with helmet, beat bad guy 
 with supercool car to bring peace to the world".
  
  But on the other hand there are a few pluses to the game:
  1. The customization is so cool there 
 are tons of options, love the aoutosculpt and the infinite amount of layers when putting vinyls.
 
  2. While the racing is pretty boring it still fun to go at high speeds.
  3. Car damage is just awsome and so high detailed and realistic (where else can you smash a Lamborghini 
 for free?)
  
  In the end its just another racing game just with awsome cars.
  If you are a hardcore NFS fan and have to have every single NFS game buy it.
  If you are not 
 then borrow it for a friend or something don't waste your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pratyushbajpai
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 3:38 am PT
Review:  i have played the game enough to know stuff about it. Well lets see; no free roam, stupid commentary, 
 no cops, no STORY.
  but still on the bright side different races, nice upgrades and cars, descent graphics, and nice 
 game play at least don't make it boring.
  What EA did was good but could have been better. They should have at least improved the crowd and 
 a story could have been easily in the game.
  Any ways it is a nice game to buy but just if u want to kill time. Unlike the last two Need for 
 Speed games, which told the story of an underground street racer through campy yet entertaining 
 cut scenes, ProStreet follows the legal street racing career of Ryan Cooper. The game still uses 
 cut scenes to try to instill some story into the proceedings -- something about Ryan getting dissed 
 by a big-time street racer -- but it's uninteresting 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sonic-Blade
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 23, 2007 5:27 pm PT
Review:  Personally I think that EA finally took the right path with NFS. But it is still lacking something...
 
  
  Well, until NFS Hot Pursuit 2 (or NFS6) , chases were really fun. Then Underground 1 came. It was 
 great! You could use japanese cars, tune them up and make them look like you wanted to. Underground 
 2 improved on that formula (maybe a bit too much though...) .
  
  Then Most Wanted came with the return of cop chases. It was nice in the beggining but it got boring 
 fast. But that wasn't the only thing Most Wanted brought: there was the storyline too. But, storyline 
 in a racing game? Yeah right. This isn't RPG, for god's sake. Carbon then tried to fix what most 
 wanted lacked but didn't managed to do it.
  
  Now ProStreet came, promising to be a true racing game: Your car, your opponents and the track. 
 Just that.
  
  Ok, the car list is great! I love tuners and american muscles, and some euro cars too. Modification 
 is good... could've a bit better (like how Carbon was on that part) but it's ok. But now it have 
 damage! I mean, now you REALLY have to take care of your car, instead of driving like a tank.
 
  
  Gameplay: really good on this one. First, the realism. You can't make a L turn on 250km/h anymore. 
 And the game modes: Race, Drift and Drag. Who need more than that?
  
  And finally, the tracks. Now we get to see different backgrounds, at least! That's something I 
 was missing. Since NFSU, racing in the same place over and over was kinda boring.
  
  But ProStreet still lacked on some points:
  - Car customization: Being able to use custom vinyls 
 would be a great addition. And well, I'll miss the blower on my Dodge.
  
  - Enviroment: Either is only day, or only night, but why not both? I mean, it's not impossible, 
 is it? And it kinda missed some weather options too... at least being able to race in the rain 
 would be cool.
  
  - Interface: Why they took away the My Cars and offline Quick Race options? That was just stupid. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mickythe7
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 23, 2007 2:57 pm PT
Review:  I've been following this game for a while and I think that it has lived up to its standard. So 
 what if its different to the other need for speeds ea just wanted to try something completely different 
 which has worked in different aspects of the game like damage, auto sculpt and the physics of how 
 the cars moves in different ways. I think you just need a lot of skill to play this type of game. 
 The AI isn't that smart because you haven't put them on hard. And the damage is revolution if you 
 can't get all the visuals up get a new computer and while you're at it a steering wheel GREAT GAME 
 EA good different 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrieverXVII
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 23, 2007 2:37 am PT
Review:  Goods:
  
  - I've been reading lots of people saying this game is not optimized well, i disagree. i am running 
 widescreen monitor (1680x1050) resolution in-game, i have an AGP Geforce 7600GS, 2GB ram DDR, and 
 a C2D E6600 2.4Ghz CPU, winXP, and i can run this game smoothly with all car detail on high, smoke, 
 the only things on low are, world shadows, antialiasing, anistrophic and world effects. and runs 
 smoothly. this game obviously has way better car details and textures+bump mapping everywhere, 
 and even till today i still drop my jaw at this games graphics, i just think it's real sometimes. 
 ^.- also im trying to get a job at EA (3D modelling for animation and games course) in Vancouver.
 
  
  - I've also read alot of others complaining that this is'nt like NFS underground or most wanted, 
 but the way i see it is, the Old NFS games in the past weren't like underground/most wanted so 
 why complain now? 
  it's got all the same bells and whistles to it, and adding a highly advanced tuning system to this 
 game is exactly what NFS underground 2 Online was about, but the tuning wasn't in depth at all. 
 this game might not be as entertaining as the others were in some peoples opinions which i kinda 
 agree on, but i never play professional racing games ex) gran turismo, etc. because their boring 
 and repetitive, this game is a little repetitive too but hey, it's a racing game, expect it.
  
  - The announcers are in fact super annoying, but if your not a "noob" theres an easy, options 
 audio voice volume turn it down, so don't complain about announcers, they sound the same in real 
 life, and don't say that the guy sounds young or too punk to be an announcer, oldies that do nascar 
 or F1 announcing would not fit in this type of genre or atmosphere. it would sound way too goofy. 
 
  
  - My overall is, the 5 minutes i played, i didn't really like the game, but the intro video got 
 me super hyped, then after those 5 minutes and getting used to this games whole interface and what 
 it's about, really got me into it, designing, tuning, racing on professional tracks, it was and 
 still is quite different and very fun, NFS has turned into thee best racing games and the only 
 ones i will play, haha. 
  
  
  Bads:
  
  -For some reason in this game and i have yet to find out how to disable it, but your car almost 
 steeres for you, at the beginning of the game it shows green racing lines that determine where 
 to turn and such, but even later when they dissapear your car actually feels like it's being magneted 
 to a drawn line on the course, and has several times messed/crashed me. it turns into corners for 
 you, etc and it gets very annoying until you start to get used to it.
  
  - They don't do the actor cut scenes no more -_-
  i actually found them very cool, direct, and 
 made things make sense a little.
  than an azn named "Ryo" always sitting on his door spinning in circles...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Khoo1992
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 23, 2007 2:07 am PT
Review:  The worst Need For Speed I've ever played since V-Rally... Need For Speed ProStreet is just another 
 unfinished EA products want to rush to the market.
  
  First, the gameplay. The gameplay is fresh but some sort of suck, the road is closed and there 
 are no cops. And why the road is closed at the Autobahn?! Autobahn is busy!!! Is impossible to 
 closed that down and unrealistic after all. The AI is poor, is not like that smart as EA said. 
 The BHP displayed before the race doesn't effect the performance or whatsoever!!!
  
  The sound doesn't feel much different from different cars. The soundtrack is just the same over 
 and over again.
  
  EA tried too hard to compete with Forza and GranTurismo. But Need For Speed formula shouldn't change 
 that much to compete with them. From Underground to Carbon, those are the best selling in their 
 genre. EA should learn from that mistake.
  
  I give a 6.0 because is a Need For Speed game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jurassic1024
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 22, 2007 7:12 pm PT
Review:  Well this being my first gamespot review (long time member tho) , i'll keep it short and point out 
 the performance is horrible, announcers are too loud, and prolly most of all, losing control of 
 car is wayyyy too easy. Turismo and Forza are labelled as Racing SIMS and they control MUCH better. 
 Basically, im going back to NFS Most Wanted, and am gonna assume NFS as a series is on the decline, 
 and wont last much longer. NFS Carbon now Pro Street? Notice how Pro Street has the same fonts 
 as Carbon. May sound like a minor gripe, but i mean come on. Can you say.... running out of ideas? 
 Get it right or dont do it at all EA. And they say piracy is hurting the game industry. So im gonna 
 go with rFactor, and leave Pro Street where it belongs... as a coaster for my drinks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BurningFinger
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 22, 2007 1:37 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of those games you play then not play them anymore. No cops and no free roam makes 
 this game suck. What sucks more is being called Ryan Cooper. Many of the cars are the same as previous 
 need for speeds. The songs suck terribly. You here them over and over and over until your sick of 
 it. Customizing in this game is neater since you can make it aerodynamic and increase its top speed. Totaling 
 the car can get on your nerves. The graphics are good but not great. Beating this game takes time. The 
 announcer is a bothersome person. Each time it's talking about you he says your full name Ryan Cooper. I 
 would recommend this game to serious need for speed fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rampagesl2
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 25, 2007 12:33 am PT
Review:  I stand by my review but, if you turn off the voice audio, the game has the potential to grow on 
 a die hard NFS fan. Some are saying it's old school and now, with some more time with the game 
 sans voice, I'm starting to lean the same way. Maybe it's because the old games had no to little 
 voice audio. 
  
  I love NFS games, ProStreet is not a NFS game. The announcer is annoying, Ryan Cooper is a name 
 that no one will ever want to hear again after playing this game for an hour. The menu navigation 
 is terrible and confusing, the AI is not very good, graphics are OK if you have the $$$ dumped 
 in your hardware, anyone who likes this game will loose there mind if they play any other NFS title. 
 The cuts scenes suck and beg to be skipped by, in fact, I find that a lot of the game I want to 
 skip by, like the mini game "heat up your tires". The tuning option of your car makes no performance 
 difference unless you want less performance. Did I mention that the announcer needs to have his 
 vocal cords tied to the back of a Mustang and dragged around the track a few times.
  
  Seriously, this game HAD potential but, the over the top, in your face, are you cool enough factor 
 is WAY over done. I find myself mashing buttons in an effort to "make it stop, lets move on, enough 
 already, shut up, lets just race" because at least that has some merit. 
  
  EA, the next one, and there better be one, will have open courses, cop chases, less in your face 
 'tude and a smooth, stoic hero in a black leather jacket with a dry, curt sense of humor. Tuning 
 should do something other than make the car run like crap and back off with the advertising. Hell, 
 go retro and race old cars, go future and race future cars or go all time traveler and race a supped 
 up Toyota around a rack next to Indy cars of the '50s. Just don't give me this urban slang "in 
 yo face sucka", "he dissed you, go clock him" junk that is too cheesy to swallow. You should not 
 cringe when the hero's name is said and should not feel embarrassed about the attitude of the characters. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tawess
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 4:37 pm PT
Review:  Over the years i have watched the NFS series move from racing luxury cars to being chased in luxury 
 cars to take on the street scene. And while the flirt with the Street scene was fun in it's own 
 way i have never felt it was some sort of paramount to set as the ultimate goal. With ProStreet 
 it once again moves back to it's roots as a racing game. 
  
  I have geard people complain about advertising in the game but i can honestly say i never see them, 
 or atleast i never realy reflect over them so for me it is not a big deal. After all the first 
 NFS had the logo of a car magazine (road & track i belive it was) on the nox and in the game (if 
 my memory is not incorrect) 
  
  As for the actual gameplay... Well i want to say it is the best ever but it is not. i can not realy 
 bring myself play for an extended period of time, it is just to repetative. I do see hope i it 
 tho if they take another step forward in the next game. And after the mess that was Carbon this 
 game is a warm blanket for me. 
  
  Grip is fun and the new damage system adds that extra touch when you slam in to the side of an 
 opponent. To bad the tracks are abit dull. 
  
  Drift is fun and atleast a bit challenging this time around. Again the damagesystem makes it painful 
 to miss and hit the wall. 
  
  Drag One thing above all... .. . No More Traffic. Not mutch else to say... it is drag racing. 
 
  
  Speed events are fun due to the mayhem factor. 
  
  On-Line. Well it is a big step forward from Carbon, a games that had sutch a bad online feature 
 it made grown men cry. Given that my internet connection is abit choppy right now i have not tested 
 it fully yet but it looks promesing. 
  
  Cars and the modifying of them are neat and tidy, not to over the top but enough to make my car 
 feel like mine. 
  
  So to sum it up 
  
  + less silly story
  + more racing
  + less bling and wannabe-gansters 
  + a online mode that works
  
  - still to mutch story 
 
  - the DJ's 
  - a bit dull 
  - still not Motorcity Online
  
  A good game without that extra spice to make it a grand slam 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crembo
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 21, 2007 7:31 am PT
Review:  First impression:
  Horrible menu even menu. It suppose to be "new" or something? It's just uncomfortable.
  Story:
 
  Story? Yeah right. NFS was diffrent than other racing games , that it had a STORY. Now it's only 
 racing (although there's racing games with no story and are fun.)
  Graphics:
  The graphics are great , the damage is implanted very well. But... wait , it's not just "but" ... 
 it's "BUT". The game is optimized like hell. I mean , all options at lowest beside car detail at 
 medium @ 1680x1050 and I'm getting 10-15 FPS.
  Now WHAT THE HECK? I mean , I have 1950Pro which should be more than enough for NFS! Hell.
  Sound:
 
  I didn't hear the music in the game. I mean it sometimes turns on.. But you can't hear it , even 
 though music slider is on 100%. Engine sound is basicly the same for all the cars. Sad.
  Control:
  At last , EA made realistic control. Not like in the other series , you can take a 
 turn driving 200 km/h and don't hit anything. But... The brakes. I mean , when I press the brakes 
 , it stop and I can't turn to the side , it just doesn't let me.. So I have to use the hand brakes 
 to drift the corner.. Even more sad.
  
  Conclusion:
  EA destroyed the whole series. I mean , NFS was about the story (at least for me) , not only racing. 
 Well , I hope the next NFS won't be any like this one. 
  I give it a 4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joao_xiko
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 6:56 am PT
Review:  EA tried to make things change a bit, failed completely. One of the good things Need for Speed 
 Series always had is the good and fun controls of the car....... Pro Street is disgusting in that 
 point,....... but the multiplayer online was improved. The advertising ingame is reaaallly excessive. 
 Better if this NFS remained in Carbon's style......... Im still having real pleasure playing Carbon.... 
 but not with this game.
  
  Classification (0-10) :
  Gameplay : 4.4 - Horrible car control. Cant surprise you.
  
  Graphics : 6.3 - Comparing to 
 games that were released recently it has average graphics.
  
  Duration : 8.0 - Good duration because of great multiplayer.
  
  Audio : 8.0 - Strong combination 
 of good artists and songs.
  
  Overall : 
::::::

::::::
UserName: catremihut
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 3:03 am PT
Review:  the earlier versions of nfs (since underground) tried to have a story which was something new, 
 gave the game a certain distinction. this version gives u a character only with a name but nothing 
 more.
  the fact that they encourage to take races out of the street and put them in some kind of tournaments 
 is noble, but we all know that is not going to happen (if only because it takes out the thrill 
 of being caught) , i was expecting them to keep the line of a story race game and leave the city 
 races.
  the control i think its better and and i might say graphics to (the smoke and all that) . the damage 
 system its cool, it was the thing nfs was missing from the beginning.
  So for a race game its nice, but from what nfs used us till now I think it is under expectations. 
 Sry guys! good work on graphics and control, but go back on game play because its boring. put back 
 the 5.0. or something. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reniergerber_old
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 10:03 pm PT
Review:  What NFS has done by taking away a free roam world, is that instead of a game like TDU trying to 
 be take them on, they are trying to take on games like Race WTCC, GTR, Gran Turismo & PGR and they 
 fall short. In turn if the follow up to TDU can improve on their story line, they will absolutely 
 steal NFS market share, and in going against GT & PGR, Pro Street falls way short. Unless you are 
 running a "Super Computer" you will not be able to enjoy Pro Street's full potential, and GT & 
 PGR both have better layouts, handling and game play. This is the problem with NFS Pro Street. 
 NFS is not stunning, but by now, this is what you should expect of the franchise. They have had 
 enough attempts at this, that you expect nothing less but a stunning game. As a racing game, which 
 this is now, it is o. k., not great. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ssratt
Rating: 4.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 8:47 pm PT
Review:  Quite possibly the worst in the series, I have been playing this series since the original, and 
 all we have here is a track racer that has been done to death by others.
  I feel really sorry for those on the console side who pick it up since they already have MUCH better 
 track games out there than this drivel.
  Even on the PC side, just getting to a race takes FOREVER, one or 2 buttons is ok, but the way 
 this winds you around will make you car sick.
  Controls, default settings makes you feel like someone jammed a stick through the steering column 
 making even a wide turn an adventure.
  
  The Series USED to be about new locales, new cars and racing through the country (Porsche = best 
 ever) as well as trying NOT to get busted by the cops.
  Going to ricers I could take knowing the market, but this is just dreck
  If I want a track game 
 I have Dirt, Nascar (HELLO EA??) and many others for my PC.
  
  BTWY: what is the use of entering a name, especially offline if it has one of it's own??
  
 
  Pro- pretty graphics
  
  Con-... see above 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pollob13
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 8:01 pm PT
Review:  Actually I can't believe that EA made this type of racing game which really broke my heart as a 
 NFS fan. Where is racing game like MOST WANTED and CARBON. I think EA should not release this series 
 every year, they should take some time to release the best one. After some time this game feels 
 bore. The story is not interesting. The cops are absent. Without the cops racing game does not 
 look excited. NFS means somethings special to NFS fans. I don't play other racing game than the 
 NFS. So when I got NFS Pro Street I was very excited about this. At the end I felt no good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gabibuton
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 2:21 pm PT
Review:  Doesn't feel as "complete" is realy SUCK's SUCK's SUCK's SUCK's SUCK's .is complete ? woow! ........... 
 need for what??? speed? graphics? Test Drive Unlimited, GTR2 ...     top cars games .....
  
  
  Doesn't feel as "complete" is realy SUCK's SUCK's SUCK's SUCK's SUCK's .is complete ? woow! 
 ........... need for what??? speed? graphics? Test Drive Unlimited, GTR2 ...     top cars games 
 .....
  
  
  
  Doesn't feel as "complete" is realy SUCK's SUCK's SUCK's SUCK's SUCK's .is complete ? woow! ........... 
 need for what??? speed? graphics? Test Drive Unlimited, GTR2 ...     top cars games .....
  
  
  
  Doesn't feel as "complete" is realy SUCK's SUCK's SUCK's SUCK's SUCK's .is complete 
 ? woow! ........... need for what??? speed? graphics? Test Drive Unlimited, GTR2 ...     top cars 
 games .....
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HAMODA
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 10:16 am PT
Review:  Well those who played previous NFS might be disapointed You cant hit stuff and walk away scott 
 free. Your cash will be hard to earn on this one and you cant just buy any cars you have to weight 
 the pros and cons of buying certain cars. AI dont cheat on this one the upgrades you put in the 
 card really make the diff if you lose or win the race.
  
  My major annoyance is the race select menu hard to see what is selected and navigate thru it but 
 not the worst I've seen.
  
  Love it think its more fun and challenging than Carbon. Skills are rewarded and not so much luck 
 is needed as in carbon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cercel
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2007 8:10 am PT
Review:  ... nothing more than that...
  the best in the series and i hope they will bring more in the next game of nfs.
  I loved the 
 police but it's ok like this also.
  The next game will be more than 10+ on a rate from 1 to 10.
  They wil probably have pro street 
 races with MW police and Carbon customization + more. 
  I love this game for the customization options and also the fast and unpredictible races.
  Good 
 luck. 
  
  PS.: more words neede :D m m m m asd sadmas fd sa sad a sd ewfd esa fr g e hg r e 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frg2005
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 20, 2007 7:10 am PT
Review:  With ProStreet EA tried to do something new with the franchise and they did it well. The game is 
 very different from previous installments in the series and you have to judge it on its own.
  Sure, there are no cop races, no free roam mode, but graphics are awesome and the "race day" system 
 is different but nice.
  The cars look great and the damage model adds to that. The world is highly detailed and lighting 
 effects are very cool. Of course you have to pay in performance but I didn't have any problem with 
 that, nor any crashes either.
  Soundtrack is larger than previous NFS games' but it's somewhat less varied. Lots of Junkie XL 
 tracks!
  ProStreet is a great racing game any car fan will really enjoy and the PC version looks great if 
 your rig can handle it.
  Still, Most Wanted is probably the best rendition in the series, IMHO. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 102839
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 20, 2007 4:43 am PT
Review:  The makers of EA did it again... And again.... and again.
  Making another Need for Speed game!! Woop ti dooo... Cool 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IVIurd0k
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 20, 2007 12:34 am PT
Review:  First off. I think EA saw the success of Forza and Forza two and thought they could pull it off. 
 Unfortunately all they do is see one aspect that's popular, try to capitalize on it, and then ignore 
 the rest. Since the main 'street scene' right now is 240 drifting I'll begin with that. 
  
  In the previous game, as unrealistic as it may have been, was fairly fun. Lot's of drifting courses 
 and the 'all too awesome mad tyte yo' 240 and silvia cars made it all the more fun. Unfortunately 
 for pro street, drifting was ignored. It screams horror. The actual drifting in the game is nowhere 
 near the way it's portrayed on the commercials. It's so off that I believe customers should be 
 allowed to sue EA for false advertisement. Most people know the gameplay isn't going to be exact 
 as a commercial advertises but looking back you almost want to say, 'holy shit what game are THEY 
 playing?' It's that different.
  
  Like the main review says, there is no real world roaming, so all there is to do is race. After 
 awhile it seems repetitive. It seems like the same course over and over again just faster more 
 graphic and decal whored up cars. 
  
  The main thing that really sets this NFS aside from the rest is the fact that damage actually does 
 something for once. It just makes you pull out your, what seems like, endless supply of repair 
 cards to fix the damage to your vehicle. 
  
  AI is halfway retarded. They break when they don't need to. And when you're behind two or three 
 cars this poses a problem. The sequence of these events have a feel of a rigged nascar race. It 
 gives the chance of the slower cars to catch up and take you over in order to create an even bigger 
 wall of 'stop - go' computer cars for you to run into.
  
  The buying of parts is a little unnecessary. It was a sad attempt to copy the Forza franchise and 
 it was a failure because there is no such thing as a 47 thousand dollar acura engine for an integra, 
 etc. 
  
  One small gain from this game is the fact that you have quite a bit of control over the setup of 
 the cars parts. But then again, that's about the only thing.
  
  I strongly suggest not buying this game. It feels like all you do is race the same courses over 
 and over again in a futile attempt to become the 'fast and furious street racer of all time'. Get 
 Call of Duty 4 instead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dbzakj
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 19, 2007 11:21 pm PT
Review:  First off I have to say that I agree with 90% of the gamespot's review, everything they say is 
 true. I knocked off .5 pts because of one thing I disagree with. That's the drifting; it's the 
 worst thing I've ever had to play in a racing game. Drifting isn't supposed to be easy, but it's 
 not supposed to put your car on ice and let you go! Seriously, lets say you come to a FULL STOP, 
 try starting up again, its hard just to get going in a straight line without hitting something 
 or going out of bounds. While I'll admit that the Carbon drifting was just too easy, this is just 
 ludacris. I'd just prefer a Most Wanted 2. The first had everything required except realism I suppose. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Midde
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 19, 2007 11:15 pm PT
Review:  For one thing I don't like that they left out some of the "light trees" when doing drag races, 
 for some reason they ain't there on some locations and that suck, now its all about luck and no 
 skill.
  Second is when racing against bots (solo) and following the racing line (green line) , the bots 
 seems to drive faster by not following the racing line, for example in a curve, they just pass 
 you on the outside.
  And third, they removed Free Roam, everything is so "staged", there is no streets to practice on 
 unless you take your cars to any of the "battle grounds", and it takes away some of the feelings 
 of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: biz_dude
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2007 10:40 pm PT
Review:  well read a few fans.
  
  racing games need the story mode?
  
  hmm i dun think need it. because racing just for racing why need story mode.
  
  i play so much 
 nfs. i dont even bother the story mode. because and anyway the story mode just a small talks so 
 doesn't really make a whole alot of fun.
  
  prostreet the best series for all nfs.
  
  yes indeed, finally the NFS is more realistics, car and racing in event. more legal feelings. and 
 the gameplay totally really close to realitics. that is the best news. no more cops chasing like 
 teachin the kids how to avoiding the police while u speeding in ur real life and show off with 
 ur cool style in the undergroudn street. but all in event like prostreet u can do all the show 
 off because is a legal race.
  
  nothing to said about this game. the best of the best for all the NFS. worth buying and spend more 
 time.
  
  and yea the worst is the Dj, keep annoying with the talk, like repeat and repeating again LOL but 
 ignore him that the best.
  and the cars is much more then all the nfs series. that is good yes most of the car already have 
 it the previous but in the real world racing car is just this a few. so nth to said awesome :)
 
  
  but why cardilac is in there. i tot is luxury LOL. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kwentyne
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 19, 2007 8:05 pm PT
Review:  The game has come much closer to being a simulation and in a controlled environment. I think it 
 is a good concept.
  
  Yes back in the day the cop chases were fun. I enjoyed it. After the last couple of yrs I am happy 
 to see that Need For Speed is back on the race track, looking good and playing just the same. At 
 times an abrupt change will lead to alot of unrest and so forth. After playing the game it will 
 grow on you. Real racing fans will appreciate this installment of the game with open arms. My only 
 real complaint is the ability in the game to have a 500hp 240sx run 7secs in a 1/4 mile drag race 
 which for the most part is impossible in a real world situation.
  
  I have a rather capable gaming machine. Quad core, 8800gts, enough ram and the works. The game 
 runs rather impressively. If anyone wants to see this game the way it should be played these are 
 lines along which your pc must follow. 
  
  All in all the game is a very good simulation experience to a certain extent. If you are a die 
 hard race/driving/driving simulation fan you should pick this one up today!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sl4y3rx69
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 19, 2007 11:58 am PT
Review:  Brilliant, Just plain brilliant. The realism in the game is outstanding. The story line lacks a 
 little luster, But that's just a small flaw. I like the fact that EA has decided to go with a more 
 realistic approach to racing, Seeing as 200MPH street races rarely happen, If ever. Car physics 
 are realistic. You actually feel like you're in the game. Whether you drive around in Automatic 
 mode or manual clutch, The shifts sound realistic. Graphics are superb. Great soundtrack. Their 
 attention to detail is wonderful, How you can actually hear the difference in turbo kits, engine 
 mods, etc. The only real complaint I have about the game is that the announcer gets annoying. =P 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gokazz
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2007 11:30 am PT
Review:  ok i liked it. it is very realistic car damage, no n2o auto refill, wide selection of cars, nice graphics. Im 
 not happy about these: high cpu requirments, no free roam. But hey still a good game, i like it how 
 they remade the drags. Tire heating, fully manual gear switching at start, also i liked the grips 
 u can be totaled there too! i like it but the multi player is just not right! no lan mode only internetand 
 that boring "connecting to ea. com" thing! comon cant we just connect to the server and play do we 
 really need those ranks? its just a game (if we get some $$$ then i take those words back!) but still 
 its a good game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pcmembers
Rating: 2
Date: Dec 1, 2007 7:11 am PT
Review:  I think this is just a cruel joke . after underground II and most wanted I was looking forward 
 for revolutionary game. EA was always ahead of it's time but this time I think it will lose all 
 he worked on during these years . If they don't want to lose their market and also costumers faith 
 they better do something fast. like announcing something like thisWe were just joking and in 
 next week we will release The real game". 
  
  I myself always try to enjoy games even if they are not what I 'm expecting. But believe me ,I tried 
 to get use to this good for nothing game but I feel sick by even doing one lap. 
  
  Game story = -7
  graphic = -4
  sound = 1
  effects = 3
  addiction = he he , kidding ? right 
 !
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RicZilla
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 9:28 pm PT
Review:  Well those who played previous NFS might be disapointed You cant hit stuff and walk away scott 
 free. Your cash will be hard to earn on this one and you cant just buy any cars you have to weight 
 the pros and cons of buying certain cars. AI dont cheat on this one the upgrades you put in the 
 card really make the diff if you lose or win the race.
  
  My major annoyance is the race select menu hard to see what is selected and navigate thru it but 
 not the worst I've seen. 
  
  Love it think its more fun and challenging than Carbon. Skils are rewarded and not so much luck 
 is nedded as in carbon.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HikerDK
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 18, 2007 3:28 pm PT
Review:  Ok, so I started up the game some days ago now. The game starts you off in the most ugly Nissan 
 I've ever seen, with my own former Nissan being the exception to that... at least this one isn't 
 coated in rust. Now don't let that scare you away, you'll get plenty of opportunity to change that 
 very soon after that start. 
  
  The racing itself, has improved alot compared to the previous NFS releases. I found that the cars 
 handle more realistically, no more U-turns at 100 MPH. The tension you get from taking it slow 
 in a corner is quite thrilling actually. And also the fact that damage comes into play, and that 
 you have to pay for repairs. That brings back NFS: Porsche Challenge nostalgia for me. You actually 
 have to use the brakes now and then! No more completely reckless driving, using the boards for 
 fast cornering (unless you don't mind paying for it after every race) . There's 2 means of repairing 
 a banged up car, 1) Buy Repair markers (fairly cheap) , 2) Use Cash. Depending on how much the repair 
 costs runs up, you can choose cash, if it's only a few hundred bucks, or to use a card, which is 
 a few thousand.
  
  All upgrades are available to begin with. Performance parts, body parts, rims, colors, candy paint, 
 pearlescent paint, all the cool stuff. No more unlocking, and not being happy about the looks of 
 your car, all you have to do is, have a wallet big enough for it. Well, all except the cars. You 
 unlock those, but it's fairly quick to do so.
  
  There's 50+ cars available in the game, which I don't think is enough. They range from 80's Toyota 
 Corolla's, 60's American muscle cars, a Lamborghini and prototype import cars. There's a wide array 
 of selection available, though personally, I would've liked a few more. Where's the ultra exotic 
 Ferrari's? The game lacks the usual overflow of useless cars. In NFS Underground 2, I remember 
 buying a H2, tuning it like a bad year... ok admitted, the car didn't drive well at all, but I 
 could drive it.
  
  The tuning part of the game is decent, certainly better than the Most Wanted and Carbon series, 
 and better than Underground too, not much, but a little. You can change pretty much any part of 
 the suspension you'd like. Toe-in, camber, Caster. And how you set your springs and shocks, actually 
 affect how well you'll do in this map, compared to that one. Some maps have short stretches, and 
 tons of sharp corners, while some may have soft corners and long stretches. In those maps it's 
 all live or die, if you change the drive train and handling to accommodate this. Granted I would've 
 liked some better explanations, and less cryptic descriptions on the different settings. I also 
 wouldn't mind being able to see the amount of psi (bars in Europe) my turbo charger actually is 
 forcing into the intake, instead of a yellow going from left to right on a black bar. The tuning 
 adds a new dimension, but still leaves alot to miss.
  
  There's different kinds of races. There's basically 4 different types: 
  Grip: Lap races, go 
 around a track and be the first or the fastest. 
  Drag: Pedal to the metal!!
  Drift: Force your car into a high-speed sideways slide and win by earning the most points.
  Speed: 
 Long straights at very high speed.
  
  Now in these 4 races, there's again, different kinds of racing. You have the normal 1/4 mile drag 
 race and there's 1/2 mile drag race. But it's basically the same in all the 4 races, just a slight 
 variation.
  
  The storyline is pretty weak, but I have to say they do a good job of making you dislike the game's 
 "Badguy" in it, but that's basically it. MAJOR SPOILER::::: Without ruining too much, some guy 
 says you blow at racing.... that's it. Wow, sorry if I ruined the surprise.
  
  In order to actually feel your car is getting powerful, you have to put in a few hours of gameplay, 
 which is way too slow (maybe it's just me that's slow) , but once you can afford some Stage 3 performance 
 upgrades (doesn't take that long on the first set of cars but for the cars you get later, it's 
 a b***h) , you start liking the engine roars and the powerslides you put yourself into (if it's 
 a RWD) almost throwing you off track, if you're not a little careful on the throttle.
  
  All in all, this game is good entertainment, and brings a bit (just a bit) , fresh air to the racing-genre. 
 The user interface of the game is as always slightly annoying, lacking inspiration, the graphics 
 are pretty killer even on a 7600GT, they're not "Whoa!", but good looking vs. performance demands. 
 The car designs are projected nicely, the soundside, is ok, but lacks a little more  
 effect and minor things like that... Oh and the speakers that comments the track days, is... well 
 suffice it to say, I've been less annoyed by Mom and Dad as a teenager, than I have with speakers 
 as an adult. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fahed_abo_nada
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 1:28 pm PT
Review:  the game got allot of attention and gamers waited to have the next edition of the well known need 
 for speed series but the disappointment was bigger than the excitement when you test the game and 
 see how it is ill designed. i hope they find a quick fix from the step-back. i think it will be 
 along time before we will see a good racing game that really push you to the limit and test your 
 skills. the weak point of the game is mainly the lack of an interesting story that attract the 
 player to the game. second, the game is very long and it will take you a good amount of time to 
 reach a level where you can really enjoy the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ddealer
Rating: 2
Date: Nov 18, 2007 12:45 pm PT
Review:  I always can feel within the first 10 minutes if a game is good. This game is worst so far. graphics 
 are ok. Sound is annoying and controls are worst ever. Even need for speed hot persuit has better 
 controls. All others need for speeds are much better. Best was nfs Underground. After that every 
 release was a little bit worser. Prostreet worst game i've ever played. It feels like i am not 
 playing nfs. The game doesn't interest me at all because of the controls. Cheap controls. Totaly 
 not realistic. Game itselfs is also to easy. Race tracks are not part of nfs. Why do you (EA) have 
 to put them in. Arcade element is gone. Dont buy it's not worth your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marvelous211
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 12:25 pm PT
Review:  The game itself isn't too different from Most Wanted or Carbon except EA took out the the city 
 where you can drive around. No more night driving or cops chasing you. It has all the basics like 
 Regular races, Speed Trap, Drift, Drag, and speed racing.
  
  Cars can be upgraded and detailed to your liking just like the last NFS series. The graphics upgrade 
 wasn't too dramatic but I thought it looked much better than the last. The music is always nice. 
 Either people are going to hate the change or they are going to love it either way.
  
  I would give this game a 8.5 stars because there aren't too many good arcade racers for the PC 
 like the NFS series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chickity_China
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 12:24 pm PT
Review:  Ok, like I always do, I'll start off with the game's flaws. Simply put, Need for Speed Prostreet 
 just doesn't feel like a complete package. What made the other NFS games so compelling was the 
 fact that they were pretty much the only good racing games with a plot. In Prostreet, the plot 
 is almost nonexistent which demotes NFS to the level of other mediocre racing games. Also missing, 
 like GameSpot mentioned, are cop chases. I didn't miss those too much however.
  
  Now, of course that can be made up by excellent racing dynamics, lots of cars, cool tunability, 
 and great multiplayer. However, ProStreet doesn't really deliver in any of those areas. The handling 
 feels floaty. Not once did I feel like I was actually burning rubber on concrete. There are plenty 
 of cars, but none of them feel like they represent the real deal. My sooped up Lambo handles like 
 a hearse and the WRX feels like a Beetle....
  
  The tunability of the cars also feels lacking. The previews and videos made the tuning function 
 seem really special, and all, and you can share your blueprints online. But in actuality, its pretty 
 much the same as NFS Carbon and the online sharing isn't that cool either. What's the point? I 
 have no creativity so I wanna copy your car? Why not just show it off in a race?
  
  Speaking of Multiplayer races... um... yea.... I forgot, what was I gonna say? Nevermind, nothing 
 special anyways.
  
  The graphics aren't the best either. They hardly feel like an improvement over NFS Carbon and aren't 
 much of anything compared to the graphics of DiRT and the like. Sound is OK. But the worst part 
 of the sound is the voice acting. Ugh, I wanted to punch my speakers....
  
  Another problem that seems to be bugging people are the in game advertisements. They never bothered 
 me because when I'm trying to deal with grabbing the clutch, shifting down, and e-braking into 
 a controlled drift while overtaking the dude in 1st, I don't really notice the 200ft long Castrol 
 Syntec billboard zipping past. And plus, lots of real life race tracks are littered with ads, so 
 just think of it as... adding to the realism.
  
  Overall, the Need for Speed Prostreet is an uninspired racing game with too many missing and poorly 
 executed features. If you're a NFS fan like me, then go ahead, get the game, and youll probably 
 still wind up having some fun with it. But if not, then there's plenty of other great racers out 
 there like Prostreet's predecessor, NFS Carbon, and DiRT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ddomdom
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 2:59 am PT
Review:  I played nfs from the first one. I think prostreet may not be the best one, but surely not the 
 worst.
  Some may say the control becomes more difficult. But i think it's just about right. It's not as 
 hard as real simulation racing game. And, it's much better than those in carbon & undergd, which 
 i don't need any brakes. Yes, it's between simulation and arcade, so it may not be acceptable to 
 some players.
  The graphics is improved, and it's one of the best in racing games. I love the smokes!
  The new 
 damage system is great, which makes the game more realistic and difficult.
  I am a little bit disappointed on the career mode, which is quite dull. And i don't see why one 
 car can only be belongs to one type of racing. This is non-sense, and, makes you always in short 
 of money.
  Time to get back to the game and have fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darksaw66699942
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 17, 2007 10:41 pm PT
Review:  I don't know why they are so many winers about this game. yes the controls of the cars is a little 
 different. But still a little unrealistic. Cars in the game are not too bad i would have added 
 a few like the DB9 or DBS. never any Ferrari in the need for speed games anymore. kind of said. 
 the new type of drag is pretty cool. including the wheelie races. also upgrading is faster. make 
 it nice. so if you like to drags more than grip races then you can spend all your money in that 
 drag car and have it maxed out. those are the pros. the cons i don't like the new nos system. the 
 booster tanks are kind of weak. the drift racing is a bit of a pain. maybe is was just the cars 
 i was using. 911 Porsche. I had it maxed out tuned well but still had a lot of trouble with last 
 boss. I would not agree with the others in saying need for speed has started down hill. yes it 
 could use more work. customizing should be improved a little more options. and again more cars! 
 some not in there that should not be left out. if your not sure in buying then ask yourself. did 
 you like the other one's? if you say yes give it a shot. only 40 bucks and if you suck at it get 
 the trainer then. i did it without it but hey some people don't like a challenge. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bruca
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 8:56 pm PT
Review:  I was eager in getting this game a few months ago and now that i have it... im very disappointed 
 by it. Sure the graphics are very nice and the new additions and minigames but i don't feel like 
 racing. Cars are very unbalanced, and the worst thing is that the handling SUCKS!... have to take 
 turns at 40mph cause the damn thing won't drift... the speed feeling is not there at all. This 
 is copying GTR2 and Test Drive in a way... in a very bad way. As i said before... graphics don't 
 make a game GOOD and worth playing... VERY DISAPPOINTED EA! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hjteq
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 4:58 pm PT
Review:  I like the game but its buggy nature doesn't allow me to fully enjoy it. I feel that with out a 
 steering wheel the cars are too responsive and will give the player too much to soon. Even with 
 the steering wheel it's too responsive but far better. I wish that there were settings implemented 
 that allow for personalized user sensitivity settings for the controls. 
  
  It's addictive and graphically pleasing with a good message to take racing off the streets. In 
 some ways it's better than Gran Turismo 4 but not in physics. I hope EA addresses some of these 
 issues.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rkayzer
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 10:14 am PT
Review:  worst NFS in the series! and the Deception of the year.... Its real disappointment..... i love 
 the others NFS but this......... God sabe EA.... The handling sucks BIG TIME. You have to be an car 
 expert or something equivalent to do this game running with a car that you have easily modified 
 in the previous versions. The game play is.... i can't describe it... Ea tried to reintroduce the 
 old school type of game play, something between simulation and arcade, the result.... horrible gameplay, 
 when you're driving the golf or the chevy kobalt it feels like you're driving a truck. The graphics 
 are acceptable, almost the same as nfs carbon's, sadly EA didn't make a new Engine for por-street, 
 they just used the old one present on underground 2, most wanted and carbon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raiedhasan
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 9:03 am PT
Review:  OK. Great graphic. Great atmosphere. Great commentating. And oh yeah, the chix beside the car is 
 the best of the series. Nice ideas for racing. At least EA Games have done a great job to show 
 those crazy races down the street that theres something called race track where you can drive safely. 
 But then? Cars don't take turns, you have to slow down to some 20 to get a proper turn. Is that 
 a racing game then? Good to make realistic but there should be some spice of fast race. The handling 
 sucks BIG TIME. Plus its good to have options but THIS MUCH? You have to be an car expert or something 
 equivalent to do this game running with a car that you have easily modified in the previous versions. 
 Overall, nice graphic, nice idea but WORST handling which just wasted the mood of racing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomahack
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 17, 2007 5:16 am PT
Review:  PROS:
  
  Nice game concept, even if the game stay too much arcade again, it worth the try.
  EA announce 
 4 race modes, but you have more than that..
  
  You have Drag, Drift, Grip and Speed, but under each of theses classes, during certain of your 
 race days, you can do the following depending of your career progress
  
  Wheelie Competitions -  Drag 
  Pure Drag -  Drag
  Time attack (fastest lap) -  Grip
  Simple 
 2-3 laps race -  Grip
  Fastest sections -  Grip
  Speed Run -  Speed
  Fastest total speed -  Speed
  And, Pure Drifts.
  
  Everytime you doing a race, you can upload 
 your shadow car to EA nations and btw save your score online to be rated in the Leaderboard accessible 
 via the game, and via the website.
  
  The gameplay is good, damage effects is greatest of the series
  Lots of customizations, decals, 
 vinyls, the wind effect is good, even if it need some work.
  The Autosculpt is good. In short, you can definatly customize your ride as you wish. You can buy 
 Performance Package or Stability package or even buy every single piece itself.
  
  
  
  
  CONS:
  
  Upgrades are very badly classified. You have 3 or 4 parts each Stages..
  Engine 
 upgrades for example..
  Stage 1 - Competitions Cams - 12,000$
  Stage 1 - Steel Push rods - 12,000$
  Stage 1 - Performance Distributor - 12,000$
  Stage 2 - 
 Very mad Intake manifold - 24,000$
  Stage 2 - etc.. etc..
  Stage 3 - etc.. etc...
  (Example)
  
  But, you CAN'T buy 3 items of the same stage !!!! You only can apply 1 upgrade 
 per categories (Engine, drivetrain, suspension..)
  Every parts worth the same power ratings in his Stage. And you can only select one.
  
  
  
 Online multiplayer seems to be buggy right now, it works 1/5 you must be patient.
  The game is still a bit too much arcade. When you drive with rear-car camera (2 of them) , even if 
 your pushing to 100 mph, you have the impressions to go 50. But if you put on the Hood camera or 
 the full front , its still much better. For myself, i keep the hood camera, to get a feeling and 
 see the hood become damaged when crashing :-)
  
  
  Well, final comment is, if you LOVED underground, you'll LIKE pro street.
  Keep the fact that, 
 its not a sequel to underground, but maybe that they would have to based on it.
  
  Bring back Underground, as online as is much Pro Street, then you will have the perfect game :) 
 I could not say better.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: canerpense
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 17, 2007 4:20 am PT
Review:  They launched the best NFS game to date. At the "King" difficulty and with the amazing NFS 1-2-3-4-5-6 
 series atmosphere back again; this game ROCKS!!!
  Tons of car, lots of events, thousands of upgrades and most of all DRAG racing. 
  
  They launched 
 the best NFS game to date. At the "King" difficulty and with the amazing NFS 1-2-3-4-5-6 series 
 atmosphere back again; this game ROCKS!!!
  Tons of car, lots of events, thousands of upgrades and most of all DRAG racing. 
  
  They launched 
 the best NFS game to date. At the "King" difficulty and with the amazing NFS 1-2-3-4-5-6 series 
 atmosphere back again; this game ROCKS!!!
  Tons of car, lots of events, thousands of upgrades and most of all DRAG racing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Al3x_n90
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 3:49 am PT
Review:  Ok, i'm a hardcore NFS fan. I played every nfs that came on the market and liked it, now nfs pro 
 street was released, i was so anxious, and when i played it.... total disappointment...
  Ok let me talk about the good stuff.
  There are a lot of cars, and it sort of goes back to the 
 old need for speed-s like nfs underground, or underground 2, so its a pleasant reminder of the 
 past.
  Ok, now here comes the bad stuff. 
  The thing that pissed me off the most was that the game doesn't have free roam... its kinda lame 
 without it.
  The game play is.... i can't describe it... Ea tried to reintroduce the old school type of game play, 
 something between simulation and arcade, the result.... horrible gameplay, when you're driving the 
 golf or the chevy kobalt it feels like you're driving a truck.
  The graphics are acceptable, almost the same as nfs carbon's, sadly EA didn't make a new Engine 
 for por-street, they just used the old one present on underground 2, most wanted and carbon.
  The car class thing is.... well in my opinion its stupid, the game determines which of your cars 
 you should use on whatever type of race....
  The tracks are primitive, and more suited to a game like race or gtr.
  The conclusion: The game 
 was made carelessly and it will be remembered by most nfs fans as a disaster. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lt_shazaam
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 2:19 am PT
Review:  Good gfx, more cars, and new event types: speed challenges, wheelies and  mile drags. 
  The BAD: boring races, worst control ever, disappointing damage, bad slow motion when crashing, 
 reaaally bad slow motion, I mean... frustrating (you have to wait about 10 seconds until the cars 
 stops moving) , NO storyline (everything keeps repeating) , low on cash (can't buy the cars you want) , 
 NOT that REALISTIC: I don't think you can tune up a $ 40k cars to 900 BHP to beat the heck out 
 of an $ 700k Pagani Zonda ( ~650 bhp) . That always was a nfs frustration, expansive cars less powerful 
 than a tuned junk car. The user interface is also boring, could have been something for Win95.
 
  And some things just aren't right: 
  1. I won several grips with nissan240 ( ~140 bhp) against 600bhp cars but when I bought a new skyline 
 gt-r ( tuned to 650 bhp) they gave me a ~750bhp opponents and lost my first race .
  2. My skyline was 60k and the level 3 parts ~180k and raised the power from ~450 to ~650, but a 
 cheaper ~240 bhp lancer evo can be tuned up to ~880 bhp. How is that possible? 
  Difficulty: frustrating. some races can be won with no sweat, but other.. NOT, maybe in a few hours. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aguatacaluseo
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 17, 2007 12:00 am PT
Review:  finally not some crazy mAd Dub street racing wannabe!!! Best gfx for an EA racing game, and a lot 
 more real street raing game!!! yeah its not the best there is, but is the best there is for EA 
 so it deserves a 10 from me. I was really disappointed when they stop making real racing games 
 with damage and real upgrades like NFS4 and Porsche (not tyres that dont grip and turbo that didn't 
 blow) ... they where the best until this one. it seems like theyre really trying to move Street 
 racing games to reality from my point of view, I was a street racer in my country and I know first 
 hand how its meant to be played!!! good luck mates 
::::::

::::::
UserName: miasomia
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 16, 2007 9:11 pm PT
Review:  All I can say is Negative things about need for speed prostreet.
  This game is horrible!
  The graphics are disgusting. They look a little better than N64 graphics.
  Pixley blurry bland 
 and Blah.
  The gameplay is equally just as bad as it looks.
  Stupid one button press nitro system, the hand brake is now worthless.
  If you use the hand brake 
 your car just comes to a complete stop.
  I played the demo and was discusted, but I have allways loved nfs games, Most wanted and carbon 
 were awesome, so I figured the demo wasn't doing the full product justice.
  Well I made the huge mistake of buying the game, and it is the worst racing game I have bought 
 in a long time.
  I honestly don't know what EA was thinking by actually allowing this game to be released like this. It 
 is so bad future patches can'r even save it.
  It seems to me that EA had some newbie Dev team that had no prior experience in making pc games 
 make this Sorry exscuse for a Need for speed game.
  I always felt you can't go wrong with a need for speed game, but now you can. It's called Need 
 for speed prostreet, and it's a waste of time money and your life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Com_Psyche
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 16, 2007 3:03 pm PT
Review:  After i read the first reviews, i thought there was no reason to try it. But being a compulsive 
 gamer, i decided to go through with it and give the game a chance.
  And i'm not sorry. The graphics are quite good, with nice smoke effects and such, but they're not 
 breathtaking. 
  What really made me sad was the total lack of a good storyline. You're Ryan Cooper... now go race!!! 
 That is really childish.
  But the game offers interesting ideas, a different car or setup for each race type and a very interesting 
 handling. It's really somewhere between arcade and simulation, even if the cars are a little slow, 
 giving the impression that someone hammered your clutch before giving you the car. 
  The difficulties are a bit annoying, because casual really means "let your dog play the game for 
 you", racer is just another way of saying "don't worry, just drive, we'll get you out of the tight 
 spots" .... so your only real option is king. That will let you feel the car, even if sometimes 
 it will get you in trouble.
  There is a wide selection of cars, but if you are good enough, you can finish this game with your 
 first cars. Of course, you need to pick them right. As a dragster i strongly recommend the Chevelle 
 SS, because after you upgrade it, it will get to 400 km/h easily, do the 1/4 mile in about 8 seconds 
 and the 1/2 mile in 12. That will be enough to get challenged by the drag king.
  For the other race types, why don't you find out yourself? :) 
  
  In short, it's more mature 
 than the rest of the series (by making the racing LEGAL.... so no more 16 yo will crash their Hondas 
 into brick walls, trying to imitate Darius) , the graphics are a lot better.... but it still has 
 a long way to go before reaching NFS PORSCHE.
  I gave the game a 9 for effort, because it is a step ahead from Carbon.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: scvido
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 16, 2007 9:51 am PT
Review:  i was expecting it, nothing good could come from EA anyways, hell even CARBON was half-decent compared 
 to this crap, thank god i could return the copy and get another game instead. meh
  
  Graphics - best looking game in the NFS series so far, good animations and cool special effects, 
 the menus are some of the worst i have ever seen and choosing something, anything, will drive you 
 crazy.....2000000 steps to choose an option.
  
  Sound - the usual NFS deal with rock music, good voices.
  
  Gameplay - Boring, Annoying, lacking, 
 bland..... and much more,
  it practically takes all the good of other nfs and annihilate it with one swift move
  destroying 
 the NFS series forever.
  
  
  Conclusion?
  
  yeah yeah i know.... people will vote my review as Not Recommended, this is because they wasted 
 their money on NFS PS and don't want to accept they have purchased one of the worst games of the 
 year.
  
  i was hoping EA would rectify the situation after CARBON but they went and ruined the series. well 
 done.
  
  NOT RECOMMENDED!!!!!!! (don't buy it even if someone points a rifle at you) .
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: flipperj
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 15, 2007 5:57 pm PT
Review:  From the NFS universe i would say this is the stupidest one... though it compensates with very 
 good graphics and much more realism - except the way the cars take turns in comparison with others 
 is just plain idiotic, not even the Lotus Elise doesn't do it right but a car of lower tier (Nissan 
 240) takes them perfectly even with all upgrades - ... but i would trade all of that for a good 
 storyline... after getting to the half of the game... i realised... it's quite boring after a time... 
 nothing new... it's all just the same but different cars 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cycoknob
Rating: 3.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 1:04 pm PT
Review:  This reminds me of the awesome looking blond that turns you completely
  off as soon as she starts talking.
  
  Good 
  Graphics are superb, sound is as it has been 
 lately in the NFS series Just plane awesome.
  
  Bad 
  The game is pointless! there is nothing to get you going, nothing on the other side of the fence. 
 its just pointless. playing this full version is just like playing the Demo over and over again. 
 the tracks are the same, opponents are the same, heck even all the cars are the same. i have seen 
 online 2D race games that made 10 times more sense then this.
  So you can tune/paint your care just like en previous NFS's but this time its just left in the 
 garage, you rarely use it as cars are usually appointed to you for each game, so painting and tuning 
 your car is pointless and UN-motivating as well.
  
  Game play: Pointless Pointless Pointless.
  
  Gave away my copy to a friend so that he would 
 not waste hes money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ApatiaMax
Rating: 2
Date: Nov 15, 2007 12:28 pm PT
Review:  I'v played with N4S from the first release, and i've to say that i've loved this product, in the 
 good and in the bad, i've played and finished all n4s and i've all boxes well exposed on my room...
 
  
  Oh man, this is the baddest, this one is totally boring, completly out from the n4s style, they 
 have used the modding interface from the old one, included some bugs, the story is complely absent, 
 like the city, you have just to run on some tracks and made some idiots mini games, like warming 
 the tyres before a race, the graphics is good but nothing of special, the puppets models are squared 
 if compared with some games like The Sims 2 or COD4, looks like they come from a 2 years old game, 
 and it's completly unusefull if you didn't immerse on the game.
  
  It's true, finally the car can be damaged, but you have to drive from inside, so what's the use 
 of the car damage if you can't see it ?
  Play from outside is a bit complicated 'cause the camera position, too low, and in other case too 
 far, in Project Torque you can play from inside, from the driver position (and you'll see the arms 
 on the steering) , or from behind, with 2 different camera position, and it's zoomable for a more 
 confort in play, here, that i've payed 60 i've 4 camera position and no way to change it, so i 
 wonder where is the news ?
  
  They have removed the cool things of N4S, it's a more simple game, with minigame inside and no 
 much more, the dynamics of the cars is good, but the rest is totally missing, and after some race 
 you will loose the wish to continue, so what a shame : (
  
  Well, listen up my suggestion, keep you money on the pocket, download the demo, and play with TroqueProject 
 or Most Wanted that it's better for sure : (
  1 year will past fast, i just hope that they come back on the right way, wishing well 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nfs_strKing
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 15, 2007 3:03 pm PT
Review:  This game was in my top 5 favourite games even before it came out, now Its moved up to be my absolute 
 fav! The best in the series is indeed Most Wanted, but this is just as good. Solid racing, great speed, amazing 
 graphics.
  The whole thing progresses as you (playing as a street racer named Ryan Cooper) enter the world 
 of legal racing-where you dont have to worry about police. That element is missing in the game, unlike 
 the previous games in the series, there is also no storyline. Thats better, considering the realism 
 of the game. After all, its not an RPG, its a racing game.
  So the main goal, is to become the showdown king, and to take away the crown from the top racer Ryo-a 
 dude that drives a very hot car. Becoming the Street King is kinda like your secondary goal, it just 
 feels that way, since the Kings of each race mode arent in conflict with your character in any way. You 
 just decide to go after their top spot.
  So, the racing in this game is intense, fast, and very realistic. The four main racing modes are Grip, Drag, Drift 
 and Speed.
  Grip has a few different types, but generaly is about being the fastest car on the track-kinda like 
 circuit racing. So does Drag, and Speed.
  The cars in this game look very nice, in fact I must say this game has the best car list i've seen. Every 
 single one makes you want to get your hands on, tune, and then hit the track (s) . There are over 50 
 cars,5 from the collectors edition, and 16 in the booster pack.
  The tuning is now better then ever, its about creating high performance race cars, unlike the previous 
 series. Every part has an impact on cars performance. Visual tuning is great, too. Stylish cars are 
 easy to make, and the blueprint sharing is a great feature.
  
  More to come later... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: izebear73
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 15, 2007 9:50 am PT
Review:  Need for speed Pro Street is a great game if you only see to the graphics alone. I encountered 
 problems when I was driving a grip race. When I hit the brakes the car didnt just break a little, 
 it stopped completely. It was hard to steer the car and so on. I think that this version of Need 
 for speed was a disappointment.
  
  The controls feels like it was made for a console, not the PC version. I felt that the game was 
 a little bit slow. My computer met the minimum requirements and much more but still the game do 
 run properly. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: anas_bom
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 3:43 am PT
Review:  encrallbel games
  Need for Speed ProStreet boasts impeccable precision and impressively detailed photo-realistic 
 graphics, effectively transporting you to the center of the action. It pushes the "Autosculpt" 
 technology to a new level, allowing you to directly impact your car's performance for the first 
 time as well as personalize its appearance. Need for Speed ProStreet is a true taste of raw adrenaline 
 and racing with consequences. Every dent, every scratch and every crumpled body panel is a battle 
 scar, proof of your commitment and competitive mettle. With an aggressive and skilled AI system, 
 you become immersed in an unmatched believable race experience. Add in a revolutionary online mode 
 that will redefine the meaning of competitive social play, and Need for Speed ProStreet is the 
 ultimate formula for an emotionally charged street racing showdown.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: domprofesor
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 15, 2007 1:08 am PT
Review:  
  
  Just got out, yesterday, stayed up all night playing it. Most people say it's not so great, it's 
 different from the other games in the series. And it is. The first thing i liked about the game 
 is that it is almost real (considering the older NFS's where you could take a corner by going into 
 the sidewall with 300km/h and still get out of the corner doin' 250) . First you got car damage. 
 Which is not only cosmetic, but it will affect the driving feel. So if your car is really damaged, 
 not only it will have a lot of parts broken or even lost along the raceway, but it will start behaving 
 badly - slower speed/acceleration, it will start pulling to the left/right, etc. So realism is 
 the first good thing. Each car handles differently. Some are good for drags some are good for ol 
 fashion races. You can feel the power difference between cars (especially in the first stages of 
 the game, where you get cars that go with 90mph top speed and around the corners you get 30mph) . 
 People who loved DIRT will definitely love this one. Graphics are good, and the best thing is that 
 the game even runs on a weak computer (sempron 2800+ 1gb Ram Geforce 6200) and it's fps are perfect, 
 somwhere aroun 27. Of course with low or medium details.
  
  Now to the bad parts. And boy there are many. First one and the most unimportant from my pov is 
 the story. It is a racing game. How the heck need a story. You can't even change your name. You 
 are Ryan Cooper and that final. Anyway For those who like the tuning part - it's gone. You can 
 no longer put spoilers, wings, sideskirts, rims and stuff like that on your car. Cars come pretuned 
 and they suck. I am almost at 50% of the game and the only thing i could change is the paint and 
 the performance parts. And what sucks most it that you can't even buy cars. Cars are awarded to 
 you.
  
  This NFS changes a lot and i don't know if the fans of the series will like this. But anyway, if 
 you like realistic driving games and you can ignore the stupid story don't be afraid to try this 
 one. Oh and a steering wheel will improve the experience greatly.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: stratspider230
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 14, 2007 7:35 pm PT
Review:  Its not bad for what it is, which is racing taken off the streets and moved to a more organized 
 scene, yes the cops have come and gone but the foundation is still pretty much there. Just think, 
 in a year or so another NFS will probably come out, and they just might integrate everything NFS 
 has been, that would be amazing. But as far as this game goes, I love it. The cars, the speed, 
 the crashes and the asians . (Not really the asians) But I give it good ratings. Im really impressed 
 with the graphics, the sound can be mediocre especially outside the car, its WAY to quiet. And 
 those announcer guys get irritating, good thing they put volume control on the game. But gameplay 
 is first class, good stuff. Nice job EA, but bring back free roam please, cops as well :-D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tableto
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 14, 2007 3:52 pm PT
Review:  Very nice game, but need wheel to be easier to play... unreal play drag with keyboard. Because 
 throttle need to be press by pedal. With buttons is unreal to get 100% grip, and normal start in 
 first gear.. Crash effects are good, also because never in this NFS tuning series was game where 
 you can smack your car.
  About handling, its better than previous games, closer to real life.
  Tuning options are a lot.. 
 Making blueprintes is something new and intresting, but i dont know how make normal options for 
 drag, thats why blueprints not for me. Games is good, and ai suggest you to buy it.. :)
  In one word I love this game.. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reddevilofhell
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 14, 2007 2:55 pm PT
Review:  By any means if EA thinks that we are still going to buy games just because there is NFS written 
 on it, i think they are thinking wrong.
  
  This game tries to bring a new trend to racing, which is good. But building on an entirely new base 
 is a lot risky.
  
  The immensive change in the gameplay and trend that EA games showed between NFS UNDERGROUND 2 and 
 NFS MOST WANTED is unforgettable. MOST WANTED was the best game in the title series. And left the 
 gamers hungry for more. The hot police pursuits, the new world and the cars, were just great.
  
  And then came NFS CARBON, based on the footpaths of the movie FAST AND FURIOUS TOKYO DRIFT. 
 NFS CARBON, in its own place was good, but not that great. Featuring the canyon drifts was good, 
 and introducing the teamplay, was not bad, unless you smashed into your teammates car. But they 
 degraded the HOT POLICE PURSUITS, which was loved and later missed by all.
  
  But now that NFS PRO STREET is here, it introduces a good concept of becoming the STREET KING, 
 and to become masters in the 5 different kind of racing styles. With a new next gen visualized world, 
 this game will definitely not end up in the bargain bin. But taking out completely the POLICE PURSUITS, 
 the TEAMPLAY, THE OPEN ENDED CITY, and NO NEW CARS, are some of the features that will leave you 
 disappointed and somewhat frustrated, especially after realizing that you are repeating the same 
 old thing again and again.
  The biggest drawback of the game is its commercials. Means there are more commercials than in all 
 the titles of NFS put together. This is like a TV soap box.
  
  This game is not a worthless games, but missing and lacking a lot of features does NOT makes this 
 a MUST-TO-HAVE-ONE -NFS-TITLE 
::::::

::::::
UserName: j2bv
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 14, 2007 1:18 pm PT
Review:  is amazing the best need for speed
  
  
  
  the bestttttttttttt::::::::::
  
  
  
  in the 
  ::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 
 ::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
  
  
  noting to say 
  
  
  
  
  need for speed pro street 
  need for speed pro street
  need for speed pro street
  need 
 for speed pro street
  need for speed pro street
  need for speed pro street
  need for speed pro street
  need for speed pro street
  need for speed pro street
  need for 
 speed pro street
  need for speed pro street
  need for speed pro street
  need for speed pro street
  need for speed pro street
  need for speed pro street
  need for 
 speed pro street
  need for speed pro street
  need for speed pro street
  need for speed pro street
  need for speed pro street
  need for speed pro street
  need for 
 speed pro street
  need for speed pro street
  need for speed pro street
  need for speed pro street
  need for speed pro street
  need for speed pro street
  need for 
 speed pro street
  need for speed pro street
  need for speed pro street
  need for speed pro street
  need for speed pro street 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PabloExobar
Rating: 4.5
Date: Nov 14, 2007 11:45 am PT
Review:  This game fails on almost every levels... that's a hard thing to achieve nowadays. First o fall, 
 cool. Cool that EA decided to go back to the ROOTS of NFS. More sim than arcade. Yup, that's what 
 NFS was before Underground... however.
  
  EA also tried to mix the features of the new age NFS with the old one. The result? Big, big, big 
 failure. 
  
  To start off the galore of mistakes.. well, the tracks. They suck. This time we have closed tracks 
 again. Fine. But then, you'd except diverse scenery. Well, guess what.. there's NOTHING! Literally 
 you'll be racing in the desert or... or in a boring circuit track enviorment (grass and some trees) . 
 This is not Forza. This game _WAS_ about driving crazy, even in the early games of the franchise, 
 not on a race track!
  
  Then ,the controls. The physics. Okay, damage is back. Great. It actually works - body deformes, 
 windshields break. Heck, you can even total your car!
  But everything from here on is basically downhill. Even a stock GOLF feels like a 5 ton truck, 
 the steering is incredibly inresponsible, and jerky.
  
  There are 3 "assisst levels", but ironically, only if you use the hardest one you can basically 
 DRIVE your car. Even on medium the game tends to BRAKE for yourself. Thats funny. And even on hardest 
 mode, you have to turn off ABS, TC before EVERY race. That's right. The game will forget your settings. 
 How dumb is that?
  
  This game was promoted with damage and the feel of the speed. Well, damage worked. The feel of 
 the speed? Uhh... There's only 1 camera view which gives you an actual taste of what the devs meant. 
 But this camera view is _unplayable_ It's way too far from the car, it shakes too much. But in 
 any other camera angle, it's just the regular NFS feeling. 
  
  Graphically, the game is garbage. It uses same engine as Carbon, Most Wanted, Underground and HP2. 
 Yes, a 5 year old engine still. It's obviously dated... the cars look okay, but the enviorment 
 is washed out, textures are low res, grass is like a green carpet. Compared to Test Drive Unlimited 
 or the PGR series, it's laughable.
  
  The biggest issue of the game, though, is how complicated and dumb it's menus are. Yes, menus can 
 actually bring down the game. First of all, you can' thave a single race. You have to creat a RACE 
 WEEKEND to have a quick lap. Setting it up is alot of hassle so you might just want to try another 
 game. The menu actually prompts you to use both mouse and keyboard sometimes, and it's just way 
 too confusing. Also Career mode is overly complicated, it should be straightforward like NFSUG1.
 
  
  Speaking of which, the last 3 NFS games had a story. They were of course laughable, but at least, 
 there was a story. Their over the topedness gave the game an unique feeling. This time? THERE IS 
 something EA calls story, but it's just... pathetic. And anyway, Ryan Cooper? Why can't I have my 
 own name? 
  
  All considered this game is a major disappointment, I enjoyed Carbon more. This NFS was stripped 
 from almost every good thing it picked up in the last few years. The main concept (going back to 
 the roots) is good, but ... this just blows. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Claudyu1991
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 14, 2007 10:46 am PT
Review:  This game is realy nasty.
  Let's talk about the good things about this game.
  
  The graphics are almost good. And the last good thing from this game is the large amount of cars.
 
  
  And now let's talk about the bad things, which are more than the good ones.
  
  The game-play really sucks : the thing with car groups (Drag, drift, grip,.....) , this is a big weak 
 spot and also, if you try to change the mode or group, your blueprints will be erased. The nitrous 
 amount is limited, the car's controls are nasty even if you are playing at king or racer or the 
 other one. Another thing that annoyed me is "the map" and the race days (it's almost like GTI Racing 
 with the tournaments) and I'm sure that my mark for this failed attempt of NFS will be like GTI 
 racing's (5.1) . When I've started to play this game my first question was : "This game is a shame 
 for EA Games. It's really made by them?", it's even worse than Underground 2 or Hot Pursuit 2. Anyway, this 
 game is really disappointing and I think the appropriate mark is 5.5.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rulzmaker
Rating: 4.5
Date: Nov 14, 2007 7:11 am PT
Review:  Anyone who already played it can confirm that ProStreet is the worst Need for Speed EA ever created. 
 Why ? It's simple.
  NFS Carbon even though it wasn't bright, it kept me at my pc untill i've finished it and beated 
 all the bosses, but, ProStreet after 10 minutes, i've unistalled it and i hope i never intersect 
 with it again.
  If you play the game at low resolution the graphics are so ugly, even nfs 3 had them better. And 
 the damage everyone waited for, stinks, it's like it was tooked away from an ugly NCAP drawing.
 
  ProStreet ? What's that supposed to mean ? No real "street racing", you select the races from 
 the menu, wich sucks pretty much. If you love running away from police, don't worry, the worst 
 NFS has it all, and i mean, NO COPS are in the game whatsoever. You want to work your way up to 
 a great car and race the bosses ? Why bother, the race organisers give you cars for free to race 
 with them, which sucks. No storyline whatsoever.
  Dude ? What's with the grip races ? All the 15 cars are exactly the same ? What the hell ? This 
 is lame.
  You like drifting within the turns ? No can do.
  The AI stinks so hard, even a five year old can beat them blindfolded.
  
  If it wasn't for 
 the Need for Speed in front of the ProStreet, i think no one would even bother to try it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PT-KoRn_Child
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 14, 2007 5:21 am PT
Review:  The good: Good graphics (only for High End pcs) , Damage system, cool smoke, good racing tracks 
 and events
  
  The bad: Awful graphics in lower res, no "real" street races, no world to explore, no cops, poor 
 story (always the same) ....
  
  If you are expecting the best Need for speed ever released I assure you will very disappointed...
 
  In fact I don't even believe what they've done in this NFS. 
  First off: Graphics are awful in lower resolutions, if u want to play with acceptable graphics 
 at least looking like NFS carbon with all specs maxed you'll need a high end PC. I've tested the 
 game in p4 3.2, 2mb cache, 2 gb ram @ 667Mhz, Geforce 7900 Gs (this graphic card is superior to 
 every 8600 series) . It might be odd but I run Crysis better than this game LOL. Just to give an 
 example: I run every NFS with all specs maxed out in this machine. To get acceptable graphics and 
 frame rate I have to turn off almost everything like filtering options, smoke, shadows, world quality. 
 I know I cannot judge a game by its specs request but man why buy a game that looks worse than 
 the last NFS game @ mid resolution ?????? They should worked better low res textures so that everyone 
 could play the game smoothly... 
  Enough about the graphics - let's talk about the story: has you might be expecting the objective 
 is to become the street king or whatsoever. You'll have to race a bunch of tracks and different 
 events, which is pretty much the same has the last games in the series. You can customize your 
 car in many aspects unfortunately interiors were left out of play once again. All races are made 
 in closed circuits. There is no world to explore, tunning is made @ garage, no cops and off course, 
 no incoming traphic.
  We all know that races aren't to be done in the street, because they are dangerous, so we don't 
 race outside and we play @ our homes games like Nfs underground or GTA where we could do a lot 
 of stuff that wouldn't be possible in real life.. Playing this game is almost like playing Toca 
 Race Driver the only difference is the tunning aspect and some race events. The game OST is ok, 
 there are lots of neat songs, some are present in other games like Fifa 08. Gameplay is more realistic 
 somehow. Now instead of offering Arcade gameplay like the rest of the series it offers you a more 
 realistic simulation. Damage system is really cool now it is possible to destroy the car in a collision 
 and the damage inflicted by other cars and objects in the track do realistic damage to the car 
 like side mirrors broken and scrachy paint. Smoke is cool and also very realistic. 
  
  Conclusion: If you are looking for a street - "indoor" game with realistic race simulation and 
 own a high end pc, if you are a fanboy of the series and looking for something new then this game 
 is for you. To those who are looking for NFS underground 3; NFS Most wanted 2 or NFS Carbon 2 - 
 With mid-end PC - Forget about it because you won't find anything here besides costumized cars 
 and some race types present in other games in the series.....
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: majidjahan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 13, 2007 8:47 pm PT
Review:  oh man 
  this is it
  im in looooooveeeee i cant say anything
  just buy it and see yourself
  musics are wow
  GRAPHICS are WOW
  Sounds are WOW
  Smokes 
 are WOW
  ...
  WWWOOOWWW
  best of NFS
  what do you want to know ?
  i dont know ?
  just playing ! 
  
  Once you start to overlook the frame rate, you can finally realize just 
 how good EA did with designing the racing action of Need for Speed ProStreet. The drag mode is 
 a much more technical experience (heating up the tires is actually a fun mini-game) and has been 
 made more visually stimulating than before. The drifting also gets a bump up in technical difficulty 
 with the presence of competitor smoke (thus creating the decision of going first and fast, or fighting 
 through the haze and going technical) , via the enhanced physics and with the ability to clutch-cut. 
 Even the wheel-to-wheel events are far superior to the Underground games, due to the increased 
 A. I. awareness, gameplay-affecting damage model and the fact that the racing can now be a daytime 
 affair. Yeah, the constantly zooming in/out camera can be a bit of a nuisance at times (especially 
 in the tight corners) , but other than this small quirk, Need for Speed ProStreet holds it down 
 nicely on its various pieces of tarmac.
  
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
