-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Neighbors From Hell
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/neighboursfromhell/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 23, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.7
Critic Score: 6.5, 19 Review (s)
User Score: 7.7, 256 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Encore Software, Inc.
Developer: JoWood
Genre: Strategy
Date:     Sep 22, 2003
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Despite the disappointment of a rather short campaign, Neighbors From Hell is still worth a look 
 for any strategy or puzzle game fan. 

  If nothing else, JoWood's recently released strategy game, Neighbors From Hell, has an attention-grabbing 
 title. The game has a lot more to offer than just a catchy name, though. Neighbors From Hell's 
 simple gameplay mechanics and quirky theme make it a fun, albeit easy and short, strategy game 
 reminiscent of the classic '80s computer game Spy vs. Spy.  

  The premise of Neighbors From Hell centers on Woody, who is the star of a reality-based television 
 show. As Woody, you must sneak into the house of your oafish-looking neighbor and play as many 
 practical jokes on him as possible, all while remaining undetected. With each successful joke, 
 the television ratings for that particular show will climb -- you'll need to reach a minimum ratings 
 threshold before the mission is considered complete.  

  With 2D graphics that remain fixed at a resolution of 800x600, Neighbors From Hell isn't the most 
 technically impressive game, but it doesn't need to be. The art style is appropriately quirky and 
 comical for a game based on practical jokes. Fans of the  Wallace &amp; Gromit  short films will 
 certainly appreciate the look and feel of Neighbors From Hell and its characters, who appear cartoonish, 
 almost claymation-like. The game's sound also gets the job done without too much flashiness; the 
 characters talk in a Sims-style gibberish, while the music tracks and laugh tracks remind you that 
 you're playing a television show.  

          The game's viewpoint lets you explore while keeping tabs on your neighbor.     

  Aside 
 from the premise, Neighbors From Hell's presentation also takes a cue from Spy vs. Spy. Your viewpoint 
 consists of a cutaway, cross-sectional view of your neighbor's house. This means you can always 
 keep an eye on what your neighbor is doing in the next room or on a different floor as you sneak 
 around in another portion of the house. The developers of the game have also included a useful 
 "thought bubble" feature in the bottom left of the screen that helps you keep tabs on your neighbor. 
 If you're moving about the kitchen and you see the thought bubble change to a cup of coffee, you 
 know you will need to clear out of the kitchen quickly, lest you get caught and beaten up by your 
 neighbor.  

  Setting up a joke in the game is usually pretty straightforward. You'll wander around the house, 
 opening up drawers and cabinets looking for loose items. You can use these items in some other 
 part of the house in order to set up a gag. For example, you may go into the bathroom and find 
 a bottle of laxatives in the medicine cabinet. You'll need to somehow sneak these into the beer 
 that your neighbor is drinking upstairs in order to complete the joke. However, winning a scenario 
 isn't just about finding all of the loose items in the house and applying them correctly. To maximize 
 your ratings, you'll need to make sure your neighbor falls for one gag after another in quick succession. 
 Doing so means you'll need to observe his pattern of behavior and figure out the most efficient 
 way to lay out your traps.  

          You can mouse over your inventory to get a hint.     

  Getting back to the laxative 
 example, you know your neighbor will head straight for the bathroom after drinking the laced beer. 
 Before mixing the Ex-Lax cocktail, you could grab a wet bar of soap and leave it on the tile floor 
 of the bathroom so your neighbor will slip and fall as he comes running in. If you're ever confused 
 about what to do with an item, you can get hints by mousing over your inventory or by having Woody 
 look at the parts of the house that can be interacted with.  

  The game's 14 episodes are divided up into three different seasons. In early seasons, your neighbor's 
 routines are simple, and the house remains quite small and easy to navigate. In the later seasons, 
 the basement and attic of the house are opened up, and your neighbor's routine becomes more complex. 
 You'll also have to sneak by pets, such as a dog and a parrot, both of which will bark or cry out 
 loudly if they hear you stomping around the room they're sleeping in. Even with all the rooms opened, 
 and all the obstacles in place, Neighbors From Hell isn't a challenging game by any means -- the 
 first two seasons are almost ridiculously easy.  

  Unfortunately, each of the game's episodes lasts for only five to 10 minutes. Counting in a couple 
 of replays per episode, most players will be done with everything Neighbors From Hell has to offer 
 in around four hours or less. And unlike in its spiritual predecessor, Spy vs. Spy, there is no 
 multiplayer mode in Neighbors From Hell to keep you going, so once you're done with the 14 episodes, 
 there isn't anything else to do.  

  Overall, Neighbors From Hell is a fun little game that could potentially appeal to both core gamers 
 and a mainstream audience. Watching the hapless neighbor fall for one gag after another appeals 
 to the sadist in all of us, and you'll often feel a little twinge of anticipation as he approaches 
 each trap you've set up. For some, the jokes may wear thin quickly, but you'll still get some thrill 
 out of setting up several pratfalls in the same room and diving under the bed to hide at the very 
 last moment. Despite the disappointment of a rather short campaign, Neighbors From Hell is still 
 worth a look for any strategy or puzzle game fan looking for something out of the norm.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (7 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: superfly360
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 25, 2009 10:52 am PT
Review:  neighbors from hell is a good game.
  
  it's a great idea. having a little guy play a whole bunch of pranks on a steryotype neighbor all 
 themed to a tv show.
  
  the first couple of missions are rediculously easy. but after a while they get a little tougher 
 requiring timing of pranks so you can set up other pranks, setting up the same prank twice to give 
 you more time, and purposly set off the dog or bird.
  
  the pranks in this game are funny. zapping the neighbor with a wire, making him kick a bowling 
 ball, tacks in his bed, replacing yoga book with knot tieing book, putting dentures in hot sauce, 
 and many more.
  
  some of the pranks get repeated in other levels but most of them can be used in different spots. 
 
  
  the graphics are actually really good.
  
  they don't make it complicated at all. moving is just simply clicking where you want to move. to 
 sneak you just right click. to open a door you just click on it. the only problem i have had with 
 this game is that sometimes, even if you sneak through the door, the dog or bird will still freak 
 out. 
  
  overall, this game is good. short and easy but still fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PSX-man
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 6, 2009 2:44 am PT
Review:  How this for a TV-show: A guy is walking around in his neighbor's house, breaking stuff and setting 
 traps for him to trigger. And all this is for one purpose: to make the people watching laugh from 
 the neighbour's outbreaks. Does it sound bizarre? Don't worry; this is not a TV-show but the name 
 of a strategy game made by Jowood.
  
  As a game, Neighbors from hell offers an innovative concept as well as some hilarious moments. 
 You take control over Woody, the star of the TV-show "Neighbors from hell". It's his job to ruin 
 life of the neighbor, but also to make sure the show gets as many viewers as possible. 
  
  The way of causing disorder is simple: first you need to pick up items to set the traps with. After 
 that, you click one of these items on an object you want to combine it with. Then you wait for 
 the neighbor to walk into that trap and as he triggers that trap that also triggers a hysterical 
 laugh attack within you. One thing that isn't so simple is that Woody can't be in the same room 
 as the neighbor, or he will be brutally beaten, and even though it's funny to watch the first time 
 around, it can get a little annoying after a while.
  
  Controlling Woody is a simple matter. The mouse is everything you need in order to play the game. 
 With the left mouse button Woody walks and with the right mouse button he sneaks, which is sometime 
 necessary when the neighbors' pets are around.
  
  What holds Neighbors from hell back is the fact that the game is short. Sure you might feel like 
 playing the game again after beating it, but by then you have already seen every one of the traps 
 and how the neighbor reacts after walking into them, giving the game very little replay value.
 
  
  Neighbors from hell is a very funny game, but only the first times around. The concept, however 
 is without a doubt the most innovative in years. Who wouldn't want to pay back their evil neighbor 
 by putting a mousetrap in his mailbox or by gluing his photo album shut?
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: taraboi1
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 25, 2007 1:00 pm PT
Review:  Man, this game is very very very awesome how can it get such a little score???? I can't believe 
 it this game is very good so why such a little score? I'm really disapointed about gamespot's review 
 of the game and hope that someone out there understands that this is a good game and not a stupid 
 one.. the second game is much better but this one is very good too. I like this game very much 
 and I appreciate it from the bottom of my soul :D :) :P :P :P :) :D i really really do man c'mon 
 higher score plz 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nodham
Rating: 6.4
Date: Jan 13, 2006 2:39 pm PT
Review:  Neighbours From Hell is a simple platform game where you must avoid various obstacles in your neverending 
 quest to drive your neighbour up the wall. 
  Most platform games involve avoiding enemies, collecting things and jumping over lava. NFH, however, 
 has no jump button, because it involves carefully timing your movements around a 2D house in order 
 to place various Home Alone-style traps for your neighbour to stumble into. Most areas are set 
 up so that you can place several traps close to each other. Whenever 'neighbour' stumbles onto 
 one, his anger level rises. Catch him in another before he cools off and you get extra points (and 
 his back goes out) . Therefore most of the gameplay consists of finding out the pattern of his movements 
 and then rushing out of hiding to quickly place what's needed. Sounds boring, but who wouldn't 
 want to be the ultimate prankster for a few hours? I say few hours, because this game probably 
 won't take longer to beat. This short playing time translates into nicely thought-out levels that 
 don't get boring, even as your character accidentaly bumps into his neighbour and gets pummeled 
 for the umpeenth time. The cartoony graphics will keep you smiling.
  
  This game isn't set to become a classic, nor does it try to be. It's a puzzle game that doesn't 
 involve coloured blocks and it's mischievously proud of it. If you've had enough of build orders, 
 health meters and levelling up, try a different kind of game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spidster0
Rating: 7.9
Date: Dec 16, 2005 5:16 am PT
Review:  i really loved that his very cool
  you need to gett your neighbor mad...
  and its so funny all the stuff you doing to him
  but i think the game is too short
  and you 
 dont have enogh chance to do a lot of stuff
  you can finish it in few houres and it mean NOTHING : (
  i think they need to do another game 
 but longer and with more funny stuff
  and cool things... and more thinking and more all the stuff
  the makes the game so cool and fun 
 to play
  but i think you should rent the game cus if you wanna buy it
  you will need to return to the shop very fast 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 7.2
Date: Mar 10, 2005 3:17 pm PT
Review:  Neighbors from Hell is a game for the mean-natured, sadistic bastard in all of us. The game effectively 
 captures the spirit of a Bugs Bunny cartoon by giving you opportunities to play annoying and often 
 painful cartoonish pranks on your fat slob of a neighbor. This game is a lot of fun for the short 
 time that it lasts. It basically plays out like you would expect from reading an advertisement 
 for the game.
  
  At its core, Neighbors from Hell is a puzzle game, and a very easy one at that. You sneak around 
 the house and find objects. You combine these objects with other objects to set traps for your 
 neighbor as he goes through his daily routine. When he runs into a trap, you are rewarded with 
 an amusing animation that shows the trap going off, and then the neighbor losing his temper. They 
 include stuff like replacing his wine with vinegar, replacing fish food with steroids, and getting 
 birds to poop on his clothes. For the most part, the pranks are very easy to figure out, once you 
 watch his routine a couple of times. However, you get bonus points for successfully stringing two 
 or more pranks together in succession. Sometimes you can pull off three or four, and this requires 
 some planning. This feature lends an underappreciated level of challenge to the game. For example, 
 you can spike your neighbors beer with laxatives. Then you can stop up his toilet, and put a bar 
 of soap on the bathroom floor. When he drinks the beer, he will run for the bathroom, slip on the 
 bar of soap, and find out the hard way that his toilet is stopped up. This gives you bonus points, 
 and an extra level of satisfaction.
  
  Graphics-wise, Neighbors from Hell is good without being spectacular. The game makes up for its 
 lack of technology with some nice animation and art work. The prank animations are particularly 
 well done and amusing. The audio also gets the job done fairly well. A laugh track sounds off when 
 you set a trap or when the neighbor walks into a prank. It is consistent with the theme of the 
 game, which is that you are the sadistic protagonist of a reality TV show. The music is appropriately 
 lighthearted. The game lacks spoken dialog. The closest thing to dialog that it has is the neighbors 
 Simlish-like grunts and screams. 
  
  The biggest problem with Neighbors from Hell is that it is very short, and it has basically no 
 replay value (unless you want to show it to somebody else) . Depending upon how hard you try to 
 get a good score for each episode, you can finish the game in 3-5 hours. Then, it kind of just 
 ends with a congratulations screen, and you go back to the main menu. Its too bad that there 
 wasnt more to this game, because its a great idea that is executed remarkably well. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fett35
Rating: 4.3
Date: Oct 21, 2003 7:02 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  
  The gameplay is very simple and intuitive which makes Neighbors from Hell fun, but there is no 
 depth to the gameplay. You make no decisionsyou have to put the right item at the right location 
 at the right time. Half of the game is scrolling the pointer across the screen to determine what 
 items are clickable. While moving your character around is intuitive, the point-and-click structure 
 of setting the booby traps is so simple that it leaves little to be desired. Most of the fun of 
 puzzle games is using things in unique ways to solve problems. There is no uniqueness hereyou 
 have to do exactly what the game developers intended to succeed. My score for Gameplay is a 5, 
 evenly splitan 8 for the control scheme, a 3 for the strategy and lack of replayability.
  
  Graphics:
  
  800x600. Nothing special, nothing horrible. The claymation like graphics are 
 appealing, and some of the neighbor reactions did make me laugh out loud, but as simple as the 
 game is, more complex graphics should be included.
  
  Sound:
  
  The best part of the game. The laugh track is hilarious and reminds me of sitcoms from the 70s. 
 The crazy music fits right in. The sound effects are weak in some areas and good in some others. 
 The zany sounds give the game a lighthearted feel that meshes well with the gameplay and the graphics.
 
  
  Value:
  
  Lousyplain and simple. The game costs $40.00 and it took me just a single afternoon to complete 
 it. There is no replayability value and no open-ended  traps like 
 there were in Spy vs. Spy. The quote on the box mentioning over 100 setups you could trap your 
 neighbor with sounded intriguing, but without allowing the player to decide what to set when, the 
 number of traps to set is meaningless. This is another cesspit from JoWood. Id shy away from their 
 productions in the future.
  
  Reviewers Tilt:
  
  A very shallow game that is nothing but a waste of money from a developer that is earning a reputation 
 of a confidence artist. It has its moments, can be genuinely entertaining, but is much, much too 
 short for $40 and is so simple it feels like an extended tutorial for a much larger game. If spending 
 $40 on a three-hour game that is nothing more than following this instruction and that instruction, 
 Neighbors from Hell may be for you. If not, there are other games much more worth your hard-earned 
 money.
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
