-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Nemesis of the Roman Empire
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/celtickingspunicwars/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 19, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 7.4, 16 Review (s)
User Score: 8.0, 230 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Enlight Software
Developer: Haemimont
Genre: Historic Real-Time...
Date:     Mar 25, 2004
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Nemesis may resemble a typical real-time strategy game, but it features a clever logistics model 
 and better-than-average AI to help it stand apart from the crowd. 

  Nemesis of the Roman Empire (also known as Celtic Kings: Punic Wars outside the US) is Haemimont 
 Games' follow-up to its well-received real-time strategy game Celtic Kings: Rage of War. Nemesis 
 is built upon the same engine as its predecessor but adds two new races, the Carthaginians and 
 the Iberians, to the Gauls and Romans that were available in the original Celtic Kings. While on 
 the surface Nemesis offers features we've seen many times before in the genre, such as hero characters 
 and a lack of base-building, it also includes a clever logistics model and better-than-average 
 artificial intelligence to help it stand apart from the numerous RTS clones on the market.  

          The informative map screen in Nemesis is one of the game's greatest assets.     

 
  On the whole, Nemesis' presentation is easily the game's worst aspect -- relatively speaking. The 
 orchestral-style music sets an appropriate mood for a game based on classical wars between Rome 
 and Carthage, but the few available scores grow repetitive rather quickly. Voice acting in the 
 game is also rather bad, just as it was in its predecessor. Simplistic cutscenes are interspersed 
 between the campaign missions, but for the most part, the characters in the game interact via text 
 boxes, and mission objectives are given to you with more unceremonious text.  

  Graphically, the game is pretty good but not great, as the engine seems to have aged since the 
 original Celtic Kings. There's a decent sense of scale between the units and buildings, as well 
 as a fair amount of detail in the actual unit models. The animation is where things start to fall 
 apart -- while most units look fine while standing in place and battling, they have somewhat awkward 
 walking motions.  

  Despite the superficial shortcomings, the engine is still pretty impressive in the bigger picture. 
 Nemesis maps can be rather large, with dozens of units rendered on the same screen, and you can 
 instantly jump from one part of the battle to another, via the extremely detailed and useful map 
 screen. The game seems to be able to effortlessly render the activity of hundreds of units, possibly 
 engaged in many different skirmishes at the same time, across an entire map. With a simple press 
 of the space bar, you can examine a full-screen view of the level, including color-coded dots representing 
 your troops and the enemy's troops, the villages and forts you control, and where those facilities 
 are shipping their resources. Fog of war is a part of the game, but in many cases, you can still 
 discern enemy troop movements and army sizes with a quick glance at the map screen.  

  Like in many other RTS games, there's no base-building to worry about, but you must keep track 
 of standard resources like food and gold. You use food to increase the population of your cities, 
 and it can also be sold for gold, while gold is used to train troops and buy upgrades. It's the 
 logistical element that helps Nemesis stand out from the competition. Your troops out in the field 
 consume food, so to maintain a standing army outside the city, you must make sure to have pack 
 mules laden with food follow your army around and keep it fed. Even if you have your army garrisoned 
 in a fort, you must maintain a steady supply of food to that fort to maintain combat efficiency. 

          Nemesis' battles can involve dozens or even hundreds of units onscreen.     

  The logistical aspects carry over to resource gathering. To obtain food, you must capture and 
 retain control of outlying villages. These villages create food at a fixed rate, which must then 
 be transported to forts -- which can accumulate food -- or to your city. Creating a supply link from 
 one village or fort to another property takes just two clicks, minimizing hassle, but the capture 
 and recapture of valuable villages and forts forms the basis of all conflict in Nemesis. The supply 
 lines you create are also vulnerable to attack by your enemies, as mules can either be killed or 
 captured. This means that the properties you gain make you stronger, but you also have the added 
 responsibility of defending a much wider area.  

  The combat in Nemesis should feel familiar to fans of recent RTS games. Units can be attached to 
 heroes, allowing them to move in formation and also gain bonuses for being under the command of 
 a hero. Each race also has an array of units that are similar in look and feel but offer enough 
 differences in attributes that each side plays a bit differently. For example, the Carthaginians 
 have camel riders, instead of horses, that have a better attack than most other cavalry but are 
 also more expensive. The magic users of each race also help differentiate the nations. The enchantress 
 of the Iberians, for instance, has the very useful ability to train freshly recruited troops to 
 higher levels without having them go into combat. Special structures, like ruins for your magic 
 users to cast world-altering spells and cave systems that offer the ability to instantly move from 
 one side of the map to the other, are also available in many levels to vary the gameplay.  

  The enemy AI is fairly clever, and it doesn't seem to cheat as in many other RTS games. You'll 
 see groups of enemy forces scouting around the map, probing your forward properties for a weak 
 point. If you leave a fort or village lightly defended, the AI will intelligently attack those 
 instead of wasting troops on your more heavily defended properties. While sieging enemy cities, 
 you'll see the computer attempt feints and harassing charges to try to draw your troops away from 
 your catapults and bring your army into range of its own towers. At the same time, the computer 
 is usually smart enough to not be duped by your own attempts to bring his attacking forces within 
 range of your towers when the tables are turned. Our primary complaint is that getting all of your 
 units in a large army to engage nearby enemies can be problematic. At times, you'll see half your 
 army fighting, while the rest sit idly just a few feet away watching their comrades tussle.  

 
          The game may resemble a typical historic-themed RTS, but it's got a lot more to it.   
   

  Nemesis includes two good-sized campaigns: One follows Hannibal's march through Hispania and the 
 outlying Roman territories, and the other depicts the Roman side of the war. There are three additional 
 siege-style maps available as well. Once you're done with the campaigns, a robust skirmish mode 
 is available to you for single-player games against up to seven computer opponents or for multiplayer 
 action. The game will generate a random map for you, much like the Age of Empires games, and you 
 can select from a number of settings, such as map style, disabling certain property types (like 
 the ruins or caves) , or allowing starting bonuses to certain players as a handicap. A server browser 
 is provided for online play, but as with many lower-profile RTS games, finding an online Nemesis 
 match may prove difficult since it has no true dedicated matchmaking service.  

  Overall, Nemesis of the Roman Empire is a fine follow-up to Celtic Kings, and a great real-time 
 strategy game on its own merits. The new campaigns offer varied and interesting gameplay just like 
 the original game, and the added races offer a new dimension for existing fans. The winning gameplay 
 formula has been tweaked only slightly, with Haemimont not attempting to "fix" what clearly wasn't 
 broken.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (5 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Slayer_Sam
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 20, 2006 11:25 am PT
Review:  If you're anything like me, you bring home the newest RTS title, play it for a while, and then 
 realize that it's pretty much the same game as all the others, with slightly different graphics. 
 Sure, sure, there might be some new interface tweaks, a new plot twist or two in the background 
 story, but basically, it's the same game. Build your defenses, build your army, and kill your opponent. 
 Well, imagine my surprise when I fired up Enlight's latest RTS title, Nemesis of the Roman Empire.
 
  
  The differences here jump right out at you from the moment you start the tutorial. For starters, 
 there's nothing to build! Every building you can have during the course of the game is already 
 built and is somewhere out on the map. All you need to do is find them and capture them. Second, 
 there are no resources to gather! That's right! No more will you need to send out groups of peasants 
 to cut wood, mine stone, or gather food. The only resources in the game are gold and food, and 
 they are gathered automatically. We'll talk more about that a bit later though, just so I don't 
 get too far ahead of myself.
  
  The next relatively new thing going on here is heroes. Heroes are your friends. They can take control 
 of up to 50 of your units, lending them experience to increase their level and proficiency. You 
 then issue orders to the Hero, and he passes them on to the troops. (Think Heroes of Might and 
 Magic, but real-time instead of turn-based.) Heroes also give you the option to change the group's 
 formation, which is very useful for a protracted open field battle. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dwilson32
Rating: 5.2
Date: Sep 23, 2006 9:37 am PT
Review:  I bought this game from Direct2Drive. com so my review may be a bit different then off-the-shelf 
 reviews. The game takes about 10 minutes to load once you have everything set up and click the 
 start button. This is on a 2.0 GHz Athlon 64, 1.5 GB RAM, and an ATI Radeon x800 series vid card 
 with 256 MB RAM. All of my other strategy games (except for Civilization 4) run smooth with fast 
 load times on my PC. Once the game is loaded and you start playing, it has its moments when it 
 is trying to load something and the game stalls for about 30 seconds or so. This makes it difficult 
 to enjoy. Finally my experience ended in the game crashing to Windows with no error displayed. 
 There is obviously something wrong with the Direct2Driver version of the game so don't buy it there. 
 Direct2Drive does NOT support the games that they sell after the activation window has displayed. 
 Their only concern is that the game gets activated. I am still waiting on the reply from Enlight 
 on possible fixes. This game would be somewhat enjoyable if it worked properly. I wouldn't consider 
 this game the best or anything close. The other reviewers have obviously not played very many strategies. 
 This game (if it worked correctly) would be mediocre at best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: koiduonu
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 10, 2006 3:14 am PT
Review:  This game is truly amazing. I have been playing it for years now and it still amazes me with it's 
 simplicity and new techinques I find out. Terribly cool.
  
  The heroes: you can find nothing better, attach 50 men and go to war. So cool is if you try to 
 set a limit that each hero needs atleast those men and then these additional ones.
  
  Amazing game. The Carthaginian units are so good because they cost no population (except nobles) . 
 The Romans are just plain strenghty, with the praetorians and scouts... I especially like to conquer 
 an unconquered settlement where gold has been gathering for a long time (neutral ones, gold from 
 the beginning of the game) then take all my units into that place and make the 'Every Unit Near 
 Settlement Gain 1 Level' and then I once had an army of level 120 men... so few died at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Droideka80
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 22, 2006 11:18 am PT
Review:  This Game IS VERY addictive. My Friend lent me the game and the first time i played it i started 
 bribing to buy it at like, $15. He let me buy it for only about 5 though. Some of the great things 
 about this game is the fact that the way you use population ISN'T LIKE MOST STRATEGY GAMES!! When 
 you make a unit Population goes DOWN, because you are using up a peasant to become a soldier, therefore 
 population goes DOWN, but it doesn't matter how many soldiers u have, you could have like, a BAZILLION 
 soldiers on the field, just one thing about having alot of soldiers though, you start LAG, BAD!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EwaAznLeader
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 19, 2006 7:01 pm PT
Review:  Put this game right next to Rome: Total War because this game is just plain addictive. Nice use 
 of neutral enemies. No limits on how many units to have on the field, so you can have a million 
 for all you care, but you would lag a lot! Play 2 of the four forces in Story mode, and play the 
 others in skirmish or online with friends. I can't stop playing this game, just awesome. Give it 
 a try, it should only be 20 dollars at the most, if over, don't buy. I'll be waiting for the next 
 one for sure.. I can't wait. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
