-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Neocron
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/neocron/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 16, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.6
Critic Score: 6.7, 11 Review (s)
User Score: 6.8, 73 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: cdv Software
Developer: Reakktor Media
Genre: Sci-Fi Online...
Date:     Nov 17, 2002
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
While the promise of political intrigue in a futuristic setting will draw you into the game, Neocron's 
 inability to make a significant impact will push you away. 

 Background story sets Neocron apart from other massively multiplayer games. In Neocron, German developer 
 Reakktor has created a highly detailed world with a setting as complex as that of a hard-core science-fiction 
 novel. Anyone who enjoys good storytelling will appreciate the quality of the game's writing, which 
 is so impressive in spots that it even manages to rejuvenate the hackneyed postapocalyptic sci-fi 
 setting featured in Neocron and countless other games before it. Unfortunately, the game's design 
 doesn't keep pace with its interesting background story. Reakktor may have created a captivating 
 world, but it hasn't fleshed out players' roles in it. While the promise of political intrigue 
 among colorful factions in a futuristic setting will draw you into the game, Neocron's inability 
 to make a significant impact with any of these things will push you away.           Creating a 
 character in Neocron is a complicated prospect.    

  Neocron is set in the middle of the 28th century, approximately 600 years after a nuclear war between 
 the Federation of the Free World and the Chinese Empire turned Earth into a wasteland. This premise 
 is really nothing new, but Reakktor has done a great job of freshening up what seems like a tired 
 concept. Neocron's story, which is related in the game's manual, is very well written and makes 
 use of all the traditional postapocalyptic story elements: much of the world is dirty and run-down, 
 mutant animals and insects can be found everywhere, and civilization is confined to closed cities 
 like Neocron.   

  Neocron's character creation system is almost as complicated as the game's plot. Reakktor and publisher 
 CDV are billing Neocron as an RPG-shooter hybrid with the depth of the former and the ease of use 
 of the latter, but that isn't really the case. There are a lot of details to keep track of in Neocron. 
 Although the game has just four character classes -- private eye, spy, psi-monk, and gentank -- your 
 choices are complicated, since each class has multiple job options and must also affiliate itself 
 with one of a dozen or so political factions. So even though it takes just a few minutes to decide 
 whether you want to be a fighterlike gentank, wizardlike psi-monk, thieflike spy, or jack-of-all-trades 
 private eye, it takes a lot longer to pick a job, sort through nearly 40 skills, and read over 
 the detailed histories of the factions.   

  The number of different factions actually makes for an intricate web of alliances and rivalries. 
 Neocron features a "sympathy point" system that governs how you can offer your services to different 
 factions. You can work for your own faction and its closest allies at first, and later branch out 
 to working for allies of allies when sympathy points accumulate. Unfortunately, understanding how 
 all the groups relate to one another will require a lot of reading, both in the game and in the 
 manual. You can of course skim over all this stuff and get started in a hurry, but you'll inevitably 
 end up restarting after learning a few things the hard way.   

  Your base of operations is your apartment. There you can access lockers, restore your health, get 
 resurrected with the genetic replicator, use the mobile goguardian storage system, or log on to 
 the citycom computer terminal to accept missions, check e-mail, and so forth. All major game functions 
 are performed in this one place, and the citycom lets you keep in touch with the Neocron community, 
 so the system works very well. You'll even get a different apartment depending on your class and 
 faction -- if you join the Tsunami Syndicate, for example, you'll get a place in the seedy Pepper 
 Park district, complete with neon signs outside your windows. No matter where you start, it's fairly 
 easy to find your way around town. Although there are five big city districts, you can call up 
 the nav-ray system at any time to provide yourself with a dotted line leading right to your destination. 
 Also, a subway provides rapid transit to and from all the districts, and antigravity tubes transport 
 you between the city's many levels.           Killing sewer vermin is about all you do in the early 
 stages of Neocron.    

  After you've dedicated all this effort to figuring out the lay of the land, it's hard not to be 
 disappointed when you start actually playing the game. No matter which character class, job, or 
 faction you choose, you begin with only a few options -- and the most obvious of these is performing 
 missions, brief quests that resemble the missions of Anarchy Online. Unfortunately, there really 
 aren't many interesting missions. At this point, the only ones available are "runners," though 
 they might as well be called "dull errands." Most of them are combat-intensive expeditions in which 
 you kill irradiated vermin of one sort or another for a reward of cash and experience. It's about 
 as interesting as it sounds.   

  Fighting a battle in Neocron is like playing a first-person shooter, meaning that you select a 
 weapon, point, and shoot at your enemies. The most challenging part of these adventures is staying 
 awake, as most enemies do nothing but sit there and alternately absorb damage and dish it out. 
 Many missions have been made artificially time-consuming with long respawn times -- for instance, 
 you may need to kill five spiders, but you'll find only a few at first, and after you kill them, 
 you'll have to wait for at least 10 minutes for more to appear. Otherwise, Neocron's other missions 
 involve delivering packages from one faction headquarters to another, taking up recycling, or working 
 on research blueprints. These missions are even more boring than the bug hunts, although they do 
 help you learn the layout of the city.    

 Neocron's missions also don't emphasize the differences between the game's character classes. A 
 private eye gets the same job offers as a gentank, and a psi-monk seems to get the same job offers 
 as a spy. This lack of diversity understandably hurts character development. And because so many 
 missions involve combat, it's much easier to play as and advance characters who are skilled in 
 fighting. Taking a spy or a psi-monk into the sewers to go on a bug hunt for credits and experience 
 can be frustrating, because they lack the physical skills necessary for effective melee combat. 
 These characters may become very powerful once they gain many experience levels, but most players 
 probably won't have the patience to advance that far.           Using the nav-ray is as easy as 
 following a dotted line.    

  In addition, although Neocron has an interesting background story, the game itself is pretty illogical. 
 Factions assign generic tasks regardless of their own agendas or areas of expertise. For instance, 
 Diamond Real Estate asks you to kill bats, while the City Mercs need help with construction jobs -- it 
 doesn't really make sense, and none of the factions make any distinctions when assigning missions 
 to different character classes. Combat-heavy tasks are perfect for the dull-witted gentanks, who 
 are bred solely for fighting, but there's nothing specifically for psi-monks, private eyes, and 
 spies. You'd at least hope that these missions would consist of low-level busywork that you could 
 complete and then move on to the really interesting part of the game, but there doesn't seem to 
 be a really interesting part of the game to move on to.   

  Since these missions are the best way to earn cash, you'll find them particularly repetitive, especially 
 if you hope to purchase one of Neocron's criminally expensive high-level items. Though the game 
 has some intriguing items you can buy, including combat vehicles like tanks and hoverbikes, they're 
 prohibitively expensive for casual players who can't afford to spend countless hours performing 
 the same 400-credit mission over and over so they can buy a 35,000-credit laser pistol, to say 
 nothing of the vehicles, which cost hundreds of thousands of credits. Though some high-level players 
 do own and enjoy vehicles and other expensive amenities, it's difficult to imagine anyone other 
 than hard-core fans earning enough credits to buy them.   

  Player-killing isn't even a viable option, since a chip implanted in your character's head prevents 
 you from killing other players or being killed by them. You can remove it, but you still can't 
 effectively begin a life of crime because copbots watch many streets and open fire whenever a weapon 
 is drawn. Also, if you kill too many other players, you'll become a wanted criminal subject to 
 police assault and player killing whenever you log in. About the only interesting thing you can 
 afford to do with other players, at least early on, is holomatch deathmatching (which is free) -- and 
 this is so similar to stereotypical deathmatch play that you could just as easily load up a traditional 
 online shooter without even playing Neocron.   

  But few traditional shooters offer the kind of atmosphere that Neocron does. For one thing, Neocron's 
 different city districts are very distinct. The posh downtown Plaza and Via Rosso districts offer 
 spectacular views of the outside world and secure streets constantly watched by copbots. On the 
 other hand, Pepper Park is the red-light district, a confined and grimy area where sex is the biggest 
 business (this district alone earns Neocron its "M" rating, though there is no explicit nudity) 
 and lawlessness abounds. All bets are off in the outzone, a territory completely abandoned to criminals 
 and anarchists. Neocron's character models are equally well-drawn and animated, although like many 
 other online RPGs, it offers only a limited number of face, body, and clothing types, so you'll 
 sometimes feel like you're surrounded by an army of clones. Neocron's audio also brings the world 
 to life. Every monster in the game has a signature sound effect, and the game's musical score somehow 
 mixes sci-fi majesty with depressing noir. Plus, the city's public announcement system keeps you 
 up-to-date on current events and threats.           Some of Neocron's content is decidedly risqu. 
    

  Neocron is also remarkably stable. The game plays smoothly and is virtually lag-free, even on a 
 56k dialup connection. Crashes are rare. We experienced just a few bugs and never lost connection 
 to any of the four game servers completely, an impressive feat for a massively multiplayer online 
 game. Reakktor is also constantly adding content and fixing bugs by way of patch downloads. Nearly 
 20 patches have been released since the game hit stores, and though you may experience problems 
 getting the patch program to actually patch the game, it's clear that Reakktor is dedicated to 
 improving the game in the future.   

  Like so many massively multiplayer games in the weeks after their launch dates, Neocron ultimately 
 doesn't live up to its potential. The game's technology is impressive, its background story is 
 interesting, its character-creation process is detailed, and its setting is an intriguing combination 
 of traditional science fiction and noir. It's possible that Reakktor could improve the game considerably 
 with new features and more-diverse missions, but for now, none of Neocron's interesting story elements 
 or great atmosphere mean much when all you're able to do is stomp bugs and deliver packages.   
  
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (5 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: siiixon
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 25, 2006 9:56 am PT
Review:  so i tested Neocron yesterday, it was not easy to sigh up for the free trial with out giving them 
 my bank account info, but i managed finally after few hours trying.
  
  let me tell you did not miss anything, horrible-terrible piece of software, 1st of its not a FPS 
 nor strategic shooter, it has SOME FPS elements so lame that wolfenstein3d would beat it in some/several 
 categories, there where like massively 2 other people on the server.
  
  graphics is bad, physics its so bad that it would not even fly as a joke, i had my chin down the 
 entire time it was so bad, disaster would not describe the horror i had to endure : ) .
  
  Might noticed that there are no REAL screenshots on the Neocron. com website, it has a reason : 
 they dont want to scare away the 3 customers they might have. game spot has screenshots, to bad 
 i did not look 1st here, i mean just take a look at the screenshots they talk for them self, this 
 is soooo 10 years ago technology and that at best
  
  Avoid! I cant say much about the community because i did not saw anyone, there where a guy chatting 
 with the help bit somewhere, so that all i saw of the massive (lol) community
  
  after 6 hour download, 1 hour patching , 2 hour signup for free 10 day try, and 2 hour game play, 
 the UN-installation and subscription cancellation where actually the only pleasant and fast experiences 
 I had
  
  also watch out! its 10/11euro / month , YET they charge you 26/29euro for the 1st month and its 
 not clear how much the later months will be, there IS mentioning of extra fees 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alucard7321
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 3, 2006 5:19 am PT
Review:  Qouting a player from this game:
  
  "A game that allows you to kill other players then steal their items and weapons from their back 
 pack is destined to attract alot of idiots and ****
  
  Very true statement. I played this game for about a year and half and in that amoutn of time was 
 in many clans and followed and went against many of the trends in the community thi sgame had to 
 offer.
  
  First of all, the game IS fun, i could replay it again probably and find some decent fun out of 
 it, the only problem is the community is terrible.
  
  It consists of mostly angry teenage American or German kids who either use hacks or are just plain 
 obsessed about the game till they never go offline.
  
  That isn't the bad part, the bad part is it was an huge unbalanced game because of popular clans 
 attracting most of the idiots from the game to join them. People who joined those clans were normal 
 peeps or weren't that bad before but because of sheer peer pressure and the fear of losing their 
 stuff if they get killed, they joined those clans.
  
  So in other words it had this horrible like PRISON atmosphere to it.... NOT the game, the community 
 did, and when a game's community develops that, then i think its downhill from there on in for 
 the game.
  
  All-in-all, the game has some sluggish weapons but other than that once you get used to the interface 
 etc it IS a fun game, its just a shame that the players you'll be fighting alongside with will 
 be half your age! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AraxTheBold
Rating: 3
Date: Oct 16, 2005 3:52 pm PT
Review:  Its interesting to note that Neocron calls itself Neocron 2 now. Im not exactly sure why, considering 
 its the same game it was before, but now with another confusing city to get lost in. I must admit 
 I did get addicted with the idea of a MMO where you actually have to aim your weapon over the critters. 
 But its not exactly implemented correctly because in order to get a good shot off you have to hold 
 your aim for a second to reduce your target reticule and even the slightest movement of the mouse 
 will reset it completely, making you have to aim all over again, makes sense if every weapon was 
 a sniper rifle, but hey, Im holding a friggin shotgun! 
  Maybe this is a minor complaint from a noob, but it is one of many. From the confusing character 
 creation process and starting areas, your not exactly sure what the heck your suppose to be doing 
 or where your suppose to go. You can see in chat a number of people bickering at each other about 
 who is more leet, but its rare that you actually see anybody. You cannot carry more then a few 
 kills worth of loot at a time, making trips back and forth to the pawnshop tedious. There are 
 also loading problems, when the word "synchronizing" will hover on your screen an indomitable amount 
 of time forcing you to relog.
  This game could have been much better, so could the graphics, which look like there straight from 
 the play station 1. Putting armor on doesnt even change your characters appearance, I did see 
 a couple of higher level guys (who always tend to bend over and look at the feet for some reason) 
 wearing hooded specter of death type clothes, but other then that everyone looks basically the 
 same in there Neo meets Hon Solo attire.
  Buildings are dark confusing and easy to get lost in. And the environment is very claustrophobic. 
 In time locations do become more second nature, but its not very noob friendly when they spread 
 the shops all over the place instead of putting the ones within the same level range closer togother. 
 Whats more frustrating are the things your able to do and use in the tutorial may be things that 
 you will not be able to equip right away if ever in the actual game.
  Neocron 2 seems to me to be a German experiment where they stand around and giggle at the poor 
 people that are actually trying to figure this thing out. We are rats in their maze. 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: snake22
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 1, 2005 9:36 pm PT
Review:  When I read up on this game I was very excited with all the possibilities that where presented 
 on the box and on several websites. In reality you are very limited to what you can do and most 
 of the time you are just in 1 sewer/open area till you level then move on to the next... and that 
 is about it. 
  
  The game is easily macro'ed and you will find that most people level up certain aspects of their 
 characters by using a macro system and going AFK in their apartment. 
  
  The crafting system isnt all that bad and is actually worth doing (unlike some other MMORPG's) . 
 
  
  One of my biggest issues is that Twilight Guardian who are enemies of all that dwell in Neocron 
 have such easy access to the city.. seems stupid to me.
  
  My BIGGEST issue with the game is being able to loot the bodies of people you have killed, what 
 you end up having is high level TG going into low level sewers and completely emptying a newbies 
 inventory.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tyrael
Rating: 4.7
Date: Jun 7, 2003 11:12 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game, at least judging by the demo, once I got the real thing I never really got 
 to find out. The begi nning of the game is not only confusing, even after playing the tutorial 
 and dmeo, and incredibly boring. The review says you hunt rats, well you struggle to do that. Any 
 ememy in the beninning has to power to kill you incredibly easy, and with your gun that barley 
 touches their health, youreprobobly gonna die 2-3 times for every kill. After the beinning, who 
 knows? I'm not gonna put in the 6 hours of trying to kill a scorpion to find out. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
