-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: NetStorm: Islands at War
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/netstormislandsatwar/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 18, 1997
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.1
Critic Score: 6.3, 3 Review (s)
User Score: 8.1, 69 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision
Developer: Titanic Ent.
Genre: Strategy
Date:     Oct 31, 1997

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Despite its numerous strengths, the game just doesn't have much longevity. 

 With NetStorm: Islands at War, Titanic Entertainment has entered into two incredibly saturated fields 
 at once: It is both a real-time strategy game and a game intended for online play. But despite 
 the seeming me-too-ness of it all, NetStorm actually tackles both fields with some nice innovations. 
 It's certainly not just another Command &amp; Conquer clone, and Titanic has done a great job of 
 overcoming the inherent problems of playing on the Internet. But despite its numerous strengths, 
 the game just doesn't have much longevity.  

 Gameplay is a very different affair and somewhat difficult to describe. You control an island watched 
 over by a priest who resides there. Your basic goal is to capture your opponents' priests and sacrifice 
 them to one of the four elemental furies - Sun, Rain, Wind, and Thunder. To do this, you must build 
 a temple, a workshop, and an altar. With the exception of the altar, the buildings are aligned 
 with one of the furies and determine which type of technology will be available to you during the 
 game. To actually capture an enemy priest, you must build bridges from your island to your opponent's 
 (a strange, Tetris-style process that sounds out of place but actually adds some interesting strategic 
 elements) , then render the priest immobile with your weapons (more on those later) . After he's 
 transported back to your island and tied up to your altar, you choose a new technology from a menu. 
 Your chosen technology will be available to you once the sacrifice is complete.  

 War in NetStorm is waged with stationary weapons, and the most interesting aspect of the game is 
 the balance of these artillery weapons. Each of the elemental alignments has a number of weapons 
 of varying strengths. The basic balance is such: The stronger a weapon is, the less versatile it 
 is. Weaker weapons (such as the sun-disc thrower) can fire in any direction, while powerful weapons 
 (the thunder cannon) can only fire in a straight line in a predetermined direction. This balance 
 makes for some interesting moments, as the strongest, most expensive weapon in the game can be 
 destroyed by a cheap, weak weapon in its blind spot.  

 NetStorm does have a single-player mode, but it plays more like practice for the online arena. The 
 game can be played with up to eight players on Activision's free server. There are some interesting 
 twists to Internet play. For one, you don't immediately have access to all technological levels. 
 You have to win them by sacrificing priests, and your new technologies carry over from one game 
 to the next. Titanic's promise of no lag is almost completely true, and if a server disconnects 
 in midgame, the game is saved, someone else is declared the server, and an attempt is made to reconnect 
 everyone and resume. While it doesn't always work, it's effective when it does.  

 There are a few problems with NetStorm, enough that the game suffers a bit in the longevity department. 
 The research tree lacks a little depth, and there aren't enough technology levels to really inspire 
 you to move beyond a certain level. There's also the issue of the game's inherent design - while 
 it is fun, it assumes that it will be easy to find players of your own skill level,. If there aren't 
 that many players on a given server (and there haven't been many players at all during the first 
 few weeks) , finding someone even within a five-level range of you can be tricky. There's also the 
 problem of not encouraging evenly matched games; you get the same reward for sacrificing a Level 
 1 priest as a Level 31 priest. So there's no real point - apart from honor - in playing against 
 higher levels opponents and every incentive for playing those at lower levels.  

 NetStorm's innovations make it a solid game, especially if you need a diversion from the typical 
 real-timer. With a deeper technology tree and some encouragement for evenly matched battles (as 
 well as some means of discouraging the rampant cheating) , it would have received an unqualified 
 recommendation. Let's just hope NetStorm is successful enough to warrant a sequel.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (3 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: admiral_picard
Rating: 7.4
Date: Aug 7, 2006 3:24 pm PT
Review:  Netstorm is an old RTS game that has a unique premise. It is based on islands floating very high 
 in the sky and you must build bridges to other islands. Your primary currency is Gems which you 
 get from Storm Geysers. You can get them several ways, such as from a Golem (A sort of human if 
 you will) , Crystal Crab (Which is a robotic crab) , or an Airship (Which is a large ship that has 
 a lot of strength) , and even a Cloud which cannot take damage. 
  
  Your main goal is to capture the enemy priest and sacrifice them. You can defend your island and 
 build weapons in the air at the end of bridge pieces, as long as you have the necessary energy 
 elements to build it. Theres also some spells you can find that do special things.
  
  This game is very fun, but why bother listening to me? Play it for yourself. If I am not mistaken 
 the game is no longer sold anywhere and you can download the free full-version at NetstormHQ. com 
 as this game is classified as Abandonware. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: infernocow
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 2, 2005 6:34 pm PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying that Netstorm is a GREAT game, and is one of my favorite online strategy 
 games. I've been playing it since back in 1997, and I still look for privately run servers to try 
 and brush up on my skills.
  
  We'll start with the weak points. At the forefront of this category is the online leveling system. 
 Activision's system consists of 43 levels, each level gained by sacrificing an enemy priest and 
 selecting technology from the somewhat small arsenal available to be unlocked. There is no safeguard 
 against unfair play here. Often times two players will be forced to play together for one reason 
 or another (Simple lack of a better option being the most common reason) , and if the person at 
 the disadvantage is not the battlemaster, there is no handicap to aid them. While some may view 
 this as a strong point, I certainly did not... as it made it very easy for a more experienced but 
 less skilled player to simply out power a newer player and gain somewhat unwarranted bonuses.
 
  
  The only other real weak point I found in the game was the single player campaigns, but this is 
 understandable. This game was made for online play. It even suggests this in the title, given the 
 fact that "Netstorm" has nothing to do with the game other than the fact that people play on the 
 "net." The campaign merely serves as a slight taste of what's to come in the multiplayer realm. 
 It serves well as a warm up, in other words.
  
  Now onto the good things. First we have the premise. Personally, I find it very compelling and 
 unique. Floating islands in a mysterious cloud realm with mystical priests and powerful furies 
 combined with interesting and quirky technology. It really adds depth and immersion to the already 
 interesting gameplay. 
  
  As I just mentioned, Netstorm's gameplay is certainly entertaining. The standard "click and drop" 
 works very well in this application and compliments the setting very well. The mood of the game, 
 unlike many overhead perspective strategy games, remains rather like the initial impression you 
 get from cutscenes. The basic feel stays there, and that helps you stay immersed in the world and 
 also makes the cutscenes more effective. 
  
  The way the units are oriented is also very well done. Each unit, as is the case with most strategy 
 games, has it's up side and it's down side, which forces you to make the right choice for the right 
 situation. For example, the more powerful the weapon gets, the less versatile it tends to become. 
 If you were say trying to break through an enemy's defenses of barricades, a powerful weapon such 
 as the Thunder Cannon would suffice, as there is no precision involved in blowing the crap out 
 of a large broad target. However, this weapon doesn't target flying units (at least not in any 
 useful fashion) , and it can easily be destroyed by smaller units posted in it's many blind spots.
 
  
  The units are also split into four categories, based on the four furies (Gods, basically) found 
 in the premise. There is Sun, Rain, Wind and Thunder. It would be worth your effort when leveling 
 up in Multiplayer mode to concentrate on developing one element before moving onto the next, because 
 each element is dependant on the specific generator assigned to it. E. g: units aligned with Rain 
 can run only on rain generators, not thunder or wind. The only exception to this is for sun aligned 
 units, which could use any or all three.
  
  The final aspect of gameplay that I'd like to comment on is the bridge building. This can be either 
 your saving grace or your utter downfall... and unfortunately it's partly a matter of luck. In order 
 to connect the many islands scattered across the map, you must built bridges. Bridges serve several 
 purposes. They can be used for defense (You can block other people's paths. This tactic works very 
 well with the "Bridge Harden" spell which renders your bridge invincible) , You use it for assault 
 (You build units off the bridge) , and of course you use it for mining and exploration (You use 
 it to reach storm power geysers so your ground based units can gather currency for you to spend 
 on all your crap) . In order to build the bridges, you must select from a bank of bridge pieces 
 located at the top left corner of the screen. There are anywhere from two to six different pieces 
 to choose from at one time (It depends on whether you're playing the campaign or online, and if 
 online it depends on who is serving the batter because (s) he has control over such things) . If 
 you don't get the right piece at the right time, especially if you're in a race with your opponent 
 to gain something like a geyser or a piece of land, it can mean your eventual demise. This adds 
 an interesting aspect to the gameplay, but it can get annoying at times. ESPECIALLY if your mouse 
 is subpar, or you're a poor laptop user without a mouse using a touchpad.
  
  Sound wise, the game is okay. There's nothing that will really blow you away. There are nice elemental 
 sound effects: screeching eagles, whales, wind and thunder. These add nicely to the atmosphere. 
 The battle noises are somewhat quirky. Once you hear the roar of the thundercannon... you'll want 
 to smash your speakers... but otherwise there's nothing that really takes away from the experience. 
 It simply doesn't add anything to it, which is what it should do.
  
  Graphically, for 1997 this game ain't TOO bad. Sure it isn't superfantastically amazing, but it 
 gets the job done, and it is very atmospheric. The battle effects are a little lame... especially 
 the particle effects and explosions, but like the sound, it doesn't really take away from the game. 
 It just doesn' t add much.
  
  As for the game's value, I don't know about anyone else but I would still be playing this game 
 today if Activision still had the server up. It's severely addictive, and the online community 
 was diverse and interesting to play with, as long as you stayed away from the elite people who 
 obviously had too much time on their hands. Normally, they belonged to the UCoN clan (United Cereals 
 of Nimbus) , but there were others too.
  
  All in all, this is a great game. I would recommend it to all you strategy fans out there, but 
 the single player campaigns aren't that great, and Activision doesn't operate the server anymore. 
 If you're willing to track down a half decent private server, then it's definitely worth it (They 
 do exist) . This game is also great for LAN parties. Otherwise, I guess it's just another casualty 
 of poor marketing... A great game that will go down in history as the one that was never played. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Everclearules
Rating: 7.6
Date: Apr 19, 2005 5:32 pm PT
Review:  In Netstorm you build your base on islands in the sky. However, many of the islands are fairly 
 small and in order to expand you need more islands. You do have a few flying units at your disposal, 
 but what's the fun in that? Instead you may build up bridges between islands and also build buildings 
 at the end of a bridge, which also creates an island just big enough for that building. You must 
 be quick though, for if you leave a bridge unfinished for too long it will crumble and fall. On 
 the other hand, if you build too fast, the bridges you lay down will start off weak (crumbling) 
 and will fall faster and be destroyed easier.
  
  Bridge building is a very big part of this game and in truth, plays out somewhat like tetris. You 
 have a 'production window' which houses 6 random bridges which come in various shapes and sizes 
 (like tetris blocks) . Whenever you place a bridge a new part takes the place of the previous one, 
 but as I said earlier, it starts out cracked and needs a few seconds before it turns solid. You 
 can still place cracked bridges but they are unstable and with too much weight or an explosion 
 nearby will see it falling from the sky. As such, it should only be used as a last resort. Getting 
 bridges where you want can be a bit tedious while you're learning but in the end makes the game 
 a bit less repetitive since you'll never be able to place bridges the exact same way.
  
  Another use for bridges is the fact that you don't have any land attacking units, all your attacks 
 must be done by buildings. The use? The fact that you can place these buildings at the end of your 
 bridges allowing you to strategically place offensive buildings (turrets, cannons, etc...) to take 
 out enemy offensive buildings. Since offensive buildings all have upsides and downsides (some may 
 do less damage but can shoot in all directions, some may do more damage and have a longer range 
 but can only shoot in one direction, etc... etc...) , it allows you to strategically place your 
 structures. You can also click on an enemy structure to see it's range and direction to help you 
 with this.
  
  You may also find yourself not being able to get the perfect location for one of your cannons but 
 the game provides another option. Defensive buildings. Buildings such as this can take quite a 
 few blows before falling while allowing your cannons to shoot right through them without taking 
 any damage. They don't last forever but they can easily be replaced and can provide all the time 
 you need to take down an enemies building.
  
  However, you can't just build buildings anywhere since they all need energy, and some a specific 
 energy. All that requires is building a generator, which has quite a bit of range, of that specific 
 energy to provide energy to those buildings. Sometimes chains of generators must be built in order 
 to get your cannons to another island. And of course, building all these requires money. Money 
 in the form of crystals. Your island will usually include a fair number of 'Geysers' surrounding 
 it, which you must build bridges to and send in a unit to mine them. Although, there is flying 
 unit that allows you to collect crystals without having to build bridges.
  
  Construction of buildings is also a different matter. At first you only have a Temple and a Priest. 
 The priest may build up a fair amount of buildings, though you need to build a workshop in order 
 to build units and cannons. Many buildings also have a specific type of energy required and therefore 
 a certain generator must be built to be able to build those. Generators as well as cannons, however, 
 don't require a priest to bulid them. For those they just need an energy source and a cool little 
 blue arrow will fly towards the building following your bridges and build the building without 
 you having to send your Priest into the battle.
  
  All this will eventually lead up to attacking the enemies Priest, which requires blowing down his 
 defenses and knocking him unconcious with a cannon. Then you must sacrifice him to the 'furies' 
 to win the game in single player, or learn new spells in multiplayer. 
  
  All this adds up to one unique game in a genre where few ever stand out. Netstorm combines many 
 different gaming elements, and almost feels like an arcade game in addition to being a strategy. 
 It requires a good balance of speed, yet caution, and therefore could very well appeal to gamers 
 of all type, and I'd certainly recommend it to everyone. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
