-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Neverwinter Nights: Hordes of the Underdark
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/neverwinternightsxp2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec  8, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.2
Critic Score: 8.4, 31 Review (s)
User Score: 8.8, 2,362 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Atari
Developer: BioWare
Genre: Computer Role-Playing
Date:     Dec 2, 2003
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Hordes of the Underdark is a solid expansion pack that adds a substantial single-player campaign 
 and interesting new options for multiplayer enthusiasts. 

  Hordes of the Underdark is the second expansion pack for BioWare's popular Dungeons &amp; Dragons 
 role-playing game, Neverwinter Nights. The original was a combination of a single-player role-playing 
 game, an editing tool to create your own custom adventures, and a multiplayer role-playing client. 
 Sure enough, Hordes makes additions in each of these areas. The expansion's substantial single-player 
 campaign should last most players 15-20 hours, and while it doesn't have many surprises, it does 
 offer some worthwhile new features that Neverwinter Nights fans should enjoy.  

          Hordes of the Underdark takes place in the perilous depths beneath the Forgotten Realms. 
     

  The expansion's single-player campaign picks up the story where the previous expansion pack, Shadows 
 of Undrentide, left off. You're still a lone adventurer, though you're now in the town of Waterdeep -- a 
 major city in the Forgotten Realms setting -- which is under attack by the titular hordes of the 
 Underdark. You end up descending into these cavernous regions to discover and halt the source of 
 the attacks. Thankfully, you don't have to go it alone; you're rejoined by several traveling companions 
 from both the original Neverwinter Nights and Shadows of Undrentide -- including the cackling kobold 
 bard Deekin.  

  This time around, you can recruit up to two followers to join you (instead of having only one as 
 in the previous games) so that you can actually have some semblance of a well-rounded adventuring 
 party. However, having a larger party can be both a blessing and a curse. Although the extra firepower 
 is welcome in the challenging confines of the Underdark, you still don't have direct control over 
 your followers. This means that, just like in the previous game, they'll occasionally charge after 
 a large group of monsters you may have hoped to avoid or ambush, or they'll sometimes get lost 
 or end up too far away to help. However, a larger party means that you can better compensate for 
 your own character's weaknesses. Additionally, Hordes lets you manipulate your henchmen's inventory, 
 and it lets you direct their paths of advancement. Several of the characters who join you are "multiclass" 
 characters who follow more than one profession, so you can direct them to advance in certain classes 
 in favor of others.  

  The expansion pack offers some other interesting features, such as all-new professions for your 
 own character to specialize in. Hordes offers several new advanced prestige classes, like the champion 
 of Torm, the weapon master, and the red dragon disciple. (The latter eventually grows a pair of 
 wings and even gains the ability to breath fire.) All classes can benefit from the use of the gatehouse, 
 which is an interdimensional hub area that your character can jump to and from at will. The gatehouse 
 is especially useful because, when used in conjunction with magical rogue stones, it lets your 
 character establish a recall point. This means that you can jump back to the gatehouse to rest 
 and recover from injuries sustained during some difficult exploring. Then you can return to the 
 dungeons with fresh legs. Early in the game, your character also recovers a djinni bottle, which 
 contains a portable merchant. This allows you to quickly and easily sell off all of those heavy 
 magical treasures you'd otherwise be carrying around.  

  As you might expect from a game that lets your characters advance to the godlike experience level 
 of 40, you'll pick up quite a bit of impressive loot in Hordes, and you'll fight off a number of 
 formidable adversaries. Fans of the Forgotten Realms can expect to tangle with just about every 
 single adversary you'd expect to find in the Underdark, like beholders, mind flayers, umber hulks, 
 driders, and plenty of drow elves. It seems safe to say that the Hordes campaign is probably the 
 toughest Neverwinter Nights adventure yet (player-made modules notwithstanding) . Even if you don't 
 already have a powerhouse character from the previous games, the expansion lets you start out with 
 a level-15 character. Thankfully, the game is paced quickly enough for your character to grow in 
 power so that he or she can more effectively take on the next challenge.  

  Despite the fact that you will face some truly epic battles in Hordes, you may feel like you're 
 facing the same sorts of straightforward hack-and-slash fights that you saw in Neverwinter Nights 
 and Shadows of Undrentide. You'll fight a small group of enemies, and you'll be able to sustain 
 more damage -- but so will they. When the dust finally settles, you'll loot a +3 longsword rather 
 than the +1 longsword you would have picked up earlier. You may also find it odd that you can routinely 
 waltz into a dungeon and find piles of high-level loot lying around on the ground. Furthermore, 
 it's doubtful you'll find Hordes' puzzles to be terribly enjoyable. As in many of BioWare's other 
 role-playing games, several of the new game's puzzles require you to perform such uninteresting 
 tasks as flipping a bunch of switches in the correct order or going on a scavenger hunt. However, 
 if you've been playing BioWare's role-playing games for some time, this sort of thing probably 
 won't bother you in the slightest. In fact, you'll likely have a decent enough time fighting your 
 way through the Underdark in the meantime.  

          The expansion pack adds all-new prestige classes, exceptionally high epic levels, and new 
 content for the editor.     

  Hordes also adds all-new Underdark tilesets, creatures, and objects to Neverwinter Nights' already-powerful 
 editor. At launch, servers running the expansion weren't 100 percent compatible with players who 
 didn't already own it, though BioWare is currently working on patching this issue. This incompatibility 
 is unfortunate, but it's clear that the addition of the expansion's new tileset, objects, and creatures -- along 
 with the new prestige classes and magical items -- will provide a strong foundation for all-new player-made 
 adventures for months to come. We also encountered occasional stability problems and infrequent 
 crashes on setups using ATI Radeon graphics cards, though we experienced no problems on setups 
 with Nvidia GeForce cards. These problems can be annoying, but they're reportedly rare.  

  Hordes also looks and sounds good. The expansion's new underdark areas and monsters are well done, 
 though, like the graphics from the original game, they seem somewhat blocky and lacking of detail -- particularly 
 when viewed from up close. This is especially true of the cinematic cutscenes in the campaign, 
 which occasionally feature key characters who are speaking -- or bobbing their heads while gesticulating 
 stiffly. Unlike other recent RPGs, such as BioWare's own Knights of the Old Republic, Hordes lacks 
 facial animations or lip-synching. The expansion also reuses some sound effects and music from 
 the previous games, though its new speaking characters deliver their lines competently. Hordes 
 also features a great deal of all-new music that seems much more sweeping and appropriately epic. 
 Ultimately, Hordes of the Underdark is a solid expansion pack that adds a substantial single-player 
 campaign and interesting new options for multiplayer enthusiasts.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (35 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: KingLim
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 17, 2008 5:33 am PT
Review:  Given my previous grumble with the first expansion, Hordes made me a happy fan of the Neverwinter 
 Nights series again. One of the best features is definitely the Epic upgrade and the whopping level 
 40 cap. Especially for mages, there are tons of new spells with wicked abilities and satisfying 
 damage score, like the Bigby's Crushing Hand and Isaac's Greater Missile Storm. Some of the new 
 classes played out very well against the high level enemies, and I got a kick out of the Red Dragon 
 Disciple together along with the Epic spells.
  
  With a larger scale of assets, the campaign is significantly more lengthy too. This time round, 
 there are lots of grand battles to let your massive spells feast on, though the experience points 
 aren't much. The strange thing is, as you reach around level 25 onwards, the amount of experience 
 you get per kill drastically drops, to the point where an "impossible" rated monster nets you only 
 200 xp out of the 20,000 xp climb per character level. That means... you don't actually get to 
 level 40 in your first playthrough, which sucks.
  
  Irregardless, Hordes of the Underdark is still a great game to enjoy in its glorious portrayal 
 of epic-ness and tightly knitted challenges.
  
  KingLim 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talonfire
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 16, 2008 9:53 am PT
Review:  Bioware releases a lot of hit and miss titles that get endless praise, the only exception being 
 the Neverwinter Nights OC which is universally considered abysmal. Hordes of the Underdark is the 
 second expansion to the original Neverwinter Nights, and unlike Shadows of Undrentide this one 
 was developed by Bioware.
  
  Hordes is a pseudo-sequel to Shadows of Undrentide, featuring the same protagonist but an entirely 
 new "plot line" that is in no way related to the one from Shadows. Essentially your character starts 
 off in Waterdeep with no explanation on what happened after he or she fell into the Plane of Shadows. 
 They are in Waterdeep after hearing about a call for heroes.
  
  Apparently the Drow are getting uppity, and are attacking Waterdeep via Undermountain... an always 
 changing dungeon owned by the mad mage Halastar. Hordes is split into three chapters that practically 
 have nothing to do with one another, Hordes is essentially three mini-stories in one game. Each 
 chapter has a different antagonist, setting, and storyline making Hordes feel, in my opinion, very 
 disjointed. It's not a bad campaign, it has its positive points, but it feels like three different 
 plots sloppily thrown together. The stories themselves are not particularly remarkable.
  
  The campaign may be a bit disjointed, but the new content added in Hordes makes it worth the price 
 of admission for module builders and power gamers. You're now able to go up to level 40 (as pointless 
 as that is) , and there's new classes, and prestige classes. Module builders also get some new very 
 well designed tile sets, monsters, items, etcetera to choose from.
  
  For me Hordes of the Underdark has always been a hit and miss title since I first played it when 
 it came out. Replaying it, I feel the exact same way. The campaign has its good points, but it 
 feels disjointed, and the storyline is not anything remarkable. Still, the new gameplay features 
 and toolset content can be fun to make use of. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FallenAngelXBL
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 19, 2008 12:04 pm PT
Review:  Hey GS
  
  Id like to put down how I Score games (this is important if you want to understand why my score 
 is so 'low') :
  1 - Utter rubbish
  2 - Utter rubbish
  3 - rubbish
  4 - average
  5 - Good
  6 - Pretty good
  7 - Great
  8 - Greater than 7
  9 - Awesome
  10 - so great 
 ill never review a game that's this good... period.
  
  This is the 3rd REAL game in the Neverwinter Nights series. Which include of course Neverwinter 
 Nights, and Shadows of Undrentide, which i have reviewed also if you want to check them out. This 
 IS a direct continuation of SoU if you use a premade character from SoU (not sure if it is if you 
 use a different one, haven't checked) . You have to have played the others fully to play this as 
 it only JUST touches on the story of the past games and uses a few memorable characters from the 
 past such as Deekin the Kobold Bard... yeah i know... weird huh? Anyway, lets get started.
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  The graphics once again HAVE NOT CHANGED... well not much anyway. There have been 
 some clean ups and alterations to the engine making it look prettier than the other games, but 
 still keeping with the dated yet great Aurora Engine. New spell effects look good and if im not 
 mistaken, they have made some of the particle effects on older spells look better to keep up with 
 the standard of new spells.
  
  SOUND
  
  With the return of past characters, theres obviously some old actors, which is good, but theres 
 also some new actors... although few, are up to the same standard as the others. Theres another 
 great soundtrack with some recycled tracks but still as epic as ever. Now for the bad parts. RECYCLED 
 CHARACTER BATTLE CRIES AND CHANTS! I mean seriously... this is getting ridicules, they have used 
 the same chants and cries since baldurs gate ONE! which is ANCIENT. However, they are pretty awesome 
 chants and cries...
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  Whilst SoU was story light and action heavy, this installment is more in the middle. You have a 
 epic 20 hour plot and some awesome battles. Which is a winning formula. You also have the underdark 
 to battle through. Which if your not a DnD nerd as i am (lol) is basically a huge underground dungeon 
 that is the home to the most powerful beings know to man... and some not even known to us! As well 
 as this its filled with deadly traps, portals and secret doors filled with puzzles to keep you 
 on your toes. Its also the home of the Drow, or the Dark Elves... who rock. This game also steps 
 up on difficulty. But to counter this, you start at level 15 so you can handle it without much 
 of a problem... until later on of course. Theres plenty of dragons and armies of demons and drow 
 to fight to keep you entertained and a story that sits in the background thats gradually builds 
 up when your not looking. This expansion also adds some more tool set gear to keep you happy aswell 
 as a few tweaks to classes and a level cap increase. Which is all good. However, the downside to 
 this expansion has to be the Puzzles, they are generic, and boring and ou wish you could just get 
 on with the killing and plot development. 
  
  OVERALL
  
  Despite the puzzles this is a solid expansion and a fitting end to a great RPG series. I recommend 
 it to those who loved the others and want something new. And just to add, im NOT reviewing King 
 maker. Its not a real game, its a MOD thats been released properly so stop sending me mail about 
 it. Its good, but i don't review mods. 
  
  Oh yeah, just to add, if you add this to the other 2 games, you have 100 hours of gameplay out 
 of this series... well worth the amount they charge nowadays. 
  
  6.5/10 Not great, but worth your money 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Voldy26
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 13, 2007 8:06 am PT
Review:  When I watched the opening sequence of HotD, I wasn't impressed. Okay, I thought, another power-crazed 
 Dark Lord (or Lady in this case) with horrible lines to boot. Couldn't they have come up with something 
 more original? So great was my disappointment that I stopped playing and didn't return to the game 
 for a long time. When I did, however, I was rewarded. I quickly discovered that there was a lot 
 more to the story than I had thought, and about halfway through the game I realized that there 
 was more than I could have hoped. Hordes of the Underdark features the greatest variety of locations 
 and enemies of all three Neverwinter Nights games, as well as the greatest emphasis on roleplaying, 
 since your actions will determine a great deal of the plot development. Because you begin at a 
 high level (15 or higher if you import your character from the previous two games as I did) , and 
 because there are many powerful magical items in the game, you can become mighty indeed; however, 
 the many battles in the game will test your power to its limits. You'll have to do a lot of thinking 
 to win those; brute force will rarely suffice. The bottom line is, whether you are looking for 
 an engrossing storyline, intellectual challenge or a lot of fighting, you most certainly won't 
 be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: limraz
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 13, 2007 2:20 am PT
Review:  Hordes of Underdark is what I want from a RPG - solid leveling and combat in the right mix ! Hordes 
 are way more difficult than Neverwinter and Shadows, with the rare capability to make you immerse 
 in the rich story, different races and a great dungeon exploration. I usually pick Red Dragon Disciple 
 prestige class, with a couple of sorcerer and fighter levels to spice up the fun, while playing 
 all Neverwinter Nights games. Even as half dragon it`s a blast to breathe fire at enemies, cast 
 damaging spells and engage mano-a-mano with one of the most fearsome build. The story is, as always, 
 the main encouragement to play Hordes of Underdark, despite some glitches and sometimes weird quests 
 who need some patience to solve. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alkpaz
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 20, 2007 11:16 pm PT
Review:  I found Hordes simply the best experience for NWN. It has a great storyline and it is down right 
 challenging. As with the original game the mechanics are the same but the expansion offers better 
 weapons/items, tougher enemies, new textures, and (of course) better storyline. If anything NWN 
 should be bought and played only to start your character off then imported into Hordes very quickly.. 
 for this game left me with a sweet taste in my mouth.. If it hadn't been for this expansion.. I 
 would not have bought NWN2.. or ever trusted Bioware again. I feel Bioware felt ashamed after NWN's 
 strong Multi and lackluster SP that they created Shadows.. for those wishing for a better story 
 driven game.. Shadows does this well (granted you must play it at level 1) but Hordes is what combines 
 those two games together, Shadows and the original NWN, for playability with your maxed characters.. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluecrystal09
Rating: 4.8
Date: Feb 17, 2007 5:29 am PT
Review:  I have read the reviews of my fellow gamers, and I am shocked. After playing both the original 
 Neverwinter Nights campaign and the Shadows of Undrentide expansion, I expected a game of similar 
 excellent quality. I was sorely disappointed. Although graphics (especially the cut scenes) had 
 improved, the storyline, which was supposed to take off immediately, felt like it dragged through 
 the mud. Characters made 3-dimensional in the original campaign were suddenly just like everyone 
 else, a 1-dimensional, totally uninteresting and stereotypical character. I rate this expansion 
 poorly because it is indeed a lower-quality game than what I would expect from makers who I know 
 could (and have) done better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_Grave
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 20, 2006 10:31 am PT
Review:  HotU is a great expansion to a game that didn't really impress me. It contains the best single-player 
 campaign, the sequel to SotU campaign, that takes your through the Undermountain and Underdark, 
 a favorite place of many Forgotten Realms fans, finally ending in one of the Nine Hells.
  
  You can finally lead two henchmen through the great campaign. The beginning features some returning 
 characters from NWN and SotU campaigns, while the Underdark chapters adds two very interesting 
 henchmen: Drow Assassin and Tiefling Weapon Master. Henchmen have even bettter tactical controls 
 than in SotU and will not resummon their summoned creatures without reason. The dialogs have radically 
 changed and now include narrative text, much like dialogs in Baldur's Gate and Icewind Dale games.
 
  
  As for content, there are new prestige classes, spells, monsters and a whole new Underdark setting, 
 snow setting and new items for dungeons featured in the Undermountain chapter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Com_Meister32
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 19, 2006 3:52 pm PT
Review:  the only reason why i have never written a review about this game probably because i've been too 
 busy playing it...
  
  its probably the best and most immersive game i have ever played. the community is great for the 
 most part and i would definitely recommend the multiplayer over the singleplayer campaign. the 
 multiplayer aspect just has so much to offer with thousands of user created placeables and mods... 
 the possibilities are basically endless with the amount of modability brought to the game.
  
  the graphics arent really that great compared with new games but what it lacks graphic-wise 
 it makes up for with AWESOME gameplay and wonderful music and voice sets.
  
  i would really really give it a 10 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blazer88
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 6, 2006 6:37 am PT
Review:  Now this the kinda of expansion is what should have been done with SOU, the last one. It it literally 
 overflowing with new content. Adding quite a few new prestige classes (I forgot how many off hand) ,, ton 
 of new spells and feats and at least a few more tilesets. More than that it lts players progress 
 into epic levels by raising the level cap to 40,.. up from 20. The included module is pretty good 
 too,. though still not as long as the original game. it isn't perfect,. there were few things detail 
 oriented that I would have liked to not be as they were like the Red Dragon Disiple being forcable 
 tied to a red dragon whn it didn't have to be,.. same for the Champion of Torm.
  Forunately Obsidian,. the guys doing Neverwinter 2 look to be taking detail to a very high level 
 with that game.
  Anyways HOTU is a great expansion that really shouldn;'t have been the last as BW had more than 
 enought ime to release a couple more over the last few years since this one came out.
  This is Highly Reccomended to complete the game and get the most out of it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: iceteo012
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 25, 2006 3:11 am PT
Review:  I recently just picked up NWN: HOTU again and I'm surprised how well the game has held up over the 
 years. Sure the graphics are not much to look at in this day and age but the gameplay still feels 
 as challenging as when I first played this game years ago. Overall, this expansion has the best 
 story of the NWN series. That and the chance to level up to Epic level of my character class will 
 keep me playing for a long time. And with user created mods still coming in strong, a long life 
 to the NWN series :) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: svig
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 25, 2006 11:13 am PT
Review:  Hordes of the Underdark is the second expansion pack for BioWares celebrated role-playing game 
 Neverwinter nights. The story is set in the subterranean Underdark, one of the most popular and 
 awe-inspiring worlds in the history of D & D. You have recently escaped from a long sojourn on 
 the Plane of Shadow. Your adventure in that dimension has transformed you from a raw novice to 
 a seasoned adventurer. Escaping the planes has made you, the talk of taverns and daydreaming children 
 who seek to emulate your exploits. Beneath the city of Waterdeep lies Underdark and from it armies 
 of darkness have risen to lay siege to the splendid city. You have arrived to save Waterdeep and 
 in so doing you will step from the storybooks of mortal heroes and take your place among the truly 
 epic heroes and heroines of lore. 
  
  Hordes of the Underdark present you with a 20+ hours single player adventure of truly ambitious 
 proportions allowing for the development of God like characters up to level 40. Furthermore you 
 are offered 6 new prestige classes and over 50 new feats and over 40 new spells. Apart from the 
 numerous new character progression additions Hordes of the Underdark also gives you 16 new creatures 
 including the legendary Beholder race. Also added are 4 new tile sets and a vide variety of new 
 toolset functions. 
  
  All in all Hordes of the Underdark is a more than worthy addition to the NWN series with a rich 
 and well fabricated storyline. Its action packed game play has all the betrayal, tragedy and honour 
 we have come to expect of BioWares RPGs in the past. Way to go BioWare!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phantomstrider
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 16, 2006 12:59 am PT
Review:  After the somewhat dissapointing Shadows of the Undrentide came the Hordes of the Underdark expansion 
 to re-wet our NWN appetities.
  The features itself allow alot of new possibilities that player previously would've appreciated 
 such as 2 mercenaries.
  
  The module itself is excellent and not too open-spaced to make you unsure of where to go. The plot 
 has far more of a story-like appearance and is justifiably more linear than the original NWN chapters. 
 Though this feature makes the story all the more interesting and difficult to get away from.
  Unlike The Shadows of the Undrendtide module, you will find yourself immersed in the story and 
 your character's personality and reactions. Through the entire module you are faced with various 
 ordeals to test you and your wandering kobold companion, Deekin. The story's length is just right 
 and keeps in-tact good replay value. Not only this but you will probably find the module considerably 
 more fun than the last 2 NWN modules.
  
  One reason for this is the NPC script size. Companions such as Deekin have both comedy and personality 
 to them that will have you chuckling to yourself as well as being very very detailed in size.
 
  
  Like the original Neverwinter Nights campaign, there is detail to Hordes of the Underdark that 
 you may not notice the first time through. A classic adventure that you yourself will have accomplished. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jtravis05
Rating: 6.3
Date: Feb 6, 2006 9:44 pm PT
Review:  Neverwinter Nights is probably one of the greatest RPGs I ever played. The sense of an epic journey, 
 the feeling of urgency over the crisis at hand, the well-developed NPC characters all made it a 
 story to remember.
  
  Shadows of Undrentide was a weak addition to that legacy, according to many opinions. The quick 
 campaign never gave you a chance to feel like you were doing anything but mulling about awaiting 
 the big boss to appear. 
  
  Hordes of the Underdark picks up where that tale left off, and in many ways improves many of the 
 problems. The three 'acts' of the story are far more expanded. The characters are more interesting, 
 and more useful. The storyline has shades of the strength of the original NWN. But ultimately, 
 for those who loved the first game, this game tries too hard to be a little too epic. 
  
  Its hard to feel like you're accomplishing anything in a game where you level up every hour and 
 every chest has an epic item. Such successes are devalued by the ease with which they come, even 
 at harder skill settings... you're just too darn epic for the world around you halfway through 
 the story. 
  
  Had HOU been a true sequel to NWN, it would have been a fantastic game. As it is it tries to build 
 off the success of the original, and build upwards. The new prestige classes are great (I played 
 through as a Bard/Harper) , but there's something unfulfilling about reaching level 15 halfway through 
 a campaign half as long as the original, just so you can get a few prestige levels. When did the 
 badguys start giving xp away?
  
  If you're reading this review at this point you're probably contemplating the Diamond Edition NWN. 
 I strongly recommend it, even if the sequels are a bit of a letdown. They're still enjoyable (HOU 
 over SOU) , and the premier modules that come with the game are so great they make up for the expansions: 
 Kingmaker and ShadowGuard deserved to be doubled in size, the storyline, action and level designs 
 were that good. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: A_Viper
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 5, 2006 3:11 pm PT
Review:  While the first official expansion pack for Neverwinter Nights was good in that it added new and 
 more powerful character classes, the story seemed tired and was over way too quickly. This is not 
 the case with Hordes of the Underdark.
  
  HotU has quite a dark story, full of mysterious places and characters and enemies that are far 
 more disturbing then any previously seen in Neverwinter Nights or Shadows of Undrentide. The plot 
 is engaging, and draws you in from the start. Plot has been the weakest element in previous NWN 
 games, and it is pleasing that finally the writers have come up with a gem. It features new enemies 
 alongside the traditional skeletons and dragons, and has several new ways of disposing of them 
 (I particularly loved the 'traditional methods' used for slaying vampires) . The story is an epic 
 adventure, featuring intriguing characters and large scale battles, and will keep you entertained 
 for far longer than the disappointing SoU.
  
  HotU adds new epic character classes to the base and champion classes that already existed, meaning 
 that you can create some truly powerful characters. Of course these also add more possibilities 
 for character creation, further allowing you to create your own truly unique characters. 
  
  Another major plus point is the addition of multiple henchmen whos inventories you now have 
 access to. Finally you don't have to stick with your henchmans poor starting weapon or armour, 
 instead giving them new powerful items and allowing them to become powerful allies. You can also 
 instruct them on what elements of their character you wish for them to specialise in, so that you 
 are able to create a more rounded fighting unit, and utilise different party members skills best.
 
  
  HotU also introduces the concept of crafting weapons and armour from base items, which is a cool 
 addition though to be honest you will never be able to craft anything better than some of the items 
 you find during the game, so this is only really useful as a money spinner when playing in the 
 single player campaign.
  
  The sound is excellent throughout the campaign, using subtle background music to add tension as 
 well as dramatic pieces to heighten the excitement during grand battles. The voice acting is also 
 a step forward, as none of the characters ever become irritating to listen too. Most NPCs have 
 a lot more to say in this game, and some are at times genuinely funny. The script and sound departments 
 really have excelled themselves with this project. 
  
  HotU is a must for any NWN fan, as it has all of the original games positves, and eliminates many 
 of its negatives. The single player story is exciting and worth playing through many times. Plus 
 for the fans of the toolset and DM facilities there are many new environments available with this 
 expansion pack that can be used when crafting your own adventure. If you own Neverwinter Nights 
 then this expansion pack is a must buy, as it adds so much and finally delivers the fantastic story 
 that the previous two games just failed to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: globalchimp
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 27, 2005 12:44 pm PT
Review:  Everything I missed in NWN and Shadows of Undrentide (the latter which I eventually only had for 
 the additional classes) was immediately fixed in this expansion.
  The main 2 points being the imo bad storyline and unrewarding item-system.
  I missed, what I 
 had in Baldur's Gate II, in NWN.. and it was brought back with this expansion. Even tho the extra 
 20 lvls and newcharacter classes were the main reason I bought it and if that was all it wouldve 
 brought it would still be worth the 30 bucks imo.
  
  However the the new storylines, though better, is not as multiplayer-friendly at times. Certain 
 bugs may keep you from joining your party or things like that, but overall the expansion is very 
 fun to play through with friends. New in this expansion is that it is now also fun alone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mort2fire
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 22, 2005 5:16 am PT
Review:  Another Expansion Game to enjoy.
  
  My character in this game was the Devil.
  I controled the game, and no one could beat me or cross paths with me.
  
  This Expansion was 
 my Favorite and completed this game in 2 days.
  
  I enjoyed it to much that i never left it alone.
  
  This addon gave you,
  Characters which 
 can achieve Epicstatus of up to level 30, While braving an all new 20 hour campaign.
  
  Epic feats, spells and creatures and demons along with a creepy underdark tileset and new prestige 
 classes.
  
  An Evil environment that makes you want to act evil in the game.
  
  Evil strike evil ---- Who will WIN.
  
  PLAY THE GAME TO FIND OUT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Donkeljohn
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 18, 2005 2:45 pm PT
Review:  During the years Neverwinter Nights was in development, it was touted as the true game port of 
 the legendary pen-and-paper game. When it emerged it was certainly impressive. However, the expansions 
 incrementally included additional content which arguably should have been in the original release.
 
  
  Hordes of the Underdark is the best of the expansions delivering not only additional content for 
 the game, but also delivering a Neverwinter 1.5 experience. Additional content not only included 
 a new single-player campaign set within the bowels of the dangerous Underdark, but also technical 
 add-ons for previously created single- and multiplayer experiences. 
  
  With the addition of Epic levels your custom created character could advance skills beyond the 
 traditional level 20 cap. With additional powers, skills, and feats heroes could hope to defeat 
 the horrible opponents in the Sunless Citadel. New opponents included the dangerous Mind Flayers, 
 all-seeing Beholders, and other denizens of the Underdark. Many of the new models looked impressive 
 and clearly outperformed the blocky, old models (such as the Troll) .
  
  With the additions of items, creatures and some performance tweaking, the minimum system requirements 
 were increased. This was necessary given the visual upgrade and environmental fine-tuning which 
 took place under the proverbial hood. 
  
  With the inclusion of the Aurora toolset in the original Neverwinter Nights release, customization 
 created an enormous grass-roots community. The additions to that community increased in predictable 
 and beautiful ways. Character customization got a shot in the arm with additional armor, weapon, 
 and body types. Multiplayer servers everywhere carried new lines of wearables (including robes) , 
 and reported new races in their census. The camera was unlocked to allow players to pan down from 
 a high-level perspective to a ground-level view. This then allowed players to witness the awesome 
 sights of true Neverwinter Nights in the Neverwinter sky. Sunsets, rain, and starry skies were 
 visible for all.
  
  In an ideal world many of the improvements of HotU would have shipped with the initial release. 
 Nevertheless, the modifications are better late than Never. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 7.7
Date: Nov 8, 2005 9:54 am PT
Review:  Hordes of the Underdark makes a few more improvements to Neverwinter Nights, so if youre a fan 
 of the original game, then you should pick up the expansion. Party control has improved even further, 
 and that makes for improved tactical combat. This is a fun and competent expansion with a few great 
 moments, but it lacks much of anything to put it over the top. It follows mostly the same formula 
 as the original campaign and Shadows of Undrentide, not to mention Biowares other recent games. 
 Many of the major flaws that kept Neverwinter Nights from being a great role-playing game are still 
 here. Hopefully, Biowares future efforts will be better.
  
  Most of the game takes place in massive dungeons underneath the tavern where you start off. The 
 Underdark is full of exotic creatures and hordes of evil Drow, and that makes it a great setting 
 for an adventure. The game has its moments of creativity, like when you encounter a mysterious 
 underground city full of winged elves.
  
  The game pretty much becomes a semi-linear dungeon crawl with the same hub-and-spoke setup that 
 has characterized all of Biowares recent RPGs. Each major area has three or four subquests, which 
 you can do in any order. Then, once youre done, you move on to the next major area. Find the four 
 keys guarded by the four monsters so that you can unlock the door to the next area. Solve a lever 
 pulling puzzle. Then, find the four pieces of the artifact and give it to some NPC who unlocks 
 the next area. You are the one chosen hero who can defeat the great evil. You can either free the 
 slaves that you find, or murder them for sport. And so on, and so forth. Youve seen this a million 
 times. Its not entirely original, but it still works well here.
  
  The graphics and layout of each level are limited by the Neverwinter Nights engine and some of 
 the ugly tilesets that go with it. If you played through the original campaign, Shadows of Undrentide, 
 and a few user-made modules, then you are probably tiring of the NWN look by now. The dungeons 
 are mostly mazes filled with nearly identical building-blocks. This is nothing new to this game, 
 but now that its in its third iteration, the flaws are standing out more. If you have played user-made 
 modules, then youre probably even more sick of it. Add on top of that the fact that almost all 
 of it is underground and youre looking at shades of grey constantly, and this just isnt a great 
 looking game. 
  
  As with all Bioware games, Shadows of Undrentide excels once again with its audio. Namely, the 
 voice acting includes the usual cast of colorful and amusing characters. All of the voice performances 
 are great, once again, especially the kobold bard Deekin who joins you for your quest. There 
 are some nice new musical tracks too, although I dont like the new theme song as much as the old 
 one.
  
  Perhaps the best part about this expansion pack is the huge amount of high level content that you 
 get with it. There are a bunch of new character prestige classes to choose from, tons and tons 
 of new high level abilities, and more major magic items than you can shake a stick at. Regardless 
 of what class you play or what feats and skills you choose, there are tons and tons of goodies 
 there for you. You could easily get two plays out of this expansion pack, just like you could Biowares 
 other games. You can finally get above the 20th level and really wreak some havoc. The original 
 game and Shadows of Undrentide did not allow this, and neither have most of the user-made modules 
 on the internet.
  
  The biggest disappointment is that this expansion pack has no multiplayer. That is a big letdown, 
 considering that multiplayer has always been the strength of Neverwinter Nights to begin with. 
 Seeing as how Bioware made such a mediocre single player game in the original game, its a downer 
 that they didnt go the extra mile to add multiplayer to this one. If you were hoping to go romping 
 through the Underdark with your friends, then youll be disappointed.
  
  Hordes of the Underdark has a good length to it. At least 25 hours or so. When you combine all 
 of the games character classes with dozens of abilities, skills, and feats to play with, youve 
 got a game that you could easily play through again. Add on top of that the ability to use the 
 new stuff in user-made mods, and this pack is an excellent value.
  
  Other than the small modules released on the internet, this expansion pack brings to a close what 
 has been a slightly disappointing series. The series was built to provide a great toolset for module 
 makers and great multiplayer. Bioware succeeded at this, but the Neverwinter Nights has always 
 been characterized by ugly, repetitive tile-based environments, underachieving single player games, 
 simple hub-and-spoke questing, and repetitive combat that lacks tactics. The inability to control 
 your retarded henchmen has always limited the fun factor of the games combat. Some community modules 
 have been decent, but they have never been as good as the best professionally-produced content 
 in the business. Hordes of the Underdark is the best iteration of the formula, but its not a terrific 
 game. Hopefully, NWN2 and Dragon Age will see a renewed focus on single player campaigns 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dan8080
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 22, 2005 8:41 pm PT
Review:  This is by far the best NWN campaign I have played. My previous favorite was a user-created module 
 "war of the wolf" or something. I felt that the other campaigns of NWN & Shadows stunk. I did not 
 play past the firs stage due to boredom. This campaign though was even better than all the user-created 
 modules I played!!! If you like R. A. Salvatore style plots, then you should get this expansion. 
 Whoever made HotU could not have been the same person who made the other campaigns. The plot and 
 gameplay are highly inspired. You get to make some cool choices that effect the game. There is 
 a ton of action, that can be faced or skipped (I opted to go the conflict route) . Also, I recommend 
 that you pick a sorceror as I did to get the most from this module. The climax is a HUGE battle 
 of armies, and if you have a sorceror, you can blast the enemy army. It would probably be fun with 
 other classes, just make sure you pick a class that can kill a whole bunch of lower level monsters 
 quickly.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grungee
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 13, 2005 6:36 pm PT
Review:  Sure, much of the art and terrain tiles get old during the single-player game, but this expansion 
 to Neverwinter Nights adds so much coolness that it is a must-have for any fan. Epic-level characters, 
 new prestige classes, more beasts and items, (even a really nasty sentient sword) and a fight with 
 a bonafide demon!
  
  Also the story is a damn fine yarn and will keep your interest during the grind. It helps that 
 you start at a fairly high level and go from there into legendary status. Powerleveling gives you 
 cool stuff, and really, that's what it's all about.
  
  There are some clever set-pieces in the module, like your character adopting a commander's role 
 in an epic battle. Awesome!
  
  Get it if you don't have it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nawras
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 13, 2005 1:01 am PT
Review:  The second expansion to the ever popular Neverwinter Nights has been finally released, but with 
 my personal bitter memories from the first expansion pack, where does this one stand? It stands 
 pretty tall.
  
  | Story
  
  After you escape the Planes of Shadow from the previous expansion pack, the hero decided to settle 
 in the great city of Waterdeep for a much needed holiday. Unfortunately, you wake up from a strange 
 nightmare in which you see yourself confronting a great female leader set on destroying Waterdeep. 
 As soon as you realize you are awake, you notice that there is an assassin in the room. After dispatching 
 the assassin (who steals all your items and armor and weapons by the way, so if you import a saved 
 character you're pretty much left with the bare bones) , you climb the stairs down to see what is 
 going on. You recognize some of your friends from your previous adventure in Neverwinter (like 
 Linu and Tomi) and before long the whole inn is overrun by assassins. Your first mission is to 
 destroy those assassins and then find out who is behind them.
  Before long you are told that they have appeared from Underdark, an underground city deeply rooted 
 under Waterdeep, and could only have access to the top via a great mage's underground "amusement 
 park" that is designed for adventurers. You spend a good deal of time escaping the underground 
 dungeon and into Underdark, only to realize that the plot only gets bigger, grander, and more twisted 
 than you'd normally want it.
  Perhaps the most bizaare adventure yet, the story really takes you through strange lands that's 
 quite a trademark Dungeons & Dragons, but the best thing is that, unlike Neverwinter where you 
 usually battled in caves and cities, and unlike Hilltop where you more or less landscaped, Hordes 
 of the Underdark is quite diverse in its locales where even the cities themselves look odd and 
 abnormal. You even get to visit the Eighth Circle of Hell.
  
  | Gameplay
  
  Gameplay is essentially the same, with the addition of more prestige classes to accommodate the 
 prerequisite of more characters. You get the Champion of Torm, Dwarven Defender, Pale Master, Red 
 Dragon Disciple, and the Shifter. There is also an immense amount of Feats and Abilities for you 
 to choose from. But by far the greatest changes include the difficulty and the new camera mode.
 
  Speaking of the camera first, it is no longer restricted to the 45 to 90 degree tilt. Instead, 
 you can tilt the camera down all the way to the chest level, to have a sort of Tomb Raider-like 
 feel. You can also lock on the camera to Chase Mode, where the camera literally follows you like 
 a Lara Croft and you play the game like Tomb Raider. To add an even greater value, the camera can 
 be zoomed all the way in to reveal the details on the face. Now finally you can see how your character, 
 and every other character and monster, really looks like. Quite interesting also is the detailed 
 textures that you miss in a zoomed out camera. Although you may not really find it comfortable 
 being zoomed in all the time, it makes for some interesting boss battles or to look at things from 
 a different angle. Also, this zooming makes it much easier to reach objects that are directly under 
 your feet or are obscured in a corner or behind rocks.
  The other change is the difficulty setting. Remember how difficult Neverwinter could be and how 
 you were disappointed in Shadows of the Undertide? Well, embrace the moment, because the developers 
 have made the game insanely difficult, even frustrating. The game even warns you that if your character's 
 AC is less than 30, you are going to die quite often. And indeed this is the case. Enemies don't 
 attack you in threes or fours, well except early on; they attack you in a group of 7, and at some 
 points you literally have to cut your way through some 50 or so. And we're not talking goblins 
 or wolves here, we are talking Giants, Golems, Devils and all sorts of oversized Demons. In fact, 
 it is so difficult that you can now have TWO henchmen to join you in your bitter quest. As if the 
 difficulty was not enough, in Chapter 3 (because of a twist in the story) your death is permanent. 
 So you really will have a difficult time stocking up on supplies and keeping everyone alive... 
 because when your henchmen die it is up to you to revive them with a spell, or if you can't use 
 spells you will have to purchase Rods of Resurrection (and they are not cheap) or try not to get 
 them killed to begin with. There is even one boss battle that is almost impossible to win if you 
 do not have a weapon with a +8 enhancement modifier or if you are a sorcerer/wizard.
  But that the way the game throws this difficulty at you is what makes Hordes of the Underdark a 
 great game. Undermountain (the "amusement park") is filled with traps and the like; the seige of 
 Underdark is an army-on-army battle (with your command) so you are leading troops of a 100 against 
 another 100 (well maybe less, with all the killing you lose count) ; and in Hell... well, what do 
 you expect. It is obvious that the game is designed for the patient and the hardcore, for those 
 who want to take their characters beyond Level 20 and all the way to 40.
  
  | Overall
  
  A highly recommended game especially if you were disappointed by the previous expansion pack. 
 The interesting part is that the additions (except having two henchmen) applies to the original 
 campaign as well as the expansion pack... so it gives you a great opportunity to replay the original 
 Campaign with the new camera mode to see how everything really looked like. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vissuluth
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 26, 2005 9:35 am PT
Review:  Per comenar he de dir que lhe acabat, jo diria que quasi al 100%, mhaur deixat alguna coseta, 
 per poques.
  Lhe jugat desprs dun temps de pausa entre la primera expansi i aquesta, ms que res perque 
 vaig quedar molt cremat de la primera expansi, tal i com vaig escriure a la review.
  La dificultat ha estat perfecte, algunes coses massa fcils i daltres, cap al final fora dificils 
 i interessant, he trobat els puzzles ms interessants de tota la saga, ms que al joc original, 
 i tamb he trobat els monstres ms interessants de tota la saga, tamb ms que al joc original.
 
  Vaja, jo diria que en general s molt millor que el joc original, la histria mha agradat molt 
 ms, s ms variada, ja que t dues parts ben diferenciades, i sn fora oroginals, sobretot la 
 segona part, quan et penses que ja lacabes, resulta que encara queda la meitat o ms.
  El so no ha variat gaire, aix si hi ha fora veus noves.
  Els grfics fora bons, alguns monstres 
 molt guapos, i alguns escenaris molt ben dissenyats, algunes textures tamb molt bones. En general 
 ha estat fet un rentat de cara molt bo, sembla un altre joc, al principi no, per desprs millora 
 molt.
  Com que la histria s fora bona, es fa molt addictiu, i t molts ms puzzles i aix fa que no 
 sigui un mata mata tot el rato.
  En general molt ms bo que el joc original i ja no diguem que la merda de expansi que van treure.
 
  He comprat tots els moduls que han tret, comenar a fer-los en quan tingui forces. Tamb mestic 
 acabant el Icewind Dale II.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CraigH123
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 26, 2005 5:12 am PT
Review:  Epic levels and prestige classes are a very good edition to this second expansion of Neverwinter 
 nights. We had a few prestige classes in the first expansion of the game, but there aren't any 
 more stupid prestige classes added in this sequel (like the useless harper scout) . I particularly 
 like the dragon disciple. It's unfortunate though that we didn't get to see the archmage.
  
  The storyline is quite good as well, I think it's even better than the first one, although 
 the first one was very good. I have always thought drow make interesting storylines. Most drow 
 are evil, but the good drow are always cool. The end battle in my opinion is very good. The henchmen 
 are quite good this time too, better than the previous 2 stories - they cut out the weak characters 
 from the first 2 and added some good new ones.
  
  The music score on this game is even better than the previous 2, especially the boss battle music.
 
  
  29.99 is a pretty good price for this expansion I would say.
  
  Also of note is that I put the learning curve at 0-30 because I would say that if you know NWN 
 1 and it's first expansion, the new things in this one won't take long to learn.
  
  Great game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pharomarc
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 1, 2005 3:41 am PT
Review:  Hordes is a great game. Dont let the label expansion fools you. It has minor references to the 
 original neverwinter. It has fixed a lot of the problems with the original. For example having 
 two henchmen add a lot to the game play. One of the things that really frustrated me with the original 
 was that you could not equip your henchman with items you found, but now you can. Also, the game 
 visits one of the greatest places of the forgottenrealms, the underdark. Having more then one henchman, 
 and the ability to control their inventory, really reminded me of Baldurs Gate. The game has much 
 darker and mature tone to it at least compared to the original. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FireBot
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 8, 2005 12:11 am PT
Review:  Well, well, well. This game got a huge makeover in this department. There are new skills like Craft 
 Weapon, which allows you to craft certain level weapons based on what materials you have. There 
 is Craft Armor as well, that lets you make armor based on the materials you have. These go along 
 great with the Craft Trap skill. New feats in this game too, ones like Brew Potion; this one lets 
 you make a potion of some type depending on the materials that are available to you. Curse Song 
 is another one. It lets you play a song that give you special abilities, or ups some of your stats, 
 or does harm to your enemies. Again, these are just a few, there are many more of these, and many 
 Epic Feats. 
  
  Now, the new story that was added in here is great. You are in a city that is built above and evil 
 underworld. Anyone that goes there never comes back. No battles have broken out between the peaceful 
 above world, and the underworld, but all of a sudden it happens, the underworld attacks. It is 
 up to you, the hero, to defend the town and defeat the Hordes. 
  
  This is cool, because you start out at a high level, and get into big battles right at the start. 
 There is none of this leveling up stuff so you can fight the next enemy. You are already at a high 
 level, and are fighting all the big enemies! 
  
  Not much new here, still the same great graphics as there was in all the NWN games! The character 
 models remain astounding; the way they did these is just plain amazing. The armor on the character 
 moves with them, their head sways as they walk. The building models are, like all the others, amazing. 
 All the buildings have their own unique look, their own feel. Even if the same tile set was used 
 to make two buildings, they are still very different. Eventually you will know where you are just 
 by the look! The enemies are scarier then ever, not only are there new ones, but they look scarier 
 as well! Even the old ones got a bit of an upgrade. The menus still remain the same; easy to use, 
 yet stylish. 
  
  Well, the music still fits the game very well; each happening has its own song it seems! Battles 
 sound different from a trip to the market just by the music that is playing. The sounds the characters 
 make are, again, still amazing. The clang of the swords, the crack of bones, and the roar of a 
 dragon that is ready to destroy you. The people still have voices too, and talk to you, as well. 
 
  
  This is a great addition to the series, definitely worth picking up if you loved the first two, 
 or if you are looking for a new RGP get the first NWN. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SadExchange
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 1, 2004 8:12 pm PT
Review:  18 Months after the initial release of Neverwinter Nights, comes Hordes of the Underdark which 
 adds a lot of different types of content for the NWN module makers out there.
  
  Hordes adds 5 new tilesets consisting of: Exterior Underdark, Drow Interior, Mind Flayer Tunnels, 
 Beholder Tunnels, and a new outside winter ruins tileset. Bioware also included 16 more creatures, 
 over 50 new feats, over 40 new spells, new voice sets, new Music by Jeremy Soule, new toolset functionality, 
 and the ability to have your character have epic adventures now being able to reach 40th level. 
 After the release of this game on December 2nd, many people have already started making new modules 
 to further their own adventures.
  
  New to the game is the idea of cutscenes which were shot with the in-game engine which made the 
 game run more smoothly and also made you feel like you're apart of the game more. This adventure 
 starts your character off from where you left off after Shadows of Undrentide which left you off 
 at 12th level. If you didn't have a character from the previous game, it lets you level up your 
 character to level 15 if you'd prefer. Modules were also made to fit in between the two games and 
 were then judged upon by the people at nwvault. com and I believe that they've made their decision 
 on which one was th best.
  
  There's three chapters in this expansion that take you from the streets of Waterdeep to the ruins 
 of Undermounation, and then into the Underdark battling the denizens and creatures within the shadowless 
 darkness, until you finally end up back in Waterdeep to end it all. Although you're able to level 
 up to level 40, at the end of the expansion, you'll probably only be around 26th-28th level and 
 that leaves room for homemade modules to further the experience of leveling your character.
  
  The six new prestige classes that are introduced into HOTU are: Red Dragon Disciple, Dwarven 
 Defender, Pale Master, Champion of Torm, Weapon Master, and the Shifter. All of these classes can 
 reach epic abilities going to 20+ levels. The only prestige class which cannot go epic would be 
 the harper scout from the SOU expansion because of some kind of license agreement with Wizards 
 of the Coast I believe.
  
  The graphics have been improved with more polygons raising the minimum requirements from 450 mhz. 
 to 800 mhz. This may seem steep but I was able to play with my computer consisting of a 600 mhz. 
 with 384 RAM and a Gefore MX420 so if you could play the original and the first expansion, you 
 should be able to play this one. Just with some graphics turned down a little.
  
  The storyline of the new expansion has improved in storytelling since the original companion and 
 players will finally get the type of story that they've been wanting from the start. This expansion 
 should take anywhere from 15-25 hours depending on how many side quests that you undertake and 
 how much you want to go around searching through the tunnels of the Underdark.
  
  Although you don't need the first expansion (XP1) to play this expansion (XP2) , you won't be able 
 to choose the prestige classes and spells from XP1, and you also won't be able to play modules 
 made with materials from XP1.
  
  The music has slightly improved with the help of more from Jeremy Soule, who also made the music 
 for games like Icewind Dale, a favorite of this reviewers.
  
  Although it has been stated that there won't be any more expansions off NWN, the guys at Bioware 
 have said numerous times that they plan on still making new material for NWN and the community 
 it has created. Also, one can never forget the amount of material that the community will make 
 with the new tilesets and other goodies given to them. 
  
  Required install of NWN to operate 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kal_Rhael
Rating: 8.6
Date: Sep 23, 2004 8:30 pm PT
Review:  Hordes of the underdark, second expansion pack of the hit neverwinter night's takes you though 
 an epic journey, that takes place in forgotten realm's "waterdeep". The game pretty much follows 
 the previous expansion and core game, don't expect anything totally different, although it is still 
 worth the play. 
  
  You can either play with a previously created character, or a totally new one, although if you 
 create a new character expect to be a wee bit under lvled, you're automatically lvled to 15 if 
 you create a new char, through the second expansion i got my character to atleast level 19. 
  
  Anyways, once you set foot in the game, you come across familiar faces, such as daelan red 
 tiger, tomi undergallows, sharwyn and so on. you come to water deep from your previous adventures 
 whereever it may be ( undrentide most likely) and hired as a mercenary in a yawning portal inn, 
 shortly before it's attacked by the drow ( evil elves that live underground) and pursue the reason 
 why their attacking waterdeep.
  
  THe game has a few stability issues when many things are on the screen, which is to be expected 
 as the other two previous games dealt with the same problem, which is techinically an engine problem, 
 expect to crash in one point in the game. 
  
  Unlike the previous neverwinter night's expansion and game itself, you now can hire one more mercenary, 
 which makes the game alot more epic, as you tread through the underdark cutting your way through 
 ogre's and all sorts of beast's. As to be expected, the characters you fought with, you learned 
 about them, their story sucked you in, to one point, i wanted to continue playing the game just 
 to figure out the rest of my comrade's story, it's just like playing a book. 
  
  Anyways, i'll wrap this up, with, expect to see extremely in depth characters, and the return of 
 one women in particular, which add's much to the game, hordes of the underdark does what it sets 
 out to do, suck you in, that's why this game deserves the score of 8.6 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nonpareil
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 22, 2004 3:14 pm PT
Review:  Hordes of the underdark is the second expansion pack to the Neverwinter Nights series. It adds 
 new epic level classes (levels 21-40) a ton of new items, and about 40 more hours of gameplay if 
 you go straight through to beat it quickly with-out side quests, but much more if you do everything.
 
  
  The gameplay is second to none, its the best out there for the D&D genre. This is not your average 
 hack and slash, its not a hack and slash at all if you don't want it to be. With the epic levels, 
 your characters are insanely strong. Hold on a second, so are the enemys! You will have to use 
 your brain and wits to figure out some dungeons, or you could be a barbarian and just hack at it, 
 but even than there is strategy needed. This is for the serious RPGers, don't expect this to be 
 button mashing like Baldurs gate Dark alliance.
  
  The graphics are the best for this type of game. It blows baldurs gate and icewind dale out of 
 the water. If you PC can handle it, crank everything up to the highest setting and just cast a 
 spell to see the lighting and effects. Enemies look much nicer as well as the players character 
 too. Higher polygon counts on just about everything compared to the original, a solid improvement.
 
  
  The sound is alright. The ambience is appropriate, and really sets the mood of the game. Sound 
 effects are pretty good with the chants of the wizards to the howl of a dire wolf. The sound is 
 good enough that you don't notice it while your playing, it just blends in.
  
  Value is what is amazing with this game. You can play this game plenty of times as different classes 
 and races becuase it truly is a different game as different characters, and there are so many quests 
 its mind boggeling. If you do get bored of it, hop online and join a server, which are highly populated 
 with nice communitys. There is not much lag online.
  
  A must buy for anyone who enjoys D&D or is interested in it. Not only for D&D fans, but for a large 
 audience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameForLife
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 10, 2004 10:54 pm PT
Review:  It seems like first person shooters (FPS) are all over the place. I was looking in my game cabinet 
 and discovered no less than 9 recent FPS games, and only one good role playing game (RPG) , Neverwinter 
 Nights.
  
  I played the base Neverwinter Nights and enjoyed it immensely. Although towards the end of the 
 game, I tired of the interface and seemingly repetitive action. I purchased Hordes of the Underdark 
 and have been reinvigorated. I lost my original character, so I choose a predefined monk and slogged 
 right in. 
  
  It is really has been fun playing a RPG again after so many FPS games. Developing a character and 
 finding items to outfit him with is great. Where is Diablo III?!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deano
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 19, 2004 9:17 pm PT
Review:  I actually enjoyed the story of the original NWN and I probably enoyed the story of HoTU even more. 
 It has a reasonable length to it, long enough to take a good 15 hours to get through first time. 
 Also every part you venture to has some significane to the plot, where as in NWN I found some level 
 areas to be large just for the sake of trying to make the game seem longer. It's more RPing than 
 the first game as you can even decide to side with the enemy if you are an evil character for a 
 slightly different twist to the story.
  
  Although it's a xpack, it's actually not a true sequel it some respects. Even though you can take 
 your character from the original NWN and continue on, you are not actually the hero of neverwinter 
 in HoTU but just an adventurer. I did find this frustrating because I was looking forward to some 
 good dialoge with the henchmen I had used in NWN. Except now I was bascially an unknown and I had 
 to start all over again in getting to know them. To make it worse they only get a small cameo appearance 
 in chapter 1 and cannot be taken through the whole game. 2 new henchmen that have been included 
 and although they are well written I couldn't help but feel if the developers had spent another 
 few months developing dialogue for the other 4 original henchmen that it would have made this game 
 even better.
  
  Now down to some technical stuff. I like the gameplay style and people have a choice of 3 camera 
 styles. Although I still found my characters get temporarily stuck on things like rocks and corners 
 of buildings. Although some of the character models zoomed in aren't very pleasing to the eye, 
 the scenery is very nice to look at and the spell effects are probably the best of any D&D game. 
 I love the sound, great spell effects, clashing of swords, big battles really do sound great. Love 
 the music as well, amazing what a good soundtrack can do for a game. There's alot of replay value 
 if you wish to try out all the epic classes and I also noticied there's alot of minor changes to 
 the ending that can be reached by how you've acted in the game with certain individuals. I didn't 
 have 1 crash either so well done to bioware for that.
  
  Probably the thing I enjoyed most was that you finally got closure with the ending for some of 
 the main mercenaries and aribeth herself. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bollwinkel
Rating: 6.3
Date: Dec 11, 2003 3:04 am PT
Review:  I was just looking at my old BGII game and despite the low resolution, I find myself longing for 
 the good old days of smoothly animated sprites and gorgeous 2-D backgrounds. The monsters of HotU 
 are somewhat convincing, but just as in the original NWN, the graphics that BioWare churns out 
 with the Aurora engine are an uninspired and repetative mish-mash of eye-jarring color schemes 
 (for the environments) and grossly mis-proportioned anatomies (for the characters) . 
  The characters models and animations are so goofy they're almost insulting. On the positive side, 
 the magestic and stirring musical score is so good it seems like it belongs in a different game. 
 This game would be the best Bioware production ever if only I could play with my eyes closed. 
 
  
  I have a nagging suspicion that Trent Oster fired all the BGII artists and did all the concept 
 art and design himself. 
  
  We can only hope that the AuroraII engine will provide an opportunity for some much needed relief, 
 but if Bioware's commitment to the Infinity Engine is any indication, I won't be holding my breath. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Oni
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 10, 2003 12:31 pm PT
Review:  NeverWinter Nights Hordes of the Underdark is a wonderful expansion to an amazing but aging RPG. 
 It continues the journey from the 1st Expansion pack Shadows of Undrentide You need at least 
 a 15th Level Character before attempting the new adventure. 
  
  The game presents some new skill classes and also works with Shadows of Undrentide to bring those 
 skill classes up to Epic class as well. Right now my sorcerer has become a Dragon disciple, she 
 has even grown a pair of Dragon wings, totally cool. You are also able to have 2 companions now. 
 I chose Deekin, who is a trip. Hes not only very powerful but makes me laugh throughout my adventure 
 in the UnderDark.
  
  The game itself doesnt look different, but now you can move the camera all around, even see the 
 sky now. Ive been waiting for that feature since the original game was released. The Music and 
 sound effects is fantastic. The game adds new voice packs, sound tracks and effects that make this 
 adventure even more absorbing :)
  
  Im really enjoying this game, I think if you like NWN youll enjoy this great expansion too!!
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: async
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 4, 2003 2:12 pm PT
Review:  If you can say nothing else for Bioware, at least they know how to learn from their mistakes. After 
 the disappointing NWN Official Campaign, and the dearth of new content in SoU couple with the misimplemented 
 Prestige Classes, Bioware releases Hordes of the Underdark: this is a tour de force for this engine 
 and fans will breathe a sigh of relief.
  
  HotU brings an interesting story with an epic flavor. Continuing the story of Shadows of Undrentide, 
 you are in Waterdeep after they put out a call for heroes. The story opens as you get involved 
 with some of the henchpeople from the original NWN OC, and you are swept away on a tide of immersing 
 adventure.
  
  Visually, the engine remains behind cutting edge. But it is still good looking, and Bioware adeptly 
 uses it to its full effect. Sound is excellent, and features both new music and impressive new 
 tracks. Despite the aging visuals, Robes, new head models, new portraits, and full skies to go 
 with the now unlocked-by-default camera are all eye candy to be enjoyed.
  
  Where Shadows had little new content not explicitly needed for their storyline, Hordes greatly 
 expands the game by introducing Epic play. Both as a goal for characters and as an option for builders 
 trying to present "dangerous" foes to high-level non-epic PCs, this is a great advantage and offers 
 an unprecedented 3rd edition experience. Where Shadows features a number of poorly-implemented 
 Prestige Classes, Hordes adds 6 fairly impressive classes with a great deal more utility, and Bioware 
 has updated their engine to handle critical 3rd edition gameplay elements, such as Prestige Classes 
 that grant spells to a spellcasting class every other level.
  
  The scripting functions guarantee this game will see a long life in community developments whether 
 or not Epic Level play really takes off.
  
  The previous reviewer criticizes Bioware for bugs; I didn't find any going through the Official 
 Campaign, so I'd more likely ascribe his experiences to his particular hardware configuration than 
 any lack of diligence on Bioware's part. Several design choices that could be considered bugs remain, 
 such as arbitrary hard caps on enhancement bonuses, the fact that enhancement bonuses stack when 
 they should not.
  
  My main complaint is that, as usual, Bioware is taking serious liberties with D&D 3e gaming and 
 unbalancing things as they go. Examples include that the Red Dragon Disciple has wings only as 
 a visual, with no gameplay effect (in 3e rules, they fly) ; again the RDD is lacking the size increase, 
 which is possibly one of the best features of that Prestige Class. Epic Spells are acquired as 
 feats rather than through research or stone tablets as the Epic Level Handbook indicates; this 
 takes away precious epic feats. Perhaps most disappointing for Epic Spellcasters, there is no Improved 
 Spell Capacity feat, so 10th+ level spells cannot be cast, and no Spell Knowledge feat for sorcerors 
 means no learning additional 1st-9th level spells. That said, Epic Spells and the Automatic Metamagic 
 feats are impressive.
  
  On the significant plus side, the ability to have multiple henchmen returns Bioware to one of the 
 hallmarks of its other titles: interparty banter. No doubt some of the Bioware designers could 
 find second careers doing sitcom work if need be, because watching banter between Deekin and Daelan 
 is amusing, to say the least.
  
  Overall, I'd say this game falls behind Baldur's Gate II, but is easily the best single player 
 campaign experience of the 3 NWN titles, and far more entertaining than most RPGs, with a flexible 
 but driven story. If you are not a third edition purist, then you should enjoy an engaging and 
 interesting game with puzzles, fights, and more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warlordnik
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 4, 2003 2:55 am PT
Review:  Ok, this game does look good. But, the retail version is so full of bugs, its unbelievable. I have 
 confirmed that this is a common problem for a lot of players who are as equally disappointed and 
 frustrated as I am. The lighting flickers in and out, some of the menu box options are invisible 
 and the gameplay is slightly more sluggish. Whats more, if you install the retail version, it brings 
 these bugs to corrupt the original campaign and Shadows of Untrentide too. So if you're the kind 
 of guy who bought this game on the launch day, you'll probably have to wait till Bioware releases 
 a patch to address this issue before you can play ANY Neverwinter at all!!! I'm a big Neverwinter 
 fan, not to mention a HUGE Bioware fan, and uptill Shadows of Undrentide the gameplay was smooth 
 and bug free. That is why I cannot be more upset with Bioware for obviously rushing the product 
 out of QA and into the Christmas shopping crowd without polishing it.
  
  But apart from that, so much that I have played Hordes of the Underdark, it does play very well 
 and the story is most intriguing. I do suggest this game to any Forgotten Realms fan but I suggest 
 you wait till you know Bioware has fixed this problem lest you corrupt your original copy of Neverwinter 
 on your PC. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
