-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Neverwinter Nights 2: Storm of Zehir
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/neverwinternights2stormofzehir/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Turns Neverwinter Nights 2 into an old-school RPG.
 Overland map reintroduces a sense of exploration.
 Campaign is well suited for online multiplayer.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Interface doesn't work well with this style of RPG.
 Flat story loaded with mostly dull quests.
 The overland map needs some serious tweaking.
 Mostly brutal voice acting.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec  1, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6
Critic Score: 7.4, 9 Review (s)
User Score: 7.2, 472 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Atari
Developer: Obsidian
Genre: Computer Role-Playing
Date:     Nov 18, 2008 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Storm of Zehir tries to be the square peg in Neverwinter Nights 2's round hole, with predictably 
 lackluster results. 

  Obsidian Entertainment attempts to turn back the clock with Storm of Zehir, a Neverwinter Nights 
 2 expansion that tries hard to emulate the seminal single-player role-playing game Baldur's Gate. 
 But even though nostalgia makes this notion appealing, this attempt to shoehorn an old-fashioned 
 strategic RPG boasting a full party of adventurers into an engine built to showcase a story-driven 
 tale about a single lead character hasn't really succeeded. So while taking a trip back in time 
 might seem like a nice idea for an RPG vacation, the result is a clumsy affair that plays more 
 like an above-average homebrewed mod than a full-blown official add-on.  

  Storm of Zehir feels different from the very beginning. The story is extremely stripped down, especially 
 in comparison with the cataclysmic original Neverwinter Nights 2 showdown against the King of Shadows 
 and the epic first expansion, Mask of the Betrayer. Here, you play as a pedestrian low-level hero 
 not looking to save the world but to escort a trade mission on a ship heading from the overexposed 
 Sword Coast to the never-before-seen jungles of Samarach. The game takes this concept so far that 
 you can even sell goods between towns and set up trade routes to make a few bucks as actual merchants. 
 The plot wont necessarily grab you throughout its 20 hours or so of play, and the first few hours 
 seem to have plenty of RPG clichs -- youll lose all your gear early on in the game, for instance. 

           Dull quests take a lot of the shine off the bright and colorful visuals.      

  Instead 
 of tackling the usual earth-shattering events of a Dungeons &amp; Dragons game, here you take on 
 the duties of a mop-up crew coming in after the party's over. The King of Shadows has already wreaked 
 his havoc, and you're just some poor schlub out to try to make a buck by ensuring that merchants 
 can once more ply their trade. The quests reflect this mundane storyline. You run a lot of lame 
 errands to kill specific monsters and recover lost or stolen merchandise, and you clean out a bunch 
 of formulaic dungeons, caves, graveyards, and the like. Most locales are fairly small, so they 
 seem more like minor obstacles that can be raced through in a few minutes than the huge strongholds 
 and lairs typical of RPGs. Trading feels more like a minor irritant than a worthwhile feature. 
 Generally, you acquire the game's three goods -- ore, lumber, and skins -- in one place and then sell 
 them at a profit somewhere else. Transactions are handled on simple menu screens when you enter 
 a town, so you don't do anything more than hit a few buttons to add money to your coffers. And 
 the concluding reveal and battle come up so suddenly and are so anticlimactic that you won't believe 
 they're the ending of the game until you've exited to the desktop.  

  Rather than playing as a solo hero chosen for some great destiny, you roll up a party of four average 
 joes just like you did way back when in D&amp; D classics like the Baldur's Gate and Icewind Dale 
 franchises. While you start off with a single lead protagonist meant to be your alter ego, you 
 add three adventurers to the party roster almost immediately and can then add two more cohorts 
 as the campaign moves along. You can take total control of all of these characters and fight battles 
 in a style similar to the quasi-tactical struggles of old-time strategic RPGs, which makes the 
 campaign ideal for multiplayer adventuring online. Where both the original campaign and the one 
 in Mask of the Betrayer didn't seem to do much with the outstanding multiplayer options in the 
 Neverwinter Nights series, this one seems almost designed to be played with friends, even though, 
 oddly, Obsidian doesnt recommend the scenario for multiplayer games.. The atmosphere is different 
 from that in the previous Neverwinter Nights games; the emphasis on a single hero and a heavily 
 scripted story has been dumped in favor of more traditional, more wide-open role-playing. If you 
 pause the game enough or play with some friends, you can almost pretend that you're back in a turn-based 
 game circa 1989.  

  Unfortunately, it seems like the Neverwinter Nights 2 engine wasnt quite up to the task of making 
 this experience consistent. Artificial intelligence is a big problem. You can switch between having 
 full control of your party members and letting the AI handle things, but neither option works all 
 that well. If you go for total control, you're constantly pausing the action to wrangle with an 
 interface geared for looking after just one character. The pull-down menu that never worked smoothly 
 for the original Neverwinter Nights 2 is far worse when dealing with at least four characters. 
 A proper turn-based interface would require a lot less messing around and investment of your time. 
 You can turn on the AI to automate party decisions during combat, though this can lead to even 
 worse results. Leaving the game on its default settings leads to suicidal melee attacks and all-out 
 magic assaults that can empty your spellcasters' arsenals in moments, often in battles with piddly 
 opponents, such as a swarm of bats. Actions can be thoroughly customized, but it's tough to come 
 up with a formula that works in all battle situations. You can find yourself fussing with the settings 
 so much that it makes more sense to simply shut the AI off and do everything manually.  

  Additions to the main aspects of Neverwinter Nights 2's gameplay are sort of adventurous, if not 
 entirely successful. The best and worst new feature is an overland map used for traveling between 
 quest locales, like towns and dungeons. This is a simple, old-fashioned interface where you pick 
 a party leader and he or she then leads your adventurers into the wilderness. The good news is 
 that this map allows for open-ended exploration that adds a sense of venturing into the unknown 
 that hasn't been incorporated into a D&amp; D RPG for years. You can discover loads of hidden goodies 
 just by wandering around, from secret lairs to magical artifacts to bundles of clothing you can 
 use to make an impromptu health kit. The bad news is that this map is loaded with a crazy number 
 of random encounters. Unless you have a party leader like a ranger who has serious points dedicated 
 to skills like hide, move silently, and survival, you can't help but stumble into one pack of monsters 
 after another every time that you hit the overland map to head to a new quest. One moment you're 
 set upon by skeletons, then it's a gang of gnolls, then zombies, then earth elementals, then spiders, 
 and so on. Monsters can hit so hard and so often that you can never rest, which turns map travels 
 into tedious slogs that wear you down over time. Still, the overland map could be a great feature 
 with some serious tweaking. It will be interesting to see what modders do with it.  

           Overland map travels add a dash of old-fashioned RPG goodness to the adventure.      

 
  The expansions other extras include tweaks to the game engine that hardcore fans of the series 
 may appreciate, but more-casual players may gloss over. Conversations have been tweaked to enhance 
 the use of character skills that often go ignored. A menu featuring all party members now appears 
 in the dialogue window, allowing you to change speakers on the fly to open up different conversation 
 options and best use abilities such as intimidate and bluff. Parties are further emphasized with 
 teamwork benefits that can give you bonuses such as fearsome roster, which can scare off enemies 
 on the overland map, and circle of blades, which hits opponents with extra damage whenever you 
 can flank them. You also get two new races (Gray Orc and Yuan-Ti Pureblood) , a trio of new prestige 
 classes (Doomguide, Hellfire Warlock, and the Swashbuckler) , some minor changes to crafting, and 
 the usual handfuls of new items and spells.  

  The visuals do a better job of building a believable setting than the plot does. Many scenes are 
 gorgeous, and the jungle is the most realistic-looking terrain presented by the Neverwinter Nights 
 2 franchise. Just about everything is green and covered with lifelike lichen. Lighting effects 
 and spell pyrotechnics are also spectacular. The voice acting, however, is awful. With the exception 
 of the subtly slimy take on Forgotten Realms' ne'er-do-well Volo, the actors here seem to have 
 just two gears: way over the top and dull monotone. It's a long way from the stellar acting found 
 in the original Neverwinter Nights 2. On the other hand, the soundtrack is absolutely brilliant. 
 This subtle, sweeping score is right up there with the best that Hollywood has to offer, giving 
 you something to hum long after you've shut down the game.  

  Storm of Zehir isn't a terrible addition to the D&amp; D gaming canon, although it is a lot less 
 refined than you might expect. You have to suspect that this is the result of straying too far 
 from the original Neverwinter Nights 2 formula, and ultimately this expansion pack isn't as enjoyable. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (54 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Murissokah
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 13, 2009 10:37 pm PT
Review:  What is to like:
  Gives you much more freedom, whole party creation, worldmap traveling, random encounters. Felt 
 a lot like PnP Dungeons and Dragons to me (something I don't recall happening for a long time) . 
 The game progresses quickly, though leaving you plenty of opportunities to explore the new worldmap. 
 Has its own economic subsystem, that can be refreshing when the beat'em up gets boring. The changes 
 to the engine felt like they went in the right direction, privileging the setting in a broader 
 scale.
  
  What's not to like:
  The story is quite shallow and short. The problem with the open world approach is that there could 
 always be a little more "world". Feels like it offers you something, and then takes it away. The 
 game ended abruptly when I was finally enjoying my party to its best.
  Also, the engine was developed for the traditional NWN campaign, and thus is not optimized for 
 the new approach. The longer than usual loading times were forgivable before, since we usually 
 stuck to an area until we cleared it up before moving. Now the random encounters are really ruined 
 by that, as you will soon feel very bored with loading screens to fight a low level encouner.
 
  Final thoughts:
  An enjoyable experience, especially for trying out party combinations. What keeps it from being 
 a decisive success is that it takes away most of what it brings anew. The open world is nice, but 
 the world is not (not much to see in it) . The random encounters were also nice, but the engine 
 took that away. The possibilities were endless, but few were explored. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GattsTaichou
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 1, 2009 10:39 pm PT
Review:  Hey there! Not another RPG review, is it? But yes it is! I mostly play RPGs, and when it comes 
 down to essential Role-Playing Games, I just cannot resist a review.
  
  I did write a review of NwN2, so I wouldn't want to take any time with that. You know my thoughts 
 [by the way, if you do not, take some time to do so :) ] . As I mentioned there, my view of Storm 
 of Zehir is quite another story.
  
  I was waiting for this expansion for a long time. Ever since the first news I could not wait to 
 get a hold of it and finally in the end of last year, I had the chance to give it a go.
  
  When I installed it, it changed the main menu and a few other things, and the musics. As I remember 
 it did some enhancement on the graphics too and added some playable races too - which was kind 
 of cool. It could have even been great.... only if it had not been an expansion to NwN2. No I guess, 
 it's just not true.
  
  This game would never make it to the top in my list. They have implemented some distinctly new 
 features in this game that so much distinguishes this from the original, that it feels like a completely 
 new game.
  
  The high-above strategic view of the map, the strange inter-city marketing-like buy and sell add-on... 
 the shallow story... the boring quests, and the fact that it really has nothing to do with the 
 much renown predecessor makes this game an average, strategic-RPG-like mistake. The very fact that 
 it was meant to bring some new things to NwN2 and in the end it ruined the whole feeling and game-structure 
 of NWN2 and the MotB makes this game really annoying.
  
  I still hope, that the next wave in this genre that's coming this year will soon make me forget 
 this disappointment. I am still looking forward to Dragon Age... and I WAS to Dungeon Hero, which 
 should have arrived in Q1... :S 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Total_mischief
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 20, 2009 2:11 pm PT
Review:  What really had me looking forward to the game was the new overland map and the full party - giving 
 it more of a Baldur's Gate feel. Or at least I thought it would.
  
  As I've been shown in the past years, Obsidian is unable to make a game that is complete. Annoying 
 bugs, crashes, poor optimization. You get it. There was a single thing that actually made them 
 playable, and that was the storyline and interaction with the world and npcs. It was in NWN 2, 
 it was in Mask of the Betrayer, but for mysterious reasons, they removed it from Storm of Zehir. 
 
  
  That's it, almost inexistant storyline and absolutely no interactions with npc cohorts. So it leaves 
 you wandering on the Overland Map on your own, enemies spawning every two inch making it more of 
 a pain to move forward than anything else. The Map was a good concept, really, but the fact that 
 pretty much everything and anything will constantly spawn in your face and attack you unless you're 
 a rogue or ranger makes it annoying.
  
  In short, don't see any other way to put it ... the game's bad. Makes me wish Bioware still owned 
 the D&D crpg license. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: owen_2
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 14, 2009 2:30 pm PT
Review:  After playing the Mask of the Betrayer I had hopes for the AD&D rpg's again.
  I never like NWN 1 and the first NWN 2 episode was mediocre at best.
  But MofB gave me hope again. 
 It had that quality I liked so much in Torment.
  
  I bought Storm of Zehir without thinking about it and it was an utter disappointment. Not only 
 for me but actually for an friend of mine who is known for liking painstaking roleplay .
  
  The issue: Zehir is simply boring.
  
  The idea of an overland map is on it's own an excellent 
 idea, but after having faced of twenty random encounter battles you start to get bored. Oh another 
 5 giant spiders ambush. Yawn. 
  There is also some sort of trading system which is neither fish nor foul. A full flung trade system 
 might have been interesting, but the simplistic trading isn't a good representation that excites 
 or interests. 
  
  Especially lacking is a captivating story line. Apparently the story needs to develop as part of 
 the woes and worries of the trade business, but frankly it never get's quite catchy or desperate 
 enough.
  
  Zehir offers a vast choice of races to choose from, but what is the point if the story and people 
 don't give a damm. I created a entire drow party and nobody seems to care one way or another that 
 their city had just been invaded by group of beings believed to be as evil as the pure bred yi-tuan? 
 
  
  The entire AD&D system is point in fact of the boredom that pervades NWN 2.
  Being bested by a level 5 monster? Just wait until you are level 7 then you can beat the crap out 
 of him.
  Geez, I got twelve level 1 spells at the ready but not one of them is particular usefull against 
 that level twenty monster. So why are they in the game anyway?
  
  The AD&D needs a serious overhaul to attract as game system or they need to have a pretty good 
 story line. Storm of Zehir tries to introduce new things but it has made the storyline suffer as 
 a consequence. The new things fail to make the game more attractive. 
  
  My hope however is that the new things that are introduced with Zehir will be improved upon. For 
 change is the only way save the teetering AD&D branche
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dvdre
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 8, 2009 6:55 pm PT
Review:  I am going to disagree with a lot of reviewers -- Storm of Zehir offers a lot to like in an RPG 
 game. Maybe it is for us old-school RPGers. I have played every Neverwinter game, more than once, 
 and nearly all of the others, the Icewinds, the Baldurs, the Morrowinds, Sacred, Titan Quest, Planescape 
 Torment, etc. Zehir fits right in with many of the early ones.
  
  Story line? Forget it. I still have no idea what the Lord Zehir was, and I don't care. Was Sa'Sani 
 my friend or just evil? I have no idea.
  
  Zehir is important because it advances the Neverwinter game platform. The Overland Map, which is 
 a real challenge at the beginning of the game, adds some complexity and freedom to this series. 
 I played a Rogue/Shadowdancer, so eventually that character as party leader could avoid attacks 
 90% of the time. By midway through the game, the attacks on the Overland Map become only a nuisance. 
 Early on, they are tough, but they let you roll up experience. 
  
  I liked the Overland Map. I think it is an idea that can be built into greatness if this Neverwinter 
 series continues.
  
  I also liked the ability to form my own four-person team, and then have a few NPCs to add along 
 the way. I created a basic four - fighter, rogue, cleric and sorcerer and added the druid NPC early 
 on and just stayed with him. 
  
  I wondered if I would 'bond' with my anonymous self-created team. I was surprised how much I grew 
 to like them, even though they have no chatter like you get in the Baldur series. 
  
  Money and trading? In the great RPG tradition, you start off dirt poor with crappy equipment, and 
 stay that way and then eventually have 1000x the money you need. There is very little to buy from 
 the vendors in this game. I got through the game with mostly 'good' but not 'great' weapons and 
 armor. You can do your own crafting -- that is encouraged -- but please. Crafting? 
  
  The resting system definitely deserves attention. I did not like it. Let me rest after a battle!
 
  
  In Zehir, you can rest in towns and sometimes on the Overland Map, but that is risky. In the 'dungeons' 
 -- even big mutlilevel ones -- there often no places to rest. 
  
  The end battle is extremely difficult. It is a chess match and you need to play it just right. 
 If you aren't rested, with a full array of buffs and spells, you have no prayer. And yet I found 
 nowhere to rest before entering this huge battle. I had to traipse three floors to the Overland 
 Map, and then cruise away to find a place to rest. Come on now. That is boring.
  
  My end conclusion is that I really, really enjoyed playing Zehir. I looked forward to each day's 
 session and Zehir has that great game 'Zen' that clears your mind. The end battle was very satisfying. 
 It took my four times to figure out a way to beat it.
  
  And then the game is, poof, over. 
  
  I am not complaining. I loved it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ggrognard
Rating: 3
Date: Mar 8, 2009 1:19 pm PT
Review:  loved NWN and while the interface/game for NWN2 was a disappointment (i. e. no improvements and 
 some things got worse IMHO) this release was even more disappointing.
  
  But, how about the good stuff first? The graphics look great on my PC. They seem to run smoothly 
 and stability is almost an entirely non-issue. You have all of the classes/races you could dream 
 off (sorry Mr. Paladin, still no horses to ride) . 
  
  Now, the not so good: The story line is uninspired and down-right boring IMHO. No, you don't have 
 to "save the world" every time, but being a caravan guard is not much fun either. The entire "real-time" 
 map idea was (or could have been) a good idea. But, somewhere in the execution it totally fell 
 apart. Contrary to adding to the game, the real-time world map basically is the game now. The characters 
 in the game are as shallow as can be and have I mentioned uninspired/boring and the "dungeons" 
 are for the most part small, boring hack and slash affairs. No kidding many are literally a single 
 room and a vast majority are less than a half-dozen rooms that you just hack your way through.
 
  
  And there are the bugs. Yes, it would seem that just about every pathing bug that ever reared it's 
 ugly head in NWN or NWN2 is back (party members getting stuck on a fence post, just standing watching 
 you fight after you tell them attack, members that refuse to use a weapon on both hands after you 
 spend days earning them the feats to make it possible/best practice) . And, just about every aspect 
 that was added to this game (merchant sales, resources, etc) is buggy in some way or another. Heck, 
 I won't even get into the shear lameness of the wandering hordes of monsters right outside the 
 city gates that pester you and your caravans the entire game. Life as a perpetual caravan guard 
 is a boring slog fest.
  
  I do like a good role-playing game every now and then but the crappy interface and the lame story 
 kept me from enjoying anything like a real role-playing experience entirely. In NWN I would get 
 feel something when my characters died, or did poorly. In this game, nothing. I can honestly say 
 I never felt sucked into this games story line for a single instant. For a "role-playing game" 
 that is a very, very bad thing IMHO.
  
  But, truth be told I am not a hard-core role player. The NWN series and the Morrowind series are 
 the only ones I own. I am actually more of a hard core war gamer player. This is a good thing with 
 this game as IMO, it is closer to a tactical fantasy war game than a role-playing game and is the 
 only reason it gets as high a score from me as it did! So, if you think you might enjoy the tactical 
 situations in a fantasy D&D setting you might enjoy this game a bit (as I did) . Just don't expect 
 ANYTHING like the role playing experience you had when you loaded up NWN the first time.
  
  Bottom line: How the heck did they screw up such a ROLE PLAYING franchise so badly? Heck, I have 
 seen modules posted for NWN that were a ton more immersive than this game. And don't even get me 
 started on that HORRID view/interface that teases with really nice graphics until you actually 
 want to zoom in or adjust the view to enjoy... Real, hardcore role players stay away or you will 
 be truly disappointed. You have been warned. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ravenlord
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 7, 2009 7:52 pm PT
Review:  the game delivers on some of its promise, improving gameplay, visuals and mechanics, but faling 
 to solve the continuing problems that surfaced with the original iteration of NW nights. IT is 
 great to see a concept and application of overland travel, and the skills and feats that come useful 
 to characters like rangers and druids, and even thieves that specialize in tracking, moving and 
 spotting outdoor events / encounters. However, combat is still bearable at best because the camera 
 system is bent on making encounters an exercise in micromanagement and baby-sitting. Despite having 
 3 modes of play now, none of them is completly successful at controlling the camera and thus allowing 
 the player to fully concentrate on tactics.
  Overall, I give this game a high score because of the innovations, the improvements in existing 
 mechanics and the good use of license. It takes you back to the sword coast and expands on events 
 of the previous games. However, with the developer moving onto other licenses, I think it might 
 be the swan song for D&D based computer games and as a final chapter, Storm of Zehir doesnt do 
 a bad job. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stan42
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 29, 2009 1:42 pm PT
Review:  I really had high hopes for this "expansion" after MotB but was utterly disappointed.
  
  IN SHORT
  
  Good
  -tried and true D&D 3.5 combat system
  -more dialogues voiced
  -see 
 whats up around the Sword Coast during MotB
  -2 new races and 3 new classes
  
  Bad
  -non-existant story
  -too much grinding with long loading times
  -punishing death and rest 
 system
  -boring, obligatory trade system
  -not rewarding
  
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics remain the same, looking pretty but still causing slight lags on my Duo core in detailed 
 areas.
  
  Sounds:
  Actually improved. A number of dialogues are actually voiced (albeight with the same terrible voice 
 acting as the last two installations) and the musical score remains above average.
  
  Gameplay/Story:
  The game let's you create your own party, which on the one hand gives you complete 
 control over what skills and what classes you want in your group, on the other hand this eliminates 
 social interaction and character personality. Although it's still possible to recruit various individual 
 across Faerun, their personalities are severely limited. Also their AI is severly limited too, 
 in fact it's gotten worse: While I could turn off AI in the previous games and still have my companions 
 follow me, off really means OFF this time and they won't even follow you. A neat touch though is 
 the possibility to have any of your companions reply in dialogues, which gives you a reason to 
 invest conversation skill points in your companions.
  Coming to the nearly non-existent story: Basically you're just some random adventurer sent on boring 
 errands while optionally completing unrelated side quests.
  But it get' worse: Since you're working for an unimportant merchant you'll be spending a big part 
 of the game establishing trade routes and handling transactions.
  That's where the new gameplay feature comes in: You'll get around Fareun via an overland map. Travelling 
 between cities, buying resources and selling them elsewhere for a higher price. Yes, it is as boring 
 as it sounds and sadly obligatory.
  The most annoying part though is that you'll need to fight through hundreds, that's hundreds of 
 enemy encounters. When leaving city A you'll have at least a dozen encounters before reaching city 
 B. Since the fights are short and the loading times long this will get very frustrating very fast.
 
  While it's possible to completely avoid any encounters by having a ranger or similar character 
 lead your party, this isn't really an option since the main quest and even side quests don't reward 
 enough XP to level fast enough. Soon you'll be faced with overpowered enemies 10 levels above you, 
 forcing you to go back to those dozens of encounters. I believe the WoW community has a term for 
 this boring behaviour: grinding.
  And don't you dare make a mistake while doing that! The game really has a punishing death system 
 now. If a party member dies, you'll either need a ressurect spell, coin for 300 gold, scroll or 
 go to the next temple and "donate" 500 gold. Think your last surviving character with 20% health 
 can make it past all the encounters to the next temple after a short rest ? Think again. Resting 
 is only possible for gold in inns or on the overland map, the latter being prone to surprise encounters 
 halfway through.
  Add to all the above the fact that the game simply isn't rewarding in any way (no story, crappy 
 items) and you have the reasons for the low rating.
  
  FINAL VERDICT:
  Unless you like grinding, you are truly and honestly better off playing some of the free and excellent 
 modules available on the internet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: miwcomp
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 28, 2009 1:56 am PT
Review:  I went into this game wilt low expectations based on the poor reviews, and was pleasantly surprised.
 
  
  The overland map is the jewel in this game's crown. It represents a new paradigm for the BG/IWD/NWN 
 franchise. Wandering around the map hunting for monsters (or being hunted by monsters) can be fun 
 - more fun than you want at lower levels. I look forward to seeing this feature in a game with 
 a bit more of a story. That will rock.
  
  I also liked the new conversation system, the trading system, the enhanced crafting system, the 
 new exploration mode for the camera/play mode and the new death/bleeding system. None of them was 
 a distracting bummer like the spirit energy system in MoTB. Seems to me that Obsidian have introduced 
 a whole swathe of great enhancements to the game interface and game systems. If this were put together 
 with a great story as in the OC or MoTB, the game would be even better.
  
  OK. I'd better talk about the story now. This game is quite nonlinear as opposed to the OC and 
 MoTB where you had the uncomfortable feeling that you were on rails all the time. Undoubtedly it 
 is the overland map that frees you from the shackles of a rigid story thread. It also perhaps makes 
 it more of a challenge for the developers to create a compelling story. There is no doubt that 
 the story is somewhat threadbare compared to OC and MoTB. I do hope Obsidian take their improved 
 game system and the money they made from selling SoZ to create a really kick-ass expansion which 
 has more content and a compelling story. I's also like to see more interesting character dialogue 
 from the Cohorts. They were OK, but nowhere near what we have come to expect from Baldur's Gate, 
 OC and MoTB.
  
  The cover of the box talks about 30-40 hours of gameplay. I can tell you this game sucked quite 
 a lot more of my time than that. Sure, I think you could race through in 25-30 hours if you were 
 just concerned with getting to the end. But stop and smell the flowers and you will find the days 
 just dribbling away... I blame the crafting for it mostly. There's not a lot of good loot in the 
 game, so you need to make a lot of stuff to perfect your party. Some of the crafting components 
 can be hard to find, and you find yourself giving it some thought as well. You can also spend a 
 lot of time chasing monsters on the Overland Map for XP. Much of the XP you have at the end will 
 probably come from random encounters, since there's not a lot of good quests and not much XP from 
 killing storyline monsters.
  
  The game is mostly a little bit to easy for my taste, especially since the AI is very good. You 
 can almost put your party on autopilot for most of the encounters. There is, however, a small number 
 of encounters that are pretty tough.
  
  You'll start on level 4 and finish on level 16-18 typically. A bit of grinding on the overland 
 map will get you to level 20 without too much trouble.
  
  Overall, triumph in game mechanics which missed out on greatness due to content which is not up 
 to the level to which we are used. I do hope to see some great community modules and even more 
 Obsidian NWN modules which really find the potential of the game engine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hunablazer
Rating: 4
Date: Jan 12, 2009 2:06 am PT
Review:  In my opinion, (although I haven't finished the story yet) , the story was very dull, and your companions 
 barely interact with you. I loved the Neverwinter Nights 2 + MOTB, but this one lacks the story 
 and emotion the other two had. I absolutely love the travel system, travelling from town to town, 
 although it does get annoying in some circumstances when you have to keep going back and forth. 
 
  
  As for the story, well that's the main letdown for me. Neverwinter Nights 2, had the sword, the 
 keep (I loved it) , the full participation of party members and MOTB (Mask of the Betrayer) had 
 the spirit eater, full participation of party members (not as much as NWN 2) , and the continuation 
 of the NWN 2 (I thought it had a crappy ending, but turns out it didn't end, yay) . The story in 
 Storm of Zehir is just crap. A trading company? All the action is gone after the King Of Shadows? 
 I bought these games for the story, but these story lacks it all, participation of party members 
 (hell you can pick up nearly any person in this game) , which have absolutely nothing to do with 
 the story. The emotion of the people talking... well they might of well had no one talking and 
 saved the time. In NWN 2 and MOTB they zoomed right up to the body and faces, although the lips 
 were out of sync, it provided a better 'feel' to the game, and made me a lot happier. 
  
  If it was me rating this game, I would have given this a lot less rating, compared to the others, 
 this game falls far behind with the emotion, characters, and story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daniel_malheiro
Rating: 4
Date: Jan 10, 2009 8:52 pm PT
Review:  Worst AI ever, annoying random encounters, frustrating and cheap fights, death system is awful. 
 I Can't believe I'm talking about a Neverwinter Nights game.
  
  They didn't fire the guy who came up with the hunger system in MotB and now that dude probably 
 came back with another "brilliant idea": He decided to mess with the death system and let his group 
 of developers screw the rest of the game.
  
  The only neat aspect of this "mod" is to be able to create an entire party., because that's what 
 It looks like: an amateur mod, not an official new expansion.
  
  The random encounters in the world map is garbage. Groups of enemies appear from out of nowhere 
 and go after you. Ok, that's fine, but the problem is that the Encounter Level of those groups 
 of enemies is always 3 or 5 levels above the level of your characters. So, it's aways a battle 
 impossible to win without casualties, or escaping with extremely low HP. 
  
  Yes, I ran into a creature the was named "One of Many", Lol. The guy was tougher than the King 
 of Shadows himself. My poor "ordinary merchant party" were level 3 or 4. No chance of victory. 
 
  
  Another big stupid aspect of those random encounters is that they are extremely random, I mean, 
 there are zombies, Wolves, Bears, Dinossaurs, Elemental Creatures, Trolls, etc, etc, all at the 
 same area. It's just wierd and unbalanced. 
  
  Things get worse because you can't rest at any place in this game. Only in the world map full of 
 enemies that will start a fight all the time or paying gold at temples and inns. To get to those 
 places is a pain and the fact that every area in this game is a non resting area., It's just unbelievable.
 
  
  Worse than that is the death system. Your character will die and you always run out of potion or 
 spell to cure them or bring them back to life. 
  
  The main story is the worst in the Neverwinter Nights universe. All the new characters are terrible 
 as well.
  
  This game is unplayable for me. It's pure frustration and annoyance. At least until a mod or some 
 codes to fix those issues come out soon or later. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Glaice
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 9, 2009 8:25 pm PT
Review:  It seems to be a slipping trend with the NWN franchise. In MotB, they introduced new concepts that 
 seemed to work well with the game. In SoZ, you get... a new overland travel system. I'm not kidding, 
 that seems to be about the only thing that they've added to the game, the unique item list seems 
 to be in the realms of 50? or so items. Level cap is 30, dungeon maps are abysmal. Plot can be 
 run through in about a day. 
  
  Overall difficulty is fairly easy, with an emphasis on the trading system (I'd much prefer to be 
 building up a keep for an epic battle, but hey, some people like watching caravans getting attacked) . 
 Run here, talk to this guy, run there. Straightforward. Until you get to the final boss, which 
 is nearly impossible if you don't hit pause every split second and control every action of every 
 group member. Epic fail. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rshel555
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 4, 2009 8:09 pm PT
Review:  Another Neverwinter game, another change to the game play! I enjoy RPG games on PC and sometimes 
 XBox360 and this is a must have. As other people have mentioned (perhaps too much) , this game does 
 take me back in time to Baldur's Gate with playing a large, custom-created party, but with better 
 graphics. And I've enjoyed that feeling. The story line has promise and may yet become more immersive 
 as I get deeper. New to this expansion is a trading system which is interesting and I expect to 
 find other new features as I continue to complete the game. The crafting system is changed from 
 previous versions and for my taste, it's for the better. Overall, I can see that this will be a 
 fertile platform for mod building. On the other hand, I haven't enjoyed the constant attacks in 
 going from place to place -- it's gotten in the way of the storyline even after ten to twenty hours 
 of play. I don't know what my total will end up, but my hip pocket estimate is 50 to 60 hours. 
 Yes, I'll finish the game and end up satisfied that it was worth the money, but I suspect I'll 
 still look back and say it could have been better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talonfire
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 4, 2009 8:28 pm PT
Review:  Remember those old Gold Box D&D CRPGs from the early to mid nineties? The ones with barely any 
 plot? Storm of Zehir is a delightful return to the days when a CRPG storyline only served to prepare 
 you for your next battle. You want deep and thoughtful dialogue? Go away, shoo - this isn't a campaign 
 for you.
  
  Storm of Zehir starts either during, or after the first expansion Mask of the Betrayer. As the 
 Sword Coast recovers from the Shadow War featured in the NWN 2 OC, your character and his or her 
 party set out with the infamous Volo on a journey to some place or another. They end up getting 
 shipwrecked outside of Samurach in the jungles of Chult, and some very poor diplomatic talks and 
 combat scenes later you're forced into working for a Merchant company to survive in a land that 
 despises foreigners as a new God strives to make his mark on the realms. That's pretty much the 
 extent of the storyline, sound cool? I'm sure it does, but once you actually see it unfold it's 
 nothing special. I didn't go into Storm of Zehir expecting another Mask of the Betrayer, so I was 
 fine with it. I do think it could have been a little better, though; in some places the plot felt 
 rushed, and it was also very short.
  
  Storm of Zehir focuses mainly on the gameplay, and it does indeed excel in this area. The three 
 new big features are the Overland map, the merchant system, and the customizable party system. 
 The Overland map essentially works like the classic Fallout maps, or those classic JRPG world maps 
 in which you have one character representing your party traveling a semi-detailed landscape to 
 get to their next destination, or simply explore. What makes this Overland map special is that 
 whoever is leading the party determines what encounters you'll be able to discover, or avoid. For 
 example, a ranger with good spot and listening skills will be able to find hidden treasures, and 
 notice hostiles before they notice you. Also a good hide skill will allow your party to avoid hostile 
 encounters. There's also a variety of small dungeons strewn about the overland map giving exploration 
 enthusiasts plenty to see and do. I loved the overland map myself, it made the transition between 
 destinations more smooth than the instant transition in previous Neverwinter Nights titles. Unfortunately 
 the developers decided to add grinding as a necessity to SoZ as well, so you end up battling enemies 
 on the overland map quite frequently in order to gain experience which I found tedious.
  
  The merchant system is somewhat gimmicky, but it's an entertaining distraction. During the Storm 
 of Zehir campaign you gain authority in a merchant company allowing you to establish trade routes, 
 and perform other delightful merchant tasks. It's actually a pretty simplistic system, and if you're 
 looking for a deep business simulator you'll be disappointed. For the most part all you do is establish, 
 and upgrade trade routes by trading gold and certain supplies to establish trading posts in the 
 cities and towns along the Sword Coast. You gain profit from these routes in the form of trading 
 bars which can either be exchanged for gold, or used to upgrade your headquarters at Crossroad 
 Keep. As I said before, it's an entertaining little distraction, but not at all deep and very similar 
 to the rebuilding of Crossroad Keep in the NWN 2 OC.
  
  Finally the party system is different in SoZ as opposed to NWN 2 and MotB. As most should know 
 by now, you create your own party so one should not go into SoZ expecting in depth party interactions. 
 You can pick up to three character's from your NWN 2 local vault and import them into your game 
 at the beginning. Depending on their stats and skills these party members may be able to interject 
 in dialogue with NPCs using the new conversation system which lets you seamlessly switch between 
 which character is speaking to the given NPC. Another nice aspect of the customizable party system 
 is that you're not stuck with the same party throughout the entire game, if you want you can switch 
 out one or more of your members for an entirely different character in your local vault by using 
 guest books at Inns, or the employee registration at your headquarters. The new character's level 
 will automatically be scaled to match yours meaning that you won't have to grind to get him or 
 her up to speed.
  
  Visually NWN 2 isn't any different than the original game, so let's skip ahead to audio. The voice 
 acting isn't that great unfortunately, but I wasn't expecting exceptional voice work in the first 
 place. The music on the other hand is quite good, Storm of Zehir features a very epic and heroic 
 sounding musical score that really fits the mood of the game.
  
  Storm of Zehir is worth playing if you want some great gameplay, and don't mind the absence of 
 an even remotely decent storyline. It's got some great new features to play around with in its 
 campaign, and I for one hope that a talented modder out there adapts the overland map for the NWN 
 2 OC and Mask of the Betrayer.
  
  Overview:
  +Overland Map is great for explorers, and more natural transitions between locations
  +Merchant 
 system offers some fresh gameplay to go along with traditional monster slaying
  +Ability to completely customize your party, and switch in the middle of a game with no problems
 
  +Musical Score
  +Volo
  
  -Weak Storyline
  -Short if you don't take the time to explore the Overland map
  -Merchant system is simplistic
 
  -MMORPG style grinding 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ilgoga
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 1, 2009 1:08 am PT
Review:  There is a lot of things in here that was probably good ideas but didn't quite translate into the 
 game. Like the Overhead Map which should be good but is mostly annoying with the constant meeting 
 of small groups of enemies that forces you to load a fight which you get nothing for winning. Annoying. 
 The AI of your party also sucks, they are hard to control and you miss the good old Baldur's Gate-days 
 (and I can't remember the original NWN2 was this stupid, but I guess it was, and I didn't play 
 the other expansion) . And when I select another character who stands too near an exit and my party 
 leaves an area I just entered and forces me to watch four more loading sequences I start to scream 
 at my monitor.
  But somehow I continue playing. I want to reach another level, learn a new spell and to find a 
 better longsword (+1 at level 11?! come on!) for my paladin. I really don't care for the story 
 but the trading is a kind of cool strategy addition to the game.
  Overall, if you really like RPG and/or thr Forgotten Realms you can forgiving of it's flaws and 
 play the game, but if you're looking for a great RPG a suggest Fallout 3 or Mass Effect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dr_Zaus
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 30, 2008 6:13 am PT
Review:  I can see why Gamspot didn't really like this game. It seems like an omage to those gamers that 
 still enjoy a D&D pen and paper game now and again. Yes the overland map can be tedious if you 
 don't spend the time adding the proper skills. However, most of those skills were useless in the 
 other D&D computer games put out. Honestly in Neverwinter Nights 1-2 I don't think I put a single 
 skill point in spot or listen, and rarely used hide and move silently. Why should I. I wasn't looking 
 to hide from the monsters, the goal of the mission was to wipe them out anyway. Plus if I needed 
 to I could rest anywhere. No this game was an attempt at old school pen and paper gaming where 
 every skill is usefull in some way. I do admit that the story line could beefed up. If you are 
 looking for a hack and slash you will spend time running back and forth from town to town trading. 
 So if you like D&D games because you like to ROLEPLAY and like the pen and paper then you will 
 enjoy this game. If you got this game simply to be showed where to go, click on a map, wait for 
 the load time, and then hack and slash through a dungeon then you missed the point of this game. 
 
  
  This game is missing a little on the imagination side in story line, but it is an interesting way 
 to go in terms of computer gaming and has potential. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jwinches
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 30, 2008 6:06 am PT
Review:  I'm somewhat puzzled at all the mediocre and flat-out bad reviews this game has recieved. Perhaps 
 the game when first shipped had some bugs? I recieve as a gift for christmas and several patches 
 were available when i played for the first time. I'm finding the game to be very enjoyable and 
 reminds me alot of the Icewind Dale series. Minimal flash (aka cutscenes and elaborate story) but 
 alot of substance and gameplay additions. If you enjoy old school hack & slash and character/party 
 development give this one a shot. Overland travel map is cool enhancement as is the party feat 
 system.. lots of companions to be recruited and all are well done. 3 new classes and 2 new races 
 plus a huge crafting system overaul. I'm a big nwn2 fan and i think this is a fine addition to 
 that world, lots of new features in one expansion. Hope bioware cranks out another soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nailex
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 28, 2008 6:20 am PT
Review:  I'm really surprised by the Gamespot score for this game. It is perhaps the best expansion on a 
 NWN game so far. 
  
  1. Graphics - 8/10
  2. Sound - 8/10
  3. Bugs, Glitches & Exploits - 8/10
  4. Story - 8/10
  5. Gameplay - 10/10
  6. Improvements 
 - 10/10
  6. Multiplayer - Haven't played it.
  
  
  1. The graphics engine hasn't been changed. It still looks like the original NWN 2. Which means 
 - quite good. You may not expect flashy explosions or something like that though.
  2. Good soundtrack. As in most NWN games, many of the NPC's aren't voiced. I think they should 
 really work on this issue in the next game. 
  3. I've encountered a few glitches mainly with the guess book which allows you swap party members. 
 At some times the camera glitches and you can't move it.
  4. The main story isn't something so original nor epic. The important thing in this paragraph is 
 the freedom you have. You may chose which quests to do and which not to. You chose when and in 
 what order to do what. You decide if you are strong enough to face a certain enemy or not. Most 
 of the side quests are interesting, some are not but the game looks like you are playing a real 
 table top D&D game. With all the advantages and disadvantages. 
  5. Not much difference with the original NWN 2 again. But after all it is an expansion not a new 
 game. Most of the times you will be spending on the overland map choosing whether to save someone 
 or not, whether to run or hide from an encounter. The most significant change is that now you don't 
 play with one character but with 4. You are the one that customizes your party giving you the freedom 
 to make a team which best suits your style. The only problem is that you must have a ranger in 
 the party as it is the only character which combines all the skills you need at the overland map. 
 Otherwise you will have trouble traveling or seeing treasures on the map. The game implements a 
 new trade system around which the main story takes place. The result is that at the end of the 
 game you so much money that you don't know what to do with them. (A friend of mine said he finished 
 with 54 millions) . Also until the final battle you will have no troubles beating all the encounters 
 on the map. When you face the final one you will probably get wiped out at least a few times. The 
 sudden jump in difficulty is quite annoying. 
  
  6. This is the best expansion which have come out this year according to my oppoinion. It includes 
 many new features which makes one great game even greater.
  1) The overland map - The ability to travel all around the world, to do quests in what way you 
 want it. Also now almost all of the skills have uses unlike the previous games when hide and move 
 silently usually only slowed the party moving speed and the killing of the enemy.
  2) Improved crafting system - Finally. You just pick the recipe and if you have the proper skills 
 and items in your inventory the item is done. No more searching around the inventory for the right 
 stone or essence. Or wondering which character you have to selected to do that.
  3) As i mention now all of the skills are put in use. The game gives you an detailed description 
 on which skill what use there is on the overland map. 
  4) Party conversations - now you are not talking with only one of the party members with some scripted 
 dialogs and a few words at some time from your party members. You may decide which party member 
 when to talk and to say what. If you have a character with bluff you just chose he and he starts 
 lying. If you have one with intimidate you chose him and he starts intimidating.
  The only thing that disappointed me again is the thing I've called "Bioware Sindrom" - Again you 
 have 3 lines - the good, the neutral and the bad. And no matter what you say the NPC will just 
 react a little different then continue as nothing had happened. Most of the dialogs can be done 
 by quickly pressing 1. I"ve hated that in all NWN, in Mass Effect in Jade Empire but even after 
 10 games they still follow the same formula for dialogs.
  
  
  
  I would say it again. For an expansion this game looks great. It improves one already great game 
 giving it many new features and if they have made a little better story and a few less technical 
 difficulties it would have been a real masterpiece. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mrbongos
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 26, 2008 1:03 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the few times I'll ever say I feel that the reviewer from Gamespot has his head 
 placed into an uncomfortable position. And I would venture that Brett Todd has never played tabletop 
 D&D ever before.
  
  I myself am an old veteran, having started on original D&D, when you could tell the guide books 
 because they were color coded (We're talking Blue for DM, Green for PHB, Teal for Deities and Demigods, 
 and other shades) Where your race was your class, IE... "I'm a dwarf!" "So what do you do?" "What 
 do you mean? I'm a dwarf... I either hit stuff, or do holy magic and hit stuff." 
  
  I've slogged through AD&D (aka Second Ed) When Hobbit was changed to Halfling and gnomes were made 
 playable. And I've been wading my way through 3.0 and 3.5, though I am leery about how much hand 
 holding 4.0 provides. And with over a decade of gaming under my belt, I think I can say I know 
 what Tabletop is.
  
  I'm also a NWN veteran, from the core original campaign, Shadows of Undrentide, Hordes of The Underdark, 
 and through NWN 2 up until Storm of Zehir. A game which makes me feel like a player again, moreso 
 than the others. Why? Precisely for some of the reasons that Mr. Todd has presented the game to 
 be poor. 
  
  Many table top players actually played 'no name schlubs' trying to eke out an existence however 
 they could. Trading, if the DM allowed, exploring, finding creatures to stab and then taking their 
 stuff, or just plain luck. If a story to save the world came up, and the characters/players felt 
 up to the challenge, they'd answer the call for heroes. If not, they'd hope for the best and try 
 to help the NPCs.
  
  Why does every RPG game have to rely on the tried, and wearying, Save The World! line of plot? 
 How many times does one have to save Toril when playing the Neverwinter Nights Games before it 
 gets... well boring. Playing a nobody allows you a greater range of freedom, like the option of 
 being a marauding bandit, a noble protector, or just an adventurer looking for the next door to 
 kick in. In the previous Neverwinter Nights games, the game steered, despite all of it's talk of 
 free form play, the players towards a good path. Yes you could do evil acts, even affect things 
 based on a sadistic streak along side the more noble goals. But the endings were generally the 
 same. NWN 1, you play a goodie, neutral, or a baddie and you still kill the lizard lady to stop 
 her goal. 
  
  Shadows of Undrentide, which I've yet to play an evil character in, you always stop the flying 
 city from being used. Why not allow an evil character to keep it and abuse the new power for an 
 ending?
  
  Hoardes of the Underdark: One of the only to allow multiple types of endings. For instance if you 
 had the raw coin you could get Mephistopheles's true name and utilize it to take over his level 
 of the hells. You could destroy him, banish him, or serve him.
  
  NWN2: You finally get a chance to be downright dastardly, by allying with the King of Shadows and 
 betraying your companions. 
  Mask of The Betrayer: You can go psycho crazy and kill -everyone- or you can do, like I did, and 
 fight the curse you're stricken with, becoming a pinnacle of will and capability. 
  
  But, finally, Storm of Zehir. Full freedoms, yes you have quests that are directly tied to the 
 plot, but you can take your sweet time wandering the world, discovering things, slaying monsters, 
 finding side quests, discovering dungeons laden with nasties and treasure. Eventually you will 
 have to go to the main story plot, as would be demanded in any game, but how you get around to 
 it stands to be seen.
  
  Mr. Todd's description of the overland map seems overly harsh, as I, and others I know, have had 
 no trouble finding places to rest, encounters can be easily avoided if you just take the time to 
 run -around- them. Something many people seem unable to do in a quest for immediate gratification. 
 It is also noted that he doesn't seem to understand the wonder of travel in tabletop D&D as it 
 is presented so well in Storm of Zehir. Half the fun was the war story you had just getting to 
 the cave filled with loot and monsters. 
  
  Sometimes you're dogged for days, in game or in table top, sometimes travels are boring. It's all 
 part of the experience and denouncing a game because of that is a rather blind sighted action.
 
  
  Rolling up your own party is fantastic, think of characters you've played in other Neverwinter 
 Nights games, characters you enjoyed, characters you played in tabletop. Now imagine them working 
 together. I know I have my own dream team running. 
  
  And finally, for what I can think of... Leadership feat. FINALLY. Yes you can't get followers. 
 But god damn do I love having the ability to control my own party size. While to my knowledge I've 
 maxed at 6, who knows maybe if I throw leadership onto another of the core party I can get it to 
 7, I'll just need to blow a feat.
  
  The Guest Book system is a godsend in this regard. No longer having to travel hundreds of miles 
 back to one town to gather up your party members to switch out. Now it's as if they travel with 
 you, allowing you to waste no time in your party decisions. And from what I've seen you have no 
 worries of forced party members like Shandra Jerro and others. 
  
  Overall, I give this game a helluva better rank that GS, but that's because I'm old hat at D&D 
 in general. Try the game, even if you only track down a demo, give it a shot. It's more than just 
 being Bob Shlub The Merchant. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: limraz
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 25, 2008 2:05 am PT
Review:  Storm of Zehir change the way Neverwinter games have been played before. The overland map give 
 you the sense of freedom encountered in Elder Scrolls series, even that random encounters could 
 and are ,sometimes, harder to manage. The exploration is fun, because you are not linked anymore 
 to a prescripted story. Still, after a while, is boring to fight the same enemies in the same environments. 
 The economical aspect and the design of caves, plants, animals, etc. are a big improvement over 
 the normal gameplay, hampered by the speed you run over the map. In my opinion you get acces much 
 to easy to recipes and ingredients and some quests give way to general indications on how to accomplish 
 their goals. The story is nothing to great, but I agree that Storm of Zehir is a beta test to the 
 future Neverwinter games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smerlus
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 24, 2008 2:35 pm PT
Review:  My first impressions of the latest expansion to Neverwinter Nights 2 were mostly positive. Even 
 the lack of cinematic storytelling and the way the story took a back seat to good old fashioned 
 adventuring was a surprising break from RPG's or expansions that try to out do each other in epicness. 
 However, after all was said and done I found the lack of a strong story to be a huge negative on 
 an expansion that updates quite a few old gameplay elements.
  
  I find it hard to categorize Storm of Zehir; I can't say it's a dungeon crawler because the dungeons 
 are far too small in size to impress. The story is also far from epic or even complete feeling. 
 I guess this confuses me because the game seems more like a well crafted user mod than anything 
 a professional developer should put out, story wise at least.
  
  The story starts off aboard and ill fated ship where I was prompted to create not only my lead 
 character but also three other companions that would fill out my adventuring party. I read the 
 manual beforehand and it said to make the party as diverse as possible so that is what I did. When 
 all the dice were cast I walked away with a male half elf ranger that would make navigating the 
 world map easy, a female Halfling rogue that would help with traps, locks and was also surprisingly 
 adept in lore, a half orc male fighter who was the brute of the bunch and a male water-something 
 or other that was a paladin. So 4 different races, 4 different jobs, the 2 different sexes, that 
 should have been at least a decent party.
  
  It was. It turned out to be a quite enjoyable party. My ranger lead made sure that no random encounters 
 that popped on the world map were unwanted, the rogue handled all the lore responses, the paladin 
 was my diplomat and the fighter was the intimidator. While the group ended up not being the most 
 colorful group I've experienced in a role playing game, they each had separate personalities and 
 uses throughout the quest. I think this example best sums up my feelings on the party dialogue 
 mechanic. The characters don't turn out to be the most interesting but they are all enjoyable and 
 fully functional.
  
  The time aboard the ship doesn't last that long as you're tossed upon a shore with a jungle setting. 
 Seeing this jungle area was almost a culture shock over the environments is the previous NWN games 
 and expansions. The wilderness is full of lush green vegetation and the creatures found within 
 this setting take on a more wild or tribal look. A quick encounter occurs which got me used to 
 the elementary parts of crafting equipment and reacquainted with combat. I thought that the overhaul 
 of item crafting that has happened with this expansion would make crafting easier but it really 
 doesn't so once again I skipped over it entirely. Too many things are still needed such as recipes, 
 parts, money and the right skill with the right amount of points in it.
  
  After this encounter, my characters were quickly apprehended by guards, brought to the local city 
 and then given the meat of the story information. It seems after the events of Mask of the Betrayer, 
 the Realm's economic life came to a crashing halt and it's up to trade groups to get the money 
 and items pumping again. Where the party fits in is they will be the people to get this ball rolling 
 and also find a insidious plot going against all of it.
  
  Then about 4 main quests later it's all over. Seriously the main quest in this game is very short 
 and unfulfilling in the way a Tic Tac would be a poor meal for a starving person. I was literally 
 shocked when the credits rolled as it felt a lot like the feeling I got with the Kingmaker expansion 
 for the original Neverwinter Nights. I have to say one thing about the ending though, it's really 
 put together quite nicely and is a fitting closing for such a short adventure.
  
  So my complaints are main story, crafting is still a chore, oh and the voice acting is very hit 
 or miss. I haven't seen this much variation in voice acting quality in a game ever. Some voices 
 are perfect while others seem like janitors told to read a piece of paper into a microphone. 
 
  
  The flip side to that is the music is actually quite catchy and for a game's music to actually 
 peak my interest is quite impressive to me. I'm thinking that if I wasn't too lazy, I would try 
 to hunt down the music files and convert them into MP3 if that's not how they are already done 
 and toss them into a folder with my Morrowind, Bioshock and Fallout soundtrack.
  
  Storm of Zehir doesn't do much to spice up anything else in the Neverwinter Nights world. There's 
 a few additional classes, a few new races and certain skills are given a bigger emphasis which 
 is primarily used during the aforementioned world map parts. Other reviews have noted that the 
 random encounters found in this portion are horrible but my argument is that a little reading of 
 the manual helps a lot. Letting a ranger, druid or rogue lead the part during these portions will 
 more than likely solve the issues of numerous random encounters as the spot and hide skills really 
 come in handy not only for encounters but also to find the small dungeons or items hidden on the 
 map.
  
  So the majority of the game falls back on trading and the various side quests one will encounter 
 along the way. While this doesn't sound impressive in a role playing game, it's actually a lot 
 of fun if this interests you. I personally spent the majority of the time playing the game setting 
 up caravan routes, amassing gold and then putting that gold back into the business by improving 
 those caravans. Along the way you'll come across enough encounters to stretch out the time spent 
 on this expansion far more than just doing the main quest.
  
  So this expansion, while well crafted has left me with mixed feelings. For a person looking to 
 play an RPG that is just about how much treasure you can collect along with some pretty good side 
 quests, this is the best D&D adventure out there. Just don't go expecting a great story, plot or 
 characters because those are all absent here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alpha-Gibbon
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 20, 2008 3:15 am PT
Review:  I don't like to review of a game until I've played it all the way through. Sure, no one will read 
 it by that time, but I get the satisfaction of a job well-done.
  
  In the case of Storm of Zehir, I feel I must issue a warning. Do not buy this game expecting anything 
 resembling an expansion to NWN2. I loved MotB, which was a great continuation of the original campaign. 
 It was more NWN2, and that's just what I wanted. Great story. 'Nuff said.
  
  Storm of Zehir, on the other hand, is an experience best described as "Gold Box with good graphics." 
 For the non-hardcore gamers, I'm referring to the classic series of D&D games for the PC from back 
 in the 1980's. If you love games from the 1980's - go no further. If you still play campaigns for 
 NWN1, this is your cup of tea. The rest of you will be shocked and horrified that this was actually 
 packaged and sold as an expansion for NWN2.
  
  Now, as if the boring quests and nearly non-existent storyline aren't enough for you, let's discuss 
 the aesthetics. The characters' lips don't move when they speak. It's a throwback to NWN1 or just 
 lame, depending on how much of a fanboy you are. The dialog is pretty flat and the small parts 
 of it that are actually voiced are voiced badly. Again, this is just like NWN1 but with prettier 
 graphics.
  
  The mind-boggling thing is that this expansion spanks your system. NWN2 and MotB ran smooth as 
 glass with full resolution and effects. SoZ runs like a slideshow when you're in the main town. 
 Why? Just to make me more upset that I purchased this expansion. Okay, maybe not, but it was definitely 
 a cash-grab.
  
  There is an arbitrary and uninteresting trade system in the game. Okay... Yep, that's pretty boring. 
 This is old-school in the sense that it resembles a game you might have played for free on Prodigy 
 or downloaded from a BBS. Yes, it really is that bad.
  
  But wait! There's more! The controls are all new! Yippee!!! Now, you basically have to hack your 
 INI file to get control. If you were using the character mode to run around the world - forget 
 it; that's broken now. You do get a new Explorer mode to go along with strategic mode; if you want 
 to pan around like an RTS (in a limited range) then this is for you. It is not so much for me.
 
  
  Well, the sad ending to this story is that since I'm such a fanboy, I still gave it a 6.5. It really 
 deserves a 4.0 or below, but I just couldn't pull the trigger on a score that low for my beloved 
 series. Plus, I'm hedging my bet in case I discover something really neato further on in the game. 
 All indications are that this is pure fantasy, which is more than I can say for the game. (rimshot!)
 
  
  Well, there you have it. You've been warned. My advice: grab one of the many fine user-created 
 mods for NWN2 or just load up NWN1 and get the same experience with slightly diminished graphics 
 but vastly improved performance and controls. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fandangle
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 19, 2008 4:04 pm PT
Review:  What happen? The game is a shell of what I have come to expect from a Neverwinter Nights game.
 
  
  The AI is nearly non-existent and what is left is a hindrance. In a game with one of the main selling 
 points is party creation, AI is extremely important - yet SoZ seems to have not been blessed but 
 rather cursed with AI that must have been overlooked in testing.
  
  The camera was never a strong point with NW2+MoTB however with SoZ it seems they have gone backwards 
 - never a good thing. That being said the camera is bearable but lumped with the other things that 
 brings SoZ down the camera just becomes another thing that makes me ask Why?
  
  Not a big issue, but after starting MoTB at a higher level, SoZ gave the impression to me I was 
 just relearning old skills and spells - nothing really new, nothing to get that excited about when 
 I levelled a character.
  
  The lack of story and character background was not an issue for me before playing the game. Yet 
 with no story and little purpose SoZ didn't give me any reason to feel any attachment to my party. 
 I still have fond memories of a monk I had in my party in Icewind Dale 2.
  
  The map was a welcome change - the random encounters didn't make much sense though. Shouldn't the 
 undead turn up near graveyards rather than just hanging out on the main road? 
  
  Now I'm just nitpicking, but thats the game - makes you look for negative things instead of overlooking 
 them with solid play in other areas.
  
  Hoping fully a patch will fix a lot of the issues but only time will tell. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kronblom71
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 16, 2008 1:04 pm PT
Review:  Wow this game sure has got a beating. It may have deserved some of the reviewers spit, but some 
 seem to not have given the game much chance with all the 1 rates. Only shows that RPG fans probably 
 are the biggest whiners.
  
  Remember this is just an expansion and they tried to do something different, for a change, and 
 at the same time give a little flavour of the kind of role-playing some of us played back in the 
 late 90s.
  
  Starting of with an entirely custom-made party was the thing with this game that caught my attention, 
 and almost solely responsible for me wanting it. Because of that the story may have lost a little 
 on originality (but how many RPGs have an story that really makes your jaws drop then?) . But on 
 the other hand it is you that have to create your own story and atmosphere here. Dont want to 
 use youre own imagination and just follow a scripted game, fine then - this game aint for you. 
 
  No, there is no interaction between your characters, but that was not the purpose either - and 
 hard to make when you create them yourself obviously...
  
  There are still some things here Im pretty annoyed with!
  It seems you cannot advance in lvl 
 with characters in a few prestige classes, like favoured soul. You get the infamous message "Character 
 level disallowed by server restrictions" when you try to lvl up a char in that class. I have learned 
 that is just because one dont own the other expansion. Now I did not know that before I bought 
 the game and noone info was to read in the manual about this. That just plain sucks, Atari - you 
 should have given us the benefit to lvl up in any of the classes. Through a patch at least...
 
  
  An other let-down is that you cant visit all towns. All you can to is trade with them and visit 
 the tavern and the temple and they all look the bloody boring same. Sure I really like the idea 
 with the world map, but when some of the places you get to visit on it - like some towns and "dungeons" 
 - are so idiot generic, you tend to loose interest at times.
  
  But in the end I really enjoyed this take on NWN. It does not entirely deliver and had it been 
 a stand-alone game the rate would have been lower obviously.
  
  Play if you dare;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alkyone
Rating: 4.5
Date: Dec 16, 2008 5:10 am PT
Review:  From the first few minutes i knew it... the game is nothing like what i expected...
  if i wanted an old school game i would have played one!
  
  the game is probably not as bad 
 as it seems to me because i expected much more... i expected something similar or even better than 
 the previous games but No!
  this game doesn't have a good story ... there is no character depth and interaction.. and no romance 
 .. i mean to choose the party from the first minute! what is that...?!
  
  as said in the review this game seems to be built for multiplayer mode... again if i wanted only 
 a multiplayer game i would have played another game not nwn...
  
  and i ask why change something that is good?! the market is filled with so called rpg with no depth 
 and stupid quests why ruin one of the few games that had a real taste of "roleplaying"?!
  
  for me a rpg is a story first and a game second.. so if u like "real" rpg like sw: kotor , nwn2 and 
 nwnMob u probably won't like this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DGDN_Cat
Rating: 2
Date: Dec 15, 2008 10:15 am PT
Review:  Nasher is their with his people enjoying the festivities as well breathing a sigh of relief.
  
  The next morning the Knight Captain strolls out on top of the keep with his companion from 
 the night before at his side and they watch the sun rise, suddenly a darkness starts to come over 
 the distance the two look at each other and back out at the distance, END GAME...
  
  My husband & I both agree to all that I have stated and are very upset at the ending of this game...............
 
  1.) Tie up the loose ends with Daeghun, at least since half of the story made a big deal about 
 how no one would ever tell' what happened with your mother except him.
  2.) I'm only sad about Casavir/Elanee and our Character's...... The night before they were in love.. 
 and the day after all dead...... I cried when Casavir expressed his love and I have played way to 
 many games to cry.....
  3.) I only hope that in the expansion we'll see again our characters, but I really want to see 
 the beginning of the romance story.. (good end if u chose to be "boyfriend/girlfriend" the night 
 in the keep)
  4.) I too would of definately had the party return to Crossroad Keep or Neverwinter. A knighting 
 ceremony, a talk with Daeghun, a hero's welcome, all would of been pretty sweet. Quite honestly 
 even if most of the party members (including the hero) made it back to NW safely they could of 
 easily left it open for an expansion. Just because you come home for a reward ceremony doesn't 
 mean your questing days are over. For instance you could of been sleeping and suddenly find yourself 
 in another fight, but this time with KOS's Brother. All of your party members are with you. You 
 also bring beginning's for your father & yourself, find your one true love, etc........... the list 
 is endless.
  5.) Not many of us were wearing that cape lol, but it's all they find of you, pure bs IMO.
  
 
  But with TWO Ex=Packs none of this has happened!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alkaloidzz
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 13, 2008 8:44 pm PT
Review:  *Warning contains spoilers*
  
  What was good/great?
  
  The story was a little derivative but this is what constitutes the guilty pleasure aspects of this 
 part of the NWN2 series. Brought back good memories of PAP DND games.
  
  You are a hero/cad trying to make their way in a world gone mad as a consequence of the king of 
 shadows invasion. But rather than being "Mr/Mrs save the world" , (though the adventures are pretty 
 big) , I actually liked the fact I was only a small player in the scheme of things. 
  
  Further, I really enjoyed how this chapter tied into the previous NW2 and MOTB and that you regularly 
 bumped into favourite characters and towns all over the place, though some of them will certainly 
 bring up 'canon' issues and had me wondering how the hell they ended up where they did. 
  
  I really enjoyed that a whole heap of skills are actually being used such as survival, spot, search 
 and hide.
  
  The crafting process was also easy and intuitive compared to what has happened in the past. 
 
  
  I also liked the adventurers guild which allowed cool things such as paying gold to bring a cohorts 
 level inline with the rest of the party so everyone leveled at the same time.
  
  I also thought the games level was great, after level 25+ I don't tend to find that the fear of 
 loosing a beloved character really exists anymore. 
  
  What was Irritating for me?
  
  Well two things really, and not really that big a deal.
  
  Firstly, from about half way through 
 the game to the end a random encounter, when I couldn't outrun one, took 30 sec, in fact load times 
 and getting to the world map took longer than the battle. So as a design option perhaps a button 
 which can be clicked which allows the battle, and its consequences, to occur off screen. i. e. You 
 won, but your paladin is toast, would have been a lot better.
  
  Secondly, the trade aspect was great, but I was fed up with repairing caravans, (when I actually 
 found them) , and there wasn't an ability to add more guards etc for some of the more nasty, but 
 lucrative routes.
  
  Over all, if you loved NWN2/MOTB, you should enjoy this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ork1971
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 10, 2008 9:40 am PT
Review:  This game is not perfect. That does not matter because it made me happy at the low price. Many 
 people look at neverwinter nights products as stand alone products. They are not. The features 
 that this expansion adds will make many online worlds better. The overland map is great! The new 
 races and classes are just what people who play Persistent worlds like. Come on people that's the 
 whole point of D&D if you do not like the story make up your own! Do not just complain about the 
 story you do not like. Heck you can even modify the official campaign. One other thing I have noticed 
 about neverwinter nights is that its not about how well the game playes at version 1.0 its about 
 how it plays after the patches. Neverwinter nights is about persistant worlds. NWN is about a group 
 of friends getting together and playing together and having fun. Its a vehicle that allows this. 
 The single player game is an after thought. Do you think NWN 1 made it as a franchise to become 
 NWN 2 based on just just the single player experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bellendaine
Rating: 3.5
Date: Dec 9, 2008 4:28 pm PT
Review:  I totally concur with the Gamespot review. It's a disappointment, to say the least. I hate the 
 resting restrictions, and the frequent attacks going across the overland map make me want to just 
 stay in the town rather than get into the story. I appreciated the ability to make more NPCs for 
 my party (as I didn't like getting stuck with all the forced NPCs in the OC of NWN2) , but that 
 was about the only thing they did right here.
  
  I wish they had made a good, story-based expansion to the NWN2 game (ala SoU) rather than this. 
 Very frustrated with it. I also detest the changes to the camera work. Just when I got used to 
 the switch from NWN to NWN2, they make a half-hearted attempt to change it back again.
  
  Just give us more content, and more stories, not this nonsense. An expansion that gave us another 
 storyline with good acting and interest new classes would've been preferable to this attempt at 
 a revolution. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fscker
Rating: 2
Date: Dec 8, 2008 3:05 pm PT
Review:  I can't believe Obsidian released this... Abomination... After the excellent Mask of the Betrayer. 
 I bought this game because I heard it was supposed to be a back to the roots, styled after immortal 
 Baldur's Gate.
  Unfortunately, all this game took over from BG is an open map. After an hour of gameplay, I couldn't 
 believe my eyes.
  The whole thing feels like someone thought "hey, MMORPG's are pretty popular these days, let's 
 make a game like that only in single player!"
  They seem to have forgotten that the only thing that makes MMORPGs enjoyable is the interaction 
 with other humans. While endless monster slaughter and quests of the 'kill 5 wolves, bring me their 
 pelts, receive monies' can be fun online, they are anything but in single player. Did Obsidian forget 
 or just ignore this?
  A prerequisite for a good single player rpg is a good story. And Zehir just doesn't have one. Instead 
 of talking to living, breathing characters with unique personalities you'll spend your time walking 
 around the world map, trading, encountering monsters, random treasure caches and tiny two-room 
 dungeons with nothing but a few monsters and treasure. 
  This 'expansion' is barely worhty of being distributed free online. But pay a full price?
  Never. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: longtimegamerr
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 14, 2008 5:58 am PT
Review:  It is clear a lot of time and effort went into designing this add-on and I definitely had fun in 
 the 20 hours I spent playing it. The best thing about it is that one can create a party of 4 from 
 scratch and level them up as one plays the game. 
  
  But there's some problems too, and it mostly has to do with the game engine. The camera has multiple 
 options but none of them work well for the combat heavy gameplay. So, you'll be fiddling with the 
 camera more then one should have to. Anyone who remembers Baldur's Gate 2 will wonder why this 
 game is in 3D. 2D would solved all of the camera issues.
  
  But that's not the only problem. Again, this is a very combat heavy game and your team AI is well, 
 mostly broken. You can at anytime pause the combat and turn off the AI and manage each character. 
 That's fine, but even with the AI off, your characters dont always respond as one would expect. 
 Then there's "broadcast commands" that one can use like "follow me" and using those seems to break 
 the normal AI routines until you leave combat. In other words, the only way to play this game is 
 to keep the AI off most of the time. 
  
  And a few of my quests broke and werent completable. 
  
  It sounds like I am hating the game 
 but I'm not. I think the 3 issues above bring the score down but anyone who loves CRPG's should 
 consider the game if he is a patient gamer who doesnt mind a very wonky interface. I'd wait for 
 at least one patch though.
  
  As an aside, I loved BG2 and Icewind Dale 1, and its a shame that newer games cannot compete with 
 those classic games. I was surprised to see so much free or cheap +2 uber loot in this game right 
 from the beginning of the game! Geez, what is up with that? Part of the fun is building you team 
 from nothing, so having magical weapons and armor right from the start is disappointing. Sure I 
 can choose not to use this equipment but your enemies assume you are fully powered up, so you have 
 to use the uber-loot to succeed against magical enemies. I suspect the game developers are trying 
 to compete with other flashier RPG's out there, but I kinda think it detracts from what the DandD 
 ruleset is all about. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dun
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 5, 2008 9:34 am PT
Review:  Storm of Zehir is not without some bad factors (especially voice acting... it went real down from 
 its predecessors) however! SoZ introduces the map exploration which was great it gave the lands 
 a much more "living" feel. Some minor skills increased in importance and use, like the companions 
 persuation just to name one, which in previous games was totally useless unless it was given to 
 the player character. finally the introduced the 'merchant' style of play which was an original 
 idea and fitted nicely with the whole game. Being an expansion, i personally didn't expect it to 
 have the best storyline ever.. however it wasn't as bad as some stated. The level cap was a bit 
 of a bummer.. i liked the idea of having a badass character but it didnt really interfere with 
 me enjoying it.. On the whole it was a good addition to the series:) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: innmai
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 4, 2008 2:53 pm PT
Review:  List of issues:
    poor game play 
    spend too much time dealing with map issues
    the caves are too small
    battles too short no real story line that makes game progress 
 
    I have issues with the view always needs adjusting 
  In short ATARI would be smart to remove their name from this lemon of a game - I hope Obsidian 
 has a fix for this mess but that mean writing a whole new game.
  
  I really don't know what else to say about this game. But does anyone one know if there is a recall 
 on this game for being this crappy, anyone? If so please let me know because I would love to get 
 my money back from them.
  
  If you are getting this as a Christmas gift for someone make sure that it isn't for someone you 
 like, NO REALLY
  
  I am sorry if I offend anyone but I can't EVER remember a game that I dislike more then Storm of 
 Zehir. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lethe5683
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 25, 2009 10:02 pm PT
Review:  I don't know what they were thinking but they took a excellent game setup like they had in nwn2 
 and MotB and ruined everything that was good about it. Storyline is so simple it can be summed 
 up in one sentence. "Start on a ship which sinks and then help merchants do mediocre tasks and 
 just happen to kill some random snakes at the end." There's nothing at all interesting about it, 
 when I got to the "end" of the game I thought that it was the beginning of things actually getting 
 interesting... epic fail!
  
  Score: 1/10 - Terrible*
  Pros:
  +1 : Interesting new overland map interface.
  +1 : More Difficult Combat
  +2 : More freedom 
 to do side quests and explore.
  
  Cons:
  -1 : Annoying voice acting.
  -2 :Buggy AI makes characters useless unless directly controlled.
  -5 : Abysmal storyline
  
 
  *About my rating system: I start each game with 5/10 and add points for pros (each pro and con 
 has a number value) then subtract cons. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sridanu
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 6, 2009 2:36 am PT
Review:  When you think of a expansion for a game like NWN 2 the thoughts that would generally come to your 
 mind would be new quests, new story line and perhaps new items and classes. That was pretty much 
 offered in its 1st expansion "Mask of Betrayer".
  
  But alas this expansion falls short of even coming close to the greatness of the original and its 
 first expansion. 
  
  While playing the game you cant shake the feeling that the developers were more or less experimenting 
 with stuff. And the game it self feels more like a beta release than a final release. New concepts 
 such as trading and the overland map system are interesting but the lack of quality quests and 
 a extremely poor story make this game a complete disaster. It appears that the developers were 
 more interested in testing out the new concepts than actually creating a worth while game.
  
  Most of the quests are pretty straight forward and short and the battles are even shorter. 
 Leaving you wondering if this actually is a RPG game? And unlike its predecessors the locations 
 are very small yet it takes a very long time to load the locations. The game is also filled with 
 its fair share of bugs. 
  
  My final verdict. This is the kind of game that you should not waste your money on. Unless you 
 get it for free, don't play the game.
  
  http://gamezopinion. blogspot. com/2009/04/neverwinter-nights-2-storm-of-zehir. html 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gooeykat
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 10, 2009 5:08 pm PT
Review:  Storm of Zehir is for anyone who wants a D&D table top experience on a computer. Be warned, this 
 is not a story driven RPG. So if your looking for some epic tale of self discovery, this is not 
 it.
  
  You will enjoy this game if...
  
  - You enjoy a lot D&D combat
  - You enjoy freedom to explore the game world
  - You want to develop your own party how you want
 
  - You enjoy the D&D ruleset and want the chance to use skills that had no meaning before.
  - You enjoy gameplay first and story second
  - You love those old school RPGs of yore (such as 
 SSI's Gold Box series)
  
  I gave this game a 8.5 because Obsidian did such an excellent job in achieving this experience. 
 The game is top quality and the new features they implemented are perfectly done. Considering this 
 game implemented many new gameplay elements with minimal bugs, that is also worth the high mark.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jettokisora
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 3, 2008 1:11 pm PT
Review:  I'm keeping this short. If you like old-school adventure games, AD&D, or campy sword-and-sorcery 
 flicks, you will probably like NWN2: Storm of Zehir. If you loved the challenging party combat 
 and open-world exploration in Baldur's Gate II, you will probably like NWN2: Storm of Zehir.
  
  If you are expecting a story-driven experience with cinematic moments and BioWare/Obsidian 
 style dialogue, this is not that game. Enjoy it for what it is, and you will not be disappointed.
 
  
  The world map system is probably the most notable new feature, as it vastly changes the nature 
 of travel. The world feels immersive, alive, and dangerous in ways that games like Oblivion and 
 Fable 2 never quite captured.
  
  Simply put, this game is old-school, and only the old-school need apply. But it's a real treat 
 for those of us who are. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nuttss
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 3, 2008 5:14 am PT
Review:  
  Number One: The overland map and the ability to actually explore sounded great. However, there 
 are several downsides to this. Random encounters are ridiculously common; if you don't have a character 
 with high hide skills you'll spend hours getting from point A to point B. Even if you do have a 
 character with this skill, the game is inconsistent with what character is defaulted to as part 
 lead. This means once you finish you map with your rogue/ranger in the lead, you could end up on 
 the overhead map with you spell caster. Instantly you have all nearby monsters spotting you and 
 coming for battle. While it usually gets it right, I've had to pause immediately on loading the 
 overhead map to avoid unnecessary monster fights.
  Number Two: Load times are annoying. It isn't that they take a while, just that there are a lot 
 of them. Every encounter forces a load to the battle map and then you have to run across the battle 
 map to load back to the overhead map. These constant mini-breaks in the play add to the boring 
 factor.
  Number Three: There seems to be a lack of dungeons. I expect somewhere in this style of game for 
 there to be a large ruin/dungeon/castle/something that takes a long time to explore and clean out, 
 possibly over multiple trips as the story or character level progresses. The largest 'dungeon' 
 I have encountered so far have been about as expansive as one of the house fights in the original 
 NWN2.
  Number Four: I like that this game isn't over the top with excessively powerful loot; it seems 
 the loot drops were more basic and gold based; magical items are rare. For the first time in years 
 I found myself actually buying equipment from a vendor instead of just waiting for the relevant 
 loot to drop. Also, I found it necessary to use the crafting skills to get an item or two since 
 they weren't otherwise present. 
  Number Five: The story is weak. The new addition of being able to trade seems a distraction rather 
 than an improvement. Managing trade is not a good fit to this style of game, and getting gold isn't 
 that hard.
  Number Six: The ability, even the expectation from the developers, to create a party to use all 
 the skills in the game takes some of the challenge out of the game and definitely removes any desire 
 for replay. Most of these games require a sacrifice or tradeoff in skills. The built in mechanism 
 that let any character to jump seamlessly into a conversation to use their speech skills works 
 very well; perhaps to well.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MindMaestro
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 2, 2008 11:06 am PT
Review:  Never winter Nights 2 is a game that makes you play it over and over again. It is an exquisite piece 
 of art that dwells in your memory and engraved it's marks in our consciousness as if it was a real 
 life experience.
  
  The Mask of the Betrayer was a great game, beside the peculiar "Spirit meter" which in a retrospect 
 i find it quite memorable and even cool, this was absolutely an enjoyable voyage.
  So i find it difficult to fathom and ask my self what were these Obsidian dudes thinking when they 
 created an absolute parody of the Never winter Nights 2 concept???
  Old school??? Give me a break. You shouldn't forget the past, imagine the future, but live in the present.
 
  This is a nostalgic hysteria what's happening with this game.
  If anyone wants to play "RPG" like this then be my guests, but do not insinuate that this concept 
 is somewhat quintessential.
  You see the score from a game reviews web site who meticulously analyzed the game for quite some 
 time and guess what, they do not share your dogmatic view of the quality of this game.
  
  I can only laugh at these people who slaps 9 rating this game and even fail to grasp, why does most 
 people give such ridiculously low value to this game.
  i have even seen absurdities that Bio Ware and Blizzard were actually just doing "make up's" on 
 it's RPG's in a futile attempt to defend this game... Ludicrous.
  
  This is a terrible experience.
  Right from the start i felt so excited and thrilled, cos this 
 is something that i enjoy immensely.
  But even beside the famous details that are an essential part of the never winter nights dimension, i 
 find it really hard not to force my self to continue with this farce.
  The vast map at first seems like something Oblivion wanted to be, but never was...
  But after 
 some time spent listening to these irritating amateur sound frequencies reproducing in my ears 
 and after so many absolutely pointless encounters throughout the Overland map, i just couldn't take 
 this any more...
  It's not about the money wasted on this NW2 parody, it's about the credibility of Obsidian creative 
 standards and their tendency to gradually screw up things.
  Creating my own characters is cool??? Of course it is, but these weren't characters that ran after 
 me. They seemed more like dogs, although "Robots" is the most appropriate term to define these.
 
  Empty and emotionless figures that had only their names reminding me that these were "my creations".
 
  Even the Ranger's pet had more character then these.
  It is the characters that makes the RPG sphere so exotic and extravagant. Their egos, dark sides 
 and enthusiasm, not some map bloated mostly with pathetic creatures that no one really wants to 
 encounter and empty shells dragging from behind you.
  
  And there's the loading times that makes you just hit the monitor with your head. I am a patient 
 man, but no one deserves to waste his time on perpetual, absolutely trivial and unavoidable encounters 
 with these petty creatures.
  Beside those incredibly frequent and pointless fights in the Overlap map, you have to wait until 
 the game loads over and over and over and over and over again, until you get so tired and bored 
 with this waste of time that you just save the game, name that particular saved game with "BS" and 
 exit the game, hoping that the next day you will have the same vigor that you had when you started 
 this game for the first time.
  
  Until the time when you advance your ranger character to the highest levels, you will get so fed 
 up with this horrible repetition, that you would feel more motivated to actually install and replay 
 Titan Quest (i actually finished this THING) , rather then continue with the Storm of Zehir.
  
  The crafting concept is actually nice, but then again you wonder, why do you have to pay 4 000 
 golds for an  or cold enhancement for your weapon?!?!
  Is it a compensation for using the crafting bench??? I don't see anyone around there and this is 
 something in which you invest some hard earned experience points to achieve "Craft armor and weapons" 
 ability. I pay this for the materials??? I already have them. I pay for the marvelously crafted and 
 designed armor or weapon??? I crafted this damn thing my self damn it...
  
  To the guys that rate this waste of time highly... Leslie Nielsen made some great parodies, but you 
 actually know that these are parodies right from the start. I expected something serious out of 
 this. At least parodies are funny, this is not even a parody... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: baileybaileys
Rating: 2
Date: Dec 2, 2008 10:48 am PT
Review:  The Good: It is fun to create and tweak a completely custom party. The game has reasonably good 
 visuals and sound as well. There are plenty of new features for the modding community.
  
  The Bad: The overland map is disgusting. After running into four or five random encounters going 
 from one small village to another, I just can't take it anymore. The trade system had zero influence 
 into the game or events. The plot, party interaction, voice acting, and general atmosphere make 
 me gag. This could be the worst RPG I've played besides Gothic 3. Also, many of the cookie cutter 
 dungeons were reused from the original campaign. The lifeless towns with the same tavern keeper 
 in every inn... I've said enough.
  
  Conclusion: Buy this game only for the additional modding capabilities, and you should probably 
 do so when it goes on sale. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kbart10384
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 2, 2008 9:11 am PT
Review:  OK, so I loved NWN and really liked NWN2 and the first expansion, Mask of the Betrayer and I bought 
 this game without reading a single review b/c it's, you know, Neverwinter Nights. 
  
  Big mistake. This is not anything like NWN -- it is a rather boring RPG that looks like it was designed 
 circa 1998. I seriously don't know what is going on with Obsidian these days, but this game is 
 bad enough to tarnish the brand. Bioware's expansions to the original NWN were all generally excellent, 
 and Obsidian's NWN2 and its expansion, Mask of the Betrayer, while flawed and a bit dated in terms 
 of the graphics engine, were quite good.
  
  All of which leads me to wonder if Obsidian is simply tired of this title and is trying to kill 
 it off -- this is the only explanation that would seem to fit, as they have generally put out very 
 good games. 
  
  The interface is, to put it mildly, clunky and the storyline involves... wait for it... helping re-establish 
 mercantile routes. Or something like that. Seriously. No saving the world from the King of Shadows, 
 the evil thing inside yourself, etc., nope -- you are helping people trade stuff. Will you be a merchant 
 "hero"? Can you forge a new route for trading +1 daggers? Do you seriously care? 
  
  Oh, did I mention the new mode of travel, the "Overland" Map? A little map that shows your character 
 travelling from one uninteresting locale to another, and random monsters spawn along the way. It 
 might be pretty good for a cellphone game, but on today's PCs, it looks like someone dug up some 
 code from the days of the Pentium III and slapped it onto a title they knew would be sold based 
 largely on loyalty to the brand. 
  
  In sum, don't be a chump like me -- buy something else. I loved NWN, but in Storm of Zehir, someone 
 has killed it off and replaced it with a vastly inferior game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Catalys
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 2, 2008 7:49 am PT
Review:  Gamespot misses with its review (suprise) . Story? Who cares. This is more sandbox and though flawed, 
 it's still a gem.
  
  Does every RPG seriously need to be an interactive novel? I've enjoyed the NWN stories, don't get 
 me wrong, but without more features than running about with one player... it is very hard to get 
 through a game.
  
  The gamespot reviewer goes about saying that it's difficult to fight with the current system, that 
 it's built for one player. Well, yes, if you're controlling six player characters it does take 
 a while to manage a fight, but that's the whole point. Add to that the fact that you typically 
 don't need to so long as you steer your characters well - the AI is actually much better than it 
 ever was before, and so long as you're in a fight to win it at all costs your characters will make 
 the best choices - simply because they choose to lob fireballs at low-level mobs does not mean 
 they're not making good decisions, it just means you've not got a decent enough char to run through 
 the sword coast effectively so you're worried about the next encounter. 
  
  Though simple, the trade is effective and fun. The reviewer doesn't even mention caravans, which 
 though they will be waylaid constantly if you're around and encounters are popping out of the woodworks, 
 are at least fun to manage. The encounters do occur at too rapid a pace - even if you can cut through 
 swaths of them, they're annoying and occur so often that graycloaks have a hard time surviving 
 long enough to defend a caravan. That's one reason I've given the game an 8.5 rather than a 9. 
 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Archades2112
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 2, 2008 9:56 am PT
Review:  The fact that it took Gamespot two weeks to review Storm of Zehir is a telling sign of the times. 
 Those of you who only take interest in RPGs for:
  
  1. Hype
  
  2. Interface
  
  and
  
  3. Cinema
  
  Stop it, Just stop it.
  
  As Role-Playing Games have become more 
 mainstream, it seems these are the only features that matter. Nowadays, it takes a heavy dose of 
 BS to be successful. Companies such as Squaresoft, Bethaesda, Bioware, and Blizzard only masquerade 
 at giving anything more than an interactive movie. Back in 1991, when I played Final Fantasy 4, 
 this was quite refreshing. I had fun and I didn't have to put any effort into it. But over time 
 I started to feel a lack of pride and enjoyment that actually comes from figuring things out. I 
 used to have nothing but respect for the aforementioned companies. But sadly, much like the media, 
 they have sold their souls and taken the easy way out.
  
  It is no suprise then that I only marginally enjoyed NWN2 and its 1st expansion, Mask of the Betrayer. 
 To me, they felt like cheap KotOR knockoffs (Bioware's last good game) . I felt this was excusable, 
 however, since NWN is more about toolsets and modding than the included campaign. Anyone seriously 
 into D&D (not 4th Edition) knows this is the true spirit of RPGs to begin with. That is to say 
 that true adventure is finding your own way, not somebody else's...
  
  This is where Storm of Zehir shines. Making your own party, exploring multiple world maps, and 
 doing things your way. A heavily focused storyline would have taken away from this feeling of freedom. 
 I'm sick of games that let you play evil, but force you to save the world. I'm also sick of games 
 which do this up until the final moment where a single choice gives you multiple endings. While 
 crafting several complete story paths might have been ideal, one can't realistically expect such 
 a small team (half the size of MotB) to account for this. Also, while the voice acting is far from 
 great, it should be noted that many characters were voiced by the game's designers due to a limited 
 budget.
  
  Obsidian should be applauded for taking a bold step away from newer, more generic RPGs. In Storm 
 of Zehir, I was actually rewarded for using my party's skills! Anyone who complains about having 
 to use a ranger for his vast expertise has no business reviewing an RPG, in my opinion. True adventurers 
 will revel in the new trading, crafting, and conversation systems. The small team at Obsidian did 
 an admirable job of marrying these qualities together, and the whole experience is accompanied 
 by one of the best soundtracks of all time.
  
  There are a few glitches, as I'm sure can be read in many reviews. The AI isn't always optimal, 
 and loading screens are a little too frequent. However, in this expansion, the Pros definitely 
 outweigh the Cons. That, and there will be mods- 
  
  Oh yes, There Will Be Mods! 
  
  The new features will undoubtedly be a paradise for the strong NWN2 community. It's a community 
 that prides itself on being real Role-Players. A community that might be the last bastion for those 
 who truly enjoy an old school experience, instead of some facade. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: olafquimbyII
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 2, 2008 4:05 am PT
Review:  I'll prefact this by saying that I've played NWN since it shipped, was a member of a popular guild, 
 and have run PWs. built modules and participated in many DM'ed games, so I am a NWN addict.
  
  This is an excellent expansion, I've not really experienced the problems noted in the main 
 review, if you've played through the OC, MOTB and now Zehir the interface is drilled into your 
 brain and is reasonably painless. The overland map is a great fun addition, I REALLY liked this 
 element, this took me back to the random encounters from BG1 and was a great addon that really 
 got me thinking about starting to build again.
  
  The new conversation system is frankly awesome, for saying the companions are not scripted, they 
 ended up with more personality than many scripted characters as they get great dialogue choices 
 depending on alignment, skills and religion.
  
  I'm not through the main story but so far it's great, the slant of using a mercantile house to 
 push the story along is a refreshing change from the previous D&D games and coming off the great 
 epic campaign that was MOTB was a welcome change of pace, the start to the campaign is the most 
 fun I can recall having at the start of one of these games since the original BG.
  
  This is an excellent title, it moves the game and concept of D&D games forward, adds to the great 
 franchise, and gives grist to the building mill that is the great NWN community, go buy it, you 
 can get it online from Atari for peanuts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Heggeman
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 29, 2008 7:36 pm PT
Review:  NWN2: Storm of Zehir adds some interesting features. The overland map is a great improvement over 
 the travel map of the original NWN2 system. The ability to create your own party is also a nice 
 new feature, which allows you to balance your party to your own needs. Finally, the new resting 
 and dying system adds a whole new dimension to the game.
  
  The overland map is a double edged sword. Yes, it makes the world seem more real, but it also forces 
 you into repeated encounters. Fighting five groups of megaraptors on the way to a temple is just 
 annoying. This just forces you to keep a ranger in your party, and that dosn't always work. Overall 
 I do like this feature, but it needed more variety in "random events"
  
  The party creation is an interesting tool as well. It allows you to make a party of 3 and one main 
 character. You can one expac companion (eventually 2 if you reach a higher level) . This forces 
 you to make a perfect group though. You need your tanks healers and nukers, which is fine, but 
 you had better make sure you've got healers.
  The real drawback of this system though, is the total departure from the NWN standard, which is 
 the story. Your past companions all had stories. You can't even talk to your companions, and the 
 ones you come across have almost nothing to say once they join you.
  
  The areas you travel to often take you far from your home base, so your interaction with your companions 
 is always with them in your group, where they can't be spoken to. There are a few token lines that 
 they speak at the inn, when not grouped. They also sometimes can interject in conversations in 
 the story, but rarely interesting, mostly these interactions just make use of their stats (lore, 
 bluff ect) .
  
  The changes to the resting system add a sense of urgency to the game. It was touted as adding a 
 need for strategy, but more often than not it just forces you to use a ton of healing kits (which 
 are not all that easy to come by in the game) . Melee characters are much, much easier to use in 
 the game, as casters are really gimped by only being able to rest before and after a dungeon crawl. 
 This is where those random encounters on the overland map get really annoying. I wont say the new 
 dying mechanic is bad, but it is draining on the patience. Some of the encounters are fairly involved, 
 just for the fact that the whole dungeon zergs you once you enter, so group members are going to 
 die. (yes I'm talking about you Crisie my squishy ranger) . But, micromanaging every combat move 
 so everyone stays alive gets boring. The AI just isn't as good as the other nwn2 predecessors. 
 As a result of the new mechanic, and questionable ai, you end up using a ton of healer kits. Perhaps 
 I should go back and try it on easy before I pass judgment on that though.
  
  The final thing, which matters to me most, is the story. This is a hack and slash from start to 
 finish. Rarely do the developers confuse you with meaningful dialogue, or those pesky moral choices. 
 The sandbox aspect of the trade minigame could have been expanded to actually have a point. Yes 
 you could make more money, but you never really added any plot by expanding your trade empire. 
 The few quests you got from the trade cartel where not even dependant on your trade advancement.
 
  
  The companions lacked any real side story. You got a hint of what could be before they joined you, 
 but after they did you never heard a peep. The main story arch was very linear.... literally. You 
 pretty much followed a road through the plot, and it only had a half dozen plot encounters, none 
 of which allowed you to make a meaningful decision. You are always forced into one action to progress 
 the plot. It was bad story telling. The story could have been good, but it was done poorly.
  
  Overall I'll say that it wasn't a bad module, but if I'm going to spend $30 on an expansion 
 I expect more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fastpunk
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 1, 2009 2:05 pm PT
Review:  Storm of Zehir (SoZ) is the second expansion to Obsidian's both highly acclaimed and highly criticized 
 Dungeons & Dragons RPG, Neverwinter Nights 2 (NWN2) , sequel to Bioware's 2002 hit. This second 
 expansion brings a lot of new things to the table and is a pretty big departure for the series. 
 Is that a good things or a bad thing? Read on to find out.
  
  Before we move on, lets get one thing straight: knowledge of the events related in the NWN2 campaign 
 is not required, although SoZ is an expansion, so you DO need a copy of NWN2 in order to play it. 
 You DO NOT need the first expansion pack, Mask of the Betrayer (MotB) . And fear not, all those 
 new classes and races added by MotB are included with SoZ. Also, this being a review of the SECOND 
 expansion to NWN2, I will assume that you have some basic familiarity with the game, which is why 
 I will not go into details about the core game mechanics or the character system.
  
  Let's start off with some info about story and setting. SoZ brings you to the exotic (and mysterious) 
 island nation of Samarach... but your arrival is a bit bumpy as your ship suffers some damage after 
 being hit by a massive storm. You manage to get to shore (way off from your destination though) , 
 and just your luck, you are welcomed by a tribe of cannibalistic batiri. With no equipment to speak 
 of, you'll have to improvise in order to survive. After this short prologue, you are brought to 
 the city of Samargol by a Samarach patrol. And it is here where the adventure begins. But exploring 
 Samarach is only one half of the picture. You'll get to revisit the Sword Coast too, though much 
 weakened after the war with the shadow army from NWN2's campaign. It's an effective premise for 
 an exploration-oriented game. Yes, I said exploration-oriented, story is not the focus this time. 
 Which is probably why it's nothing to write home about.
  
  Moving on, let's see what's new. In terms of races, the Obsidian team added the gray orcs and the 
 yuan-ti. In terms of classes we have the Swashbuckler as a base class, and the Doomguide of Kelemvor 
 and Hellfire Warlock as prestige classes. Also, SoZ features a dozen new enemies, over 100 new 
 items and a lot of new spells, feats and character backgrounds. These things are all nice but none 
 of them actually change the NWN2 experience in a significant way. So what I'll mention next are 
 the four main new features that do have a powerful impact on the experience, and give SoZ a different 
 feel when compared to previous NWN games.
  
  1. Party Creation:
  This expansion marks a first for the series: it gives you the opportunity to personally create 
 all your party members (to a maximum of 4) . And since NWN2 character creation is ridiculously deep, 
 this is quite a feature. And if you don't like spending much time at the party creation screen 
 there's always a list of pre-generated characters for you to choose from... or the 'recommend' 
 button. Of course, throughout the game you'll also be able to pick up companions, but bear in mind 
 that your party is limited to 5 people (6 if you take the Leadership party feat) . Companions (or 
 cohorts) are not really too talkative either, and thus less interesting or appealing when compared 
 to companions from previous NWN2 campaigns. Some are more interesting than others though, as they 
 will not travel with you immediately, some will require payment, others a favor, others will only 
 be with you for a short time etc. They're a quiet bunch, and if you ask me, that is nice for a 
 change. Too many games have companions that talk a lot and say nothing interesting.
  
  2. The Party Conversation System:
  This is quite possibly the best new feature that SoZ has got 
 to offer. What happens is that all your party members participate in dialogs. How? By using their 
 skills or sometimes their class specific abilities (like a Druid's ability to talk to animals) . 
 Your dialog window displays the portraits of all your party members and you can switch between 
 them freely. And when a character has something to add to the conversation, a text bubble appears 
 on his/her portrait. The great news is that dialogs in SoZ are chock-full of skillchecks (you can 
 expect about 3/4 of the game's skill list to come into use) , which means a lot of extra dialog 
 lines and a lot of unique responses from NPCs. There are plenty of instances where dialogs will 
 change quest outcomes and such but don't expect massive story altering situations. Ultimately, 
 the role of this system is to add a touch of personality to your generated party members, and it 
 succeeds admirably.
  
  3. The Overland Map:
  NWN2 and MotB felt pretty confined most of the time. The Overland Map changes that. This feature 
 is basically a 3D environment that weaves together every area of the game. It is populated by cities, 
 dungeons, roaming monsters and a lot of secrets, which you'll need to discover by exploring. For 
 the Overland Map you need a few skills in order to get by: Hide and Move Silently for evading unwanted 
 encounters, Spot and Listen for detecting enemies or hidden things, and Survival for moving across 
 various types of terrain as fast as possible. There are other skills in use too, but these four 
 are the basics. It's very important that you build a character that has these skills (a rogue or 
 a ranger will do) if you don't want to fight encounter after encounter. The implementation of this 
 feature could have been better (fewer encounters would have been nice) but overall, it succeeds 
 in giving SoZ and open-ended feeling. And it's quite nice looking as well.
  
  Somewhat related to the Overland Map is area design, and I shall discuss it now, before moving 
 on to the fourth new feature. This aspect is a mixed bag. On the one hand, you will visit areas 
 that feel rather generic. Indeed, many areas are generic temples, inns, ruins or caves, that have 
 little personality. On the other hand, you'll explore some pretty interesting places too, places 
 that have interesting quests attached to them, or even interesting origins. Though one common thread 
 for all areas is their size, which is rather small. But you know, it keeps the action going and 
 you'll be mixing it up, constantly moving from combat, to exploration, to dialog, to trading etc. 
 I can't say that I'm happy with what was done in terms of area design, but I'd be lying if I said 
 that it bothered me enough to affect my enjoyment of the game.
  
  4. The Trading System:
  Trading is a pretty cool addition to gameplay. You'll interact with this system a few times as 
 part of the main story, but the bulk of it is optional. However, not trying it is a shame because 
 trading is a lot of fun. It's not very deep but there's fun to be had in trading goods, establishing 
 trade posts in various cities, and building trade caravans. My only complaint is that the system 
 is geared towards people who only interact with it as part of the main story. In other words, it 
 rewards you with a lot for doing little. People who put extra attention into it will become filthy 
 rich, thus significantly easing their struggle for survival by giving them access to basically 
 any piece of equipment they desire. It's a shame, because the game is pretty well balanced otherwise.
 
  
  So these are the four major new features brought by SoZ, but not the only ones. The core gameplay 
 has received a few upgrades. For example, the combat system benefits from an improved AI system 
 for both enemies and party members. The list of behavior tweaks you can perform on companions is 
 impressive so you should take your time to get them just right. Enemies are smarter too, which 
 translates into generally more challenging combat than NWN2. Although you should keep in mind that 
 the gameworld is not level-scaled, which means that depending on your party's level, some areas 
 can either hard or easy.
  
  And besides the aforementioned tweaks, the loot has also been adjusted a bit. No more +3 swords 
 of awesomeness everywhere, you'll be lucky to find a +2 greatsword for your fighter before hitting 
 the teen levels. And that's great if you ask me, I always found previous NWN games to be excessive 
 as far as loot is concerned.
  
  Crafting is pretty cool too, specially now, after yet another overhaul. You need a workbench, the 
 right recipe and items, and voila, you're done. Recipes can be bought at stores and are automatically 
 added to your recipe books, which keep the inventory a bit more organized. It's a welcomed tweak, 
 as probably the best weapons you'll use in the earlier stages are the ones crafted by yourself.
 
  
  Of more important concern is quest design. SoZ is pretty varied in this regard: from more complex 
 quests with multiple choices and outcomes, to more run-of-the-mill stuff. The latter is predominant, 
 though even the run-of-the-mill quests have an interesting twist every now and then.
  
  To close this off, I wish to remind you that this game is about exploration first and foremost, 
 so don't go in expecting a story-driven campaign. It's not the NWN2 you knew; yet it also is. It's 
 the same engine, so some of the problems are the same: some clunky interface elements (like the 
 inventory) , camera problems, long loading times (usually on systems with less than 1.5GB of RAM) , 
 and frame-rate dips in certain areas. In terms of visuals, Obsidian has done a good job with the 
 tech they have, but the engine's age is starting to show. Things are much better in terms of sound, 
 as ambient effects have slightly been improved over previous NWN2 campaigns, while the music is 
 better than ever. Sweeping, epic in a good way, it's the perfect companion for your adventures. 
 Voice acting isn't too good, though there's little of it anyway.
  
  That about covers the most important aspects of Storm of Zehir. I must confess that my initial 
 intention was to score this game with an 8.0, but it gets an extra half point for providing a lot 
 of great content for modders, and a pretty powerful toolset as well. As far as I am concerned, 
 the game has kept me hooked from start to finish. If it will do the same for you is a different 
 matter. Just keep in mind that this is an exploration based game first and foremost. Cheers! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hamarabi2006
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 5, 2008 2:59 am PT
Review:  SoZ abandons the very qualities that I most enjoyed about NWN2: OC and MOTB and replaced them with 
 dull game mechanics that I never wanted. The powerful story, the interactive cinematics, the well 
 fleshed out companions, the incredible voice acting, they were all very memorable in NWN2: OC and 
 MOTB. You either loved or hated the companions in the OC and MOTB, but they were still very memorable. 
 For example, I hated Zhjaeve because the way she talked, "know that I talk weird", Bishop because 
 he was evil and betrayed me, and Grobnar because he was slightly off his rocker and just a bit 
 too goofy for my taste. I didn't have a strong opinion about the Construct (he's just a machine) , 
 Shandra (she complained alot) , Casavir (was a valiant, chivalrous hero) , Qara (spicy and hot headed) , 
 or Elanee (tree hugger) even though they are very memorable characters. But I loved Khelgar (strong, 
 brawler, loved to knock some heads in for fun, loyal true friend) , Neeshka (cute attitude, sly, 
 and smart) , and Sand (highly intelligent, sophisticated demeanor, slightly self absorbed but what 
 mage isn't?) , because they were all loyal and true friends. Especially Khelgar, because he was 
 just so cool! I loved Ammon Jerro's character too, but he had his own motives, so I couldn't really 
 call him a loyal and true friend. LOL
  
  In regard to the cinematics of the OC and MOTB, some might say, "If I wanted to watch a movie, 
 I would go to the theatre.", but I argue that the cinematics were much more like taking part in 
 the movie rather than just watching it. I would also argue that if I wanted nothing but a hack-n-slash 
 game I would go play Diablo II or Titan Quest or if I wanted a trading game I would buy something 
 with Tycoon in it's name or if I wanted a strategy game I would buy Civilization IV or Sins of 
 a Solar Empire. Why? Because those games are top notch in delivering that kind of gameplay. Nothing 
 about SoZ is memorable, except for the complete disappointment. The magic combat is still fun, 
 but you can't give SoZ credit for that. And the story? Give me a break! The only thing you can 
 say about the story is that it is short and doesn't require you to follow it or even pay attention.
 
  
  People that complained about the NWN2: Original Campaign and Mask of the Betrayer's deep, compelling, 
 yet linear story and game design, and fleshed out companions who offered extensive, yet interesting 
 dialogue, and lengthy, yet excellent voice acting will probably love the bare-bones sandbox direction 
 that SoZ took. It's a Linear vs. Non-Linear preference that will very likely influence your decision 
 to love or hate the Storm of Zehir expansion. Since, there are plenty of discussions on the internet 
 about the merits of each gameplay style, I won't bore you with the details, here. But of course, 
 there are folks who enjoy both types of gameplay.
  
  I personally found that SoZ's particular non-linear style became very boring after a while because 
 nothing interesting happened for very long periods of time. I could very easily have downloaded 
 a free hack-n-slash-no-story mod from the Neverwinter Vault and had a better experience. If you 
 just like the NWN2 combat (which I love) , I suggest saving your money and downloading a Battle 
 Arena type mod from the Neverwinter Vault, that is, unless you just really want to check out the 
 Overland Map features that were added in this expansion.
  
  On with the Review:
  
  The good: Overland Map offers great potential for modders. Other party member social skills are 
 used in Conversations. 
  
  The bad: The Overland Map takes away more than it gives (explained later) . The trading game is 
 underdeveloped and unsatisfying. Constant loading for every single short encounter (even if you 
 have a ranger with maxed hide, move silently, survival skills --- the short, random, meaningless, 
 uninteresting, and unrewarding encounters happen far too often) . Long Loading for small one or 
 two room areas. Short -- weak -- and uninteresting story. Cohorts are shallow and empty -- they 
 add nothing to the experience. This game is like an average mod found on the Neverwinter Vault, 
 except for the Overland Map and Party Conversation improvements.
  
  Story: Boring, short, not very engaging -- extremely slow paced. The story starts out fine, but 
 then comes to an almost complete halt after twenty minutes of gameplay, then very little happens 
 until the last 2 hours of the game.
  
  Companions: Cohorts contribute almost nothing to the experience. Very minimal voice acting, mostly 
 dialogue text.
  
  Voice Acting: Sa'Sani's voice was unconvincing or fake, otherwise unremarkable. Her voice acting 
 reminded me of when I was a kid and my grandmother tried to make up voices for every character 
 in the book she was reading to me. She usually exaggerated the voices, like the evil laugh, "muahahaha!" 
 for the bad guy. Sure, it was sweet of her to try and I enjoyed it when I was a kid, but I am not 
 very impressed by such an effort in my adulthood, especially in a role playing game who's developers 
 were formerly praised for including excellent voice acting in their earlier titles. Also, the earlier 
 companions that I was able to locate in SoZ left me so unimpressed that I didn't even bother checking 
 out the rest of them. Very minimal voice acting. Replaced with mostly text dialogue.
  
  Graphics: Mostly Beautiful, but Character faces are still not very attractive.
  
  Music: Amazing.
 
  
  Atmosphere, Battle, and Other Sounds: Top notch.
  
  Cut Scenes: Mostly done away with and replaced with text dialogue options box.
  
  Fun Factor: 
 Mostly boring, because the trading game was just not fun at all, was so simplistic that it seemed 
 more geared for a young child, and took so long to complete that I lost interest in what little 
 story there was. I just didn't care anymore. Also, the constant loading for short encounters or 
 small areas was very annoying, even aggravating. The Cohorts have almost no value and what they 
 do offer is mostly unlikable. Melee combat is still boring, but Magic combat is still as fun, exciting, 
 and visually splendid as ever.
  
  Difficulty: Medium to Hard. Random encounters on the Overland Map can very often be overpowering 
 because they are of much higher level. A nice challenge if you are up to it, but the constant loading 
 for each encounter is a drag.
  
  Depth and Length of Game: Short and unsatisfying. This game is a good mod, but not a good expansion.
 
  
  Re-Playability: Never again.
  
  Overall: 5 out of 10. The annoyances outweigh the positives, by far.
  
  
  
  Summary: In 
 my opinion, the OC and MOTB are nearly tied with both offering top-notch RPG gaming quality, but 
 SoZ doesn't even belong in the same company. I consider SoZ a good mod not a good expansion. However, 
 If SoZ had at least somewhat of an interesting or engaging story, likable companions with good 
 voice acting, more interesting random encounters or at least, the elimination of constant loading 
 for every single battle, a more fleshed out - less boring - trading game, it would have scored 
 much higher because the Overland Map and Party Conversation changes have great potential. Unfortunately, 
 all of the battles from the Overland Map are an annoying and even aggravating chore because you 
 are forced to wait for the game to load the battle area for every single very short encounter. 
 Many of the discovered areas are only one or two room excursions and are hardly worth the effort 
 to check them out. In the OC and MOTB all encounters for the area are pre-loaded, so once you enter 
 the area you are able to go from one encounter to the next without the long delays in between the 
 fun.
  
  Much praise can be given for the Overland Map and party conversation improvements, however, these 
 things do not help SoZ compare to the OC or MOTB. The Overland Map is a blessing and a curse. You 
 have wide open freedom to explore, but the areas you can explore are no longer large, lush, beautiful, 
 and atmospheric. It's just a flat map. The new party contribution to skill checks in dialogue does 
 not offer any meaningful or desirable reward for success in SoZ. Besides, It's like having a skill-bot 
 take over every skill check in the game so you never fail. If you got rid of those two additions, 
 SoZ would not measure up to it's predecessors because other very important RPG content is severely 
 lacking. For example, the weak story could be told, in it's entirety, with just a few paragraphs 
 and the companions or cohorts are as shallow and empty as a plastic cup with a hole in it.
  
  Again, the story is short, weak, and disappointing (I just don't care what happened, what is 
 happening, or what is going to happen) , the cohorts are empty and shallow, and the trading game 
 is underdeveloped and unsatisfying. SoZ added two great things to the series and neglected a third 
 addition which had such great potential, but sacrificed what was so good about the OC and MOTB; 
 therefore, SoZ is an inferior product. 
  
  FINAL THOUGHTS: For me, I am not happy about the direction Neverwinter Nights is heading. Actually, 
 I am very disappointed. In my opinion, Neverwinter Nights should not try to compete with Strategy 
 games like Civilization IV or Sins of a Solar Empire because it just looks bad (example: the SoZ 
 trading game is so underdeveloped that it subtracts from the whole) . More importantly, Neverwinter 
 Nights should absolutely positively never try to mimic Sand-Box games like Oblivion, because that 
 is where it will lose it's strengths. I say don't sacrifice what is great about Neverwinter Nights 
 just to become a mediocre example of those other genres, because those particular game developers 
 do that type of gameplay so much better. Not to mention, those particular game developers spend 
 their entire budget on that type of gameplay, so how can you compete? I say stick with what you 
 are good at and that's making some of the best RPGs on the planet (NWN2: OC and MOTB) .
  
  Nonetheless, If Obsidian can combine the open-endedness of the Overland Map with the deep and compelling 
 storytelling that we know they are capable of, likable companions with good voice acting, more 
 interesting random encounters on the Overland Map or at least, the elimination of constant loading 
 for every single battle, a more fleshed out - less boring - trading game for their next expansion, 
 they might have the makings of a truly remarkable experience that most everyone could enjoy ... 
 possibly a Masterpiece.
  
  For all of you disappointed "Story-Driven RPG Lovers" out there, we can at least look forward to 
 "Dragonage: Origins" which will be released right around the corner (March of 2009 for the PC) .
 
  
  My PC Specs:
  
  MB: Biostar TForce 550 SE 
  CPU: AMD Athlon 64 X2 5600+ Brisbane
  GPU: Geforce 9600GT 512mb 256bit GDR3 PCIE
  RAM: G. SKILL (4 x 1GB) 240-Pin DDR2 800 (PC2 6400) 
 
  HDD: WD Caviar Black 640GB 7200 RPM SATA 3.0Gb/s 32mb cache
  PSU: HIPER HPU-4M480-PS 480W
  CASE: COOLER MASTER Centurion 5 CAC-T05-UB Black
  DVD: LiteOn 
 16x DVD+-R/+-RW, +/-R DL Burner 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LadyNaz
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 26, 2008 7:43 am PT
Review:  I am still debating if I like the overview map and how it works this time around.
  Still getting a feel for the game, but the added bonus is,
  It uses the same cheats as it did 
 in NWN2, so IF you need help, look for those here as well, on GameSpot.
  Also I have noticed that the load time and the saving time are SLOW. I don't remember the load 
 time and save time being this bad in NWN2 and that is a tad disappointing, and seems to make the 
 game a lil bit of a pain and boring.
  The other thing in the game is, people in your party get to communicate and speak their mind in 
 a conversation you might have with another AL in the game. That can ither make them mad or help 
 you. It's nice to see that the writters went a distance and wrote more dialog for everyone in your 
 party, it gives it an interesting approach and shows that other people have minds too.
  All in all so far; so good. Im glad it came out, it's fun to play, but I would of waited till it 
 went on sale, for a 10$ sticker price.
  It's not horrible, it's not bad, it's just pretty much like all the others. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshuapaul
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 24, 2008 10:06 pm PT
Review:  I've been a big fan of the D&D RPG's over the years, I especially loved Baldurs Gate II and all 
 the customizability and replayability that came with it. Needless to say I was very excited for 
 NWN2: SoZ because it sounded very much like a BGII type of game... full party customization, world 
 map exploration, etc.
  
  On the surface, there are some nice graphical updates, although the engine is beginning to show 
 its age. Considering graphics are not always emphasized when it comes to RPG's I think the updates 
 are good. I have a fairly good gaming rig and can run SoZ on higher setting (resolution, etc.) 
 than I could MotB. My main dissapointment is (as it was with MotB) the lack of new item designs. 
 The 2-handed axe I used in vanilla NWN2 looks exactly like the 2-handed axe my Grey Orc fighter 
 is using now, some new textures would have done a lot to breathe some life into the itemization, 
 I think.
  
  One thing I found very surprising (and real dissapointment) is the fact that you cannot explore 
 most cities. When you approach a city on the world map, a window pops up and gives you the option 
 to trade, visit the inn, or leave. That's it. This just seems plain old lazy in my opinion. I really 
 didn't expect that from this game, but oh well. All travel takes place on the "World Map", which 
 puts your lead character in isometric perspective (think Diablo 2 type camera angle) and you manually 
 run around, discovering new areas, ore veins, various roaming enemies etc. I think the world map 
 is a cool idea, and to me, it's more engaging than just clicking on a town and seeing a load screen. 
 
  
  The character customization is great, you can switch out party members by visiting an inn, and 
 using the "guest book" which lets you adapt your party to any situation. There are two new classes, 
 neither of which I've played (they are both prestige classes and my characters are not that advanced 
 yet =D) . Personally they don't seem like "brand new" or groundbreaking, but it's something new 
 to try and I expect I'll give the hellfire warlock a go one of these days...
  
  The story so far is, just like you've come to expect from the NWN series, very good. I won't give 
 away any details here, but I'm thoroughly enjoying the new story and setting.
  
  All in all, I think the expansion is a great value (only $30 US) and is definately worth checking 
 out, especially if you're a fan of the series. The engine is starting to show it's age a bit, and 
 so far I have seen very few new item models, but the world-map concept and the chance to play through 
 a new story I haven't memorized makes this x-pack a great buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChaosIncarnate
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 23, 2008 4:30 pm PT
Review:  I'm a long time fan of these D&D PC games, and I've enjoyed them all immensely up to this point. 
 That said, I was very disappointed with this new expansion.
  
  The overland map is a cool addition, and convinced me to use skills I've previously considered 
 useless. It's large and there are a lot of things to be found, and it serves actively in gameplay. 
 This is good, because you will spend about 95% of your time on it. Unfortunately, it comes with 
 a great many sacrifices; that is, the entire rest of the game.
  
  The games story is as basic, boring, and as nonexistent as it could be and still have one. There's 
 very few quests that actually pertain to the main story, that is, Zehir and what he wants. There's 
 no grand scheme, no hidden intentions, no engrossing plot line or engaging characters, as we have 
 come to know in the previous Bioware games. It has all been replaced by the over world map. If 
 you care to read it, I will reveal the whole plot in one short sentence at the end of the review.
 
  
  A sacrifice made was dungeons and cities. There's perhaps 2 dozen places on the world map you can 
 actually enter, including 3 towns. Of these few dungeons all but one are little more than, if at 
 all, one room. If you roll all of them together you might have roughly the mass of one dungeon 
 from previous games. The towns aren't much bigger. Prepare to explore nothing more than the world 
 map.
  
  There's no engaging characters to be found anymore either. You're entire party is made by you, 
 a nice addition, but it will feel like laziness when you play the game, because they really add 
 nothing to the game you couldn't get with a single character, barring the obvious ability to make 
 your own characters. The cohorts will further make you're additional party members feel unnecessary, 
 as they can now be classed any way you can make them fit, and add nothing to the game besides bodies 
 to the party (like you're extra people) . If anything, having a party of your own hurts re-playability, 
 because with a varied party you can use whatever speech or skill option you choose at any time, 
 so there's no need to replay with a different character with different skills to see how the game 
 would be different. Most of the speech and skill options end you up the same way anyway.
  
  Interesting non-party-NPC's are missing too. There's no grand villian at all. Sorry but Zehir is 
 not in the game, and you won't even know who the final guy is till you kill him, and you'll never 
 know what he wants. It's a small blessing, because the bad guy really does nothing in the game, 
 so you don't really care who he is anyway. I think they only put a final encounter into the game 
 so the game would end. In all likelihood, you will only remember 2 non-party-NPC's in the game, 
 because that is the only 2 you will talk to more than once. 
  
  There aren't many quests to be found in the game, and they aren't really that interesting. Pretty 
 much the basic go and kill quests, with a tiny few with more interesting choices. There's maybe 
 a handful of new items in the game, but most are simply reused pieces from the main game and previous 
 expansion.
  
  I had read this game was supposed to add up to 30 hours of gameplay, and it might, although this 
 number clearly expects you to fight random battles constantly on the world map and spend a lot 
 of time exploring on you're own. If you simply did the quests and the story while avoiding trade 
 and random encounters, the game might last 6 hours.
  
  There is also a lot of glitches in the game. I shipped resources back to my headquarters and could 
 not remove them from the warehouse, ever. The game mysteriously lags in single player, a lot. You 
 will run a ways and suddenly teleport back to the the door. On a related note, I would get randomly 
 kicked from dungeons and into the world map. Also, for some reason I could no longer level up my 
 warlock as a Hellfire Warlock past level 3. It simply did not let me choose to level up as one, 
 even though I still met the requirements. There is also a quest to help some chickens, but after 
 when I found them again and entered the encounter, it was empty, and it has remained that way since. 
 I also went through a lot of pains because my characters would get stuck on EVERYTHING and I often 
 found myself moving them individually (the only good thing about the dungeons being so small, and 
 they don't make you group you're party to use exits) . Finally, during the final encounter, my 2 
 cohorts fell through the floor and were stuck, and couldn't do anything the entire battle.
  
  That said, the new prestige classes are cool, and the new races are a nice addition. The one 
 nice thing about the world map is I'm sure a lot of modders will do some amazing things with it. 
 However, I'm not the kind to play user made campaigns, so this means little to me. The music is 
 nice, and I even found myself listening to it on occasions. But as far as gameplay goes, there's 
 really none to be found.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  SPOILER
  
 
  
  So you decided you'd like to know if the story is worth it before you play after reading my review? 
 Well here it is:
  
  
  
  
  
  
  -Some Yuan-ti have turned to a new god (Zehir) and want world dominion.-
  
  There it was, the 
 whole story. Exciting eh? You can actually finish the whole game and only fight 9 agents of Zehir, 
 and in case you are wondering, yes, that would be the final encounter, although only 2 of those 
 agents worth giving unique titles to, and none of them were worth having a name. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dkns
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 23, 2008 8:43 am PT
Review:  The premis of the game was to re-interduce party construction and management, this has been done 
 very well. It is fun to set up and tinker with your party to get it just the way you want.... Back 
 to the good old day of Icewind Dale and Baulders Gate. Game play not much diffrent then the original 
 OC and MoTB. However this expansion lets you down in it's substance. The overworld, great idea, 
 but slides quickly into frustration and repetiveness. You are constantly waiting for your next 
 random encounter to load, and then instead of having group of monsters, that proves to be the challange 
 the EL claims. They just fall over (this is even on the hardest setting in the game) . The complete 
 lack of a major dungeon to loot, with a big bad-assed boss at the end is a major let down.... all 
 in all Starts off great and trails down to just playable... not what I had envisioned from the promo's...... not 
 alot of truth in advertising here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woven1
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 23, 2008 6:10 am PT
Review:  Nothing in SoZ is fleshed out. The story and the plot progression are minimal, the characters and 
 conversations lack any semblance of depth. The overland map, while an interesting idea with a lot 
 of potential, reminds me of a 10 year old JRPG in it's simplicity. Combat is dry and repetitive 
 - not just because the combat mechanics in the engine aren't the best, but because the way they 
 chose to randomize the encounters ensured that every fight in the game lacked any sort of character, 
 imagination or unique challenge. The only battle worth a damn comes right at the very end, and 
 the conclusion to that fight is underwhelming at best.
  
  I admire some of the ideas behind this game. The impression I take away from playing it, however, 
 is that they were given an extremely small budget, an extremely small staff to work on it, and 
 told to have it ready in an extremely short time frame (and that some member of the staff had a 
 serious nostalgia attack for old-school Final Fantasy or Dragon Quest games) .
  
  I love NWN and BG. I also loved IWD. This game is a departure in style from NWN towards IWD, as 
 everyone is quick to point out; but it half-asses it and seems to fail at being either sort of 
 game, and most assuredly doesn't have any sort of redeeming quality of it's own.
  
  Dissapointed because of how good the previous expansion and OC were. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Emilyek_1
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 30, 2008 3:02 pm PT
Review:  First let me say that I enjoyed NWN2. It was rather cartoony and comic-booky, but it still felt 
 and played like a full-fledged title. MotB, on the other hand, was clearly a falling away from 
 major-IP status, it being much narrower fundamentally than the official campaign and containing 
 a deep but nerd-recondite plot that no one but a virgin LARPer could really connect with. While 
 Storm of Zehir dials back this hardcore fanbase pandering and introduces some new macromechanics, 
 what ends up being most memorable about it are the many brief but bright flashes of developer inspiration 
 contained throughout, something usually found in much older games of its type.
  
  SoZ is a player-made-party game, and you can really get your geek on composing a band of adventurers 
 with the DnD 3.5 ruleset. (In the prologue you create up to a party of four, which eventually can 
 be expanded to six.) Conversations with NPCs are now open for all members to use their various 
 personality skills -- i. e., you can let your fighter intimidate or your Paladin choose a diplomatic 
 route. Obsidian deserves praise for actually following through with this new mechanic instead of 
 just putting it in place; it's not a gimmick, since most lines of dialogue offer responses relevant 
 to your party members' particular skills and statistics. With each subsequent dialogue interaction, 
 your characters begin to take on personalities of their own, the game itself not having directly 
 created them for you. Giving space to a player's imagination in this way is something that real 
 RPGs are about. Or were once, anyway.
  
  The game begins with a shipwreck, and the main plot that develops as a result is a whodunit.
 
  
  There are are also sidequests to be found in the starter town and in surrounding locations. Some 
 are interesting while others clearly are influenced by the dreaded kill-and-collect or "purchase 
 this item for me" adventure stylings brought to RPGs in recent years by MMOs.
  
  Completely new to SoZ is the Overland Map, which almost surely exists to replace the cinematics 
 and linking areas that would have otherwise had to serve as transitions. Moving from one point 
 of interest to another takes place in real but compressed time on a large, zoomed-out swath of 
 land, with one party member of your choosing appearing to run across it. Depending on that character's 
 skills, you will spot monsters (or avoid them) and uncover hidden objects and places. (Putting 
 a ranger or rogue on point will have major benefits.) The Overland Map which is, admittedly, designed 
 very well resembles something like Zelda for the NES having created a love child with Age of Empires.
 
  
  As well as the new map is fashioned, uncovering hidden locations is arguably disappointing because 
 the places you'll find don't lead to a full-fledged dungeon or structure, but to encounters that 
 take place in a small room or a small single-level cave. Each has its own theme and an apparently 
 thoughtful design -- they aren't just throwaway or pure filler -- but they are often single fight, 
 single loot and single purpose. Another problem this causes (besides giving one the distinct feeling 
 the game is content-thin) is that fights often begin the instant you spawn. If you are a NWN2 veteran, 
 it's not that bad, I guess; but it doesn't strike me as an example of particularly good design.
 
  
  Engaging monsters on the world map leads to a menu that will allow you to attempt to escape, to 
 fight, or even to parley with the enemy. When a fight is initiated, it opens a loading screen that 
 will (finally) reveal a pre-rendered area designated specifically for the encounter. Once the baddies 
 are dead, your party can then run unhindered to the zone transition at the other end of the area 
 and re-enter the world map. The loading screens are unnecessarily lengthy and intrusive for such 
 small areas and such short encounters.
  
  Discovering towns on the overland map can also lead to a special brand of disappointment, since 
 much of the time you cannot actually enter the towns proper. In this regard SoZ gives off an odd, 
 turn-based strategy game sort of odor. Upon clicking you are presented with a menu of what places 
 inside you can visit, and once you've chosen you will zone directly to the interior of the tavern 
 or temple or the "crafting station". Every tavern in nonessential towns (or whatever structure, 
 with the exception of the different NPCs) is the same. If how it all links with the overland map 
 weren't so beautifully done, it would be very easy to dismiss SoZ as incomplete.
  
  There's also a major Trading metagame in which you engage in what is essentially large-scale resource 
 management. The focus is to set up caravans to travel between cities; becoming a prosperous merchant 
 is integral to the main plot. Like the overland map, it too is very well-implemented in itself 
 but arguably seems out of place.
  
  While the new features are perhaps a matter of taste, what must be mentioned is just how nice some 
 of the writing is. It is often pitch-perfect NWN1 series and earlier. Dialogue in this mode is 
 not really dialogue: it is self-conscious, bright and snappy text mostly there for the reading. 
 While the sheer badness of the discourse in MotB may have made some players' hair hurt (like mine) , 
 SoZ is a refreshing, if piecemeal, return to the better bits of the original NWN series (and perhaps 
 Baldur's Gate games) , especially in terms of the sorts of pleasure that sometimes can be found 
 interacting with cleverly-written NPCs.
  
  The music in SoZ is surprisingly good.
  
  The AI is not, and is often frustrating, despite the inclusion of a well-known community modder's 
 code for companion behavior.
  
  How the engine renders large outdoor areas with lots of stuff going on is as god-awful as ever -- 
 perhaps somehow even worse. Shadows, lights, and water reflections when maxed out will cripple 
 the best of cards. One of the game's few large battles takes place in one of the few large outdoor 
 areas while it is raining. Describing my experience as having been a "slideshow" during this set-piece 
 is not hyperbole.
  
  The interior tilesets look absolutely fantastic -- very rich and baroque and deep with color, especially 
 when compared to the OC and the first expansion.
  
  NWN2 has never looked so good as it does in SoZ's interiors.
  
  Voice acting is an interesting 
 mix. Major characters are voiced acceptably well by who to my ear sound like semi-professionals. 
 Other characters are rendered with skill and appreciation of tone by amateurs (perhaps even people 
 in Obsidian's offices) . A few, however, are admittedly awful, with Kelgar Ironfist a standout in 
 this regard. The contrast between the quality of his voice acting in the OC and in SoZ is striking, 
 a likely testament to Atari's unfortunate financial difficulties.
  
  SoZ is not groundbreaking, and it is not a truly great game by any modern standard. It must be 
 admitted, however, that Obsidian succeeded at what they set out to do: allow the player to create 
 their own party whose skills as individuals matter to the role-playing; bring a new mechanic to 
 the engine in the form of a fully realized overland travel map; implement a trading metagame that 
 sets the stage for others of its kind; re-engage with an old-school RPG ethos with the stripping 
 away of cinematics and a too-controlling central narrative; shift focus to world NPCs whose dialogue 
 you spend more time reading than listening to.
  
  Storm of Zehir deserves recognition for opening a door through which we can pass to stroll the 
 ruins of classic RPGs (something that MotB did not do, in my opinion, despite its pretensions and 
 the nods of a small cabal of adoring fans) ; and moreover, for those little sparks of developer 
 inspiration sprinkled throughout it that offer hope they might not really be gone forever.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gibbersom
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 27, 2008 12:55 am PT
Review:  Pros:
  
  1. Stable, haven't encountered any major glitches so far
  2. Revamped interface, more polished graphics
  3. Good story, hooks you in from the start
  
 4. Sound and new spell effects are awesome
  5. Creating your own party is amazingly fun!
  6. Overland map, makes traveling much less tedious
  7. Skills are more balanced and important
 
  8. The new economic/trading system is fun
  9. The new resting/healing system is more realistic
  
  Cons:
  
  1. Character interaction 
 is lacking, NPCs are not as interesting
  2. Not sure about the new crafting recipe system
  3. Voice acting is not great.
  4. Content is very lacking, there's just not enough to do here.
 
  
  
  I initially gave this game a 9.0, but I have reduced it to a 7.5. Storm of Zehir was fun, but by 
 the time I had finished the game, the excitement of the new features had worn off and the lack 
 of content was obvious. The frequent and long load screens (which will happen with frequent encounters) 
 became increasingly annoying. The engine of the game has been flawed from the beginning and it 
 hasn't improved much here. The game frequently slows down on my 2.2Ghz Core2duo, 3GB ram, 8800GT 
 computer, and I am running it with most effects turned off (including shadows) . The storyline was 
 great to start off, but you soon come to the realization that if you strictly follow the main quest, 
 you will clock in at 8-10 hours (a generous estimate) . The voice acting is uneven at best and you 
 get the sense that this expansion didn't get the time and the money to really make it a great game. 
 Furthermore, creating your own party is fun at first, but quickly becomes stale. I would rather 
 have 6 or 7 NPCs to choose from to make my party as long as they had something to contribute to 
 the main plot and the atmosphere of the game. 
  
  One of the things I like about the developers at Obsidian is that they are willing to experiment 
 with each new release. In Mask of the Betrayer, it was the dark new storyline, the spirit meter, 
 the shadow realm and the well rounded NPCs (how cool is it to have a bear god in your party) . Some 
 things work better than others, but it is their willingness to take risks that has made the Neverwinter 
 Nights such a successful series.
  
  Storm of Zehir continues in that proud tradition with the ability to create each member of your 
 party, interesting villains (yaun-ti is not your run-of-the-mill evil snake cult) , decent storyline, 
 new trading/economic system, overland map, in addition to the expected new items, new monsters, 
 new side quests, new spells and new classes. Yet, none of the new features are fully realized. 
 Most towns consist of a common room at an inn and a temple room. I hope they keep the overland 
 map and the trading system in NWN 3. Obsidian has set the bar high for themselves and Storm of 
 Zehir is ultimately a mediocre addition to the series. Unfortunately, Storm of Zehir also inherits 
 problems from Neverwinter Nights 2 such as the long load screens (diminishes the well-implemented 
 overland map feature) and poor camera control. But since this is an expansion pack, I didn't expect 
 these problems fixed. 
  
  There is a lot to enjoy here, but the load screens, lack of content, and lack of character interaction 
 really hurts the overall enjoyment. Recommended, but don't expect too much. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
