-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Neverwinter Nights 2
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/neverwinternights2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Compelling story will keep you hooked for the entire 50-plus hours it takes to finish the single-player campaign.
 Full-featured toolset lets you easily create and share new modules.
 This is just about the most authentic representation of Dungeons & Dragons you'll find in any game.
 Excellent music and mostly well-done voice acting.
 The interactive dialogue and influence system make for dynamic and entertaining character interactions.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Frustrating camera requires constant attention.
 Steep system requirements for a game that doesn't look particularly good.
 The artificial intelligence doesn't always cooperate.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov  1, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.6
Critic Score: 8.2, 52 Review (s)
User Score: 8.4, 7,173 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Atari
Developer: Obsidian
Genre: Computer Role-Playing
Date:     Oct 31, 2006 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Neverwinter Nights 2 isn't without some technical issues, but the engaging, dynamic story and proven 
 D & D framework make it an RPG that shouldn't be missed. 

  To say that the expectations are high for Neverwinter Nights 2 would be a massive understatement. 
 Not only is it the sequel to one of the best role-playing games ever to bear the Dungeons &amp; 
 Dragons license, but it's also been developed by some of the creative talent behind such other 
 revered role-playing games as Baldur's Gate and Icewind Dale. The good news is that Neverwinter 
 Nights 2 lives up to its pedigree by delivering a captivating story full of exciting twists and 
 characters who you'll grow attached to out of fondness or, perhaps even better, complete loathing. 
 It's not without a few frustrating technical shortcomings, but overall Neverwinter Nights 2 is 
 a great role-playing adventure that just about anyone can enjoy.  

          Treasure box? Check. Shield? Check. Pointy ears? Check. Neverwinter Nights 2 has all the 
 trappings of a classic Dungeons &amp; Dragons adventure, but it doesnt come off the least bit 
 hokey or clich.     

  As great as the story is in Neverwinter Nights 2, it's difficult to convey without spoiling the 
 plot; but suffice it to say that it will keep your interest throughout the entire campaign -- which, 
 at around 50 hours long, is no small feat. You begin the game by creating a character. You can 
 choose a race, subrace, appearance, class, moral alignment, and even a voice for your hero. After 
 you create your character, you are taken on a journey that will see you rise from your beginnings 
 as a humble peasant to become one of the most respected and elite heroes of Neverwinter. It's a 
 long journey that involves the awakening of an arcane and unstable evil power that only a chosen 
 savior (guess who?) can banish. As clich as it sounds, the story reaches far beyond the usual 
 good-versus-evil plot. You'll get a heavy dose of political treachery; shattered, shifting, and 
 solidified alliances; ethereal mysticism; dark secrets; and much, much more. In addition to the 
 main story, the world is full of side stories that you can explore or ignore as you see fit. It 
 all adds up to make this feel like a real world with real history and very real inhabitants, but 
 beyond even that, the game does a great job of making you feel like an integral part of that world, 
 rather than some insular hero who comes out of nowhere to save the day and then disappears.  

 
  A large part of what makes the story so interesting is that you play an active role in the way 
 it unfolds. As you talk to all of the characters in the world, you're given several choices in 
 how to respond, and your responses often have a very apparent effect on the progression of the 
 story. When speaking to someone, you might be given the choice to lie, intimidate, or simply ask 
 questions to get the information or response you're looking for. The choices aren't black-and-white, 
 though, and you'll often come across some difficult moral dilemmas that make your part in the conversation 
 much more interesting. Your responses have both immediate and delayed effects. If you tell a goblin 
 chieftain that you're sick of hearing him talk and would rather paint the walls with his blood, 
 you can expect that you'll have an immediate fight on your hands. But sometimes the effects are 
 more subtle. If you are forced to make a decision and one of your party members tries to convince 
 you to take a certain course of action, you can comply or simply tell her to keep quiet. Either 
 way, your influence over that person will be affected. It isn't much of an issue at first, but 
 repeatedly going against an ally's wishes can eventually turn him or her against you. The interactive 
 dialogue is well written and so engaging that you'll probably want to save your game often, so 
 you can reload and repeat conversations just to see what will happen if you choose your words differently. 

  Even though you create a character who serves as the central hero for the tale, there's a great 
 and varied cast of supporting characters who will join you along the way. You can have up to three 
 supporting characters in your party, in addition to the occasional non-player or special character 
 who will tag along with you. With a quick click you can take direct control over any of your party 
 members at any time (as long as they're conscious) , which adds some welcome variety to the single-player 
 experience because you aren't pigeonholed into playing a single class for the entire game. By creating 
 a well-rounded party of casters, fighters, rogues, and rangers, you'll have access to a huge array 
 of skills and abilities.  

  For the most part you'll use those skills and abilities to combat all kinds of monsters, people, 
 spirits, and animals that always seem to get in your way. The combat takes place in real time, 
 but you have the option to pause the game and assign up to five successive actions to each of your 
 characters. Then it's just a matter of hitting the space bar to unpause the game and watching your 
 characters go to work. The most frequent battles don't usually require that level of management, 
 though, because you'll almost always come out on top by just rushing into a mob of enemies and 
 letting the artificial intelligence do the work. If you do happen to lose all your health you'll 
 be temporarily knocked out (despite the cobwebbed corpse icon that replaces your character portrait) . 
 As long as one of your characters survives the battle your party will revive, and then you can 
 use the rest function to fully replenish your health in just a few seconds.  

  Unfortunately, the AI in Neverwinter Nights 2 isn't always reliable. If you're in an open area 
 you can usually count on your companions to stick by you and back you up in a fight, but when you're 
 exploring the narrow hallways and labyrinthine corridors of the games' numerous, sprawling dungeons, 
 your characters will sometimes get lost or stuck, or will just freeze up for no apparent reason. 
 Needless to say, it's extremely frustrating when you're in the middle of a heated battle and your 
 supporting characters are just standing there watching you get trounced. At least if that happens 
 you can pause the game and assign actions to spur your lifeless cohorts to action, but when you 
 have to struggle just to get your characters to follow you, you'll find your patience wearing thin. 

          The artificial intelligence is usually passable, but it can be downright stupid sometimes. 
     

  Don't worry, though -- all that work fighting mob after mob of nefarious foes does pay off. Primarily 
 you'll be vanquishing evil for the sake of completing quests. There are a ton of quests in the 
 game, most of which you aren't actually required to complete in order to beat the game. The quest 
 design is interesting and usually fits well within the context of the story. There are some quests 
 that just require you to find or deliver a certain item, but the required quests are usually much 
 more involved than that. You'll be asked to do everything from saving damsels in distress to answering 
 riddles and even acting as a trial attorney. By completing quests you earn experience points, and 
 when you have enough experience points your characters will gain a level. By gaining levels you 
 develop basic skills like strength, dexterity, and intelligence, and you also learn new feats and 
 spells. You also gain experience points for defeating enemies, but the vast majority of your experience 
 comes from finishing quests, and all of your characters earn experience simultaneously, whether 
 they're actively in your party or not.  

  In addition to experience points, you'll collect copious amounts of treasure that you can use or 
 sell for gold. Since your weapons and armor greatly affect your stats and performance in battle, 
 you'll always be on the lookout for new and exotic treasures that will help you squeeze a little 
 bit more damage out of each blow you land on your enemies. There's also an item synthesis system 
 in Neverwinter Nights 2 that lets you collect ingredients and recipes and use them to create new, 
 useful items, as long as your character is at the required skill level to do so. Still, you'll 
 probably end up selling the vast majority of the loot you collect, rather than actually using it. 
     

  The joy of looting is slightly diminished by the unnecessarily cumbersome interface. There's no 
 way to sort your items by type, so you'll end up having to sift through four pages of cluttered, 
 often barely distinguishable icons representing all of your items. To examine your items you have 
 to right-click and select the option from a menu, which makes checking the stats on the new bastard 
 sword you just picked up a bit more of a hassle than it should be. Interface issues like these 
 have been addressed in numerous other role-playing games, so it feels a bit dated here.  

          With the right cast of characters in your party you'll be ready to face just about anything 
 as you stroll through one dungeon after the next.     

  Neverwinter Nights 2 bears the official Dungeons &amp; Dragons license, which is apparent right 
 from the beginning of the game when you start reading about things like saving throws, will saves, 
 modifiers, armor class, and die rolls. Everything from creatures and items to character classes 
 and abilities are all taken from version 3.5 of Dungeons &amp; Dragons. If you've never rolled 
 a 20-sided die in your life then you might be a bit confused by all the stats and jargon in this 
 game, but if you give it a bit of time you shouldn't have a problem getting a general idea of how 
 everything works. After all, the same principle of "bigger numbers are better" that works in just 
 about every role-playing game still applies here. If you're a D&amp; D veteran, though, you'll feel 
 right at home here, and you aren't likely to find a more accurate and faithful adaptation of the 
 Dungeons &amp; Dragons rule set in any other video game.  

  Like Dungeons &amp; Dragons, Neverwinter Nights 2 emphasizes multiplayer interaction and creative 
 development. You can play the game online or on a local network with up to three other players. 
 The single-player campaign is available to play cooperatively, although you'll need to start from 
 the beginning because you can't add new players into an existing single-player game. You can set 
 options such as a level cap, item restrictions, and whether or not to allow players to damage each 
 other. The in-game server browser makes it easy to find or set up a game, and although you need 
 a BioWare Community account to log in, it's free and easy to set up, and it just requires an e-mail 
 address. We did notice some slight lag when playing multiplayer on a local network, but not enough 
 to cause any real problems.  

  If you've had enough of the main story campaign, you can create your own and share them online. 
 Included with Neverwinter Nights 2 is an editor program so robust that it's seemingly limited only 
 by your own imagination. It will take a good deal of time and effort to start building your dream 
 campaign, but the possibilities are there if you're determined and moderately savvy with similar 
 software. Given the large and active community of module creators for the original Neverwinter 
 Nights game, the opportunity is there for the sequel to be just as interminable as its predecessor. 

  Most of the shortcomings of Neverwinter Nights 2 are technical in nature. First off, the game has 
 some fairly steep system requirements, but that horsepower won't get you much. Even on a system 
 that exceeds the recommended specs, with all of the options maxed out, there are some rough spots 
 that make this game look dated. In some of the dialogue sequences the view switches to a zoomed-in, 
 letterbox perspective. It's a nice effect that makes the cutscenes a bit more dramatic than small 
 text windows, but getting in that close also reveals some blurry, low-resolution textures, jerky 
 character animations, and frequent clipping. The game doesn't look bad by any means, and some of 
 the level designs are genuinely interesting and fun to explore, but at the same time it's reasonable 
 to expect the game to be a bit more pleasing on the eyes given its system requirements. When a 
 character's beard is clipping right through his chest, or when he floats across the floor without 
 moving his legs, the game just looks a little sloppy. That said, some of the spell effects are 
 pretty spectacular, and when you're in a large battle with several casters it's like watching a 
 pyrotechnics show.  

  The most frustrating part of the presentation in Neverwinter Nights 2 is the camera. There are 
 four different camera modes to choose from, but they all require almost constant adjustment to 
 see what's going on. The camera will get stuck on a building or object or will just start tweaking 
 out for no reason, which is incredibly annoying. The best option is to zoom the camera all the 
 way out for a bird's-eye view. Even then you'll feel like you've found a barely workable solution 
 rather than an ideal viewing angle. You'll eventually come to terms with the camera, but it's unnecessarily 
 awkward.  

          You have to be mindful of your companions' feelings, otherwise they might turn on you. 
     

  This game sounds much better than it looks. There's a ton of voiced dialogue in the game, and although 
 some of the voices are annoying, all of the main characters sound great, and their respective voices 
 lend each one a lot of personality. From the sinister-sounding evil wizard to the feisty young 
 demon girl, the voices all sound appropriate and fitting. The music is excellent, with dramatic 
 orchestrated tracks that sound as if they could be taken right from a big-budget Hollywood film. 
 The music does a great job of setting an appropriately grandiose and bombastic backdrop for your 
 adventure, without being overwhelming.  

  If you're willing to look past a few relatively minor technical issues, you'll have a great time 
 exploring the world of Neverwinter Nights 2. The excellent story, characters, and quests will appeal 
 to your sense of adventure without getting overly convoluted. The many paths you can take through 
 the lengthy single-player campaign are enough to make this game worth your money, but when you 
 factor in the multiplayer and the editing tools you'll find that Neverwinter Nights 2 is a fantastic 
 value and a thoroughly enjoyable game.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (461 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: shindark
Rating: 3
Date: Apr 11, 2009 2:57 am PT
Review:  Beware, this is not a detailed review, but more a complaint against a game unmeritedly overrated 
 from critics and audience.
  I like D&D and love RPG. I've played Baldur's Gate 2 uncountable times and is surely the better 
 example of D&D applied to computer RPG.
  Neverwinter Night 2?
  Surely is a fair game, D&D's rules implementations is pretty good, characters and plot are fun.
 
  So, where is the matter? Why i rated only 3?
  There are a lot of bugs that literally destroy the game experience making the game difficult and 
 irritating to play (if not impossible) .
  Really, i've never felt to waste money in a videogame like this one. After the installation i've 
 lost one hour to update the game to the final version sure of can play smoothly after the numerous 
 patches applied. On the contrary I've found an incredible number of issues.
  The major issues concern the characters movements in city and dungeons. Often they remain stucked 
 against wall or obstacles, but is in the battles that situation become hilarious.
  Characters deliberately ignore your orders and, if AI is activated, tends to play alone or to stay 
 freezed while enemies massacre them. To make them move as you wish you'll be forced to select them 
 more times and repeat the orders until they finally move.
  Since battles are a main part of the game soon this issues will become extremely irritating.
 
  Others problems?
  Graphics is not fluid even on strong computers. Cutscene event often don't trigger themselves forcing 
 the player to reload a precedent save or remain permanently stucked.
  You can solve some situations using some skills like Intimidation or Diplomacy, but differently 
 from Baldur's Gate you got no experience at all. So if you want to improve your characters you'll 
 be forced to fight.
  Wanna steal something?
  Png's pockets are always empty, not a single coins. Moreover you can attempt to steal everyone 
 and everywhere. Even if spotted from someone you'll will not face any consequences.
  In the end Neverwinter Night's 2 is a dull and overrated game.
  Atari only showed how little 
 she cares of customers, or the incompetence of her programmers if they are unable to fix a game 
 after dozens of patches.
  
  Want a D&D master work RPG for PC?
  Play Baldur's Gate 2.
  
  Neverwinter Night's 2 could be the best adaptations of ever of D&D on a videogame, but at least 
 the bugs that plague him force player to face every battle simply selecting all members of the 
 team and sending it to brawl forgetting every possible strategy.
  
  Busted, Broken and Buggy!!!
  
  Peace!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Guitarfreak15
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 6, 2009 12:40 pm PT
Review:  I'm not much of a DnD fan and all that so I'm not going to review this game based on then the relativity 
 of that game. First of all, I do agree with some of the negative reviews in the aspect of cheesy 
 dialog. The voice actors could use some work but that's not all that important. The visual effects 
 are really good but the meshes and textures cause to much lag even with higher performance computers. 
 They really could have made the visual effects the same (even better) and used much less processing. 
 I was a bit annoyed with the whole traveling system for the fact there wasn't much of a traveling 
 system at all. To make it simple, you have a overhead map of the land and you click what region 
 you want to go to then it teleports you there. Not much of a game for exploring the path from point 
 A to point B. The stories seem somewhat linear but open ended none-the-less. Meaning the story 
 line is the same no matter how many times you play it through but there are many different options 
 you can take to get through the story. For example, you can choose to have a companion join you 
 when you meet them or not. And your good/evil karma will determine different outcome of dialog 
 choice and what not. So basically the game is very in depth. There is tons and tons to do and see 
 and the gameplay is just fun. You can customize EVERY aspect of your character and, for the most 
 part, your companions as well. I really can't stress how much fun the gameplay really is. It really 
 is one of those games you can only play once or twice through but there are many mods and expansions 
 that can keep you entertained for hours on end. Looking back on the bad though, the AI isn't very... 
 well Intelligent. countless times I'd have to cycle through my companions and get threm through 
 the dungeon because, for some reason, they just wouldn't follow me even after having the follow 
 command set. And countless times they'd run half across a dungeon to kill a monster and attract 
 10-12 other monsters thus killion my party. You can turn 'ragdoll' mode on which makes it so they 
 don't do that. But then they don't attack at all until you activate them and tell them to attack. 
 There's not really a defensive mode, or at least I haven't found one, which offers a median for 
 that problem.
  
  So all in all, the game isn't very well built, but it's still very engrossing and lots of fun to 
 play. It's hard to judge this game negatively even though there are lots of flaws. The adventure 
 is worth the low cost of the game that it's going for now. I found a copy of Gold for like $14 
 on ebay. Not bad at all. So if you're a big RPG fan, definitely give it a go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RobertsTheVile
Rating: 3
Date: Mar 31, 2009 8:11 pm PT
Review:  And that's just a chip of the iceberg.
  
  Though it may sound harsh, I am in agreement with a lot of people who gave this game a similarly 
 low score. It falls woefully below even the most mediocre of game standards.
  
  In specific:
  
   Difficult camera implementation: The default camera settings work counterintuitively 
 to every game that falls within the same general category. This is further compounded by having 
 to switch between three different "view modes" where one is more than plenty.
  
   Bad AI: In dungeons characters in your party often get lost, freeze in place, refuse to help 
 when under attack, and sometimes fail to follow the leading character altogether. There have been 
 patches and even a couple of expansions, but none of this was ever addressed or fixed for some 
 reason. It's ridiculous that players are expected to actually use the pause function in the middle 
 of battle just to work around it when the developers can just as easily fix it.
  
   Substandard graphics with higher-end video card demands: No efficient method of streamlining 
 the games graphical engine or reducing needless elements of rendering were ever employed. 
  
  Bad models and textures. (Even with anti-aliasing and using other video setting features designed 
 to improve them)
  
  Let's use a game like World of Warcraft for example. It' has extraordinarily low system requirements 
 but is graphically lush and complete, featuring many fine customization settings for video. So 
 there is absolutely NO reason why a game that has higher hardware demands than WoW look much, much 
 worse than it does.
  
   Needlessly verbose and corny dialogue coupled with painfully bad and often pretentious voice 
 acting (minor gripe) : The voice actors in this game are god-awful and usually abrasive to even 
 listen to. 
  
  None of the VA matches the emotional context of the fundamental script and is incredibly obtuse 
 when characters speak with one another in cut-scenes. 
  
  I found myself muting the sound every time a githyanki or lizardman even opened his mouth. These 
 monster voices in particular come across as VERY cheesy and remind me a great deal of how black 
 metal singers and pro wrestlers sound. (i. e. childishly goofy.)
  
  Overall:
  
  Eventhough 3.5 D&D is no longer around and that Forgotten Realms is a very rich and immersive world, 
 this game does the franchise no favors. 
  
  If you genuinely enjoy D&D, RPGs, and even just good games in general, do yourself a huge favor 
 and skip this one. It's nothing but crap, through-and-through.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GattsTaichou
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 16, 2009 6:10 am PT
Review:  I know a whole bunch of people already wrote their reviews on this must-play-for-RPG-fans game, 
 so I am just going to throw my little thoughts to the pile.
  
  I am inclined to say that the first similar game of this genre was Baldur's Gate for D&D fans  
 at that time using the 2nd Edition rule-set. That was a great game, worth replaying a dozen of 
 times. The game included a very much desired character creation and customisation system, and a 
 lot of clever and fun tricks that the D&D fans were just dying to see [and by this I do not mean 
 the Koveras  Sarevok twist in the story :) ]
  
  Anyway it was a great start. Soon a few others followed this trail cobbled with the success of 
 BG, like Neverwinter Nights, and finally Neverwinter Nights 2 in 2006  the last one using the 
 D&D 3rd Edition Rule-set already.
  
  To tell the truth, I have played the demo and NWN 1, but only got the full Neverwinter Nights 2 
 game when I bought my new videocard at the beginning of last year  it was included in the card's 
 bundle. Since then I have completed the game almost 4 times, and played the extensions too  Mask 
 of the Betrayer and Storm of Zehir [the last one being a disgrace to the name of the Neverwinter 
 series... but that's another story...]
  
  The story is great  interesting and filled with intrigue, battle, epic moments and woe  like 
 a fairly strong novel should be.
  
  The gameplay is not just battle. There is also a great influence system integrated which governs 
 how your NPCs feel about you, and also determines how the story progresses and what will be the 
 outcome. Also, there is a kind of strategic element built-in for those who enjoy building castles, 
 fortifying  building a great keep from scratch in other words to be an obstacle for enemy forces.
 
  
  The NPC design is great  the characters are alive through the whole story, and their goals, feelings 
 and personality makes the story very much believable.
  
  The graphics are ok  I might say great even with today's technology. The details, the textures, 
 the lighting is easily comparable to Drakensang [at least the way I remember :) ] .
  The sounds are ok and the voice acting is quite good for most of the monsters and NPCs in the game. 
 I even liked the music, especially in the main menu :)
  
  A few patches ago, and before I installed the Mask of the Betrayer, the game did not run quite 
 good on my PC, but now they tackled this issue as it seems  which was very annoying, given that 
 the game was already 1,5 years old when I first did a deep dive into it.
  
  What more could I say  not much. I am sure if you are interested in RPGs even a little bit, or 
 if you are/were playing D&D pen-'n-paper RPG  chances are, you already know this game maybe even 
 better than I do. If you do not: It is high time you did. The game is a lasting experience. It 
 will not disappoint you.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: seba_blacknight
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 10, 2009 4:50 pm PT
Review:  OK.... NWN 2. After the great NWN 1, this new version is quite fine. The graphics are cool, good 
 textures, and light & shadows effects. The armors are not the best, they aren't that attractive 
 to the eye. Another thing that I don't like are the movements. For example when an attack is made 
 by the cleave feature, the character does not move, but it hits the enemy the same! Besides all 
 that, is a good and entertaining game. Good graphics, nice storyline. 
  
  The fact that you can change the characters' storyline is a good feature. For example you meet 
 a dwarf named Kelghar, who wants to travel to the city of Neverwinter to become a monk. He is a 
 fight lover, and some monks have just beaten him on a fight with no effort. You have to deal with 
 3 trials so he can become a monk.
  
  The NPC are cool, they have they opinions, that makes the game a lot more interesting to play. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ag_04
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 9, 2009 5:15 am PT
Review:  So Neverwinter Nights was a great game when released and since then it has a solid fanbase, with 
 a really good single player campaign, customized campaigns, multiplayer, etc. 
  
  I will review this game based on my playthrough in the main campaign so please don't be mad at 
 me. I know I have not experienced multiplayer, but anyway...
  
  There was a great hype with NWN2, obviously. And that is why a lot of people felt a little disappointed 
 with it, because it has failed trying to surpass NWN1. 
  
  Anyhow it is still a great game, with great virtues like:
  
  - A strong and well made single 
 player campaign: The story is surprisingly good, and the fact you gain (or lose) reputation with 
 your companions is great, as it has consequences in the game, and in the dialogue options with 
 certain character.
  
  - Characters: Again, it is nice that the cast in really high. There are a lot of characters that 
 will join your party from different classes, which is great as it lets you customize your party.
 
  
  - 3.5 rules: It follows them (more or less) which is great. If you like'em that is.
  
  - Soundtrack: OMG the music is great. I loved it. Definitely the best thing of the game and I applaud 
 the composer's work.
  
  The flaws I see that are disappointing:
  
  - Bugged as hell: This is one of the games with more bugs I have played in my life. Even with actualizations, 
 the game is still bugged, and solutions they make to fix them bring more bugs in the game. Again, 
 it is frustrating.
  
  - Graphics: With a high end computer the game will run smooth and fast with high textures, etc. 
 With anything else, forget about it. It is curious that the graphics aren't even that good, so 
 this is a programming issue. Indoor graphics aren't better than NWN1, so that is like WTF? Outdoor 
 is better due to light effects and other stuff but really, I think WoW graphics are better and 
 WoW plays smooth in a large range of computers.
  
  - Lame animations and no death effects: So you put your disintegrate spell in your quickbar and 
 prepare it. You cast disintegrate on a wounded enemy and kill it. Nope, it doesn't disintegrate, 
 the body is intact. WTF is this s**t??
  
  Ok, overall it is a good game. Don't expect anything great though. The bugs will make your head 
 hurt. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fubbal
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 23, 2009 10:12 pm PT
Review:  Okay I had to re write this review because I was so happy about my new computer that I gave it 
 a better score and review than what it deserves. Its not a bad game but could have ben so much more.
 
  
  First of all the graphics are good, way better than the first. Still for those steep requirments 
 you really do expect more out it. The sound is wonderful with the mid evil tunes you'd expect to 
 hear. The game controls really well and the interface is a little better than the first. The only 
 real problem I had with any of this stuff was the camera, man come on guys you can do better than 
 that. I mean you feel at times you are breaking your neck to get a view of the action.
  
  Ok now on to game play. This is a cool game and the story or single player mode is really cool and 
 with the expansions you will get some massive hours in and some great replay value. However this 
 game is more for hard core D and D players. It uses the D and D 3.5 rule set, and if you want to 
 know whats going on then you had better learn the basics at least. The 3.5 rule set is cool and 
 allows you to customize your guy to what ever you want him to be. Save often though as you will 
 find your self fighting hordes of enemies at a time and dying often which can get really old. Another 
 thing that can get really old is your party members AI. You just won a huge battle only to have 
 one of them agro another horde over too you and then your smashed. Moments like this really put 
 a huge damper on the fun factor. The game is also filled with lots of glitches so save often and 
 have patience and you will find a fun game. If you have no patience for stuff like this then move 
 on and find another game.
  
  The multiplayer is also cool as is the adventure editer, how ever these are also not with out problems. I 
 had fun with one buddy only to run into a huge wall with another. Then we went to tech support and 
 they helped about as much as a sword to the chest. Open these ports then those ports do this and 
 that bla bla bla. We finally got sick of it and gave up. Which really made me mad. We could play any 
 other game we tried together just not this one and it should not take a computer programming degree 
 to play with a buddy online.
  
  The world editor is cool as I said but takes a lot of time to learn and that might turn off all 
 but the most hard core. Once you start to learn it its fun making your own stuff. THe only reason 
 I learned it though is by buying a guide to help me. Other wise I don't think I would have stuck 
 with it.
  
  You get a good package with this game with or without the expansions but be for warned Massive 
 patience is a must for this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jimmi323
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 25, 2009 3:06 pm PT
Review:  Despite some serious technical problems such as bugs, graphical glitches and a horribly optimized 
 graphical engine, NWN2 is a worthy successor to the original. 
  
  The storyline is much better than the original which could be a serious drag at times. That's not 
 to say that this is perfect as it is quite slow to get going, but it is a big improvement. All 
 the depth of the Forgotten Realms is still here, as well as the great dev tools and the amazing 
 community. The graphics are good, with great spell effects, but some disappointing character models 
 and textures. The sound is good with a great soundtrack, but you will definitely hear character 
 sounds and spell incantations repeated ad nauseum which can really grind on your nerves. Some of 
 the voice actors really got on my nerves as well, although they were quite good for the most part.
 
  
  One of my favourite improvements in the game is the overworld traveling system. It is nice to not 
 have to walk for extended periods of time through empty environments, and I found it did very little 
 to disrupt the game.
  
  All in all, a very solid RPG and a worthy sequel. Here's to a third. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarthVillainous
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 13, 2009 1:29 am PT
Review:  Neverwinter Nights 2 (NWN2) is a sequel that is better than the first. While it isn't without its 
 problems, overall it's a fantastic RPG, one that anyone who likes RPGs should play.
  
  PROS
  
  I said at the beginning that NWN2 is better than the first game. For anyone who's actually 
 played the first game and gone through the "story" ("Our city's being hit by a plague! We aren't 
 gonna put out a call for doctors, or priests since we think there's a supernatural cause to this 
 ... no, we're gonna put out a call for ... CHAMPIONS! We're gonna beat this plague to death - take 
 that, you germs!") , that might not seem such an accomplishment; after all, just about any decently-done 
 RPG would have been better than the first NWN. However, NWN2 is infinitely better than the first 
 game because it manages to do what its predecessor didn't: have an outstanding story.
  
  Going hand in hand with the story is some terrific voice acting. There isn't a weak performance 
 among them. Along with this are some great characters (including Khelgar, possibly my favourite 
 dwarf in anything since Gimli in LOTR) , who really bring the story to life.
  
  In terms of gameplay, NWN2 also has some good things going for it. For one thing, it's a long game. 
 I've played through it twice, and though I haven't exactly clocked how long it took, I'd guess 
 it's somewhere in the ballpark of 50 hours or more per playthrough. What this means is that you 
 easily get your money's worth. Of course, length isn't the only thing that there's lots of. There 
 are also lots of classes to pick from. While not all of them are all that great, there are so many 
 that it's easy to find one that fits your style.
  
  The best thing about the gameplay is, however, the influence system. Obsidian brought this over 
 from their previous game, Knights of the Old Republic II, which was a very smart thing to do so. 
 Basically, anytime you make a decision, or even make a comment, you can gain or lose influence 
 with your companions depending on their personalities, and if they agree or disagree with you. 
 How much influence you have over your companions directly affects the story, as they can betray 
 you if you have low influence over them, or stick with you through extreme difficulties if they 
 like you a lot. It's a great mechanic, and makes the characters that much more believable in that 
 they don't blindly follow you.
  
  CONS
  
  While the story and everything that goes with it are NWN2's greatest strengths, this isn't to say 
 those aspects of the game are perfect. While most of the characters are great, there are a few 
 that are flat, uninteresting, or downright unlikeable (here's looking at you, Bishop and Grobnar) . 
 Also, once you've gone through the initial dialogue paths which each of your characters, there's 
 relatively little other direct interaction you can have with them. If you try to talk to them again, 
 they only rarely will make new comments about anything that's transpired (unless it's a preset 
 part of the game where they're meant to, or it's a cutscene, etc.) . Most of the time, they just 
 have the same dialogue paths available.
  
  The other big problem with the story is the ending. To be blunt, it's completely unsatisfying. 
 It doesn't reveal the fates of you or any of your companions (only of some minor characters who 
 don't travel with you) , and is clearly designed towards having an expansion pack (and of course, 
 two expansion packs have come out since the game was released) .
  
  Most of the problems with NWN2 don't have to do with the story or characters; rather, they are 
 related to gameplay (and in many cases are holdovers from the first game) . For one thing, the spell 
 system is incredibly convoluted and confusing - so much so that a casual player, or anyone who 
 simply doesn't have the patience to figure out all the arcane rules of how it works (no pun intended) 
 will avoid anything to do with playing as a mage, wizard, etc. It doesn't make one want to have 
 anything to do with it, it's so confusing.
  
  Another problem is that the level system is capped at 20. I understand that this game is based 
 on D&D rules, but that's just a lame excuse to cap the level system - especially when it's such 
 an easily reachable level. My own view of this is that if games are going to have level caps (which 
 I don't think they should) , then they should be insanely high. 20 is really nothing. There's a 
 certain pleasure one gets of fighting a difficult monster at level 2 and barely scraping by (or 
 having to flee) , and coming back later on and beating the tar out of it. Unfortunately, due to 
 the level cap, you don't get that pleasure in NWN2.
  
  However, the level system isn't the biggest problem with the gameplay. That (dis) honor goes to 
 the combat system. Basically, you just point and click at who you want to attack, and then watch 
 it happen, as the computer rolls dice in the background. That's it. It's incredibly lame. Again, 
 I know this game is based on a D&D universe, but that doesn't mean that you have to copy over the 
 absolutely lame and pathetic combat system.
  
  The other big problems with the game are technical. For one thing, it has high system requirements 
 for something that doesn't look all that great. That's not to say the graphics are bad; just that 
 you'd expect better considering how steep the requirements are. The other thing is that, if you 
 don't patch the game (which can be a time-consuming process, due to the patching program - instead 
 of instantly jumping you from version 1.0 to whatever the newest one is, it will go from version 
 to version - from 1.0 to 1.01, to 1.02, to 1.03, etc.) , there are lots of bugs.
  
  The final thing I have to say is that, while I like fantasy games, I don't like them when they 
 get occultic. NWN2 is, at times, too occultic for my tastes. For anyone who dislikes this sort 
 of thing, it's definitely a con. I've seen far worse in other games than what's in NWN2; but none 
 would be better than some.
  
  CONCLUSION
  
  While it has many problems and is far from perfect, anyone who likes RPGs and has a decent PC should 
 play NWN2. The story is excellent, and easily manages to overcome the game's problems. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nemo_85
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 27, 2008 11:17 am PT
Review:  The Good:
  -A great plot
  -Impressive and effective use of D&D game play
  -Good visuals
  -A great music soundtrack
  -Can offer a considerable challenge
  -Brings new 
 features to an old game style
  
  The Bad:
  -Some game play and technical issues
  -Dialog and cut scenes seem a little dry
  -Companion system can be annoying
  
  
  Overall, 
 NWN2 is a great game and one certainly worth playing if you like role playing games or are a fan 
 of the first one. The original campaign is just about right in length and, true to the NWN series, 
 offers a great plot that pulls you in. 
  
  In terms of game play and combat, the game functions in much the same manner as its previous, using 
 the D&D 3.5 rule set with difficulty settings that match that of NWN. This is nice for those familiar 
 with this style of game play as it makes jumping in and playing the game a breeze. Those unfamiliar 
 with it might find themselves consulting the detailed player handbook that comes with the game 
 to gain an understanding of how things operate. 
  
  Right off the bat, a fan of NWN notices that there are many new features in NWN2 that are not in 
 the previous version. Mostly this is confined to a very large increase in the variety of classes, 
 new feats and new spells. However, there are also some new game play elements as well. 
  
  The game is scaled perhaps slightly differently than the original in terms of difficulty. Whereas 
 in the original a player could easily play through the entire campaign by themselves, NWN2 scales 
 combat so that companions are extremely valuable in difficult combat situations. 
  
  The companion system, though, is a bit annoying. Many times you find that certain companions MUST 
 be with you to advance the plot and interacting with them can sometimes be tedious. The dialog 
 options for talking to them never change and progress through those options is determined by an 
 influence system. Thus, players often have to cycle through dialog they have memorized just to 
 see if they can get a little further based on their increase in influence. It gets tiresome quickly 
 and encourages players to ignore their companions. 
  
  The game also suffers from some technical issues. The worst is a save game bug that results in 
 save games being corrupted. It seems fairly common and the only way to prevent it is to save often 
 and in different slots, good advice for any gamer. Nevertheless, it is annoying to have to retrace 
 your steps. 
  
  Game play issues are also present. The top of them is probably some issues with quests that come 
 in conflict with one another, resulting in a completed quest not being marked completed in your 
 journal. This happens most often when you change the way you wish to accomplish a quest, which 
 the game does not seem to recognize. For example, allying with one bad guy to get information out 
 of him at the expense of killing his rival, but then deciding to aid his rival instead. This type 
 of thing confuses the game on several occasions. 
  
  The dialog and cut scenes are nice in terms of plot advancement but seem dry in terms of scale 
 and dialog. They are somewhat bland with voice acting (with a few exceptions) and the camera is 
 predictably stationary. 
  
  Surprisingly one of the things that I really enjoyed was the music soundtrack. Not only is it original, 
 but it is of a quality rarely found in games and fits the given situations perfectly. It really 
 helps to set the mood and increase the player immersion. 
  
  The game runs very well provided you have a high end machine and all the updates for the game. 
 Many bugs have been fixed with the updates (including some massive improvements to the camera system) 
 so playing without them is not fair to the game. Moreover, the graphics are actually quite good 
 on high end machines. Not the best, but good. 
  
  Overall, NWN2 is worth playing if you like role playing games. Just remember to save often and 
 in different slots. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: y_roland
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 12, 2008 12:47 pm PT
Review:  I'll start by saying that I havent played the original neverwinter nights so this review will not 
 compare NW2 to the original one, i'll simply compare it to other RPGs and highlight it's greatest 
 virtues and few faults.
  
  
  Let's start by whats wrong, basically there's two main flaws, the first is the ridiculous config 
 you need to be able to play it at max settings. And even when you have a comp that can run full 
 settings it's not really that impressive the comp i now use has 6 months at most and STILL has 
 slowdowns in certain cases.
  The second main flaw is the AI, both that your enemies and those of your allies, they're just utterly 
 brain-dead, there is absolutely no other way to put it, your spellcasters if you dont stop them 
 will spend their entire arsenal of spells in a flash no matter what behaviour you give them. Thus 
 the only way to get anything done is to handle the spellcasters individually, as i like giving 
 individual orders to all my characters i dont mind, but when you have to do it at nearly every 
 fight it doees get tedious.
  There's another flaw i saw though this one is more personnal and doesnt really affect the gaming 
 experience as I see it, the crafting system is far too complex and unintuitive. After my first 
 play through the game i didnt even bother with it, sold all recipes and all crafting materials 
 and did well anyhow.
  
  
  The good aspects now, and fortunately there's more of those. The first is the smooth way the D&D 
 3.5 edition rules are implemented; if you're a D&D fan you'll grasp all the mechanics quickly and 
 you'll have no problem choosing character orientation, skills, feats, spells and so on, thus diving 
 right into the action. If you've never been acquainted with D&D rules you're in for a rougher start, 
 as at firts you won't understand ANYTHING luckily there's plentu of websites that can get you started 
 on the basics of D&D. When I first started playing this game I had no idea of what a d20 was so 
 frankly I didnt like the game at first, but as i kept pushing on it became clear enough for me 
 to start really enjoying it.
  The second is a consequence of the first, you can play any kind of character you damn well please, 
 from an all-out melee fighter to a frail but deadly mage. There's a huge amount of races and sub-races, 
 each with his or her own abilities and disadvantages (like say the Shield Dwarves which have increased 
 Constitution but decreased Charisma) , over a dozen different classes and at least as many prestige 
 classes (which you can only choose if your main character fullfills certain conditions) . Character 
 creation is at first overwhelwing due to the amount of choices you have to make you can spend nearly 
 half an hour if you really take the time trying to see whats the best character you can make and 
 fully customising the physical appearance. During gameplay you'll come up with even more options 
 to customize your character such as feats, spells, skills or additional stats. The downside of 
 this is you're likely to make some characters that aren't as useful as they should be, but you'll 
 quickly learn how to ensure that doesn't happen. Furthermore you can play as a righteous hero, 
 who goes out of his way to help people and uphold the law, a sadistic scumbag who goes out of his 
 way to mug, kill and rob people or a more neutral character, that acts with a moral relativity. 
 This alignement choice changes some of the options for character development as being good can 
 for instance forbid the character from getting warlock levels.
  Another great point in the game is the storyline which i found to be among the best in all the 
 video games i've played. And although i've heard people complaining about the ending i really dont 
 get the reason for it, I certainly enjoyed it.
  However durring the course of the game you dont only get to play a single main character, although 
 this main character will be present throughout the whole game, you get an impressive amount of 
 characters that join your team, each with his own personnality, such as my personal favourite a 
 dwarf who wants to become a monk (who wouldn't want to have that guy) . The options for customisation 
 of these additional characters are , it's true, far more limited than the ones given to your main 
 character, but it's still when you take it as a whole pretty staggering what you can change between 
 games. The personnality of your allies is essential, indeed if you act in a way they consider right 
 you'll gain influence, by saying what they want you'll gain influence; on the other hand acting 
 in a way they disapprove will make you loose influence, if you have a high enough influence certain 
 characters will intervene mostly in dialogues with NPCs in your favour. I dont want to spoil the 
 ending so all i'll say is that you have better treated your allies well because it WILL matter.
 
  Finally what i love in this game is that it has given me some of the most awesome and difficult 
 fights in any RPG yet, some the optional fights in the game will force you to plan very carefully 
 because they're bloody tough, chief among these is the fight atop a mountain against a red dragons 
 and a trive of angry giants.
  
  As a last note i'll say that this game isnt perfect but for an RPG it's pretty damn close.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: baileybaileys
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 2, 2008 11:31 am PT
Review:  The Good: Excellent plot with immense length and diverse settings. The various features such as 
 the trial, face off with Lorne, Keep building, and branched watch/shadow thieves (just to name 
 a few) all provided diversity to the game. I really couldn't put this game down for literally months 
 at a time. The characters are interesting. I personally enjoyed almost all of the characters except 
 the stalker elf and Casavir.
  
  The Bad: Too easy. Also, I felt the work at the Keep could've played a bigger role in the game. 
 Obsidian and all game developers ... please come up with better names than "King of Shadows"... gag 
 me. Also, the stalker was terrible. The romances were forced and hardly personal.
  
  Conclusion: Buy this game and avoid the romances. This is a great game and will give you several 
 trips through the game without getting old. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stevedawgdx69
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 21, 2008 1:25 am PT
Review:  What is the deal with the crapiness of the default controls. I really dislike the generic equipment 
 interface. Also the quick spell system just sucks. Its like the stole the standard hotbar from 
 a crappy mmo or something. Also, it played too much like Kotor II. I really miss Black Isle, and 
 find this game relatively uninspired. But it is still better than half of the recent Computer RPG's 
 I've played. 
  
  Okay, that was the blast, now the build up. The graphics and intercharacter interaction was excellent. 
 Also, the use of voice acting was very good, though some of the voice actors sounded the same as 
 the ones from the kotor series. Why still no character voice dialogue. I understand the choices, 
 but would really like the character to speak them instead of just selecting them. Also, I don't 
 feel the relationship building was good enough, it was almost like a poorly designed ero sim. 
 
  
  Anyways, I loved the storyline, but would prefer a story web and a more open ended exploration 
 based game. Also, a more manageable quest list would help. Granted I only have the stock game, 
 expansions have been released since I have purchased it. The designers also patch the game from 
 time to time. Notice I rated it 8.5, I intended to give it props but don't really remember why. 
 Nostalgia? Nevermind, it is a decent game and could use some work. But at least it isn't Star Wars 
 Galaxies. Steven 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Beanoball
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 10, 2008 9:15 am PT
Review:  I loved the first Neverwinter Nights, I love DnD, so I assumed this game was a safe buy. I have 
 been into the DnD style of PC games since the original Pool of Radiance. Played the game for about 
 15 hours or so and enjoyed it while it worked. 
  
  The problem was that I spent nearly as much time time trying to find fixes to the game as I did 
 actually playing it. This is one of only two games out of the hundreds of PC game I have played 
 that I could no longer play because of all the crashes and bugs. When the game was patched it fixed 
 some of the bugs and crashes but then I could not see my skills screen during level up and had 
 to do auto pick my skills.
  
  I am sure this game is great for some people and maybe will be for me one day if I can get it to 
 start working smoothly. I don't know if it is because that I have vista or what, but I just do 
 not feel like putting more time into making it work. At this point in time though the game has 
 been more work than play, which kind of defeats the purpose for me. Maybe I'll get Storm of Zehir 
 when it comes out and see if that works. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ArdentV
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 2, 2008 8:39 pm PT
Review:  Good addition to the series but is lacking a bit even after multiple patches. Would have been great 
 to see some higher quality art esp since the hardware requirments are so high! "It is recomended 
 to have at least 15GB of free space after install"! Is this for saved games or does the game have 
 a party when you are not around?!?! Art work of PC and NPCs is pretty poor compared to Guild Wars. 
 On the plus side there a quite a few interesting NPC to meet along the way. Story and gameplay 
 is pretty good, though the camera always needs attention. Loot system is quite generous, a few 
 tough dission on what equipment to use along the way! Magic system is as expected, one of the better 
 aspect of the visuals are the magic effects. High level spells are worth the wait and mages feel 
 powerful at 12+. Pathfinding can be problematical. Really enjoyed playing NWN2 its a pitty it was 
 not in producation for another month before realise to fix these issues. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Panos83
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 19, 2008 7:22 pm PT
Review:  THE GOOD:
  - Well designed graphics. As simple as that.
  - Great characters and storyline. Nice add on to gain or lose influence and respect to your companions 
 depending on your support/actions towards them.
  - Great idea to own and build a castle and to become, as the game progresses a knight captain from 
 a farmer.
  - Maybe the most amazing, epic and hard side quest I've found to a RPG game so far. I'm talking 
 about the battle with a dragon-god, close to the end of the game.
  - Nice music and sound fxs. Although it borrows many of them from the original game.
  - A' class 
 voice acting.
  - Right amount of difficulty and challenge and good gameplay to make the game very pleasant.
 
  
  THE BAD:
  - Bad programming and many bugs. You need to download a patch to avoid the most of them. 
  - 
 Bad programming's proof is the fact that the game has ridiculously high system requirements to 
 play it. It doesn't offer something so "outside of the box" to accept that. Even with a new pc 
 you might face some minor glitches, especially if you try to change the default graphics settings.
 
  
  CONCLUSION:
  - This is the best game in the series for me and at the top 5 RPGs I've ever played. Improved in 
 every aspect from the first one. If the programming wasn't so poor, it was going to be the perfect 
 NWN game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: downsider
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 5, 2008 5:01 pm PT
Review:  I've always wanted to try this game and others like it. Though i was scared to do so since i didn't 
 know what i was getting myself into. 
  
  I heard about the first Neverwinter Nights from Bioware being this great game that every RPG maniac 
 loves. I never got my chance to try it.
  
  I decided to give this one a try and from the first few hours i was really sucked in and enjoying 
 the game. The story is great, gameplay is solid and graphics aren't too bad. One thing that got 
 me down was that it needs a pretty powerful rig to run the game on highest settings, which i can't.
 
  
  Since the game isin't that great looking i though i'd have to problem to run the game since i can 
 run others such as The Elder Scrolls: Oblivion and Mass Effect. I was wrong.
  
  Aside from that the game is very solid with great voice acting. Not all speak in full dialgue which 
 brings it down for me. Those that do however, seem to fit the character flawlessly. 
  
  The overall sound to the game is nicely done. The sound of spells are pretty cool and the music 
 is also nicely done. It may not be anything like Gothic 3 but it fits well with the game.
  
  The gameplay is what i always look for games these days since they fail most of the time, this 
 game doesin't fail. Gameplay is very solid, doesin't show itself as a Hack' N Slash game as i thought 
 it would be. I like how you can pause the game when you need to, and click on a health potion and 
 command your buddies to do some special abilities and wipe out a group of enemies.
  
  Another thing i seem to like too is the character creation. With plenty of races to choose from 
 and Sub-Races, gives alot of replayability to the game, since the dialogue seems to change each 
 time you are a different race. Also each race is good for a different class.
  
  At first it really confused me because i'm not familiar with Dungeons & Dragons but after a while 
 i got the hang of things. Even when it comes to checking out your characters stats it confused 
 me since i had no idea what all this '1d8 meant at all. I understood it all in time.
  
  There seems to be alot of things in the game to keep you on your toes, crafting items is fun. It 
 took me awhile to find any new set of armour but it was worth it in the end. 
  
  Overall this is a very solid game and i really enjoy playing it. Going to see if i can grab the 
 first Neverwinter Nights and give it a shot at. 
  
  There seems to be no bugs at all, so the game is very playable with some settings turned off. Good 
 thing graphics dont mean to the world to me.
  
  --------------------------------------------------------
  
  Can't wait to put my teeth into 
 the first game and check out NWN 2: Storm of Zehir.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmandi
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 22, 2008 2:13 am PT
Review:  This was best RPG i played for some time.
  
  In game graphic is nice, it's not very realistic but since this is D&D game realism isn't that 
 important. Combat, while not innovative is quite enjoyable. It doesn't require you to manage every 
 party member during combat because of decent AI. While you can still do it, in most fights it isn't 
 really necessary.
  Story is great, it starts slow but soon escalates to classic battle to save the realm. 
  Companions 
 are very good, they are interesting and you will surely like at least one of them.
  
  Only downside in game are bugs and bad ending.
  Even with Mask of Betrayer expansion and the 
 last patch there are some really annoying bugs.
  I won't talk about bad ending because it would be spoiler.
  
  It's great game, if you liked 
 Baldur's Gate you will definitely like Neverwinter Nights 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Voldy26
Rating: 4.5
Date: Aug 14, 2008 3:42 pm PT
Review:  Remember how easy and intuitive the interface was in the original Neverwinter Nights? Well, try 
 to suppress the memory, and you may find this game's interface tolerable, because it's clumsy and 
 counterintuitive to the same degree. The interface screens (character sheet, inventory, spellbook, 
 etc.) are confusing and badly-proportioned, the menu is extremely uncomfortable to use, the characters 
 are difficult to control. In the beginning of the game I spent about 10 minutes trying to figure 
 out how to pick an NPC's pocket. When you have to spend ten minutes trying to figure out how to 
 perform a basic action, you know the game designers screwed up. Like, big time. And on top of that, 
 NWN 2 has the audacity of running rather slowly, although its graphics are nothing special by today's 
 standards. I've heard that it has a great storyline and well-written dialogue, and maybe it's true 
 (I liked the dialogues I saw) , but I'm not going to find out for myself. I'd rather play a game 
 that is actually playable, even if it's lacking in the plot and dialogue department. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Torque1599
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 9, 2008 3:51 pm PT
Review:  Neverwinter Nights 2 is everything you could want from an RPG and more. The characters are memorable, 
 the storyline sucks you in and won't let go, and the gameplay is fun with just the right amount 
 of challenge. 
  
  The story follows your character, a Harborman who eaks out a meager living in the swamp village 
 of West Harbor. One evening, your village barely survives a onslaught from unknown assailants and 
 you must go out on a great quest to uncover the origin of these attackers and the strange silver 
 shards that they seek.
  
  The characters are definitely worth mentioning. All of them are superbly well written and acted. 
 Half the entertainment value of this game comes from their interactions. Also, the villains are 
 colorful foes that you love to hate. Particularly the evil sorceror and dark mastermind Black Garius. 
 The well written villains and the game's unique influence system come together in the end of the 
 game. Black Garius earns automatic cool points for doing what I always said I wanted to see RPG 
 villains do, turn your own allies against you.
  
  The first thing I noticed about this game is how flexible the character creation system is. You 
 can be anything from a stealthy rogue to a savage barbarian. You can even write your own background, 
 though this has no effect on gameplay. 
  
  The game itself is classic point and click RPG gameplay. You fight enemies by clicking on them, 
 or by clicking the icons for your various class abilites and spells from the action menu and from 
 your quick cast menu. The menu system is simple and intuitive. 
  
  Combat has a very strategic feel to it. You can pause the action at any time and survey the situation 
 or issue orders to your party members. The ability to pause the action is often a lifesaver, especially 
 at higher levels. At max settings, spells spray all manner of colorful particle effects all over 
 the screen. This often makes it difficult to see exactly what is going on. Also, when things get 
 busy, it can be hard to target exactly the right enemy, so you often find yourself engaged in a 
 pixel hunt. 
  
  Despite it's flaws, Neverwinter Nights 2 is one of the best computer RPGs of all time. If you liked 
 Baldur's Gate, Diablo II, Planescape: Torment or any of the other PC RPGs of the last decade, Neverwinter 
 Nights 2 is a great game and defiantly worth the price of admission. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gmh2000
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 23, 2008 10:32 am PT
Review:  The game is great. I love the gameplay and the spell effects. I love how your team waits for you 
 at a central location.
  
  The camera controls suck. I wish you could turn off camera control via the mouse, as it swings 
 around WAAAY too fast to really get a view where you want it. They need 2 camera LOCKS. one for 
 UP/DOWN and one for LEFT/RIGHT, each which you could lock independently or separately, where it 
 will stay in a certain position all the time, no matter if you hit a camera move with the keyboard 
 or mouse or not.
  
  Don't like that I cannot access teammates' inventory at the Sunken Flagon, for example, without 
 leaving and adding them to my team. They need to just add an accessible box where you can store 
 all items in your personal room. Code it as a mix between a Merchant and a Teammate, so you can 
 access it's inventory, but the items won't disappear. "Talk To" teammates in Sunken Flagon should 
 bring up an option: "Would you like to look through my pack?" or something from the character, 
 bringing up their inventory so you can drag to/from their inventory. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bennettwthomas
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 10, 2008 2:59 am PT
Review:  When you first start playing this game you feel a bit disappointed by the slow start, however once 
 you get past the first hour or so of gaming and finally get out into the full world around your 
 starting position this game explodes. nowadays this game looks quite dated especially when compared 
 to games like oblivion or knights of the old republic, however how many of us do just play games 
 like this for the graphics? I know personally that I still go back and play Baldurs Gate and Planescape 
 Torment, not because of the graphics but because of the gameplay and the story. That is one of 
 the things that really grab you about this game because once it starts going it builds up pace 
 beyond belief and after sitting down for a quick game you look at your watch and realise that hours 
 have passed and you hadn't even noticed.
  The bad points are things like the camera angle, it is a pain especially after playing Oblivion, 
 but you get the hang of it and find yourself switching from the follow cam to an isometric view 
 during fights without even realising.
  All in all this game does have a few faults but is far superior to it's older sibling and almost 
 on par with the Baldurs Gate series and Torment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bruneauinfo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 6, 2008 8:04 am PT
Review:  This is it! If you want to play D&D but don't want to round up your friends, set up the table, 
 get out the game pieces, haggle over rules, clean up the mess, etc Blizzard has the solution. On 
 top of that you won't even need half your imagination either because special effects in this game 
 are great. The Blizzard team has done a great job of bringing you a fun and lively romp across 
 a landscape drenched in the lore and violence that is Dungeons and Dragons. Of course it's not 
 the same as playing D&D with your friends. Computers are only so intelligent. But NWN2 does rise 
 above a standard hack and slash button masher like Champions of Norath. If you're familiar with 
 KOTOR's interface then you've played NWN2. Just make sure you switch to Character Mode with the 
 '*' key and the games are so identical you'll hardly be able to tell the difference. The difference 
 between KOTOR and NWN2 is in the content of course. There are more feats and spells and classes 
 and races to chose from. Also, they don't make expansion packs for KOTOR. And once you finish NWN2's 
 main campaign there are lots of new modules to chose from. So once you get going you can stay going 
 for a long time. And that doesn't even include online play which adds a whole new dimension. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robsmits
Rating: 5
Date: Jul 2, 2008 11:48 am PT
Review:  It's taken me a few years to get round to playing this mainly because i never liked the first game. 
 It's pretty much the only hailed RPG that i had yet to play on PC.
  
  Basically if your the sort of person who is patient & forgiving with the worst camera in computer 
 game history then you will probably find lots to enjoy. But, if your like me & have zero tolerance 
 to bad camera's then avoid like Posh & Becks. I had read in reviews that the camera was iffy but 
 i was simply not prepared for how bad it actually was. Why oh why oh why would you put something 
 like this in to scupper your game. 
  
  It's a shame because NW2 seems to have lots of things going for it. Decent voice acting & sound 
 effects, it's huge & has a very deep system that takes a while to master. However i found the story 
 to be hopeless. This had been the only reason i'd played for 10 hours or so just to see if the 
 story panned out into anything interesting. The game just feels so generic & geeky with little 
 imagination on show. To be honest i think i liked this less than the very dull original game. I 
 guess i should have known better, but i was still expecting a lot better game than this. This must 
 be for hardcore d&d geeks out there who also like masochistic control schemes because i simply 
 can't see what all the fuss is about & i think 10 hours or so was enough to give a fair review. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: suds100
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 24, 2008 1:36 am PT
Review:  Neverwinter Nights 2
  
  I have played NWN previously and recently just finished NWN2. The captivating storyline has not 
 been lost from the first edition and this was ultimately the motivating factor behind me completing 
 the game. I felt that the A. I. still sucked though. My henchman, Khelgar Ironfist, refused to follow 
 and protect me about halfway through the game and this disease spread to the others sooner or later! 
 I had been engrossed in the game for some time and had forgotten to apply the patches and was forced 
 to do so after Act I because it refused to load the modules for Act II. I hoped that the henchmen 
 problems would be solved but that didn't happen. It did help the crappy camera control. It felt 
 like my mouse was on steroids after that! 
  
  I found that a major improvement is the ease of traveling through maps i. e. the various locations 
 in the game. I remember sometimes traveling through a series of unnecessary maps in NWN just to 
 get to some way out destination. The loading of these unnecessary maps were time consuming and 
 irritating at times when you felt like you couldn't take the suspense any longer. NWN2 has at least 
 one "World Map Transition" point in any map and once you select it, you can choose any destination 
 from a list that would appear based on which locations are made available to you at that time. 
 
  
  The cut-scenes were brilliantly done, together with the background music, sound effects and voices. 
 They collectively played the greatest part in absorbing the player into the storyline and into 
 the whole medieval atmosphere in general. The subtle humour and quips among the henchmen was welcoming 
 and enhanced the interaction of the characters. It was good to see the clash of personalities and 
 classes that were displayed. You also had the ability to control your henchmen individually which 
 added a degree of flexibility unknown to NWN! Qara was among my favourite because she had a Meteor 
 Swarm spell that was really useful against multiple enemies. Khelgar was beefed to the core with 
 his Ironfist garb and had a better attack rate than my main character! 
  
  The range of weapons is simply unbelievable. Many a times I would be stumped when a choice had 
 to be made. Once I had acquired Tenser's Sword I didn't want to part with it, but then the Nameless 
 Light just took my breath away. This was before the reforging of the Silver Sword of Gith! 
  
  The graphics however, did not have much improvement over NWN and again I was too captured by 
 the storyline to care. Controlling the camera before installing the official updates gave me a 
 headache and the A. I. almost gave me a nervous breakdown but all in all, this was a great game 
 based solely on storyline and gameplay. I'm still trying to find out how this game could have been 
 so resource hungry when the main processing areas (graphics and A. I.) are on the bottom of my list! 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FinalSword22
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 24, 2008 1:43 am PT
Review:  Description - 
  
  Bards sing tales of heroes from ages past, but never have the Forgotten Realms so desperately needed 
 a champion. Years have passed since the war between Luskan and Neverwinter, almost enough time 
 for the wounds of war to heal. But the brief peace the Realms have known may be at an end. Tension 
 growing between the mighty city-states means the Sword Coast again teeters on the edge of open 
 war. Unnoticed, a greater danger stalks the City of Skilled Hands. Unbeknownst to the denizens 
 of the North, deep in the Mere of Dead Men, dark forces from across the Realms have been rallied 
 under the banner of a legendary evil. If left unchallenged, all of the North is doomed to fall 
 under its power.
  
  Even in this darkest hour, hope remains. A mysterious relic is borne to Neverwinter in the hands 
 of a lone hero so that its secrets may be unlocked - secrets that carry the fate of all the North. 
 So begins an epic tale of shattered alliances, noble acts and dark deeds to be told across the 
 Realms for generations to come.
  
  First Impressions - 
  
  My first impression was the game was done very well. Not only that, I thought the game gave very 
 many choices as to what I wanted my character to be. One thing that bugged me starting out was 
 the few choices I was given for a character's looks; it wasn't that big of a deal, however, and 
 it more than makes up for it.
  
  Difficulty - Medium.
  
  Some parts can be difficult, but not so much that you are tearing your hair out. Just remember 
 to save frequently, usually after a big battle, because otherwise you might find yourself doing 
 the same tedious tasks. The game can often catch you off guard with a boss or a big group of enemies. 
 
  
  Review : 
  
  Graphics - 8.0
  
  This part is where most of the problems are born. It isn't so much the graphics looks, for they 
 are decent, but mostly the problems that come out of the graphics looking like they do. The graphic 
 system for this game is horrible; some lower-end computers can play this game better than most 
 higher-end computers. Mine ran really slow for a while, until I decided to poke around with the 
 system files. Eventually I found the game's cache options, and I changed it from 500 to 5000. My 
 computer now runs it at what I think is a good speed for an RPG (an average of 30 FPS) . The reason 
 this score isn't lower is because of the beautiful spells. They were probably the greatest factor 
 in making my second play through as much fun as it was. 
  
  Sound - 9.0
  
  The game definitely has memorable music. Not only that, they don't really bore you with a track, 
 since the next area usually has a different track that is played. Also, it didn't seem like the 
 game came back to a track they used very often, so this is definitely a game's strong point. 
 
  
  Story - 8.0
  
  I thought the story was good. It sucked me in long enough for me to enjoy the game. However, after 
 a while the story seemed to lose it's charm, and a lot of elements seemed repeated from earlier 
 in the game. Eventually I found that if a character I was traveling with died I wouldn't really 
 care. The characters definitely feel forced on, because I don't have the option to not travel with 
 them. 
  
  Interest Level - 10
  
  The game had me interested from the get-go. All of the characters you create were different to 
 play with in some way, so you could replay the game and come across different situations because 
 of it. Playing as a good character and then an evil character is a much different ball game; I 
 had a lot of fun killing people that annoyed me the first time through.
  Gameplay - 9.0
  
  The game is rather easy to understand once you get going. One thing that annoyed me for the 
 first hour or so was the camera. However, once I was used to it, it was harder to go back and play 
 games like this one because of the different camera. I could recommend this game to beginners of 
 the RPG genre because it is quite easy to get started.
  
  Fun Level - 9.5
  
  This game is fun. There is no denying that. Although, the second time through, the tasks were annoying 
 to do over, but I continued doing it just to see what was different because of the different path 
 I was taking. So, I didn't really have a problem with that. 
  
  Bug/Glitch Level (higher score means fewer bugs) - 6.5
  
  With the bugs this game has, I'm 
 surprised it's gone through so many patches. On my third time through, Elanee's event was bugged, 
 so I never even got her on my team. With the various lag issues this game has on even the highest-end 
 computers, It's a surprise this game was playable on the computers that made it! It's worse on 
 Vista, too, but that's not Vista's fault as much as it was the game's fault. However, I gave the 
 game credit, because with the patches, they have definitely fixed a lot of the visible problems 
 with the game. Also, if you're not lazy enough to tinker with some of the files or graphical settings, 
 it should work alright. Oh, and Mask of the Betrayer fixed a LOT of the graphical problems this 
 game had (even on the regular campaign for me) , but that's for another review. All in all, I was 
 quite disappointed with its bugs. 
  
  Overall Score  9.0
  
  This game is definitely deserving of it's high scores across the board.
  
  Final Thoughts :
 
  
  Despite its bugs, I REALLY enjoyed this game. It's a lot of fun. They also did a really good job 
 of incorporating the rules of D&D into the game in my opinion. Anyone that enjoys RPGs and/or D&D 
 should give this game a try; I recommend this game to everyone, however. 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: chuamishael
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 12, 2008 8:30 pm PT
Review:  The game is not bad , but not that great either
  
  worst than the first neverwinter nights. most of the spells are useless, D&D never use mana, and 
 the game is known to be to most straight forward hack and slash RPG out there. there so many many 
 class in D&D, but most probably you only choose a few you like, since the game is very challenging 
 for beginners, and they have to familiaries with the way, D&D rulse handle spells, mage are always 
 use for support in D&D, but cannot do a long battle, since most of the spells are too short to 
 be useful specially in NW2. and mage in this game really needs a tank member to survive. otherwise, 
 they are boring to use, and just choose a bunch of melee characters. but in any case, 
  
  The game goes back to the days of BG2, where strong strategy is required, so basically, you have 
 to manage yourself. no.. I mean you should manage a group of party members, choose carefully or 
 you end up dead later in the game. 
  
  the Graphics is NICE!, good job designers. 
  
  but the spell casting feature is still confusing to beginners, not me, cause I know which is useful 
 to me and which is not .... be creative Wizard of the Coast!! you can make, "Magic the Gathering 
 Card games" to be addictive and intense. but make games like neverwinter nights look like a joke.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lilgunney612
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 10, 2008 2:24 am PT
Review:  Four years after the original and highly rated Neverwinter Nights, Obsidian steps up to the plate 
 to fill in Bioware's shoes for a sequel worthy of the great RPG title "Neverwinter". First thing 
 you need to do is create a character, You have loads of different races and classes to choose from 
 to make your character completely unique and in-tune to your play style. The classes will vary 
 from strong melee only classes that deal out (or recieve) loads of damage to mighty wizards that 
 and kill a horde of enemies with one spell and anything in between. The game starts off relatively 
 slow as you go through a tutorial cleverly disguised as a simple fair. The game has you doing tasks 
 such as trading furs to a merchant for a bow that you need to give to your stepfather. Though it 
 is slow, it still does an exellent job introducing you to the game mechanics. The game does use 
 standard Dungeons and Dragons rules so it may be a tiny bit complicated for someone not familiar 
 with RPGs. But even if you arn't familiar with the D&D universe, you should be able to pick the 
 game up relatively quickly, about 30 minutes or less if you are just a casual gamer. And even though 
 this game is a sequel to the first, you do not need to have played the first one to understand 
 whats going on in the story.
  
  All that aside, lets get to the fun part. After the beginning "Tutorial" the story kicks off, Bladelings 
 (goblin-like creatures) attack your home and you must fend them off along side your militia buddies. 
 After the attack, your father reveals why the Bladelings attacked and sends you on a mission towards 
 the human capital of Neverwinter. What seems like a simple task quickly changes into an epic quest 
 for the survival of the world. You will meet a bunch of colorful and unique characters along the 
 way such as a temper-mental dwarf that loves to get into fights, and an annoying Teifling (devil-like 
 race also available for character creation) who's purpose is unknown un-till late in the game and 
 more. These people arn't just there for show, they prove very useful in combat and you WILL need 
 them. Unlike the first Neverwinter Nights were they had you exploring the lands either by yourself 
 or with one other AI controlled character, this game allows up to three other people in your party. 
 Because of this the game had to be balanced out so you no longer are able to do it alone. This 
 can prove to be difficult as your AI companions arn't very smart, More often than not, they will 
 get suck behind a building or fence and sometimes they will not follow you at all. But when they 
 do act as the game intended them to, they can prove useful in certain tasks such as unlocking doors 
 or chests for loot or as a meat shield to take all the blows from the enemies if you are a mage 
 or any other lightly armored class. 
  
  Along with the loads of AI problems there are a few bugs in the game that can get in the way of 
 your quest to save the world. One bug i experienced during my play-through was a bug in which one 
 of my companions just disappeared from the game completely and was totally unusable for the rest 
 of the game. Although they have come along way in patching, there are still bugs around that can 
 just ruin your experience with the game. Bugs aside however, the storyline and game play mechanics 
 make up for most of it. The storyline makes some unexpected turns and makes you really care about 
 whats going on within the world. And game play mechanics just add to the emotion, one mission will 
 have you in control of a ruined keep and the game has you build it up from scratch. I cant talk 
 about that aspect too much but it does add a sense of responsibility to the game. Although at times 
 the game can be too overwhelming at times in terms of what needs to be done in order to advance 
 in the game. Some missions have you searching the world several times over un-till you finally 
 understand what needs to be done, although, there are very few of these types of quests so it is 
 not a major problem. 
  
  Along with a great single player campaign the Devs also added online and downloadable features 
 to the game as well, after you finish the main story you are able to replay it with a friend and 
 get a totally different ending than the first time. If you get bored with that there are several 
 downloadable fan content you can get of the internet such as Modules which are short little mini-quests 
 that usually last about 2-5 hours. You can even download entire campaigns that last 20+ hours. 
 Everything you download is entirely fan made so you can expect some really good and not so good 
 downloads. 
  Also, because its all fan made, you can create a campaign of your own using the editor. The editor 
 can be complicated but if you know what you are doing, you can create some unique and crazy stuff. 
 
  
  With the official single player storyline alone this game can easily last over fifty hours of pure 
 gameplay. With all of the online content added you can expect that time to double. When you play 
 this game, I recommend you have a clear schedule because once you start, it is very hard to stop. 
 All that being said, I can easily recommend this game to anyone willing to try out an RPG, from 
 the most hardcore players to the simple casual gamer, it is sure to please. Just make sure you 
 have a decent computer no more than two years old or you will suffer from performance issues due 
 to the lack of optimization. SO the question still remains. Is this a worthy sequel to the first 
 Neverwinter Nights? The answer is yes, as long as you can look past some bugs, AI and graphical 
 problems, you are sure to have fun with this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingShivan
Rating: 4
Date: Jun 4, 2008 11:33 am PT
Review:  This, is a travesty. But, I suppose I shouldn't have expected too much from them after NWN the 
 first.
  
  Though they thankfully hired a decent music director and actually did make a decently interesting 
 beginning to the game, and otherwise addressed many of my faults with the previous game, the end 
 result is the same- utter crap.
  
  Understand that I'm coming from the perspective of someone who's played RPGs of the hack, slash, 
 and occasionally pause nature since Diablo and Baldur's Gate, and my experience of those games 
 was one of absolute delight. I loved Baldur's Gate 1, 2, 2.5 and Icewind Dale 2. I still play them 
 as often as any of the newer games I buy. I loved Kotor 1 and 2.
  
  Anyway, back to the review. Having absolutely loved the BG series and KoToR, NWN was an absolute 
 let down because of it's lack of decent music, lack of decent voice talent (except for some of 
 the NPCs) , abysmal beginning storyline (seriously... "Go cure a disease"? Isn't there a Tycoon 
 game for that?) , and ultimately, EXTREMELY weak gameplay.
  
  I say in my review of NWN that the gameplay is not bad. I recant. Looking back on what I experienced, 
 and putting it in the light of Baldur's Gate 2 (which I just recently played through again) , and 
 now playing NWN2, I now am forced to say that the gameplay is absolutely terrible. Even aside from 
 the appalling camera controls, the fighting in the game is so slow as to be ridiculous. Spell casting 
 is quick enough, but plain old attacking? Your character spends more time standing in front of 
 and starting hard at your opponent than he does walking from place to place! I swear, it felt like 
 in that round of 6 seconds, fully 5.9 of those seconds involved waiting while your character breathed 
 hard. And while I vaguely remember NWN not being that bad, I remember that I had sort of the same 
 issue with it as well.
  
  That aside, let's go back to the cameras. I don't know WHAT the hell they are thinking these days. 
 Diablo and Diablo 2 and other such games succeed and do well only because either the camera doesn't 
 move at ALL and so all the designers have to do is choose a good angle, or because the control 
 of that camera is vaguely doable. Not so in NWN2. It's all but impossible! Even IF I somehow found 
 the energy to want to try to tweak it, I doubt I'd be able to fix it that well. (I suppose I should 
 mention i haven't tried the patches yet, so I fully intend to eat my words if their patches fixed 
 any of my issues with the game, but I highly doubt it)
  
  But the worst, most horrible soul-raping aspect of this game is the character system itself. I 
 hadn't known about it before hand, or so help me I might be dead now from acute underwhelm-itis 
 so I was extremely surprised and very pleased to read in the installation that there would be 4 
 companions total in the game, controlled by you. I thought "oh my god, THANK THE LIGHT!, they're 
 going back to their roots, my 3D Baldur's Gate dreams are coming true!!!"...
  
  
  But not so.
  
  Instead... tragedy. It's still just one player character. And a couple little-more-than-henchmen. 
 Sure you level them up too. But can you switch them out for characters you make yourself? No, that'd 
 be too fun and interesting. (for those who might want to point out KoToR, understand that that 
 game is in an entirely different universe, and involving a heavy plot and story, making it absolutely 
 necessary that all your playable characters be tied to the story. You could say that NWN is trying 
 to do the same, but I say nay nay- Neverwinter Nights had a failure of a storyline that having 
 multiple player made characters wouldn't have made a lick of difference in, and the latter part 
 of that carries into NWN2.)
  
  I'll tell you now, I NEVER played a singleplayer game of BG2 or IWD2. I always played multiplayer. 
 Why? so I could make my own party and do whatever the hell I wanted with them. I had total freedom 
 and the game was made all the more fun for it. Sure I missed out on the interactions with the NPCs 
 that bioware lovingly made, sure I only used them for free weapons and armor. Doesn't matter. I 
 don't play these D&D games to run around with characters other people made. I play these games 
 to make my own characters, and see what I can make of them. That was the true beauty of BG2 and 
 IWD2, the freedom you had to experiment with parties and classes and strategies. And then comes 
 NWN 1 and 2, BRAZENLY, INSULTINGLY trying to pass themselves off as being even in the same genre 
 as Baldur's Gate.
  
  I'm sorry. But Baldur's Gate was beautiful. Neverwinter Nights is a travesty.
  
  Also the whole 
 billion choices for skill checks.... that was just freaking irritating. I mean, I understand and 
 appreciate it... but that doesn't change the irritation in needing to basically plan those skill 
 choices out so far in advance for the right prestige class or for being able to continue to be 
 useful in both the skills necessary to be effective at say, hiding and spotting, as well as crafting. 
 And the crafting, oh! Jesus, unless you have a really damn intelligent rogue you pump skills and 
 feats into all the crafting slots, you'd have to spread the 5 or 6 crafting skills out among your 
 entire 4 man party, possibly reducing their effectiveness at other skills... I dunno. The whole 
 skill system just seems pretty fubared to me. If I recall correctly, IWD2 also had skills, but 
 not NEARLY as many and much more easily thought over, especially since you had so many characters 
 to do specialization in while not necessarily missing any of the skills.
  
  You know, really, IWD2 was the perfect iteration of BG2, except it was too darn cold... even apart 
 from being in the frozen north, there just wasn't anywhere near the same sense of closeness/involvement 
 with the NPCs of the world, except for the gnome and his airship and the two villains. I dunno. 
 just my experience with the game. Not as warm and fuzzy as BG2.
  
  I realize they were trying to make a different game with NWN 1 and 2 than BG. I understand. But 
 dammit, if you're going to make a different game, you could at least make it well. And if you start 
 to do a crappy job, do us a favor and go back to your roots and make a newer, prettier version 
 of one of your better received games, not some bastard child of Diablo and BG without even the 
 benefit of the polish of Blizzard games.
  
  And yes, I'm calling EVERYONE who liked this or NWN 1 more than or the same as Baldur's Gate completely 
 tasteless and unworthy of any decent games they might accidentally play. And I urge the poor people 
 who never knew BG2 or IWD2 to find a copy of those and see for themselves the games Bioware USED 
 to be able to make. Play KoToR and see what they USED to be able to do. Then TRY to play NWN again.
 
  
  (I realize Obsidian made NWN2 and KoToR2, but seeing as it seems that obsidian has only ever touched 
 something that bioware/black Isle touched first... I can't help but consider them almost the same 
 group....) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: albertofilgueir
Rating: 8
Date: May 31, 2008 8:17 am PT
Review:  The main characteristic of a great RPG is the storyline. I really don't like most of then because 
 of tons of boring sequences of the same long dialogs with ordinary content. But Neverwinter Nights 
 is a bit of different. Althought you still have the long talk sequences, it presents a fun story 
 and lots of different, but original quests. I say original because of the reasons to kill a monter 
 or collect an item, but at the end, this remains the same. Like Baldur's Gate, Neverwinter Nights 
 brings the D&D system, witch is great, with dices simulation (that doesn't appear on the screen, 
 that's a critic - it should appear) and the tactical attributes whatch brings amusement do the 
 gameplay and combat sequeces. The most fun of this great game is, obviously, the customization 
 of your character. You can create, almost infinite, kinds of warriors, mages, thiefs and priests. 
 Each one has a different characteristic and you can create your own race and class. Well, another 
 great game from Bioware and the fans of D&D and general RPG will love it certainly. PS: The online 
 content and gameplay is also great! Explore this universe online too. It worths it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FallenAngelXBL
Rating: 7
Date: May 19, 2008 12:43 pm PT
Review:  Hey GS
  
  Id like to put down how I Score games (this is important if you want to understand why my score 
 is so 'low':
  1 - Utter rubbish
  2 - Utter rubbish
  3 - rubbish
  4 - average
  5 - Good
  6 - Pretty good
  7 - Great
  8 - Greater than 7
  9 - Awesome
  10 - so great 
 ill never review a game that's this good... period.
  
  If you have read my other reviews on the Neverwinter Nights series, you should know im a big fan 
 of the series, as well as the genre. So i immediately bought the newest title aptly named Neverwinter 
 Nights 2, which unlike Shadows of Undrentide or Hordes of the Underdark is a full game with some 
 pretty neat additions such as:
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  The graphics in the originals, lets say 'Trilogy of games' were decent. Dated by todays standards, 
 but they animated well and looked the part. As this is a few years later, and a new producer behind 
 the wheel, they have updated the graphics... by a hell of a lot. There is proper facial details, 
 you can see each individual hair on your characters head, every single link in your chain mail, 
 every imperfection in your weapon. It looks stunning. They have even redone all the magic, so your 
 magic missiles, look even more awesome than they used to. However, they are not perfect. Most computers 
 cant run this game at Low-Medium never mind Highest. So if you have a dated machine, or a machine 
 thats not state of the art then you may have to seriously reduce your settings if you want to run 
 this above 30fps. However, if your like me and own a Mythical Computer that can run this game, 
 then enjoy the eye candy.
  
  SOUND
  
  Like always, the musical score is fantastic. Everything is perfectly composed to fit in with everything 
 thats going on in the game world and you just get sucked in because of it. Voice acting as a whole 
 is really good. You can really sense the emotion each character is giving off and thats a hard 
 thing to achieve. HOWEVER! Not all voice acting is great. Such as your father has the most bland 
 voice i have ever heard, it is terrible. Its like Microsoft Sam, mabe he is supposed to be like 
 that to be the prick in the game (which he is) , i dunno. But the WORST thing about the sound has 
 to be the recycled chants and war cries. Ok, yeah they have added one or two to the list, but the 
 majority are from the ORIGINAL BALDURS GATE! I mean bllody hell, get some new voices people. 
 
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  You start off by creating your character. You get to choose from the Following (sigh, long list) : 
 Human, Halfling, Half elf, elf, dwarf, half orc, gnome, plane race (or something) and i think thats 
 it. But inside these races you have: Wood elf, moon elf, sun elf and dark elf/ Drow, 3-4 types 
 of gnomes, 2-3 dwarves and either some sort of godly thing thats basically an angel without wings 
 or a demon who has his own set of horns. Thats also of races, oh yeah and then you've got Sub race 
 (make ya own race) . You then get to pick from the classes which there are a huge selection to pick 
 from ranging from Warriors to thieves to wizards to druids. Theres well over 20 if not 30 classes 
 to pick from each with at least 4 packages to pick from which determine your skill set up, as well 
 as customize your own package AND loads of Prestige classes such as the Neverwinter Nine, Pale 
 Master, arcane archer, arcane trickster and about 15 more. You also get to pick your religion which 
 has little effect, but is a cool add on, your alignment and your upbringing which adds and reduces 
 your skills. This is a really in depth character creation that lets you make hundreds of different 
 characters all completely different. 
  
  Once you do that, your thrown into a 60-80 hour long story loaded with side missions, interesting 
 characters and some comedy along the way to keep you amused. The story is really good, the characters 
 are all unique and interesting and have there own prejudices against each other such as the Demon 
 Rouge you get early on hates everyone because she thinks everyone hates her... which they do but 
 thats not the point. And of course, the honor bound dwarf who wants to become a monk... which is 
 weird in itself... If you loved the Tool Set in the original, then you will love the new one, its 
 pretty much the same but with nicer graphics and a few new tweaks. Nice addition. 
  
  OVERALL
  
  A great start to a new series, that should appeal to all fans of PC RPG's who want 
 a new adventure that is both gripping and rather funny at times with a interesting line up of characters, 
 locations and missions. However not recommended for people who dont like DnD, new ro CRPG's or 
 have a really bad computer as you wont get the same great experience as everyone else. 
  
  7/10 GREAT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: totalgridlock
Rating: 9
Date: May 10, 2008 6:15 am PT
Review:  The first Neverwinter Nights game was released back in 2002 courtesy of genre-giants Bioware, and 
 not only pushed boundaries for computer role-playing games in general, but set a whole new standard 
 for community involvement. Mod-making, persistent worlds, team-based gameplay  these were the 
 the facets for which Neverwinter Nights and the community it spawned were rightfully praised. Move 
 forward four years and a sequel is released, this time by Bioware brothers-in-arms Obisidian. Best 
 known for their previous project, Knights of the Old Republic II (sequel to another Bioware gem) , 
 Obsidian are in fact born from the ashes of another, sadly-defunct RPG studio named Black Isle; 
 who are in turn, famous for a series of stellar RPGs including Icewind Dale, Planescape Torment 
 and Fallout. Neverwinter Nights 2 has quite the pedigree, it seems.
  
  While playing through the main Neverwinter Nights 2 campaign, it quickly becomes obvious that this 
 is a very different game from its predecessor indeed. While the first game was praised for its 
 multi-player approach, fans of traditional Bioware outings such as Baldur's Gate lamented at the 
 loss of the kind of rich narrative-driven gameplay we had come to expect from the company. It seems 
 that Obsidian have taken heed and not only improved upon nearly every aspect of the multi-player 
 and community aspect of the game, but brought the game much closer to it's single-player roots.
 
  
  The party system is back, and depending upon in-game circumstances, we can have up to six non-player 
 characters at our backs at any time. Each NPC is solidly-written, interesting and for the most 
 part, not annoying. Of course, a great character line-up instantly sets the scene for a deep, involving 
 plot focusing squarely on you.
  
  It may not be quite up to the standards of the long, dark and deeply personal storylines of the 
 epic Baldur's Gate series, but Neverwinter Nights 2 provides a compelling narrative that is thankfully 
 much more gripping, driven and interesting than the unfortunate 'go to four areas, find four things' 
 quests that permeated the first Neverwinter Nights. Firstly, it is not a sequel. You play the part 
 of a simple villager, caught up in a rapidly-unfolding whirlwind of events around an ancient and 
 evil Shadow Lord, involving the Githyanki, a silver sword, dark rituals, a romance (of course) 
 and the kicker: you are more important than you know. What RPG doesn't rely on that old trick? 
 I like the story, it's a nice old-school adventure that provides a good an excuse as any to spend 
 more time in the Forgotten Realms.
  
  It's a great setting, and the Dungeons & Dragons-based gameplay is as solid as ever. It provides 
 near-endless character customisation with not only the usual array of basic classes, skills and 
 stats, but a range of interesting prestige classes that allow you to shape your avatar pretty much 
 as you please and prepare yourself for the challenge ahead. It is a challenging game, and fights 
 range from spanking goblins to fighting massive armies, slaying dragons and powerful wizards, and 
 surviving the epic centrepiece of the final act: a long castle siege against marauding evil forces.
 
  
  How the player controls all this action is obviously a big issue. The original release version 
 of the interface was initially and quite rightly derided for being clumsy, awkward, way too large 
 and counter-intuitive, especially when compared to the fluidity of the original Neverwinter Nights. 
 All I can say is: patch your game. The patches and updates available in the two years since release 
 have not only totally revamped the GUI and interface, but have dealt with many graphics-related 
 bugs and complaints. It's still not as slick as the first game (I want my radial menus, thank you 
 very much) , but it's not bad either. Alternatively, Neverwinter Nights 2 has taken a MMO-style 
 approach and features full support for community-designed interfaces. Chances are, there's something 
 out there you'll like.
  
  The graphics are a vast improvement from the now-antiquated looks of the original game, and even 
 two years after release Neverwinter Nights 2 holds up as a great-looking game. Landscapes are detailed, 
 covered with all manner of trees, structures and the like and have non-blocky terrain which is 
 an achievement in itself. Character models stand up to scrutiny even when zoomed in so close you 
 can see pimples. Well, sort of. The game doesn't go for an extremely realistic look; there's a 
 definite and very appropriate fantasy vibe to the design which is aided by some mighty fancy spell 
 effects and an entire bestiary of magical creatures. The whole thing looks bright and colourful, 
 surprising considering the game basically revolves around evil shadows. On a note; slower computers 
 may struggle with high graphical settings, especially on unpatched versions of the game  all I 
 can suggest is that you patch pronto and fiddle with the settings until things look smooth.
  
  As for the audio side of things, I find the voice-acting good, which can be expected, although 
 I struggle to pick out any particular voices. It's fun to listen to the banter between characters 
 and best of all, there's actually a few perfectly listenable pre-sets for your character so you 
 don't end up cringing every time your avatar performs an action. The music is also good, mostly 
 the same sort of blandly inoffensive background orchestrations, but with some great pieces hidden 
 there too.
  
  If there's one thing I wouldn't worry about with Neverwinter Nights 2, it's getting value for money. 
 The game is long, easily 40 hours if you take time out of the main quest to partake in subquests, 
 romances or simply getting to know your in-game companions. Like any good Bioware, Black Isle or 
 Obsidian release, Neverwinter Nights 2 provides much more than meets the eye for those who are 
 willing to look for it. Throw in the strong multi-player side of things, a highly trumpeted feature 
 of the Neverwinter Nights games and the huge online community endlessly turning out mods of all 
 kinds, and getting value for your money is never even a whisper of an issue. There's also an official 
 expansion pack out, titled Mask of the Betrayer, which adds in a whole new campaign, epic levels 
 and a big bunch more.
  
  Neverwinter Nights 2 can best be described as Neverwinter Nights for people who like playing alone. 
 All the community bells and whistles are there if you want them, but never at the expense of a 
 sterling single-player game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crzycespy
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 7, 2008 8:41 pm PT
Review:  OK, this game started with so much promise. A team of old former Black Isle, Interplay, and a few 
 other creative peeps along with Bio's input, making an RPG... This game has to kick ass.
  
  Well, it did; but it was too slow and buggy initially for most gamers to find out. The slowdown 
 was absurd, on both high and low end systems. Plots would often get stuck do to events not triggering, 
 enough so that I was about 100 hours into the game and said, "I am putting this thing away for 
 a year or so, then I'll try again once they get the kinks out".
  
  Well, I waited, and the game seems pretty kink free now.
  
  As always, the DnD system offers 
 more customization than any other CRPG format available. Exceptionally written and classic story. 
 Little Easter eggs here and there are always good for a chuckle. Graphics are surprisingly good 
 if you have a newer mid level PC with a decent graphics card. Oh, and the Stronghold. This is great. 
 I mean fan-fricken-tastic.
  
  There was an old game called Suikoden, that had a similar stronghold system, but not to this level. 
 Besides the writing itself, this may have been my favorite part of the game. Building, recruiting 
 NPC's met along the way to come back to your keep, building up your militia, and keeping up town 
 morale are all welcome additions to a fine gaming endeavor.
  
  Wow this game is fun; now that I can finally run it at high with frame rates over 5 ;^) .
  
 
  Final Update...
  
  Crafting. I hated it initially. Odd, as I really enjoyed some of the cft add-ons for NwN 1, which 
 were much more time consuming, and at times cumbersome (Try low level no magic bag ore lugging 
 for a giggle) . Still, I honestly missed the work, initially. Towards the end of the game (NwN 2) , 
 I found myself begging for another star diamond or beljuril so I could put some finishing touches 
 on equipment.
  
  My characters now seemed like heroes, and, for the most part, I had fashioned all their weapons 
 and armor; err, or at least added properties to them.
  
  My overall opinion of the game is jumping a bit from the already high 8.5 I previously gave. This 
 game actually made my live-in girlfriend mad at me, so I had to switch to playing after 11pm or 
 so when she hit the sack. It was well worth the lost sleep and upgrades.
  
  Speaking of system specs, here is what I would recommend for minimum:
  
  P4 3.0
  2 gigs pc 
 3200 RAM
  8800 GTS 340MB or ati 3850 512MB (An 8800GT/s 512MB) will put you at near max settings with great 
 FPS for a few dollars more) .
  
  I max everything now (except shadows, as they can get intrusive with the camera angles; heh, shadows 
 hurt the angles more than the fps, go figure) . I suppose this game really was ahead of it's time. 
 on a Q6600 2.4 with 2 gigs 6400 ddr2 paired with an 8800GT at 1600x1200. The fps fluctuates between 
 23 and 57 or so depending on the number of spells cast in outdoor areas which will whack me down 
 to the 20's.
  
  Best of luck, and I hope many of you play this game through. Giving up on it is like putting a 
 book down on page 75 because it has not grabbed you enough, then a few pages later you cannot put 
 it down!
  
  This game just misses, I mean just misses the BG highpoint of my crpg marks.
  
  Next up? Mask of the Betrayer review... 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Abedeuss
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 17, 2008 6:35 am PT
Review:  Just to remind you - I'm not some kind of idiot that has never seen an cRPG game or played one. 
 I'm a NwN fan since the day it was released in Europe, I got all expansions and etc. That's why 
 I rated NwN 2 so low. Because it turned out to be a total waste of my and producer's money and 
 time.
  
  Let's start with the plot. Nothing original... You are a farmer, quick tutorial (pretty boring) , 
 everything is in fire. Like in 75% of RPG's. Then you are sent on a quest (like in 99,5% RPG's) . 
 Then you meet ,, exciting'' people, a dwarf-monk... And that's pretty much it. Then there is standard 
 ,, go there, speak with XXX/kill YYY/ other boring stuff, return for reward''. But that's not that 
 bad.
  
  First thing you'll notice about this game is that... It's ugly. Holy crap, this game requires PC 
 as good as Oblivion, runs slower and is uglier than TESIV? What they have done to the engine? NwN 
 1 with all settings turned up requires slower PC, looks as good or even better than NwN 2 and runs 
 smoother.
  
  The only good thing so far is the music. As in all NwN games, it's great. But a lot of it is ripped 
 off the first game...
  
  Also battle mechanism didn't change - roll for who attacks first, attack, counterattack and so 
 on. Few things changed from NwN, but everything is pretty straightforward. You'll have no problems 
 adapting to new things, but if you are a first-timer... Read the instruction, it's written pretty 
 well and should help you.
  
  One thing I don't understand is the interface. What the hell? Where is bar for skills? Wth is ,, quick 
 spell''? WHY DID YOU COMPLICATE IT SO MUCH?! Interface was perfect in nwn 1! Are you mad, people? 
 I hope they'll allow us some day to use the old interface...
  
  Oh, and one thing that really bothers me. They promised us, Bard class, that we will no longer 
 be so useless in NwN 2. Then why, after 2 years of experience at arenas and persistent world I 
 had problems at the first fight after tutorial? Good thing - songs are passive and we don't have 
 to rest every few seconds. Bad thing... Without at least a healer and a tank, you have little chances 
 against monsters. You MUST cross-class to survive by yourself.
  
  So, if you like RPG's and DnD, don't buy this game. Buy NwN 1 + add-ons, it's cheaper and you get 
 much more fun. If not for great music and sound effects, this would get at most 2,5... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wait321
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 12, 2008 5:19 pm PT
Review:  This game does a superb job of integrating the Dungeons and Dragons rules into the game. I also 
 love the story and all the character and relationship development that happens, which is one of 
 the areas that it does so much better in than Oblivion. 
  
  The only downside is that there's not enough freedom which limits the replay value. After going 
 through the game as a good and evil characters, there's really no point to watch the story again.
 
  
  I also don't like the endings. They're too... mediocre. After beating the game I expect a grand 
 ending where I rule over my land and my legend is recounted throughout history. Something to make 
 me feel a sense of accomplishment and motivate me to play again. Instead I get an ending where 
 my character goes missing?! Bioware seems to make a habit of making depressing endings. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: viper251
Rating: 2.5
Date: Apr 12, 2008 10:47 am PT
Review:  The biggest nag I have about this game is definitely the fact that it is so slow. Monotonous and 
 BORING. I spec'd my characters to the 'recommended' setting, and still for some odd reason they 
 hit once in a blue moon. Basically once every 8 attempts. It was just plain ridiculous. The enemies 
 attacked faster, did more damage, and generally were a lot better than all of my recommended characters. 
 Even more so is the abysmal AI, the only thing useful about them is taking flak from the enemies. 
 And sometimes they are not even good at that. I appreciate the amount of possibilities you the 
 characters that the player can create. But when the makers of the game think that 1/8 hits is respectable. 
 I just lose any sight of fun in a game.
  
  Uninteresting - Boring - Broken - Buggy. That sums it up. Even after the patches the game seemed 
 to get WORSE.
  
  
  The best part is definitely the graphics, which aren't even that good, yet demand so much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KinsmanFrederik
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 9, 2008 6:32 am PT
Review:  Neverwinter Nights 2 has kept the best things, including the concept of previous part. It is highly 
 addictive as it can make you playing it for many days, especially it you want your keep to be fully 
 prepared for the incoming enemy attacks. 
  The system of gaining loot after defeating enemies also makes you to keep playing as you always 
 want to get better armor and weapons ( with some additional affinity damage would be my preference) . 
 
  better graphics compared to the previous part makes it more addictive, right? But there are also 
 some letdowns. For example, some characters from your party somehow stop following you and you 
 can't do anything about it, even if you set all the options in puppet mode and so on. Also sometimes 
 they are not helping you during fights. It can be really irritating, especially if you are fighting 
 with large enemy masses or really fierce opponents.
  The sound is great and the whole gameplay stays the same.
  To sum up, it is really a superb game 
 , despite some, I can say, noticeable bugs. One of the best RPG ever! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Total_mischief
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 4, 2008 2:05 am PT
Review:  First, the good points:
  -The storyline is long and is fun to go through with interesting interactions between your companions, 
 leaving them to make a choice later in the game depending on how you've treated them.
  
  -Decent graphics, especially for this sort of game and good visual effects, especially for spells.
 
  
  The bad points:
  -The prologue is a true pain in the rear to go through. It's boring and uninteresting anytime over 
 once. I've tried to make new games but dropping because of the first act, not able to go through 
 it, not finding the interest.
  
  -The entire game is plagued with bugs and glitches, at least Obsidian is fixing them slowly. The 
 more major ones could be seen in the singleplayer campaing, where one of your companion could be 
 switched into the familiar of a wizard because of a glitch, losing that character. It took about 
 five patches before fixing it, but at least they did. The damage reduction is bugged, does not 
 work and in the latest patch they had to fix 75 spells. I honestly have difficulties understanding 
 how could they miss their shot that much.
  
  Overall, it's a good game that takes about 20-30 hours to finish but that is plagued with too many 
 bugs to have a higher rating than this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lovely_beauty
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 26, 2008 7:54 am PT
Review:  I'm surpised so many players grade this badly. This game deserves more than 8 point at least. It 
 does extends the style of NVN in many aspects. The bug is not too serious. Consider the gameplay 
 it is obviously 1 of the best RPG of the year. It also reduces a lot of frustrating actions that 
 occured in NWN 1. Also look at the structure of the story: it's developed very well. The end of 
 the game is not very satisfying, but well u can't really requirre everything in a game. One more 
 point: it does change and fix some classes. For example, it removes shifter and buffs red dragon 
 diciple and so on. Such changes are quite necessary because NWN 1 doesn't offer them even after 
 so many expansion pack. This one is at least not totally outshone buy the 1st version. You are 
 a NWN fan? So u should feel absolutely encouraging with this one because it revives the series 
 and bring more hope for future games. If u ask me it's worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mangaminx
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 16, 2008 1:09 pm PT
Review:  It was a chilly Christmas morning that I over excitedly opened my copy of NWN II (a gift from my 
 wonderful girlfriend) and started my adventure and first impressions were certainly good. Neverwinter 
 Nights II offers a wide range of ways to customize your characters appearance and skills to your 
 hearts content (I opted for a Tiefling rogue, as I just loved the Tieflings tail and I tend to 
 always play rogues!) and while you may not be able to get the exact look you want there is plenty 
 of variety here (something a lot of RPG's lack) . You could literally spend hours playing with your 
 characters skills to work out the ideal combination for you (depending on how bigger D&D geek you 
 are) but I just leapt straight into the game with the "recommended" button for stats, something 
 else the game gets points for including.
  
  This brings us on neatly to the NPC's and dialogue, which are really what made this game so wonderful 
 for me. I'm a sucker for character interaction and NWN II successfully combines the conversation 
 dynamics of Bioware's epic "Jade Empire" into the D&D world to amazing effect. There is rivalries, 
 betrayals, romance and countless possibilities to be found from talking to your party members all 
 of whom are expertly voice acted and full of life. Doubtless you will like some characters more 
 and follow their "storylines" more linking them in with the main plot, but the entire cast all 
 get their moment to shine even if you neglect them.
  
  
  
  This brings us on neatly to the NPC's and dialogue, which are really what made this game so wonderful 
 for me. I'm a sucker for character interaction and NWN II successfully combines the conversation 
 dynamics of Bioware's epic "Jade Empire" into the D&D world to amazing effect. There is rivalries, 
 betrayals, romance and countless possibilities to be found from talking to your party members all 
 of whom are expertly voice acted and full of life. Doubtless you will like some characters more 
 and follow their "storylines" more linking them in with the main plot, but the entire cast all 
 get their moment to shine even if you neglect them.
  
  Now we move on to the few flaws in NWN II, unfortunately they are pretty major depending on how 
 patient you are or how ninja your PC is. First off NWN II is a real system hog even if you have 
 a decent PC, I was running on the recommended specs and still needed to decrease the resolution 
 till the screen text was comparable in size to a small planet to get through the bigger more colourful 
 battles. The game could be forgiven for being so system heavy if it wasn't so very ugly. Obsidian 
 have delivered well in the gameplay aspect but have unfortunately left the cast being beaten by 
 the ugly stick along with all the scenary. It's not diabolical in terms of visuals but its certainly 
 lacking. The other major problem with NWN II is the bugs, the game is prone to random crashes and 
 other bizarre effects, and while there have been many updates to combat this the most recent version 
 I played recently still suffered somewhat from these problems.
  
  Overall what NWN II delivers is a enjoyable experience and certainly the best Dungeons and Dragons 
 based game since Baldurs Gate II. Unfortunately it isn't perfect as bugs and the fact it's a major 
 system hog let it down, however if your patient and can overlook these things there is a lot of 
 fun to be had (About 40 hours or so of it) and some of the best character development since Jade 
 Empire. There's an expansion on the horizon too that I may endeavour to play through at some point 
 but for now I shall leave you with the fact that as long as you like your RPG's in a big way NWN 
 II offers some serious geekery to sink your teeth into.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RexTTer
Rating: 4
Date: Mar 15, 2008 2:55 pm PT
Review:  I loved NWN1 so much I bought another copy so my wife could play it with me over our lan and we 
 loved playing it together. Great story, character development and best of all: it worked.
  
  Then came NWN2
  
  We have had new machines since then, both core 2 with bulging memory 
 and powerful graphics cards. The game grinds along at a very slow frame-rate, even with the options 
 turned down. But this game doesn't have to run smoothly for us to still enjoy it. We can forgive 
 this.
  
  There are wierd camera angles that make controlling your character and moving onto the next combatant 
 in a melee difficult. But given time you can get used to the camera and work out little tricks 
 for this. So this can be forgiven too.
  
  One of our machines is xp and the other vista. On the xp machine it works fine but with vista there 
 are frequent crashes to the blue screen of doom, especially when starting the game. The computer 
 reboots and NWN2 nearly always works fine on the second attempt so, more forgiveness.
  
  Setting up the multiplayer for us both was very difficult job as the manual gives scant detail 
 on how to best achieve a LAN game. We figured it out in the end though, and finally after resetting 
 the vista machine, turning down the graphics, setting and resetting the camera we were able to 
 play!
  
  The graphics are good, the story is wonderfully rich and the character development is very rewarding 
 so we did have a great time. Then the actual game stoppers came along. There are many but the killer 
 for us was when the NPCs started to turn one another into animals. That's right, your rogue will 
 disappear to be replaced by a stoat with no lock picking ability of any kind.
  
  There is a work around for this where you copy the character from an earlier saved game into your 
 current game, losing their xp and any items they may have collected. We did this and re-levelled 
 the rogue to continue playing. Several happy hours of gameplay later you come to a part of the 
 game where one of the other NPCs from your party is required. But this time there was no save game 
 with this particular NPC, so no fix and now no game. 
  
  That's right. The game has halted because there is no Bard NPC to offer to fight a tournament for 
 us because he has been turned into a weasle. Game over.
  
  This game is over 2 years old and unplayable. I'm sad to say this but don't buy this game. NWN1 
 works, this one does not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheXenolith
Rating: 4
Date: Mar 8, 2008 9:14 am PT
Review:  Neverwinter Nights 2 is disappointing as it seems like a fun game but the game's engine really 
 ruined it for me. If you don't care about frame rate or image quality and you like D&D then this 
 is the game for you. It's sad, as the game has a lot to offer but I simply can't get through the 
 performance barrier. I also do not like the necessity of having to buy the game twice to play on 
 LAN.
  
  The Good:
  
  - Massive world
  - OK cinematics
  - Decent storyline
  - Open ended
  - Great character build choices
  
  The Bad:
  
  - Show stopping frame rate 
 issues (even on powerful machines)
  - Horrible performance: image quality ratio
  - Terrible camera angles
  - Bad or terrible interface
  - Playing on LAN requires you to buy 
 2 copies of the game
  
  Play it if:
  
  - You like D&D
  - You don't care about frame rate
  - You really like Neverwinter Nights
  - You already bought 
 2 copies
  
  Don't play it if:
  
  - You don't like buying something you already own
  - You are obsessed about frame rate
  - You like pretty graphics
  - You dislike D&D
  - You 
 expect LAN play 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sfc42
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 27, 2008 7:33 pm PT
Review:  I really wanted to love Neverwinter Nights 2. I was excited when I started playing, but suddenly 
 lost all interest. Various reviews point out how great the "story" is. Really? Don't you get to 
 a point when one RPG (especially from Bioware) is just like the last one? I guess if you can actually 
 read straight forward fantasy novels (like Terry Brooks, Harry Potter) , than this can be interesting. 
 But I really don't care anymore about the Great War of So-and-So, and the terrible Wizard of Yzen 
 or something. The plots are always the same, they just change around the ridiculous fantasy names. 
 And, in the end, you are either fetching something, or killing someone. Do people actually read 
 all the books laying around in this game?? And if so, why?? Try something that is worthwhile like 
 Faulkner, or Tolstoy, or anything else.
  
  The game tries, like KOTR, to have the player make decisions that "affect the story", but they 
 never do. If you are told about the evil Goblin King terrorizing yet another boring village you've 
 stumbled into, you are going to kill that Goblin King. Maybe from your sense of duty, or maybe 
 just to get the big payment from the town, but you are going to kill the Goblin King. Or maybe, 
 just maybe, instead, you just steal something, or some other dumb way around the problem. 
  
  Half-life 2 has had a better "story" so far. I, at least, care a little for Alex Vance. 
 
  
  And then there's the battle system. I really cannot understand why every year we get a new batch 
 of games built on the AD&D system. With all that computer power, can't they come up with something 
 better than rolling dice for you?? The system is just boring now, and it's often unnecesarily hard 
 to figure out what's going on. 
  
  Anyway, if you love generic fantasy plots, and the same old battle system that's been around for, 
 like, 30 years, this is your game. Otherwise, just keep hoping someone can revive the RPG genre. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spidey608
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 21, 2008 4:34 am PT
Review:  I need to start off by telling you why I like this game, and who else I think would like it. I 
 really like this game because every now and again my friends and I play D&D, this game is based 
 on the D&D 3.5 rules. That means that you will have a familiar experience without needing to have 
 your friends around. Guess what though, online play makes it so that you and your friends can play 
 this game anyway even when you are let's say at different colleges. The other reason I love this 
 game and I think someone else would too is that I read a lot of work by R. A. Salvatore. If you 
 haven't heard of him and love fantasy work, look him up. Anyway this game lets you bring some of 
 those stories home, no not exactly but close enough. Create a character from tons of options and 
 forge your destiny.
  
  This game does have one major pitfall that I have seen, the camera angles, it can really really 
 suck, no kidding. However, no game is without a couple of flaws. Right now this game has dropped 
 down to $30 and the expansion is only $20. so I am telling you that if you like fantasy, are familiar 
 with D&D, or are just looking for a really great RPG to get your hands on, go pick up this game, 
 it won't let you down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nomad0404
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 13, 2008 2:40 am PT
Review:  This game has two many problems as an RPG for it's own good  was it ever tested one wonders.
 
  
  Lets start with the second most annoying aspect of the game, apart from the Gnome character that 
 is, the camera. It's all over the place, uncontrollable and at times, especially when leaving and 
 entering the building, you can't see anything because the camera has moved. Looking at your party's 
 legs as you leave a building is no fun at all.
  
  Now for the first, loading times  I have a reasonably quick computer with a pretty fast SATA 300 
 hard drive but the loading times are insufferable especially when you travel to a new area, so 
 the game spends ages loading in that area, walk three paces and enter a cave mouth and then the 
 game loads again  the playing time is probably more than doubled due to loading times.
  
  My next problem is the way the game handles the plot, an example of this would be an NPC being 
 in two places at the same time. You characters complete side quests but your dialog with them is 
 still the same as it was when you first met them. 
  
  The equipment is pretty cool as are the locations and the bad guys seem to be pretty good. I can 
 only remember one point where you had a major choice in the plot. The character models are ok but 
 I don't like giving characters equipment, especially helmets and not seeing them represented on 
 the paperdolls.
  
  As this is a game based on the D20 system I have to compare it to other RPGs based on the same 
 system and the two that spring to mind are the Knights of the Old Republic games and they make 
 this seem long drawn out and tiresome.
  
  Overall I can not honestly recommend this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: internetrush
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 12, 2008 10:55 pm PT
Review:  Sometimes there comes a game where people play it for hours in the single player only to find that 
 the multiplayer is so much better. This is one of those games. 
  
  You can never love a game for its ending, which is why NWN has always been great. This game, as 
 many others, has evolved beyond endings. Rather, it has a following, people that make it great 
 and expand beyond the boarders of any developer. Though this game has not had the popularity of 
 NWN1 it is still a great multiplayer experience (which is the only reason you should buy it in 
 the first place) the first person experience is not what Dungeons and Dragons was originally about. 
 You are meant to play this game with people! If you rate it any other way perhaps you are playing 
 the wrong game. 
  
  Though this is not a MMO by traditional definision as only 50 people can play on any one server 
 at any one time, and those are usually not your Sony Super Server generation either. So if your 
 looking to play with thousands then your out of luck, but if your looking for a close knit community 
 to immerse yourself in, you have found gold. 
  
  Great game, great by. KOW server and EternalX are the best NWN experience in years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Marder-I
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 5, 2008 3:20 pm PT
Review:  I was so looking forward to this game, a lot better than the first one, from what I played. But 
 my computer crashed, and I hav'nt loaded it back up since then. That camera angle was a killer 
 for me though, never really got used to it!! Time to restart this game and see what I've been missing 
 by not finishing it. I will probably be popping back to find some ints when I get to it on the 
 forum. Is there any altrnate endings, I really hope so, depending on the replies you give to certain 
 Player charactors. I will find that out as well when I finish this one, not sure when though..... 
 I always try to go for a fighter type, like a Paladin, Magic users is what I really like to play, 
 but I end up getting killed in the more critical moments of big battles. But, maybe I should start 
 out fresh and see what happens to a duel roll kind of thing. The fighter - mage could be just the 
 ticket for me. Now, if I can find the time for this RPG marathon to begin. Sorry this is'nt much 
 of a review, but I; m just trying to get my feet wet on doing these and just feeling it out, until 
 I can finish the game and give a full review finally, maybe something a bit different than the 
 usual stuff you see.
  
  Cheers
  
  Tom 
::::::

::::::
UserName: walostrife
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 2, 2008 9:32 am PT
Review:  Neverwinter Nights 2 could have been a really amazing game.
  
  It's D&D system allows you to do many more things than most games, too bad it's filled with technical 
 issues.
  
  The frame rate on a mid to high range pc with all the graphic setting on low is horrible and the 
 camera doesn't let you see anything.
  
  The difficulty is harder than I expected on normal, and one of the problems I usually encountered 
 was that if you play a spellcaster (who don't usually have very much HP) you tried to keep them 
 in the back, but when encountering bosses and scripted encounters your character is pushed forward, 
 no matter what character you have leading the party.
  
  Story: 8/10
  Sound: 8/10
  Gameplay: 10/10
  Visual: 5/10 (because of it's technical problems)
  Difficulty: medium/high
 
  I've left the score at 8/10
  
  For me, such a good game being ruined because of slowdowns and crappy camera is a waste, hope the 
 next one adresses these issues.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: alexngwl
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 2, 2008 4:02 am PT
Review:  The game was fun enough, unfortunately it was filled with bugs. For me, i don't like long winded 
 review. Here you go guys what i want to express my experience on this game:
  
  Praise on:
  1. good sound track
  2. good equipment
  3. it's forgotten realms
  
  Disgraceful:
 
  1. so so graphic (should be better if compare with others)
  2. lack of cut scene
  3. 
  
 
   endless
  4. stupid AI (non challenging)
  5. too easy
  6. not that addictive
  
  I never finish the 
 game because tons of bug prevent me from advance. So, the choice is up to you. For me, nothing 
 can beat Baldur's Gate sage. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BadMuppet
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 30, 2008 8:56 pm PT
Review:  A fun game. A lot of the reviews proclaim "oh, if you want story   combat, then this is for you".
 
  
  No. 
  
  If you've ever played Knights of the Old Republic, Jade Empire, Baldur's Gate II, or anything like 
 that, then you've probably come to know their dialogue system and such. Not to mention the fun 
 sidequests, and a lot of the time you being the diplomat rather than solving everything by killing 
 someone.
  
  In Neverwinter Nights 2, that's the outcome to EVERYTHING. So, expect a lot of fighting. 
  
 
  Don't get me wrong, I like games where I get to fight. Especially ones that have excellent character 
 development like nwn2, which makes it all-the-more-better, but all the good points of the game 
 are overshadowed by the bad.
  
  Bad:
  -Camera Angle
  -Chaotic Evil (what)
  -Choppy character models; my dwarf has holes in his eyes; the models are ugl, especially the half-races
 
  -Party AI; wowee zowee, talk about bad AI. You usually have to babysit your companions through 
 thick-and-thin. They've been with you since the start, and ain't NOBODY gonna take that away! Oh 
 man... anyway, yeah: bad AI. Really bad. I'm serious....
  -Other bad stuff
  
  Good:
  -Dialogue; like I said earlier, everything usually leads up to combat. That may be the case, but 
 they also give you TONS of options for dialogue choices. It adds to the immersioninin
  -Lots of loot to keep you wanting to mop up maps, which you usually have to do anyways
  -Some 
 good moral choices. It does it much better than KoTOR. For example: after you save a girl from 
 a cult, you can either 
  
  A) Be the dutiful type and be like "it's my duty that i save you and i wont break that vow or ill 
 be killed in a car fire"
  B) Be the... I dunno, rogue "im being payed so less go"
  C) Be the coward, I guess "im scared"
  D) Be the evil guy "grr ima kill u"
  E) Be the badass (like 
 me irl) [Knockout] "Stupid girl, you can stay here with the dead since you like them so much!"
 
  
  It has some good replayability, don't get me wrong. But most likely you'll get exhausted around 
 the third playthrough. You've probably seen and read everything. Your companions don't merit another 
 playthrough.
  
  There are two romances, for those interested. And they give you the MOST one dimensional characters 
 to romance: a druid and a paladin. Both are... are so one dimensional!
  
  Seriously, if you hear the Paladin speak one line, you'll just want to throw up.
  
  The expansion 
 for it is really fun. It gets rid of most of the bad, and adds more good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smerlus
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 26, 2008 4:43 pm PT
Review:  After over a year of having Neverwinter Nights 2 on my "Now Playing" list, I've finally beat the 
 main adventure. Once I got back into where I left off and dove into the party interaction and influence 
 system, I got engrossed in the game and decided to finish it. Despite a game ending bug that required 
 some cheat codes to fix and loading screens that tested my +4 plate mail of patience, I had an 
 enjoyable time with a game that offered a number improvements over the original.
  
  
  One thing that is a somewhat give and take improvement is the additions made to the Aurora engine 
 that Neverwinter Nights 2 uses. Overall the graphics are better than the original game's graphics 
 but Neverwinter Nights 2 appears to sport one of the most unoptimized engines around. My computer 
 runs Oblivion flawlessly on medium settings while NWN 2 chugs even on lower settings while not 
 offering the same expansive landscapes and detail. Also it seems the path-finding and collision 
 detection seems to have been overlooked in quality testing. Characters can often walk right through 
 doors or through safes while opening them and two characters charging towards each other will run 
 right through one another only to be "warped" back to a spot where they will do battle. So while 
 generally the game boasts better graphics and spell effects, there are other portions of the engine 
 that were overlooked.
  
  
  Another few problems I experienced with the engine were its camera system, the bugs and the loading. 
 The camera seems to be very loose in the one mode and extremely tight in the other mode. The looseness 
 often causes the camera just to spin around when the mouse touches the side of the screen and the 
 tight mode often gets into terrible positions when near a building or other such obstacle. The 
 loading was horrendous mostly because of the side quests which forced you to go back and forth 
 between the world maps. 
  
  
  The bugs I ran into merged two of my characters together under a single file thus freezing the 
 game when I got to the point where I needed one of the characters. The way I solved this was using 
 a bunch of console commands to pretty much get the character back minus all the equipment he had 
 been carrying. Another bug happened when my team had perished in battle but I had used an area 
 effect spell before I died. Before I could reload my game from a previous save, the game pushed 
 me through a few cutscenes and revived my characters. I guess this one was a favor for the previous 
 bug.
  
  
  However, I did say I liked the game so these mistakes weren't deal closers to me. The main draw 
 for me was the party interaction system that Obsidian worked into KOTOR 2 but improved it a bit 
 more for Neverwinter Nights 2. The only negative here is that they worked so many deep characters 
 into the party that it would take several playthroughs to flesh out each ones of them.
  
  
  I played as a chaotic evil rogue/shadow dancer that was outright rude to the nature loving 
 druid and the heroic paladin, reassuring to the Dwarf that just wanted to fight everyone and the 
 roguish tiefling and would try to be more evil than the most evil character in the party. What 
 ensued was a murder of one of the characters that got fed up with me and an epic battle at the 
 very end of the game when quite a few of the characters betrayed me. I have to reiterate on how 
 great the end is; to see that all the choices of who I stuck up for and who I treated like a 2nd 
 class citizen throughout the game come crashing down in an epic battle of betrayal and some surprising 
 decisions by other party members was something I had never experienced before. Let's just say that 
 not everyone I treated like garbage turned their back on me and some of the characters I treated 
 well had hidden motives.
  
  
  The story itself has its ups and downs but tries its best to change up gameplay almost every chapter. 
 One chapter has you scouring around for evidence of your innocence so that you can defend yourself 
 at a murder trial and there's a Keep that you take ownership of that helps you defend from an onslaught 
 in a later chapter. The story is well fleshed out with a crazy cast of characters but unfortunately 
 it also relies on a bunch of common clichs such as an ancient evil that is making its return back 
 to earth and the quest to gather pieces from an ancient artifact and other overused plot devices. 
 There are some instances where the story does surprise and break the monotony which effectively 
 makes these scenarios much more memorable.
  
  
  The gameplay has moved up to D&D 3.5 rules but remains very similar to the previous Neverwinter 
 Nights game. There are a few new character classes; a bunch of new races with their pros and cons 
 but mostly the gameplay remains unchanged. 
  
  
  Overall the voice-overs were delivered well and the music is fitting for this type of game. No 
 complaint can be made about the sound department. 
  
  
  The only other thing that springs to mind is that the difficulty seriously ramped up in the last 
 chapter. The sudden beatings and frequent reloads caused me to use almost every trick in the book 
 just to barely come out on top. I spent the first 2/3 of the game thinking I was safely ahead of 
 the curve in almost every situation only to have that all come crashing down. The fix for this 
 was to take a more proactive approach to assigning gear, spells and AI habits to my fellow team 
 members and micromanaging them a little more than I wanted to. This might say something about the 
 AI that felt adequate for most of the game but did make some goofs that ended in dead characters. 
 The characters that needed the most babysitting happened to be spell casters. 
  
  
  The Neverwinter Nights games are known for their constant improvements through mods and expansion 
 packs and it seems the sequel is not very different. However Neverwinter Nights 2 is the better 
 initial outing of the series
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spoonoop
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 9, 2008 11:08 am PT
Review:  If your looking for a decent RPG to play, then NWN2 may be worth your while. I tend to enjoy hack 
 and slash RPG's such as Dungeon Siege and Diablo 2. This is no hack and slash RPG, but it's still 
 fun. The most interesting thing about the game is the choices you make. There are basically two 
 routs, good and evil, and your decisions affect how the game progresses. So far the story isn't 
 all that engaging, and sometimes I just want to skip through the dialog just so I can find something 
 to fight. I have not finished the game yet, but I believe I've played enough to write a review. 
 So my opinion about the story and outcome of the game could change because honestly I don't know 
 how it ends.
  
  One thing thats disappointing is that the world isn't connected. When your ready to move on to 
 another area you are taken to a map, then you choose the location to automatically travel to. This 
 takes away a major aspect of any RPG, exploration. Instead of physically traveling from point A 
 to point B, you just auto-travel to point B by selecting it, and occasionally you will "encounter 
 something" during the map transition, which usually involves an optional side quest, which are 
 usually very short. The maps are also very small and linear.
  
  Now some positive things. I enjoy the combat, it keeps me interested. There are many skills and 
 many different ways to customize your character. Lots of different weapons and armor contribute 
 to this as well. Even though the main plot of the story seems kind of dull so far, I still like 
 reading the dialog and following whats happening. Even though I prefer hack and slash combat oriented 
 RPG's, this has been a nice change. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dumblor
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 7, 2008 9:28 am PT
Review:  Neverwinter Nights was very good game , as much as Baldur's Gate and Icewind Dale. Now , we have 
 it's sequel on our hands. Maybe it's the best Obsidian can give us. Maybe it's the best anyone 
 can give us. But all roses have spikes.
  
  Neverwinter Nights 2 is set , as it's prequel , in world of Forgotten Realms. It uses D&D 3.5 rulebook 
 , it's more ballanced version of 3.0 , wich was used in the original Neverwinter Nights. The story 
 of the game is layed years or so after the war beetwen Luskan (pirate city , ruled by wizards of 
 sorts) and Neverwinter. A small village of West Harbor is attacked by stinky grey dwarves , after 
 a village fair of some sort , and protagonist must defend it. It seems that dwarves were looking 
 of some sort of powerful item made of silver. In order to not attract them to the village anymore 
 , you must take the item and bring it to neverwinter , so that some sort of allmighty wizard could 
 examine it (second time) . I don't want to ruin the game , so let's keep the story for you to explore.
 
  
  Neverwinter Nights , as many RPG's , let's you create a character at first. There are many races 
 , though there are not so much faces and haircut's as you would wish. You can also choose height 
 (in later version) and weight , hair color and skin color. Elves will be disapointed , as they 
 will have to be cooper-skins , or yellow-skins (I played as an elf , and was annoyed because of 
 his gipsy look at first.) , if you don't play as half-elf (with faces taken directly from current 
 Michael Jackon (sad he made that ; ( ) , or as Drow a. k. a. Dark Elves. All classes are kept from 
 previous game , except for prestige classes. Some are removed , some are added. Also , game is 
 more ballanced. Rangers are much more powerful (as I was in both games) than in the previous game 
 , though archer rangers are still weak , two-handed might stand a chance against a goblin or two.
 
  
  Graphics are good , not too good though. The game lacks optimization. And it lacks it VERY MUCH. 
 I remember when I tried to play it with my old video card..... Now I bought new , but still lags 
 visit me from time to time (ussually in mortal combat (not the game , the combat in-the-game :) ) . 
 Also , it could use bloom more (I never get enough of it :) ) , or atleast make a slider to adjust 
 it.
  
  The game controls are as allways. Except for the camera. If you update your game , you will get 
 two choises of camera. Character and Strategic. If you're the same old D&D and Baldurs Gate fan 
 and a real die-hard , looking for more butts to kick , then you will choose the strategic. Else 
 , you can remain with the character camera (it's default) , witch is so much like in World of Warcraft 
 , or Hellgate : London.
  
  Sounds are good as allways , mostly from the original , though still there are unvoiced dialogues. 
 Music is fine to me , though not too good.
  
  What destroys most of the game fun ? Bugs. There are a lot of 'em. They're as bad as coakroaches 
 and as many as ants. Not to mention bugs in "everyday life" , you will also may stuck in dialogue 
 or cutscene. I stuck on one. I left the game. Later , I replayed , and the bug was abscent. Good 
 for me , I guess :) .
  
  What gives most of the game are choices. You wil get many moral choises in the game. You can play 
 as an evil Warlock , or as a good Cleric. Honorable fighter or sneaky thief. You can be your robin 
 hood or Sir Lancelot. Be what you want. Do what you want. But ... Don't step out of the house. 
 The game offers a lot of freedom , but it's also (still) linear. When you reach next act , there's 
 no way back. You can't go on hunts for random creatures in random caves like in Oblivion or Morrowind. 
 But I still think that Bioware and Obsidian creates pure RPG's , because you really get a role 
 ,witch you can play as much as you luck , and how you want.
  
  As you travel with your companions , you will gain or loose your influence with them. Some may 
 even leave you or join the enemy , if your influence is too low. Some may give you a warm bed in 
 night if you get high influence in one of oposite sex companions. Though there are only one for 
 each gender. I was happy with choice you get if you're man. Don't know about the female gamers 
 out there , 'cause , in my opinion , they got bad choice (withch resulted in mod "Bishop romance" 
 ( I think) ) .
  
  So overall , Neverwinter Nights is amazing , but the bugs ruin it. So be sure to check for the 
 new patch ! And be sure to try multi-player. Special thanks to Obsidian and Bioware :) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: changbctim
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 4, 2008 11:56 pm PT
Review:  I purchased this game with high anticipation. I have previously played and enjoyed other D and 
 D RPG including Baldur's Gate and Icewind Dale. 
  
  What a disappointment it turned out to be... the boring and very very linear storyline is a pain 
 to trudge through. The are some nice twist but the overall plot is dall and uninspiring.
  
  The characters are insipid and one dimensional. The graphics engine are very taxing on the CPU 
 and GPU - rendering of environment looks good but the characters has the feel of mannikins.
  
  It maybe worth buying for the fan made modules but I have not tried any of those yet. 
  
 
  I had more fun playing Baldur's Gate all over again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: plyzorba1
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 3, 2008 10:23 am PT
Review:  This game is a game worth playing, but because of some serious camera problems it just isn`t a 
 must have game. The history is very exiting and this is what makes you want to play and try to 
 ignore the horrible camera. The story begins when your village is under attack, and after defending 
 it you are told that the enemies that attacked the village was after a silver shard. And from there 
 on you begin your travels around the world. 
  The level system is great and since you have many classes to choose, you will probably start a 
 new game more than once. 
  the battle system is fair enough. You hit an enemy and he hits you back. But as you progress in 
 the game and you have some companions with you the fighting gets more intense and you must start 
 to use your head. 
  What ruins this game completely is the lousy camera and control. to attack an enemy you must press 
 on him, but if you misses and hit the ground the character believes you want him to go there, and 
 then the camera starts moving, and you loose sight of your enemy. This is but one annoying things 
 about this camera. 
  But despite the horrible camera and a bit dumb companions Neverwinter Nights 2 is a good game that 
 will consume many hours of your time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WingofDeath
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 29, 2007 1:44 am PT
Review:  Too many simple game-play issues make an otherwise enjoyable game extremely troublesome. And thats 
 with the patch.
  
  Im missing an NPC to start off with. My Dwarf just straight up vanished when i went from the Skymirror 
 to Neverwinter. Conversations often loop or you need to ask them things you already know and you 
 seem to end up repeating yourself. 
  
  Apparently there's an option to skip the conversation and write it straight to your journal. Although 
 the first time i used that my game crashed and i lost 4 hours of game play. There shouldn't be 
 any problems with the game considering it came out last year. Maybe its just me because it looks 
 like everyone else has enjoyed it. But even if it thats true, its still inexcusable.
  
  Now I have to wait on a response from Atari about my missing dwarf, because im at a part where 
 his interjection leads me to the next part of the story. And since he currently doesnt exist there 
 is no interjection, thus going forward is impossible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: klmillis
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 27, 2007 8:39 pm PT
Review:  It should be noted that this game's "picture" cut scenes are, in my opinion, a complete let down. 
 Don't get me wrong, the game has a spectacular story, and is inherently fulfilling, but for the 
 hours of gameplay invested, the finale flopped. Sure it tied up all the loose ends I was interested 
 in, but the medium it used was pathetic. Only a few brief 'pictures' with a lame voice over. Seriously, 
 I have no idea who did the voice for the ending, it sure wasn't familiar, or have any empotion 
 to it. 
  
  It seems as though BioWare ran out of time and just tried to get whatever content they could to 
 barely stitch up their game. If those pictures needed to be used, I would have rather seen some 
 in-game unrendered "story book" ending, in which Nasher or another NPC recounted the tale of the 
 history following the epic battle with snapshots sewn in.
  
  Here's a lesson for anyone who will listen. In life, relationships, stories, music... almost any 
 facet of our existence... begin well, and end well. In this case, a flashy mouth-watering introduction 
 begs for an equally spectacular finish. In the end, this game missed the mark disastrously.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: katana18
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 26, 2007 5:16 am PT
Review:  I am neither a fanboy nor a critic of the D&D system of the Neverwinter Nights series. But..
  
  But there's not much satisfaction to be gained from this particular title. I bought my copy 
 of Neverwinter Nights 2 a little late, just after the Mask of the Betrayer expansion was released. 
 Oh by the way, this is my first written review after 3 years of devoted reading to Gamespot, so 
 bear with me.
  
  I loaded up the game, updated it, and patched every hole before I jumped straight into it. It was 
 by no means bad. And from the introduction all the way to the first few conversations you make, 
 there is plenty of familiarity if you've played the original Neverwinter Nights and all its expansions, 
 Star Wars: KoTOR and KoTOR 2, all of which I've delightfully played at least 2 times over. Each. 
 So it goes without saying that I'm very much familiar with D&D, although I have never played the 
 actual pen and paper stuff, or touched anything before Neverwinter Nights 1.
  
  So, I began by comparing NWN2 against these 3 older titles and started playing. It all played out 
 well enough. I wasn't impressed when I saw houses that had doors without interactions, unlike the 
 previous games, and other than special instances, the dialouge was in the old fashion text box 
 like NWN1.
  
  This striked me as odd, and maybe even laziness on the designers part. They had KoTOR and KoTOR 
 2 under their belt, and could have easily assembled fully voiced dialouges, hence making a much 
 more enjoyable cinematic gameplay. Instead, we got certain glimpses of KoTOR styled dialouges and 
 beautiful cutscenes.
  
  The main fault in this game is not the story, audio, or graphics. The story is good, but not a 
 bestseller. The audio is good, but not in the league of Oblivion. And the graphics are recent, 
 but not cutting edge. Of course, it goes without saying that the D&D mechanics have been flawlessly 
 executed.
  
  The main fault lies with the gameplay. Before the most recent patches that limited the camera moods 
 to a strategic (fully zoomed-out) , and character (close third person like KoTOR) , there were 4 
 wildly different modes for the camera. None worked without constant attention. However the team 
 have since fixed this and I won't comment further on it.
  
  The more glaring gameplay flaw is in the mode of playing. NWN2 seems like it's in a cross between 
 NWN1 and KoTOR, and unable to make up its mind which gameplay style it wants to use. The devs have 
 made everyone except main quest characters and henchmen have boring and pointless dialouge. The 
 side quests are nowhere as colorful or creative as the first game. And the design of the world 
 is such that it's as small as KoTOR, but employs the clunky interface of NWN.
  
  For this reason, I would be hard pressed to recommend this game to anyone. So those of you who 
 are craving your next RPG adventure, I suggest you replay the entire Oblivion, or better yet, invest 
 in some awesome mods for the classic (but defintely better-than-NWN2) KoTOR. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TazmanianD
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 25, 2007 1:05 pm PT
Review:  Neverwinter Nights 2 is definitely better than the original game. The interface and party system 
 underwent major overhauls that help make for a better game. But the game still feels uninspired 
 and on the dry side.
  
  The party system in the original game was failrly weak. In NWN2, the system is much more like you'd 
 find in a typical RPG. You've got full control over all of the members in your party and you can 
 have up to four (or five depending on where in the game) party members at any one time. You've 
 got full control over their inventories and skills and how they level up.
  
  In a departure from most RPGs and all the previous Bioware games, NWN2 adopted an experience point 
 system that's a lot like KotOR. Your NPCs don't get experience points. They always have the same 
 experience points (and thus the same level) as your character. You don't need to worry about keep 
 a small number of characters in your party to avoid dividing up the xps. Also, if a character is 
 not currently in your party and you swap him in later, they will immediately jump up to your experience 
 level. Sometimes, if you haven't played with the character for a while, you'll have numerous level-ups 
 for the character. You don't have to worry about picking favorites and leaving the other characters 
 too weak to use later.
  
  The interface is also dramatically different. There's no more radial menu. The general idea is 
 that you should be able to perform any action with one or two mouse or keypresses. A single click 
 will get you access to all of your skills or magic abilities. You can also move around the numerous 
 skill, inventory and ability panels or remove the ones you don't want. The game also adds a hotkey 
 bar where you can add up to 12 skills, spells or usuable items. You can even add stack a weapon 
 and a shield so you can quickly switch from ranged to melee combat. You can also create up to 10 
 hotkeys bars giving you 120 slots which is total overkill and laughable.
  
  There are a few annoying things missing from the interface that a pretty basic and you'd think 
 they would have put them in. One is the ability to multi-select characters. You can't give instructions 
 to all of your characters at once. If you want your entire party to attack a particular enemy, 
 you have to issue instructions to each one individually.
  
  The game also puts more emphasis on your non-combat skills. Things like persuasion, intimidation, 
 intelligence, etc, have lots of opportunities to affect conversations. You can earn additional 
 experience points by following the right conversions and sometimes you can even avoid entire battles.
 
  
  The camera control is also dramatically different. There are four different modes (each with a 
 number of options) that define how the camera works. You can pick a typical overhead view that 
 pans like the original game. You can pick a chase camera or a moveable third person, over-the-shoulder 
 camera. You can get the game in a mode that's almost like a first/third person shooter, but it 
 doesn't quite get there. There's quite a lot of flexibility and anyone should be able to find something 
 that works for them. I found that even though I was happy with the modes, I never did find the 
 right settings where everything just clicked and it felt perfect.
  
  My biggest complaint with the game is that the content isn't written terribly well. The game doesn't 
 really pull you into the story and compel you to keep playing. The original game suffered from 
 this as well. The game is almost entirely linear. There are a number of side quests, but most of 
 them you'll complete automatically as you complete the main quest. The individual areas also feel 
 sparse and you can't escape the feeling you're playing a game. You'll enter the city of Neverwinter 
 and find quite a number of openable (but locked) doors throughout the city. Unfortunately, you 
 can't go in any of them. They'll each open up one by one as the appropriate moment in the quest 
 line progresses. Not very realistic. All-in-all, I couldn't help by feel that that game was just 
 a bit dry.
  
  One interesting part of the game is the keep. Late in the game, you acquire a keep that you can 
 control. You get to repair and build it over time. You get to hire soldiers, send them on missions 
 and decide how to handle your neighboring lands. It's relatively interesting, but unfortunately 
 you get the keep quite late in the game. If you could get it earlier and have it as a backdrop 
 for the whole game, that would have made it more interesting; adding it too late was a mistake 
 in my opinion.
  
  One big plus for the game is that it is long. This is not a cheap game that'll last for a few hours. 
 The main quest line is one of the longest I've ever played and doesn't leave you feeling disappointed. 
 The soundtrack is also pretty good with over three hours of unique music.
  
  An odd complaint I have about the game is that there are too many unique and interesting items. 
 I usually complain that games have too little and are filled with boring items that are nothing 
 more than stats. Baldur's Gate is a great example of interesting items. The game mostly has the 
 boring and plain stuff, but there's a good amount of interesting, unique items with cool stories 
 behind them. NWN2 went too far. Toward the end of the game, almost every item you find seems to 
 be an expensive, powerful item - far more than you can use and even more than you can sell. At 
 some point, you lose interest and don't care about the new armor or sword you just found.
  
  The graphics are okay. They are right about where you'd expect them to be but aren't anything 
 new and exciting. The areas have a bit of a constrained feeling to them where you can't wander 
 off the path and into the surrounding area - a bit like KotOR or Fable - and the visuals fade off 
 in the distance instead of providing long range viewing like Oblivion or Gothic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ihminen
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 15, 2007 3:05 am PT
Review:  First of all the story was amazing, they deleted the epic levels which was good, because they ruined 
 the game. More prestiques and the two bonus prestiques were nice. Voice acting was brilliant espicially 
 Sand. Reminded me of the great Baldur's Gate 2 Shadows Of Amn. What can i say, better than previous, 
 will play more with new characters, story has many great events and varies if your good or evil. 
 Overall, its a very good game but theres two flaws, the requirements and the never ending bugs, 
 but they will fix them. The toolset was better too, i liked the height map system, better to make 
 mountains and terrain. The multiplayer is okay if you just take 1-3 buddies with you so you wont 
 encounter the ones who hack, and its always better to play in a friendly group. Im glad Obsidian 
 didnt go KOTOR on this like last time when they took a BioWare game and made their on 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slitherdude
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 12, 2007 7:18 pm PT
Review:  
  Neverwinter Nights II is a great sequel to the franchise. Everything looks improved. The plot is 
 deeper, with more twists and elements that differentiates it from the cut-and-dried and usual good 
 vs. evil theme that permeates the genre. The visuals look good enough, albeit a bit shortchanged, 
 considering the system resources it demands. The script is fun, which helps a lot in propelling 
 the plot. Even the items you get are more varied, more powerful, compared to the original Neverwinter 
 game.
  
  NWN2 plays with the usual staples of the genre, but does it well enough not to be boring. There 
 is a great evil that puts all creation/faerun/existence in danger. You play a commoner (usually 
 in a backwater village or somewhere just as obscure) who suddenly finds out that there is more 
 to his history than meets the eye, and thus ends up as the sole hope of defeating the said monster. 
 And yeah -- there is a sword. In games like these, there is ALWAYS a sword.
  
  Cliched plot devices notwithstanding, NWN2 is a fun game. D&D enthusiasts will love how faithful 
 the game is to its roots; while casual gamers won't be ostracized even if they don't know what's 
 a 'saving throw'. More means better, and it's an easy enough concept to pick up. 
  
  The increased number of companions you'll have with you is also a big plus. The ability to switch 
 characters frees the player from getting stuck with one class (or so) for the whole game. The AI 
 is generally solid -- you normally wouldn't have to worry whether your companions are doing their 
 jobs. There are some glitches here, but the interactions and added depth the companions contribute 
 is a definite double plus.
  
  Neverwinter Nights 2 has many offerings that make it a good game. There's a lot of action and even 
 political intrigue. There's a whole gamut of Feats that you'd be raring to add to your character. 
 The prestige classes give players something to look forward to, rather than just mindlessly leveling 
 up. All in all, it's a good game... it's just not Diablo III.
  
  RPG players have been salivating over the thought of the next Diablo iteration -- or a game who 
 could at least be just as great and engaging. There are some baseline elements there that would 
 have done wonders to NWN2 if they incorporated it. Take the enemies, for example. Fighting bladelings 
 and githyanki and bandits get boring after a few scenarios. And none of them genuinely prove a 
 challenge. Even the final boss -- the King of Shadows himself -- is just one big fella you know 
 you'll eventually topple. None of the adversaries were able to slap our heads to attention and 
 curdle the blood. You want an engaging game? Give us an enemy that will haunt us even in our dreams.
 
  
  Personally, I loved the runes and gems and all the item customization available in the Diablo 2 
 game. Part of the RPG charm, after all, is getting the shiniest weapon available -- and then getting 
 the whole set, with improvements to boot. 
  
  As I've said, on its own, NWN 2 is a good sequel. Let's just hope Mask of the Betrayer can offer 
 more.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: keppb2001
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 11, 2007 9:05 pm PT
Review:  NWN was good this one is good but as the others have posted whats up with the bugs ElderScrolls 
 IV way better. The camera angles were rough and the sound track wasnt that good. Character choice 
 were fair but should have allowed you to prestige all characters you were traveling with also. 
 The story line was well thought out and close up graphics were fine but the camera stunk period!!! 
 Not willing to chance Mask of the Betrayer after being Betrayed here. Maybe if they get better 
 reviews here I will try it but the level of frustaration with NWN@ just kept growing and growing. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zacho123456
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 10, 2007 7:13 pm PT
Review:  Could be a fun game if the bugs were fixed.
  Camera is hard tocontrol, party members get stuck on objects, and 
  worst of all, after about 
 20 hours of gameplay, the game crashed and will
  not load one area, Blacklake.
  Of course, this is the area that I have to go to in order to advance the plot.
  I have Vista, 
 so this could be related to that, but from searching internet forums, it appears that this is a 
 very common problem, although it usually happens in a different area.
  Unbelievably, KOTOR I, which is an older game is superior in every way, including story, dialogue 
 and technical issues. At least I could finish it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_hunger
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 8, 2007 9:21 pm PT
Review:  I waited a year before picking up this game and the expansion, Mask of the Betrayer. Since the 
 initial release in 2006 had technical issues and other problems, I decided to get this game only 
 after the expansion came out and received good reviews (and supposedly fixed bugs and optimization 
 problems) . Unfortunately, not all is well with this game, even a year after release and the new 
 expansion pack. It has a better single-player campaign than the first Neverwinter Nights, but is 
 still just a cut above mediocre. If you are looking for the next Baldur's Gate-style epic, definitely 
 don't look here. However, with some luck, some good player-made modules might be produced with 
 the toolset that comes with the game.
  
  Gameplay: Story-wise, this is a run-of-the-mill roleplaying game (RPG) . Your character rises from 
 rags to riches in search of his/her life's meaning and in search of the bad guy that needs to be 
 vanquished. The game is based on the 3.5 Dungeon & Dragons rules and offers a lot of customization 
 options for race, class, skills, feats, etc. There is an awful lot of loot to be found, bought, 
 and custom-made. Unlike the first game, you actually have a party to control, which is both good 
 and bad. The good part is that your party members have personalities and make the adventuring a 
 bit more colorful. The bad, well, where should I start: pathfinding issues, not-too-efficient use 
 of spells, suddenly vanishing party members, some suicidal behavior, and so on. You can let the 
 AI control the party, but this works well only early on. Toward the end of the game, you'll need 
 to micromanage each spell and sword swing. It's not as tedious as it sounds if you ever played 
 classic games like Baldur's Gate. But none of the possible 10 or so party members that you can 
 have around come close to the hilarity of a Boo & Minsc or the seductive intrigue of a Viconia 
 from Baldur's Gate 2. 
  
  Generally, the pieces come together fairly well in this game. The inventory system and journal 
 are decent, as is the interface. The camera can be annoying largely because it never seems to face 
 in the right direction when you enter a new area. That is, sometimes north will be toward the right 
 side of the screen or toward the left, forcing you to swing the camera around to match the direction 
 of the map. You'll get used to it, but you shouldn't have to. A few things I really liked were 
 the number of scripted events, the save system (none of that checkpoint stuff; you can save anywhere) , 
 and the death system (no one in your party actually dies unless everyone goes down in a fight) . 
 But the things that I really didn't like were prominent as well, mostly involving the campaign 
 which was about twice as long as it should have been. There are a lot of busy-work quests in the 
 game that add absolutely nothing to the story. Chapter 1 (there are 3 in all) is the worst in this 
 regard, but monotonous chores and a somewhat nonsensical narrative plague the game throughout. 
 There is about 60-80 hours of gameplay here if you try to do everything. A tighter, more compelling 
 story could have been told in half that time.
  
  Graphics: The game looks good, but certainly not great. With the patches and the expansion installed, 
 I didn't notice any framerate problems on my mid-range computer, although the game sometimes did 
 not load all of the textures in each area. Character models, monsters, and terrain are all convincing, 
 and spell effects look particularly good. There are night & day cycles that make the game a bit 
 immersive, though it is hard to get too immersed in a game that is best played from a high overhead 
 perspective and that requires constant monkeying with the camera.
  
  Sound: The music was great. I wouldn't mine actually owning a few of the tracks. The voice acting 
 ranged from decent to good, but it was the usual RPG fare of Scottish-accented dwarves, English-accented 
 elves, deep-throated demons, and the occasionally whiny acolyte magician (always with an American 
 accent) . Sound effects for spells and other things were appropriate.
  
  Technical Issue/Documentation: The game comes with a rather lengthy manual, which is quite helpful. 
 It also has a clever tutorial at the beginning. Whether you get it alone or with the expansion, 
 prepare for up to a 30-minute install which includes downloading some big patches. The game was 
 rock-solid stable for about the first 30 hours of gameplay. Then the crashes started. According 
 to posts at the official website, people are still have a variety of problems with this game, even 
 after all the patches. My issues involved the game refusing to load new area and crashing during 
 transitions. The first time this occurred (while leaving Ammon Jerro's haven) , I was able to find 
 a workaround solution on the internet. The second time (at Crossroad Keep in chapter 3) there was 
 just nothing that could be found to get me around this. I never got to finish the game. This was 
 very frustrating and more than likely will keep me from buying another game by this developer. 
 In fact, I was so disgusted by this problem that I sold both the game and the expansion on eBay. 
 I had really had enough of the main quest after 50+ hours.
  
  Value/Recommendation: If you like D&D-style roleplaying games, this might be worth your while at 
 the current price ($20) . However, be sure to patch it and be willing to deal with the game's remaining 
 technical issues. This is really not a good value unless you are going to play player-made modules 
 and/or play online. As with the first game, the single-player campaign, while long and with a few 
 high points, is largely unremarkable (and buggy) and there are better RPGs available. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rechact
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 28, 2007 3:37 pm PT
Review:  Obsidian's Neverwinter Nights 2 follows Bioware's hugely successful and critically acclaimed RPG 
 Neverwinter Nights. The second instalment brings back all of the best elements of the first, updates 
 the system, and adds loads of bells and whistles to the successful format. Although it doesn't 
 break any new ground in the long-running Dungeons and Dragons RPG genre, it stands as a high-point 
 within it. 
  Neverwinter Nights 2 employs the Dungeons and Dragons 3.5 rule set. For the uninitiated, this means 
 that you'll build a main character, choosing from nine base classes and myriad races and sub-races. 
 Your character will be unleashed on the world to follow an epic unfolding tale that will take you 
 from level one to the level cap of twenty and through three extensive acts. On your journeys you'll 
 encounter other characters that will join your party and compliment your skill set. Unlike the 
 first Neverwinter Nights, you can have up to four other party members at a time, and each is fully 
 controllable by the player. 
  You'll gain experience towards level ups as you kill enemies and complete quests. When you reach 
 a level up, you can access the level up screen and raise skills, gain feats and spells, as well 
 as your main attributes. You can also take on another base class level, or choose from a handful 
 of new prestige classes added to the game, which give the player new abilities but will require 
 that various prerequisites be met. 
  The rule-set may be a stumbling block for some at first. The system can appear as a complicated 
 mass of statistics and numbers for each of your characters. There are hundreds of feats, special 
 abilities and spells that characters can get as they rise in level, and knowing how to properly 
 build your character at a level up can become difficult, and may require some reading and planning 
 if you aren't familiar with D&D.
  Neverwinter Nights 2 has an excellent story line that is far more engrossing than that of the previous 
 instalment. There are a few lulls in the pace, but for the most part, the epic story will drive 
 you to complete what needs to be done for the good of the world you'll find yourself in. The important 
 scenes and conversations are excellently voice-acted and you'll find many of your party members 
 interacting in ways you might not expect. They'll often bicker with each other or throw in advice 
 on the situation consistent with their individual personalities. This is impressive since you'll 
 gain a stable of potential party members, but you'll only be able to have four with you at a time, 
 entirely at your discretion. Party members will also often have back stories that are slowly revealed, 
 or may have optional quests they may ask you to undertake on their behalf. Many of the character's 
 stories do seem to fade out by the third act though, as though rushed and unfinished. Nonetheless, 
 they are a thoroughly enjoyable addition.
  The graphics have been updated in the new Neverwinter. On an incredibly fast PC, they will appear 
 excellent with detailed textures and facial expressions on each character. For those of us with 
 a less-than-stellar PC however, one can expect to have to play the game on low settings or face 
 a low frame-rate. The system requirements are higher than they probably should be for the game's 
 graphics. It still doesn't look as good as Oblivion, which has lower system requirements than Neverwinter 
 Nights 2. During cut-scene close ups, there is also some notably clipping problems, but these are 
 fairly easily to look past. Despite these flaws, the graphics update is a welcome change.
  The sound in the game is excellent. The score is powerful and immersive, and the voice acting and 
 character sounds are very well done, even if some have been copied from the original Neverwinter 
 Nights. Other than a few occasional hiccups in sound, it is beautifully integrated into the game. 
 
  Among the few flaws in the game is the camera. The camera can be moved by the player, but it will 
 require constant attention in order to make the game playable. While having a ground chase-cam 
 may give some cool angles, it is wholly impractical for playing the game. For the most part, you'll 
 have to keep it at a zoomed-out top down angle. But even then, you'll be spinning the camera and 
 moving it constantly to see what you need to see. This will likely be annoying at first, but eventually 
 it will become second nature. The interface is also a little clunky, with drop-down menus instead 
 of the radial menus from the first Neverwinter. You have a bar on which to add special abilities, 
 but using it while in active combat can be frustrating. You'll find that pausing the game constantly 
 to issue commands is the only way to manage a fight properly. This makes sense, since tabletop 
 D&D is a turn-based game. The Neverwinter Nights games may seem real time, but each of your characters 
 waits out their six second turn before performing actions. In this regard, pausing the game may 
 seem to break the flow of combat, but it is necessary to be successful in the harder fights.
  There are also a number of bugs in the game. In the next few patches most of these should be ironed 
 out, but make sure you save frequently, and use many save slots to avoid having to backtrack far 
 should you encounter a game-ending bug. These bugs make the game seem a little rushed and unpolished, 
 which, by the loss of some expected features and storyline, it probably is. 
  Combined, all of this makes an impressive single player experience worthy of any RPG player. But 
 this is only half of what comes in the box when you buy it. The other half, and to some, the most 
 important aspect is the vast toolset that will allow you to build and manage your own online campaigns. 
 The tool set is immense, and with some basic scripting knowledge, you'll be able to build persistent 
 online campaigns and worlds with many players. This is where the game truly shines, and makes it 
 last far longer than the single-player campaign. Whether you build your own modules or play the 
 multitude of excellent ones being built by the community, you'll be able to play new content for 
 years. If this sort of player community interests you, you'll likely have no end of fun with the 
 game.
  Everything considered, Neverwinter Nights 2 is an excellent purchase for any computer RPG fan. 
 If you're a D&D fan, this is the truest single-player D&D experience available. It lives up to 
 the legacy of great games like Baldur's Gate, Torment, and Fallout in its gameplay, and it can 
 keep you entertained for months. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shatter28
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 27, 2007 3:28 am PT
Review:  Well, I haven't finished NWN2 yet, one reason is that I decided to give up on my rogue character 
 because I wanted to play a wizard afterall. The other reason is i'm now stopped completely by the 
 bugs. Which marred the progression with the rogue as well, but never completely stopped it.
  
  I don't think ever in my 30 years of existence I have played a game more bugged than this one, 
 it's very sad indeed.
  
  For me the game tends to chrash on level transitions, especially those towards new areas you've 
 not seen before and that are critical to the main story, one year after its release and hitting 
 v.1.10, this is pathetic and disgraceful.
  
  Well, on to the content of the game, which by and large is great. It's obvious a great deal of 
 effort went into the production. There is an enormous amount of voice acting and cut scenes; there 
 is a lot of story here. The story will keep pulling you into the game, although it can't completely 
 avoid feeling familiar as we've seen and heard so much of Faerun in other games.
  
  Gameplay is frankly a little disappointing. Even though you can now bring along 3 companions (4 
 later on) that isn't up to other DnD game standards, and it is not enough to give you a well rounded 
 party. The game's battles are simply too easy for the most part, even on "hardcore" settings. Note 
 that that is with companions on "puppet" mode, because the party AI is a wasted effort.
  
  I can't help but feel that the 3.5 edition ruleset is becoming quantity over quality with the plethora 
 of new classes.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anofalye
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 25, 2007 9:30 am PT
Review:  Let's be honest, the cameras view are totally broken and annoying. But, they are manageable. Once 
 you get past these, you eventually forget everything about them and just manage perfectly. It seems 
 to me as if the game was developped by 10 teams with little communications between them, but... it 
 is bearable even if not desirable.
  
  The keep building is a mini game in itself, and a rather fun one.
  
  The characters are developped 
 and interesting.
  
  The amount of classes you can play is amazing.
  
  The D&D rules are respected, unlike in DDO where the spirit behind some rules are just betrayed.
 
  
  Speaking of spirits... the spirit-meter in the expansion ruins it all IMO, so, avoid the expansion 
 and stick happily with the game.
  
  I play it twice soo far, and I will prolly replay it again. (in a year or more, but still) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkSiderOne
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 22, 2007 6:37 pm PT
Review:  Everything is good about this game except the CAMERA FUNCTION. After all the updates & no matter 
 how you adjust the camera settings it still somehow very hard to get it function properly.
  
  I've played the original NWN & don't recall having any trouble with the CAMERA FUNCTION.
 
  
  This game would have gotten an 8 or higher if they didn't mess up this so much... to the point where 
 it's annoying.
  
  It's a bit harsh to give it a 5 but I think it deserves it because while everything else story, 
 graphics, sound, & etc. are good it doesn't help when the camera acting like it has a life of its 
 own. One more thing that bothers me is when I alt-tab usually the game crashes. Most other PC games 
 I've played never crashed when I alt-tab.
  
  If you can deal with the bad camera & a few bugs in this game then other aspects of the game can 
 be fun. I wouldn't suggest this game unless you're a hardcore NWN fan.
  
  Even with all of this I did finish the game in single player mode & able to enjoy the movie-like 
 style of story telling just like many other Bioware games.... just not sure why NWN2 got these problems 
 that don't seem to have in their other titles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monster_limo
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 21, 2007 5:09 am PT
Review:  I recently replayed through Neverwinter Nights 1 before the sequel was released and I wish I hadn't. 
 The original game was smooth, easy and was a pleasure to play.
  
  So now we come to the 2nd game. Improved graphics... yes, enhanced rebuilt engine... I don't think 
 so.
  
  When i struggle to install and patch a game to the current version then that game starts to come 
 down in ratings in my eyes. Maybe you installed it first time, updated without a hitch, but I am 
 still yet to play the latest version since I bought the game a year ago and that really bugs me.
 
  
  I am giving a nice 6/10 rating as I am a regular reader of the oblivion forum and I know that they 
 have put alot of effort into correcting the game, but sadly it hasn't helped me.
  
  Maybe I didn't install correctly, but after 10 clean installs, tonnes of hard drive space and using 
 the self installer and downloading different patches from around the net I have been unsuccessful 
 in updating the game.
  
  Right, so now all those install problems are out of the way I did play through a large portion 
 of the game and I did like variety of classes and races much like the original. The outdoor scenery 
 is moody but well textured, although the lighting is strange and can be quite dark at times. The 
 controls and general UI have taken a step back instead of building on what made the previous game 
 an easy game to use. It can be fiddly at time, but with a little time it becomes less obstrusive.
 
  
  The mouse clicking can be slightly annoying, when the character is running and you click an object 
 to search along the way it may take a couple of clicks to stop and search, although by that time 
 your character has passed the item.
  
  On a whole I was very disapointed with this game, but I hear that the expansion 'Mask of the Betrayer' 
 is a breeze to install so I may return to this review and give it a nice thumbs up next year.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: macmert
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 2:31 am PT
Review:  The rpg gaming really took a dive and mutated to hack n slash after the masterpiece Baldur's Gate 
 series but NWN and NWN2 saves the day...
  
  I will be brief the graphics are good real good the party you form is quite fun especially the 
 dwarf's conversations are really funny (Ask him about the monks hehe :) ) the NPCs in your party 
 interacts well, not real deal like the Baldurs Gate (You and Boo and I, Hamsters and Rangers everywhere! 
 Rejoice!!! Squeak:) ) 
  
  The games xp and lvl advance is good you dont need to kill every little monster to gain xp and 
 lvl sometimes you need to use your mind to overcome the obstacles and the game gives you xp for 
 that too which is good so it kinda feels you play with a real DM (Pen and Paper Game;) ) which was 
 really well placed in Vampire the Masquerade : Bloodlines.
  
  The prestige classes are quite well placed except you dont have a good prestige class for mage 
 classes you need to multiclass for having a good prestige class, but rogue has incredible prestige 
 classes like the shadow dancer, Shadowthief of Amn and Assassin... Still there is no Bladesinger 
 for prestige class which really hurts me :) (I love Elves)
  
  Give it a try it is a good game worth playing quite funny and enjoyable but not a masterpiece like 
 the Baldur's Gate 2... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheRosTer
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 18, 2007 9:56 am PT
Review:  Better than the first as many wud agree im sure, A must buy 4 rpg gamers.. The ability to have your 
 own team wud be the biggest improvement in my eyes and i cant wait to start the game again as well 
 as gettin the expansion pack.. Obsidian knew what they were doing when they made this and now hopefully 
 they cud do the same if they make Kotor 3... If any one has played the Expansion pack... Let me know 
 whats if like, does it add or take away from the story and ending to NWN 2, dont want to get it if 
 it mess's with the ending like, Cheers 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pooyas
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 15, 2007 9:57 am PT
Review:  The game has lots of ways and lots of amazing characters. Each character has its own feats and 
 skills which leads you to many ways to complete the game. Its a very addictive game. After completing 
 with the wizard character (I strongly recommend not to pick this character!) I finished it with 
 a paladin and yet I want to finish with other characters. The dialogs are very well designed. When 
 you listen to the dialogs, without seeing a character you can recognize the personality of the 
 character who is speaking. You feel the game while playing it. When I played, in my sleep I dreamed 
 about killing evils! The only bad thing about the game is its camera. The camera adjustment is 
 very hard and in some place you need to pause the game and change the view and then resume it in 
 order not to lose the battle. Besides this, the graphic is very good and it is not easy and not 
 hard to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nic4games
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 11, 2007 2:19 pm PT
Review:  I played games that are similar from its gameplay... I played Baldurs Gate, Icewind Dale, Pool 
 Radiance, Neverwinter Nights. From the said games that i said, the gameplay are similar but different 
 graphics. But the most i was stunned about, is the adding of Neverwinter Nights 2 of progressing 
 your own fort. From the middle of the story, you will take over a fort were you will rebuild and 
 make it better than before. Now, the developers of this games added this type of gameplay sure 
 makes the Neverwinter Nights 2 a great game. I will explain why the new gameplay is so interesting, 
 because when you are at the middle of the story of the game... it's kinda boring because it's all 
 the same from the other games that the developers made the baldurs gate. But like i said when you 
 end up at the middle of the story.... you eneding up rebuilding a forth. Recruiting soldiers to 
 protect your fort and also protecting the merchants, and the merchants comes to your fort to establish 
 market or making income from your tax, building fortress walls to tighten up your defense. Now 
 i make my gaming at Neverwinter Nights 2 more interesting. So guys, if your planning on buying 
 RPG game. I definitely recommend this game! It's worth it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: link12394
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 8, 2007 6:58 pm PT
Review:  Dont get me wrong. I love the nwn series. I've played through the entire series. This game was 
 no let down. The story was probably my favorite out of the nwn series, the graphics were alright, 
 but it makes one wonder.... why are the requirents pretty high for hardware when it seems that 
 i have played other games with better graphics. (fear, HL2 etc.) but when i get nwn i had to get 
 a new video card... it was well overdue anyways. Also camera is constantly fought with. Other than 
 those 2 Small details i love the game. plenty of weapons, custimizations, armor, quests, and peeps. 
 i highly recommend this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fastpunk
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 12:39 pm PT
Review:  Initial reactions to Neverwinter Nights 2 (NWN2) ware not exactly positive. It had major stability 
 issues, a lot of bugs and some performance issues too. It looked like a game that went through 
 beta testing a bit too fast. One year and several hundred megabytes later (in the form of patches) 
 the game can finally be called stable, bug free and decent in terms of performance. So if you're 
 reading this now and want to purchase the game you need not worry about technical problems. Just 
 please, patch the game! It will take a while but it's for the best.
  
  OK, now that we got that out of the way, lets move on to the review. NWN2 is the sequel to the 
 critically acclaimed RPG Neverwinter Nights (why it was so acclaimed I don't know...) developed 
 by Bioware (a company we should call EA Edmonton from now on, sadly) and for the most part it improves 
 on many of NWN's flaws, particularly the single player campaign. NWN2 offers a more engaging story, 
 better characters and great writing when compared to the first game. It also has a few interesting 
 ideas along the way (a trial, a war of bards, a keep to manage... but I've said enough, the rest 
 is up to you to discover) that certainly raise the quality of the campaign by a lot. The story 
 isn't too original, it's pretty much the type of thing you'd expect from a high fantasy game. But 
 you know what they say: it's the small things that make a difference. NWN2 has some very interesting 
 details: references to some old 'friends' from past D&D games (if you've played Planescape: Torment 
 you'll be familiar with a two factions that make an appearance) or a few interesting dialog lines 
 here and there that are filled with wisdom. It's these small things that stick with you after you've 
 finished the game and although the campaign is pretty cliche, it's more than the sum of it's parts.
 
  
  Also, you'll not be journeying alone: some interesting NPCs will help you. Some of them are very 
 interesting and considering how many and how different they are it's going to be hard not to like 
 at least one or two of them. Too bad the game doesn't give you a choice when it comes to companions. 
 While I found a few NPCs to be great, some were annoying and it would have been great if the game 
 allowed you to drop them off... or not take them with you in the first place. The game has a lot 
 of moments when it forces you to do things in a certain way actually, it's just how the campaign 
 was thought out. NWN2 is a linear game, no point in denying this. Also, some parts of the campaign 
 feel totally unnecessary. Obsidian could have stripped this down to a 25-30 hour campaign easily, 
 that way it would have been more dense and focused. Most of this filler content is in Act I and 
 I had a few moments when I wanted to quit but thankfully I persevered and it paid off because once 
 you hit Act II things improve significantly. From that point on it was a nice journey with a few 
 highlights along the way.
  
  NWN2 plays pretty well too, although it's a bit easy (in this case, mods can save the day) . The 
 game has a few AI problems but I always play with the AI turned off and I pause frequently to issue 
 orders. It got particularly fun towards the end when the game throws at you a few tough fights 
 that require careful tactics. But that's just me. If you like it the other way and play on "auto-pilot" 
 (as in with the AI turned on and without taking control of other NPCs to issues commands... or 
 simply put, NWN1 style) you might be disappointed. It's a pretty complex game (D&D 3.5... ) and 
 you have to take it slow to enjoy it's nuances. You have a ton of classes, skills and feats to 
 choose from and there are endless combinations of characters. They don't play totally different 
 but it's certainly not the same thing if you play as a fighter or as a warlock for example. As 
 I said: take it slow and experiment with different combinations.
  
  As with the previous NWN, the game also has an online mode, a dungeon master client and a toolset. 
 I must confess I haven't tried any of them but I have noticed that lately the online community 
 is blossoming. There are a lot of custom campaign and mods and some of these projects are really 
 adventurous and interesting (like Rogue Dao's Planescape: Purgatorio for example) . This certainly 
 adds to the game's value a lot.
  
  In terms of graphics and sound things are pretty good. NWN2 looks great if you have a good PC, 
 it's pretty demanding in terms of hardware though. Thankfully it has been getting better and better 
 with every patch. Sounds and music are a mix of old and new, if you've played NWN than you'll recognize 
 many of them. It's not a game that sounds particularly good but it's certainly above average.
 
  
  So what more is there to say? Honestly, I recommend you get NWN2 if you're into D&D or RPGs in 
 general. But if all the reasons above did not convince you than I offer you one more: Mask of the 
 Betrayer. It's the name of the first expansion for NWN2. It improved on the official campaign in 
 almost every possible way and its story, setting and atmosphere are just brilliant. It's all up 
 to you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elendar
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 30, 2007 1:57 pm PT
Review:  I read alot of negative player reviews about this game and especially with all the camera issues 
 I can see why. However, after waiting awhile and getting all the patches, this game is definitely 
 worth playing. It's obvious that it takes alot of its inspiration from Baldur's Gate II, which 
 really isn't a bad thing. The characters are great and really engaging. I actually have grown to 
 like my mottley crew, and not all RPG's are able to do that. The adaptation of D&amp; D rules are 
 great. My only gripe is that I wish we could control the NPC classes just a bit more. Maybe multiclass 
 them if we wanted to. However, that's a minor point. The most frustrating thing about this game 
 is the camera control. I don't know what they did, but the control from the KOTOR games should 
 have been kept, as this is the most frustrating camera set-up I've played with. Also the inventory 
 screen is really haphazard and usually proves to be a burden. But despite all that, overall I really 
 enjoy the game. Very engaging and complex storyline, much more so than the original. I'd actually 
 say this is even better than Bioware's last go at it of Jade Empire. Definitely worth picking up 
 for any RPG and D&amp; D fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nwys13
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 29, 2007 11:01 pm PT
Review:  With the interaction among the party members, it's hard to believe that I'm the only one with the 
 ability to talk. It's not so much on going up level and fighting, the story is quite compelling 
 and interesting.
  
  1st NWM was more on fighting and to show off the power of the tool-set. NWM 2 had improved in the 
 game-play department.
  
  well basically I like it because I now need to decide on who to take with me to adventure, not 
 because of their skill but because which of them would be more attached to my character.
  
  Its fun, if u like torment and KOTOR, u're not gonna regret! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackBart2
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 15, 2007 10:52 am PT
Review:  First things first. After the latest patch the performance has improved greatly. However, I will 
 still knock off some points because it was released pretty much unfinished and it took a year to 
 get to this point. With that out of the way, this is my kind of RPG. Plenty of dialogue options 
 and opportunities to use your skills, like lore and diplomacy in conversation. They're also lot's 
 of opportunities to gain or lose influence with companions and take the good path or evil. It has 
 strategic combat especially with using spell casters. My only complaint is that sometimes it does 
 seem like every quest is centered around combat.
  
  The graphics IMO are good for this type of game but it doesn't make sense that the combat animations 
 aren't as good in this game as they were in the first. The spell affects are great and feel really 
 powerful.
  
  This game, when all patched up is certainly worth your time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kelderon56
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 11, 2007 12:59 pm PT
Review:  Neverwinter Nights 2 is definitely a fun game to play, and compared to some of the RPG's being 
 made today it is quite good. But compared to what it should have been it is definitely a bit of 
 a letdown. The story is actually well done letting you get caught up in the sweep of the events. 
 The companions you can gather along the way are well written for the most part with quite amusing 
 comic relief. There however some problems with control over them , they can act quite stupidly 
 without second by second micromanagement at times, and they just plain stopped following my character 
 a couple of times. While the game is not completely linear it is not all that far off. There are 
 some side quests you can do but they are only available at certain times and aren't really all 
 that big. The keep can be quite fun to play with when you get to that point, with the actually 
 physical buildings changing as you pay to upgrade them. The game does however do the D&amp; D rule 
 system very well allowing good character customization that has an actual impact on how the game 
 plays. If you create a Warlock, you had better watch out not to do too many good deeds or your 
 alignment will shift and you wont be able to gain any more Warlock levels till you shift it back. 
 There are two slightly different paths you can take in the game though, once you get to Neverwinter 
 proper, where you can choose to be on one side of the law or the other for some of the game's main 
 quests. All in all the game is pretty good, but it is nothing amazing like it could of and should 
 have been. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krehzy
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 9, 2007 9:49 am PT
Review:  And that's what it was. An experience. From start to finish, NwN2 was something to behold, a masterpiece 
 in every right. Everything that an RPG should be, this was. That's why you should buy it, own it, 
 play it through, and then decide that your life isn't worth living without the expansion. I know 
 I have the expansion preordered, and I'm picking it up tomorrow. A game among games, that is NwN2. 
 I've played RPGs before, but enver one quite so outstanding as this one. A true epic in every right, 
 worth every cent and more that I payed for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vasot
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 14, 2007 8:35 am PT
Review:  Excellent storyline and sounds
  
  Controls are a little bad. Henchman AI and pathfinding have problems (but have been fixed a lot 
 with latest patch fortunately) Graphics are good but not awesome... and there is some Framerate 
 stutter sometimes for some unknown reason. Overall the game is very good and because of the Excellent 
 storyline and the deep world of D&amp; D all the bad about it do not seem so serious
  
  I have to say i really liked the game and especially i love the community of this game
  
  You 
 can find mods and so many things in the community that adds a lot of life in this game after you 
 finish the pretty good story
  
  The game is one of the best RPG and if did not have the problems mentioned above it would be a 
 ALL TIME CLASSIC for sure 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordmeanflea
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 2, 2007 2:58 pm PT
Review:  My opinion on Neverwinter Nights 2 is one of the top forgotten realm series and looking forward 
 for the expansion pack. If you merge Baldurs Gate and both Icewind Dale games you get Neverwinter, 
 both feel and for its compelling story. Just love the detail customization when creating you protagonist 
 and many varies races and sub-races to its many classes and prestige classes. The background sound 
 quality is very clear from footsteps to the birds, from the swords clashing, and to flies buzzing 
 around a dead carcass is just simply wonderful. The graphics are great and the detail on the outfit 
 are amazing but it could have been a little bit better with the lighting and background stuff. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deepbluekarz
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 26, 2007 3:06 am PT
Review:  Excellent storyline, sound, voice. Clumsy controls. Poor design. OK / Average graphics. Framerate 
 stutters sometimes. Overall a good gameplay reminding me of baldurs gate and KOTOR at the same 
 time. Gameplay easy despite being in hardest difficulty, but the end part gets quite hard if not 
 for game expoiting. Yes the last part was very hectic, so many things going on at the same time.
 
  
  Another issue is the clumsy controls. You have to hold the right click so that you can broadcast 
 commands. Not Intuitive since it further hampers fluid gameplay and makes a slow game slower. You 
 can't select your party on the main screen and have to click on their portait each time which is 
 another oh my god this is pathetic situation. You can't select all so that you can focus fire, 
 but have to do it one by one, clicking on all the portraits. So micro is not easy here, but it 
 seems enemies die so easily, except in the last part.
  
  The interface looks really bad. Almost like it was designed by a 3 year old kid. The chat interface 
 again has tiny text making you struggle to read, except on the full screen interaction which had 
 large text. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sedryn
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 24, 2007 3:42 pm PT
Review:  Making a good PC Role-Playing Game is not an easy task. On the long list of PC RPGs, very few are 
 good enough to play all the way to conclusion. The expectations for fans of games like Baldurs 
 Gate 2 are exceedingly high. A good RPG needs to consist of manageable gameplay thats interesting 
 enough to last for 50+ hours within the context of an immersive and well-executed interactive story. 
 Neverwinter Nights 2 meets this criteria and is without a doubt a good RPG. It succeeds where the 
 original NWN failed by providing a consistently engaging single player campaign. However, its 
 not without its shortcomings.
  
  The main strengths of NWN2 are its engaging storyline and characters. Theres a lot of voice acting 
 and most of it ranges from good to great, but there are a couple of sequences where its not-so-good. 
 Still, I consider NWN2 to be an enormous improvement over its predecessor in this regard, which 
 had (in my view) a dull story with mostly poor voice acting. Another welcome change in NWN2 from 
 the original is the ability to take full control of all party members. Limiting party members to 
 retainers controlled by AI, as they did in the original NWN, was an ill-conceived decision even 
 if it was more technically accurate to a single player Dungeon &amp; Dragons campaign. NWN2 is 
 a reminder that they had it right the first time back in 1998 with the release of Baldurs Gate. 
 Being able to control your entire party allows the player to get a taste of several different character 
 classes and adds much needed variety to the gameplay.
  
  The biggest weakness of NWN2 is that its technically not as polished as it could have been. The 
 camera is unwieldy at times and takes some getting used to. In addition to a few other minor bugs, 
 the game engine doesnt deliver the kind of graphics that should be expected for its hardware requirements. 
 Still, most of the technical issues can be tolerated in light of the excellent content. But one 
 thing thats difficult to overlook is the lackluster epilogue. There is such a contrast in quality 
 between the epilogue and the rest of the game its enough to make one suspect that an entirely 
 different company stepped in to handle the last five minutes of narration.
  
  Is NWN2 worth playing? If youre a PC RPG fan, absolutely. I just hope that the upcoming expansion 
 adds a finale thats worthy of remembrance for its quality rather than its lack thereof. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dbrewer842
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 19, 2007 12:00 am PT
Review:  NWN 2 added a lot of eye candy, but due to the aging game engine itself created a lot of issue 
 with more modern hardware that is now the standard with PC's. The improvements on the graphics 
 side of the game is very nice. The rich story line, even if considered by some to have a slow pace 
 at the beginning, I consider to still be pretty good. The ending could have used a lot of help 
 though. The official game guides that were produce leave a great deal to be desired. The tool box 
 for making your own adventures are anything but user friendly and in my opinion is so bad that 
 it is almost unusable. However with that said the game would have lived up to its name sake. Graphics 
 I rate as very high. Game play why slow and drawn out at times still does very well in my book 
 as a D&amp; D based RPG. I find the game consol to be as every bit as good as the original NWN. 
 The use of an over land map adds flavor and a feeling of world, vice the old one door/path leads 
 onto just another map feeling. The one major pain of the game is that the use of the same old engine 
 however heavily modified does not us most of the modern hardware at it optimum ability. This creates 
 a lot of the bugs/unstable running and memory leaks. The new add on that is due out next month 
 is suppose to address some issues however it is clear until a more newer engine is designed that 
 is more capable of using the more modern hardware, many of the problems will continue on. This 
 leaves one question is the game worth getting and also is the upcoming add on worth the money. 
 This player will be getting the new add on without question. As far as the future of the whole 
 NWN thing. Because of the time it took from NWN 2 release to just a 25 hour add on to be released. 
 I feel that the powers that be are not really planning on continued production of this title. So 
 it could be some time before we see a replacement D&amp; D RPG game of this style of game play to 
 be released. When that happens I am sure that there will be a newer game engine that takes duo 
 core processing as well as the newer PCI express V-cards into account. As said before you take 
 out the problems with the older modified engine and the game else wise would have be a much greater 
 game. But with them, many player have been turned off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lucky769
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 13, 2007 1:35 pm PT
Review:  The game is different in play then the first game, but just as exciting. I find myself getting 
 up a hour earlier before work just to a little of the game in. I have played three different roles, 
 and probably play at least on more before moving on (i have 4 games i haven't even open yet) . I 
 have a midrange computer and even though I can't max out all options the game still looks and play 
 great. I have had no crashes at all. It might slow down after 3 hrs of playing and then I have 
 to re-boot. My only complaint is that it is too short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shep78
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 11, 2007 11:04 pm PT
Review:  At first the game seemed alot like your normal everyday RP rampage... but after a few hours you 
 start to notice how your interactions with the other players starts to form. You almost feel like 
 your in an MMO with the life and reactions of the other NPCs. The 3 chapter I thought was the best 
 were you get to spoiler.... 
 
  Build your own keep and upgrade it along with your soldiers. Basically the game simply rocked 
 and I have been having a hard time finding good PC games lately. SO... to boil it down:
  
  Great Role Playing and rock n' combat.
  well suited for fun and keeps you on your senses going 
 with fun things to do. Bordem isnt so much a factor with this game as with other RPg's 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scribs89
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 11, 2007 8:50 am PT
Review:  This game has many features such as the tool set making it definitely worth your money just from 
 the fact that you can make your own campaign. The story is very good considering not many games 
 make good stories and its hard to find one in a medieval/fantasy type of world. Its really good 
 to be able to choose your path and make your self chaotic evil or lawful good and everything in 
 between. You can make almost any class you can think of. Of course the game could have been better 
 by making the character controls over your single guy you're controlling at the time, but no one 
 makes perfect games so this is a great game and if you like rpgs it is worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: junkovance
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 8, 2007 11:31 am PT
Review:  As far as the storyline, wordplay and other factors needed to progress the game were more than 
 satisfactory, the gameplay issues were another thing entirely. The game seemed rather dull and 
 unmistakably slow especially in reference to the battle scenes, multiplayer issues i. e. (when someoone 
 in your party cries out help help i'm gonna get squashed!!! all you had to do was pass through 
 another door into another area and magically your entire party goes along with you. The thrill 
 you had when you played the first installment and it's expansions distinctly took a nose dive here. 
 Great graphics and impressive point light shadows etc. are never substitutes for great gameplay, 
 it never is. It's not a beauty contest. The game could have used the old 3d engine and just add 
 a little shine here and there and it would still have turned out better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dupreez
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 5, 2007 4:19 am PT
Review:  I Installed this game, filled with excitement and overwhelmed with enthusiasm. Start it up only 
 to discover that the game is basically unplayable without a load of fixes. And as soon as you load 
 the patch the whole game comes to life, jumping out of your PC and dragging you into a world of 
 fantasy, at least for the fist 4 or 5 hours. Then it waters down, and slows up. At least with the 
 single player campaign.
  
  The Multiplayer on the other hand is loads of fun, the introduction of strategy discussion before 
 entering a battle actually revitalized this game into a real gem. Great Graphics, nice sound and 
 loads of RPG action gives it a real kick, making the player feel involved. Awesome online support 
 is sure to keep this game alive with new content just like NWN1. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bleys987
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 3, 2007 3:04 pm PT
Review:  As above - the story line is riveting, the game is compelling, the graphics are great. If you like 
 DnD or RPGs even remotely (or even if you hate them!) this is still a fantastic game.
  
  The class selection is fun - I went eldritch knight and found it a great balance. Crafting is interesting, 
 and a slight knock-off of WoW, which, IMO is not a bad thing at all.
  
  I can't recommend this game enough. It's given me more entertainment than most MMORPGs with a fraction 
 of the cost.
  
  From the guys who brougth us Icewind Dale and other great ones - don't pass this up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: comugrafica
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 3, 2007 10:46 am PT
Review:  So, I bougth this game after I finished my Baldur's Gate game. It feels like a good game, the storyline 
 its very consistent, and the graphics are really good. I particullary like the cameras, wich allow 
 me to play from virtually any perspective, it gives the game a lot of freedom when it comes to 
 engagins in a figth, or just enjoying the view. The weapons are a little bit repetitive, but that 
 fairly common on this types of games, I would like to see a more custom way to create weapons.
 
  
  Overall this is a great game, it had some issues witj the pathfinding abilities of the AI, but 
 with the patches it all worked out just fine, at least for me. Great replayability and difficulty 
 settings, so Enjoy!. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warpld
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 3, 2007 5:04 am PT
Review:  Now that's a title that really left me with mixed impressions. The game definitely manages to create 
 a thick atmosphere though I don't know how, since graphics are there only so that people don't 
 think this is just a text adventure! The game really looks ugly even with all candy on (with the 
 single exception of spell effects) and graphics are really more... schematic... just to convey 
 the sense that you are in a town or a forest for example, not to really try and present it. On 
 the other hand requirements are steep :\.
  
  Yet, I found the story rather enjoyable and interesting with nice turns and all, even though it 
 is a mighty cliche as could be expected from a hardcore D&amp; D title. Still it advances slower 
 than it should around the portion where you enter Neverwinter for the first time.
  
  Gameplay was great, too, especially the character advancement system, but nothing less could be 
 expected from the latest D&amp; D rules.
  
  However, AI was just dreadful! The many auto options available for companions behaviour really 
 make things worse so you are better off just switching everything off and just instructing your 
 companions to follow you closely. The pause key saves the day, because when the fray begins you 
 will have the bulk of your characters either sitting idly while recieving damage or attacking like 
 a berserker when you are actually trying to get them out of the fight.
  
  Interface is cumbersome but it works once you get used to it. Actually, it might be better as it 
 is for such a complex game. The only thing that really should have been improved is visible hot 
 keys for your characters' special abilities and the way you issue commands to them.
  
  Now comes the section where I was about to hate the game a lot a finally give it a very low score 
 - BUGS!!! Even with the latest patches on, I still had a terrible issue which almost made me quit 
 playing - the files corresponding to my characters were constantly erased from my savegames which 
 led to campaign-stopping errors, loss of items and experience, etc. I was using 5 different save 
 slots to prevent this from happening and still I had to revert to saves from several hours ago 
 three times because something went very wrong. I had to copy different portions of my saved games 
 and even edit some files manually in order to continue. That was just about where I was going to 
 dump the game when something occured to me - I unplugged my network cable and disabled all internet 
 protections (firewall, anti-virus, etc.) and then finished the rest 10-20 hours without any problems. 
 So it might have been my real-time protections causing the troubles... I don't know for sure but 
 my final score went up for sure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raskolnikov_usa
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 1, 2007 10:44 pm PT
Review:  First of all when I played this game I thought wow! this is BLAND. Now after tweaking my pc and 
 adjusting the graphics card, I can say that this game really brought an enjoyable experience to 
 the table. The gameplay was somewhat challenging, the storyline was really pretty decent, and character 
 building is really fun to do.
  
  My character was a 4 fighter 1 bard 10 rdd and 5 fb. Every character I make will now have 10 levels 
 of red dragon disciple*. lets see I just finished the game and its late and i am somewhat fatigued, 
 but one thing I can say about this game whas that it really enveloped me for like a solid week. 
 I found the playing combined with the storyline to be an intriguing combo. Also the character I 
 made became so powerful... words can't describe the pride I feel. I'm like a proud parent of my 
 little pix elating rpg butt kicking machine. In summary GO RED DRAGON DISCIPLES! They is uber. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadyJade
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 1, 2007 4:14 pm PT
Review:  Well I'm a huge fan of the neverwinter series and a huge fan of the RPG world. I think gamespot 
 gave neverwinter nights 2 an underrated score. I must ad that the graphics look pretty good and 
 so do the sounds. I've finished the game about 4 times by now and with the latest patch installed 
 it surpasses some technical issues. The characters have like personal feelings of they're own and 
 like in no other game the way you treat them will affect the ending of the game. Yes if you're gonna 
 treat a companion with disrespect in the end he's gonna side with the enemy because of the way 
 you treated him. The story is very good and it unfolds as you play longer raising allot of of questions 
 for which answers will be unveiled later on. Sound is good but it could be better if i might ad. I 
 found it was full of humour and a very very engaging game but i found it had a weak spot for the 
 ranger class which isn't as tough or balanced as it used to be. It has some bugs but that shouldn't 
 make it a normal game it still has it's distinctive approach and the D&amp; D spirit is still alive 
 in there. In short it has a 9 from me it's good and i can't wait for Mask of the Betrayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Transmute
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 14, 2007 11:58 pm PT
Review:  Neverwinter Nights 2 is an improvement over its predecessor Neverwinter Nights most especially 
 in the realm of its party-based gameplay, the interface (somewhat) and especially graphics. Though 
 the actual gameplay is fun, there are a few things which, in my opinion, detract seriously from 
 the enjoyment. My biggest issue is with the camera, which very often requires the player to manually 
 adjust his or her point of view. When using the keyboard to turn your player character (PC) on 
 the spot, there are fixed degrees of rotation that your PC ends up with, which is somewhat minor 
 but extremely frustrating when you're trying to get through a doorway and you end up bumping first 
 into the right side then bumping into the left side, missing the doorway completely. This is compounded 
 with the fact that unlike in NWN1, the chase driving camera mode no longer turns the camera when 
 you turn your character; it only lines up behind your PC when you run forward. This makes navigating 
 small rooms and dungeons immensely frustrating; especially if you're a melee character and there 
 are enemies both in front and behind you in a fight. That's it for major issues in my opinion. 
 As for minor issues, first off would be the loading times. Perhaps it is just me, but NWN2 seems 
 to take a lot longer than NWN1 to load. Second, you can only change your party make-up when you're 
 exiting certain areas (such as the Docks tavern or Crossroad Keep) , which makes it troublesome 
 if you want to do something such as buy new equipment for one of your party members but they're 
 not currently with you, so you need to trek down all the way to the exit just to adjust your party 
 following. Third, some crafting recipes don't work even though it says Crafting successful . I 
 assume this has been taken care of in patches? If not... well, more irritating little things to 
 give you that slightly-less-than-perfect experience. Last of all is the ending sequence for the 
 game's main campaign. Of all the quality games I have played in my life; of all the quality games 
 I have spent money on; of all the game series that I have come to regard with respect and with 
 an expectation of quality, Neverwinter Nights 2 has to have THE WORST ENDING sequence I have ever 
 had the misfortune to witness. The story throughout the game itself is quite compelling and immersive, 
 and in comparison, the ending is downright insulting. It's not just lackluster; it's really that 
 bad. The voice-over for the end scene narration sounds terrible, and what's worse, whatever sense 
 of achievement or glory you feel from defeating the last boss (who is a walkover in my opinion... 
 as a fighter/weapon master anyway) is immediately dispelled by the story of your player character's 
 fate. Not a big deal, in a sense, but also a very big deal from a story-telling point of view (which, 
 correct me if I am wrong, is important for an RPG) . Really leaves you with a bitter aftertaste.
 
  
  Now despite a lot of negative things I've said about the game... nevertheless it's still quite 
 a good game and worth the money spent on it. The D&amp; D framework which the game uses offers very 
 good replay value by using different classes and conversation choices, for starters. The crafting 
 aspect of the game is also very good, although the components required for the highest-end recipes 
 are so rare it's almost a disappointment. The personal involvement that you have with the game's 
 environment is also quite gratifying, especially when you manage your stronghold.
  
  All in all I've held this game to a very high standard, so I am rather biased. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Siylence
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 14, 2007 8:52 am PT
Review:  If you were a fan of the original game, then this is a must buy. It's nearly perfect except for 
 the sound because the sounds from the old game show up in this one. Whilst they have new sounds... 
 hearing that Cortano-fordig-u-ma spell cast is getting a little old. No big deal though. The graphics 
 look AMAZING. Unfortunately, I ended up buying a new video card JUST for this game. A high-end 
 video card like a Sapphire X1950 Pro should do it. It's fairly cheap online and has the same specs 
 as a $500 video card. What's to lose? Make sure you get one with 512Mb memory on it because 256 
 doesn't cut it. Once all the hardware problems were solved, the game was kick ass. It has a great 
 story. Unlike in Neverwinter Nights 1, this game has balance. You don't have to worry about hordes 
 of impossibly strong NPCs attacking you at the beginning of the game like in the original. If you 
 stray off the beaten path, you may find sidequests like rescuing a guy from a wolf pack or saving 
 a militia platoon from crypts held by a dark wizard.
  
  It's got one of the best stories in a game. I think, if anything, you need to ATLEAST try it... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ash_rulerz
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 14, 2007 1:35 am PT
Review:  I have not played the previous games in the nwn series but when i took up nwn2 i was looking for 
 a change from rts to rpg. Well, i was not disapointed. The storyline is good enough as an excuse 
 to pit you against an evil king of shadows whether you choose the evil, good or chaotic side. i've 
 played as a paladin (later divine champion) and throughout the game i had fun hacking and slashing 
 the bad guys. The different roles that the game lets you assume is worth exploring and since i 
 dont play rpgs enough, the influence system on the npcs was someway new for me but great. However, 
 by the end of the game it became boring to just click and kill, i should have taken a magic character 
 but its fun to control the npcs and unleash the magic of qara, zheaves and others. Now i had fun 
 with crafting and enchanting. thats probably the best part of the game. Throughout the game, i 
 collected gems, essences in order to make the most powerful armor and weapons. When i got the keep 
 to build and manage, it was just for the better because it added diversity to the game.
  
  Graphics..... Cant tell! am playing on a pc that if i gave u the specs, i would sound like jurassic 
 era. In the end, its very fun to play. One thing i think would have been good would be to let us 
 level up the npcs in prestige classes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: koolgraphic
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 11, 2007 6:34 am PT
Review:  This is my first time playing this type of game so Im gonna give you an honest review about this 
 game. First of all, before you play this game, it is advisable to upgrade to at least the 1.05 
 version of the game before you indulge yourself. The technical problems are there but the game 
 is playable if you ignore it. The gameplay indulges you in certain ways that has never been done 
 before. The use of several characters in the game is an added bonus to the gameplay. The story 
 line is long and there are other quest in the game that will divert your attention from the main 
 storyline but will no doubt be important for your companions to level up. Another aspect of the 
 game that I admire is your main character trying to please his or her companions which is fun because 
 at the end of the day, they will protect you or turn against you. Becareful what you say. They 
 annoying thing about the game is the camera positioning which is rather not good even if you try 
 different angles
  
  The graphics of the game is rather dull but OK. The game is heavy on graphics hardware. I play 
 with AMD X2 4200+, 2Gb RAM, 7800GT and i can say that sometimes i have to tone down the shadow 
 aspect of the game, although it is not that good looking. Sound makes up for the dull graphics 
 with an amazing soundtrack and special effects sound. The value in this game lies in the replayability 
 if the game and multiplayer component. I recommend this game to any role playing game fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheIronLotus
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 10, 2007 5:39 am PT
Review:  Neverwinter Nights 2 is much different from the first in many ways. The world seems familiar in 
 some places but travel and the combat system seemed to have changed, but not for the worse. Gameplay 
 - The way you engage yourself in combat is slightly different from the first and if you are used 
 to the right clicking in NWN to bring up the spells and melee then it may take you a little to 
 get used to NWN 2 but once you do its very simple.
  
  Graphics - Here lies a bit of a problem. As mentioned in alot of other reviews the game have very 
 high hardware demands for a game that does not particularly look that amazing. The models and the 
 details of the world are very beautiful and very colorful in its own right but not the best thats 
 been shown.
  
  Sound - Goes very well and the music and voices are whats to be expected
  
  Value - If your computer can run it then this game is amazing. If you happen to get bored with 
 the game download a mod or two. Different chapters of games are played in NWN2 such as Temple of 
 Elemental Evil. All in all NWN2 is a wonderful game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hawkeye2272
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 7, 2007 10:14 am PT
Review:  Neverwinter Nights 2 is a big step up from Neverwinter Nights. This most obvious upgrade is in 
 the graphics, although they're not extremely good for the hardware is takes to run them. Aside 
 from graphics, however, the rest of the game is generally great. There are many interactive cutscenes 
 that are (for the most part) well voice-acted. This alone is one of my favorites new features from 
 the original game. The music fits the theme and is well done, and some of the original NWN music 
 is even brought back. The controls of the game are not overly difficult, they just take some getting 
 used to. A lot of people seem to have a problem with the camera, but if you bind it to an extra 
 button on your mouse (if you have them) or use the default click of the mouse wheel it's pretty 
 easy to move it when you need to. The companions, while not the smartest A. I. ever, show a lot 
 of cleverness, such as your sorceror companion using a firewall in a small area to force enemies 
 to cross it. Many of their gameplay aspects can be tweaked in game anyway, such as protecting the 
 leader when attacked. You can also shut off all A. I. (except for auto-follow) and just control 
 each of them manually, although this isn't really needed is a large majority of fights. The story 
 in NWN2 rivals it's predecessor, and with the added cutscenes makes for a very immersive experience. 
 All of your companions have an influence system that is based on your actions towards them as well 
 as others. If you have a good companion and choose to kill rob someone blind, they'll look poorly 
 on you and you'll lose influence with that person while gaining influence with a thief who enjoys 
 such activities. Many of your companions also have sidequests and stories that you can go through 
 if you have enough experience with them. The replay value of this game is also very high. Aside 
 from numerous character customization options, there are several ways to get through the main story 
 based on if you're good or evil, or lawful or chaotic. Getting all the companions sidequests is 
 very difficult with just one character as well, which is another reason to play through again. 
 Finally, there's multiplayer. Even if you don't wish to play through the main story with others, 
 there are tons of mods you can download and play through either solo or online with a group. Overall 
 this game excels over its predecessor. I recommend it to anyone who enjoys RPGs, especially if 
 they enjoyed the first Neverwinter Nights. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asdf_en
Rating: 4
Date: Aug 5, 2007 8:07 pm PT
Review:  I was really looking forward to this game, but heard the bad reviews on its initial release so 
 decided to wait. A friend said that he's been playing it and it's OK, so I tried it. I have a Nvidia 
 6600, AMD Athlon 3400+ with 2GB RAM. The game was a snail. I had to turn the video down to darn 
 ugly and the game was still jerky. The camera is horrible. The first wave of attack, what does 
 the camera do? Swings around to face away from the oncoming horde!
  
  I remember taking a little while to adjust to NWN1's control, but I never found a way to play this 
 game. If you have a $500 video card, you might have a different experience, but from what I can 
 tell, this game is just not worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tonykorea
Rating: 5.3
Date: Aug 5, 2007 1:56 am PT
Review:  Okay, I was addicted to Neverwinter Nights 1 for 2 weeks. I think I played 5 hours per day. Despite 
 of its unstable graphic, (I have 1024MB RAM and AR9550, but still getting crashes..) It had epic 
 storyline and wonderous balance which can make your character a god.
  
  Neverwinter Nights 2.... I was amazed with graphics at first, but it only lasted 10 second after 
 I played it. It had crazy system requirements and Disastrous camera angles. Sounds? Everything 
 except background music and Nasher Alagondar were same! Everything! Spellcasting, groaning, shouting 
 and screaming. Let's talk about gameplay for now. It took only 20 seconds to realize that all classes 
 became an action type. Also, Spells were all same! Also, It has disastrous value of replaying and 
 short story. It felt more like playing a mod for dungeon siege 2. Some of good stuffs are in shiny 
 visuals, but don't let it charm you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: InSoMnIaK604
Rating: 4.3
Date: Jul 31, 2007 9:26 am PT
Review:  As a DnD/DnD Online fan I found this game to be an ugly clunky mess.
  
  The Character creation system is alright, but there are really only certain builds that will work, 
 you really have no Freedom. The hair styles available are stupid and just add to how generic this 
 game is.
  
  The graphics require alot more than they should, the game doesn't look all that great, there are 
 no physics anywhere, it just feels outdated.
  
  The gameplay was horrible, the time between attacks is just retarded, there is a 3-5 second delay 
 waiting for your attack to recharge its retarded, slow, clunky, boring, and slows the gameplay 
 down ALOT more than it should.
  
  The sound was average. nothing special.
  
  The story comes off as generic, and once again, BORING, I could not get into any of the characters, 
 they were more annoying than anything.
  
  The AI is a complete joke, most of the time you'll find your party members standing around staring 
 at walls, running into walls, getting stuck behind barrels, and other goodies.
  
  I hated playing this game, but if you like slow boring combat generic story and character creation 
 systems, then by all means, go and waste some money on this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kenobi6
Rating: 6.4
Date: Jul 30, 2007 5:35 pm PT
Review:  While the graphics of Neverwinter's Sequel are quite nice, the bad things outweigh the good.
  
  Although I'm sure other people may have liked some of the characters, I personally feel that 
 they lacked good voice-acting for the most part and uninteresting personalities and backgrounds.
 
  
  Nice looking graphics, I found them appealing possibly the only reason I give the game as high 
 a rating as I do. Obsidian got really lazy on the armour and weapon designs. All magic armours, 
 for the most part just look like a different coloured version of the previous one, Full Plate is 
 steel and Full Plate +1 is another hue of steel with different pauldrons? Woopie! Leather armour 
 couldn't look more boring, I had my rogue wearing his starting leather for alot longer than needed 
 just because it didn't look horribly generic. The game is of medieval fantasy genre, things don't 
 have to look 100% realistic, I think Obsidian needs more creativity since the only armour that 
 wasn't generic is the full plate but even it just looks bad because, while it IS unrealistic looking, 
 it is at the same time undetailed and skin tight. Not once have I heard of skin tight plate armour. 
 Weapon designs is another problem. The Holy Avenger for example didn't look glorious at all, it 
 didn't look bland but kind of shiny either. It looked more like a poor attempt a sword from something 
 like a Final Fantasy game.
  
  I really think Obsidian screwed up with face/hair options in character creation however. Humans 
 have plenty of different heads, most of which are fairly well done. Male elves got stuck with each 
 subrace having about three and the only one that was good, is the same head with a different skin 
 colour as for female elves, unless you play a wood elf or drow, they are horrifyingly ugly. I'm 
 not interested in digitally animated women, but elves are supposed to be attractive, men and women 
 alike. The rest of the races were good enough I supposed aside from the lack of options the few 
 heads were good.
  
  The animations didn't look right to be honost. Characters running with swords and shield have the 
 sword arm a metre out from their body flailing about and characters wielding two-handed weapons 
 look as though they're going to drop the weapon at any moment. In Neverwinter Nights 1 a two handed 
 weapon rests on the player's shoulders and it looks MUCH nicer.
  
  Neverwinter Nights 2 does not seem to be a very responsive game, if you tell a character to go 
 somewhere, they don't seem to understand what you've told them to do until a couple seconds later. 
 Since I'd be playing as that character, if I say I want to walk over and kill that goblin I should 
 just go do it I shouldn't stand around asking my party members if they also heard a big voice in 
 the sky say Go over there .
  
  As for A. I. the game gets hit hard here, many MANY a-times have I had my fighters and paladins 
 sitting in a doorway in their combat stance whilst I'm busy with the PC getting beaten on as a 
 mage. I guess that Obsidian figured that since I'd be able to control each party member seperately 
 like in Baldur's Gate then they would need virtually no A. I. whatsoever.
  When I first played Neverwinter Nights 1 I always thought I'd like having allies I can control 
 like in Baldur's Gate, but seeing as the henchman system worked better than NwN2's party member's 
 I would gladly have a henchman again.
  
  Finally we get to the story. A bit different from some of your average games, a bit of politics 
 here and there, ruling keep and all that fun stuff. But after doing a few missions for the Neverwinter 
 Watch made me want to kill myself by the time I was finished with Old Owl Well. How many orcs are 
 there in those caves anyways? And after how many seconds does fighting them become boring?
  
  Up until arriving in the city of Neverwinter, scenery mostly consists of
  swamps. Both ick 
 in my opinion, I prefer sunny days and some sort of an adventurous feel to a medieval game. When 
 finally getting into Neverwinter, the Fun Factor remains quite low until nearly the end of the 
 first Chapter of the game where you get to fight githyanki, finally a slight challenge in my opponents 
 and a blade golem provides an excellent difficult battle. Chapter 2 however starts off slow once 
 again, prove you're not guilty of murdering a village... not too hard and not too fun, I'd much 
 rather just say I was guilty and fight off an army of Luskan just because it might be a bit exciting. 
 After proving innocence however, the game begins to become interesting, quite enjoyable really! 
 But then when I started to feel I was playing a fun game, Obsidian screwed me over once again and 
 stuck a hag in my party forever who starts and finishes and says throughout every sentence the 
 word KNOW or variations of KNOW, these include: Knowing, Knew, and of course, Know. From then on, 
 I never had the sound playing for the rest of the game. Just my good ol' power metal playing in 
 Windows Media Player.
  Finally fighting a dragon later on, a red one at that. And it has a Holy Avenger sword with it? 
 Hm.... now that's not at all directly from Bioware's Baldur's Gate II is it? No couldn't be!
  
  Summing things up, I think Obsidian shouldn't have even bothered. Why couldn't Bioware just 
 make the second Neverwinter like they did the first, whose only problem was the non-expansions 
 Official Campaign.
  
  On a side note. Obsidian as a company reeeaaaallly needs to work on their customer support. The 
 game has enough bugs, such as texture problems on certain machines OR the ever wonderful corrupt 
 save file that your save game might have somewhere along the line in Chapter 3 but you'll never 
 know untill that exact part, and the only consolation you get is the fun of starting all over again. 
 To anyone actually intent on playing, don't bother with Obsidian's forums for help, considering 
 Bioware (who isn't acknowledged on the game's box?) provides much more help on their own forums. 
 A sad thing that the designers of the game rely on another company to provide customer support. 
 In conclusion. BIG THANKS to Bioware, for providing customer support for Obsidian's screw up and 
 for providing most of this game's soundtrack since many of it's songs are directly from Neverwinter 
 Nights 1.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: valon34
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 25, 2007 5:46 pm PT
Review:  First of all the Graphics aren't that good could of been way better then it is right now! I I am 
 a big fan of RPG games but this game didn't really get into I was bored after awhile. A game isn't 
 suppose to do that it's suppose to keep you interested not let you get very bored and you don't 
 want to play it. The story is great but, I feel this game was overrated by IGN and Gamespot too. If 
 you want to buy this game go ahead. I don't recommend you do so but, it's your chose. I will still 
 continue to play RPG games that are great but, not RPG games that are a let down to me and many 
 other around me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: narc100
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jul 20, 2007 3:17 pm PT
Review:  I was never too fond of nwn 1. The Original Campaign, while vast and with plenty of side quests, 
 was poorly written, cliche&eacute; d and a generic experience. And since there was no party function, 
 but a shallow henchman system , it was a lonely and static experience as well, with just your character 
 amidst a bunch of uninteresting npcs. Nwn 1 was also dead graphically speaking . The environment 
 was mired in the tile-styled terrain and never really seemed to come alive , which resulted in 
 a lack of interest in your surroundings.
  These words are of course, pretty harsh, and maybe i had my expectations set to high. Like many 
 others i was probably expecting a successor to the mighty Baldurs gate series, and judged the game 
 not by its own merits, but rather by the giants of yesterday.
  Luckily for nwn 1, the included toolset seemed to at least make you able to make something that 
 would pass as a good rpg experience, though i must admit i am only familiar with the most basic 
 of its functions. But as several user modules have proved (and parts of Biowares expansion hordes 
 of the underdark ) good content and gameplay were possible with nwn 1.
  
  Now onto nwn 2:
  Obsidian took over the torch from Bioware, and promised to make up for what 
 was lacking in the OC and to improve on the games appearance and functionality. A party system 
 was introduced (although a party was possible in underdark ) and cinematic cutscenes added to the 
 usually dull npc angles from nwn 1. The graphics and cutscenes is where nwn 2 succeeds in my opinion, 
 gone are the generic looking tile based terrain, substituted with what appears as a fresh, uneven 
 and naturalistic setting, that even has an x axis. From muddy swamps to fairly detailed houses 
 and skylines, it seems possible to craft both the shiny and the gritty. The cutscenes work well 
 to keep your interest in the conversations, and adds an extra dimension to the dialogue, with its 
 fairly well done lip-synch.
  
  Nwn 2 doesn&acute; t deliver though. Obsidian stated that they would focus on the OC, but to me 
 it seems like an afterthought to the toolset . It is a dreadfully linear experience to play through 
 the OC, they might have included a living breathing party, but at the cost of sidequests and interesting 
 npcs. Simply put, the world of Faerun, as envisioned by the Obsidian designers, holds very few 
 surprises or special areas, or life, even. The gameworld is instead populated with unenterable 
 houses (make a little b&amp; e impossible) , hordes of generic npcs and areas that does not reward 
 you with exploring, but instead encourages to blindly follow the dots on your map to get to your 
 next mission. This was supposed to be an open ended rpg folks ! An rpg that discourages exploration 
 and sidequests seems to be neither. In fact, this is an example of poor level design , because 
 it is better suited to games such as fable or other console rpgs, than an rpg based on a party 
 with versatile abilities, which hardly gets any use in the OC. In order for this extreme railroading 
 to work you need to have a really strong story keeping the player interested until the bitter end, 
 which nwn 2 doesnt have. Granted it is ok, and far more suspenseful than the OC in nwn 1, but its 
 no Planescape: Torment.
  
  Oh, and before i forget i was quite disappointed in the fact that there is very little difference 
 between playing as an evil or good character. Basically the game has two paths, but the missions 
 are always regarding the same events, just seen from different angles. At one point where is was 
 playing and evil character, the designers even got so lazy, that they had an npc slip you some 
 forged documents , so they can force you to head down the good mission path. That was a real ugly 
 experience, considering what was promised about the focus on the OC .
  
  Obsidian deserves to be scolded for reuse of the original soundtracks and soundsets as well. Another 
 example of either a rushed, poor or sloppy developer. It is quite aggravating to pay for something 
 that so blatantly seems to just be an engine upgrade.
  Despite my overall negativity, there are some genuine good and strong moments in the campaign. 
 At one point you get to build up a stronghold of your own, and supply it with merchants, defenses 
 and fair (or not so fair ) taxation. The npcs are quite good too, and well fleshed out, and the 
 voice cast performs their duties to satisfaction.
  
  Another minor grievance is the lack of attention to a concept called immediacy. Youve probably 
 heard the term immersion thrown around often when developers are hyping their latest games. In 
 an Rpg , immersion is one of the single most important aspects in a game where you are supposed 
 to be imagining to be a different person. The game world has to be alive, and you have to forget 
 that youre actually playing a game. Of course thats hard to do in game based on abstract statistics 
 and classes such as d&amp; d is, but it is nevertheless something to strive for. A simple trick 
 to attempt to achieve immersion is through the aforementioned concept of immediacy. Immediacy means 
 a media that tries it best to hide that it is in fact a media. An example of this would be a media 
 player that allows you to go full screen and hides its logos, button etc. The opposite of immediacy 
 is hypermediacy, where the media tries its best to advocate itself as being an artificial construct. 
 Think of a website with flashing commercials and all sorts of buttons etc, in fact look at this 
 very website an you will see a media that insists upon its buttons and usefulness. Nwn 2, has all 
 the necessary interface without ramming them down your throat, so thats not the issue. Rather, 
 i feel it is the little things like map titles that sometimes reveal what type of location youre 
 in (plastered on the map is location number and map name , for instance Goblin Caves or somesuch) 
 before you have a chance to be surprised by encounters. The loading screens also insist on telling 
 you the amount of packages it is unpacking and area updates, which might hold interest for the 
 techies, but works to pull you out of the illusion of the gameworld. Another poor choice of design 
 decisions. like i said it is i minor annoyance, but for me, it detracts from the game experience.
 
  
  But , in order not end on a sour note, i will stress that the toolset seems to be able to deliver 
 unfulfilled promises, but like in nwn 1, it is up to us users to create the content that makes 
 the game live up to its potential. After having seen the myriad of customization available in the 
 toolset, i am certain that this game could be worthy of our time for some years at least, just 
 don&acute; t expect the developers to deliver that harrowing rpg feel for you. Look to the communities. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talonfire
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 18, 2007 8:00 pm PT
Review:  Neverwinter Nights was a solid game for its toolset, and multiplayer support. The actual story 
 campaign in the original NWN, however; was very lacking. Bland, and forgettable, with two expansions 
 that were only slightly better than the original NWN story. Obsidian decided to put more effort 
 into their OC, while still providing a toolset, and multiplayer function and they put an admirable 
 amount effort into it... but there's still room for much improvement.
  
  Neverwinter Nights is set some time after the original NWN, and its two expansions. The plague, 
 and the war with Luskan is but a memory... and now it seems that Neverwinter is screwed yet again. 
 This time the threat is caused by a misguided King of Shadows, and this is where you come in. You 
 create a character, like in most D&amp; D based games, and the story unfolds from there.
  
  The story, while not as deep as Planescape: Torment, or Knights of the Old Republic II, is still 
 a solid piece of work. Particularly after Act I, there are plenty of interesting moments that allow 
 for a great deal of role playing. Unfortunately Act I is mostly a very long prologue, and you'll 
 spend most of your time hacking and slashing through dungeons with little to no story development. 
 Acts II and III mostly make up for this, but it would have been nice if Act I was more... interesting.
 
  
  NWN 2 like its predecessor contains a toolset that allows players to develop their own adventures. 
 It's a bit more complicated to use since there's now height mapping, and texture placement, but 
 this opens up more possibilities for creative world builders making it a significant improvement 
 over the original toolset. I have heard some complaints about multiplayer, but I generally didn't 
 use the multiplayer function in NWN, and I have little desire to use it in the sequel.
  
  Graphically NWN 2 is of course, better. Characters have more detail, but aside from that there's 
 shadows, reflective water, and better looking environments in general. Unfortunately, due to a 
 very poorly optimized engine there are some significant lag issues if you decide to turn shadows 
 on, and even if shadows are off you may find large battles with lots of magic use to be a framerate 
 killer. One nice feature of NWN 2 is height mapping, in NWN you basically had a flat plane. Sure, 
 you could raise some ground and add ramps giving you cliffs that players can walk on, but with 
 NWN 2 you can design hills and mountains that look like hills and mountains. A very nice improvement.
 
  
  In the audio department, NWN 2 recycled a lot of content from the original game. You'll recognize 
 a lot of the music, sounds, and voices from the original game. There is of course fresh voice work 
 for new story characters, but none of it is particularly impressive. There's also some new music 
 tracks, which are pretty good. I especially liked the theme from Jerro's Haven, and the operatic 
 Neverwinter theme.
  
  It should be noted that even now, Neverwinter Nights 2 has its fair share of bugs. Sometimes the 
 game may crash, and sometimes when attempting to load a game it may not load at all. Still, NWN 
 2 has a very good story campaign, and a much improved (though more difficult to master) toolset 
 for module building enthusiasts. Would I recommend it? Yes, if you're looking for a decent modern 
 Forgotten Realms RPG (or a decent RPG in general) then Neverwinter 2 is a good choice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterInsan0
Rating: 5.6
Date: Jul 16, 2007 9:15 pm PT
Review:  A very large majority of players came from the first NWN to the sequel right at the start, and 
 I was one of them. I picked it up the very day it came out, along with Final Fantasy 12, which 
 had also just come out, and sped back to my dorm room in joy. I probably shouldn't have sped.
 
  
  A part of me wishes I hadn't kept up with the development of this game, because not knowing its 
 background, and how it was made, would really help me ease past some of the mistakes made by NWN2. 
 Let me explain a little about the making of NWN2:
  
  1. Bioware gives Obsidian the code to the NWN Engine.
  2. Obsidian rips out the rendering code 
 and...
  3. ... places their own, proprietary code in.
  4. Obsidian revises the hybrid-NWN engine, adding in functionality here and there.
  5. The game 
 is developed around the new amalgamation, the Electron Engine.
  
  I skipped over a few parts, but these are the important parts in understanding my frustration with 
 this game.
  
  So, Obsidian has the code to the NWN engine, which at this point includes levels 1-40, an excellent, 
 nearly unsurpassed interface (surpassed only by World of Warcraft, a game that lives and dies by 
 its interface) , and a game that is mostly bug free gameplay-wise. That is, most of the classes 
 work as advertised, the feats work, and such. Somehow, they manage to butcher it so that there 
 are no epic levels (to be added in expansions, I'm sure) , the interface is a weak, pale imitation 
 of its former self, and a large portion of character feats and spells do not work, or work incorrectly. 
 The interface is the worst of these, taking away everything good about NWN's and leaving everything 
 bad. For example, in order to cast a spell on a creature, you must select him, which, if you're 
 wielding a melee weapon, causes you to run toward him to attack him. Then, when you click on the 
 ground to stop running toward him, he is deselected. So, with no target, you hit the hotkey for 
 your spell, then click on the target. Finally you get to cast your spell.
  
  Or, let's say you want to try to disarm a secondary opponent while keeping focus on your primary 
 target. If you click on the other target, you change focus to him, which isn't what you want. So, 
 you hit the hotkey button, only to have it try to disarm your primary opponent. In order to choose 
 to disarm the secondary guy, you would have to click off of your target, which disengages you from 
 combat (?!) and makes you flatfooted, so you get hit more often. THEN, and only then, you can hit 
 the hotkey for Disarm and click on the secondary guy. But, if you're going to do all that, you 
 may as well just switch targets, since you'll take less damage that way.
  
  If these were the only flaws of the game, I would still love it, but it goes much deeper. The new 
 graphics engine they put in looks great... in theory. Character models are much more detailed and 
 customizable, the outdoor areas should be gorgeous given that the designer can mold them however 
 he wishes now, and the spell effects are... well, they're different, and anything different from 
 the ones used by NWN1 are alright by me since after a time you tire of the same 'ol effects.
  
  In practice, the game looks like utter trash. The original NWN wasn't Oblivion quality by any 
 means, but it was crisp and concise. NWN2 looks like someone got mud on my screen. Sure, the models 
 have more polygons, but those polygons are textured with what appears to be mud. Almost every texture 
 in the game looks like it had to be converted to a lower resolution for some reason. At first, 
 I thought it was just the area I was in, since it was a marshland and supposed to be muddy, but 
 I was proven wrong when I left the starter area. The grass looks like someone laid out green carpet 
 and then pushed blades of grass up through it. Armor textures look more akin to sandpaper than 
 shiny steel.
  
  What's even more confusing is the fact that the game requires a massive machine to run well. A 
 system that can run Oblivion well will run NWN2 well, even though the games are no where close 
 in graphics detail. My theory, then, is that both the crappy graphics and ridiculously high specs 
 are due to the inexperienced programmers at Obsidian. For most of the games their team members 
 have been famous for (Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic 2, the Icewind Dale series as Black 
 Isle) , they have only been taking a pre-made engine and adding new content onto it. Their experience 
 with actually crafting graphics engines and the like is probably rather low.
  
  Also quite disappointing is the reuse of the biggest majority of NWN sounds, music, and voice sets. 
 Normally, this would not be so bad, since even the greats such as Baldur's Gate and Baldur's Gate 
 2 reused sounds and voices. The difference is that BG and BG2 were very obviously directly related, 
 and starred a number of the same characters. NWN1 and NWN2 are barely comparable, however, especially 
 on the surface. If you were to show a random person a screenshot of NWN1 and then a shot of NWN2, 
 they wouldn't be able to tell the relation of the two, other than oh look they're fantasy games. 
 Show someone a shot of BG1 vs. BG2 and the similarities -- and improvements -- are immediately visible.
 
  
  As a result of the disconnect between NWN and its sequel, the reuse of sounds, voices, and music 
 is jarring. Also, I'm damned sick of that music, because I've been listening to it for like five 
 years. Also, since no new voice sets have been added, it feels a little sloppy, as though they 
 just didn't have time to record them (or never planned to upgrade that feature) .
  
  All of this is still forgivable, however. After all, as they say, graphics don't matter, the gameplay 
 does, and even the slaughtered controls can be worked around fairly quickly by simply hot-keying 
 EVERYTHING (since there is no more radial menu) . No, the game makes one unforgivable mistake that 
 completely ruins the game for me and many others from the NWN1 community.
  
  They raped the toolset. Destroy is not a strong enough word for what they did to the toolset, and 
 even rape is rather light. And I don't take rape lightly. I'm not complaining about the new, added 
 complexity of it; it *is* a better toolset after you get used to the changes. But it doesn't matter. 
 You could create the greatest and most beautiful world ever, and it wouldn't matter, because you'll 
 never be able to share it with anyone.
  
  Indeed, in order for another player to play in your world, they require a certain file created 
 during the final creation process of the module. The same was true in NWN1 -- players required the 
 module data to play. The difference two-fold.
  
  In NWN1, you automatically downloaded the module when you connected to the a server. No hassle, 
 no fuss. In NWN2? Nope. It makes you go to an external website -- one that the module creator or 
 server administrator must provide -- and download the module. Why is this such a hassle?
  
  In NWN1, the module files were up to 10 MB for rather large worlds. However, they were downloaded 
 in chunks so that the entire download didn't hit the player at once. This made them easily transferable, 
 and therefore a player could just randomly click on a server and join it. In NWN2, the required 
 files can occupy entire GIGABYTES!! for large worlds. That's right, GIGABYTES. But that's an extreme; 
 most of the time, they only weigh in at about 250 MB for decent-sized modules.
  
  However, 250 MB is most certainly not something that is easily downloaded when casually joining 
 a server, and it is definitely not clear what you're supposed to do. Assuming someone new to NWN2 
 wants to play your game, they must:
  
  1. Log in.
  2. Create a character.
  3. Figure out that they don't have the required files when the game crashes.
  4. Figure out where 
 to download the file. Conveniently (sarcasm) , they give you a space in the server options to place 
 a link.
  5. Spend anywhere from 5 minutes to hours downloading this file.
  6. Find out where to put it.
  7. Log in again.
  8. Now you're ready to play.
  
  Sure, your 
 friends might be willing to go through all of that to play your game, but there's no way in hell 
 a random stranger is going to join your game. Even if he knows the process well enough to isolate 
 it down to only Step 5, it still takes a VERY extended period of time to join a game and play, 
 making it simply not a good choice for most people. So, most people will tinker with the toolset, 
 play the included Single Player Campaign, and then toss the game aside like they do every other 
 game. This is completely contradictory to NWN1, which STILL has an avid following today.
  
  There's not much left they can do to fix this atrocity. After something like 5 or 6 patches, the 
 game slowly manages to become what it should have been back in October 2006. The expansion is looming 
 right over the horizon, and I'm sure that will repair a little more of the damage. However, once 
 you rape something, you can never un-rape it. It will take them a lot of time -- and therefore a 
 lot of money -- to fix the problem of having to download excessively large files to play on any server. 
 Unfortunately, the cost involved almost guarantees it will never get done. Obsidian would much 
 rather work on more profitable ventures, like their expansion packs, than fix the most game-breaking 
 bug in NWN2.
  
  Even given my initial problems with the game, I still found it to be superior to the first NWN. 
 I mean, they spent something like 3 or 4 years on the game, so it has to be a pretty good improvement 
 on the NWN engine, right? I was going to build a persistent world in the fresh, uncharted territory 
 of the NWN2 community,
  
  I mentioned at the very beginning that there was some significance to the fact that I purchased 
 both NWN2 and FF12 on the same day. NWN2 left me with a sort of hollow feeling. It was a game that 
 should have been so much better, improving on all the negative aspects of NWN1 (cookie-cutter areas, 
 limited graphics, poor single-player campaign) and keeping the positive, essentially becoming the 
 next great PC RPG. Instead, it managed to mangle the original game while trying to improve it, 
 almost like a botched surgery. FF12 left me feeling the exact same way: utterly disappointed. That 
 day sucked.
  
  Summarizing scores:
  Gameplay 6 - Because the controls blow and a lot of the important class features and feats are 
 still broken.
  Graphics 7 - They're better than NWN1 from a distance, but once you zoom in or do anything too 
 flashy it starts to look like mud. Also they manage to require Oblivion-level hardware while looking 
 more akin to Morrowind.
  Sound 6 - While the sound is good, it's mostly reused from NWN1, and in a game so different from 
 its prequel, this is bad.
  Value 6 - If you only care about playing this game once, for the original campaign, and are willing 
 to spend 50 bucks on it, it might be a slightly-above-mediocre deal. However, if you expect a usable 
 toolset, new sounds, good graphics, etc. from it, you will be disappointed.
  Tilt 4 - I'm definitely not happy about the toolset being crap, and hearing the same old voices 
 and music from NWN1 left a bad taste in my mouth that I just can't shake. Even after something 
 like 15 hours of playing it, I find myself trying to right click on stuff to open a radial menu 
 so that I can examine objects or cast spells.
  
  Final: 5.6
  
  Good luck with this game... if you're smart, you'll box it up and put it away for a year or two. 
 Then, you can pretend it just came out, and it might be a worthy game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GreySeven
Rating: 4.4
Date: Jul 16, 2007 3:15 pm PT
Review:  I really wanted this game for a while, and for a long time after I had bought it I was waiting 
 for NWN2 to be my release from WoW. But that never happened.
  
  To start off, I played DnD when I was a kid. I was a big fan. As I got older, not so much, but 
 then NWN came along. I was a big fan of that too. Until I figured out the map editor. Then the 
 appeal of the game dropped off for me. Why so? I cheated. Made an awesome piece of armor, made 
 an awesome weapon, accessories, and barged through the game unchallenged. I called it quits after 
 that.
  
  Anyway, NWN2 was supposed to be the game that got me off WoW. I was hoping it would. In fact, I 
 even went so far as to leave early one night off WoW and installed NWN2 to try it out. I lost interest 
 quickly.
  
  It took me about an hour to get my character right. I read the book, played with the options, played 
 with the point system, little talent play, all that kind of stuff. When I had gotten it right, 
 and right away after starting, I wasn't interested in the plot. It was almost a carbon copy of 
 NWN. You're participating in this event (training) which you master quickly and then monsters attack. 
 Instead, though, of starting in the city and recovering lost creatures to start, you are on a solo 
 mission to leave your hometown. You elf-step-dad sends you away to basically come face-to-face 
 with your destiny. First off, during that hour I spent making my character, I wrote a little history 
 about him. It had nothing to do with the story, and that pissed me off. But I kept playing. I leave 
 the town and go on my adventure and I find a dwarf brawling in a bar. He wants to join me. I hate 
 dwarfs IRL. So of course I say no. I keep going, get my first spells as a hybrid warrior/mage, 
 and then realize that I don't like the NWN/DND system in my gameplay anymore. I cast FIREBALL! 
 then I can't cast it again until I rest a day though the NPCs had no trouble nuking me. That was 
 the end of the game for me.
  
  This review is unfair, even in my own eyes. I don't expect many to agree with it, and I think under 
 different conditions/timing/I wasn't addicted to WoW at the time, this game might have done really 
 well with me. If so, I will leave it for a while, and come back in a year with a better review. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pmart2
Rating: 1
Date: Jul 14, 2007 2:48 pm PT
Review:  And I really tried. Like so many others, I looked forward to this game for a long time. When I 
 opened and installed it, I was met with that same wonderful anticipation of a great and wonderful 
 new adventure. All the more bitter was the disapointment once I started to play. I could, as I 
 have before, go into great detail as to why I rate this game as one of the biggest let downs in 
 my 30+ year gaming history, but that would only rip the scab off the wound again. Suffice it to 
 say it's like watching one of your old friends sell out and lose whatever honor he (or she) had 
 left. I will not look forward to buying another game anytime soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DADA_007
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 13, 2007 11:13 am PT
Review:  Neverwinter theatre
  
  When you play NWN 2 for fifteen minutes you start to realize that you came to the theatre and watching 
 some performance. Its actions depend on scenario so the game sometimes prevents you from controlling 
 it and controls it itself to show us the next vignette that influences the plot. Our hero is one 
 of the actors. As a rule he plays a role of a judge whose duty is to steer other characters onto 
 the right path. Or the wrong path &amp;#8211; our hero must not be a kind and law-abiding man. 
 If the guards ask you what they have to do and you answer that they should go to drink some beer 
 you will be classified as a chaotic. If you answer is: &amp;#8220; prepare to die&amp;#8221; then 
 you have chosen the dark side of the Force. Sometimes you have to choose the lesser of two evils. 
 And to make the best variant you are provided with answers marked with words &amp;#8220; Bluff&amp;#8221;, 
   and &amp;#8220; Lie&amp;#8221;. 
 Of course, all these variants are available only if you have developed some useful skills.
  
  But the plot actually depends on scripts not on our hero&amp;#8217; s will. Be ready: at any 
 moment of time you may be attacked by orcs or a house behind your back may burn or a character 
 who gave you a task may just die. Everything depends on scenario and makes a hint that we should 
 not postpone our affairs for tomorrow because it may never come. There is no free world like it 
 was in Gothic 3 or Oblivion. And we will be reminded about that for many times during the game.
 
  
  Plot can hardly be called an original one. This is the law of fantasy: all the moves were invented 
 by the classics, copied by their disciples and burlesqued by Bard's Tale. But NWN 2 is not boring 
 because its plot is quite dynamic so time will go quickly while playing. Of course, if you are 
 patient enough to listen and read enormous dialogues (some of them last for half an hour) . We will 
 know about further events from them.
  
  The tasks are immortal like the genre itself: to kill somebody, to bring something or to reach 
 some object. To complete a task you just have to take a look at a register, to follow hints of 
 a prompter and to use an instruction. You cannot pass the limit of instructions because of the 
 plot which is the most important thing in NWN 2. But sometimes you have two different ways of actions 
 provided in register so you may even choose. For example, a robber is not made to become a city 
 guard, he may work for a gang. But you will never meet the tasks when you may act on your consideration.
 
  
  Constructor of heroes
  
  D&amp; D role system continued to develop during four years passed since NWN appeared. So its latest 
 edition - D&amp; D 3.5 &amp;#8211; was used in NWN 2. Rules of a new role system resemble ones of 
 the first NWN but, of course, there are some differences. For example, we have a new race called 
 planetouched here. Its representatives are descendants of human and supernatural beings: angels 
 and demons. The most of races are subdivided into nationalities &amp;#8211; for example, there 
 are Draw, Wood, Sun and Moon Elves.
  
  A list of classes was complemented with Warlock. This is a magus who may cast unlimited amount 
 of spells a day. Some new prestige-classes appeared: Arcane Trickster, Divine Champion, Duelist, 
 Eldritch Knight, Frenzied Berserker, Harper Agent, Mystic Theurge, Neverwinter Nine, Sacred Fist, 
 Shadow Thief of Amn, War Priest and Weapons Master. So now every ordinary class corresponds to 
 prestige-class. But nothing prevents us from mixing them as multiclass characters were more vital 
 than monoclass ones in NWN. As for admirers of such prestige classes as Arcane Archer, Harper Scout, 
 Champion of Torm and Shifter, I must disappoint them &amp;#8211; these classes were eliminated 
 from NWN 2.
  
  Besides you may choose your hero&amp;#8217; s past now. Maybe he was always good at cock-and-bull 
 stories telling? So he will be good at diplomacy now but he will have bad concentration as well. 
 Each prehistory has its own advantages and disadvantages. And if you don&amp;#8217; t like it you 
 may not use prehistory at all.
  
  Of course, changes of the rules are not concerned with hero creation only. For example, in NWN 
 2 you are able to make up your own weapons, armor and to prepare elixirs. Of course you need appropriate 
 skills, book with recipes, ingredients required and a special table for that. And you will have 
 to find very rare ingredients for making a really good elixir. So that&amp;#8217; s a wonderful 
 reason to pass the game several times.
  
  In NWN 2 our team may consist of four characters exclusive of quest NPC that join us for some time. 
 Each member of the team may be equipped on your consideration. Besides you may teach him, increase 
 his level and fill your spellbook with spells. You even may control one of the members of your 
 team. Artificial intellect will control all the others. But do not rely on it too much: there are 
 a lot of tasks AI is unable to cope with in the game. For example, if AI sees orc-archers hiding 
 in a roadblock it may just&amp;#8230; lose its consciousness! So make a pause, and give reasonable 
 orders to each character. You may also leave some of them in a tavern and use other heroes you 
 think are more appropriate for your task. So you may try to pass the game using characters of different 
 classes &amp;#8211; so to say in demo-version mode.
  
  Companions of main hero in NWN 2 have their own points of view in almost all the problems we may 
 run across. If you endorse your fellow&amp;#8217; s opinion your reputation will increase for him. 
 And loyal companion may give you quite a reasonable and useful advice in future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ekisom
Rating: 4.6
Date: Jul 12, 2007 11:59 pm PT
Review:  Obsidian did a great job of destroying the dungeons and dragons franchise which once deservedly 
 made a gamespot score of a perfect 10 for baldur's gate. The graphics are a little better than 
 the first neverwinter nights series however it ends there; everything else about neverwinter nights 
 2 are a devolution compared to the previous series for example - The animations are primitive and 
 unrealistic where combat no longer shows dodge, parry, retention of arrow shots etc. The story 
 line is uninspired and quite boring. Gameplay and experience have been returned to its primitive 
 and basic form and restricted up to level 20 (we've all been there before) . Controls and navigation 
 are frustrating. The map lost its transparency and so on.. There is simply nothing good to say 
 about Neverwinter Nights 2.
  
  I'm giving EXTRA penalty for literally destroying the previously best game experience i have had 
 with BioWare and Neverwinter Nights 1 series. Thank you obsidian and thank you atari, hasbro and 
 dungeon's and dragons for allowing this to happen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnnyb47
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 8, 2007 7:21 am PT
Review:  This sequel to Bioware's 2002 classic proves to be an all-round memorable game, with solid graphics, 
 professional voice-acting, a lengthy, yet never tiresome storyline and a new-and-improved version 
 of the trademark Dungeons and Dragons gameplay system.
  
  It is that very system that makes Neverwinter Nights 2 really shine, and lends this game the complexity 
 needed to be hard to truly master, while still being easy enough to get into for newcomers to the 
 D&amp; D rule set. This is because while custom creation of a successful character may require extensive 
 knowledge and pre-planning, you can always select the sure-fire Recommended character development 
 settings, which will provide you with powerful, if somewhat generic character builds. Neverwinter 
 Nights 2 brings a host of new races and classes to choose from, while also tweaking the existing 
 ones and repairing a good number of flaws present in past iterations of the game. You can now pick 
 from a host of powerful subraces, and even level in a number of new prestige classes unique to 
 this game. All choices are well explained, so you're not wading in the dark when it comes to character 
 development  should you take the time to read the details. Moreover, the game offers such a wide 
 choice of character builds, and so many paths to take based on how you level your game avatar, 
 that one play-through may not be enough to get the most of this game.
  
  The combat system follows the tried-and-true formula used in the original Neverwinter Nights, based 
 on dice rolls, character skills and allowing you to pause at any time to give orders to members 
 of your party or even take direct control of any of them. Character AI however, is a mixed blessing, 
 as even though you won't generally have to babysit your companions all the time, as they are fairly 
 self-sufficient, there will be moments when they will take the wrong decision, or worse yet, no 
 decision at all, simply standing and watching you get beaten to death. Nevertheless, you'll be 
 able to fine-tune these behaviors through a set of options for each companion, or set them to puppet 
 mode, should you prove to be a micromanagement nut. All in all, combat will turn out to be a minor, 
 mostly manageable headache, on normal difficulty settings. The hardest setting, however, will practically 
 require you to micromanage everything, as your companions' splash damage spells will hurt you as 
 well as your enemies.
  
  Two glaring flaws mar this game, one being the camera, the other being pathfinding. Details aside, 
 it's safe to say that none works as intended. The camera, in spite of having a ton of options and 
 modes, will never be in the right place, and the objects that need to be visible will generally 
 be obscured either by your companions, or by the scenery. You'll have the option to play from a 
 top-down, isometric perspective, as well as third-person view, but you'll always have to incessantly 
 move around to get a direct line of sight to the objects of interest. Coupled with this is the 
 mostly broken pathfinding, which will even freeze or slow down your game at times when you have 
 more than the usual 3 companions along with you. Characters will often take detours to get to the 
 right spot, assuming they'll consider it's possible at all, nevermind the clear path ahead. This 
 will lead to the enemy hitting your companions in combat, while they run around apparently aimlessly, 
 and even to them sitting back and not helping you at all.
  
  Graphics-wise, Neverwinter Nights looks good, but doesn't stand out too well compared to other 
 games. On the plus side, the textures look sharp, models are generally well detailed, everything 
 is bump-mapped, special effects are flashy, colorful and varied, and the lighting, when turned 
 to maximum, really manages to transform the game, but also to bring anything less than a top-of-the-line 
 PC to its knees. The really bad part is that all animation in this game looks to be a real immersion 
 breaker. Besides being choppy at times, character animations are rather few, and get overly repetitive, 
 leading to characters which have the appearance and movement of plastic puppets.
  
  As for sound, there isn't very much to it, apart from the sporadic clinging of swords and spell 
 effects that are generally heard in battle. This doesn't mean that they are badly done, but rather 
 that they don't give the necessary audible cues of a living, breathing world. Music is also by 
 and large negligible, though varied enough and adaptable to the situation you'll find yourself 
 in. There just doesn't seem to be any spark of genius to the music, and thus it is easily ignored.
 
  
  The dialogue, however, is worthy of any AAA title, being superbly written, long, varied, offering 
 real choices and unlike the original Neverwinter Nights, featuring professional voice acting. Each 
 character has his own sound, reflecting his personality, and has a lot to say about himself, you, 
 the world around him, and even about the other companions. They will even make fun of one another 
 or argue over the necessary course of action and have you choose between settling the matter or 
 taking the side of either of them. The main character's skills are also tied into dialogue, as 
 at times you'll be presented with the option of taunting, bluffing or demonstrating your diplomatic 
 skills in ways which frequently alter the course of the game, or the standing of your companions 
 towards you.
  
  The story of Neverwinter Nights 2 is a long-winding saga of saving Faerun from yet another impending 
 doom, filled with a good number of (somewhat) unexpected twists and turns that keep the story engaging 
 throughout the entire 50 or 60-odd hours of play required to see the single-player campaign to 
 an end. Following the classic peasant-to-hero line of storytelling, Neverwinter Nights 2 will have 
 you progress through all the stages in-between, including rural savior, unwitting chosen one, servant 
 to the king, and even owner of a castle. While the main events that drive the game are fixed, your 
 choices will bear enough significance to alter the playing experience, and even the end result 
 of the story, making you more than an avatar that wades through one scripted event after another 
 before confronting the final boss.
  
  Due to the presence of the easy to master Toolset, and of an active community, the game is bound 
 to have a long life, even disregarding all the multiplayer options and the upcoming add-on (s) . 
 There already are a host of user-made MODs and campaigns freely available on the Internet, with 
 the promise of more to come. Consequently, you can create your own custom adventures and share 
 them, as the Toolset includes rich content and a flexible and user-friendly interface.
  
  Multiplayer consists of on-line play with up to three other players, and you'll be able to play 
 the single-player campaign in cooperative mode, with some customization options, as well as any 
 other user-made campaign that is enabled for multiplayer.
  
  The bottom line is that Neverwinter Nights 2 is more than worth your money, featuring solid production 
 values, an engaging story, good graphics and the intricate D&amp; D ruleset to hold your attention 
 and test your mastery. Even after you're through with what it offers out-of-the-box, you'll always 
 find more content on-line and through add-ons, so at least until the next sequel rolls out, which 
 isn't likely to be anytime soon, you'll have a ton of fantasy RPG-ing to do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: enver_majid
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jun 28, 2007 12:00 pm PT
Review:  I played this once back in December and am currently playing it through again, hoping that with 
 the updates and patches in the last 6 months, it would be a better experience. Unfortunately it 
 is only marginally so. The only good thing about the game is its great (albeit cliched) story. 
 Everything else boils down to horrendous bugs, laughable AI, and LUDICRIOUSLY difficult enemies 
 towards the end... you either have to be a lunatic or seriously lacking in other stuff to do with 
 your life if you manage to finish it without the cheats. The hardware requirements are also unwarranted 
 provided the overrated graphics. I've played far more demanding games on my computer with far better 
 frames than this Obsidian bastardization of an otherwise promising franchise.
  Oh and if you play the game aiming for the good-alignment ending, prepare to be uber-frustrated. 
 Pack up and go home Obsidian. Or apply for a job with Microsoft. I hear they're into bugs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmvillafana
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 24, 2007 1:53 pm PT
Review:  The game is quite fun particularly when you start as everything is new. As you continue playing 
 it , it becomes a little repetitive. There are no new visual effects on new spells and the part 
 where you build your own castle is boring. The traveling map is somewhat confusinng as it changes 
 its destination options as the game moves on.
  The most frustrating part for me was that the dragons are usually to hard to kill by the time you 
 reach them. The story is sometimes convoluted and difficult to follow. Even it is quite open, you 
 feel that someone is mandating the storyline. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vapor188
Rating: 6.9
Date: Jun 23, 2007 7:06 am PT
Review:  Neverwinter Nights 2 is a game loaded with that epic feel that everyone craves from a great rpg. 
 You can sense the epicness of the game through its classic story of an evil force attempting to 
 take over the world through an apocalyptic campaign. You can hear it through the mysterious music. 
 You can interact with it through the thousands of weapons, armor, and enchanted item combinations. 
 You can see it through that brick wall that is in between the camera and your character.
  
  Okay, so Neverwinter Nights 2 has all the things a great adventure rpg needs. The storyline is 
 there, the limitless weapons could leave you playing Mr. Potato Head, for hours, and the music 
 is exactly what you would expect from this type of game. The gameplay, however, is tentative at 
 best. If you have never played DND, Neverwinter Nights 1, or any other DND based game, chances 
 are, you will be struggling to understand the combat lingo that occurs without the instruction 
 booklet. If you don't have the patience to read a page or two, then odds are you won't like this 
 game.
  
  Patience is key in another part of gameplay. There are so many bugs, glitches, and just poor design 
 to this game, that you will have a very difficult time understanding exactly what is happening. 
 I could go on and on about how many glitches there are in this game, but I'll just list a few. 
 Obviously, as hundreds of people have said before, the camera flat out sucks. There is absolutely 
 no way to find a proper camera angle in the middle of all the congested cities and dungeons. The 
 cut scenes often have characters disappearing for some odd reason, or randomly running off the 
 screen. The final glitch I feel like mentioning (because believe me, I could go on) would be characters 
 in your party refusing to follow you into battle when you most desperately need them.
  
  Glitches aside, this game will not be widely acclaimed for its stellar graphics, but they aren't 
 bad. As I said, the music is everything you expect from a game like this, and the turn-based combat 
 can be engaging with the right amount of patience.
  
  Overall, this game falls short of what it could be. This game could be overflowing with greatness, 
 but its overabundant technical flaws take away from the experience. However, with the unlimited 
 possibilities in character direction that has been shown many times before through BioWare's famous 
 dialogue sequences, the game has surprisingly high replay value, though chances of you actually 
 wanting to play through a complete game the second time are relatively low. I would not pay full 
 price for this game, but if you find it for $20, it is worth your time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: manifestus
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jun 11, 2007 12:28 pm PT
Review:  By the time I picked up NWN2, I already knew some general points about the game -- it was akin 
 to NWN1, featured a stronger storyline, and had an updated interface. Delving into the package 
 (installation was a breeze) , I booted the game up and was ready to go. After a solid week of playing 
 this title, I feel I'm able to give a tentative summary of what worked and what didn't work so 
 well with me. The campaign: Unlike NWN1, the main campaign in NWN2 felt more personalized and less 
 cookie cutter, although some of the same fetchquest elements and uninspired dialogue remains. From 
 a personal perspective, I felt that Obsidian could have improved upon the weaknesses inherent to 
 NWN1 (regarding the main campaign) more than it did; however, at least an attempt was evident and 
 the main campaign is by no means completely boring. The largest complaint I log herein is the fact 
 that the main campaign left me with the same feeling KOTOR2 did -- incomplete. The game builds 
 up pretty nicely but somewhere along the way decides to rush and mash as many plotlines together 
 as it can; leaving gamers like myself with a incredulous look on our faces and a sick feeling in 
 our stomachs. Graphics: Basically, the graphics suck. I'd try to phrase this nicely but the problem 
 is ... I can't. There is minimal improvement from the CEP packs in NWN1 and based on how much this 
 game decides to suck up processing power on my middling CoreDuo2 mid-tier machine, I'm logging 
 heavy complaints. Oblivion has framerate stutters if I max out viewdistance or go overboard on 
 community texture packs; NWN2 stutters around like a cripple with 3 legs when I get attacked by 
 10 enemies. Turning off some components (notably shadows) smooths things out a lot, but that's 
 just horrifically bad code optimization. Sound:
  I didn't really notice it much, and that's a good thing. Then again, this isn't going to be winning 
 any awards, so we'll leave it at that. Online:
  I'm not certain what sort of mod support is out there yet, as I've only fiddled with a few mods, 
 but if it's anything like the NWN1 community, this is going to be another one of those ridiculously 
 well supported community-oriented games. The online component works well, though I did run into 
 some latency issues while hosting games, something that really SHOULDN'T happen unless the coding 
 scheme sucked. Since the graphical coding optimization is obviously crap, I guess I can't cry too 
 much about online optimization being only sometimes-crap. Overall:
  When it comes down to it, I had fun dropping this on my computer and whittling a few hours here 
 and there playing it. It's not by any means the next great RPG, but it does come packaged with 
 the necessary materials for you to DESIGN the next great NWN2 module. The campaign was of middling 
 length and decently fun, and the online component works well enough that it isn't something that'll 
 end up with you bashing your computer with a baseball bat. The sheer amount of content and online 
 mod availability together make the value of a product such as NWN2 amazingly high. At the end of 
 the day, a game is meant to be an enjoyable experience -- and NWN 2 does deliver the requisite 
 amount of fun to make it worth picking up for your gaming pile. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ocelotpoo
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jun 6, 2007 7:44 am PT
Review:  Neverwinter Nights 2 seemed quite promising prior to its release and I had high hopes for the sequel 
 to one of my favorite RPG series of all times. Unfortunately, Neverwinter Nights 2 seemed very 
 closed off in comparison to the original. I was disappointed to find out that many of the buildings 
 in the game are just for show and the environment, while looking interesting, is really quite boring. 
 One of the interesting features that has been added to the game, is the interactions with members 
 of your party, who you can control, but are fundamentally NPCs. It is quite fun to talk to your 
 party members and try to get them to like you and follow your commands. The other interactions 
 with NPCs in the game are also fun, allowing you to use your characters social abilities to persuade 
 characters to listen to you. Although the game just isn't as fun as the original, it can still 
 be worth playing and will certainly distract Dungeons and Dragons fans and hardcore RPG players 
 for many hours. It is just sad to see such a great series going downhill this way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doriard
Rating: 6.6
Date: Jun 1, 2007 12:07 am PT
Review:  For a game that was released in late 2006, the graphics and sound are very disappointing. Only 
 a small percentage of dialog is actually spoken (sound) by the characters, compared to Oblivion's 
 100% spoken dialog. The point-of-view is poorly designed as well -- It neither has Obilvion's first 
 person, nor trailing 3rd person view. Even the type of viewpoint design is not implemented well. 
 Knights of the Old Republic has a similar player point-of-view, but it works much better in that 
 game. The player controls were so annoying to me that I just gave up after about 10 hours. It just 
 wasn't very fun compared to other games that are so much better (like the two mentioned above) . 
 How did this game ever get such a high rating??? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlexSupreme
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 27, 2007 5:28 am PT
Review:  Neverwinter Nights 2 is exactly as it's described, a mind blowing version of the old pen &amp; 
 paper game.
  
  Gameplay:
  The gameplay in nwn2 is rather challenging and has a great variety of moves and abilities that 
 you may use to win a battle.
  Unlike some other games I've played, you have to take into account the territory you are in (If 
 it's a small room, you might want some melee advantage, if it's an open area, fall back and attack 
 from a far) , you must know exactly what your team mates are capable of and their abilities, and 
 you have to arrange your team accordingly.
  
  The battles might remind some of you of KOTOR2 (Star Wars - Knight of the Old Republic 2) but with 
 a lot more abilities and factors.
  
  Graphics:
  Before I'm beginning to criticize their graphics, let me remind you that it's meant to be viewed 
 from quite a far, like GTA 2.
  In any case, the graphics are quite deep and the armor designs fit the characters quite well! the 
 areas such as dungeons, houses and vast green areas were very well done.
  
  Those who played Gothic 2 might know what I'm talking about when I say that you get the feeling 
 of the area and the time, when you can actually feel as if you belong to the story.
  
  Sounds:
  One aspect that really makes this game better than any other is the sounds.
  You might 
 not have the forest background noise or the voices of the swamps but the conversations between 
 the characters really made the game worthwhile.
  
  *SPOLER*
  When you (if you have high diplomacy) outsmart your opponent in the court and you can actually 
 hear her voice shaking under your claims. That's what I call good voice acting!
  
  Value:
  Since you have such a marvelous variety of characters, skills, spells, abilities, armory 
 and weaponry to choose and craft, this game is bound to take more than just few hours.
  As a great RPG and Action RPG fan, I had to try the weirdest and the most interesting classes to 
 play such as bard, warlock, sorcerer and rogue, and I must say that I still had not enough.
  
  What I enjoyed the most is that with every class you pick, you change your tactics entirely, 
 for example; if you play a rogue, in most cases you'd be running around the combat area, backstabbing 
 unsuspecting enemies. If you're a sorcerer or a wizard you'd be supporting your team from the back 
 and casting single target spells or AOE (area of effect) spells.
  If you're a warlock, you'd probably vary between melee and ranged attacks and so on. Pure pleasure 
 is trying to find the class that suits you the best.
  
  Summary:
  I'm a guy that can be easily taken back by a large variety of possibilities within a game, and 
 this is one of those games.
  The graphics are not the best and it definitely has it's share of bugs and graphic flaws, but when 
 you see a game that lets you create a character EXACTLY the way you like it, lets you take decisions 
 that could change the entire going of the story and the behavior of your party members towards 
 you, that lets you explore the world and lets you make the decisions about who lives and who dies. 
 That's a game that you should give credit to.
  
  A tiny note: you might want to go over the basic D&amp; D rules, such as AC bonuses, a bit of skills 
 spells, as they're a bit different from any other basic RPG. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phauxxee
Rating: 10
Date: May 26, 2007 12:33 pm PT
Review:  'Neverwinter Nights 2' is more than I had ever expected. I'm actually playing my 3rd time around, 
 I can't seem to get enough of the companions and the experience it gives me... as if I were playing 
 the part in an epic movie hero!
  
  Best all-around CRPG in every category; graphics are beautiful, sound and music are are excellent 
 and mood inpiring, and the experience was so exciting it had me sitting up nearly 24 hours straight 
 the first day I bought it! If ever a game made me truly feel I was totally involved and vital to 
 the storyline that's just what 'Neverwinter Nights 2' delivered for me. I can't praise it enough 
 and can't get enough of it. I am SO looking forward to 'Mask of The Betrayer' expansion pack! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dziunglius
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 24, 2007 5:08 am PT
Review:  When starting, your allowed to choose from 8 different races: Dwarf, Elf, Gnome, Halfling, Half-elf, 
 Half-orc, Human, Planetouched. Each and every race has multiple sub-races. You will choose one 
 of them and even more after that, a class tab, an alignment tab, deities... All these multiple 
 options let you create YOUR character (thats what neverwinter always was) . I've spent half an hour 
 reading all that information about races, classes....
  
  Once you've clicked the finish button, you enter the fantasy world of neverwinter. And I really 
 mean fantasy, doesn't matter your a Dwarf, an Elf or half-orc, or whatever, your father will be 
 half-elf. You'll start in a new town, which wasn't on the map in Never Winter Nights, however during 
 your journey you'll notice the old good city of Neverwinter, The port lask, the black lake district..... 
 People will even be complaining about the plague, which took so many lifes in the first neverwinter 
 part.
  
  The first thing you'll notice: graphics - erm... average. Then you'll ask yourself, what about 
 the system requirements? I was confused when my pc started lagging after a while, had to set my 
 options to lower ones, which even made the average graphics look bad. The sound is very good, but 
 there are few extra lines in the subtitles, which aren't read. The short scenes, where the characters 
 talk sometimes have some issues (atleast for me) like missing the end of a sentence.
  
  After talking to your father, You'll be sent on a training mission (as long as you don't skip the 
 tutorial) , which will lead you to your first assignment. Neverwinter 2 will just drag you in to 
 its ownsome storyline and won't let you down till you complete it. You'll become the main hero 
 of the save the world campaign. Without the main missions, there are side quests, which can be 
 completed for extra rewards, which can contain money, items, expierence.
  
  When interacting with NPC's, you will have various options, raging from various threats, bribes 
 and other possibilities to achieve the result you wish. Your henchman will gain and loose influence 
 with you, depending on your interaction with them, or other people. Usually, when one of your henchman 
 is happy with your decision, other is not, so you will have to be careful, or smth may happen if 
 you loose too much influence, not sure what tho Very Happy
  
  In nwn2 You can directly control your henchman (this may have been available in nwn 1, but didn't 
 play it much so not sure Very Happy) . This is a great thing, as you can plan your attacks and those 
 sometimes get hard. Planing lets you beat those hard places. There are a total of 12 henchman available 
 to you. They will join you after completing special quests, but you may only keep 3 (4 as you complete 
 more quests) with you at the time (there are sometimes other npcs, which join you and you may even 
 have 5 or more henchman at the time) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A_Viper
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 21, 2007 11:31 am PT
Review:  Ok I'll be honest with you, I really like Neverwinter Nights. In fact, I love it. I've played through 
 the incredibly long main adventure and the expansion packs at least four times with various character 
 types, exploring every quest and every detail to its full. I'm not into Dungeons and Dragons or 
 pencil and paper role play , I just think that the game is darn awesome. So, understandably, I 
 had very high hopes for Neverwinter Nights 2. Was I disappointed? Most definitely not.
  
  The signs leading up to this game were ominous - sequel to a massively successful game with a huge 
 cult following, change of developer and game engine, and rumblings of a weak story. Well, thankfully, 
 none of my fears materialized! This game is a fantastic adventure that builds on the strengths 
 of the original and takes it to new levels by removing the bad elements of NWN and replacing them 
 with improvements. Sure it's not without a few minor flaws, and it is not as genre-defining as 
 its revolutionary predecessor, but the flaws are purely aesthetic - in terms of gameplay, you won't 
 find much better than this.
  
  The game begins several years after the events of NWN and its expansions, and while it bares no 
 direct relation to that story, it does make reference to the events. While it is not essential 
 to know the story of the original (the dialogue fills you in on what you need to know) , it does 
 enhance the experience if you have played it. The storyline is epic, taking your character through 
 a whole host of different environments from woodland, to mountain, to crypt, to city. On the way 
 you will meet countless memorable friends and enemies, each with a unique personality. Many of 
 these characters are so well written and charming that you can't help but feel a certain attachment 
 to them, and actually care about what happens to them.
  
  This leads me nicely on to the script, which is among the best I have ever encountered in a video 
 game. It is very well written and at times genuinely funny or moving. It is essential for a RPG 
 to make the player feel as one with their character and feel that they are part of the adventure 
 - NWN2 successfully does that by taking the player on a grand adventure, full of rich characters 
 that many will be able to relate to.
  
  To match the script, the voice talent and sound are first class. The voice acting really brings 
 the characters to life, especially in the in-game cinematics (a neat new addition to this sequel) . 
 While some characters can become a little annoying due to their voices, these voices often fit 
 the nature of the character, and it is likely that there will be no character that you actively 
 dislike. One thing that did disappoint me about the sound was a few re-used background tracks from 
 the original game. While these are by no means bad, it would have been nice to have completely 
 new compositions. The wonderful voice acting makes up for this though.
  
  The adventure itself is long and varied with a first run through taking approximately 50 hours 
 of gameplay. Subsequent run-through's are shorter, and the game remains shorter than its predecessor 
 (perhaps for the better, as NWN was possibly over-long) . The adventure features many different 
 styles of mission and even features a trial that the player must complete and a mini-game involving 
 successfully managing a fortress. There are many ways that the player can achieve their goals, 
 meaning great replay value. This coupled with the huge range of character choices and customizations 
 means that every adventure is a unique experience.
  
  In terms of graphics, the game is beautiful to look at, though perhaps not as good as it should 
 be considering the steep hardware requirements. I have played the game on a brand new and powerful 
 rig, with the graphical settings at full, and it still isn't the best looking game that I've seen. 
 The hardware requirements are justified in terms of the epic battles and huge amount of party control 
 that you have when fighting armies of enemies, however I can't help but feel that the characters 
 should look a little better. Also, the storyboard sequences that occur on a few occasions do feel 
 slightly rushed and below par. Considering the beautifully drawn storyboards of the original, this 
 is quite disappointing. Please don't get me wrong, the game is still gorgeous, however considering 
 its hardware demands, one is entitled to expect it to look almost real.
  
  Playing with the latest patch, I didn't encounter any major bugs. At one point I experienced a 
 glitch where the characters would appear to be talking faster than the audio, though I'm tempted 
 to put this down to the fact that I'd been playing for around 8 straight hours at that point and 
 my PC was starting to get pretty hot! In all seriousness, make sure you have a good cooling system 
 and keep your rig well ventilated when playing this game - I had to move my tower from its place 
 under my desk to give it more ventilation as it was running real hot under the demands of this 
 game.
  
  So in all, I recommend this as an essential purchase for fans of the original game, people new 
 to the franchise, and indeed all RPG enthusiasts. It is a beautiful and lovingly crafted game featuring 
 an epic storyline, rich and charming characters, great gameplay, and enough character and in-game 
 choices to make every adventure entirely unique. Also, it is a visual and audio delight. I have 
 tried playing the story with a good Fighter class character and an evil Sorcerer class character 
 and have found that I have to adjust my style of play massively to successfully exploit the characters 
 strength and styles. With such a huge variety of character classes, feats, spells and ways of completing 
 quests, it will be a very long time before you get tired of this game. I didn't think that it would 
 be possible for the sequel to be better than the original Neverwinter Nights, but it definitely 
 is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: recca_nitr
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 20, 2007 11:36 pm PT
Review:  this is one of the best role playing games i have ever played. it certainly has some hardware issues 
 but i would suggest its worth to try it. the story is full of suspense and is extremely nice. the 
 varios caracters and their abilities and levels are an amazing thing. this is one game all have 
 to play. there is also some problem with the camera views but i think free view is the best but 
 i hangs at some point but any way its entertaining and seems to be a bit lengthy but as the story 
 is good it supports it. the weapons and its specialization and the magic ands to the gameplay the 
 classy edge. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Farscape1812
Rating: 3.7
Date: May 20, 2007 6:37 pm PT
Review:  I went into this game with high hopes, but realized very fast that Neverwinter Nights is a major 
 disappointment. It starts with the creation of the characters, which I will say is not that bad, 
 but when the game starts, and you are allowed to see the environment you are about to spend all 
 your time in, this is where you see Neverwinter Nights show its faults. The graphics on this engine 
 is horrible. With the names behind this game you would have thought the graphics engine would have 
 been better. If this was made by a first time RPG game creator this review would not be so harsh, 
 but given who is behind this game I can not ignore the faults Neverwinter Nights 2 has. One of 
 the Major problems I have with this game is the linear path you must take to get around the world. 
 This is my second review, and both reviews where on an RPG that was limited by your characters 
 ability explore the surroundings you are in. Another bad point to this game is the way in which 
 the story plays out. I felt that the story has already been told, and I am just following the line 
 to the end with Neverwinter Nights. I would have to say the last thing, and the most awful part 
 of the game, is how you move your character! For the love of GOD, can there be any worse control 
 on a game system than this? I felt I was back in Ultima 7 (1992) moving around, but this has to 
 be worse than that, being that you have the camera to fight with! You open a door and run in the 
 room only to be lost by the angle the camera has taken. This has to be the worst game control I 
 have ever had to deal with, and this is a modern game system? WOW! Very disappointed! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MagicTestacle
Rating: 3.9
Date: May 19, 2007 9:38 pm PT
Review:  O. k. , First of all, I've played almost every Bioware game worth playing, enjoyed myself and gave 
 every worthy game a 9-10 on my ranking list.
  I just love good sophisticated RPGs, my all time favourite is Fallout 2, after a patch or two - 
 The perfect game in my opinion. I've played Planescape : Torment and loved it, Baldur's Gate 1 
 &amp; 2, Morrowind, Oblivion, Gothic, TOEE, and in short, almost every possible RPG on the list 
 of Similar Games to your right, including the nearly perfect game - Neverwinter Nights + Expansions, 
 I just loved it.
  
  Now, I have never faced a RPG, let alone a D&amp; D based one, that made my new computer stutter 
 for more than 0.1 sec while running MSN messenger in the background and sometimes Winamp and eMule, 
 and I'm not talking about an isometric 2D game like Fallout... I'm talking Gothic 3, almost full 
 graphic settings, Jade Empire with max settings (+Winamp &amp; eMule &amp; Messenger) , even Oblivion 
 doesn't irritate me with its little hiccups once in a while.
  
  BUT, I guess that the guys at Obsidian or whatever decided they wanted to feel like they managed 
 to make a change or advancement if you will, to the big bad hardware competition, by designing 
 a game that looks no better than Bard's Tale, D&amp; D-style controlled like Doom and performing 
 as good as a Sumo wrestler in a shoe-lace Bungee jump. Bard's Tale, by the way, looks pretty good 
 to me, the graphics I mean, BUT, it's fast, the battles are interactive, and my little box in the 
 head tells me that logically it's supposed to be slower than a game that settles a battle by calculating 
 a random number.
  Neverwinter Nights 2's graphics are O. k. , no more than this. All the hype that everyone caused 
 about the wonderful graphics and all this blah blah blah in the Video menus doesn't make a difference, 
 the game is so so so slow. So slow, that to quicken the game by 3 frames per second, I need to 
 lower the settings to a point that if Heidi Klum was a character, she would look like Osama Bin 
 Laden, with a diaper, a bad case of chicken pox and some 3rd degree burns, but without any details 
 of this what so ever, just a big ugly texture smeared on a shape of a Dragonshard soldier.
  I've tried everything. I've consulted the manual, Gamespot's Performance Guide and whatever. Nothing 
 can make this game playable on my computer, that, did I mention? runs X3 : Reunion on full settings 
 minus antialiasing - PERFECTLY! And you know what? even if X3 was to run on my computer like a 
 turtle on a broken wheelchair up a steep mountain, it has the excuse of giving me detail and realism 
 in return. NWN 2, Doesn't.
  
  Now that I'm over the graphic issues, let's talk about the interface.
  NWN used a fairly simple 
 and known right-click-menu-thingy-thing, taken and used by many past games, BioWare's or not. Well, 
 the guys that wanted to be innovative so badly at Obsidian obviously didn't realise that the traditional 
 right-click-action-menu stayed there for a REASON, and they replaced it with an extremely clumsy 
 select &amp; click action or whatever it is.
  I don't even know who Obsidian is, they could be the same guys who made the first NWN, but I can't 
 imagine what the hell where they thinking when trying to make me try to maneuver my mouse at 10 
 FPS during an unbalanced battle to click on one icon and then try to target my enemy\character. 
 No logic behind any of this.
  
  I don't know why, but it seems to me that NWN2 tries to be more like a Diablo type hack &amp; slash 
 game... Maybe it's the way the dialog windows resemble every hack&amp; slash game I have played 
 during the last 5 years, maybe it's the way they made the combat faster, which makes any one-on-one 
 combat look the same as a six on one battle (one of the things I loved about NWN is watching how 
 my evasive rogue dodges on time and strikes back at realistic speed so I can watch every thrust 
 of his rapier pierce some Orc's belly and kills it) .
  
  I couldn't even go on with the story (I never understood why everyone knelt before stories like 
 NWN's, it's just predictable...) as it was so generic that at some point I just gave up re-touring 
 the recycled story. Even if they tried to surprise me with an Elf sorceress in bed with 5 orcs 
 in the middle of the oh my god who are these goblins and why did they attack us? surely it has 
 nothing to do with me being the grandson of the keeper of the holy Condom and the fact that I have 
 a huge glowing stone in my pocket that is said to give godly powers to all who can find the key 
 to the gate of hell which is actually broken to five pieces scattered across the world... scene, 
 I will be too damn irritated about the fact that with every possible visual setting, I'm the only 
 one in the world getting vast BLACK SKIES instead of the beautiful graphics promised to me on the 
 back of the box.
  
  Well as you can understand, the rage that this game built inside of me, made me uninstall it, saving 
 some space for the next good RPG.
  
  I can't understand how anyone who played the first NWN could say that this... MONSTROSITY is a 
 worthy sequel. I think I'll try to get a refund... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Matt_Pitt
Rating: 9.9
Date: May 17, 2007 2:30 am PT
Review:  The original Neverwinter Nights had me playing it over and over, and I can imagine this doing the 
 same, from the small amount I've played, I love my feral Druid and it is briliant fun! It brings 
 the fun of the original into the improved graphics and new story. It is a perfect mix of new and 
 old, I recommend it to any RPG players or anyone for that matter, it it enjoyable and not overly 
 hard, I have to admit that a bit more work could have been done on the party, as they sometimes 
 lag behind a long way and occasionally miss entire fights, making it quite hard. Other than this 
 minor problem I think this is a fantastic game that is a must for and D&amp; D and RPG fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flusherli
Rating: 9
Date: May 16, 2007 5:08 pm PT
Review:  I finished the singleplayer twice and how more patches where released weird but true how more bugged 
 the game became from 1.03 and forth you cant acces any shop anymore non random crashes. Apart from 
 that the game rocks its almost sick how many things you can alter at the character creation its 
 really great. After that the real fun begins you can choose to do the tutorial which explains how 
 everything works you can even win some items you dont get if you skip the tutorial there not that 
 good but still if you play it for the first time. you can do alot with talking instead of fighting 
 trough a room if you do it tactical they might help you or stand aside or bring you to their leader.
 
  
  i think the whole story is just great you meet alot of people get to do alot of quests just hope 
 your not gonna get stuck at one particular quest in neverwinternight past that everything is cool 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jabon60
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 13, 2007 8:14 am PT
Review:  I have seen a lot of reviews slating this game but they are wrong!!! NWN2 is a brilliant game and 
 appeals to everything I would look for in a D&amp; D style RPG. I have been playing this for quite 
 a while now and have found the story to be exciting and the quests to have that extra oomph that 
 keeps you tied to the keyboard at all times. Raising you basic party is no easy task and you will 
 be constantly shifting around characters and items to get the most out of the areas you travel 
 to and the difficulties they pose! Graphics are looking very good and for once I am not sickened 
 by the repeating of dodgy character voices as found in the Baldur's Gate series and Icewind Dale! 
 The atmosphere is exciting and deep.
  
  I must admit that I was not a great fa of the first game at all and was sceptical to buying the 
 second in the series, but I am really glad I did. The feel is different to the first and everything 
 about it seems improved to me. Admittedly I am a pure sucker for games of this genre but I would 
 pick this game out alongside Oblivion and others alike. I still have much of the game to go but 
 I am looking forward to it without doubt and trust that the story will continue to twist and turn 
 as it has done so far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrMike99
Rating: 6.8
Date: May 13, 2007 6:00 am PT
Review:  NWN2 is worth playing if you are a fan of the dungeons and dragons series as it is based on those 
 rules, but if you are not, you may find this game getting tiresome fairly quickly. The storyline 
 is interesting enough and you meet many new companions while completing it, but the environments, 
 especially in settlements, are not really up to standard. You never really feel immersed in the 
 game world, as there is no way to travel through the world, except by teleporting from one area 
 to another which makes everything seem very distant and you cannot get a proper feel for the world. 
 It needs an open world system to make it more believable.
  
  There are some good cinematic scenes which help you to understand the plot more and the companions 
 you travel with all have their own distinct personality. When talking to NPCs you are often given 
 a choice of responses and these can change how your companions feel towards you. You are also given 
 a status of lawful/unlawful and good/evil based on these responses.
  
  The spell effects are fairly good , with a good range of spells, but the main combat system is 
 very repetitive in just clicking on the enemy to attack, this often makes combat, which is the 
 main part of the game, very tiresome and it is too difficult to control all of your companions 
 on combat.
  
  For a game which such steep hardware requirements, the graphics are not really that good. There 
 are some decent shadow effects but overall they are nowhere near what they should be for the requirements.
 
  
  The camera is also a key problem as none of the presets provide quite the right view and you will 
 often find yourself adjusting the camera constantly as there is no 1st person view. The controls 
 are also annoying because the wasd keys do not allow very precise movement and just tapping the 
 d key for example turns you a full 45 degrees which is far too much and you often have to resort 
 to clicking on the ground to move which is not really up to the standards of a game of today.
 
  
  In conclusion NWN2 is a decent game especially for fans of dungeons and dragons but it is often 
 too repetitive and doesnt keep your attention for very long. This game will probably appeal most 
 to fans of RPGs because it has all the traditions of most RPGs, but hardly any new exciting features 
 have been implemented which makes it a fairly forgettable game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alucard7321
Rating: 7.7
Date: May 4, 2007 7:01 pm PT
Review:  The review tag says it all.
  
  Basically i could spend my whole day here giving an in-depth review however basically if you take 
 Neverwinter Nights, you basically have Neverwinter Nights 2 with some MINOR differances, heres 
 why:
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Gameplay is exactly the same. Yea sure theres new character classes and modified combat etc, however 
 it still the same basically. Dont get me wrong though, its a winning formula in my eyes for the 
 D&amp; D series (though i personally also liked the rules used in Baldur's Gate II etc) .
  
  If you've played Neverwinter Nights you should be no stranger to the gameplay ethics in this game. 
 So not much has changed, which is ok overall.
  
  Graphics:
  
  Now this is probably the only major enhancement made to this game. They have prettier cutscenes 
 and texture modelling. Spell FX are KIND-OF simular still however its all mainly about character 
 designs and animations.
  
  Its nice though for some reason it SHOULDN'T tax your computer's memory as much as it does. I have 
 an extremely fast computer so didn't run into many major problems however i have seen this game 
 ran on lower spec systems and it seems to want to eat all the computer's CPU time basically in 
 some cases.
  
  Sound:
  
  Heres another factor that its basically an updated Neverwinter Nights. Jeremy Seoule didn't add 
 any new music. He only added ONE track, yes... ONE... which is played when you enter dark cave like 
 dungeons.... its basically a violinist playing some crazy atonal melody near the bride of the violin.... absolutely 
 pathetic.
  
  His other scores were actually pretty good, but they are ALL from Neverwinter Nights the original 
 game. Sadly nothing much has been added here, voice acting is average, nothing spectacular.... same 
 spell, combat and everything fx here from the original game.
  
  Conclusion:
  
  Basically its a more prettier version of Neverwinter Nights. I was expecting whole new differences 
 to be honest and i didn't find them here.
  
  For example i wanted a whole new OST soundtrack of which will blow me away like the first game's. 
 However what i found was one new track with a violinist going mad playing an atonal melody.... niiiiice (!)
 
  
  Generally its Neverwinter Nights with slightly fancier improvements or enchancements. They keep 
 to formula to play it safe but in so doing this the level designs aren't THAT titilating and everything 
 just ends up feeling Recycled.
  
  Recycled being the keyword here, from its music, to its gameplay and level designs. Its a real 
 shame they didn't try something ambitious in this game, though if your still a fan of the original 
 who hates change, its a winner for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Geitsau
Rating: 5.7
Date: May 3, 2007 1:30 am PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  I've had limited experience with D&amp; D-style RPG's before, so I didn't quite know to expect when 
 the game was starting. The first thing that I noticed was the character creation. I've never seen 
 a deeper character creation. You have to choose race, subrace, class, voice, background, alignement, 
 deity and a class path. So I launched the main campaign, and started playing the tutorial, which 
 does it job in teaching me the basics of the game. But as I progressed the combat became more and 
 more boring. It's do damn slow-paced that several times there were complete pauses in combat for 
 like 5 or more seconds. Also I didn't understand what many of the values in the items and skills 
 meant, and I found nothing that could explain it to me. It seems like the people behind this game 
 is spitting in the face of beginners. Anyway, the conversation system is really deep and engaging, 
 with plenty of choices. And you don't develop your crafting skills as you craft more and more stuff, 
 no, you have to spend skill points on them when you level up, which you sorely need for other skills 
 that help out in combat. The interface of the game kinda reminds me of World of Warcraft, with 
 an action bar and all, but the combat system is nothing like it.
  
  Graphics:
  For a 2006 game the graphics are pretty weak, but there are some cool spell effects that helps 
 improve the grade. Though the graphics are pretty bad, it's nothing that will ruin your game, unless 
 you're a graphics whore.
  
  Sound:
  The voice acting is diverse and sounds genuine most of the time. The music keeps repeating itself 
 it seems, and the fact that it's not very good either doesn't help. Mediocre sound effects.
  
  Value:
  I was bored with this game before I reached chapter 2, due to the fact that the combat 
 is one long bore, and fighting is what you're gonna do most of the game. There's an online multiplayer 
 part, which I didn't find more amusing than the single-player part, but it does add to the value. 
 Unfortunately, I found the community to be very hostile to newbies.
  
  Tilt:
  This feels like some kind of old MMORPG, just that it's not... It's a 2006 single-player RPG (with 
 some multiplayer possibilities) . Compare this to other RPG's that came in 2006. Oblivion anyone?
 
  
  I'd like to conclude with saying that this is not a BAD game, I just didn't like it. And if you're 
 a D&amp; D-newb like me, you're probably not going to like it either. The grade I give the game 
 is solely based on my personal opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lobotomist
Rating: 1
Date: May 1, 2007 7:42 am PT
Review:  I belive NWN1 was one of the most revolutionary games ever to hit PC or any system. And probably 
 the only game ever that stayed on my HD for 4 years and was played over and over. Thousands of 
 user made adventures , MMORPG like multiplayer. Live DM campaigns. Quick made adventures. NWN1 
 was heaven for any RPG and especially D&amp; D fan
  
  -
  
  I waited in line to purchase NWN2 at midnight. Now i am sorry i ever bought it.
  
  NWN2 was 
 released less than half finished , and even if it was finished it would still be a horrible game 
 due to total amaterism of Obsidian crew.
  
  Flaws of this game are to many to mention. But let say that instead of improving on NWN1 it ruined 
 everything that was good about it.
  
  In best case it might now serve as mediocre singleplayer rpg.
  Any thing like PW, multiplayer 
 or DM sessions are fools errand.
  And even player made modules are almost non existant , at least not as in NWN1
  
  But my biggest 
 regret is that Obsidian NWN2 probably means end to NWN franchise 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowWolf456
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 1, 2007 5:37 am PT
Review:  Ive been playing this game awhile and I have had difficulties but only one I couldn't get though, 
 the keyboard crash. The set backs are that I can play the campaign normally but i have to do everything 
 manually with the mouse, i cant save through the menu i have to wait for the auto save (yes!) , i 
 cant play multi-player, i cant make a name, and i can only have one save game. But hey, i can still 
 play the campaign! The good things are that there is a good storyline, great graphics, not too 
 easy but not to hard, good choice of race/class, long storyline, and its just plain fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Consequence
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 28, 2007 10:47 am PT
Review:  First of all, the character creation is amazing! There are 8 basic races, Humans, Elves, Dwarves, 
 Half-Elves, Half-Orcs, Halflings, Gnomes, and Planetouched, as well as a few sub-races such as 
 (Drow, Duergar, Svirnefblin) . Each of the races has special racial abilities, resistances and racial 
 spells and whatnot. Next you choose your class, almost all of the classes from the original game 
 are here, only a couple are missing (i. e. shapeshifter) but there are some new classes as well, 
 the warlock (a sorceror with no caster limit) , Shadow Thief of Amn, Neverwinter Nine etc. After 
 class you can choose your skills, feats, and spells if need be. ***MINOR SPOILER WARNING***
  
  The story starts off in the swamp village of West Harbor, with an optional prelude (which should 
 be done with every new game as it gives quite a bit of xp) which has you competeing in the Harvest 
 Festival for the Harvest Cup, afterwards you wake up to the village under attack and you must go 
 defend your home, in the wake of the attack, your foster father then sends you to get a silver 
 shard. He then deems it necessary to send you to Neverwinter.
  
  ***END SPOILER***
  
  At a certain point you are granted Crossroad Keep, which you must reconstruct, then manage, and 
 by populating it with people you've met on your travels, you can draw peasants, merchants, and 
 recruit Greycloaks to the Keep.
  
  The technical aspects have high quality also, the graphics are very impressive, and the sound and 
 voice acting is well done, excepting Grobnar Gnomehands, whose voice kills little puppies and tiny 
 babies when they hear it. I can't legitimately complain about the game freezing up, since my video 
 card is less-than capable (NWN2 runs but only after taking off all shadows, light sources and special 
 effects) .
  
  In the end I would recommend his to all RPG fans and even some non-RPG fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gowda_13
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 27, 2007 2:53 pm PT
Review:  NWN2 was a game I was really looking foreword to playing. This game has some pretty good graphics 
 along with amazing spell effects. The amount of customization is spells, class, race, ect. is great 
 and makes for a newish experience each time you play with a new character. The creators talked 
 about non-linear game play along with an extensive main quest line. That's where the game really 
 sort of let me down. There really isn't anything to do except the main quest line. Sure you can 
 look around the immediate area (whatever city your in) , but your really confined to only certain 
 parts of this world; and yes there are a couple side quest, but these also tie in with the main 
 quests by helping you out latter on. Despite the linear game play, this game was still great and 
 a lot of fun to play through a couple of times. If your interested in RPGs, or RTS style RPGs like 
 Baldurs Gat, then you'll love this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Somini
Rating: 6.9
Date: Apr 24, 2007 4:49 pm PT
Review:  I was so much looking forward to this game, the original Neverwinter Nights is one of my all-time 
 favourites. After only playing NWN2 for 5-10 min. I realized that it wouldn't compare to it's predecessor. 
 The reason is not that NWN2 is actually a bad game, it's the fact that it's almost too buggy for 
 me to stand. The system requirements are ridiculous, the game doesn't even look THAT good, but 
 still, with my PC that has a 7900 GTX GPU, 2GB of RAM and AMD Athlon 64X2 dual-core CPU, it still 
 has some major technical issues. The FPS rates that I got sometimes were painstakingly low, if 
 I compare that to the FPS rates that I get from a game like Half-Life 2, then it's just ridiculous.
 
  
  Another thing that annoyed (but always is a problem with some, just SOME PC games) was that it 
 kept on crashing on me all the time. I hate crashes. Also, your party members act as complete morons, 
 as well as some enemies, I don't know WTF Obsidian was thinking when they programmed the AI for 
 NWN2. I could go on, mentioning even more bugs, but I don't see the point in doing that. The only 
 thing that everyone needs to know is that Neverwinter Nights is a broken piece of software.
  
  So, isn't there anything good to say about this game? Well, there is, c'mon, it's still NWN. 
 The single player campaign is good, a lot of good characters, as anyone would want from a decent 
 RPG. If people just have patience and play through the entire game they will get a very nice RPG 
 experience. The great thing about NWN was that sooo many people made their own moduls and this 
 is the same with NWN2. There are new mod's coming all the the time, with varying quality, but its 
 just as it was with NWN, there will be stuff to play for a very long time. If NWN2 wasn't as buggy 
 as it is, I would say that it would be a 9.0 game, but it's impossible for me to give it a high 
 score. EDIT: Another thing that I hated in NWN2 was the music, not because the music was bad, but 
 they re-used too much of Jeremy Soule's fantastic music from NWN, c'mon Obsidian, you could've 
 just given Jeremy Soule some extra $$$ to make an all new soundtrack. I really loved the soundtrack 
 in the first game, but I wanted new stuff, because I love the work of Jeremy Soule. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aog21
Rating: 1.7
Date: Apr 22, 2007 9:23 am PT
Review:  It just that - it just simply so amazingly boooring.....
  
  I've got no technical issues (patch 1.04, guide on tweakguides. com) , but there is nothing that 
 I haven't seen before. Nothing... :|
  Plot is very.... I don't know how to put it, errr... well... it is kind of stupid. Like in books 
 of Andre Norton, but without any relationship between characters, like they would be robots. It's 
 game which maybe satisfy very small children, but there is too much pointless violence. Maybe it 
 would be good gift for someone who never saw cRPG or saw something like Diablo, but even Diablo 
 is more interesting than that. Oh, one thing is funny in this game - voice - manic, psychotic . 
 :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nick_Cave
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 20, 2007 5:22 am PT
Review:  I finished it 2 days ago . I played the game with all the patches so I really can't say I met the 
 bugfest everyone is talking about.
  
  Although the game has poor graphics and ridiculous requirements , I found it to be almost better 
 than BG 2 .
  
  I can't remember a RPG with a better story and storytelling than this . The trial sequence for 
 example is extraordinary .
  
  The characters are almost human . I actually believed that Khelgar will fight by my side even in 
 the afterlife !
  
  The gameplay is what I expected from a D&amp; D game , and I found the 3,5 rules pretty good . I 
 think in its core , NWN 2 is a mix of BG and Icewind Dale . It has the action and liniarity of 
 Icewind and the depth of story and characters of BG series . This is an excellent thing for me 
 I must say .
  
  Having said all that , I really think this game deserves to be played by anyone and it has to by 
 judjued with the patches installed , it has a LOT to offer . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: merchitO
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 24, 2007 4:42 pm PT
Review:  I consider Baldur's gate I &amp; II, fallout I &amp; II, Arcanum and Planescape, my favourite isometric 
 RPGs. At this list you must add KOTOR, which I didn't like at first, but is now among the games 
 I love the most. The first Neverwinter never hooked me, though I tried and tried again to like 
 it during the (too) long hours I invested in playing it, with every official extensions and modules.
 
  
  I have been patient enough to wait for the last Neverwinter II patch to be released, and I probably 
 did well, because I can play it with no bug (so far) , beside unimportant clippings. And smoothly, 
 thanks for my new computer.
  
  Neverwinter II has been a good surprise. It mixes some qualities from Baldur's, the first Neverwinter 
 and also from KOTOR. I also find the graphics very, very nice (at least when they are finished) . 
 I don't understand why some people complain on this matter. It probably doesn't look so good on 
 older computers...
  
  The story and how it unfolds is a strong point of this game. And the characters have depth and 
 personalities, despite certain of them being quite irritating (though it's a matter of point of 
 view) .
  
  A serious problem, which has been discussed a lot, is the blocking of the view. In dungeons, you 
 very often find half of your screen (or even more) completely black. Behind this large black patch 
 (that is in fact the back side of a wall) hides your team. If you lower the camera, all of a sudden 
 it automatically zooms to pass in front of the wall, making an extreme close up on your main character. 
 Very, very, very awkward. The solution to this problem seems so easy (to a neophyte in programming) : 
 make a rule that renders completely transparent anything between your eye and any PC or NPC. Is 
 it so hard to do? * Everything coming between you and your character should become transparent 
 .* Period.
  - (And I mean, completely transparent! Not like the canopy of trees which, in outdoor landscape, 
 becomes only semi-transparent when your camera is above it. Irritating. And not like the ceiling 
 of houses which disappear all-right to open the view, but let large carpentry obtruding the sight.) - 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nixa22
Rating: 3.4
Date: Apr 15, 2007 10:53 am PT
Review:  Don't buy it. It's just a waste of money. This together with the lack of Obsidian and Bioware support 
 and the lack of friendliness towards customers makes it even worse. If you've ventured on their 
 forums you'd know what I am talking about. I mean, if you had the misfortune to go there.. :/
 
  It's nowhere near being good and immersive like Baldur's Gate.. so I'm sorry to shatter your hopes.
 
  I'm boycotting Bioware and Obsidian products from now on. I won't give them even a cent. I want 
 them to rot and stop making bad games. I am very very disappointed with them.
  And keep in mind that they have a completely moronic community coordinator - Chris Priestly, I 
 think this guy can't even coordinate his shoes to match with each other. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TooCool
Rating: 5.4
Date: Apr 12, 2007 10:53 am PT
Review:  I'm probably in the minority, but I thought NWN2 was a great disappointment. I enjoyed the story 
 line. I like the fact that they provide a toolset. And there are other positives as well. I can't 
 tell you just how much I wanted to like this game.
  
  But the product was beyond unpolished. The frustration involved in the crappy controls/collision 
 detection ruined what could have been a fantastic game. Every 2 minutes, I was having to manual 
 get my group back together because the AI was getting the characters stuck on rocks, fence posts, 
 coffins and basically ANY item that existed. For me, it completely detracted from any fun I was 
 having. Needless to say, after hours and hours of game time, the agrivation finally won out and 
 I haven't played this game since.
  
  These sort of technical issues may have been excusable back when NWN1 came out, but there's no 
 excuse for that sort of shoddy coding with today's generation of games. Especially when you consider 
 they were aware of these problems from NWN1 and apparently did nothing to fix them for part 2.
 
  
  If there's a NWN3, I'll be holding on to my money until I can verify the game is up to current 
 standards. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bcrankshaw
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 11, 2007 8:41 am PT
Review:  Right Ive finished the game and enjoyed it immensely .Im a big RPG enthusiast in the traditional 
 sense .I enjoy non-linear RPGs where you interact with NPCs and go on quests where you can really 
 be good or evil .NW N2 is exactly like that . It doesnt have the vastness of Elder Scrolls or 
 Gothic 3 in the sense where you can explore anywhere in the world and do anything but the other 
 dynamics of the game make it one of the best RPGs Ive ever played. The interaction with NPCs 
 and your party members, the engaging combat system and the various quests will leave an indelible 
 impression on most. Obsidian, the new development company for the game, has done on excellent job 
 in maintaining the high standards of the NeverWinter Nights series that Bioware started. As someone 
 who uses to play the original D&amp; D this type of PC game is really the closest thing to the whole 
 experience. For example its great fun selecting the relevant spells from a comprehensive list 
 before serious combat and knowing how to develop a Bard character class when youve been exposed 
 to the normal rules .Also the developers really put effort into the personalities of people you 
 meet, at times I found myself laughing out loud at the responses and views of NPCs. Finally the 
 stability of the game was more than tolerable and general bugs were minimal. I did load the latest 
 patch released in January and only had about 6-9 crashed in 100 hours... and those were only during 
 intense combat scenes .I emphatically recommend this game to people who want a more challenging 
 RPG from a rules perspective and people who just are looking for a good ,fantasy experience . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aragon2098
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 8, 2007 9:15 am PT
Review:  The story drags you into the Nwn2 world makes you feel like you are really breathing the atmosphere 
 there and serving on a great purpose. You feel sad with the loss of a companion in the team or 
 feel good with a good advancement. Lack of romance is a drawback to me since the only values you 
 are fighting for are ungrateful Nvw folk (most of them) and land. Considering most of the players 
 are male, a love tie with Shandra would boost the passion of the player in the game. Well that is 
 what I think though.
  When it comes to graphics and PC performance, I had no trouble with any of them. I use vista premium 
 and even with the highest resolution and graphic effects it never let me down during my around 
 100 hours game play even if I used Alt+Tab to minimize the game whenever I needed to do something 
 on my computer. Well maybe it is because of my brand new Nvidia graphic card along with core duo 
 processor and vast memory capacity but no one can blame a game producer for not producing the game 
 for PCs having low functions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snake40000
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 6, 2007 11:41 pm PT
Review:  this game was not as good as the original but they got more parts right then wrong. the graphics 
 were good and the game play was fair, though the fighting was a bit slow. the acual tactics of 
 the game were realistic to d&amp; d rules so it worked out nicely. though it can be glichy at times 
 and the loading time can be slow the character building is supurb. as a final note this game could 
 have been better but hey thats what patches are for.
  
  and for all the nut busters out there at least write a honest review and read the minimum requirments 
 before buying the game so you can acualy play and give gamers a bad name. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cp-muzzy
Rating: 7.9
Date: Apr 6, 2007 1:45 pm PT
Review:  I love the NWN games, and also the Baldur's Gate series, so I was very excited to see the former 
 franchise meet the latter braintrust.
  
  The result is somewhat diappointing, perhaps in part because my expectations were so high. The 
 camera, the stop-you-in-your-tracks bugs prior to the first patch, some scripting errors all were 
 quite annoying. I actually stopped playing the game for a while until the patch.
  
  Ultimately, the great story carries the game through, and some really terrific battles that allow 
 the player to make use of a varied group of NPC's. Combat with the entire party involved takes 
 on an additional element of strategy, as you advance, withdraw, shift your characters to cover 
 for each other and protect wounded comrades. It will be interesting to see new mods created by 
 the community. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: waynebow
Rating: 6.7
Date: Apr 3, 2007 3:47 pm PT
Review:  I have to admit I'm a little disappointed in NWN 2. Here's why:
  
  1. My computer is reasonably modern and powerful (has no problem with Oblivion and its fancy graphics) , 
 yet NWN 2 doesn't run well unless put onto low settings; the graphics in NWN 2 don't seem to quantify 
 this - they are not brilliant 2. Some of the voice acting is particularly annoying - especially 
 the demon-girl, whose voice sounds like a whining teenager; in fact the whole game seems like it 
 was targeted at the teen market, leaving those of us more mature types feeling like we're playing 
 in a sandpit (some of us mature types have played RPG's and DandD for decades; I was hoping for 
 something more mature)
  
  3. As was the case in the original NWN, my character ends up with a heap of stuff in her inventory 
 and there's no way of knowing if the stuff is important or not (until you sell something only to 
 find out later you could have used it) ; there is no way to organise the inventory either
  
  4. Some of the cut scenes and pre-acted stuff in the story-lines seems to take forever to get through 
 and there is no way of speeding it up (e. g. in Oblivion you can click on the NPC's speech to get 
 through it; you can't in NWN2)
  
  5. The game just doesn't look or feel 'real' to me and I like games to look/feel real. The graphics 
 (with the exception of spell effects) are 'computerish' (but perhaps I've been spoilt by Oblivion) . 
 The characters move in robotic ways and the combat is almost comical (I do realise this is the 
 result of the turn-based combat system, but I wonder if that could have been done better) . The 
 AI has its interesting moments (e. g. characters running the long way round to get to an enemy because 
 someone or something is in the way) . You can avoid some of those problems by controlling all of 
 the characters at your disposal, but that takes a lot of time and effort. Characters have AI options 
 in their settings, but these don't seem to have any marked effect on what the character does. I 
 am a fan of DandD, I like the 3rd Edition rules and the various character types (classes and races) . 
 I generally enjoy games where the outcome is more reliant on your character than on your skill, 
 but when the AI and gameplay have issues, I'm tempted to jump in and take full control of a character 
 like in Oblivion - but you can't in NWN2. I had high hopes for NWN2 because I really enjoyed Baldurs 
 Gate and NWN1, but this game didn't quite meet my expectations. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: me2u2
Rating: 2.2
Date: Mar 29, 2007 10:08 pm PT
Review:  I can't play the game because the performance is SO bad on my PC.
  
  core 2 duo 6300
  2 gb ddr2
  geforce 8800gts
  
  The graphics are quite grainy and appear to be more like a 
 developers root kit than a polished RTS game. It looked like that on my XP PC too, so I'm not going 
 to blame Vista for that. Even on my best settings the graphics were chalky and pixeled.
  
  On my Vista PC, forget it. I'm using my $50 dvd as a wall ornament at this point. Whenever I need 
 a good laugh, I will remember my PC's performance after attempting to play this game. The only 
 reason I'm not going to tilt the score to 1 is because I am still laughing at the horrid performance.
 
  
  I'm difficult to 'shock' but this game definitely delivered.
  
  Obsidian killed another Bioware classic.
  
  Bravo! &gt; cricket chirps 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Demagorgon
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 27, 2007 1:22 am PT
Review:  I personally found the Neverwinter Nights to be dissapointing. I spent countless hours playing 
 Baldur's Gate II, possibly one of the greatest games ever made, and the game Bioware released before 
 Neverwinter Nights. I saw on the loading screen for Baldur's Gate II You can continue your character 
 in Neverwinter Nights! Hurrah I thought!, but oh boy was I dissapointed. Neverwinter Nights may 
 have been designed to be flexible, which was to allow people to make their own Dungeons and Dragons 
 adventures, but it can at the sacrifice of everything I loved about Baldur's Gate II: lovable NPCs, 
 a deep and variable combat system, countless and varied quests, and replaced them with an incredibly 
 linear Diablo style RPG, that was also one of the uglier 3D games. Who cares if you have countless 
 user modules, if the core gameplay sucks?
  
  Now 6 years after Baldur's Gate II's release there is finally an RPG worthy of being mentioned 
 alongside Baldur's Gate II. That game is, as you could quite easily guess, Neverwinter Nights 2. 
 It fixes many of the problems of the original Neverwinter Nights, while adding some of the best 
 (as well as the worst) parts of Knights of the Old Republic and Baldur's Gate II. The game now 
 is party based, as opposed to having a single character with a henchmen like in Neverwinter Nights, 
 which is the biggest change from the original game. You will have to use the various abilities 
 of the characters you find along your travels, as opposed to having a single, super powerful character. 
 The game now feels more like Baldur's Gate than Diablo, which is exactly what I expected from the 
 original Neverwinter Nights. The NPCs that come along with you have a lot more personality than 
 they did in Neverwinter Nights, their personalities slowly shift over the course of the game, and 
 the developers clear put effort in to making the NPCs as lifelike and dynamic as possible, as opposed 
 to the dull almost lifeless NPCs of the original game.
  
  The terrific party based system and great NPCs also have a catch though. Like Knights of the Old 
 Republic, every NPC you collect waits for you, except instead of a spaceship, they wait in a tavern. 
 This is a good thing. However, each character has their own inventory. With all the loot in the 
 game, its difficult to keep track of who has what loot, particulary as you near the end game. The 
 inventory is also based on the Baldur's Gate II system. That is each item takes up equal space 
 in your inventory, 50 scrolls take up the same amount of space as 50 Greatswords. The system was 
 fine 6 years ago, but it feels archaic now.
  
  The main campaign is a vast improvement on the Neverwinter Nights 1 campaign. It is about twice 
 as long, and the story is vastly superior. The story begins in a small village, as you leave your 
 foster father's house to go to a village competition with your two friends. Once you finish the 
 village competition, you wake to your village under attack. The story quickly escalates from their 
 and takes many suprising turns. The main campaign will take around 50 hours to complete. Unfortunately, 
 there isn't many sidequests, which is my biggest complaint about this game. Although it does generously 
 give you many small dungeons instead of a handful of massive dungeons, which paces the game much 
 better.
  
  The main campaign is not the end of the game, as there is a vibrant internet community. There are 
 plenty of modules to download, although they are not likely to be any where near as good as the 
 excellent main campaign. Technically speaking, this game is fine. At version 1.0, I found this 
 to be quite stable, with only a few graphical glitches. The NPC AI leaves a lot to be desired, 
 but you can manually fix that through the games flexible party control system. It isn't visually 
 amazing, but it gets the job done. It does sound great however, with fantastic voice acting, and 
 a great score.
  
  Altogether Nevewinter Nights 2 is quite simply one of the best RPGs of recent years, while it may 
 retain some peculiar issues of some older games, it is a must play for fans on the infinity engine 
 games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thibbledorfP
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 24, 2007 4:25 am PT
Review:  Graphics
  
  The graphics are very good, slick and detailed. Definitely up to date, they animate well. Cutscenes 
 look good, as do character models and backdrops. Spells and everything else are all very good. 
 The graphics are not the best available at the present time, and have many similarities with NWN 
 1 graphics... but this is an RPG with a great deal of content to load in each area, and many nice 
 touches are included that were not in NWN 1 (Walkable ramps and cliffs, no more oddly-shaped square 
 parts of creature models) . Sound
  
  The sound is great, with a varied repertoire. During battles, the music will make your heart thump, 
 and exploration music and the like, are done very well. Not as outstanding as say, Icewind Dale 
 1 music, but great nonetheless.
  
  Gameplay / Interface
  
  The characters are easy to control and command. You can completely take control of your companions, 
 (looking in inventory, moving, actions etc) like your own character. You can also assign basic 
 commands like in NWN 1, and configure some AI. There are some eccentricities with some of the AI, 
 but overall, it is good. There is a wide net you can use to cover AI: complete command, basic commands, 
 and configured commands. The extra options in terms of feats, subraces and prestige classes make 
 this game have an extra kick in terms of playability. There are some serious problems with the 
 camera angles, namely the fact that sometimes the camera will be at a very odd angle (looking at 
 your pcs feet) when entering a dungeon for instance. Trying to fix the camera only takes a few 
 seconds, but it is tedious nonetheless. Furthermore, trying to fix the angle sometimes sends the 
 screen reeling crazily, and can result in you clicking on the wrong area. The game will last a 
 good 60 hours, and is fun all the way through. There are a lot of opportunities to roleplay different 
 alignments, and there are corresponding alignment changes (in increments) . Interactive alignment 
 is something that is VERY hard to do in games, even BG1/2 did not do it perfectly. NWN 2 does it 
 well, but not perfectly.
  
  Most of the alignment changes merely result from a different pc dialogue option, and does not chance 
 the actual quest. If they could add more interesting different quest options dependant on alignment, 
 this would have been great. However, it is very interactive the way it is now, but not perfect. 
 The story is good but not exceptional. There are a few points at the game that feel a bit dry. 
 A few more side-quest encounters would have been nice. But there are many superb moments (plot 
 twists, mission set-ups, the great intro movie) to more than make up for this. Kudos to Obsidian 
 for creating some BG2-style atmosphere and gaming.
  
  The multiplayer works well in the game, and the toolset has great potential. This will increase 
 replayability. I have not tried persistent worlds, but have heard of some inconveniences. There 
 seem to still be quite a few high-rated persistent worlds on the vault, so it can't be that bad. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kiigora_LoP
Rating: 7.2
Date: Apr 8, 2007 3:12 pm PT
Review:  Graphics- The graphics were disappointing from what I had expected, but, they're moderate. When 
 you take into consideration that NWN2 may also be played online, the better the graphical capability, 
 the more space it consumes, thus the harder it is to run a PW (Persistent World) .
  
  Sound- The lack of very few new tracks for the game was somewhat saddening, but, sounds were very 
 fitting, I never found an area that the track didn't fit. Interface &amp; Gameplay-9/10- Simply 
 the best part of the game, the ability to control henchmen brings the classic aspect of Baldur's 
 Gate, other titles by Black Isle, and other such classics PoR etcetera. The combination of that 
 with the new interface was wonderful, it made winning a battle much less tedious then the first 
 NWN. The radial menu first, was sorely missed, having to shift-click and hold can get very annoying 
 at times, but, the ability to activate parry/defensive casting/power attack etc.. with one click 
 was a nice addition. The interface would be deserving of a ten if they had made speaking to party 
 members a simply right-click radial menu. The addition of the quickspell menu was extremely helpful 
 and a true time-saver.
  Gameplay- Smooth so long as you have the right specs. on your computer. Nothing new from the first 
 however. Storyline- Moderate, nothing that really immerses you into the game, no true reply value 
 to it.
  
  Character Development- Time consumption to truly develop your party members can be annoying but, 
 allows for more play time and early level ups. Toolset- It can be a tough process to gain an understanding 
 of how to really create a wonderful module, but, once you get the hang of it you can mold the game 
 to your liking and create vast adventures on your own terms. The toolset is truly what NWN is all 
 about and why it is deserving of a higher rating then I'm seeing it get. If you don't like the 
 main storyline or the rather slow character development but don't know how or don't want to take 
 the time to creature your own epic adventure, visit http://nwvault. ign. com/ for modules made by 
 the community or the PW. PW offer an ever-changing aspect to the NWN world, you get the interaction 
 of real people along with the action of a good module. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: big_al123
Rating: 5.1
Date: Mar 16, 2007 5:58 pm PT
Review:  While I really enjoyed the original NWN this one is completely lacking.
  It looks alright but uses huge amounts of system resources. The Environments and Characters are 
 all lacking in wow factor. It all looks a bit boring.
  
  Character Development is also lacking. There is an influence system that depending on your response 
 to dilemmas and questions given to you raises all lowers your standing with certain characters 
 in your party because of this their stories seem to detached to the main thread and you always 
 feeling your missing points. Being good or evil can make quiet a difference for the 1st act, as 
 there are toy opposing story lines... you can join the guards or the criminal underworld but after 
 this you alignment makes little difference. The Story on the whole is pretty average, better than 
 a lot of games but still completely predictable with uninspired twists. Those who are fan of romance 
 options ala Baldurs Gate, will be glad theyve made a comeback, but will be disappointed that 
 there only one available, despite other being hinted at, for female and one for males. There a 
 now same sex threads, and both a complete goody goodies (a Elf Druids and a Human Paladin) The 
 best part of the game is where you get to build your own fortress, unfortunately there arent enough 
 unique options to replay. Basically the only differences you can choose are between a Church or 
 a Monastery and a Gambling Den or Mages Tower. Neither of which have an effect on the final battle. 
 Nor does the number of men you manage to recruit makes a difference. So it is on the whole an not 
 fully realised feature. The game play is what you expect, if you liked the first NWN and Baldurs 
 Gate you'll like this, but just don't expect anything new.
  
  The community seems pretty good and Obsidian do seem to visit the boards and listen to suggestions 
 On the whole if you've played other DnD games and enjoyed them, you will enjoy this. However 
 it does trade depth for looks so dont expect the hours of gunplay youve got from the others 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ofensatul
Rating: 2
Date: Mar 17, 2007 7:45 pm PT
Review:  Worst graphics , worst gameplay , worst AI , worst rpg of the year by far. I still cannot understand 
 people who actually liked nwn 1 can say this one is even mediocre get a life. A true nwn fan will 
 delete this game after the first 10 minutes even played. And for a last note I must say my gaming 
 rig has a 7900GT with 3,2 D core and 2gigs dualgeil ultra rams and this lame game still chokes. 
 What must I say more ? don`t even waste the time to install it , not worth it. For my final statement 
 i might say something about the characters. Too many classes , subclasses not worth the point , 
 TOO SLOW FIGHTS one hit on 4-5 secs? come on give me a brake. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nigelholden
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 16, 2007 8:06 am PT
Review:  The first two acts were great. I played through despite the numerous bugs and sometimes having 
 to restart an hour or so back because of the occasional corrupt save file. However, Obsidian must 
 have rushed this game after the second act. I am not going to give away any details, but I will 
 say that the game's tone and presentation changes dramatically. Instead of an intriguing role playing 
 experience, it falls victim to bad level design and horrid scripting. And the ending was about 
 as insulting as anything else, given the time it took to complete this game. The gameplay was enjoyable. 
 The graphics were so so and took up more power than they should have. The audio was great except 
 one important piece of voice acting. This would have been the best game I have played for a long 
 time if not for the final third of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheShadowDawn
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 15, 2007 8:18 am PT
Review:  The easiest way to expose what a sub-par game NWN2 is to... well... compare it to Neverwinter Nights. 
 Somehow, the controls have become less organic and responsive, the intuitive radial menu design 
 is gone. I can't even right click to get the context menu - I have to hold down the right mouse 
 button. (How are you supposed to use the context menu on a moving target?)
  
  The Knights of the Old Republic style dialogue would constitute an improvement if - just speaking 
 hypothetically here - the voice actors weren't completely unconvincing, the dialogue wasn't terrible, 
 and if your conversations actually had any impact on the game more often.
  
  Similarly, the game borrows the influence system from Knights of the Old Republic 2 - which actually 
 used it to develop interesting backstories for characters and give them interesting bonuses. No 
 such luck in NWN2.
  
  The graphics are certainly prettier in some places, but in others they look hideous and you have 
 to wonder why the game demands such power to churn out a single mountainside texture that covers 
 the entire screen. Several of the mountain areas were designed in such an inspiring fashion! In 
 relation to the system requirements NWN2 demands, it is basically an ugly game.
  
  The plot is passable. It had no real pacing, no real twists, and had an annoying habit of overusing 
 not-very-subtle foreshadowing that didn't actually tell you anything useful about the story.
  
  The game is riddled with bugs - I am currently playing on 1.04 and I encounter such anomalies 
 as recruiting an NPC for my keep and having them never turn up (speak to them and they say I'll 
 leave as soon as I pack! ) or after recruiting a merchant for the keep, managing to trade with 
 him once before he stopped offering the ability to trade.
  
  I hit a real showstopper bug near the end of Act 2. The puzzle involves picking out the correct 
 phrase of 7 in a book; you will only know the exact phrase if you have a high enough Spellcraft 
 and Lore skill. I had high enough lore, which gave me a hint - so it only took me two guesses. 
 One of those guesses bugged one of my NPC's such that I could not regain control of him! I can 
 only assume since most players are not going to have high ranks in both those skills, that most 
 players have a good chance of hitting this bug. A fairly major one, if you don't pay attention 
 to it. Was the game tested by trained monkeys, or what?
  
  So, when you come down to it, the controls, interface and story are all worse than NWN, while to 
 counterbalance that you have ridiculous system requirements and a mediocre addition to the dialogue 
 system and NPC interaction. Each to their own, I guess.
  
  The only distinctly positive features of the game is the fact you can control multiple NPC's: the 
 AI is generally very good at controlling them, but occasionally - and with no seeming cause I can 
 identify - completely abandons them. Literally - the NPC's will at times refuse to actually move 
 or attack unless you broadcast a command via the context menu - or they will run into combat and 
 then stand there doing nothing. This occurred rarely enough though that I can let it pass - the 
 AI was, I must admit, quite impressive with its ability to manage skills, feats and spells in a 
 logical fashion.
  
  In short, NWN2 left me feeling like it was, well, a really average game. It did a few things right, 
 but then it also did a few things really, really wrong. To some extent I really felt cheated of 
 my time once I got into the game: it occurred to me, I could be playing a better, more fun game 
 than this . Sadly, my obsessive nature demands I finish all games I get into. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: indzman
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 15, 2007 2:56 am PT
Review:  Neverwinter Nights 2 is a decent RPG game. As in RPG games you have to create and customise your 
 own character in the beginning. Then you get teammates who follow your orders and you can choose 
 to play amongst you or your teammates for certain quests . The gameplay is very lenghty. You get 
 main mission coupled with many side quests. The graphics / visuals for game is quite okay and detailed 
 with shadows and water effects. Bou if u don't have a powerful P. C , you may struggle with low framerates 
 or turn off some advanced features in the options menu. But still the game looks good. The most catchy 
 thing of the game is its medieval music and overall good soundquality. AI is okay and the voiceacting 
 are very neatly done. In the game you get 9 new sub races ,new prestige classes and more. You can 
 create and host multiplayer D&amp; D adventures using the improved NWN 2 toolset. You can use new 
 spell ,feats from exciting dungeons and dragons v 3.5 rules .But the camera movement and combat 
 style in the game is bit awkard , i mean not user freindly. Overall RPG lovers who have missed this 
 game still now will love it. And everyone else can also enjoy it if they have a decent P. C to run 
 it. Make sure you patch the game before playing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dgsinc
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 17, 2007 10:53 am PT
Review:  My personal favorite RPG is Baldurs Gate II. It has an excellent story with the interesting characters 
 and game play to compliment it. When I played the first Neverwinter Nights I felt a bit disappointed 
 with the lack of companions (one one in the first game, and they cant be controlled.) I also wasn't 
 very fond of the story. Neverwinter Nights 2 for me brought that back. While not Baldur's Gate, 
 NWN2 allows you to have multiple companions whom are all controllable. I think it's safe to say 
 that NWN2 in someways is a balance in gameplay between Baldur's Gate and Neverwinter Nights.
  
  Overall I think the the story is very good. The plot sometimes seems to drop in some areas, 
 but is picked up. Despite this it's very interesting and can be altered depending on your choices 
 and influences with your companions. Your choices can change the quests available to you and even 
 offer an alternate ending to the game. The ending to the game is rather disappointing and doesn't 
 do the game justice. Hopefully there will be sequel continuing this story line to make up for it.
 
  
  A nice addition to Neverwinter Nights 2 is the influence system. Your actions and interactions 
 will influence your companion's opinion and loyalty to you. Having a good influence with certain 
 companions will cause them to be more open to you, provide support, and offer side quests. Unfortunitly 
 romance in NWN2 is limited. Each gender has only one option for a love interest, and with both 
 it has a minimal significance to the game.
  
  The gameplay overall is excellent. The interface has been improved greatly over Neverwinter Nights. 
 NWN2 has support for multiple hotbars allowing quicker access to spells, items, and abilities. 
 If your character uses magic then you're also able to use a feature that displays all known spells 
 for quick access. Both are useful, especially for magic users. The only downside to the interface 
 is perhaps the camera. While many people complain about it, I have had very little problems. Neverwinter 
 Nights 2 also has support for multiple different types of cameras allowing the player to find one 
 that suites them.
  
  All the classes that were in the first Neverwinter Nights are present in the second. The only exception 
 is the Shifter class. Neverwinter Nights 2 also introduces many new prestige classes as well as 
 a new base class, the Warlock.
  
  Another problem that is brought up a lot about Neverwinter Nights 2 is reliability. Many people 
 report technical problems and errors while playing. I personally have had very little issues with 
 Neverwinter Nights 2. I did start playing after installing the major updates to the game, which 
 might have fixed these issues. One thing to note is that in order to update the game you must have 
 eight or so free gigabytes of hard disk space for the updating process. Keep this in mind when 
 considering the requirements for hard disk space. The game it's self is about 6gb and to update 
 you need an additional 8gb free (you get the 8gb back after it's updated.) The only in game glitch 
 I encountered was while looking at the character sheets of my party members occasionally the picture 
 would be shown.
  
  Neverwinter Nights 2 is also a very demanding game. I have pretty powerful hardware, but I had 
 to set the setting down after thinking I could max them out. After a bit of tweaking a good balance 
 of performance and beauty can be reached.
  
  Overall Neverwinter Nights 2 is an excellent game. While a bit rough around the edges, it's a game 
 that's definitely worth the time playing for anyone who likes adventure RPGs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mivanc
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 10, 2007 12:40 pm PT
Review:  The score Gamespot gave NWN2 is pretty much what i think its worth.
  
  I received this Game as a gift for Christmas 2006 and tried to start playing it in january 2007. 
 I was kinda excited because NWN1 was a good game in my book and being an RPG fan (not superfan 
 mind you) I was hoping to get it installed and off to kill things.
  
  Not so in January. patching was like hell. the auto-patcher wouldn't patch. At all. kept downloading 
 and tying to re-install the update but wouldn't work.
  I ended up downloading a bunch of file patches from a fansite and running those files along with 
 a third party patcher to get the file to work. even then, I couldn't get past version 1.2. I played 
 despite this an ran into a couple bugs, notably one inventory glitch that seems to not allow me 
 to equipe certain equipment pieces. Reloading the game fixed this issue.
  
  When patch 1.4 came out, I re-installed the game (and started a new character) and this time, the 
 auto-updater downloaded patch 1.4 and installed it witout a glitch. From this point on, no more 
 problems.
  
  In terms of gameplay, this game has it all. I like the storyline, keeps you guessing but at the 
 same time, it kept me in it trying to figure things out with hints of dialogue here and there. 
 Graphics were ok for me. Ran everything at low to medium, turned off all shadows and such advanced 
 settings and still I found the game well enough for me. Wish though I had more power to move those 
 sliders up a notch, but what do you want, can't have all you want in life.
  
  Sounds was okay. I'm playing a Wizard now, after trying a cleric, druid and not liking those builds. 
 Almost done chapter 2. This game is worth picking up now that its been patched up good. Any RPG 
 fan should enjoy this. I know I did.
  
  Update December 10 2007 : I finally finished it, the OC anyways. Wizard build I mentionned above 
 didn't last. Found a build I liked, Druid 16 / Warpriest 4. Needed spellcasting and some melee 
 weapons. Sticked with it through to the end. Patching problems were seemingly fixed since I last 
 posted this review. I've lowered my score to 8.5 because the Ending was ok, not spectacular. Thinking 
 of starting over, maybe play evil to see the supposedly better ending. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YBonobo
Rating: 1.9
Date: Mar 7, 2007 10:36 am PT
Review:  This is it guys, i'm off Neverwinter Nights. A few months ago, I never thought I would get over 
 my addiction to this game, so when version 2 started being dealt at the corner of every street, 
 it took all my willpower to resist the initial urge to go get my fix. Until yesterday. Yesterday 
 I cracked and got it. It was an impulse buy. I felt ashamed,.. but I also felt good as I ran back 
 home with the holy grail grasped in my hands! I could'nt wait any longer to start the opening of 
 the Box ceremony, followed by the intense and never ending nail biting installation process...
 
  Everything worked perfectly!.. At the back of my mind something said Watch out, this is too good 
 to be true,.. there must be a catch somewhere.... 
  
  And right I was, after 2 or 3 hours, the initial thrill died, the haze dissipated itself slowly, 
 and I started wondering why I was still trying to follow my character properly, why I kept loosing 
 my henchmen, why it was so hard to move inside buildings as I could'nt see much... I finally realised 
 the magic was gone, I was no longer hypnotised... Today, I did it the unthinkable, I uninstalled 
 the game. Yes. You heard me right. I uninstalled Neverwinter Nights 2 after 24 hours.
  
  The worst thing is, it didn't hurt that much, I was detached, it wasn't the same thanks to a group 
 of people called Obsidian. They helped me get over this game real fast and with relative ease. 
 I cannot thank them enough. All those endless nights, all those pizza bits fallen on my keyboard 
 are a thing of the past now... I'm free! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PG213
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 12, 2007 2:12 pm PT
Review:  Though I didn't expect a Roleplaying game that would come close to the good old PC RP games like 
 Fallout, and baldur's Gate, I was eager to get my hands on NwN2 to give it a try since the first 
 Neverwinter Nights was quite enjoyable..
  
  At first I was pleasantly surprised by the game, which offers nice graphics, though they require 
 much from your PC; the gameplay is good, though it hasn't changed much from the first Neverwinter 
 game, and the story and characters where well put together and coherent with the setting.
  
  I really enjoyed the colourful blend of NPC's you can take along in your party, and the step 
 back from the small party gaming like the first neverwinter. With a large party behind you and 
 the detailed environments NwN2 kind off feels like Baldur's Gate with an enhanced 3D controlled 
 camera view.
  
  The quests in the game where ok, but not extremely surprising, bringing you what you would expect 
 from a campaign in the Forgotten Realms.
  
  I like playing the D&amp; D 3.5 rules and character generation, thus also created several characters 
 and re -started the game untill I had my hero worked out the way I wanted it to be.
  
  So overall i was happy to launch this game and play through the story, which often gives funny 
 situations, and charming clich&eacute;'s that any fantasy gamer will apreciate and recognise himself 
 in. For me the downside, like othe's have seem to have experienced as well, was the techincal glitches 
 and bugs in the game's engine. I am not some one who will complain about minor errors like clipping, 
 wrong audio presentation or anything minor that does not get in the way of my progress in the game, 
 but when I get stuck in a game, that doesn't seem to trigger an event that allows me to go on with 
 the campain I get frustrated.
  
  At a certain point I could not end a certain quest, because I could not engage conversation wit 
 the character around which the quest evolved. So I ended up stuck, able to run round from place 
 to place, but no able to continue the campaign and nothing to do. After leaving the area where 
 the NPC was located, the character even vanished leaving with no hope to ever carry on with this 
 game.
  
  I had allready re-started the game 3 or 4 times, so I got enormously bored when doing it a 5th 
 time, loosing my intrest in this game quickly. After I had adressed my problem to the support team 
 without any reply I uninstalled the game untill further notice.
  
  so I'd say this surely is not a bad game, even a good game, if it runs as it should. The other 
 downside would be the mentioned high requirements to run it, while the look if it isn't all that 
 amazing.
  
  I do not regret buying it, but I will probably not install it again any time soon and wait till 
 my intrest in a D&amp; D has awoken again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: torak101
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 6, 2007 2:18 am PT
Review:  I really enjoyed the game. It is head and shoulders above NWN. The canned adventure is pretty good 
 but where this game really shines and has almost unlimited value is in the community content.
 
  The toolset is still one of the best and easiest to use. I'm looking forward to tinkering around 
 with that now.
  The only issue I really had with the game was the controls felt clumsy at times. Also you are going 
 to need to patch this baby up like a wounded G. I at Omaha beach on D-Day before you play otherwise 
 its going to be a bloody mess. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cahey
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 5, 2007 11:20 am PT
Review:  I bought this game right when it came out, my system needed a windows overhaul though, so it ran 
 like crap. I recently got my computer running perfect so I started playing this game again, I played 
 all weekend. I love D&amp; D. I couldn't stop playing this game. It just keeps getting better and 
 better as the story gets deeper and deeper. There is so much to do in this game! The character 
 creation is so great. You could make so many different characters that the combinations are infinite. 
 And there are so many different choices that the game offers you, that you can do things different 
 almost every time you play! This is a great game, well done and great value. To be able to play 
 this game months and months after it originally came out and for it to still be this good is saying 
 something. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bjarni1
Rating: 3.3
Date: Mar 1, 2007 6:20 pm PT
Review:  I played all the Baldur's gate games and loved them, I heard that neverwinter was just about as 
 good if not better, so I went ahead and bought this. My first impression was lackluster graphics, 
 with ridiculous requirements (compared to the not-so-good graphics) , and a rather poor beginning, 
 as I played more I started to adjust to the graphics and the story was promising.
  Once I was actually starting to like this game I start getting all kinds of bugs, party members 
 disappearing and not responding to orders, failure in loading of some areas and some major graphical 
 errors aswell.
  After spending day after day trying to fix this game with patches and reinstalling over and over 
 again, I finally got it to work after about 20 new starts. The game runs smoothly all the way until 
 I get to a tavern I need to visit to keep on with the story, after seeing some long cutscene I 
 of course need to leave this tavern to continue my adventures, the problem is, I can't.
  After 2 weeks of trying to figure out how to leave this tavern I realised that no one else has 
 had this problem, so there is no help and I will never get to play this game, unless I buy a new 
 copy. I will never spend money on anything touched by Obsidian again, they obviously don't give 
 a sh*t if you got a bad copy or not. So this is my warning to you, I f you decide to buy this game, 
 and you're just looking for casual fun, put your money on something else, cause making this game 
 work has been like a second job the past month. On the other hand, if you're a fan of Forgotten 
 realms/D&amp; D games like me you might wanna give it a shot, and see if you get a good copy or 
 not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: immortaljester6
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 27, 2007 6:38 am PT
Review:  I had been waiting for this game for quite some time ever since i got into the first never winter 
 games, the thing that i have noticed when my friend got it for his lower end computer it was having 
 problems running it on the lowest settings, but once he got a newer viedo card he was pretty excited 
 to check it out yeah it still had some problems but he said that it ran a lot better than before. 
 Still its a very good game if you have a viedo card that can handle it and it is worth buying it 
 even if you only want to play story but the multiplayer is where never winter is big at..... very 
 good games made by some people out there. If you dont mind a few spots where the game will crash 
 or where they A. I. to help you does not do anything but stand there then you should like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xanaphiaundeath
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 26, 2007 1:33 pm PT
Review:  Since problems seem to be the most noticed I will start with them.
  
  As many have stated already the memory requirements/recommendations are enormous for minimal benefit. 
 Given, you will notice a difference between Minimum and Maximum detail settings but not enough 
 of one that would require that much processing/video power. The camera is another focus of complaint 
 and it does take a while to get used to. Once I grew accustom to it I loved it. Yes there were 
 times that it would somehow get stuck behind something and it can be difficult to click on open 
 space when you are zoomed in (party members seem to get in the way along with doors) . Pathing (characters 
 sticking) also was a problem that at times that would get very irritating.
  
  On the up side I personally feel that the game is incredible. I am also the player that will try 
 to complete every side quest and mission possible so it did take me significantly longer to complete 
 it than most people.
  
  The biggest change that I have enjoyed about NWN2 that was lacking on NWN is the player interaction 
 and character depth. In the first game you could expedite conversations by just hitting 1 over 
 and over again without fear of serious repercussion. NWN2 introduced the Influence system which 
 reflects your attitude/actions toward the specific character throughout the game. The sticky side 
 to this concept is the fact that many times you have extreme opposites in your group and gaining 
 influence with one will hurt it with the other. This system also allows you to develop a unique 
 personality concept for your character that can be reflected through the dialogue which makes your 
 character's achievements feel so much more real.
  
  NWN2 also offers a new type of game play that has not been done before. Imagine Lord of the Rings 
 meets Neverwinter Nights (build a castle, recruit soldiers, recruit merchants/weapon smiths/generals, 
 defend a siege) and you have a good concept of the middle/end game experience. This was probably 
 my favorite part of the 2nd game.
  
  My major personal complaint about the game is the ending. NWN2 offers no smooth transition out 
 at the end, but instead throws you straight into a brick wall at the climax. After beating it I 
 was left wondering What kind of ending was that?? once the epilogue was finished.
  
  Despite the few problems, NWN2 is very successful at creating a hack-'n-slash / role-playing environment 
 that will draw the player into the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kbnj_basic
Rating: 1.7
Date: Feb 25, 2007 7:25 pm PT
Review:  I loved NWN 1 and all of its expansion packs. It is one of my favorite games of all time and have 
 probably played thru 5 times .................. I was looking forward to NWN 2 and rushed out to 
 buy it. Plunked down 40 bucks, and I wish I could get my money back. Are the professional reviewers 
 on drugs or what? 8.5 from Gamespot!!!! This game is abysmal. I wanted to love it , and have tried 
 to play it keeping it loaded on my computer for the last 3 months. Every time I start it up I hope 
 I was mistaken and it will be amazing. The graphics are ugly and bring your computer to a standstill 
 unless you have a supercomputer. The camera is the worst part of the game, making it all but unplayable. 
 I have tried all 4 options and none of them are any better than the other. You constantly have 
 to adjust the camera angle after every click of the mouse making the fighting scenes especially 
 tedious. I'm getting a migraine just thinking about it. Why! Why! Why! did they ruin this game? 
 I wonder if the developers actually played this after they completed it. I dont see how they could 
 have, Its that bad. Everyone is ranting and raving about the amazing story line, but how can you 
 even enjoy it when you are so frustrated with everything else? This is the first time I have written 
 a review at Gamespot, motivated by sheer frustration and disappointment! ;- ( P. S I have patched 
 the game numerous times and this has not helped at all. I have a fairly decent computer with a 
 P4 3.4 GHz Extreme edition, 2 gigs of ram, and an Nivida 7800gs graphics card. One last bone to 
 pick..... The game has numerous scenes which have to be loaded. pretty much every few minutes you 
 go to an area or cut scene which has to be loaded , and the loads take a long time and are very 
 distracting! OK I think I'm done complaining for now. Gonna go install Oblivion again. the best 
 RPG Ive played to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigfish_ak
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 25, 2007 12:25 am PT
Review:  A huge factor in the games entertainment value to me is a chalange. A game with pathetic AI usualy 
 has pathetic chalenges. The way combat takes pkace is too similar to KOTOR2 (whatever character 
 you control gets attacked, and whatever your controlling character is attacking is going to be 
 ganged up on by your companions.) I tried to play with puppet master on but it didn't operate right. 
 I liked the first neverwinter nights very much, and have been patiently waiting for the release 
 for a couple of years now. And durring all the waiting I was assuming Obsidian would refine the 
 AI they had in their first BioWare followup. But again Obsidian bit off more than they could chew 
 and sullied a beutiful game with the most horibly basic AI, when I play this game it feels like 
 Doom 3 without the guns. There is more to games than pretty graphix, which this game is beutiful. 
 And AI is one of the most important parts of a games entertainment value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Neothelid
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 24, 2007 7:57 am PT
Review:  Ask any veteran gamer for legendary CRPGs, and chances are you'll get some or all of these games 
 in his answer: the Baldur's Gate series, PlaneScape: Torment, Knights of the Old Republic, and 
 Neverwinter Nights. The predecessor to NWN2 was received with equal doses of wonder and disappointment; 
 fans pointed at the solid gaming experience it provided, being as it was as closest as possible 
 a true implementation of pen-and-paper Dungeons and Dragons rules into a computer game, while critics 
 flamed the poor performance of its graphics engine, noted the huge amount of bugs, and blasted 
 the constraints of the official campaign. Well, all such arguments are back in Neverwinter Nights 
 2, with a few extra issues to spice up the mix.
  
  The gameplay basics in NWN2 have not undergone any changes worth noticing; it still is about pointing 
 at the target NPC with your mouse and engaging in some sort of activity with it. This is one of 
 the strongest aspects of the game; once again, a great deal of time was invested into translating 
 the D&amp; D core rules into the game, and similar efforts were done to balance classes with skills 
 that could not be converted. A healthy amount of prestige classes and character development options 
 have been added; some of these were present in the two expansion packs released for NWN, but this 
 second installment of the series boasts a lot of new content on this matter. Power gamers are going 
 to love the magic item crafting component built into the game, though it was more faithfully implemented 
 in Troika's Temple of Elemental Evil. However, there are some major weaknesses, most of all the 
 poor pathfinding, worse (and bug-riddled) scripting, and horrible AI performance. The options provided 
 for tuning the way your party members work do help, though nowhere near enough. The official campaign 
 is very good, and can inspire frantic levels of addiction but when compared to Hordes of the Underdark, 
 or before it, to Baldur's Gate, NWN2's plot doesn't even get close. Furthermore, it has limited 
 replayability value; once you finish it once or twice, chances are you will not have any substantial 
 reasons to play it a third time.
  
  The first game of the saga suffered from lackluster graphics; one would sincerely wish to be able 
 of saying otherwise about NWN2, but sadly, that is not the case. Its graphics engine does a horribly 
 lousy job at portraying the world of Toril and seizes all of your computers power in the process; 
 even state-of-the-art decks will be hard pressed to run NWN2 on a decent framerate. Obsidian claims 
 the game is able to crank out 30-50 FPS with most graphics options toned down on a mid-range system, 
 but tons of complaints and enraged replies on the official forums as well as this reviewers personal 
 experience put a huge interrogation sign on top of such an assertion. Furthermore, in addition 
 to the ridiculous strain in exchange for a clumsy FPS rate, the engine is plagued with bugs everywhere, 
 most notably the sky being a mass of multicolored lines and dots in my case. One is tempted to 
 ponder how difficult can it be to put together a graphics engine that actually gets the job done; 
 older games heavy on 3D NCSofts Lineage II, Valves Half-Life 2 and Id Softwares Doom 3, to 
 name a few put significantly less strain into the CPU and yield immensely better results.
  
  Sound-wise, the performance of Neverwinter Nights 2 is significantly better. Music is good 
 most of the time, with some excellent tunes played in decisive moments; sound effects namely, 
 spellcasting are memorable, and voice acting is just plain amazing. Youll grow to love many of 
 your party members, if not for their looks, then because of their voice: a tiefling rogue with 
 a healthy pride, a dwarven fighter with a penchant for brawling, a gnomish bard who seems to have 
 lost one or two of his marbles, an elven wizard with the speech of a razor blade and a sorceress 
 with a severe attitude problem and issues with authority are some of the colorful figures whose 
 speech you wont ever get tired of listening over and over and over. A particular scene of the 
 game has your character entering the tavern that serves as his headquarters on the city of Neverwinter, 
 only to find the tiefling and the dwarf exchanging second-hand insults, to be literally flayed 
 alive by the sorceress in turn; while by no means the most significant exchange in the game, it 
 brings up a hearty laugh and hints at much, much better, greater, and livelier performances. However, 
 do not expect such a flawless job on any translation of the game; a sad example of this is the 
 Spanish version, which unceremoniously destroys the charisma and flavor of most NPCs because of 
 its bland voice acting. The original Neverwinter Nights and its subsequent expansions spawned a 
 colossal modding community which in turn gave life to literally hundreds of different online realms; 
 however, it took a solid patching job and demanded quite some time, and pondering whether that 
 will be the case with NWN2 is not a worthless question. The toolset shipped with the game suffers 
 from accessibility and stability issues, as well as humongous module sizes; coupled with stringent 
 requirements for establishing a multiplayer session all players must have downloaded and installed 
 the corresponding module, to name one, steep system prerequisites and the way online play wreaks 
 havoc on an already lousy framerate, it seems that quite some time and polishing will be needed 
 for the Neverwinter Nights 2 online community to blossom into something that can compare to that 
 which was given birth by its predecessor.
  
  The final word for Neverwinter Nights 2 could be rushed. The amount of bugs, the many technical 
 issues, the considerable system requirements, the poor performance of its graphics engine and the 
 problems of the SecuROM copy protection system which is infuriatingly prone to all sorts of failures 
 and contingencies that only hurt legitimate owners are all reasons enough to think of Atari as 
 a publisher who cares as little for customer satisfaction as much as it cares for profits, since 
 the brilliant minds who gave birth to a jewel such as KOTOR undoubtedly would have solved all these 
 nuances if the game had been released only a few months later. Still, none of these problems can 
 conceal the true potential NWN2 has for becoming a legend once all its issues have been dealt with. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nocoolnamejim
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 21, 2007 8:40 am PT
Review:  My first game review!
  
  Neverwinter Nights 2: Executive Summary
  
  The Good: This has an excellent storyline, the best Ive seen in a game in years. The voice acting 
 and music is excellent. The mini-game of Crossroad Keep is a lot of fun. The characters you interact 
 with in the game are interesting and have distinct personalities. The ability to craft ones own 
 items is a nice touch .The game has a lot of value with many, many hours of gameplay.
  
  The Bad: The ending to the storyline, if you play a good aligned character, is unsatisfying. It 
 clearly is paving the way for an expansion pack, but after the number of hours required getting 
 there, it should be more rewarding. The technical issues in the game are beyond frustrating at 
 times. The single relationship option for the male character feels very tacked on and sudden. The 
 interactions with the other, important NPC characters could be more complete (like KOTOR 1) . This 
 game needed another 6-12 months of development time before being released. The graphics are not 
 good compared to the system requirements. Frequently, you get the impression that the game just 
 never got completely finished as there seems like you should be able to do more in various places 
 only to be unable to do so.
  
  Game Reviewed On: 2.8 ghz CPU BFG 7800gs overclocked video card, 2 GB Kingston Hyper-X DDR Ram.
 
  
  Complete Review: Bad First
  
  Neverwinter Nights 2, like Obsidians previously released game Knights of the Old Republic 2, is 
 a great game that should have been an excellent one. Sadly, like Knights of the Old Republic 2, 
 the first place to begin is the technical issues. (Ill get to the good stuff later.)
  
  First allow me to preface this by saying that I started playing the game several months after the 
 release date in February. I cant imagine how bad some of these issues were to early adopters of 
 the game before the patches. The list of technical issues includes, but is by no means limited 
 to:
  
  1. The camera is awful. It requires constant attention and disrupts the flow of the game.
  2. 
 The characters can be seen walking through doors and walls with alarming frequency.
  3. The following/movement script of your NPC companions is buggy. Sometimes the NPCs will just 
 sit in place and youll have to tell them repeatedly to follow.
  4. The loading times are very long, and since youre frequently moving back and forth between different 
 zones they really disrupt the game.
  5. Some of the conversations can be buggy as well. For example, at some point during the game youre 
 given your own Keep to build up. I built up the keep with everything possible, and then afterwards 
 the guy doing the building looped back and said I hadnt built anything yet.
  6. The graphics of the game vs. the systems requirements are extremely subpar. To achieve even 
 minimally acceptable graphics  particularly when compared to games like Oblivion  requires an 
 extremely beefy system.
  
  I could go on. Suffice to say that this game was released before it was ready to be. Another symptom 
 of the premature release revolves around the dialogs with the other characters. They are extremely 
 limited, relying almost exclusively around who you bring along with you on quests during the game 
 to build influence. With me, this left me constantly fretting over who I still had influence to 
 gain with when deciding who to take along with me on quests rather than feeling free to just take 
 who I liked along. Considering that some of the storylines for the characters are very, very brief 
 (Your Tiefling thief was just BEGGING for further development) , this can be frustrating. (SPOILER 
 ALERT) This is particularly frustrating later on towards the end as several characters can possibly 
 turn on you if you havent been building influence with them all along. (SPOILER FINISHED)
  
  Now lets get to some of the very good parts of the game. Ill start with the storyline, which 
 is a solid A+.
  
  This storyline has just about everything you could want in a rpg these days. It has surprises, 
 fascinating characters, growing suspense, intermediary victories and losses, and a grand conclusion. 
 Without giving too much away, I cant elaborate a lot. Suffice to say that it is one of the most 
 complete storylines in years. It certainly is more complete than Oblivions was.
  
  Supporting the great storyline is a bunch of very good to excellent music and voice acting. Usually 
 in games these days, you have to take the bad with the good. That isnt the case here. The quality 
 level is consistently high throughout, and goes a long way towards making the characters feel like 
 real people.
  
  In particular, some of the bad guy voices and Sands voice are a lot of fun to listen to. And speaking 
 of the characters, while I said earlier they needed further development and more extensive storylines, 
 where they excel is in some of their conversations with each other and the one-liners. Some of 
 the characters clearly like each other more than others, and they certainly react to how you treat 
 them as real people would.
  
  A nice touch is that some of the characters will clearly pick up on your preferences towards or 
 against them as compares to their favorite foil. A good example is the Paladin Casavir vs. the 
 evil ranger Bishop. Favoring one or the other will lose you influence in the other direction, which 
 is how it should be. These two are way too different for you to be friends with them both.
  
  At some point youre given a Keep to manage, and while this could be a little more extensive, 
 the people you get at the keep, particularly your second in command Kana, are fantastic. Its a 
 little unclear just how much, if any, your choices here impact the story, or if there is any real 
 benefit to be had to actually building up your Keep, but it is a fun minigame and doing so gives 
 you a lot of pride.
  
  Well, that about covers it. Please send me a PM if you want further details. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: btindall
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 27, 2007 3:16 pm PT
Review:  A lot of gameplay here, and it's quite enjoyable.
  
  The story in this game is superior to its predecessor, Neverwinter Nights. It's much better tied 
 together and makes far more sense than in your average RPG (not less silly, just better told :) . 
 It perhaps was the most impressive feature of the game.
  
  The graphics are impressive but something of a mixed bag. While everything looks great, it taxes 
 my system's capabilities a lot. Okay, I don't have the highest-end system, but one has to ask whether 
 it's really that important that every room have an elaborate ceiling, when it doesn't impact gameplay. 
 It was very rare that I bothered to lower the camera to look at the ceilings. So I was taking a 
 performance hit but not always with good reason. Clearly the graphics engine was based on Knights 
 of the Old Republic (and Jade Empire) , but KOTOR was less ambitious graphically, without the highend 
 requirements which tend to bog this game down a bit.
  
  The camera also is a problem. Frequently it was blocked by some object or other. Even in the cut 
 scenes, you're supposed to be seeing character interaction, but you might be looking at nothing 
 more than a characters leg or something because the character happens to be standing in front of 
 the camera. I played as a halfling character, so while the camera was supposed to be focusing in 
 on him, it would sometimes simply be focused on empty air over his head. In gameplay, the camera 
 was distracting and took some getting used to. It was a challenge to see what I needed to see at 
 times. This was not such a problem in Knights of the Old Republic, because in that game the camera 
 moved mostly just horizontally, not vertically, as in this game. You just didn't have trees blocking 
 your view very often. Sure, the graphics are superior, but here they just don't always work right 
 with the interface.
  
  Combat is handled well. There are many varying ways to fight, and many character attributes that 
 can be brought into play. And there are a lot of wonderful character creation and development options. 
 I have not yet begun to explore half of them.
  
  Gone is the warping back to base to replenish supplies and heal, but I didn't miss it all that 
 much. Instead, you could have your characters rest and regain full hit points and replentish spells. 
 Sometimes it was annoying, like when I had to have them backtrack a ways until they were far enough 
 from enemies to be able to rest. However, it's more realistic.
  
  The game was buggy too, but much better since they've been patching it. I had some problems with 
 the sound until they patched the game to 1.04. After that it worked beautifully. But they still 
 haven't fixed all the bugs, and this keeps the game from being as good as it could be.
  
  And then there's the problem with load times. It's not just the graphics loading, it's the design. 
 Just starting the game up you have to wait a bit and then hit escape like about a dozen times just 
 to get to the main menu. Don't these people ever learn anything? Do you think I'm going to have 
 a good impression of the game if I'm exasperated before I can even get it loaded? Bottom line, 
 however, is that it's an incredible RPG, one of the best I've played, and I definitely recommend 
 it to all those who can look past its shortcomings. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: antoniodowns
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 19, 2007 11:34 pm PT
Review:  The original Neverwinter Nights had an interesting story plot that twisted and unfolded as you 
 played deeper into the game. The wailing death it was called and and it was a grand ol search for 
 the cure and who done it theme. This game is very diffrent from the original. One being that this 
 game is grossly a performance guzzler. Even with the best computer you will be limited to have 
 the settings set at medium if you dont like to loose your fps. The shadow maps on the characters 
 and the water effects are marginal but take a big toll on computer performance. Another factor 
 is that this game dosent take advantage to the already standard dual core cpus you will find that 
 neverwinter 2 is only running on one of your cpus with the other one idle. The story line is super 
 cheesy, the is almost no new music, the music was just simply ported over from the old game youll 
 find the same music as you fight and wander through neverwinter its just a little modified from 
 the original version. The graphics however look exceptionally better, fight scenes are dramatic 
 casting spells will mean your monitor will be lit up with detailed and dazzling effects. Its easier 
 to carry around henchmen in this game and it allows up to 3 heanch men with you and you dont die 
 unless all of your team is defeated; the people who die are revived once the remaining henchmen 
 kill off all the enimies in the area, a smart move since its annoying to have to go back to a hotel 
 just because someone died. My final thoughts is that this game is pretty good but its just a dragging 
 repetitive after thought of the first neverwinter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eclarkdog
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 19, 2007 9:36 am PT
Review:  Finally a game has come around recently that I'm interested in. I have had a long drought with 
 video games over the past year. The last decent game was Tomb Raider: Legends. I like RPGs to a 
 degree, but while often intriguing I get overwhelmed by the micromanagement of inventory. I played 
 Baldur's Gate, NeverWinter 1 and Dungeon Seige. Not to offend the purists out there, but I just 
 got burned out on them. I want a cool story and character development, but not running around trying 
 to find and open every damn box, chest, crate, armoire, desk, etc.. Getting burned out on these 
 games was a disappointment to me as I felt they were truly great games. This brings me to NWN 2. 
 I should state first that I have not finished the game, but I am enjoying it thoroughly. I'm well 
 into the second chapter and plan to edit my review following completion of the game. I wanted to 
 get some thoughts down now.
  
  What makes NWN 2 a success in my mind is that it is more story driven than it's predecessors. I 
 know this absolutely infuriates the die-hard RPG fans that like the open world, but this is what 
 I like. Furthermore, NWN 2 did away with a majority of the boxes, crates, etc. in the game. There's 
 still plenty of items to acquire throughout the journey via the quests, merchants, and.. yes... your 
 chest or crate. Also, unlike NWN 1, this game actually works. NWN 1 was a constant crash monster 
 on my high end pc and video card. NWN 2 runs smooth as silk. So in summary, here are the pros/cons 
 of the game:
  
  Pros:
  1) Great and intriguing story 2) Story driven
  3) Good if not great graphics
  4) Cool items and weapons, but the entire game is not spent finding 
 them
  5) Generally excellent D&amp; D gameplay
  6) Music is atmospheric and suits environments
  7) Interesting characters
  8) Overall engrossing 
 fanstasy world
  9) You acquire a keep and get to upgrade it - now how cool is that
  10) Single-player game appears to be fairly massive
  
  Cons:
  1) Inconsistent voice acting 
 - for each good voice actor there are twice as many atrocious ones. I'm from the south (US) and 
 don't feel it's right to have a southern accent in a fantasy rpg or really any american accents 
 for that matter
  2) Decent sidekick quests but should be more tied to main character. This tends to be a problem 
 with a lot of RPGs. You complete a couple of sidequests and then your team is just there for fighting. 
 Their story and dialog trees should progress with the game. 3) Although the main character influences 
 the other team characters it does not appear that alignments can be adjusted - at least I haven't 
 found a way. Really blows that the ranger is evil.
  
  Well, that's enough for now. Again, I'll beef this review up after I finish the game. From other 
 reviews, which are certainly mixed, I've gathered that the ending is somewhat disappointing - I 
 hope this is not true. This is the first game that has kept me up all night in a long time.
  
  I hope more RPGs are like this in the future. This reminds me a lot of KOTR without the turned-base 
 strategy. Actually, I think it would be cool if this was a TBS - it would be easier to manage combat 
 especially spell-casting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chris1974ma
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 17, 2007 1:47 am PT
Review:  The good: The storyline is engaging. The new prestige classes are fun. The game is very stable, 
 even on an older machine like mine.
  
  The bad: The camera controls are terrible. The collision detection has you bumping into objects 
 that have been made invisible by the camera controls to not block your view, yet at other times 
 you will find your screen displaying nothing but the roof of a building. The voice acting is just 
 plain bad. The solo campaign is very linear; remember the good old days when level designers put 
 you on roads with short hills on both sides to keep you on the beaten trail? Those days are back.
 
  
  The worst: Every time you hit a major encounter that goes to a cut scene or dialogue, it doesn't 
 matter which character you had in the front of your group, your avatar will get teleported to the 
 front and put right in the middle of the fight. Not so fun if you're a wizard and youve been trying 
 to keep the tank between you and the guy with the greatsword. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheArcane
Rating: 7.1
Date: Feb 16, 2007 2:06 pm PT
Review:  A quick confession  I have not yet finished the game or the first chapter, even. This is because 
 the game is frustratingly slow on my system. Now, normally, I wouldnt let technical issues get 
 in the way, as many people, who dont always have the money to have a state-of-the art gaming rig 
 but still want to enjoy a good game experience. Unfortunately, NWN 2 fails to provide me with a 
 reason to want to push on, time and time again. This was just to ward off anyone who would be more 
 interested in a review by someone who completed the game.
  Another thing worth mentioning is the inevitable comparisons to the interplay RPG legends: Baldurs 
 Gate and Planescape: Torment. I know some people are annoyed by such comparisons, especially those 
 claiming NWN is a  game, but I have three main reasons to keep 
 using them. One: They, IMHO, are the best ever and still without a proper successor. Two: They 
 were mentioned numerous times along with NWN 2 and promises for a good single player campaign. 
 (Not to forget, not everyone is or can be a toolset user, and the game is much centered on the 
 SP campaign.) Three: Obsidian is supposed to be the same people who brought us these titles.
  Like its predecessor, NWN 2 nails the Dungeons and Dragons ruleset perfectly, cleverly adjusting 
 it to the real-time and thus more quick-paced nature of gameplay. Taken online, it is probably 
 the best way to play D&amp; D minus the pen and paper. This also means that, true to D&amp; D, character 
 customization is a blast. There are lots of races and classes to choose from, loads of feats and 
 skills and plenty of other ways to customize your character with different selections of spells 
 and equipment. Also, in the spirit of D&amp; D, people have very powerful tools with which they 
 can craft their own adventures in amazing detail and play them together with a DM.
  This is the part where, unfortunately, I run out of compliments for the game.
  The plot (Yes, 
 I know I have not yet finished half of it) does not really pull me in. Really, the  
 thing has been done so many times, and better (BG series) . Of course, it is way better than the 
 original NWNs horrible SP campaign. But, its not really the epic and heroic thing that was promised 
 in the previews. Theres another thing wrong with it, in my opinion. Its rather, I dont know, 
 convoluted? Githyanki, silver swords, shadow priests I know its a high fantasy game, but its 
 both non-standard and very narrow in the same time. I mean, there are hardly any goblins or kobolds 
 or stuff like that. In fact, Id go as far as saying there is no coherent feeling to the world 
 because of this. Adding to this feeling (lack of, actually) is the fact that Ive only stumbled 
 upon two or three sidequests in a supposedly huge city and that there are approximately four merchants 
 in it. The characters also give to me the impression that someone tried either too hard or too 
 little to come up with them. Khelgar is funny, but a dwarf wanting to be a monk? Some would call 
 it brilliant writing. I say that not every good character needs a clever twist. Maybe its just 
 because I cant figure out how the heck to finish his quests when Im already at level 10 and running 
 out of monk levels for him. Then theres a tiefling rogue, a gnome bard, an elf druid and a human 
 paladin. There is a stark contrast between them and Khelgar, surely you see what I mean. And the 
 starkest contrast of them all is between the plotline and actually playing it out. About 90% of 
 the missions involve walking through a linear series of rooms/caves/crypts and fighting groups 
 after groups of identical enemies. Even BG was pretty heavy on the combat, but never in a boring 
 and repetitive way like this game.
  Gameplay is pretty messed up. The camera is very cumbersome and controlling it takes way too much 
 attention from the game itself. Controlling the aforementioned multitude of abilities, items and 
 spells is also a nightmare. Nothing gets placed in the quickbar automatically. The feat list does 
 not show clearly which are passive and which need to be activated and thus can be dragged to the 
 toolbar. The inventory menu has icons that are too small and unclear, and viewing information about 
 an item targets it for some reason, making you click an extra time to un-target it afterwards. 
 Combat is a mess thanks to awful party AI. Your followers basically just buff and attack, using 
 potions when they are hurt. Its impossible to direct them against a specific opponent or to make 
 them run away, and they use absolutely no special abilities, items, etc. They dont even switch 
 to a melee weapon when they run out of ammo! I decided to use them in puppet mode, hoping for BG 
 style tactical combat, but I discovered that the game probably wasnt meant for it. You have to 
 pause the game a lot (no autopause options at all) and switch from character to character, giving 
 orders one at a time. It is tedious and distracting. Eventually I put everybody in normal AI mode 
 except for the sorceress, and then I discovered that the real reason behind the stupid behavior 
 is that there is absolutely no need for cleverness in this game. Combat boils down to quicksaving 
 before the next room (see end of previous paragraph) , buffing up, sending everybody to fight melee 
 and using the sorceress to blast the living daylights out of everything with the most damaging 
 area spells available. There is no friendly fire. Of course, the enemy AI, which is also bad, 
 immediately attacks the sorceress, ignoring the 20+ damage per hit fighters who quickly finish 
 them off. If she dies its no problem. Only a TPK (total party kill) can end your game. Once combat 
 is over, as long as one character is still standing all the others wake up with one hit point. 
 This would still be a problem if the game had any restrictions for resting, which you can do practically 
 in any situation. So its basically save, buff, kill, rest and repeat a whole bunch of times.
 
  From a technical point of view, the game has very high system requirements and can easily bring 
 a mid-range machine to its knees. Im running it at a very low resolution with hardly anything 
 turned on and it still stutters. For perspective, HL2 runs fine and dandy for me at the same resolutions 
 with more stuff turned on. And its prettier. I just cant figure out where all the resources go. 
 The game is very heavy. The loading times are ridiculous, and there are lots of them. The graphics 
 upgrade made module sizes rocket to the sky, forcing the campaign to be split into many smaller 
 modules and resulting in yet more loading times. The toolset has gotten a lot more powerful thanks 
 to the new engine features, but also a lot less user friendly. Also, it has very little content. 
 I guess its related to everything growing in size, but damn, not even all the dragon types are 
 in there! Thats not even proper freedom in building new modules. The game also came out in a very 
 buggy state but theres no point in talking about it because fixes are constantly being released. 
 Nevertheless, people who buy the game expect it to be playable immediately, not when version 1.0X 
 eventually comes out.
  Out of the box, its a sub-average role playing game, with a pretty shallow atmosphere and very 
 little depth in both gameplay and story. In the age of the MMORPG, its also hard to recommend 
 this game for its multiplayer factor to a new customer, unless hes familiar with D&amp; D. Just 
 like with the previous game then, all hope lies with the community to improve the game and keep 
 it going, because this is really the only crowd who will truly want and enjoy this game, as an 
 upgrade to NWN, nothing less, nothing more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: apocmessiah
Rating: 4.8
Date: Feb 16, 2007 11:20 am PT
Review:  I was a huge fan of never winter nights, buying all the expansions, building my own modules and 
 playing on onine for nea; ry 3-4 years. I knew the game pretty much inside out and was really looking 
 foward to the sequel. Unfortunately i have been terribly dissappointed, and have felt severely 
 deceived by the various professional reviewers who have quite clearly given biased reviews for 
 unknown reasons. This game is a far cry from the greatness of never winter nights 1 and the reviewers 
 have forgotten what made this game great. Firstly the interface. They were the first 3d rpg game 
 that had everthing controlled by the mouse. With a right or left click in the right place and every 
 menu option was available. It was one of the first rpg games that had quick slots which has been 
 taken up by all of mmorpgs we see today. It's interface was groundbreaking and influenced the future 
 of rpg's. Yet in this game it seems they have taken a step backwards. This user friendly interface 
 is not there anymore and has been replaced by a clunky and confusing affiair that makes real time 
 role play a nightmare. Let us not forget that it was the interface that made this real time role 
 play possible, and now it just isant there anymore.
  
  Secondly, the camera work. The camera interface was very simple to use and smooth in never winter 
 nights 1, there was very little instances where the camera would affect the action and get in the 
 way of play. In never winter nights is down and out destroys the gameplay with it's lagging camera 
 motion and constant twisting and turning. The battles are a frustrating affair as you spend the 
 majority of your time trying to sort out the camera so you can see your enemy to fight. This NEVER 
 happened in NWN. It has made the game virtually unplayable and has rendered all the fancy graphics 
 pointless. Now we come to the graphics. They are quite nice to look at but the demands they put 
 on a machine is stupid for the return you get. Now the professional reviewers tend to have state 
 of the art &pound;3000 + machines that could quite easily run games like Fear at 50X aniostropic 
 filtering on a cinema screen. So when these say that the game is resource hungry then the alarm 
 bells should start ringing. Furthermore the graphics you get still to match up to the pure serene 
 ambiance people have become accustomed to in games like Oblivion. Sound is good and cut scenes 
 so far seem pretty good. However from what i've seen so far the free roaming play is limited, whether 
 this changes or not later in the game i dont know, but it's not looking promising, yet another 
 set back. The game mechanics have changed very little since NWN1 which is acceptable as they were 
 very good. But it would have been nice to see some better features for seasoned NWN players to 
 get to grips with, as it just seems like the older game but with more bugs and different grpahics. 
 This game has no replay value and to be honest i've already given up on it in the first few hours 
 of play due to the number of frustrations mentioned earlier.
  
  This game does not deserve to have the Never winter nights label attached to it. It seems just 
 like a pale imitation of the original and is like comparing Pink Floyd to a tribute band.... not 
 even in the same league. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: msy670
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 14, 2007 12:53 am PT
Review:  game is good. But not enough different according to first game
  same system but I don't like new 3.5 rules in game. some important chracter's have very good model 
 in game but some chracter model's terrible. AI not' very good but It's enough.
  Graphics are beautiful and require high and system.
  Sound's and music same style Only expert 
 gamers must select D&amp; D rules
  Game's subject interesting and Sometimes game is boring and sometimes lively
  I didn't see enough 
 spell in the game Some spell remove in the game and I hate this not enough spell in the game. You 
 must set up party and forward your party in the game. If you like rpg games you must play this 
 game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: goid
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 13, 2007 2:56 pm PT
Review:  Neverwinter Nights 2 is a game I waited for a long time, and while I'm playing it and enjoying 
 it, I'm disappointed overall.
  
  The system requirements are far too much for what you get in terms of playability.
  
  The graphics 
 look great, but actually end up less useful than the original game.
  
  The world you play in is full of enticing details that you can't actually do anything with. I rather 
 they weren't there sucking up CPU and GPU resources if I can't use them.
  
  The game control, camera control, and player movements are problematic.
  
  Your party AI is 
 terrible, and of all the things I was hoping for in the second version of NWN, AI improvements 
 were top of the list.
  
  Because you spend so much time zoomed out, the graphics aren't even seen during a lot of the game 
 play.
  
  Loading times between areas are very long, and a few times you are forced to load a new area, only 
 to be forced back to an older area moments later, making parts of the game very frustrating.
  
  The game still has the common flaw of many games where quests don't expire like they would 
 in real life. You can leave something hanging forever, and it come back to it as if nothing had 
 happened.
  
  I once let a fire burn for days, with no penalty. I understand the game mechanical reasons for 
 this, but really was hoping NWN2 might solve this problem.
  
  Character interaction isn't very good, really not much better than NWN. In fact, plenty of user 
 created NWN modules are better than the character interaction in NWN2.
  
  Your characters mindlessly repeat the same thing over and over, and the dialog interface is terrible.
 
  
  The inventory interface is terrible, a huge step backwards from NWN, which itself needed improvement.
 
  
  Your character is almost as stupid as your party, as you will just stand there and get hacked up 
 with no reaction. Given how hard it can be to tell what is going on sometimes, a little more automation, 
 or at least some automatic defense would be nice.
  
  In the first few areas of the game, the selection of weapons and armor is terrible, and the merchants 
 you need to talk to are too scattered. This makes outfitting for a new mission more of a FedEx 
 quest than an adventure.
  
  Games like this either need to downplay the importance of getting new weapons, armor, and supplies, 
 or they need to eliminate the fedex quests required to equip.
  
  I'm going to enjoy the game, but I hope future D&amp; D adventures do a better job. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shehzad202
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 10, 2007 9:41 am PT
Review:  Firstly, this game has some beefy hardware requirements. I have an older computer, and this game 
 struggled to run; I have heard from people with newer machines that it is not all that smooth on 
 their machines either.
  
  Out of the box, the game was fairly buggy; this has been alleviated somewhat with successive patches. 
 However, the multiplayer functionality is still poor, with many features that were standard in 
 NWN1 still missing, and the online community is still struggling to plug the gaps.
  
  The solo campaign is fairly solid, better than NWN1's, though not quite up to the high standard 
 of Planescape: Torment or the Baldur's Gate series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonwilles
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 7, 2007 12:02 am PT
Review:  Through the first two thirds of this game I remember thinking that I had finally found the game 
 that would fill the hole that Fallout left in my heart. I was immediately pulled into extensive 
 character development system. This was my second venture into the Forgotten Realms and I am by 
 no means versatile in the ways of +2 Longswords, but the literature that came with the game was 
 ample to get me started in knowing what to build. And then the town map loaded. My frame rate took 
 a massive hit from what I am accustomed to playing at. The game requires an immense amount of system 
 resources and even with my 2 GB's of dual channel RAM and x1900, I still couldn't run the game 
 at full effects at a playable level on 1600x1200. However, once I turned off environmental shadows 
 performance went back to what it should be. The game was really quite involving from about an hour 
 into the game. The game had one of the most original plots I have seen. period. The way that the 
 plot twisted and grew was awesome. Up until the last third and the lack luster finale. The game 
 offered hard-core gamers such as myself excellent control of the battle field and I was impressed 
 if the NPC interactions. Then the pathfinding sort of crapped out and I spent a lot of time micromanaging, 
 which got annoying. Let me impress on the reader that the game was so dang fun that I learned the 
 dice mechanics to the Dungeons and Dragons v3.5 game system. I have gone 24 years of life having 
 avoided knowing exactly why anyone would want to keep a twenty sided die around, but now I know 
 the ins and outs of boosting armor class and multi-classing. The game was enthralling, the NPC's 
 were at times quite funny and most of them had excellent back stories. I may be just out of touch, 
 but the game is really unapproachable in terms of game mechanics if you don't take the time to 
 read about the dice system and saving throws and what not. Granted using a well establish game 
 mechanic ensures that the game and character development have depth, but it also makes it fairly 
 esoteric. The difficulty was pretty fair. I played through the game on the Hardcore setting and 
 found the game to be quite challenging in some parts but remarkably easy in others. I think a lot 
 of this probably had to do with my class but the challenge was generally rewarding if at times 
 remarkably challenging.
  
  Unfortunately, this game will stand as a sad reminder of what happens when distributors get to 
 call the shots and an unfinished game gets forced onto the shelf. Aside from the bugs which became 
 increasingly obvious towards the end of the game, it becomes overly apparent that there is quite 
 a bit of content that didn't make it in to the game because of what I can only assume are time 
 constraints. Lack of polish towards the end of a game doesn't matter as much in other genre's, 
 but in a paper and pencil based game story is EVERYTHING. Where the story lacks the game lacks, 
 and it is tragic to see the polish fade from the game during what should have been a dramatic and 
 climatic ending. This game would have garnered much higher acclaim from me had it gotten another 
 two or three months in the developers womb. The whole time I played through the game I kept thinking 
 how fun it would be to go through it with a new character or different alignment, but once I finished 
 I couldn't bring myself to do it. Maybe its because I need a life of my own, or maybe its 'cause 
 this game could have been so much more that it was. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vodka100
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 6, 2007 5:54 am PT
Review:  Ever since MMORPG's came out there has been a lack of quality non internet RPG available. Now I 
 come from the old school of SSI roleplaying games and unless youve played the Pool Of Radiance 
 series, you havent played the best non internet RPG's. On to this game.. NWN 2 is a very easy game 
 to beat. The game is done well, it is entertaining and the new D&amp; D rules are brought out nicely 
 in this game. This game is ALOT like Betryal At Krondor. You can chose how many people and which 
 classes to take with you on any quest. In NWN 2 you can chose how you want to play and still finish 
 the game. You can either use diplomacy or you can use the slaughter them all technique. If you 
 chose to talk your way through the game instead of killing everyone it will bring more of a challenge. 
 Dont expect this game to remind you of NWN 1. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meagar
Rating: 4.5
Date: Feb 4, 2007 10:41 pm PT
Review:  True to form, the makers of KOTOR2 are back with another of the most rushed, unsatisfying endings 
 of all time. Here's a spoiler: The dungeon collapses, and your whole party is never seen again. 
 Take that, I've spoiled the /entire/ ending for you. And you aren't given this depressing news 
 by a nice CG movie to match the intro cinematics. The ending is a sub-titled slide-show composed 
 of in-game screenshots run through a paintbrush filter in Photoshop. It is narrated in completely 
 monotone by a random person who (thankfully) does no other voice-work for the game. I honestly 
 suspect it was a member of the programming staff.
  
  I could say positive things about the rest of the game, but there is nothing there to defend the 
 terrible ending. Is the gameplay good? I think it must have been for me to play all the way through, 
 but all I really remember is the stunningly bad ending.
  
  I read a blog somewheres that said it right:
  
  Nothing like a game which demands 1GB of memory 
 and a $300 graphics card so it can read you some text at the end of a 50+ hour game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DBROWN9
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 4, 2007 1:39 pm PT
Review:  Playing the initial levels of NWN2 I thought it was going to turn out pretty good. From the start 
 it is clearly a hark back to the past of role playing games and whilst this is no bad thing the 
 game is slow and clumsy.
  
  Whilst the story is excellent with frequent cut screens &amp; dialogue screens taking you along 
 through the game, it is badly let down by poor graphics which are only a slight bit better than 
 the cartoonish World of Warcraft. To put it simply if you have played Oblivion or Guild Wars, give 
 this a miss.
  
  I dont know what this game was designed on but Obsidian need to invest in some new Hardware as 
 I suspect they are still using Pentium II machines with 128k of memory and geforce1 graphic cards.
 
  
  The controls are appalling - just like a console port, if not worse. Your character runs round 
 at 90 degree angles which is not only frustrating but sometimes it can take a minute or so just 
 to walk through a door.
  
  There are lots of invisible walls so the quests are move along through invisible corridors - there 
 isn't the do anything , go anywhere environment as with the likes of Oblivion.
  
  NPC's stand round doing nothing and attacking enemies often simply does not work
  
  The user 
 interface is blocky and clunky. There are a lack of good map markers, so you can often be confused 
 as to what to do next. This game requires tonnes of patience.
  
  The best thing about NWN2 is the sound which is excellent.
  
  I'm not saying this isn't a good 
 game, but is isn't worth the full price to buy an RPG which would have been cutting edge in 1995. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SixSigma1978
Rating: 5.2
Date: Feb 1, 2007 9:51 am PT
Review:  loading times!!!! LOADING TIMES!! SO MANY LOADS!!! ARRRGHHHHHH!!!!!
  I almost tore out my hair in frustration..
  
  For a game graphically so mundane.. there are 
 a **** load of loads and more loads.. fer gawds sakes... a small ****y HOUSE with TWO levels requires 
 two loads...
  
  HELLOW.. OBLIVION ANYONE????
  That game was so pretty and the quick save was just that!! FLASH!!! the game was saved.. the Quick 
 Save in NWN2 is a JOKE!!! And the graphics seem so dated.... definitely improved over nwn 1 but 
 hey.. thats expected isnt it?????
  
  (I HAVE a core duo2... you can imagine how sucky this is) .
  
  Let me recap... out of the inn 
 LOAD for about 10 seconds... move about 1/100000th of an obisdian city.. Boundary... PACMAN had a 
 larger world.. LOAD 10 seconds... ooops forgot to take my partner... go back to the inn.. LOAD 10 seconds.. come 
 back out .. LOAD 10 seconds.. go back to the world map.. LOAD 10 seconds....
  
  what the @#$@#$ is the load time for?? the world is so puny.. most of the houses are decos...90% 
 of the game is text character.. not vocal speech like Oblivion... water looks like tiles of chess 
 board... sky effects are laughable..
  
  SToryline and in game characters saved this game.. The chemistry works and it looks like the writers 
 got the epic concept just right..
  
  everything else is ARGHHH!!!!!!
  Again I must write, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xkapilx
Rating: 7.1
Date: Feb 1, 2007 9:15 am PT
Review:  To play this game you need to have a fair idea about D&amp; D and all the gimmicks that it offers 
 otherwise the gameplay is quite tough. If it were just casting some spells, picking up some weapons 
 and hacking a monster or two then it would be somewhat ok, but with all those level ups each associated 
 with a number of player characteristics and alignments makes it difficult to really enjoy the game 
 for fun. Frankly, I love simple games without too much fuss and this was a wrong choice for me. 
 Maybe for die hard D&amp; D fans, it would be a piece of cake. Another irritating thing was the 
 extremely power hungry graphics requirements. I had to really tone down below my recommended settings 
 to really get a smooth gameplay.
  
  Finally, for someone who isnt much familiar with the D&amp; D world, the gaming manual offers zilch! 
 I thought maybe the gaming forums would offer some respite but frankly its infested with hardcore 
 D&amp; D freaks and even their thread on 'Introduction for Beginners' was really too much to comprehend.
 
  
  However it isnt that bad. I recommend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sexpodian123
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 31, 2007 10:20 am PT
Review:  The game itself is great. It allows you to fully customize your character and explore this massive 
 world with ease. I thought that for my system it would run a bit faster but it dosen't. Seems to 
 be just a bit laggy and the graphics don't look as amazing as say Oblivion. The patches for this 
 game are what really frustrate me. I had to reinstall my game because of a screwed up patch. On 
 the other hand the fighting and magic are second to none very interesting how the DandD rules play 
 out. The sound is fairly good but you may have to play around with hardware-software configs. What 
 really got me is the story which is incredible and it really imerses your character just like baldurs 
 gate2. Great game overlall but they need a fix it all patch to attract other buyers. TOOOOOOOOOOOOO 
 many problems. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bloody_molto
Rating: 2.7
Date: Jan 28, 2007 8:56 pm PT
Review:  its trap realy at least to me
  any one played game like elder scroll Iv
  trust me dont get it for example: i love fable but now i cant play this game any more cuz i played 
 game like elder scrolls and i cant go back ,its just like when u play ps3 u cant go back to ps1 
 but its up to u i think atari is going down and the games too realy where are the good games im 
 now ply 3 or 4 games in a year (max)
  sooooooooooo saaaaaaaaaaaaaaaad no new ideas no new any thing just very old school to make this 
 game in this time 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nightvamp5
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 25, 2007 5:58 am PT
Review:  Creating a sequel to arguably one of the best RPGs ever is no easy task, but was one I felt confident 
 Obisidan could do. After Knights of the Old Republic 2 and having old members of Black Isles who 
 helped make epic games like Fallout 1 and 2, Baludurs Gate, Planescape Torment... I felt there 
 was no way they could fail, and they didn't, for the most part.
  Much like the first, NWN2 has a incredible sound track, a compelling plot and a toolset that is 
 a hard-core role-players dream. They even added in sub-races and additional classes, expanding 
 the already huge level of customization. The graphics were improved too.
  However, amidst the plot that sends you on a roller coaster of twists, turns, gut wrenching drama 
 and action, amidst the improved visuals, toolset and customization, they missed a few important 
 things.
  For one, the game is far too linier. You do get a few small choices in the game, but they all end 
 up taking you to the same road. Some dialogue changes, some NPCs react differently, but the overall 
 plot is the same. The story is quite compelling, if you are a good character, but as evil, you 
 are far too limited.
  Some of said the game lacked the engine to effectively support the random killer. This is true, 
 but that is not my complaint. Every game by Obsidian or Black Isles I have played has given me 
 the opportunity to reflect my idea of a scheming villain, except this game. I was no more than 
 a bad guy trapped in a story, serving good in an evil way. The most vile thing I could do all game 
 was kill cruel men while serving good. Evil acting on the behalf of good is not my idea of an exciting 
 evil character.
  The bugs in the game are also devastating. Do not under and circumstance keep only one save. It 
 will end you. I've played through this game three times and have encountered at least seven save 
 ending bugs.
  Despite these rather large failings, I still count it amongst the better games of this year if 
 for no other reason that my first good character was one of the most memorable gaming experiences 
 I've had in a long time. The replay through evil was just a huge letdown.
  In the end, this is a great game with a lot to offer, but don't count on being a sinner in the 
 game. It is only a worthwhile game if you play the saint. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andeh141
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 23, 2007 1:47 pm PT
Review:  I got Never Winter Nights 2 expecting something special, after seeing reviews and previews i was 
 expecting something more than a normal RPG. However this game was not what i expected, and frankly 
 not my cup of tea.
  
  As i am not a RPG fan i can't really review the game play, but i will give my two cents on other 
 aspects of the game.
  
  Pro's
  Easy install, fantastic game update system.
  Good interface.
  Graphics seemed to be up to scratch.
  Sounds effects seem good.
  Easy game 
 play.
  Seems to be allot of game play hours.
  
  Con's
  Camera angle is annoying.
  Character movement is hard to get use to, seems to have delay of direction.
  
  I think this 
 game would suit anyone who's a real RPG Fan :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slugman
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 23, 2007 7:02 am PT
Review:  I have just finished NWN2, and I must say, the story is actually decent.
  
  Graphics could use a little polishing. Dwarves look good from the waist up, but from the waist 
 down, they really look silly especially without a cape. while there arent a lot of choices really 
 for face and body type, which i really think should be prevalant in these type of games. The lack 
 of, just takes away from the roleplay part of the game for me, i like to roleplay really fat people.
 
  
  I personally think though there are a lot of different problems with terrain and objects placed 
 in the world, and though they really do add to the atmosphere in the game, the objects are more 
 cumbersome to walk around then they are actually worth,
  
  A table with chairs can be very frustrating to walk around when not clicking on the ground. I get 
 tired of getting stuck behind a chair, while trying to go through a door, just to run past the 
 door, and turn around and find im not in line again because i cant see my character, and get stuck 
 on another chair, or zoom right past the door again. Also, general clipping problems with the smallest 
 of hills outdoors (cant walk off a very small hillside) causes me to cringe every time i come across 
 one.
  
  That is just about all i have for negative feedback on the game. On the positive now.
  
  Story 
 is VERY entertaining. I think they did a fantastic job with making sure there is something for 
 everyone, from people that like city dwelling experiences, to people that like cave diving. There 
 is plenty of slashing combat, with surprise spawned mobs, and some minor puzzle solving. All these 
 have to do with the story. You arent just walking around in the woods for no reason, you have a 
 purpose for being there. Which for me, makes the entire game appealing. I can't stand walking around 
 and killing things for no reason, it gets boring for me, and makes the entire experience a bland 
 ordeal.
  
  Sounds are another well done part of the game. While there really arent a lot of things out of 
 the ordinary here, everything from the footfall sounds from grass, to cobble walkways transition 
 nicely. Voice acting is actually pretty good, some of the best i have seen. Weapons clanging against 
 weapons, and flesh, are about as good as they are going to be for a while, at least, on my system 
 i guess.
  
  Gameplay is ok, it is probably the best engine for this type of game for now at least. The choices 
 you can ACTUALLY make will create different outcomes, and different problems. Point and click is 
 mediocre at best in this game, a lot of times your friendly NPCs will get in the way of someone 
 you're trying to target, which can be annoying.
  
  Length of game is fine, took me about a week to complete ( i start over A LOT) . I hope an expansion 
 will come out soon.
  
  I give it an 8.4 room for improvement in all aspects. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: venturec
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jan 21, 2007 10:54 pm PT
Review:  Most of the challenges you will face in the game will have nothing to do with any skill or lack 
 of skill in playing this video game. The challenges that come about are due to poor design and 
 poor implementation.
  
  First, what is good about the game: The role playing, the abilitiy to interact with other characters.
 
  Storyline is solid and keeps your attention.
  The number and types of enemies out there.
  The number of spells that can be cast.
  An infinite way to develop your character, whether you 
 want to focus on only one class or multi-class. You can mold your character to be almost anything. 
 However, the drawback is if you focus on too many things, you will be unprepared for future fights 
 and attacks.
  
  What is bad about the game:
  Major problems and frustrations - There are several difficult fights that break out, but the designers 
 of the game do not allow you to set up your characters for a successful outcome. Even if you do, 
 the game decides for you that those positions were not good, and that all of your important members 
 be placed around you, surrounded by enemies where they can be destroyed quickly. For example, on 
 Mt. Galadrym, when entering gateway to speak with the King Fire Giant, I set up my characters to 
 stay behind (Stand Your Ground) , and then went up to the King. As soon as the main dialogue started, 
 all of my characters were yanked from their position by the game, and were set beside me, surrounded 
 by giants, and getting trounced as soon as the fight broke out. I then had to pause the game, and 
 reposition all of my characters, and attempt to recover from any damage, which I did and won, but 
 is still frustrating.
  
  The reason this is frustrating is that I have played many other games where I battled many difficult 
 enemies. All other games let me position my party members in various ways, and they stayed there, 
 and did what they were supposed to.
  
  This type of action is seen again after speaking with Nolaloth in Nolaloth's Valley. In thinking 
 ahead, I planted my party members up away from potential danger and then attacked Nolaloth's heart. 
 As soon as I did this, all of my party members were instantaneously around me, then two black dragons 
 appeared, blew fire at the group, and we all were charred. Game over.
  
  Another example is when fighting Black Garius at Crossroad Keep. The game can't seem to understand 
 that I don't want my best Wizards and spell casters put on the front line where they can be immediately 
 destroyed. (This is especially the case with Ammon Jerro and Zhjaeve, when they need to read the 
 true names from the scroll) . But again, it goes ahead and postions my characters for me without 
 asking me first.
  
  Some minor frustrations you might run into:
  No Hot Keys (that I am aware of) to initiate Broadcast Commands or Special Abilities. It would 
 have been nice if these hot keys were available. Some of the ones I would like to have available 
 are the common ones like Knockdown and Improved Knockdown. If anyone knows of hot keys available, 
 let me know.
  
  Broadcast Command frustration: Stand Your Ground seems to be stand your ground and get whacked 
 by the enemy until you are dead, and don't pay any attention to the swords hitting you. In other 
 games, Stand Your Ground means protect your position. Not to the producers of NWN2 though.
  
  No Fall Back broadcast command. The only thing that comes close is Follow Me. And this sometimes 
 works, but a lot of times doesn't. The characters get stuck fighting the enemy while you are running 
 away. You turn around and all of your party members are getting thrashed. Can't organize companions 
 in a sub group by skill set or class. Using the broadcast command is an all or nothing approach, 
 which is too bad. For instance, you can't combine your wizards together and have them focus on 
 casting certain spells, while you select your fighter sub group and have them go out and meet the 
 enemy in the field. This is very apparent when you have archers in your group. Archers seem to 
 want to run up next to the enemy before firing off their bolts or arrows. Can't broadcast to have 
 your party members attack only a select enemy. It would be nice to able to right click and enemy 
 and have a selection that refocuses your party members to attack only that enemy for the time being.
 
  
  If your character gets Charmed or Confuses, you are not able to deal with it, meaning you can't 
 attack anyone in your own party, even if they are hammering on one of your important spell casters. 
 This happens to Khelgar every once in a while. He gets Charmed or Confused and starts hammering 
 on my wizards, and there is nothing I can do about it.
  
  So, in conclusion, the storyline is great. The interaction with the characters is also fantastic. 
 If you do buy this game, be prepared to have a lot of patience because you will be pausing, saving, 
 and reloading the same scenes again and again. It is not the fault of the player, just overall 
 bad design and poor implementation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gibbie99
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 21, 2007 11:24 am PT
Review:  This is the successor to Balder's Gate 2, possibly the best RPG ever made. Neverwinter Nights 2 
 deals with events around the City of Neverwinter in Faeurn, in the Forgotten Realms world from 
 Dungeons and Dragons. First, this game is very faithful to the 3.5 Edition. If you know that from 
 paper and pencil D&amp; D, then you'll feel right at home. There are a few differences, mostly in 
 the skills, but nothing major. Gameplay: Fantastic, good mix of hack &amp; slash and storyline 
 development. The game takes a while to get into, but it will definately hook you. When i first 
 played the game, I played it for 3 days continuously, until I developed back &amp; wrist pains. 
 That said, its a bit too much hack and slash, and it tends to be easy. Hint, increase the 'difficulty' 
 slider to hardcore rules. It just makes the rules more even between you and the enemy. The normal 
 option is ridiculously easy. Characters: While you can now have up to 5 people in your party (as 
 opposed to the first NWN, you can't control the development of these characters, you are strictly 
 limited to your character. Also, inevitably, you'll need a main character with alot of skill points 
 and intelligence, to get decent options in dialogs. The NPCs you find are all very colorful, and 
 some have external quests. It would be nice if all had external quests; I feel the amount of side-quests 
 is very small. You have a wide range of 3rd edition characters, a dozen or so main classes (including 
 the Warlock class) , and about another dozen prestige classes, with two classes unique to the game 
 and unlocked during the main quest. Final note, plan your character closely. You'll get to about 
 level 18 by the end of the game. I played a fighter/thief, which is perhaps the best option for 
 the main character. However, an optimal character isn't really required, since the combat is so 
 easy.... Also, the character AI, while good, isn't perfect. Often a character will just sit there 
 and not move with your party (bug?) . Other times, during combat, your spellcasters will bomb the 
 area with area-impact spells (ends up damaging you on hard-core) . Further, the easy rest option 
 makes the priest classes superfluous. Graphics. Great. Occasionally there are issues with character 
 movement, and often when you step out of a building, you can't see anything due to the camera (they 
 should stick your party a bit further outside the building to solve this issue) . However, the game 
 is very linear in environmental areas; no tromping off to explore the area like in Elder Scrolls. 
 This actually speeds up the game tremendously, which is a blessing (no more waiting 10' to cross 
 an area) . Sound: Very nice soundtrack, doesn't get tiring after 50+ hours of play. Many of the 
 important conversations are voiced over, giving you a real theatric feel to the game. This was 
 a very nice effort on the half of Obsidian. Recap: This is an excellent game, and hopefully alot 
 of mods and expansion packs will come out to do the game justice. There are already built-in epic 
 feats, so its just a matter of time to get a mod for epic characters. The main campaign is very 
 long and has replayability, due to the binary choices you must make during the campaign. Although 
 the game suffers from a few graphics gliches, and steap system requirements, any RPG fan worth 
 his/her salt would easily overlook these issues. Go out and get NWN2 today! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: narva
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 20, 2007 12:04 pm PT
Review:  A solid game that leaves you wishing for more. I would definitely recommend this game for fans 
 of this genre. Especially enjoyable is the interaction with some of the more interesting characters 
 you pick up during your journey. The Stronghold part is maybe the highlight in my opinion in the 
 game. With that being said the game could really use some more depth to it. I also feel like a 
 max party of 4 is not sufficient. A 6 party group would open up spots for more characters instead 
 of always going with the standard four Warrior, mage, healer &amp; rogue, especially since you 
 want to progress the storyline with a particular character. What I also where missing is a more 
 open world, the game play feelt very linear at times.
  
  Still a solid game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lauri14
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 24, 2007 8:23 am PT
Review:  First off, all of you low end PC owners be warned, I've tested this thing on a PC with Radeon 9550 
 and 3 Ghz , on a PC with 7600GT and Dual Core and on a PC with AMD3200+ and Radeon X800, with a 
 low end PC it's playable, but will look really ugly if you turn settings like mip-map and texture 
 filtering down. With a high end PC there are no problems, everything runs at the highest quality 
 with good fps. By the way, even with the highest settings, don't expect this game to look overly 
 good.
  
  +Great story, the main thing that keeps you up until 5 AM, even if you have school or work at 8 
 AM.
  +Voice acting and music are excellent.
  +Combat is easy to plan, thanks to frequent pausing, spell effects are really awesome, in the endgame, 
 when you have meteor showers and such, it'll be really flashy.
  +Dungeons &amp; Dragons rules of course.
  +Well written dialogue, many choices. It's hard to 
 purely good or purely evil.
  +Excellent toolset to create your own content. An allpowerful longsword to complete the game really 
 easily on the second time comes to mind...
  
  -One of the first things that frustrates you in this game, the camera, it will take time for you 
 to find a good setting for yourself, you may not find it at all, I made do with driving camera 
 and zoom all the way out. You constantly need to adjust the camera, to be able to see what you 
 want.
  -Graphics, even with good hardware it doesn't look as good as it should.
  -AI problems, you'll start noticing how Khelgar Ironfist just sits and does nothing while you take 
 a beating, especially frustrating with casters.
  
  -Lots of loading.
  
  Character creation is very well made and allows you to customize almost everything about your character. 
 Race, subrace, hair, facial hair, voice, skills, attributes, deity.
  The beginning of the game may frighten you, it sure did frighten me, you begin in your stepfathers 
 house and when you go out you'll see an extremely sunny day and an extremely happy and colorful 
 fair taking place, winning the High Harvest Fair contest is a tutourial, that you can skip alltogether. 
 The village is attacked in the night and you will have to save the world, you'll also find out 
 that you're special later.
  The leveling is slow, as you can expect from Neverwinter, you get experience from kills and quests, 
 after about 50 hours of gameplay you will reach level 20.
  The NPCs in your party are pretty deep and it's nice to find out about their past, the influence 
 system reminds me of KOTOR2.
  You will find tons of loot during the game and whats so good about it is, that you can use the 
 money you get to build your own fortress..... millions of gold just sitting there in your inventory, 
 not in this game.
  The toolset is similar to that of NWN1, easy to use, everyone can create their own adventures.
 
  
  Get over the camera problem and You'll love this game.
  
  And I'll be sure to edit this thing for the better later... comments would be nice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deeplydippy78
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 16, 2007 8:31 pm PT
Review:  Been playing it for about 17 hours now. AI is a bit stupid at times. A few technical issues. But 
 if you can look past that and play it, it has a story that really draws you in. More than that, 
 it's a true RPG that makes you make decisions that really affect game play. Gold is hard to come 
 by. So it will take a while before you can get some good equipment. Although you will pick up some 
 awesome stuff on some of your initial missions. Your companions are pretty interesting too and 
 you'll often have to solve arguments between them. The missions are pretty linear and not open 
 ended like in Oblivion (which I should say I got bored off very soon, in spite the great graphics) . 
 Check out the demo before buying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Landar
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 4, 2008 11:38 pm PT
Review:  Reviewer's System:
  
  AMD 64x Dual Core 4200
  ASUS Nvidia 7900 GTX
  2 GB DDR2
  ASUS Crosshair Main Board
  
  NOTE: this review is based on the 1.04 BETA version and only Single 
 Player has been played
  
  I am an RPGer. I'll play any rpg I can get my hands on, hoping somwhere I'll find my next Fallout 
 or Baldur's Gate. It usually doesn't turn out that well, and I find myself trying to like some 
 of the games out there just because I can't seem to find anything better.
  
  With that said, after the original Neverwinter Nights (NWN from here on after) there were very 
 few D&D (Dungeons & Dragons) based games that really managed to translate the intricate world of 
 Faerun (this particular games' setting) into a PC. Temple of Elemental Evil was released in a rushed 
 and unfinished state, and if it weren't for an extremely loyal and dedicated community, the game 
 would have been forgotten and collecting shelf dust just a couple of weeks after release (there 
 are now several fan made patches that have fixed many of the broken features included in the original 
 version) . So, after a very long wait comes the newest effort by BioWare/Obsidian. These guys have 
 been making D&D RPG's for a while now, and certainly know what they're doing.
  
  I should state that while I have read horrible reviews for NWN2, I believe they are mostly based 
 on performance issues, so I wholeheartedly recommend that if you do not have a system that well 
 surpasses the recommended setup, you should hold off trying this game out until you can experience 
 it the way the developers envisioned it. I personally have not run into any such issues, and run 
 the game at the highest settings with full anti-aliaising and anisotropic filtering, and it looks 
 superb. My expectations were high though, as I admire the work the companies behind the franchise 
 produce, and for the first time in recent memory, my expectations were not only met, but in many 
 ways surpassed. As it is common fare for RPG's of this nature, you begin the game by selecting 
 a race, a class (read= profession) , a name, and several other details that when added up, will 
 produce the alter ego that will represent you in the world. The Character creation system is very 
 well implemented in NWN2, making use of the D&D 3.5 ruleset, and while I would have liked a couple 
 of more superficial options such as more varied looks and voice sets, what is there is more than 
 acceptable and offers just enough variety for you to create the character you want. Ten minutes 
 after creating a lawful good fighter, I experienced my first of many great moments with NWN2. After 
 a brief conversation with your foster father you are tasked with competing in the town fair. As 
 soon as I was outside my home, I completely lost myself to the beautiful visuals, that combined 
 with some great medieval tunes and some excellent ambient audio, created a mood and atmosphere 
 I haven't experienced since the sorely missed days of Infinity Engine games (Baldur's Gate and 
 Planescape Torment to name a few) . I found that this competition actually works as a tutorial that 
 expertly sets the mood and groundwork for a truly epic stroy that unfolds through roughly 50 to 
 70 hours of joyful gaming, depending on your playing style. Without spoiling the fun, I'll go on 
 the record and state that while far from being the best ever, the storyline in NWN2 is among the 
 elite of the genre. Even while the game's structure is very linear, the pacing is spot on, and 
 the countless events you'll experience will at times fill you with that sort of addictive bliss 
 that only RPG's deliver. In short, the tale will take you through a very long quest rife with adventure, 
 combat , interaction, and just plain roleplaying fun. As stated, the game is structerd in a very 
 linear way. In an almost formulaic equation, your character will talk to non playable characters 
 (NPC's) , recieve a quest, get a new area on your world map, and begin your journey to that destination 
 while fighting enemies along the way. Later you will return with an item or piece of information 
 that will allow you to continue the main quest and so on and so forth. While it may sound a tad 
 boring, the true genius behind NWN2 comes in the form of character interaction between you, NPC's, 
 and a host of other adventurers that will join you in your quest at your discretion. There are 
 so many conversational options (that are usually relevant to your social skills, race, alignmenmt 
 and other variables) to engage in with the characters that populate the world, that you'll soon 
 come to appreciate the fact that you can spend more time learning about your companion's motivations 
 and the world itself, rather than pointlessly walking from one dungeon to the next. This I believe 
 is what roleplaying should be about, allowing you to react to the situations that unfold in the 
 way that is most relevant to your character's traits. You can of course ignore a lot of the dialogue 
 and skip right into the fight, adding even more options for how to deal with the events the game 
 provides for you. In short, the game can truly be approached in a way that makes sense for your 
 character and you will feel that your responses not only shape your character's personality, but 
 also affect the way in which the game's inhabitants interact with you. It's worth mentioning that 
 the voice acting is excellent, and more often than not, the actors' deliveries accurately convey 
 the feelings NPC's are expressing. So, the story is fantastic, the visuals (on my system) superb, 
 the audio and voice acting well superior to most other games on the market. So is there anything 
 wrong with this game? I hear you ask. The answer is... it depends on what you're looking for. Levels 
 are small. Beautiful, but small. Loading times are long and frequent, and combat while at times 
 visually dazzling, could use more animations to break up the monotony. The user interface while 
 versatile in that you can move windows around as much as you wish, still clogs the view and at 
 times becomes intrusive. Another major gripe is the camera, but I have configured it in a way that's 
 right for me and actually works great now that I've become used to it. All these things added up 
 did not detract from my experience with the game. I managed to direct my attention towards the 
 game's strengths and to an extent, forgot about the mentioned imperfections. Furthermore, Obsidian 
 has done a commendable job in listening to their community and are diligently patching aspects 
 of the game as I write this review. Is Neverwinter Nights 2 the right game for you? If you have 
 a powerful computer, and can deal with a few rough spots here and there, and enjoy interacting 
 with characters in a virtual world through an intricate and well told narrative, then by all means 
 grab a copy right now. If on the other hand, your taste gears more toward open ended RPG's or action 
 RPG's for that matter, there are many other games out there that will quench your thirst for adventure 
 and provide you with a hassle free experience more attuned to your taste. In this reviewer's opinion, 
 Neverwinter Nights 2 is a breath of fresh air that carries a slight taste of nostalgia. It is a 
 game that brings back memories of past classics and retains the elements that made me fall in love 
 with the genre in the first place. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ak47jedi
Rating: 3.8
Date: Jan 15, 2007 1:57 pm PT
Review:  I loved NWN1. I love DnD. I hate this game.
  
  There are just too many performance issues to even remotely think of suggesting someone purchase 
 this product. Absolutely pitiful...
  
  Don't take my word for it, check out the numerous forums and message boards.
  
  I wanted to 
 like this game so much but in my 20+ years of gaming, this is the biggest dissappointment I can 
 think of. I bought two copies on release date and I've done everything short of re-installing XP 
 to get it to run above 10 frames per second. My Alienware runs F. E. A. R., Company of Heroes and 
 Oblivion with all graphic settings maxed out. I can't get this game to run even close to playable 
 with everything set to minimum.
  
  Buy this game and you'll regret it. 'Nuff said. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sircalmar
Rating: 4.6
Date: Jan 14, 2007 7:13 pm PT
Review:  For those that like a good rpg, a telling story and a fun gameplay experience, few games gave us 
 that in the recent years like the original NWN by the gaming gods at Bioware. When I first heard 
 the NWN2 was going to be released, I was extremely excited, and read every little bit of info about 
 the game that I could. I wasn't even turned off by the fact the Obsidian was the one doing the 
 sequel. After all, while it wasn't as amazing as SWKOTOR, KOTOR2 was still a solid game with a 
 pretty good story (just don't talk to me about the ending) .
  
  So a few weeks after NWN2 came out, I picked it up, and eagerly loaded it into my top-end gaming 
 pc (well above and beyond the reqs for the game) . The autopatcher seemed to work fine and I prepared 
 to lose a few weeks into the City of Neverwinter again. And halfway through the tutorial level, 
 I am kicked out of the game.
  
  No problem, I repeat the process again, and am kicked out this time several hours later as I chase 
 Orcs through the mountains. The game freezes here and there, and performance is horrible. So I 
 do the first thing that I think of and uninstall the game, ensure my drivers are up to date and 
 reinstall. The autoupdater works again, and I send it looking for another patch and uho... we have 
 a problem, it is unable to find it and aborts. Searching the Bioware and Atari support boards hasn't 
 found a solution, and only many other angry gamers with similar problems and complains.
  
  So I try to play the game again, and this time I actually make it into NeverWinter, and am enjoying 
 the game between freezes, drops and hangups. But finally, I can take no more... I left NWN2 well 
 before the end of act 2, and am probably going to take it to EB games and hope they will take it 
 as a trade in.
  
  Gameplay - From what little I could play, good. However the game was so buggy, it was incompletable 
 for me. I tried being patient and looking for help, but at this point it has been 3 weeks since 
 a series of emails to both Obsidian and Atari and have gotten nothing more then the autoresponse 
 that says they will assist me as soon as possible.
  
  Graphics - This style rpg was not expected to be beautiful, but when I wasn't fighting the buggy 
 camera, they weren't bad. Of course half the time I couldn't find my people due the the angles 
 and couldn't select the environmental items and enemies because they weren't in sight or overlapping 
 other things.
  
  Sound - Not bad, but nothing exceptional.
  
  Value - I hate to say it, but do NOT pick up this game until Obsidian/Atari mentions fixing it 
 on the BB's at those sites and the players there seem satisfied... right now the game is near incompletable 
 by anyone who does not have unlimited patience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ADPJFC
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 15, 2007 12:36 am PT
Review:  Finally another game that's got me hooked on... It's been quite a while since any game has been 
 able to keep me playing. This game reminds me of KotOR I and II in that it actually kept me going 
 till the end. I've played The Elder Scrolls: Oblivion and a couple others, but none were able to 
 get me interested and keep me going. Oblivion had overwhelming scenery (too overwhelming most of 
 the time) but weak storyline, weak gameplay, a disasterous hand-to-hand combat system, ugly and 
 old looking people and a disgusting interface. I played it for around 2 hours before I got sick 
 of the interface, the storyline and how long it took for things to happen. The whole system was 
 quite over-complicated.
  But when I started Neverwinter Nights 2, I felt like I'd finally found the right game. It's got 
 a good storyline, good gameplay, a nice KotOR (Knights of the Old Republic (must have RPG) ) style 
 combat system, not to mention good graphics and a nice interface. The action/adventure part of 
 the game also starts almost right away (after the tutorial) and continues, unlike Oblivion which 
 gets really slow after the first dungeon part and the first gate. The only thing that was a bit 
 off was the camera control system, though it offers four modes, none of the modes are quite what 
 I'm looking for and the mouse buttons for controlling the camera are somewhat out of place. I would 
 prefer the KotOR style camera which allows rotation with the right mouse button amongst other things. 
 Unfortunately, its not easy to change the control configuration either.
  The loading times for levels is mere milliseconds to a second, most of the times I barely see the 
 loading screen, not to mention saving the game which also happens so fast that it's no trouble 
 at all saving constantly, though due to the lack of a quicksave, it takes a couple of clicks.
 
  In terms of performance, I dont notice any lag whatsoever and everything is nice and streamlined.
 
  A nice touch is the fact that during cutscenes it displays both the current line of speech at 
 the bottom, and the last line of speech at the top of the screen so you can quickly look back to 
 read something if you missed it or forgot. Quests and all are saved in a journal, and speech is 
 recoreded in a little chat box so you can check back and see whats been said (useful if you've 
 forgotten a certain detail that someone told you)
  
  I havent installed any of the patches as of yet, but I came across a simple bug at nearly the beginning 
 of the game, due to the tutorial screen. Other than that it's been working fine.
  
  If you take the time to notice, Neverwinter Nights 1 was by BioWare, whereas this one is by Obsidian, 
 which is basically comparable to KotOR I being made by BioWare and the follow-up (KotOR II) being 
 developed by Obsidian. Those who've played KotOR II might consider this to be a bad omen, but in 
 truth Obsidian have done a good job of following up NWN 1.
  
  In short this is a great RPG game, worth the money and time. It doesnt lag like crazy like Oblivion 
 does, and the game basically gets you adiccted very quickly. The only complaint I have is the camera/targeting 
 system, which hopefully will be fixed in a patch (i. e. allowing binding and modifying the way the 
 camera works) .
  If you've been waiting ever since KotOR I/II or NWN 1 for a good RPG game worth playing, this is 
 definitely the one.
  
  Note: I would recommend that you ignore the people who've complained of lag even though they claim 
 they meet/exceed the requirements. Waiting time in this game is near zero. Sound: 9/10
  The music is amazing and the sound effects are quite realistic. You can pick the voice of your 
 character from a long list of voices, which is pretty interesting. The surround effects and support 
 for EAX 3.0 also improve the audio and provide for a good deal of realistic sounds effects. The 
 only drawback is that you might hear some of the background voices repeating the same line multiple 
 times.
  
  Value: 9/10
  Great value as the game immerses you in its story and the story length is just right (hence not 
 boring you to death with a long never-ending story (Oblivion) , and not ending so soon that you 
 didnt really get what happened) . Totally worth the price. Oh and dont forget the online play, which 
 makes it even more fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mitjazagar
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 14, 2007 2:46 am PT
Review:  Neverwinter nights 2 is a exelent game not just because of the graphics but also for good storyline 
 and gameplay. Replay value is huge with many races, classes and prestige classes. Graphics are 
 really beautiful and work very good and a med-high end PC. DON'T CALL NEVERWINTER A BAD GAME BECAUSE 
 YOU DON'T HAVE A GOOD ENOUGH COMPUTER TO RUN IT!!!!!! IT IS YOUR PROBLEM IF YOU HAVE A X1600 PRO 
 OR 6600 GT AND YOU CAN RUN IT!! 7600 GT is enough to run it smoothly. Sound is nice and a lot of 
 it copied from the original neverwinter. The music is also good especially on character creation 
 screen :D. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rosiesbar1
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jan 14, 2007 12:58 am PT
Review:  Reading the other positive reviews here is hype. The controls are more frustration then the game 
 is enjoyable. The AI sticks and tactics are shot because of it. The games graphics are attractive 
 but minimal for the hardware required. Numerous bugs presented themselves in the first chapter 
 alone.
  
  I waited to play to this game to allow for a few patches (1.03) that would hopefully remedy a lot 
 of the problems in this game but that has not happened yet. This game has a lot of promise but 
 until they get the AI and controls worked out then I don't see loading it up again worth my time 
 or hard drive space.
  
  This is not a hack and slash, which is nice for a change, but this is also a sloppy game. If youre 
 looking to play this game then I would wait for patch 1.06 or greater if at all.
  
  Good luck. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpaceAlex
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 13, 2007 5:18 am PT
Review:  I see many people giving this game bad score, and saying it's **** which would imply that they 
 simply don't like D&amp; D, or were expecting this game to be exacly like NWN1 (no storyline, uncontrollable 
 companions...) .
  
  This is not your standard hack&amp; slash RPG, which are getting very popular these days (Oblivion) . 
 It is based on the Dungeons&amp; Dragons ruleset, and is quite similar to those great old games 
 like Planetscape, Baldur's Gate, Icewind Dale and others. If you were expecting a modern-like RPG 
 (hack&amp; slash) you will be disappointed with this game. If you're an old school RPG player like 
 myself, who likes a good story, controllable companions with good backstories (something that NWN1 
 lacked) and D&amp; D ruleset you will appreciate what this game has to offer. It's true that it 
 is more similar to Baldur's Gate than NWN1, but that is not necessary a bad thing. I personally 
 thought NWN1 not worthy of my time... thankfully the expansions fixed that, but i still missed 
 the Baldur's Gate-like companions. I've red some reviews here, implying that the game is too linear, 
 and one even went that far to say that this is not really a RPG, but an advanture game, which is 
 so not true. It's as liner as any other RPG that plenty of people consider great (KOTOR, Jade Empire, 
 BG...) As for Oblivion, i consider it to be more linear than NWN2... it's true that you have a 
 big open world to explore, and can take on quests in any order you want, but the problem with these 
 quests is that there is only one way to solve them (it doesn't matter whether you're evil or good, 
 you will only get once choice) . I think there was one quest in the entire game that presented you 
 with more than one choice. Mosts quests in NWN2 though can be solved according to your alligment 
 (a chaotic character will not care for the law and will gladly take bribes, or anything to aid 
 himself and his allies, while an lawful character will do anything to uphold the law) , so there's 
 plenty of ways to solve a quest. Even the main quest can be solved in pletny of different ways, 
 even if all roads do lead to the same target. For example, you have to find a wizard to help you 
 with a matter, but you cannot get to him, because he lives in a district that is closed to civilans. 
 Now, you are presented with two choices. You can either join the city watch or the town's thives 
 guild to get to your goal. The City Watch gives you different quests to solve to prove your loyalty 
 than the thives guild does. Whether you join TG ot CW has an impact on the trial, city securtiy, 
 what NPC's you will meet throughout the game and some other stuff . So if you were playing a good 
 character in your first playthrough, and decide to play as an evil character in your second playthough, 
 you will get a totaly different experiance. How can anyone even say that's not role-playing? Because 
 if that isn't, then i don't know what it is. But enough about this...
  
  Gameplay: Camera controls take some time to get used to, but once you get a hold of it, it's like 
 a second nature. The difficlutly in this game is just right, although experianced D&amp; D players 
 will want to set the difficulty to hardcore. The AI could use some work, but i'm not really disappointed 
 with it. I don't remember a single D&amp; D RPG having a good AI, so that can be forgiven. Graphic: 
 if you have a high-end computer (i have 8800 GTX, dual core cpu, 2gb ram) , the game will look absolutley 
 stunning, with a minimal perofmace hit. If not, you will have turn off at least shadows, which 
 are sadly the best looking thing in the game. Overall, i think they could do a better job on optimizing 
 the engine for lower-end computers. Sound: Great, although i wish they wouldn't recycle some sounds 
 from NWN1. The voice acting is mostly great, although some NPC's can sound a bit amateurish. But 
 overall, much better than in most games. Value: It takes 60+ hours to finish the main campaign, 
 but you will want to play through it at least once more, there's multiplayer, and a toolset to 
 make your own campaign, or anything you want. I say that's a pretty good value. Tilt: What can 
 i say... i love D&amp; D RPG's with great storylines and interesting companions, so this game scores 
 high in my book. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phantomstrider
Rating: 4
Date: Jan 17, 2007 4:18 pm PT
Review:  How could this game have possibly been so ridiculously overrated by all the official reviewers.. 
 Its terrible compared to the original and its taken 4 patches to get it relatively playable on 
 modern systems without running like a slide show during battles and they *still* have a clumsy 
 system that makes playing more frusterating than fun.
  
  Graphics: 4/10
  The graphics are notably average for today's gaming standards. On top of this, even a modern system 
 will lag considerably despite the average graphics. Quicksaves can take up to 3 minutes (and you'll 
 want to quicksave alot) . Changing areas often means completely unpacking and packing a new module 
 just to reach an old area. This'll mean another 5-6 minute waiting time for it to clumsily perform 
 this.
  
  Sound: 5/10
  The only reason I'm not giving this a 3 is because I'm somewhat relieved that they added little 
 to no music of their own. 99% of the music is recycled from the original game. Due to them trying 
 to avoid using the same music over and over, you'll generally hear the few music tracks they have 
 playing over and over during battles and outside, etc. This is a relief for me though, since I 
 liked the original NWN music.
  
  Gameplay: 5/10
  I hated the UI. Its like something you'd see in some second-rate MMORPG except it was apparently 
 designed for a D&amp; D style game with way less features than the original NWN Universal Interface 
 and far more frusterating to use. The new movement system and click system is unncesessarily annoying. 
 Quite often due to the terrible camera and clumsy click system, if you can't target the enemy you're 
 about to charge in on exactly right without them moving, you'll end up charging up right next to 
 the enemy you're trying to surprise revealing yourself and putting yourself in the middle of where 
 you didn't want to be.
  
  The scripting of the module is incredibly glitchy. By this I do not mean the actual acting script 
 itself but the module script. For example, I had to cheat in order to pass certain parts of the 
 module 3 times due to there being a glitch that gets my player stuck if I used an item incorrectly, 
 oblivious to its importance. The module doesn't offer a great deal of free-roaming compared to 
 the original either. You can't go into houses anymore and you're bound to get stuck trying to find 
 an npc thats glitched its movement behind a house or something.
  
  The only reason I'm not giving the gameplay a 1 is because of the story. I enjoyed the story more 
 than the original NWN official campaign. I found it more immersive and the characters more agreeable 
 and realistic. However, on that note, mercenaries and other npc's can be extremely generic. Quite 
 often repeating the same script over and over.
  
  Value: 2/10
  I cannot say its value is high at all since the price was high and it gave me no enjoyment whatsoever. 
 Only frusteration. The collector's edition's bonuses were dissapointing to say the least, bar maybe 
 the artwork.
  
  Overall: 4
  Bioware should be ashamed for handing over the rights to the sequel to their classic game to anyone 
 but themselves. Obsidan has delivered a dissapointing system, UI, and gameplay. Not to mention 
 its been built incredibly clumsily. I don't know why or how NWN2 can be reviewed well when only 
 now it is starting to implement a few of the features of NWN1's UI realising the endless mistakes 
 they've made in the design due to the excessive anger on the bioware forums. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: echoman6007
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 12, 2007 2:07 pm PT
Review:  First off with all the reviews that people have given, I'm surprised to see people on here giving 
 reviews of what they thought it would be and what it is not.
  
  NWN2 is your standard D&amp; D game of old with the new 3.5 rule set. If you have never played the 
 pen &amp; paper table top game then you might feel a little upset that your players are not Hacking 
 a Slashing there way threw mobs of monsters. That is because it is not a Hack &amp; Slash game. 
 It is based on the old modules of the table top game where you and a group of friends go on an 
 adventure in a predetermined set of quest with a DM to guide you. In this case the computer takes 
 over for the DM.
  The game play follows the strict guidelines of a P&amp; P D&amp; D. Which for those looking for that 
 type of game will find it here. An other nice thing I've found is that magic items are not dropping 
 from every box or monster you kill and the gold is at a set value where you feel great when you 
 can buy your first big +1 magic item. The Graphics are great. With a nice graphics ( I'm using a 
 6800 GT OC) card and a LCD monitor with a digital signal coming in. They are top notch. When I 
 went from analog to digital the difference was amazing. They might not be the latest and greatest 
 as some other games but from what i've seen they are great.
  
  The camera is some thing to get use to but if you find the right combo to use it actually works 
 well. The sound is great with a surround sound system. If you are looking for a true D&amp; D PRG 
 and not a Hack &amp; Slash game then this is a good game to have in your collection. I waited a 
 while before picking up this game and after reading a lot of the reviews here i'm glad I got the 
 game. I'm setting my tilt to 10 only because this game is at least a 9.0 over all and it would 
 be under that if not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 12, 2007 12:23 pm PT
Review:  The first Neverwinter Nights was an achievement in some ways, but a failure at others. It was the 
 first game to offer a good online D&amp; D experience and a toolset for creating modules, but its 
 single player campaign seemed as much like a dumbed down mediocre tech demo as an actual game. 
 The expansion packs made some improvements, but they were still hampered by the main games limitations.
 
  
  Enter Neverwinter Nights 2, a project that in some ways is even more ambitious than its predecessor. 
 The game promises a great single player campaign, along with the same strong multiplayer of the 
 first, and a more versatile tool set. It has a lot to live up to, not only measuring up to its 
 pedigree, but providing relief to a three year drought of good D&amp; D games. The good news is, 
 in general, this game is great. Its significantly better than the first, in gameplay, story, and 
 art direction. As long as you keep your expectations reasonable and arent expecting the next coming 
 of Baldurs Gate 2, you should find this game very enjoyable. Its not perfect though, as the interface 
 is a step backwards, and the games old engine clearly shows its shortcomings in many areas. .
 
  
  By far, the biggest leap forward for Neverwinter Nights 2 is that you can now control all of your 
 party members, restoring the game to what it should be  a party-based RPG. Like the Baldurs Gate 
 and Kotor series, you meet traveling companions that join your party, and you can control how they 
 level up and the actions that they take in combat. Finally, tactics are back! You can have your 
 melee tank tie up two guys while your rogue executes a sneak attack and your wizard steps to the 
 side and launches a lightning bolt. Every battle has at least a dozen different ways to approach 
 it, depending upon how you have configured and equipped your party. D&amp; D may be rules heavy 
 and slightly tedious at times, but it makes up for it with some really great tactical gameplay. 
 This feature isnt as enjoyable as it should have been though, because the games interface and 
 AI make it hard to micromanage your party. More on that later.
  
  One of the highly touted features of the game is a new graphics engine. Neverwinter Nights 2 looks 
 beautiful in most places and has a lot of very nice spell effects. The texture and lighting quality 
 are really nice and characters look very good, even up close. The indoor areas, specifically, look 
 a lot better than they did in the first game. The blocky, repetitive and boring tileset-based look 
 of the first game is gone. So are the bare and empty indoor environments. Instead of blocky rooms 
 with one chest or coffin here and there against the wall, Neverwinter Nights 2 has rooms full of 
 clutter and various objects that give them a very realistic look. The graphics are sorely lacking 
 in the animation department though. Specifically, combat and spell casting animations are almost 
 nonexistent. Combatants dont do any blocking or parrying, and they dont make any motions to cast 
 spells. Often, a character will execute an attack without any motion on the screen. Doors and chests 
 just dissolve away when they are destroyed, instead of splintering into bits. Its not a huge problem, 
 but it makes combat less enjoyable to watch when the action on the screen does not match whats 
 actually happening, and it contributes to the overall feel that this game wasnt quite finished.
 
  
  Previous D&amp; D games, from Baldurs Gate through Temple of Elemental Evil have shown off a lot 
 of great ideas with their interfaces. The ideal approach to NWN2 would have been to take the best 
 elements of those other games and combine them into an excellent interface. NWN2 fails in this 
 regard. The interface isnt bad, but its unnecessarily clunky in a few areas, and it lacks some 
 of the functionality that previous games have had. For example, there is no way to click and drag 
 on the screen to select multiple party members. If you want everyone to attack one particular opponent, 
 you have to individually select each one and order it. There is no way to specify marching order, 
 so often your spellcasters will get caught out front. The hotkey bar is a step backwards from NWN2, 
 which was wonderfully efficient. You cant switch between bars with a single keystroke anymore, 
 and you cant hotkey voice commands like follow and attack anymore, a problem that will supposedly 
 be fixed with the next patch. Still, with the rather worthless AI of your companions, you need 
 to micromanage them to keep them alive sometimes, and the interface hasnt been designed well for 
 it. Fighting through some of the games tougher areas can be frustrating. Neverwinter Nights 2 
 has a few areas where it could have used more time and testing, and this is the biggest one.
  
  Another major disappointment with the game is its audio. Neverwinter Nights 2 has good voice 
 acting, but its sorely lacking in new music and sound effects. This game re-uses way too much 
 of the same soundtrack and spell chants that you have heard a million times if you played the first 
 game and its expansion packs. Theres a little bit of new music, but theres not much of it, and 
 its unremarkable anyways. All of the sound effects are exactly the same too. A sequel to a big 
 hit should not re-use so much of the first games sounds. Especially the soundtrack.
  
  Neverwinter Nights 2 spins a pretty good story, although it takes a long time to get off the ground. 
 It also provides some good NPCs with personality, although the interactions with them are pretty 
 formulaic (So tell me about yourself. Okay, heres a back story. Blah blah blah. Thats enough 
 for now. Ill tell you more when you gain another level) . I expected a little bit more in that 
 department. The story and the gameworld are pretty linear, even moreso than the first game. Theres 
 a world map, and you can revisit old areas, but Neverwinter Nights 2 never approaches the open-ended 
 epic feel of a Baldurs Gate type game. It doesnt help that cities have a deserted feel, due to 
 being largely empty and having very few civilians or NPCs wandering around. Game areas are pretty 
 small and separated by loading screens, another shortcoming of the original that carries over into 
 this game. Finally, the game is very linear and you will rarely have more than a few active quests, 
 much like Icewind Dale 1 and 2. .
  
  The official campaign is ultimately pretty long. After that, you can replay it with friends or 
 try some online modules. As with the original, theres not much out there yet that is good. Unlike 
 the original though, this game will provide you with a great experience out of the box immediately. 
 Neverwinter Nights 2 lacks the epic feel of the Baldurs Gate series and the interface refinements 
 of previous D&amp; D games. But it more than makes up for it with a new graphics engine and a return 
 to the party-based gameplay that used to define great RPGs. Neverwinter Nights 2 could have used 
 some more time in the oven, but its still the best D&amp; D game of the past five years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: l33tdaedalus
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 11, 2007 8:49 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: The game is made up of standard Dungeons and Dragons fare, so it should come to no surprise 
 that a game that prides itself upon being an accurate representation of DnD rules plays the way 
 it does. Your character and his or her allies automatically make their attacks, which are represented 
 by die-rolls. If desired, you can micromanage battles and completely control all of your characters' 
 actions, though this will involve a lot of pausing and issuing commands. My only real complaint 
 about combat is how all of your characters get resurrected at the end of combat. Seeing a character 
 get wasted by a fireball, only to stand back up really breaks my suspension of disbelief. Additinally, 
 being able to rest for six seconds in a dungeon occupied by enemies to regain all of your health 
 and spells seems downright cheesy. These two things almost feel like crutches that were used by 
 the developers as excuses to send waves and waves of enemies at you that an equivalent group in 
 a pen-and-paper setting would never survive.
  
  As you and your companions go through their adventures, they will gain experience, better equipment, 
 and most importantly, levels. Building characters in Neverwinter Nights 2 is genuinely fun, and 
 the large variety of feats, skills, races, and classes offers a wide assortment of possible character 
 types.
  
  While the artificial intelligence in the game usually does its job well, displays of mind-boggling 
 stupidity on its part are all too common. Your allies will frequently get stuck in doorways, fail 
 to navigate around your other allies to attack that enemy five feet away from them, sometimes cease 
 to follow the player, and will charge alone, head-on into a large group of enemies. This can make 
 the game downright frustrating at times.
  
  While the combat of the game is good and entertaining, some of the quests and missions you undertake 
 can really be a drag. In one quest, where you are charged with escorting a noble to safety, you 
 end up fighting approximately twenty identical groups of assassins, and it was getting boring by 
 the fifth.
  
  Graphics: The graphics, while good, are nothing amazing. Even worse is the fact that the obscene 
 system requirements for the game in no way match the final graphical output. Still, the game does 
 feature some nifty fire and spell effects, which are genuinely well-done and impressive.
  
  Sound: The first thing you might notice about Neverwinter Nights 2's sound is that a great deal 
 of it was imported from the original Neverwinter Nights. Most of the music, the voice-packages 
 for the main character, and even sound effects were imported from the original game. There was 
 nothing wrong with the original soundtrack and voice packages (the high-strung evangelist is still 
 my favorite) , but it is still somewhat disappointing to hear the same stuff that you are already 
 so familiar with.
  
  The voice-acting is quite good, though there are some notable characters that sound subpar or downright 
 annoying (Daeghun in particular grates on my nerves) .
  
  Value: The main campaign is quite linear. The plot itself offers very little in the way of freedom 
 or variation, and even some of the maps are blatant handholds that only offer one way to proceed 
 through hordes of unavoidable enemies. Some dialogues and situations you could use to avoid combat 
 and glean information are present, and the majority are well done. It is a shame that in a game 
 that is supposed to be a role-playing game, such options are so rare, and that most everything 
 is solved by straight-up combat.
  
  Luckily, the game comes with a toolset, multiplayer, and a dedicated community that continually 
 pumps out content. When you eventually tire of the main campaign, you will find plenty of new adventures 
 waiting for you.
  
  Tilt: The bugs in particular are what really drove this down for me. If they had been properly 
 gotten rid of, the game would have been a far more enjoyable experience. Additionally, with the 
 linearity of the main campaign, I feel like I will have to rely upon user-created modules to provide 
 a good role-playing environment.
  
  Final Thoughts: Given Obsidian's track record with Knights of the Old Republic 2 and Neverwinter 
 Nights 2, Obsidian really needs to focus upon squashing the bugs that are rife in their games. 
 Doing so would go a long way to bring up their games from their current level of mediocrity to 
 genuinely good. If this game offered nonlinearity as well, it would be truly great. Here's to hoping 
 an expansion or another offering by Obsidian turns out better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rambamatic
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jan 11, 2007 4:56 pm PT
Review:  I have played all of the Gothic series, all of the Elder Scrolls series, all of the Diablo games 
 and expansions, all of the Dungeon Siege games, and this is my first time playing a Dungeons and 
 Dragons style RPG. The only thing that I can say is that I am so incredibly disappointed that I 
 can't overstate it. The best thing about playing RPG games is the combat. Building characters is 
 really only fun because you get to use the skills and abilities in combat. However, this combat 
 system is amazingly stupid. It is not a real time combat system; it is turn based. So, instead 
 of engaging in exciting battles, 80% of the fighting involves you just sitting there and waiting 
 for the computer to roll its die and announce critical hit or hit for 2/10 damage or some other 
 such nonsense. Your character literally attacks, and then sits there waiting for its enemy to take 
 its turn to hit you while the computer announces dice rolls. Even Dungeon Siege, which is an good, 
 but not a great game, has a better combat system and more entertaining and fun interface than this 
 game. Granted, the graphics are great, the voice acting is excellent, the story is wonderful. However, 
 the gameplay is totally and completely linear, you have very little flexibility in terms of where 
 you can go and what you can do (which makes it's replay value virtually nil) .
  
  All in all, I don't understand why anyone would play this game. It is a waste of both time and 
 money, and is getting resold on Ebay after about 22 hours of playing..... and that's 22 hours I'm 
 never going to get back.
  
  Save your money and play Oblivion, Gothic 3, or Dungeon Siege II. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jzalesski
Rating: 5.2
Date: Jan 11, 2007 1:22 pm PT
Review:  This game has no replay value! It is an adventure game with a RPG character sheet! You dont get 
 to role play, but play threw a laid out role for you! Its like a movie game where you play through 
 the movie events just the way they happened, not RPG where you make the movie (i. e. Role playing! 
 lol) . Better read a book where you pretend you're in it because your options and events are already 
 set for you! Every time you replay you replay threw the same things same people same choices same 
 ending etc! Totally 100% Linear!! In this game there are very limited areas you can walk to and 
 in, kind of like Mist with your character on the screen.
  Ive played Neverwinter nights 1 with all of its expansions and was hoping Neverwinter nights 2 
 would be better only to be disappointed. Baulders Gate 1 and 2 were much better games. Fallout 
 1 and 2 top RPGs on the computer! What makes an RPG  Role Playing Game is that you get to play 
 pretend like when you were a kid. You should be able to kill anyone or at least attempt to at anytime 
 and to go anywhere you want to at anytime or at least attempt to! Not get stopped by a 1 foot shrub 
 that you cant walk over lol! If I want to go hiking in the woods I should be able to! The beauty 
 of an RPG is that you get to make your own story, a mark, a name for yourself of your choosing 
 within the realm or world that you are playing in. If I wanted to play though (Forced to) some 
 elses story I would have bought a book not an RPG!! Cant wait for a completely NON-Linear RPG 
 game to come out! Cant believe I have to say this since RPGs are non-linear or at least they 
 are supposed to be! This is an awesome Adventure game! It is a great story! But it is no RPG (Role 
 Playing Game) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThisFire
Rating: 2.8
Date: Jan 10, 2007 11:33 am PT
Review:  Boring, boring, boring...
  
  Graphics - Garbage. Looks like something made 5 years ago. If I tell the system to autodetect settings, 
 everything goes to max, and it still looks like garbage. The character animations are minimal, 
 to say the least. The text boxes for non cinematic interaction are small and difficult to read, 
 the environments are pretty boring (mostly common. Ooooo, a forest in a role playing game. How 
 creative.)
  
  Sound- Music is fine. Voice acting would be o. k. if the writing didn't suck.
  
  Plot/script 
 writing- Boring plot. Not creative, not engaging. The writing is probably the worst I've ever seen 
 (o. k, that's an overstatment) . It's childish and amateurish. I know they're trying to reach out 
 to a broader audience, but come on, you're attached to the D&amp; D liscense. Gameplay- You never 
 hit anything! In the fights, you just watch your characters and the enemies swing at the air for 
 two minutes, then one person lands a hit, and it's more air swinging. Stupid and boring. Inventory, 
 leveling up and stuff... meh. Common, nothing special.
  
  Tilt- Negative 10 out of ten. I hated it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_last_devil
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 9, 2007 8:32 am PT
Review:  I've been waiting for Neverwinter Nights 2 for a long time. I missed the times when Baldur's Gate 
 2 ruled my PC, I missed various quests, great NPCs and amazing adventures. Have my hunger for a 
 great cRPG been satisfied? Read on...
  For all you desperate fans of tables with numbers used for creating a character (yes, I'm also 
 a desperate fan of tables with numbers used for creating a character ;) ) I have one thing to say: 
 they're here! You can go the easy way or the way we love the most, by slowly shaping our alter-ego. 
 When I started the game I was shocked by the graphics... I mean, they are really bad for the PC 
 they require. But in a cRPG, graphics is not really that important so I simply forgot about it 
 and went with the flow. And that's it! The main story is so great that you'll simply forget about 
 the surrounding world (remember the 'hint' in BG2: 'Remember to eat'? Same one applies here) . There 
 aren't many side-quest, that's a fact. It's nothing like Baldur's Gate 2, but the main story is 
 the real essence of the game. It starts in a quite not interesting way - your village is attacked, 
 you leave to seek out the truth... Heard that before? Sure, but soon you'll get really involved 
 by the various twists in the story. Are 40 hours enough? For some, probably, for some probably 
 not, but for those whose hunger is still not satisfied - there is the multi-player. And yes, going 
 through the campaign with your friends is a wonderful experience.
  There is one more thing I always pay attention to. Controlling your hero. Here you can do it by 
 using the WSAD buttons or the mouse. Scared? No need, it's really ok, similar to KOTOR I must say. 
 There is an active pause of course, during which you can for example choose which deadly spells 
 to throw at your foes. And yes, you don't travel alone. 3 or more people follow you. They do their 
 best during the fights, and if you don't like it, you can give them some orders. To sum up, Neverwinter 
 Nights 2 is a great game. If you spent your days (or nights) with Baldur's Gate or Icewind Dale 
 - you will not be disappointed. It lives up to the expectations! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Myriddan
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 7, 2007 11:19 pm PT
Review:  Neverwinter Nights 2 is the latest RPG from Obsidian (maker of KOTOR2 among others) and is a great 
 addition to the series. You start off in a small village by the swamp fighting in a local competition 
 to see who the best and brightest from the village are. Soon enough things go wrong in epic proportion. 
 You guide character on the path of good or evil; obeying the law or promoting anarchy; through 
 three different acts and 20 levels (or less if you're one of the races that has a level modifier) . 
 The good news is that the main campaign is extremely long (60-80 hours I believe, I played non-stop 
 for a week before finishing the game) . The bad news is that there are very few side quests making 
 the game fairly linear that doesn't change much after multiple play throughs (There is really only 
 one significant difference in the game in which you can change the story slightly) . Despite this 
 the game is extremely fun and luckily the Neverwinter Nights community is one of the best modding 
 communities allowing for excellent modules that you can play through instead. Many of the other 
 problems in the game can also be solved with mods, although as to why Obsidian didn't fix the problems 
 themselves is a mystery. The companion AI is horrendous, offensive spellcasters insist on using 
 area of effect spells when either your party is next to the target or there is only a single target 
 left, healers refuse to heal anyone but themselves, and fighters randomly stop attacking. The pathfinding 
 AI is also flaky, often many companions will just stop and sit there why you run off to do battle. 
 Even's AI fixes most of these problems adequately, but not completely to my satisfaction. (AI can 
 be found here http://nwvault. ign. com/View. php? view=NWN2HakpaksOriginal. Detail&amp; id=11) . Other 
 technical problems include extremely large lag due to the graphics (which for some reason aren't 
 as good as Oblivion but lag twice as much) , long load times, and some cutscene loop glitches (this 
 was the most annoying as the cutscene would loop every 5 seconds during a battle causing everything 
 to reset) .
  
  Despite all the problems, I encourage everyone to pick up the game and play through it as well 
 as try out a few of the community modules that have been put together. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lmrp74
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 6, 2007 8:49 am PT
Review:  great great great!!!!!!
  no word to say how it is a full immersion game, great landscapes great adventures, push gamer ahead 
 in exploring continuously.
  challenging in every action and quest.
  great game play, good graphics and sound, a never ending title.
  its only flaw is that it has 
 an end, because when you decide to begin you will not want to stop forever.
  No other game gave me such an intense feeling.
  So I advise every player interested in RPG games, 
 to buy it and play.
  Enjoy gaming and be ready to travel into the amazing realm of Neverwinter nights 2.
  I warmly 
 suggest to buy the collector edition, which includes first chapter and expansions too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Atomic_Mutant
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 15, 2007 10:32 pm PT
Review:  Neverwinter Nights 2 (NWN2) is the latest CRPG interpretation of the Forgotten Realms Dungeons 
 &amp; Dragons setting following in the steps of such CRPG luminaries like Baldurs Gate and Icewind 
 Dale. The original Neverwinter Nights was a unique event for the PC RPG community as it was more 
 of a toolset that allowed the creation of new adventures in terms of modules that were available 
 either in downloadable form or manifest in multiplayer persistent worlds with its own aspirations 
 of design covering other alluring elements in the breadth of D&amp; D.
  
  Essentially, NWN2 is more of the same. Its official campaign as compared to the first one is more 
 expanded than what amounted to be merely an afterthought and certainly aspires to greater things, 
 but serves the same purpose of showcasing first and foremost what the toolset is capable of. The 
 problem may be that it does not seem to offer any drastic improvement over the original gameplay 
 wise that could not be realized by custom content contributed via the Aurora toolset by the community 
 at large.
  
  Gameplay: NWN2 dutifully incorporates one of the most faithful adaptations of the updated D&amp; D 
 ruleset into the same real-time with pause combat mechanics. I happen to believe that real time 
 in any incarnation or form clashes with original D&amp; D turn based gameplay. Real-time with pause 
 now seems not so much a compromise as more akin to complacency. I believe it does not qualify for 
 the if it isnt broke, dont fix it mantra of game design, and seems to be more a repercussion 
 from a resource management decision to adapt the Aurora engine into the new Electron engine albeit 
 with some substantial graphical facelift. As for the specific aspects of D&amp; D ruleset, currently 
 in version 3.5, I am not so as well versed as to analyze the underpinnings of the system, but the 
 general consensus from the official forums seems to lean toward being satisfied, despite a few 
 oversights either due to design and balancing limitations or bugs of technical nature.
  
  The interface is strewn to the four corners of the screen, and while fully functional and can be 
 positioned to preference by drag and drop, seems needlessly disorientating. The interface also 
 hides some useful broadcast commands one right mouse button hold away that govern much of party 
 interaction. This includes heal requests and movement orders, dealing generally with manipulating 
 the artificial intelligence. The options for AI customization are ensconced under a tab accessible 
 from the character panel, far removed from the broadcast commands. The map panel is static in size 
 and direction, irrespective of camera rotation. Characters on the map are represented by arrowheads 
 of the same color, with the cone emanating from arrowhead indicating the direction a selected character 
 is facing. A group formation option would have been nice. Furthermore, the map cannot be used to 
 give tactical movement commands to cover a wider area than what the camera view would allow, nor 
 does it allow any additional description via custom inscriptions. The inventory system is serviceable 
 but consists of small equally sized spaces where only a representation of an item stored is visible. 
 It quickly fills up into an unmanageable clutter and it gets rather painstaking to identify and 
 organize the items by its respective icons. The mess is compounded by not being able to automatically 
 receive visual feedback of the changes the magically enchanted items affect the status of the character 
 (this information is instead found on the character sheet) , and not having auto sorting option.
 
  
  Camera is another aspect of gameplay that is somewhat problematic. It is hard to achieve the ideal 
 perspective from which to view the characters and their surroundings, and it presents a constant 
 task to update and wrestle with the camera as it defaults to its starting zoom and tilt when new 
 locations are loaded, in addition to a tendency to zoom in when placed in certain over the shoulder 
 position behind the characters. This is the most prevalent when the camera is stuck between the 
 characters just having exited a building and a trigger behind its door.
  
  The AI itself leaves a bit to be desired, in that it seems to require at least a couple seconds 
 to register with where the player character is traveling and how to position their next destination 
 in the form of map waypoints, making them straggle. The AI also comes short in group dynamics. 
 It does not hesitate flinging are of effect spells that harm party members interlocked with foes 
 targeted, and seems hamstrung by the most strange spell casting macros that undo preparatory buffs 
 and generally fails to assess the special status (immunity, health points, etc.) of opponents. 
 The party members do not use skills effectively or just does not use them at all, which more or 
 less obviates investing in particular sets of skills for specialization unless micromanaged to 
 be put to use with the AI inactivated (a la Puppet mode) . Despite all the aforementioned problems, 
 I rarely found myself left wanting for a more robust AI during a play through on normal difficulty, 
 and the problems never amounted to more than mild annoyances. The playability is probably due to 
 the straightforward nature of the game, only requiring the other party members to perform a specific 
 task from time to time.
  
  The game is relatively easy, but it is enough to last 40 to 50 hours on the first play through. 
 This seems to encourage experimentation with the skill sets and classes, and the possibility is 
 quite endless, between all the options available in not only prestige classes but races. Whatever 
 vulnerabilities your planned character would possess, your party members would more than make up 
 for them. Another aspect of the gameplay worth mentioning is that there is a specific sequence 
 of events where you will be able to oversee the development of a keep, and this presents some refreshing 
 change of gameplay opportunity to affect the outcome of the latter game events amid all the fighting. 
 The ability to impact the consequences of your actions and more specifically the choices in dialogue 
 extends to the influence system that manages how your party members interact. This type of relationship 
 system most gamers will recall from KOTOR and KOTOR II, and in NWN2, it is less vaunted in its 
 scope but still relevant in realistic portrayal of characters. The problem is that all available 
 characters are not sufficiently supported by enough exposition nor do they command a variety of 
 dialogues and seem to provide any dynamic response to the relationship changes through independent 
 action until the very end. It is disappointing since most of the characters are well conceived 
 and interesting, but as it is now, they seem nevertheless too enigmatic and forlorn for ostensible 
 cohorts all bound by a common objective requiring their life commitment, but this could even be 
 regarded as realistic by some.
  
  The game is definitely combat heavy, in some sections (especially Act I) almost to the point of 
 being drudgery, and it tends to expose and aggravate some of the shortcomings in the AI and the 
 camera functions. However, the fighting closely pertains to the worthwhile incentive and premises 
 provided via the plot, and seldom feels pointless after Act II where the plot becomes more honed 
 and much better paced than the first act.
  
  Graphics: the graphics in NWN2 (Electron engine) seem to be an evolved version of what KOTOR2s 
 Odyssey engine showcased, with revamped shader functions and ample normal mapping. Excuse me for 
 being rather limited in describing how well they look in terms of recent graphics technology, but 
 the game seems to use all that DirectX 9.0c offers and thus looks much better than the original 
 NWN. The camera, granting its problems, has more range and could even be placed on ground level 
 with the horizon and sky visible all in their glory (including nice touches such as comets trailing 
 in the night sky) through its night and day cycles that are unfortunately not gradually proceeded. 
 The water looks very good, and in some cases the natural surroundings attain some sort of photorealistic 
 quality when viewed from distance. The performance is admittedly not great by any means, especially 
 with a lot of objects and iridescent, visually magnificent magic effects on display. The framerates 
 can be managed to a minimal degree, through a bevy of visual options including anti aliasing and 
 anisotropic settings, not to mention how the water is rendered and the quality of textures used. 
 The shadow and the water settings seem to have the most profound effect on performance overall. 
 The hardware memory and CPU do not affect the performance as much as a graphics card.
  
  The graphics suffer from occasional clippings (armor protruding out of cloaks, etc.) and the engine 
 is rater limited in articulating emotions through facial expressions and body languages. The animation 
 provides a continuous visual feedback of action and maintains some semblance of continuity to the 
 proceedings, but foregoes some of the representation of skills and status. The increase in run 
 speed manifests in the same animated character simply covering more ground, for example. What is 
 also irritating is how some party member character models do not change appearance after equipment 
 alterations. The armor does change their appearances in accordance to their body size, but helmet 
 does not register any change. It is incomprehensible that the developer would have created all 
 the different variations of armor types and other equipment added onto the base character models 
 of all the races and their subtypes and neglect the NPCs. Fortunately, your player character does 
 not have any similar limitation. Some players may find absence of wings on red dragon disciples 
 or tails on tiefling characters as notable omissions. One could not also view the Reavers in 
 the game with its color coded mantles and not recall with little persuasion the Power Ranger undercurrents 
 (this time, the blue one is the apparent top dog) .
  
  NWN2 features a wealth of models to aesthetically render all manner of scenarios that permeate 
 any conventional fantasy setting and this is no better observed than in exploring its toolset assets. 
 The amount of variation in terms of environmental objects and other visual elements is nothing 
 short of breathtaking. The sophistication of the graphics may increase the complexity and learning 
 curve of the toolset and may change how the modules are constructed with regards to time investment. 
 However, I believe that the creators will be no less impressed as compared to NWN1 with how much 
 progress was made between the last of the expansions and NWN2 and for a while would not likely 
 find the graphics aspect of the toolset wanting.
  
  Sound: NWN2 recycles most sound effects such as those involved in magic incantations and even soundtrack 
 music from its predecessor. There is nothing objectionable, but nothing remarkable either. The 
 sound music files can be just renamed to .mp3 extension for a listen through any media player (128 
 kbps, at near CD-quality) . The voice acting is plentiful and quite well done, and corresponds to 
 the written lines without any major mishaps (some written dialogues are missing ellipses) . One 
 character I particularly liked is the warlock, voice and otherwise. He very much represents the 
 significant theme of the game and is quite similar to the character Kreia from KOTOR2 without all 
 the annoying peculiarity.
  
  EAX 3 sound acceleration is supported in NWN2. The situational music features appropriate amount 
 of reasonably arranged materials, and helps increase tension and excitement in the right moments.
 
  
  Value and Tilt: NWN2 as its place in the CRPG genre is almost unique in its position as providing 
 the full and almost unfettered access into another Dungeons &amp; Dragons adventure. Its toolset, 
 while more complex, will be no doubt utilized to full extent in creating very high quality modules 
 and new adventures that will be shared and enjoyed by the wonderful community that made the original 
 game a resounding success. The single player campaign itself was constructed using the toolset 
 and can be modified via the toolset for evaluation purposes (or cheat) . The single player campaign, 
 while at some points quite tepid (especially during the Act I) , has an engaging and substantial 
 storyline, however anti-climactic I felt about the ending (at the same time hoping for an expansion 
 pack that continues the story via the exported character) . It also presents a number of novelty 
 gameplay mechanics (no doubt gleaned or inspired from a number of community work on NWN) that is 
 short of one card based mini game from being able to fully present the derivative nature of escapist 
 fun aside from the core D&amp; D system.
  
  The game offers some good old adventuring opportunity to those who were wondering if the license 
 had any remaining relevance to PC RPG genre, and the toolset improves its prospects for longevity. 
 With a couple of additional patches the most pressing system and gameplay issues should be addressed. 
 One of the aspects that need immediate improvement is currently its multiplayer component, which 
 doesn't seem to have added any convenience feature or improved its performance or stability over 
 its predecessor upon cursory examination. In the long run, the true value of this game will depend 
 on the level of support undertaken by Obsidian and Atari in the course of its product life cycle. 
 If you are able to endure the camera and the lackluster AI, some of which can be amended via community 
 supported patches on Neverwinter Vault, at http://nwvault. ign. com (most popular ones including 
 the AI patch and the xUI interface plugin) , then NWN2 will last you for a long period and provide 
 an enjoyable experience. It is certainly a viable style of RPG as opposed to emergent free-roaming 
 style adventure, providing a focused and involving main plot all the while providing plenty of 
 character defining and relationship building side quests. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stpkg
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 2, 2007 7:03 pm PT
Review:  Neverwinter Nights is a great title.
  However the irresponsibility of the developer void our confident to this series. It seems not much 
 checking whenever a patch is released.
  
  A) Game still find crashing when loading and major bugs after patching (version 1.03.840) .
  
 
  B) Graphic engine is too power hunger and premature.
  You probably cannot get a satisfactory setting if you don't own a most update PC.
  
  C) Camera 
 View is a mess.
  a) In the dialogue mode, the camera zooming is a mess without take care of the obstacles from the 
 player's view.
  b) Free camera cannot zoom out when character travel to different attitude.
  Say, if the character 
 travel from plain up a hill, it will zoom closer and closer to the ground and cannot zoom out and 
 you can only see the feet of the character unless you change camera mode to re-enable the zoom.
 
  
  D) Inventory management interface is primitive and buggy.
  For instance, a) the bag is reset to the 1st item every time you take out or add a thing.
  It 
 is annoying to trace back to the same spot.
  b) sometimes when you take out a thing from the bag, the icon is still remain and duplicated and 
 causing confusion.
  c) sometimes a bag cannot show all its content when the number of stuff exceed around 60 to 70. 
 You need to close it and re-open again.
  d) most of the time, you need to merge things manually.
  e) no auto sorting 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdohaney
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 1, 2007 12:51 pm PT
Review:  Great graphics, great story, allows you to play at your own pace; all around a good game. Something 
 this genre has been waiting for since the KOTOR series and the first Neverwinter. There were some 
 bugs, but they were all due to shading and shadowing which can be controlled in the option menu. 
 Anyone running a card below something comparable to the 7900 may want to reduce shadowing a bit. 
 Even with the odd bug, the game kept me glued to the monitor over x-mas with my family tearing 
 me away form the machine. The games story in so in depth that you will find yourself up at awkward 
 hours just to extend the gameplay a bit. One tip, when leveling do some research on what characteristics 
 your player will need to achieve different feats. It becomes imperative if you want to achieve 
 special classing later in the game.
  
  Lastly, just play the game, you won't be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eliasgames
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 14, 2007 1:54 pm PT
Review:  What happened to improved AI and character control?
  
  There are no controls designed to take advantage of the various characters. Did the designers of 
 this game ever play pen and paper DnD? Combat comes down to space bar mashing and individually 
 selecting characters and hoping the commands you select will be followed.
  
  Why they just didn't activate turn-based combat that automatically switches from one party member 
 to the other based on initiative is beyond me.
  
  Why doesn't my thief try to use her backstab as much as possible is beyond me. My animal companion 
 generally runs off and does it's own thing or just stands around.
  
  Sigh... Another case of improved graphics at the cost of better gameplay.
  
  Save your money, 
 keep playing the original and it's expansions. You can get good deals from the 'bargain bin. This 
 one wouldn't even be worth waiting for the bargain bin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: limraz
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 31, 2006 11:29 pm PT
Review:  Neverwinter 2 have one brainwashing problem - there are no real problems, only strong points undermined 
 by design flaw and bad choices from the producer ! Those are a couple of them :
  1. Graphics - great, up-to- date. In the same time most of the houses are just `picture on the 
 wall` , except those open by the game story. Good bye looting ! 2. Requirements - this game use 
 a lot of resources, `cause the graphics are so demanding and a smooth play imply serious work in 
 the Options menu. 3. Races/Class - I think is a waste of time to use the same race/class features 
 all over again. Bonuses and penalties should be related to your class/multiclass choice and the 
 way someone play - evil, good, neutral or
  changing direction. This way a dwarf and his subraces, for example, will have a normal charisma 
 affected by your choices. Also I noticed that Aasimar characters level hard (game manual, my play) 
 and get less money than others (my play) .
  4. Team management - in puppet mode you have to choose the right action for everyone and is a painfull 
 experience. In free mode they act crazy, especially sidekicks with high spot, search, listen, etc 
 who rush towards
  enemy leaving you behind. I use broadcast command, but some of them simply ignore a command.
 
  5. Loot/Trade - first is `hard work` to make a character open a chest, loot some remains, etc 
 because many times I see him doing a `giga` dance around for some strage reason (present also in 
 Neverwinter 1) . Second is far less appealing when good loot, obtained from clearing a cave/graveyard/castle, 
 worth almost nothing at merchants.
  Mainstory, combat and crafting are the most proeminent features of Neverwinter 2 and can be really 
 fun after you understand the game problems and how to avoid them. Crafting is a good thing who 
 saves a lot of money once you decide to put points in craft armor, leaving other character to enhance 
 craft alchemy, weapons, etc. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pemobian
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 31, 2006 10:14 pm PT
Review:  The sheer scope of a game such as Neverwinter Nights 2 makes it difficult to cover entirely, so 
 I will limit this assessment to general considerations only. Players of the original Neverwinter 
 Nights will notice a number of differences in this new release, most notably improvements to the 
 conversation system. During important conversations, the camera now enters a cut-scene-like mode, 
 where it zooms in, plays voice-overs and displays text and options at the bottom of the screen.
 
  
  Also, gone are the henchmen of yesteryear. You will now find your character traveling with a number 
 of interesting companions, all of whom have unique stories and personalities. Doing or saying certain 
 things can affect your influence with your companions, determining what they are willing to tell 
 you and, ultimately, whether they stay or go. This is not necessarily as effective as it sounds, 
 however, because gaining influence with companion characters amounts to telling them what they 
 want to hear, as opposed to (in most cases) being able to actually change their minds about something. 
 Still, it's a nice feature and a welcome addition. Perhaps future updates or expansions will refine 
 it further.
  
  In general, the core gameplay is unchanged from the old Neverwinter Nights.
  
  The audio of 
 NWN 2, while passable, is disappointing in that it recycles many sounds from the original game. 
 Many of the voices are re-used. Some of the acting is questionable, but most of the major characters 
 are voiced very well. From a hardware perspective, the game has some issues with sound (for example, 
 running the toolset killed my sound in-game until performing a reboot) , but most problems can be 
 solved by turning acceleration down to Standard or Basic in DirectX Diag. An authentic Creative 
 Labs product will probably run fine, though it's regrettable the hardware support is not more inclusive.
 
  
  Graphically, NWN 2 features a new, realistic outdoor terrain system and modest improvements in 
 the textures and animation from the original NWN. At face value, the game looks fine, but the performance 
 requirements are so drastically higher than the first NWN, one can't help but wonder what happened 
 to so de-optimize the engine. Nonetheless, a reasonably powerful machine should have no problem. 
 My dual core 4200+ and GeForce 7600 GT experience minor lag only when a certain web spell is cast 
 by wizards and sorcerers. I have played through the campaign one and a half times thus far, and 
 I've yet to see any significant performance problems.
  
  What actually made the original NWN into such a long-lasting game was the toolset -- the program 
 with which players can create their own levels, stories, items, etc. The new toolset for NWN 2 
 is similar in functionality, and I believe it will provide years' worth of new content, but it 
 is harder to use than the old one. The interface isn't as intuitive, and the learning curve is 
 steeper. However, you can do a lot more with the new editor than with the old one. As the scripting 
 language for NWN 2 (NWN Script) is unchanged from the original game, anyone with previous toolset 
 experience should make the transition nicely. For newcomers, an active forum community and numerous 
 online tutorials should get you started.
  
  Neverwinter Nights 2 is one of the few games to come out in recent years that I would say is actually 
 worth $49.99. Numerous titles are worthy of plucking from the bargain bin or waiting for a price 
 drop to a more reasonable $29.99. But NWN 2's toolset alone makes it a deal, not to mention the 
 freely downloadable content made available by players and builders around the world. Further, multiplayer 
 servers are active constantly, and some aspiring mod-makers have even gone as far as creating persistent 
 worlds for the game (which wasn't even intended by developer Obsidian) .
  
  Overall, even if you're like me and are bored to tears with most D&amp; D crap, Neverwinter Nights 
 2 is a great PC game with a great story. Combined with the toolset, it should be around as long 
 as players want it to be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: role-player07
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 30, 2006 8:09 am PT
Review:  In NWN 2 it's all about the story, and the options of what you say to greet people or try to work 
 things out. Thats why I love this game so much. It has a lot of reading, but you can actually enjoy 
 it. With the cut-scenes you're excited about what is going to happen next. NWN 2 has a large selection 
 of races as well as the charactistics of your hero or player. I haven't tried the online yet, surprisingly 
 because I almost always get rid of the campaign half way through and go straight to multiplayer. 
 This game takes some time to like it, as it does for me. With all honesty I love this game more 
 everytime I play. I feel that the only struggle in this game is the graphics could use a little 
 more improvement and as well with the gameplay, especially with the fights. If it seems the gameplay 
 is very choppy press escape, go into game options, and than there is a graphics bar that you can 
 lower down all the way. It doesn't even effect the graphics too much, and it is plenty worth it 
 because the gameplay is so much smoother. I don't think it takes too much time to make arrangements 
 to your allies, with their spells so don't think too much of what people say about that. Also, 
 the inventory is endless with new items. I think to start off as a class pick Half-Elf, or Human. 
 The level of play is changeable so thats fine. This game is turned-based, when I heard that I thought 
 I was going to be very aggravated with the game, actually I was patient with the game and it seemed 
 fine to me. When your trying to use something in your inventory while you're playing just simply 
 press the space bar to pause, and than do what you want in your inventory, and press the space 
 bar once more and he will do whatever you told him. You get a lot of loot, and you will get a lot 
 more if you have a rogue in your party because they can unlock things, and disable traps. If you 
 are impatient and hate reading and just don't like a slow game than don't get Neverwinter Nights 
 2, but if you can handle it I have a very strong opinion that you will love this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 70x7
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 30, 2006 6:08 am PT
Review:  Lets face it, Obsidian/Bioware had a huge pair of shoes to fill when coming into the making of 
 this anticipated sequel. Their first installment is by far one of the best RPG's to ever see the 
 computer screen. Neverwinter Nights had it all, story, gameplay, content and more. Since the release 
 of that first installment the companies that brought us such games have been through many other 
 franchises. Doing an amazing job with the Knights of the Old Republic (1st by Bioware then handed 
 to Obsidian) and other such games they had a lot more experience coming into the making of this 
 title.
  
  But even with the experience, the responsibility to make this game amazing was still no doubt weighing 
 heavily over their heads.
  
  First lets just put a few odd complaints to rest that may or may not have been whined upon by other 
 reviewers, shall we?
  
  Bugs: Lately the releases we've been forced to put up with have been tedious at best, and absolutely 
 abismal at worst. Games filled with unfinished content, and game breaking bugs that won't let you 
 progress into the game, let alone keep your computer running, with the hard boots and complete 
 lock up's that these virtual-devils seem to have the ability to cause. However as soon as I started 
 NWN2 I could sort of feel the solidness of the game. With any computer title there are going to 
 be certain pieces of hardware, or certain drivers that just don't like running with certain graphic 
 settings with in a set game. This game is no acception. While I can run the game on full graphics 
 without a single problem, I can even minimize as well as use Xfire while running the game and not 
 a single glitch, bug, crash, or freeze has happened. Then again my friend couldn't get through 
 the load screen until he chose to use the recommended settings, that the game chose for him, but 
 now that he has, the game looks great and he plays without a problem at all. It seems that most 
 people with problems just don't understand the fact that there are unlimited setups for computers. 
 Differing hardware, differing software, different operating systems and the list of things that 
 are changeable and have so many options to choose from are limitless. You most definitely have 
 to have great faith and perseverence to 1. Understand this, 2. Judge it correctly without being 
 a douche , if I may. You're computer may not run a certain way of perfection while another (like 
 mine) has no issues whatsoever with the game. Fact of the matter is even great developers that 
 have not yet fallen into the nazi trends that have seen the fates of so many big companies lately, 
 still cannot make a game run on every system setup without a patch or a driver update. It's just 
 a simple fact that no matter how many beta tests you have on how many systems, you'll never be 
 able to test 100 percent for compatibility with every variation of setup on a computer. This game 
 is a very solid game, a promise you such, and Im sure any problem you have will be quickly remedied 
 by a setting change or a driver switch/update. If all else fails scour the forums, if you don't 
 try to find a solution, then really who's fault is it?
  
  Gameplay: For some reason there are attacks on the general gameplay of the game. So lets first 
 outline what the gameplay is really all about. Basically you have to think back firstly to the 
 original game, Neverwinter Nights. You take that, add a new story, a new graphics engine, and a 
 bit more functionality. Then you take the storytelling stylings they incorporated into the KOTOR 
 series. The conversation scenes are remarkably the same as the style they took with Knights of 
 the Old Republic. They even tossed in a bit of the fighting style to spruce things up. A slightly 
 modified skill/spell system, that manages to innovate while still not straying from the D&amp; D 
 rules/system. This is where most reviews on the game tend to contradict themselves. By saying things 
 like how the gameplay offers nothing new, then going back to say that the game does not offer anything 
 for the D&amp; D fans looking for a good RPG based around the system. Make up your mind, it's either 
 different or it isn't, aye? Fact of the matter is, it's the same game as the first, simplified 
 and adjusted to the modern day gamer. Traveling is different, settings are different, the entire 
 engine is different. But at the core of the game its NWN's sequel in it's own right, and any changes 
 that were made may not have all been an improvement but if you truly look you will be hard pressed 
 to find a change that made the game any worse.
  
  Toolset: It is apparent that the people criticizing this at all are looking for something along 
 the lines of The Sims: D&amp; D Addition or some such nonsense. Expecting simplicity to the point 
 that any dunce with a keyboard and a monitor can make his own game is silly. It's like using Source 
 SDK and saying you should be able to make Half-Life 3 in a couple hours. Silly. The toolset isn't 
 your own personal video game designer. It's for people who have a taste for developement, whether 
 it be designing worlds, writing stories, creating architecture. Or all of that together. Time is 
 to be put into such, if you wan't a sandbox go play Sim City. After you complete the game, your 
 gaming experience further thrives on the overwhelmingly extensive Multiplayer atmosphere. It offers 
 you persistent worlds that give you the abiklity to play in your own mini-MMORPG. Or run through 
 usermade quests to keep the gameplay new and appealing. The fact of teh matter is its amazing not 
 because of how much content it offers, but because of the quality of it. The modules you receive 
 after the fact are made by people willing to put in the time to create them, to learn to use the 
 Toolset. If anything I would think you would all be thanking them for not making it The Sims 3, 
 so that we're not running around in ridiculous environments that were created in 30 minutes. I 
 and I'm sure bioware apologize to those who don't have the time to learn to use such, but in the 
 end laziness is really the answer to the reason why you yourself can't create the worlds you complain 
 that you cannot.
  
  This is where I would continue to write my review after criticizing other's. But really, just read 
 above and you can put two and two together, and on that note here is my decisive conclusion on 
 the matter...
  
  Neverwinter Nights 2 holds up its end of the deal and more. Offering the same amazing gaming experience 
 as the first, with a more appealing visual look, as well as simplified navigation of the game as 
 a whole. It is by far one of the better RPG's out to date, even in competition of the classics 
 of the past. If you play through this title and are disappointed, there is truly something wrong 
 with you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blazer88
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 28, 2006 2:06 pm PT
Review:  NWN2 is the sequal to Bioware's NWN RPG game made a few years back. This one is made by Obsidian 
 and my expectations for it were very high because honestly I didn't see any way that they could 
 easily screww it up.
  Unfortunately I am not comeletely happy with theis game. Obsidian put out a very buggy, wait, beter 
 to say, unfinished game. As someone who has played my share of PC games and loves them I am used 
 to bugs, but this is beyond the exceptable limit, hence why I would called it unfinished instead 
 of just buggy.
  I am not really happy with the UI changes as of yet either. The changes Obsidian made wwere actually 
 a step backwards and made control and navigation more of a chore.
  The AI is touted as improved, but in the games release state I can tell you that you companions 
 are retarded and will often charge ahead of you and get themselves killed. This is not only annoying 
 but Obdisian added an even more annoying feature that prevents you from leaving the area without 
 your companions. Meaning you have to fight the battle alone now and win, or else. Lame.
  Your worst enemy in the game is the camera. In the old game I can remember having to move it all 
 the time too but because everything was as large as it is in this NWN, you didn; t have much that 
 blocked your view. In NWN2,.. this are much better to scale grapically. Houses, and trees look like 
 they should and aren't kind of tiny looking, this however means that a whole lot of stuff blocks 
 your view and means you will constantly be having to move the camera like never before.
  Oh there are other issues, but I don't want to get into them all, and of course some might be fixed, 
 hiopefully, by future patches.
  Graphically the game is much better looking than the first game. Anybody who says differenet is 
 wrong. Is it as good as Oblivion? No. However what it makes up for in graphic prowess iy makes 
 up in the depth of the DnD system which makes Oblivion's open class system seem like childs play 
 since in effect classes are pretty much worthless. Here though,. they matter. and building an excellent 
 character is more of an art. It is by far more difficult to build a great character than most other 
 games, there is actually a strategy to it.
  The story, though I haven't played as far into it as much as I would have liked, seems much better 
 than NWN. Which was kind of bland. I can't comment on it too much though since I still have a ways 
 to go.
  The control is about the same,... except unresposive at times. I have seen times where my character 
 after killing an enemy doesn't move to attack the next and I have to manually move him myself or 
 he just stannd there and do nothing in attack position.
  I haven't experinced any of the hardware issues some people have wrote about, but they seem to 
 have a much more higher end system than I do. Soone when I have my new system up with Core2 Duo 
 and 8800GTX's I might be seeing it fiorst hand for myself though.
  The sound to me hasn't been mentioned in any review and I found that to be a disappointment as 
 it just seems to be nothing but recycled from NWN.
  I have not messed with the toolset much yet so I can't say much on it other than it appears to 
 be more difficult to figure out than the old one which was very easy except for the scripting. 
 But I'm glad it has it and I'm sure others will do just fine with it.
  I can't comment on the multiplaer aspect because i haven't tried it personaly though I heard it 
 was buggy from a friend. Which is huge dissapointment to hear since clearly multiplayer was the 
 biggest draw of the first game and what gave it such a long lifespan.
  Because NVN2 is a one of a kind game I am willing to look the other way and be patient for future 
 patches to fix many of the problems it ships with.
  If that happens this game will be for the most part at least as good as the old game, if not a 
 little better. But honestly it should have been that way out the box.
  However I want to rate the game as is and that being said I can't see this game as any higher than 
 what I gave striaght out the box. With future patches I could easily seeing it go up to an 8.0 
 or higher, but that remains to be seen. The game not horrible though but as a massive fan of the 
 original game and its expansions I was pretty upset with the state of the game as it shipped.
 
  It isn't often that I would reccomend a game on potential alone, but this is one, for now that 
 I would still tell people to buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SacrificiaLamb
Rating: 7.3
Date: Dec 27, 2006 3:42 pm PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying that the stock AI in this game is absolute garbage. You must download 
 this fan-made AI script found on the NWN2 Vault, right here:
  
  http://nwvault. ign. com/View. php? view=NWN2HakpaksOriginal. Detail&amp; id=11
  
  Without it, you'll 
 either be forced to control every single companion in puppet mode (direct control) , pausing the 
 game every 2 seconds in combat, or drive yourself insane watching the AI do the most idiotic things 
 imaginable, casting fireballs at their own feet, refusing to heal or buff their friends, or drinking 
 every potion in sight when there's no need. The list goes on.
  
  With this AI mod, the game's playability increases manyfold. It's like night and day. You can actually 
 leave your companions alone and they'll act reasonably intelligently - switching to melee weapons 
 when engaged, buffing/healing companions in a timely fashion, casting well-placed area-of-effect 
 spells as not to injure teammates, drinking potions only when needed, and using scrolls/wands with 
 some restraint. The path-finding is still bad though, and there's no help for it since it appears 
 to be hardcoded. He also has a 3.5 edition rules mod which is truer to the pen and paper version 
 and also fixes some bugs in skills/feats/spells. Right here:
  
  http://nwvault. ign. com/View. php? view=NWN2HakpaksOriginal. Detail&amp; id=6
  
  That out of the 
 way, this game still has its shortcomings, but ends up more than decent in the balance when the 
 characters, story and campaign length are taken into account. If I had to describe this game in 
 a few lines, I'd call it a cross between KotOR and the original NWN. The story and characters in 
 this one are not up to the level of KotOR, but are better than those found in NWN 1.
  
  On the upside we have:
  
  - Decent storyline (albeit a bit cliche, not surprisingly) with some 
 notably well-written and voiced characters, Sand, Khelgar, Ammon Jerro, and Bishop in particular. 
 The story itself, without giving much away, is nothing we all haven't seen before, and generally 
 speaking, there are no real surprises or twists along the way - it all ended the way I expected. 
 The Keep was an interesting addition, but in truth, doesn't add much to the game.
  
  - The primary characters are pretty well-developed overall, and the influence system gives you 
 an opportunity to explore a little more of their history/feelings through conversation. Influence 
 comes into play at various points in the game, where party members are given an opportunity to 
 defend or denounce you, and it certainly comes into play most strongly at the very end of the game. 
 Not a bad idea, but I often found myself catering to a party member's demands just to get positive 
 influence.
  
  - The voiceovers are good for the most part. A few, like the aforementioned Sand and Khelgar are 
 exceptional, and there were really only a few which I would consider bad (usually small roles anyway) . 
 The lip-synching is also tight. The cutscenes themselves are just like KotOR.
  
  - Long campaign. It should take more than 30 hours to complete this the first time through. Some 
 people may get 40+ hours out of it, so in terms of time spent, it's a good value, assuming you 
 actually like the game.
  
  - Spell effects look nice, maybe overdone by some peoples' tastes.
  
  
  
  On the downside 
 we have:
  
  - Graphics. They like normal mapping I guess. They even used it on the hair, which makes everyone 
 look like they're wearing shiny plastic hairpieces. It doesn't help that the hair isn't nearly 
 as dynamic (if at all) as it was in NWN 1 or KotOR, so everything looks very static. Artistically 
 speaking, this really isn't any better than KotOR. Some of the texture maps are small and look 
 muddy, even at a fair distance. Some rather noticeable cases of clipping can be found throughout 
 the game as well - teeth through lips, necks through armor, hair/beards through armor/bodies. Sometimes 
 there will be gaps in meshes, or untextured faces, like the inside of someone's mouth, which will 
 look invisible.
  
  - Graphics performance. Even with the performance increases achieved with the 1.03 patch, this 
 game still runs dog slow for what it's putting out in terms of beauty. On an 8800GTX at 1600x1200, 
 4xAA, there are times when the framerate drops into the 20s. Perfectly playable, but considering 
 the way the game looks, disappointing.
  
  - Animations. Probably the weakest point of the game as things stand and unlikely to change. Many 
 of the animations were taken straight from KotOR, including the penguin walk. Combat animations 
 are clunky with little variation, except for the monk, who actually has some nice moves. Sometimes 
 animations don't fire at all, and the character will stand there as you hear him grunt and the 
 roll occurs. This is especially true of polymorphed characters, as the standard attack animation 
 doesn't change speed even though the character is making 3 or 4 attacks in the meantime. Unlike 
 NWN 1, there is no circling and parrying going on, the 'dance of death' as some people call it. 
 In this game, the combatants are usually standing still between attacks, with the occasional duck/dodge 
 animation. Combat looked better in NWN 1, and while it wasn't 100% rules accurate, I still prefer 
 it over what I've seen in NWN 2.
  
  - Camera. You have to play with it a bit to get it working decently. I found that chase mode works 
 the best, but it's still awkward at times.
  
  - Linear gameplay. Yes, there are a lot of quests, but 90% of them are mandatory to the main story. 
 The side quests tend to be very short, like 5-10 minutes short. Party members' quests are longer 
 and may take 15-20 minutes to complete.
  
  - Small, linear maps. This is the same format as NWN 1 and KotOR, so this shouldn't be a surprise. 
 There is no free wandering as in TES (Morrowind, Oblivion) , or Gothic. You're confined to paths 
 between load zones, and most of the buildings cannot be entered (unless it's being used for a specific 
 quest) . There is virtually no interactivity with the environment (many chests and containers are 
 just scenery) . The walkmesh is effectively 2D, so it doesn't allow for multiple-level structures, 
 a bridge that can be walked over and under, for instance. In this game you can only do one or the 
 other, but not both.
  
  - Buggy. Some people haven't had any problems, others have had a terrible time. I had a fair number 
 of crashes, but none of them game-breaking. Usually the problems I had were related to having too 
 many summoned monsters going into a cutscene. Some skills/feats/spells are still broken or not 
 working as they should.
  
  - I like the idea of permadeath and limited resting. Instead they went with the KotOR method of 
 fallen party members getting up after combat, provided that at least one person survives the encounter. 
 This is my personal preference, some people may see it the other way.
  
  - Again a personal preference, but I would've liked to see a more adult-oriented story and characters, 
 with a little less corn.
  
  
  Not bad, not great. Just don't come to it with huge expectations. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: september_basic
Rating: 3.7
Date: Apr 16, 2007 6:12 am PT
Review:  This game is useless for D&amp; D enthusiasts, RPG computer game fans, and those who want to use 
 the Neverwinter Nights 2 toolset to create adventures. Unless it is the only game you own, you'll 
 probably dislike it.
  
  First of all, Neverwinter Nights 2 has few salient similarities with D&amp; D at all. The campaign 
 does not particularly seem like D&amp; D or Forgotten Realms, not traditionally nor does it add 
 anything interesting or nifty to the way the game is usually played.
  
  Also, most RPG fans are probably tired of the RPGs that are just fight after fight. FPS fans are 
 even getting tired of endless senseless battles and are turning to tactically structured games. 
 Fans of RPG are often growing fond of games such as Rome: Total War and Medieval 2: Total War or 
 the Sims 2 or MMO that permit players to structure their own game content experience.
  
  The toolset isn't sufficiently open to the casual user to permit fun and creative gaming except 
 by a minority elite of those whose professional and family lives permit alot of leisure without 
 much duty -- exceptions can exist where someone tries to prove a point, but the sad reality is, 
 this toolset is a ripoff with lazy and avaricious standard.
  
  The graphics and music alone are not sufficient reasons to buy this game unless you want to keep 
 these and wait five years to a decade for the copyrights to expire then use them to create your 
 own game. This is often done, either by permitting the game to be obtained and played for free 
 or by altering graphics and music content sufficiently to avoid strict lawsuit. By then, better 
 graphics and music will probably be standard though.
  
  Computer game companies make more money from less work than any other entertainment media category. 
 A music cd obtained for twenty bucks can last for years, whereas a computer game bought for sixty 
 bucks can be so tiresome a player loses interest in a week. Eventually consumers will tire of the 
 fake commerce and computer game companies will have to provide actual games for the real money 
 spent.
  
  Hopefully the people at Oblivion will notice that consumers are real people who deserve real entertainment 
 and start producing real entertainment instead of cheating people of their money, as they have 
 with this game.
  
  Best I can say is: Do Not Buy Obsidian Entertainment games! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mohamadelyafi
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 25, 2006 6:35 am PT
Review:  this review will be devided by different parts, let's start with graphics
  
  graphics: 8 out of 10: I am maybe too generous but it is hard to make this kind of game with better 
 graphics, the world is so big and immersive that it makes you forget the poor graphics. Spells 
 effects are awesome, i was impressed the first time when qara made a fireball or a druid summoned 
 a dire wolf. gamplay: 8 out of 10: the AI is infortunetely very poor, nor the enemies nor your 
 allies does the right thing in a situation. Your allies always use the same kind of attacks, even 
 if it is a spellcaster with a thousand spells, it will always use it favorite one times after times. 
 the camera is also bad, many kinds of mode but none which satisfied me. Luckily, the story is so 
 good that it compense for all these flaws.
  
  Sound: 10 out of 10: really good background music, many varianties, not annoying at long terms 
 such as many games (oblivion for example)
  
  Value: 10 out of 10: D&amp; D players such as myself will become addicted to this game quite fast, 
 the board game is represented perfectly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GenTom
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 24, 2006 6:54 am PT
Review:  The original Neverwinter Nights was an excellent role playing game based on the settings from the 
 board game, Dungeons and Dragons. Neverwinter Nights 2 has been a while coming and Im pleased 
 to say that it has been worth the wait for every fan of the first title. Once again the single 
 player part isnt all you have to play with, you also have the tools to build your own modules, 
 campaigns and quests for friends and other on the Internet.
  
  Returning to Neverwinter Nights was a great experience which is pretty lucky considering how high 
 everyones hopes were that it would be success. Why were the hopes high? Well firstly it is a sequel 
 to the best Dungeons and Dragons based license, 2nd it had the designers of some of the other fantastic 
 role playing games like Baldurs Gate and Planescape Torment. Im happy to say that overall the 
 game lives up to these hopes; firstly it has an excellent really enchanting story that is full 
 of characters, twists and turns.
  
  The original Neverwinter Nights had a good story, but it was never one that really made you want 
 to keep playing it through, Neverwinter Nights 2 is different, it manages to keep you interested 
 throughout the 50 hour long campaign, this is something the developers should be proud of as not 
 many games even last 50 hours these days, let alone keep you enthralled. You start the game by 
 creating your character. You pick the race, subrace, appearance, class, moral alignment and finally 
 the voice for them. Once you have done this the story begins, you start off as a young man trying 
 to impress his step-father, the story starts off slowly, building up early on after an early attack 
 on your home village. I wont spoil anymore of the story for you, but suffice to say, there will 
 be a lot of combat, dialogue and exploring to do.
  
  Neverwinter Nights 2 also requires you to make various choices during the game, these are mostly 
 dialogue pieces, you choose what to say, how to say it and whether you want to be good or bad. 
 This means you can lie, threaten or just ask a simple question to try and get responses out of 
 people. The dialogue is very well written throughout the game and I genuinely cant remember a 
 moment when I wanted to skip past any of it.
  
  The other good part of the game is that you dont only have to follow the main story arc, there 
 are lots of little side quests to do. There is also a lot of interesting dialogue too that helps 
 you understand your fellow sidekicks and characters, though you dont have to listen to everything 
 they have to say if you dont want to, you can choose what to ask.
  
  As with other role playing titles, you dont have to play as just your one character, there are 
 a lot of others who will join your party along the way. All you have to do to control them is to 
 click on their picture in the top right. They dont just help you fight either; they can be wizards, 
 fighters, thieves, ranges and more.
  
  You will use their skills to take on all kinds of enemies during the game as well as unlocking 
 chests and disabling traps. While most of the game can be played in real time, you also have the 
 option of pausing the game by pressing space, this allows you to assign orders to your party, be 
 it fighting, spells or whatever. This is something I did a lot of the time, as it was much easier 
 to organise who you wanted each of your party to attack while paused than it is in the heat of 
 the battle.
  
  The AI itself is good most of the time, but there is the odd occasion when it doesnt do what you 
 hope it would, sometimes as you are running around you would expect your partner to be close by, 
 but sometimes he can be miles back lost or stuck or will sometimes just freeze, this can get very 
 annoying in the middle of a battle. The good news is that the developers are patching the game, 
 and the latest patch as made quite a difference in general.
  
  As I mentioned earlier, there are loads of quests in the game, the quests range from delivering 
 certain items to saving people and answering riddles and once again you dont have to complete 
 them all to complete the main part of the game. When you complete quests or kill enemies you gain 
 experience points, from here you can advance levels. When you gain a level you can use the points 
 you have earned to develop skills such as strength and intelligence or learn new spells.
  
  As with every other role playing game under the sun, Neverwinter Nights 2 has a lot of looting. 
 You can collect gold, treasure, weapons and armour along with spells and such like. You can also 
 sell things along the way to gain more gold to purchase items. The game also has the option of 
 letting you collect ingredients and use them to create items.
  
  I found that generally the user interface was quite easy to use, although for items it was a real 
 pain as it has no option to let you arrange items by type, this means going through each item individually 
 to try and find out what it does and instead of doing a hover style system with items stats, you 
 have to right click on them and then select examine but this then means you cant compare items 
 either.
  
  I have to say that I am not into Dungeons and Dragons board games, or any board game for that matter, 
 so hearing that games are based on a dice throwing system gets me confused, but Im pleased to 
 say that overall It was pretty easy to understand, I just went with bigger numbers are best, that 
 seemed to work for me! In all fairness, the developers have made it easier for simple gamers like 
 me to understand the rules and fans of the board games will feel at ease right away.
  
  You can play Neverwinter Nights 2 in multiplayer modes as well, either over the internet or via 
 your network, it can be played with up to three other players to form a party of four. You can 
 also play the single-player game cooperatively; this is a real plus point as I love playing proper 
 story games with friends. The in-game browser makes it very easy to setup an account and find games 
 to play or set one up yourself. The big selling point of Neverwinter Nights 2 will once again be 
 that you can create your own game, it includes a fantastic editor program that allows you to really 
 create some great games. If you have the time it is well worth playing with and once again I am 
 sure in a few months time there will be some excellent game modules out online and I for once cant 
 wait to play some of them.
  
  I have pretty much been praising the game since I started the review, but now its time for me to 
 mention some of the bad parts, first off the game has a few technical problems mostly performance 
 related. While the game looks pretty good for the most part, there are some speed problems, the 
 game can get jerky at points when it really shouldnt when there is little action on screen. Also 
 the excellent cutscenes are let down by some very poor clipping, I mean Ive never ever seen a 
 dwarfs beard disappear into armour before. Dont get me wrong though, I feel that that the game 
 looks very good with some great designs and artwork and some excellent spell effects. The game 
 has also been patched a few times since its release which has improved it somewhat. The game camera 
 can also be a real pain too, just when you think that you have set it up perfectly when fighting 
 outdoors, you have to move inside a building, the camera doesnt adjust itself and more often than 
 not you are unable to see anything that is going on without once again adjusting the camera.
  
  Sound though is excellent throughout the game, the voice work from the main characters is superb 
 and probably some of the best I have heard in a game for some time. Also it is worth me mentioning 
 just how good the music is, it fits the game perfectly and as a fan of the original you can hear 
 some very similar sound styles which really pleased me.
  
  One final note is that the game is one of the few out right now that works perfectly well on Windows 
 Vista (assuming your video drivers do!) and it even installs its own place in the Games Explorer 
 so you can get easy access to updates and web links as well as seeing what performance you should 
 be expected (or is that hoping?) for the game.
  
  Overall I loved Neverwinter Nights 2, not just for the single player game but also for the extensive 
 multiplayer parts. The game has an excellent story and some very good quests. The game is also 
 very long, not just in Single player either, with the fact that you can create new stories and 
 quests it means the game will last months to come. Yes it has a few performance problems, but unlike 
 a game like Dark Messiah, these are very easy to look over and are getting fixed at a good pace 
 through patches. Its an excellent game and no Role playing fan should be without it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xgyuri
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 23, 2006 1:17 pm PT
Review:  Neverwinter Nights start a boring beginning (but we can skip) and after we trap in the atmosphere 
 of NWN2 (it's great)
  The storyline is good, but for me is hard to understand some things!
  
  The Graphic is average, but the effects are as good as they can be in this graphical level.
 
  AI is not too bright but good enough to get the game to hard in the end of the Act 1.
  Sounds are Good, and an excellent work, but I find a lot of sound problems, but I suppose the patches 
 are fix the problem!!
  
  Neverwinter Nights 2 is a very good game, and try it! because is worth it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jrenton2004
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 21, 2006 4:33 pm PT
Review:  Neverwinter Nights 2 continues the high standard set by its predecessor in creating highly detailed 
 party based RPGs. The storyline has great depth, which the player really feels they are participating 
 in.
  
  Pros. Game depth &amp; immersion, versatility with characters and choices available in battle. 
 NPC voice &amp; character acting.
  
  Cons. Mainly minor ones. Difficultly maintaining characters formation during battle. Items can 
 vanish sometimes when transferring them between party members. Some decisions that bring the primary 
 character towards lawful or chaotic cant be determined until after the choice is made (eg: At 
 one point in the game the player is given the choice whether to send a group of guards to his uncles 
 tavern for a drink, considered a chaotic act, as doing so doesnt mean more money for his uncle 
 but means the guards are going to be rowdy instead, a fact not known til after the choice is made.)
 
  
  Graphics.
  Are top-notch and dont require the latest and greatest hardware to achieve this. Its something 
 noticed throughout the game, from the rich level of detail of building interiors, to the diversity 
 of locations, even to the in game lip sync which is right on. The opening intro also deserves a 
 mention. The interface is quick &amp; easy to use once the player becomes accustomed to it. There 
 are also a number of options to allow shortcuts set-up for casting spells &amp; using abilities. 
 Sound.
  Very well done. The voice acting is superb, too often a game is put together with no thought to 
 the voice interaction (or the developers use the same voice for too many characters &amp; lose 
 the immersion quality) . Spell effects have great variety, the player can almost feel the impact 
 of those magic missiles as they hit an enemy NPCs.
  
  Game-play.
  Has been well thought out, with it having a very similar feel to its predecessor. The character 
 kits &amp; levelling recommendations all exist as previously. Party members have behaviour options 
 to control how they re-act in battle, however its recommended these are disabled and each party 
 member is controlled directly (ie: enable puppet mode) , as the default behaviour can be not what 
 the player wants (eg: the partys Druid often used for healing transforms herself into an animal 
 to fight, but of course now cant heal anyone) , possibly not a problem on the games easier level 
 settings, but on the more difficult ones full character control is the way to go. Inventory is 
 standard with each character carrying as much as their strength allows them to. Characters can 
 still move when over-encumbered, just not very quickly. Party formation is virtually pre-defined, 
 with the initial characters joining the party being the standard warrior, healer, spell caster 
 &amp; rogue. Party size is limited to 4, not sure if this changes later in the game, but would 
 be good to have another fighter up front. Fights can at times be frustrating, with enemy NPCs 
 going after certain characters and not much can be done, ie: slowing/disabling spells would often 
 fail. (This maybe attributed to the reviewer being in-experienced with these types of games.)
 
  
  Overall.
  A great game and one that the reviewer will try and play to completion. Recommended for anyone 
 who wants a game that doesnt take one or two sittings to finish. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BLTom5
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 21, 2006 1:32 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing (A) D&amp; D PC games for over ten years. This is a solid one. I loved the old 
 goldbox games, and when Baldur's Gate first came out, I was absolutely ecstatic. My hand was glued 
 to my mouse for a week or so. I thought BG II was excellent; the character development was (is!) 
 fantastic, the plot was intriguing, the dialogue was well written, and the pace was just right. 
 Personally, I found the Icewind Dale series a little too weak in the roleplaying aspect, but I 
 knew when I bought them that they were intended to be hack-n-slashers, and they were fun enough 
 to tear through. And of course there was Planescape: Torment, with its emphasis on (gasp!) the 
 *story*, which was outstanding.
  
  Neverwinter Nights I had a pretty weak single player campaign. The dialogue was shallow, the voice-acting 
 a little corny, and the roleplaying experience rather tepid. Obviously, its strength was in the 
 toolkit. Unfortunately, most people don't have the time and energy to create a module as deep as 
 the campaign in, say, BGII. The resources just aren't there. So in NN I, I ended up playing a bunch 
 of little modules that weren't immersive, even if they were pleasantly diverting.
  
  Now comes NN II. The single player campaign is nice and meaty. As one earlier reviewer put it, 
 it's a lot like the BG series. What I don't understand is how that could possibly be considered 
 a drawback! The plot is interesting, the characters fairly deep, the quests varied, and unlike 
 Oblivion (which certainly has its own strengths) , my character actually gets to *say things.*
 
  
  The comparisons to Oblivion are inevitable. Oblivion is a great game, but I can't really put it 
 on a pedestal as an ideal RPG, because there just isn't a lot of roleplaying. Sure, you can choose 
 between sneaking or fighting your way to your goal, but my character has no voice, no identity, 
 no ... character!
  
  NN II solves that problem by taking several pages out of the BG book. I actually get to insult 
 people. Of course the dialogue options are limited, but it is, after all, a *computer* roleplaying 
 game, and you can only program so many stems of a dialogue tree. The point is that instead of having 
 to choose between two poorly-written, wooden lines to deliver, I get to sound like a real (if fictional) 
 *person*.
  
  If I have a real complaint about NN II, it's the AI. The characters do not react to some commands; 
 and you can't queue up a bunch of actions as in NN I. I'd much prefer a selection/command system 
 that mimics BG, with a more efficient AI and more options for character behavior. It's a big shame 
 the AI isn't better, but with the ability -- or even the need -- to pause frequently during combat 
 (much like a pen-and-paper game with real-life constraints) , this drawback loses some of its bite. 
 Moving on to the graphics, I can't see what all the fuss is about. The game itself looks decent 
 on my upper-end system. I know that not everyone has a cutting edge PC, but what boggles me is 
 the number of people that claim they can run Oblivion with all the bells and whistles, but not 
 NN II. I haven't had that problem at all. In fact, I think NN II runs even a little better on my 
 system! It's possible that I just lucked out and randomly came up with an ideal constellation of 
 hardware to run NN II; in any event, the game looks and runs great on at least this system.
  
  The camera hasn't been an issue for me, either. I suspect that a lot of the complaints about 
 the camera come from the desire to use the chase mode (I can't recall if that's the term used in 
 the game) . I find that zooming out and using the mouse to scan around while my character heads 
 to his target does the job just fine. In fact, I like the camera freedom a lot more than the ugly 
 camera in NN I. The sound is terrific. I don't have much to add to the GS review there. The voices 
 are generally very well done. At least one of the NPC party members is a little too whiny for me, 
 but hey, that's immersive roleplaying for you! It sure beats the wooden, distant delivery of the 
 Obsidian characters. (I didn't really intend to rag on Oblivion; it's a great game, but I still 
 think of it more as a fantasy-themed action-adventure game than as a deep RPG) . The music, as GS 
 reports, is fitting and dramatic without being corny. Same goes for the sound effects.
  
  The multiplayer/toolkit features of NN II are beyond my analysis at this point. I'm waiting for 
 more modules to be produced. I'm sure that, as was the case with NN I, there will be good ones 
 as well as buggy or dull ones. In conclusion, if you dig the BG series, you'll like NN II. It's 
 well worth the price if you've got a newer system and are into the whole pause-deliver-commands-unpause 
 combat system. (For those of us who enjoyed, say, Fallout, with its turn-based system, this is 
 not a problem at all.) If your system is a little slower, it sounds like you might have framerate 
 issues, and that's never fun, but with solid RPGs like this one, the focus is on roleplaying more 
 than incredibly sexy hyper combat action. That's never been what D&amp; D has been about, and that 
 principle has got to be at the core of any review of a D&amp; D CRPG. Because of the good-to-great 
 depth of the roleplaying experience in NN II, and the easy-on-the-eyes presentation, it's worth 
 picking up for anyone that loves the great lineage of D&amp; D games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Antinate
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 20, 2006 8:03 pm PT
Review:  First off, if you're one of the watered down people who only plays hack and slash games, World 
 of Warcraft, Diablo, Oblivion, Doom, Half-Life, and especially Counter Strike... then no. This 
 game is not for you. Please take this note to heart and don't say I didn't warn you when you slap 
 a couple of horribly-written words together and call it a review.
  
  We all remember Neverwinter Nights 1 when it was first released, right? At this end, the game would 
 crash every few minutes and we were stuck with the Official Campaign, and a few quickly whipped-up 
 not-to-be-taken-seriously modules. Well, Bioware managed to fix up the crashes, and the community 
 slowly developed, got all its custom content pulled out, and some great modules were released.
 
  
  It's absurd to think that NWN1 is better than 2 simply because of this. The game was released not 
 long ago, the toolset is much more complicated, and it will (as always) take time to get some of 
 the custom content developed.
  
  And, like Neverwinter Nights 1, the custom content is where this game will shine. NWN1 was kept 
 alive solely because of the toolset it was shipped with, as will be the same with NWN2. (Don't 
 get me wrong, the NWN2 OC is much better than NWN1's.) When picking up this game, expect it to 
 be more like a Toolset you're buying.
  
  Compared to games like, say, World of Warcraft, yes, this game might not run as smooth, you won't 
 run around mashing 2-4 buttons repeatedly, and you won't just run around, click on NPCs, go out 
 on a glorified grind, and come back thinking that it was fun. Please see my note about Hack &amp; 
 Slash games being thataway. ----&gt;
  
  If you like roleplaying, tactical games, adventure, and especially custom content, then this is 
 the game for you. If you only like running around button mashing on mobs and spending 5-6 hours 
 a day just so that a piece of your armor set will drop, then no, this isn't the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Foxwalker
Rating: 2.6
Date: Dec 19, 2006 11:24 am PT
Review:  A really great Role Play Game should have an open ended feel to it. We know we have to get from 
 one end of the game to the other, but really guys, you should not feel as if you are being pushed 
 through the game. Artfully arranging the map icons does not count. Oblivion has been out for a 
 while. Check it out. An RPG game world should be a world, not a stage set. The NWN2 game world 
 needs a lot of work. Really. NWN1 had more buildings you could enter, more chests you could open. 
 Treasure was more variable. Why not make every house enterable? At least in NWN1 the merchants 
 had an enterable business locations. Have all the vendors suddenly gotten poor?
  
  Character interactions should be more open-ended. You should be able to talk to anyone. The AI 
 should be much smarter. NWN1 characters could at lease remember to switch from ranged to melee 
 weapons, I have not seen any of my comrades do this in NWN2 yet. Some of the actions they take 
 seem random. Even after broadcasting to everyone to not move the thief still runs forward to disarm 
 a trap after you open a door. In games like Quake 4 and Far Cry, enemies circle around and flank 
 you, duck behind corners and such change from guns to throwing grenades. After seeing how smart 
 an AI can be, I have come to expect more.
  
  In Deus Ex and System Shock they introduced the idea that in an RPG you could solve the same problem 
 in a variety of ways. Sneaking and talking or going around the back way should be options. In summery 
 I find that NWN2 actually takes a step or 2 back from NWN1 with expansions. Adding races and classes 
 and taking away character options is not a gain. Adding party members but making them too stupid 
 to live is not a net gain. With all the recent advances in AI, Game engines and mechanics I have 
 come to expect a lot more from the next generation RPG that this delivered. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: avonlea
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 17, 2006 5:31 pm PT
Review:  Well.. I've played it through, and it took up a good two weeks of evenings, so here are my thoughts.
 
  
  For all those who played NWN and loved it, then this is what you have been waiting for. It's NWN 
 with uprated graphics, uprated spell effects and v3.5 rules. Likes (taking it above 8 on the review 
 score) : It gives you a solid amount of gaming, and leaves the door open for future sequels to the 
 storyline. Personally, I don't have a problem with this, but then I am enjoying R. R. Martin and 
 Robert Jordan's epic book series at the moment, and that is exactly what happens here.
  I found the newer user interface easier to use in quick battle situations over the old cyclic system.
 
  The graphics are considerably better, and the spell effects are excellent.
  The party system allows greater scope in building an effective team to complete tasks. There is 
 good interaction amongst the NPC's although it could have been a bit better in the actual character 
 romance front, which appeared to be a bit of an afterthought.
  
  Annoyances (keeping it below 9 on the review score) :
  Ultimately, any RPG that introduces alignment, 
 but then has a defined path that you need to take is going to introduce frustrating choices where 
 you just can't take your character where it wants to go. Chapter 1 allows you a choice. Chapters 
 2 and 3 don't. It is probably better to limit down the overall choices, then add depth to the dialog 
 and NPC options.
  There are some aspects to the game that should be on the interface but aren't, for example, Influence 
 . Using a hack to access information integral to the plot-lines is not acceptable.
  There are aspects of the interface that appear to have stagnated since NWN and haven't taken improvements 
 added into other games (e. g. Inventory could have a sort feature like in Dungeon Siege; Journal 
 could have an active quest like in Oblivion, tied to the map, showing where you need to go) . Also 
 the large map is virtually useless, as you can't tell your characters to move to a point on the 
 map.
  Finally, the sound and music is the same as NWN. If this was done for continuance , then fine, 
 but you do expect something different when you buy a game 4 years on from the original.
  
  Overall a great game, but it could have been better, and I wonder if an extra 3-4 months development 
 wouldn't have gone amiss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Odin945
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 16, 2006 7:57 pm PT
Review:  Never Winter Nights is pretty good, its like (as using an example of similarity in DnD) Final Fantasy 
 12, or Knights of the old republic (loose examples) . If your not familiar with any of these its 
 basically, you choose to attack a creature, and you and your team mates will attack it. Now here 
 you can micro manage, as in you can pause the game, go to your mage character, tell them what you 
 would like to do- such as cast a particular spell, or spells (in a row) , go to a different character, 
 tell them what to do, then go back to your own character and unpause the game. I personally really 
 like this type combat, but some people find it dull and hard to get into. At first I really enjoyed 
 this game, but then the story became a little... linear (I shall not give anything away about this, 
 and some people may or may not even agree with me)
  
  The Graphics are wonderful (no doubt) , and now that it has been patched a couple of times it runs 
 pretty smoothly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homes225
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 13, 2006 5:15 pm PT
Review:  Neverwinter Nights that came out in 2002 was a great RPG and is still played today thanks to addons 
 and player created mods. Now after 4 years the sequel is out and is a worthy game to its predecessor. 
 You start out by customizing your character into many details such as race, sign, appearence, and 
 master class. The whole game uses D&amp; D rules and is the game that sticks close to them the most 
 of all the D&amp; D RPGs. After you jump into the story you will notice the average looking player 
 models but the spells and attacks look amazing. The story in NWN 2 is very interesting and is fun 
 to follow but sometimes it gets bland and you can be sidetracked. While NWN2 is such a pretty and 
 good game it requires a higher end PC which also leads to many crashes in gameplay and while saving. 
 Online/LAN gameplay is pretty much the story but with your friends not dead minded NPCs which is 
 a great addition. As with NWN there is and continues to be a lot of player content released which 
 is a nice thing once you beat the 20-30 hour single player experience. Even after you play through 
 single player you will still get a kick out of replaying it and sharing this great RPG with your 
 friends online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skennedy8
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 13, 2006 6:26 am PT
Review:  Ah, the return to Neverwinter, how we've anticipated this game. First let me say that the game 
 delivers all that it should it term of being a faithful D&amp; D 3.5 role-playing game. The story, 
 while not prize-winning stuff, if certainly sufficient to keep you playing and hoping to discover 
 more of the plot and the characters.
  
  Graphics are a bit disappointing, and that coupled with the horrible camera detracts somewhat from 
 the enjoyment and immersion in the game. Navigation is town with the camera constantly being occluded 
 by buildings is a maddening experience! There are also some bugs in the game that will require 
 more than a few patches to work out. I can't really blame Obsidian here as there is really no way 
 to plan for every possible action when the game offers so many choices.
  
  The last work and my tilt on the game as a role-playing aficionado that this game, with some flaws, 
 is worth playing and with give hours of enjoyment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slunks
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 17, 2006 2:49 pm PT
Review:  Let's face it, game sequels come out all the time. No matter if it's the twentieth game in its 
 series or the second. Either or, it always has to one up it's predecessor. Neverwinter Nights 2 
 is finally here after its long awaited arrival. It includes an epic new and lengthy story along 
 with its revised third addition of rules, also known as D&amp; D 3.5. But does the game offer enough 
 new content to be a completely new entry to the series?
  
  If we had to explain Neverwinter Nights 2 is some weird, unnecessary analogy. It would be that 
 it's a pi&ntilde; ata at a birthday party. While inviting, the machete is replaced with concrete 
 and you only have a twig to break through it. With that said, this game certainly does have its 
 fair share of bugs, glitches and over the top system requirements for what the rewritten graphics 
 engine actually offers as eye candy. As a matter of fact, unless you fall into the small lucky 
 bunch of people who don't experience the games frame rate issues, you can expect to have a frustrating 
 time experiencing the games overall choppyness. Even if you have your settings on the lowest of 
 low while running on a great video card and PC overall.
  
  It's not that you'll experience this particular problem all of the time though, it seems to be 
 reported as having trouble either outside or inside, never both. Whether or not you experience 
 this common problem. There are other problems you'll encounter no matter how hard you try to get 
 around it. Simply put, there are camera issues. Although there are four camera settings to choose 
 from, all of them result in the same problematic way. While you can have the camera in the traditional 
 birds eye view. It will often get hard to click on certain NPCs, items, doors and other clickable 
 things.
  
  The optional third person camera also does not follow which way you face until you decide to move. 
 And chances are when you do move the camera view is going to be interrupted by a weapon rack in 
 the way, shoved up close by a building or just thrown off the map and into the back of cave walls 
 entirely. It truly feels like work to manage the camera all the way from start to finish of this 
 lengthy epic.
  
  There is a bright side to find though. While the games new edition of rules keeps the true D&amp; D 
 fans happy, it also has a nice cast of characters that you'll be finding yourself fighting with. 
 Whether it's a dwarf whose hell bent on fighting, or a sorcerer that just wants more power. These 
 characters have great, individual personalities. You'll want to care about which characters have 
 a high influence on you. You see, the more things you say or do that certain party members agree 
 with. The more of a relationship you gain with them. This is known as influence. With this you 
 can learn more about the characters background story and it may even play a major role later in 
 the game.
  
  Along with this, you'll be going to different areas of this world. The story of the game is generally 
 pretty well done. It's definitely not a short experience. Including side quests, it was clocking 
 in at around fifty hours to complete. And after you're done with this campaign, there are the online 
 features that made the original Neverwinter Nights such a standout from the rest. Although it is 
 more of the same, it is pretty fun to go around with your friends and going through the campaign. 
 Although it does have certain issues such as when a friend chats with an NPC, it stops what everybody 
 else doing in the party as well. Usually leads to your friends yelling at each other to stop talking 
 or to end the conversation.
  
  However alike it's predecessor, there are plenty of custom user made maps to play on. The game 
 has an extremely good toolset, while intimidating to learn it has a lot to offer and can do pretty 
 much of everything you'd imagine. Again like its previous installment, It seems more or so that 
 online was meant for this, instead of the original co-op play. With this toolset along with more 
 than enough time on your hands, you'll be able to create and play on you're very own campaign, 
 as well as others.
  
  But with all this good, comes with only worse. It comes with almost to much of reused sound effects, 
 music and character voices from the original. As well as a not so impressive character creation 
 system. Sure there are many classes and races to choose from, but when it comes to changing your 
 facial features and hair styles, it comes off rather straight forward and its boundaries doesn't 
 seem stretched enough as well as it could be. Other then the few decent choices you'll have, the 
 rest of the options you'll have come off rather bizarre and unattractive.
  
  As you experience your daily dose of bugs about the game, one of the main problems about the campaign 
 experience is the A. I of your party members during the game is almost mind numbingly frustrating. 
 Your party members may have a great personality, but that obviously doesn't prevent them from getting 
 stuck and random places, not joining in on battles or just running off and about towards an enemy 
 far away only to get your entire party into a tough situation.
  
  Although you could just turn off the AI completely and micromanage every character in your party 
 by pausing, issuing orders and then unpausing. But where's the fun in that? Either way you will 
 be switch between characters to get them to catch up with you. It not even that they get stuck 
 on actual parts of the game, they will just randomly stop in the middle of a wide-open area and 
 stop moving all together. This will literally get your character killed time after time when you 
 charge into a room full of hard hitting baddies only to discover that your entire party is in the 
 room behind you. Y'know... just hanging out.
  
  Neverwinter Nights 2 has something there, it will have it's fun moments. It's not easy to live 
 up to a game that did so well. You'd love to enjoy this game, but you'll always have problems getting 
 in the way of the actual gameplay. While more of the same, it invites you with an entertaining 
 story and well-done characters. However it weakens that experience you loved so much with its horrible 
 camera, dumb A. I, frame rate issues and mostly reused music and sound effects. Overall the game 
 just feels rushed and is almost more or so a task to play. Perhaps we're only a few patches from 
 getting away of all of this. But it surely shouldn't have been released as soon as it did.
  
  The Pro's
  +characters personality's
  +story is well done
  +has a true D&amp; D feel to 
 it
  +lengthy singleplayer experience
  +influence system
  +awesome toolset
  
  The Con's
  -no camera angles really work
  -dumb witted A. I
  -frame rate issues
  -character 
 design has some faults
  -too many reused sounds from it's original
  -has a feeling that it's more of a task to play
  
  Recommended as: Diehard fans of the original 
 and D&amp; D altogether still may want to take a peak, everyone else should wait awhile.
  
  -William Slunks Boso, Helmgames. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kronblom71
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 12, 2006 3:16 pm PT
Review:  It is all about patience and the ability to realy love this kind of old-fashioned RPG - because 
 this review is done with the game finished and with the final 1.03 patch installed, so I could 
 give this game a real fair sentence. I did not really, really like NWN 1 (the henchmen with their 
 bleak personalities and a rather poor campaign) - though I did not try out the multiplayer nor 
 the expansions. But in this kind of games I solely search for a good single-player experience, 
 and the expansions is rarely better than the original so...
  
  The game starts out slow in an backwater village (as usual) and the first part of the game serves 
 as an tutorial (and not a very flashy one, but serves is purpose) . But, already in the beginning 
 one can tell that the game&acute; s system optimations is not all well. Even with the latest patch 
 and with most shadow-effects turned off the frame rate is rather poor at times. And I think that 
 this is what have turned off most people from enjoying this game. And that is a shame.
  Because the more you play and the deeper you trek into the well-written campaign, the more you 
 learn to really like this game.
  
  For me the best part off NWN 2 is the big gallery of characters you meet - and of course that you 
 can take along a lot more companions now on your quest to glory (just like in Baldur&acute; s Gate) , 
 with their own history and sub-quests.
  
  Technically, this game has it&acute; s flaws and the loading times can be an outright PAIN sometimes 
 (I have heard tales of this game having an quicksave - though it does not work for me for some 
 reason - but without an quickload it is somewhat useless anyway) . However, this cannot chrush the 
 pure enjoyment I got from playing this game and for the first time since BG 2 I did in fact take 
 some days off from work just to play :o 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lawrencevanrijn
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 11, 2006 5:22 pm PT
Review:  I am a total Neverwinter nights nut, so take my word for it, there will be no bias here ;-) .
  
  There are a few sides to this game that did change to the effect that i had to sit back and 
 consider and shape my thoughts. The game seems to have made an excellent step forward (1 exception) 
 and also the gameplay has changed. From the 1 player with aid, there is now a 4 player option and 
 each has its own idea's on what is best. It feel in that regard to fall into the Ultima game group. 
 2 fighters a cleric and a wizard. Still, it is nice to play this way, as this game will come with 
 it's own ghosts to fight. The most remarkable is magic combat. Spels can have an area effect and 
 a running opponent could escape the blast at that time. This is great news. The game has a few 
 non-likeble sides, but there are just changes from the old to the new.
  
  My worry is two sided. The beginning of the game (even after the introduction) is far too linear. 
 The first game was less like that and was a lot more entertaining that way. Then there is the travel 
 appoach. This is more from Baldurs gate and not a bad way to go about it, but it actually seems 
 to emphasize liniarity of the game. The only truly nagging part was that not all the music is new. 
 i heard a few too many familiar tunes. too bad i reckon. Add to this that too many background sounds 
 were poorly chosen, and should have been linked to changes in the game, wehich does not happen. 
 It makes for a disturbing misalignment.
  
  All this adding do still make an excellent RPG game and one, with a few expansions will emerge 
 from the shadows of his father. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: estraka
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 9, 2006 10:20 pm PT
Review:  I just finished this game, and I have to say it's one of the best RPG's ever! The story is great, 
 with many twists that keeps you interested. The performance on my rig was good, however I can understand 
 some of the other people's frustrations. In large battle there is a lot of slowdown, and the camera 
 angle does suck. The most recent patch addresses some of the issues though. Many people compare 
 this game to Oblivion, another blockbuster RPG hit. I liked them both, however I never finished 
 Oblivion because the world was too expansive and there was not enough character development or 
 interesting gear to find. NWN2, however, is a very story driven game with a lot of character develpment 
 and very well drawn out NPC's inhabiting the world. Although not as expansive as oblivion, it makes 
 it so that you are kept you focused on the story rather than exploring, making the player feel 
 much more fulfilled in the journey.
  Saving and loading areas are a bit of a drag, and the graphics are not at par with other RPGs on 
 the market. However, I don't judge games by its flash, but am more focused on the content.
  Although I spent over 80 hours on the game, I wished that it didn't end so soon. If you enjoy RPG's 
 because you enjoy the story, character development and a world of fantasy, you'll love this! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Algolagnia
Rating: 6.2
Date: Dec 17, 2006 4:50 am PT
Review:  If you liked the original but not Baldur's Gate, Icewind Dale, etc then you'll hate the game. It's 
 nothing like Neverwinter Nights except the skills, classes, etc. It might as well be called BG 
 3, because it's definately not Neverwinter Nights. Though it does excel in being a BG clone, it 
 just lacks the fluidity of the real time from NwN.
  
  Expect to miss alot more than in the original game also, even with 18+ in a stat and +1 weapons 
 starting out you can't hit worth a damn. Ranged weapons early on are useless, even with +1 weapons, 
 and ammunition they rarely go through the damage reduction most creature's seem to have. When they 
 do it's only 1-4 dmg, 6 if you're really lucky (using a heavy crossbow) .
  
  As for graphics, my system is capable of running Oblivion on high settings with very little lag 
 yet when I run this game on high settings my character skips walking animations, etc and conversation 
 options display slowly. I spent fifteen minutes finding the right mixture to provide decent graphics, 
 and gameplay as the Very High settings it auto detected slowed it down horribly.
  
  Overall it's a disappointment for $50 bucks, it's not a worthy sequel to Neverwinter Nights in 
 the least. It doesn't help that the original copy I had possessed an uncut manual (I had to cut 
 the pages apart myself along the top and bottom) , and the original DVD wasn't even fully imprinted 
 to the edge of the disc and wouldn't read. Shoddy workmanship on the production line, extreme drift 
 from the NwN gameplay, and slowed gameplay on very high settings make this more of a waste of money 
 right now than a viable game option. Wait till the price drops is my advice, otherwise you'll feel 
 cheated. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tsprague1
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 8, 2006 10:19 pm PT
Review:  In the new Neverwinter Nights 2, the graphics are great and the game is interesting. If you run 
 a good gaming machine you shouldn't have many problems with this game. Unfortunately, I am running 
 this on an HP Pavillion laptop, with a Mobile AMD Sempron Processor 3000+, 1.7 Ghz and 1 Gig of 
 memory. This means that while I can load and play the game at it's full capacity, it is very, very 
 slow doing so. Turning off the shadows, the number of lights per character, and all of the great 
 graphic doo-dads (that's a technical term ) I get a game that is fun and pretty interesting, but 
 it's still slow to respond to the mouse or the keyboard.
  
  The designers used the last Neverwinter Nights game as references to this one. You will find that 
 characters tell you about the different districts in Neverwinter, as a lot of what happened in 
 the original is now history in this sequel. I wish though, that the interface hadn't changed quite 
 so much, and that it wasn't such a memory and processor hog. It really makes the game slow down 
 quite a bit. The storyline is interesting and I find myself wondering what will happen next (that's 
 usually a good sign) . I feel that there are too many automatic scenes. I prefer to get my information 
 quickly and let me play. Because my system is so slow (for this game) the automatic scenes seem 
 to take a long time, and you tend to go from them to action very quickly, with not much warning. 
 It would be nice if the game designers stopped using all of the computers resources when designing 
 the games. Most of us can't afford to upgrade our hardware as often as the designers seem to think 
 that we need to. As a Grandma who has been using computers, and playing games on them, long before 
 Windows came around, this is a game worth buying, just make sure that your computer can handle 
 the amount of resources that it needs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hardolaf
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 8, 2006 9:10 pm PT
Review:  The game although better in many aspects than Neverwinter Nights, it has much to be desired that 
 was in Neverwinter Nights that includes smooth gameplay, and complex scripting. with many bugs 
 and other things in the game, a good few patches should make the Official Campaign better, but 
 not much else. Should Obsidian ever feel like patching the game, many more people would buy it. 
 Finally the OC had much to be desired and could have been much much better in the way of story, 
 many people believe, as do I that it was rushed. This makes the game both addicting, but also it 
 gives a bad reputation to the game, perhaps they will patch it and my review will be obsolete but 
 until they fix it this shall be here for all to read, maybe they will read it, maybe they will 
 not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davez82
Rating: 3.9
Date: Dec 8, 2006 1:24 pm PT
Review:  If you liked nwn1, like me, you probably will appreciate some of what the game has to offer. But 
 to put it bluntly, this game was horribly made, mind you it wasnt made by the same people who did 
 nwn1, this is made by obsidian, not bioware. I can stand bad camera angels, bad leveling system, 
 bad controls but it comes down to it, this game was made blindfolded. Unless you got a 8800gtx 
 dont get this game, i dont even think a 8800gtx can run this game well, thats how bad it is made. 
 You can probably find the 10 page thread about how bad this game performs at the nwn2 website forums. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SadExchange
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 8, 2006 6:34 am PT
Review:  Finally releasing itself onto store shelves on November 7th of 2006, after a short delay, the predecessor 
 to Neverwinter Nights and its respective expansions tries to build on what made the first game 
 so great, including a good storyline, great gameplay, nice graphics, and the overall sound of the 
 game, but could it happen? While the first Neverwinter was developed by the all-powerful Bioware, 
 Obsidian Entertainment helmed the development of Neverwinter Nights 2 after finishing a sequel 
 to another Bioware game a couple years ago being Knights of the Old Republic II: The Sith Lords. 
 A lot of content was left out of KOTOR II, but not because of Obsidians decision making, but because 
 of Lucas Arts and time allocation and public relations, so the question we are left with is; since 
 Obsidian was given time to make their own game with less hassle, were they able to produce a game 
 that could be considered great and could be mentioned in the same lines as the Baldurs Gate and 
 Icewind Dale series which also took place in the Forgotten Realms setting? Read on and find out.
 
  
  Being that the game is set in the Forgotten Realms setting and that it uses the new and improved 
 3.5 ruleset, one can imagine the type of gameplay that youll be experiencing from start up. Much 
 like its predecessor, Neverwinter Nights 2 tries to be faithful to the Dungeons and Dragons rules 
 in all respects of the game. From the beginning, youll be able to create your own character such 
 as you would in a pen and paper game of DnD by choosing your race, class, skills, and feats. Obsidian 
 took some extra time with NWN 2 and gave players the chance to pick sub-races from the Aber-Toril 
 including Tieflings, Grey Dwarfs, Drow Elves, plus a multitude of others to make the gameplay different 
 and unique each time you play through it. Fans of the first NWN thought that the original campaign 
 lacked quite a bit of depth and interest and I myself had to agree, but Obsidian this time through 
 adds more personality to the characters that youll be involved with throughout the games long 
 campaign and with this personality, comes interesting plot twists and story triggers and you progress 
 through till the end. Although it may not be the best story youve been subjected to, the story 
 itself has been improved ten fold since its predecessor.
  
  The gameplay has changed somewhat from the original game also in the respect that when you have 
 companions in your party, youre able to control every aspect of them from their inventory right 
 down to their leveling process and this can give the player more control in how they want the game 
 to played. Being able to multiclass some characters and also being able to choose certain feats 
 and skills for others adds quite a bit of control this time around that was not only wanted, but 
 most times needed in the original. Obsidian, in the time of developing NWN 2 switched to a different 
 graphics engine after having some trouble with Biowares Aurora engine, and with it, theyve made 
 and look and feel of NWN 2 become alive. Unlike the unrealistic tile sets that made up both interior 
 and exterior environments in its predecessors, NWN 2s settings look great with different foliage 
 and colors overlapping each other outside the buildings, while the multitude of placements add 
 quite a bit of life to the interiors. From the beginning of the game, when you find yourself in 
 your foster fathers home, youll notice just how much better this game looks over its prequel. 
 And add the free camera movement, where youre able to go from a top down point of view all the 
 way to a behind the back view, much like World of Warcraft, youll be able to see ceilings of hallways 
 and rooms, not to mention the ceilings of crypts and caves as you adventure across the Sword Coast.
 
  
  Unlike its predecessor, Neverwinter Nights 2 has a storyline that will keep you interested from 
 beginning till end. From the opening sequence, whether its the opening fair scene (tutorial) , 
 or the City of Neverwinter itself where you can either help the City Watch or help the local thugs 
 to complete the your goals, youll find that the main storyline has some intrigue and mystery wrapped 
 into it to keep it interesting. Along the way youll have different choices that will affect the 
 game long term, whether its the simple banter with your different companions that join with you 
 or with important NPCs that may have their view of you change with each conversation. Dont get 
 me wrong, the game still has a similar linearity as its predecessor, it just doesnt feel as constrained 
 as the first NWN. The different companions you travel with could possibly give you quests themselves, 
 but thats only if you have enough influence with them. Influence plays quite a vital role in this 
 game for a few different things, such as availability of quests, interaction with your companions, 
 and also the ability to level up your companions the way youd prefer. Neverwinter Nights 2 is 
 quite long where you can easily spend between forty and sixty hours in your first time through. 
 Of course, you wont be able to play through every quest your first time through because of either 
 influence or your characters alignment, but having to go through the game multiple times isnt 
 terrible because of the amount of choices youll have for your character and the different dialogue 
 choices youll be given to progress the story. The presentation of the story overall is dramatically 
 better than its predecessor, but that wasnt such a hard thing to do for Obsidian considering Biowares 
 story for the original NWN. Much like Baldurs Gate II, youll be given the chance to have your 
 very own stronghold in the game where youll be able to restore your own castle and city and watch 
 it become alive in front of your eyes. Its just another little touch by Obsidian to give the game 
 more depth and the player more choices.
  
  Interaction with your companions has been extremely upgraded since the original with Obsidian taking 
 the influence system from Knights of the Old Republic II: The Sith Lords and implementing it almost 
 perfectly into their latest release. Your companions will not only interact with you, but also 
 with your other companions, not to mention other NPCs that you come across throughout your travels. 
 And through conversations and actions you take during your adventures, youll either gain or lose 
 influence with your companions and this can play quite a role in your game. If you have a lot of 
 influence with your companions, youll be able to control more aspects of their leveling such as 
 giving them a prestige class, but if you dont have their favor, you use these features to the 
 game.
  
  Sound in the game is amazing. Whether youre listening to the opening theme or the dialogue thats 
 spoken throughout your game, youll be treated to some of the best. Obsidian Entertainment really 
 spared no expense in this department as youll never get tired of the music playing in the background 
 as you spend hours upon hours playing this game, whether its the original campaign or the multitudes 
 of modules that will be released in the future. There is quite a bit of dialogue thats spoken 
 in the game, but unfortunately not from your main character, but youll be able to hear your companions 
 bicker back and forth and also most of the important NPCs that youll come across have some great 
 voices and acting in their own conversations whether its being spoken to you, or if its a cutscene 
 after a distinct moment in the game to make the story progress along its path. Some of the sounds 
 of different effects have been recycled down from the original Neverwinter Nights and you can take 
 this either way. If you thoroughly enjoyed NWN, this shouldnt bother you at all, but if you were 
 looking for everything brand new, you might be a little disappointed. I myself, did not mind the 
 recycled sounds, and felt that it added a little bit of nostalgia to the sequel.
  
  Much like its predecessor, Neverwinter Nights 2 has quite a bit of replay value on it. Not only 
 did Obsidian add another class to the mix, being the always fun Warlock class, they also added 
 a good handful of prestige classes, feats, skills, not to mention all of the subraces that are 
 now present and able for you to choose from. Choosing different combinations of classes and races 
 can be quite fun and entertaining when deciding which one youd like to play throughout the games 
 lengthy campaign and each time you level up, youll be given the choice like any regular Dungeons 
 and Dragons player with being able to choose your skills, feats, and spells if you happen to be 
 a spell-wielding class. But you cant forget one of the biggest selling points of the first Neverwinter 
 Nights, fan made modules and NWN 2 gives crafters even more control when developing and creating 
 their own storyline and adventures for their friends and everyone else online to play through. 
 There were literally thousands of modules for NWN and with time, I believe NWN 2 will be no different. 
 And with more patches in the future, the DM Client will be fully released for NWN 2 where players 
 can meet up on a weekend and have their own Dungeons and Dragons weekend with a live Dungeon Master 
 controlling the different aspects of the game. A large development in the module department has 
 already started by some renowned mod makers of the original game. Its a trilogy set in the Planescape 
 setting which is looking to be amazing in its own right. Some of these mod makers should or probably 
 could easily get jobs with some of the top developers if they wanted.
  
  Like noted above, NWN 2 definitely is able to have some great multiplayer time for you and your 
 friends whether youre playing through the story campaign created by Obsidian or a fan made module 
 created for multiple players. Heck, like I said, you can even have a real live Dungeon Master run 
 a game with multiple players with the games DM Client. There is just so much that you get with 
 this game. Hours upon hours of fun that wont seem repetitive each time through with the vast amount 
 of choices that youre given each time through. Many players have complained of unstable framerates 
 both in interiors and exteriors when playing through the games campaign, but I have not experienced 
 any of this choppiness or stuttering. The game has a few bugs throughout the games many hours 
 of play, but no show stoppers. You can definitely tell that Obsidian did some great testing before 
 releasing this game to the public. The game has a separate program that updates the game when you 
 want and it works well. And Obsidian has definitely taken the time since launch to help better 
 the game in all aspects.
  
  Overall, this game is easily recommendable to a wide variety of people. Those who enjoyed the first 
 NWN, those would enjoy role-playing games, those who like to create fan made modules with a very 
 interactive and powerful toolset, and also those who want to enjoy an exciting game with a decent 
 story, great graphics, and a multitude of choices that are given to you not only at the beginning 
 of the game, but throughout its entire campaign. Gameplay: 10
  Graphics: 9
  Sound: 9
  Story/Plot: 9
  Replay Value: 9
  Stability: 9
  Multiplayer: 10
  
  Overall: 9.30 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warmknights
Rating: 4.3
Date: Dec 8, 2006 8:06 pm PT
Review:  I wish gamespot would have been more forthcoming on how bad the gameplay is due to the buggy camera. 
 I have tried playing this game for over 5 hours over 2 days and I wish I had never wasted my money. 
 The camera shifts and turns, making you always misstep. Going the opposite of the way you want 
 to go is a given over and over. how many times I died due to this I cannot tell you. I have beta 
 tested other products for developers and even those games at beta test 1 were better off in terms 
 of controls. I am severely disappointed in gamespots rating of this very poor game. Don't buy it. 
 Buy something gamespot has rated at 5.0 as that will be a better game. THIS GAME IS SO BUGGY IT 
 IS UNPLAYABLE ON PC. I cannot stress this enough. keys are totally unrealated to gameplay. you 
 are always looking for the key to hit. sometimes the mouse sometimes the keyboard or the * key 
 on the num pad. The person who wrote this for pc was stoned. This game was crap. I am not playing 
 it anymore and wasting the 79 dollars I spent on it. Please people look at the forums in various 
 groups and you will see this complaint is stated over and over.
  
  Thanks for reading.
  
  addon: on one of the forums there is a kind of fix which will allow the camera to become static 
 behind a character in some camera modes. This helps but the game is still terrible. I played for 
 another 2 hours and gave up. I read all the reviews and quite frankly I suspect the positive reviews 
 must be written by the people who made the game just to keep the score high. Once again please 
 look at review sites and see what people are saying. Game spot should be ashamed of their review 
 of this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sirmathew
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 7, 2006 3:56 am PT
Review:  Amazing RPG with very good battles, a great and well written story, lot of humor from your companions, a 
 MUST for RPG fans!!!
  
  It is much better from the original IMHO, it allows you to equip your companions with armor, weapons 
 and items and you can have till to 4 companions each time.
  Also your companions have a LOT OF HUMOR and all of them come with a nice background and some subquests 
 that adds a lot of depth in the story, they have their own personality and each of them behave on 
 your actions with a different way, as an example the dwarf fighter wants always to fight while the 
 qute half devil thief want to avoid battles and steal everything she can.
  
  A very nice addition is the ability to craft weapons, armor, misc items and potions so you can create 
 your ultimate longsword or greataxe with the damage that you want and you do not need to rely anymore 
 on some good drops during the game and that is very usefull especially for those who usually are 
 not so lucky in their games...
  
  As most modern games it also have some bugs but the good thing is that they are minor bugs and 
 especially if you save often and in different slots you will not have problems finishing the game...
 
  
  I suggest it to all the classic RPG fans, personally i find NWN 2 much better and had a lot more 
 fun than with Oblivion.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darcek
Rating: 2.9
Date: Dec 5, 2006 2:00 am PT
Review:  Where to start... first i didnt like NW1 which was linear and very very boaring... playing one level 
 or area is great then you go to another one and ... its the same and again and again... you feel 
 like your in this loop... go find chest take gold kill all baddies all clear kill boss... all clear? go 
 do the same thing in the next level.
  well this same formula is used in NW2. the same boaring crap... the best thing was the effects from 
 the magic casting.
  the rpg system is rough and boaring... you dont even want to level up like your eager in other games 
 like in gothic 3, because each level up means you need to start this complicated calculatuion where 
 the points will go.. and in the end.. when you continue playing you dont feel like somthing changed!!!
 
  
  ill give an example to this problem: in gothic 3 you get advance points each level up... now with 
 this you can buy new skill or use your sword better.. and after you get it you feel immidiatly the 
 chage. like buy hunting skill of horns and skins.. now each time you kill a game animal you get plus 
 the meat the skins and horns which you can sell etc etc... see what i mean?
  
  in NW2 i get like one more sword perficancy... dont feel a change.. get better spells a little more 
 ligthing effects in conclusion waste of my time period! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mar044
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 19, 2006 2:22 pm PT
Review:  I waited to review Neverwinter Nights 2 before I had a good play through of the game and have to 
 say overall I loved the game.
  
  The graphics are well done, some will say that the graphics are old and out dated but you won't 
 notice that much since many other games on market look way older then this game does. Their are 
 many high end options and setting them all to high will give you gameplay problems (just like many 
 games) . Those that complain that the game doesn't run well just have problems with the computer 
 they are running it on because the rig is probably to old. Trust me when I say that the art style 
 and spell effects are better then say dark messiah.
  
  Sound and Music are great, and those that played the first Neverwinter will remember some of the 
 tracks. Music fits the mood of scene that you are playing and really helps to set the mood, EAX 
 and other features are also in the game and help with the sound effects. The early problem with 
 sound cut out have not been noticed al least with up to where I have played.
  
  Gameplay is great, those that are fans of D&amp; D and games such as Knights Of the Old Republic 
 can hop right in and play with only a few changes for the better such as 1 key access to spell 
 books and fast rest to recharge them. Conversations are branchable and many options for good and 
 evil characters exist. Story is well done and fit well, the world map is that found in the earlier 
 games like Baldars gate (world map art, click on location) . All of the objects have examine on 
 them although I still miss the little artwork that was found in the first Baldars gate when you 
 examined swords. I really could find anything wrong in the game, BUT I did find that the camera 
 was a bit hard to set to a right angle for me to play, you can pan all the axis up and down to 
 up close but took me a while to find a camera angle that let me see what I wanted to see.
  
  Even with the camera problems The game is great and will give yo 40-60+ hours of gameplay. 
 I bought the collecter edition of the game that comes with 2 rings lawful good and evil but the 
 rings where the worse crap I have ever seen and looked like scrap metal folded into a ring and 
 wouln't put it on a rat. The cloth map was well done, but at the price I was paying wished that 
 they had a better jewel case other then paper.
  
  The makers had alot of hype to live up to and coming from the people that took over the work of 
 bioware that made Knights Of The Old Republic 2 this followed the series well and I hope that the 
 make a third.
  
  On a side note the update system will auto update the game up the server does not connect to the 
 maker, but IGN, strange to see it but true, I found it alittle slow for my taste but got the job 
 done. Also those that read S. A Salvatore forgotten realm books will have liitle hints when some 
 npc talk about past events related to his books. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redfox62
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 4, 2006 8:32 am PT
Review:  You know, i nearly didn't buy this game. I didn't think i'd be able to run it all that well. However 
 since i can just about run Medieval Total War 2 i thought i'd take a chance.
  
  Wow .. what can i say?
  
  What a truly awsome game. I mean, let's not beat about the bush, 
 this game is fantastic. This is exactly what i've been looking for. I might not need to buy another 
 game for a very long time!
  
  Dungeons and Dragons eh? ... always wanted to play it .. and now i can!
  
  Not only that, i 
 can create my own games and share them. I look forward to seeing what other people will create. 
 The toolset that comes with this game is astounding, it's even better than the actual game .. i 
 think?
  
  At first it left me scratching my head. I couldn't do anything with it. Things are slowly changing 
 however, i'm getting better.
  
  Now ... listen up. Games like this are few and far between. If you like RPGs, you have to buy this 
 game. Don't even think about not buying it. It's the best game i've ever played .. ever.
  
  Not sure which character i'll complete it with though, i like so many of them. I'll probably play 
 it quite a few times over. That's the thing, so many choices and options, i love it.
  
  Despite what many say, this game runs fine on a mid range system. I run it with 1024*768 resolution 
 with most options on full. Only shadows i have on low. My video card is nvidia 7600 gs agp. Last 
 but not least, i want to mention the control. There is nothing wrong with it, talk about being 
 picky. I have no problem whatsoever. Everything can be adjusted in the options.
  
  So there you go .. my short review of this deep, fun, absorbing game. It sucks you in i tell you. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: m_dorian
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 4, 2006 4:25 am PT
Review:  A fine game overall. Excelent design, Good graphics, vivid characters, interesting story, a good 
 Baldurs Saga reminder plus the toolset which gives the player the ability to make their own myths.
 
  On the other hand a very slow and frustrating view mechanism plus the unexeptable Customers Support 
 Service are worthmentioning disadvantages. The update system is clumsy and useless when having 
 a PSTN connection and no help comes from anywhere. Compared to the other Mega game of this period 
 Oblivion it lacks the astounishing graphics and the unique and innovating leveling-skill system 
 but the world the story is unfold is more solid and highly addictive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wright666
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 3, 2006 1:13 am PT
Review:  I play Neverwinter Nights 2 on a 7800 GT Nvidia graphics card and it seems to run perfect. Everything 
 from the alaising to texture mapping looks good. Multi-classing makes you think about what stradegy 
 you want to go for, with up to 4 classes ........ SWEET! (1Fighter. 2Divine Champion .3Weapon Master.4 
 Neverwinter 9) ... this is the order in which I chose my classes. But then my friend chose (1Wizard. 
 2Pale Master. 3Eldrich Knight) . It makes the game playable over and over again. The only bad thing 
 is the same spells and features as Neverwinter Nights 1 aren't as good looking. I used to like 
 the phantasmal killer spell when it was a grim reaper, and know its just a black smoke ball. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chiefq
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 2, 2006 9:00 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome graphically, gameplay, etc, but the camera will drive you nuts!
  
  No matter how you think it will be following you, in any of the four modes, it always ends up being 
 a bad angle. Rotation is slow, the up and down angle is a pain to get right, and I find it very 
 very distracting from what is otherwise a great game.
  
  My computer isnt a slouch either, yet I had to reduce the graphics to near minimum to make it work.
 
  
  Once (and IF) you can get by having to constantly adjust the camera, the gameplay is great. Graphics 
 are incredible, even turned way down. Gameplay is smooth and easy to figure out, though some not 
 familiar with the new D&amp; D rule changes will take a bit longer to get used to it.
  
  My graphics score is very low based on camera, not on the game graphics. As mentioned, they are 
 beautiful 
::::::

::::::
UserName: okcomputer666
Rating: 4.7
Date: Dec 2, 2006 3:43 pm PT
Review:  This game has to be the most frustrating game I have ever experienced! It's not even the game play 
 though. I really enjoyed playing this game but because of all the technical problems it boarders 
 on unplayable. The graphics are incredibly mediocre for as much computer power as it demands, and 
 the camera system is really terrible. Plus the network and LAN system has proven to be very difficult 
 to work with. While playing online with my friends, we experienced horrendous lag and dozens of 
 unexplained crashes to the desktop. The LAN system is just as broken. Before we even got started 
 we had to go into the system files for NWN2 and make a number of changes to even get a server set 
 up. Then whenever we decided to quit, the game just happened to corrupt our exported characters. 
 Plus, I have had to re-install the game a couple times due to patching issues. This could have 
 truly been a great game if Obsidian had actually taken the time to release a decent build of this 
 game. As it stands now, it's just a giant pile of bugs that makes me want to tear out my eyeballs. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aryax242
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 30, 2006 4:53 pm PT
Review:  I just cant figure out why this game runs so badly on my system ? It looks like 5 year old graphics 
 and runs no where near as good as Elder Scrolls Oblivion. To give a hint of how badly it runs, 
 im using a P4 3.4 w/7950GTX and 2GIGs of ram. I put this game in 1280x768 res and it ran horribly, 
 frames looked as though they were below 10fps, so i dropped the res and some graphic settings to 
 1080x768. It was better, but nothing to brag about, seemed still lagged and below 20fps. I played 
 this game for about 3 hours and just couldn't take it anymore. The storyline and features keep 
 you hooked. But i just cant see how this game could run smooth on any hardware. The only graphics 
 card above mine is 600.00$USD and i doubt it would be a huge jump in frames for a 8800gtx and the 
 latest core duo processor. This game will just make you appreciate elder scrolls so much more. 
 Frame rates are just unbearable and takes so much away from this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dblx
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 30, 2006 9:45 am PT
Review:  Ha llovido bastante desde el a&ntilde; o que aparecio la primera edicion de NeverWinter Nights, 
 sin dudarlo podriamos decir que NWN 2 es una obra maestra en todos los aspectos. pero que ha ocurrido? 
 por que despues de que te das cuenta que debes ser cuidadoso con cada uno de los innumerables bugs 
 que puedes encontrar en todo el juego... si NO consideramos este peque&ntilde; o detalle podriamos 
 decir que una buena forma de pasar el tiempo es matando algunos orcos, trasgos o dragones quizas 
 en el mundo de NWN2, pero a mi paracer creo que este Juego es solo una herramienta de creacion 
 de modulos y en muchos aspectos la campa&ntilde; a que nos entrega Obsidian y Atari es completamente 
 nefasta... sin hablar del sistema de juego online que es practicamente inutilizable. sin mas que 
 decir... creo que deberias comprarte el NWN2 SOLO si eres fanatico... de lo contrario sera como 
 comprarse una caja de bichos... que poco puedes hacer con ella. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eltanan23
Rating: 4.4
Date: Nov 29, 2006 10:39 pm PT
Review:  First of all, let me say I am (or at least, have been) an avid AD&amp; D GM. The first Neverwinter 
 Nights entertained my friends and I for weeks and weeks, both in the game itself, and the editor, 
 which was almost as much fun to mess with as the game itself.
  
  That being said, I find the sequel to be more than a little disappointing. The game itself isn't 
 bad as far as RPG's go, though the graphics are pretty much identical to the first game. That's 
 the first problem. I'm running an AMD 64-bit CPU, a pair of nVidia 6800's in an SLI link, and my 
 machine has a whopping 3GB of DDR400 ram. And the game is STILL SLOW. Loading a saved game takes 
 a minute and a half. Going from one area to another (and there are a LOT of areas) takes almost 
 as long. And this for a game with graphics that would have been current in 2001. How is it possible 
 that I can play Oblivion, with ALL the video options turned up, with almost no lag at all, and 
 yet NwN2 makes me think I'm still running my old 333mhz pentium-3! And there was only half a gig 
 of ram in that machine! And disk access speed is no excuse, my HD is a SATA with a (supposed) 3.0 
 GB/sec transfer speed. At least that's what it said on the box.
  
  The second problem with this game is with the construction of the main storyline module. No matter 
 what class you play, you'll get stuck with pretty much the same group of NPC companions. And they 
 don't tell you what classes THEY are until you meet them. So, say, you make a rogue character, 
 for example, which is great, until you get the rogue-NPC you're supposed to take around and do 
 side-quests with. Why would you want two rogues in your party, when you have a maximum of 4 characters 
 at a time? Obviously you don't, so I had to start the game over with a different PC. Unfortunately, 
 I got a bit overenthusiastic with the character creation options ( They let you play DROW? Cool! 
 ) . While this is great in theory, when you start the campaign, you're only at level 3, -after- 
 you skip the intro. But if you're one of those 'special' races, you're one or two levels behind 
 everyone else, so at 6000 XP, everyone else was level 3, while my poor Drow bard was still stuck 
 at level 1, with 4000 XP to go until level 2. Keep in mind that in D&amp; D, a level one character 
 has VERY few hit points, and even a barbarian fighter can get killed with a single hit at level 
 1. Needless to say, getting through the first part of the game with my Drow was almost impossible, 
 even with the game difficulty set all the way to 'easy'. Add all that to the ridiculous loading 
 times, and you've got a recipie for some serious frustration. Or boredom, it sometimes hard to 
 tell the difference.
  
  The third (and, for the moment, final) problem, is the editor. While the new editor is undeniably 
 more flexible, more expansive, and more detailed, it's also a LOT more difficult to use. With the 
 first NwN toolset, I was able to load it up, make an area, and link it to another area within about 
 twenty minutes, without even -glancing- at the docs. The old editor was not just useful, it was 
 actually FUN to use, especially in contrast to the Dungeon Seige editor, which I was trying to 
 learn at the same time.
  
  Unfortunately, Bioware seems to have thought that the Dungeon Siege editor idea was just spiffy, 
 because they've made it possible to create just about any layout, with a marvelous range of textures 
 and items and such, but it's just not FUN anymore. It's not nearly user-friendly enough, it's not 
 FUN at all, it's actually quite tedious. The reason I will most likely NOT make any NwN2 modules 
 is probably the same reason I never made any Dungeon Seige modules. Though not for lack of trying. 
 There are apparantly things you need to be a high-level designer or programmer to understand (or 
 use fluently) , and the NwN2 toolset is undeniably one of them.
  
  Of all these problems, the first is the worst one. I can deal with the problems in the main storyline, 
 and the loss of a usable editor is very disappointing, but doesn't really affect playing the game. 
 The LAG, however, the ridiculous loading times, DOES. What the heck was Bioware thinking? Let's 
 make our next game look exactly like our last game, but multiply the system requirements for no 
 apparant reason by a factor of ten . So, what, are they getting a kickback from PC makers or something 
 when people have to upgrade needlessly just to discover what a laggy game this is? Come on. You 
 can't tell me there's anything wrong with my system. With games like Oblivion running smoothly 
 as silk (loading time of 5-10 seconds from one end of the world to the other) , there is absolutely 
 no reason at all why I have to wait for several minutes just to load a new area that's only a single 
 room! And then just as long when I leave the room! Unforgivable!
  
  I will be thinking twice before I look at the next Bioware product, I think. If the experience 
 of this game is any indication, I'll end up having to run a HAL-9000 to play Space Invaders. Shame 
 on you, Bioware. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drichard2830
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 29, 2006 11:48 am PT
Review:  Let's just say that I'm a huge RPG fan, and over the years, I've experiences my share of computer 
 games in my favorite genre. My first exposure was with the Gold Box series of AD&amp; D games on 
 my awesome Commodore 64: Pool of Radiance, Curse of the Azure Bond, etc., etc. I owned them all, 
 and ever since computers started really allowing for the awesome graphical power and large interactive 
 environments, I have wanted someone to rewrite those most excellent games. The Pool of Radiance 
 remake was a decent attempt, but the first time I really felt like I was back in the RPG shoes 
 of the golden days was when I booted up the first Neverwinter Nights. I spent more than two years 
 playing through the single-player campaign and numerous other modules, professional and otherwise, 
 and even made my own dungeon with the tools that came with it. I played multiplayer with others, 
 enjoyed creating multiple characters of differing classes and even now have a hard drive full of 
 user-created mods for the game.
  
  With that in mind, my excitement over the new NWN 2 release was hard to contain. I was very excited 
 about what the previews showed, and preordered my copy early. On finally acquiring the game, I 
 installed it eagerly, ready to reimmerse myself in the world of Neverwinter and D&amp; D. My first 
 impression, however, was less than favorable, and with so many games out there, I don't often give 
 a game more than the first impression. Given its heritage, however, I continued on. Here are some 
 of my findings.
  
  Initally, the character creation screen is like a thousand other RPG's, but more specifically, 
 like every other D&amp; D RPG. I wasn't too impressed with the graphics at first, but hoped it would 
 get better once I got into the game. I created a Paladin, looking forward to my prestige classes 
 later in the game, and began the first area, a tutorial if you will of the new gameworld. The first 
 thing I noticed upon entering the game was the annoying camera. My character's adopted father asked 
 me to get some furs out of the chest in the hall, and for the life of me, I couldn't get the camera 
 to rotate to a view that made it easy to access it. To be fair, the game gives you four camera 
 modes with which to toy with, but after all the good games that have come out and done it right, 
 why couldn't we just have a camera controlled by a mouse look that follows the character as I move? 
 I eventually settled on the follow cam, and have actually learned to get used to it. The next thing 
 I noticed was the control scheme. Opening and walking through doorways is a real frustration, especially 
 in a dungeon where the open door leads to hostiles. Part of the aggravation with it is due to the 
 camera, because I cannot click the mouse in the room, or see in the room until I have entered it. 
 But if you choose to navigate the world using the WASD config (you cannot rebind, but it is the 
 easiest way to walk through open doorways) , you'll find yourself spinning a lot, as the left/right 
 keys turn you 45 degrees absolutely, and if you hold it down, you'll easily turn too far. I find 
 I'm tapping my movement keys quite frequently.
  
  The next issue I have is with the graphics. While the game does indeed look good, with some excellent 
 textures and lighting, it isn't fantastic. Yet, my system sputtered quite a bit at the higher settings 
 and after turning some down (not noticing a significant visual change) , eventually got to an acceptable 
 performance point. The game still stutters quite a bit in heavy combat, especially when a lot of 
 visual effects are in play. Strange though, for requiring so much power to run, the game doesn't 
 look as pretty as you'd think it should.
  
  Finally, after all the initial twiddling, I was excited to learn about a patch that might make 
 my life a bit easier. After numerous attempts, I have been unable to use the auto patch system 
 to run my update. And I have not been able to find the manual patch (of course, I haven't tried 
 for two weeks) , so I am still running on the 1.0 version of the game. Every time I try, the game 
 fails and states I should do a critical rebuild. All I can say is, I hope that doesn't mean a reinstall, 
 because the 8.9 or so GB of data don't go on easily.
  
  With all that said, I have to say I find myself still playing. Character development is just what 
 you are used to in AD&amp; D games, and the combat is delightful, the voice work excellent, and 
 the environments well done. The story is also very entertaining and keeps you driving to the next 
 quest to find out what is going on. The best thing about the game is the henchman system. I now 
 have three other party members that have joined my initial character, but I have complete control 
 over them, even to how they level up! It really feels like those old Gold Box days when I created 
 a party of four to go stomp out evil. The influence system with your henchmen is interesting as 
 well. I am having a hard time pleasing the druid in my party without pissing off the pugilist dwarf 
 I picked up earlier. This all plays in to the story as well, and though I haven't finished it, 
 I'm excited to see how it all plays out. I am also ready to start another character just to see 
 how things play out differently (chaotic evil thief or sorcerer may be a good choice after going 
 with the goodie goodie lawful good paladin) .
  
  I know I complained about the graphics earlier, but let me say that the environments are awesome, 
 and when you zoom in to see your character's face, shadows and lighting really make it look good. 
 The spell effects are appropriate and pleasing, and everything feels quite real. I just wish my 
 fireball would blow the crap out of all those barrels and other non-interactive items strewn around 
 the levels.
  
  Anyway, if you are into RPG's, this one is a real treat and you should do yourself a favor by picking 
 it up, though you may want to upgrade your video card first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kokobil
Rating: 3.5
Date: Nov 29, 2006 2:55 am PT
Review:  Here goes my own review of the game: Neverwinter Nights 2 I got the Enlish DVD version. I will 
 give you a walkthrough game review and by that i mean to give you the whole experience as i lived 
 it pace to pace.
  
  INSTALATION / GAME PACKAGE To begin with the game installed without problems on my PC : P4 3.0 
 HT ,GeForce 6600GT 128 MB 1GB RAM,250GB HD WindowsXP PRO SP2 updated with the latest patches. After 
 the instalation and while i was patching the game i opened and browsed through the manual of the 
 game. Thought it would be wise to get a quick look on the new rules Feats spells etc.. There came 
 the first negative impression. The manual apart from the trivial subjects it covers (that you really 
 don't need to have a manual for them) it covers NOTHING about the game. It doesn't mention anything 
 on races ,classes, prestige classes, feats, toolset functions, not even the spell list or spell 
 progress!!! The game supposes you already posess probably the Ad&amp; D Rule books with the spells 
 and all. Well i am an experienced AD&amp; D player but what if i wasn't? So first BIG negative hit 
 is the manual. Really makes me feel like having a pirate copy since the whole box apart from the 
 valid CD key it gives me nothing else! The update after 30 minutes had finished and i was ready 
 now to start the game.
  
  INTRODUCTION The starting screen with the options appeared with a minor negative thing. The options 
 to chose from Play ,Toolset ,DMclient (at least that is there) ,readme , update, exit wouldn't 
 highlight when my mouse cursor would pass over them like it is happening on NWN1 making me a bit 
 uncertain to wether the game understads or not where my mouse cursor is. But this in really minor.... 
 The introduction video looked cool. So i started the game. The character creation choices are not 
 in fact as many as featured. They only have more colours compaired to the original.
  
  SOUNDS The game sounds ok but they kept most of the old voicets for the characters with the addition 
 of 2-3 new ones that gives a bad taste in the mouth. Too lazy obviously to hire some actor say 
 some extra line for voiceset. ANIMATION The animation gives an impression this is an old game made 
 by amateurs. It's just that the way the character is moving around gives a feeling as if playing 
 BG . The character has only 3 modes. Standing walking and runing. From standing to runing there 
 is no indermediate accelerating fase so it somehow gives an unnatural jerky impression. Also the 
 character model doesn't feel like is actually touching the ground but instead that his feet are 
 slightly hovering over the surface. Also when moving around into single player you get constant 
 lag hits as if playing on a heavy traffic multiplayer world a Saturday night. And i mean it's in 
 single player! Imagine what will happen to a multiplayer module. The combat animation is jerky and 
 composed of the sam eboring moves over and over and over. Uninspiring. USER INTERFACE
  The keyboard controls are too sencitive making impossible to move around the character using them 
 . If you use the keyboard keays WASD you won't be able to avoid the constant zig zag . At some 
 point i decided to change the control keys but couldn't cause there was no such option. Then i 
 realised that you can change them but only on a new game . The general enviroment and the forms 
 cursor takes when hovering over items reminds me much of BG or Icewind Dale etc. Somehow the whole 
 visual feels old. You have to see it to get the exact feeling of it. The examine item option is 
 tricky and takes too slow. The way the inventory is looking feels old as well. Brings us back to 
 Icewind Dale series once again... The items are small and rectangular no matter what they are. 
 From an armor to a dagger they all take the same space into the inventory and it doesn't feel right. 
 Also the icons on the inventory are very small to distinguish between them. And when the inventory 
 starts to get filled up it becomes a real mess to tell what is what. Threre is no walk feature. 
 Of course you can press Shift and click but it is hard to do it all the time. If you use Search 
 in order to make the character walk you will have the message you seek the nearby area for traps 
 appearing all the time floating your dialogue window that by the way can't be splited in 2 so to 
 separate the battle rolls from the talking. The camera makes things difficult and unfun. Needs 
 constant tweaking but for me it wasn't the worst thing of the game. GRAPHICS
  The character models don't look so bad although they surely look unathletic especialy the female 
 ones.. For sure not acceptable for a game of 2006 with such high hardware requirments. The way 
 the outside areas surfaces look is without much detail. When you drop items on the floor they don't 
 appear as they should but always into a trasure sack. When you hover yout mouse cursor over it 
 it gives the name of the item: chainmail for example. When you press key Z to highlight the itmes 
 so to be able to target easier in fact it highlights every single placeable on the area in a glowing 
 white funny manner that destroys the immersivity. Another disapointing factor is in single player 
 that while the characters are supposingly talking to you their facial expression never changes. 
 No matter how dramatic or nice the voice is sounding the faces have always the same expression 
 and when the open their mouths it looks as if in there are not teeth or a tongue but just an empty 
 hole. Also the cliping of the models is heavy. The zooming that the camera that the game does automaticly 
 isn't helping the player to forget this. These visuals make me unable to immerse into the story. 
 Give me instantly the impression that this is a game and all these are in fact fake. AREAS
  Another disapointing factor is that the areas are in fact much smaller than they look. In the first 
 areas for example both the map and the visuals give you the impression that the area you can explore 
 is much bigger. Well in fact it isn't. Do you notice the little fence around the place? Well it 
 is made for a purpose. The area extends till the fence. At some points there is no fence either... so 
 you think you can move over there. doing so will lead the character to smash himself into an invisible 
 wall .this would make very hard for the player to realise the true limits of an area making effectively 
 the exploration very difficult. So the actual area that the players can move or interact is very 
 small. The rest is more or less a wallpaper giving a pseudo-3d impression. I reallly don't like the 
 mini map that has this round form so i can't have the whole area so to plan properly but only a 
 fraction of it even on total zoom out. Also the way the mini map is drawn is not helping the player 
 much. Brings in mind Morrowind's mini map but worst because the mini map actually fools you. The 
 actual play ara is much smaller TOOLSET The famous Toolset has many more option but is too slow 
 cumbersome to use hard to learn. I was able to creating small mods with the other one immediatly 
 . With this i failed each time. MULTIPLAYER
  Multiplayer has lost all the cool features. The beautiful drawned portraits of the characters have 
 been substituted by these horrid looking 3D ones that are hard to distinguish between them. Also 
 the internet connection speeds the cilent needs to have are much higher than the original . Even 
 the most powerful computer of today won't be able to host a md with more than 15 players at the 
 same time. Also the mods will contain in effect much less areas. For example a Mod for NWN2 will 
 be 80% smaller to NWN1 . You will no longer be able to have big credible worlds. The game crashes 
 often too when playing on the internet. Let alone that if one of your party talks to a merchant 
 all party members get forced to see the merchant's screen! If a party member portals from an area 
 to another all other party members will as well. The dialogue window can't be splited in 2 to separate 
 the dialogue lines from the combat rolls . A party will be unable to go kill stuff while speaking 
 some lines at the same time. Let alone the letters in the dialogue box are too small. EPILOGUE
 
  To make the long story short. I think after this experience i will go and play the NWN1 original 
 campaigns once again. Far more fun for me. Even people's mods seem better for my eyes and give 
 me more fun. The single player story of NWN2 being nice or not makes no difference since i lack 
 the patience to wrestle with the controls and the chaotic visuals. There it goes. I bought NWN2 
 tried it hated it and decided not to wrestle with it any more. I ll stick to NWN1 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BaronPwent
Rating: 6.4
Date: Nov 28, 2006 11:41 pm PT
Review:  The D&amp; D license seems to be met with disastrous results lately. The patheticly designed DDO 
 and now a seemingly underdeveloped NVN2.
  
  Graphics
  NVN2 seems to have failed at almost every level to deliver a visually stunning game. Honestly, 
 I would dare to say the Fallout series had better graphics. PC's and NPC's alike are simply disappointing. 
 Large creatures such as giants and dragons are hardly awe inspiring. Most look like they could 
 have desperately used another few months of polish time. The best graphics come in the form of 
 partical effects that accompany spells and magical weapons. Yet, if your play style leans more 
 toward the sword then the sorcery, you may never even notice.
  
  Sound
  The sound quality was an average result. Many sound bits have been reused from the original NVN 
 such as for character voices and spell casting phrases. While the character voice selections from 
 NVN all remain, some new offerings have been added in NVN2. While this would have added an extra 
 layer of diversity, many of the new character voice options are generic and unappealing. A few 
 are even nearly identical in vocal tone and only seem to differ in the words being spoken.
  
  Gameplay
  If you have played NVN then you are in for few surprises in the root gameplay. 
 There are numerous additions in the prestige class area, but some are terribly adapted from their 
 pen and paper counter parts. Skills and feats are pretty much the same old deal. The addition of 
 a quick cast menu is highly convenient for those who enjoy the spell casting route.
  
  Yet, these minor additions are plagued by some fundamental issues. Most noticible is the camera. 
 There are several settings for the camera and each of them is horridly frustrating in a different 
 way. I can't even begin to describe or comprehend the horror of the camera settings in NVN2.
  
  As with any RPG, you will find yourself with additional party members. Taking a cue from KOTOR2, 
 an influence system has been added. Based on conversation responses you will gain or loose influence 
 with party members. This will unlock more information about their history and motives when you 
 talk with them. This holds little impact on actual gameplay and holds only minor impact over the 
 story.
  
  Along with influence changes during conversation are alignment changes. These hold even less impact 
 and unless you really try to change your alignment, it will never happen by accident. As a whole, 
 the conversation paths are shallow. Most of the time you are given 3 options, one obviously evil 
 or good and the third being a neutral reply. The sad part is that most of the time your choice 
 will not affect alignment or influence and won't even illicit a different response from the npc. 
 You could threaten them or show compassion and they'll respond with the same statement. Its a horridly 
 disappointing use of the dialogue tree system.
  
  Along with the disappointing use of dialogue options is the bland and utterly linear storyline 
 and game progression. Evil or good the story ends up progressing along the same line. Most tragically 
 is the ability to simply go off and explore has been removed. New areas can only be unlocked by 
 progressing along the storyline. There is never a time where you are freely able to roam the countryside 
 looking for adventure.
  
  Value
  Due to all the various issues, I would hardly ever consider playing through NVN2 more then once 
 or twice. It is mindnumbingly linear and your choices make little difference in the story. The 
 only promise of actual value comes from the toolset and player built content. I can only hope more 
 time went into the toolset then did the actual game. NVN2 also makes the same mistake so many RPG's 
 do. It fails to provide post endgame content. The game simply ends and your character ceases to 
 mean anything. Some of the most fun in Fallout 2 is after finishing the game you can continue to 
 use your character and explore and revisit areas. I wish more RPG's would get a clue and add such 
 a feature. Its simply an easy way to extend play value. I would have been much more satisfied with 
 NVN2 if I had simply been able to go back after winning and continue development of my castle, 
 land, and army.
  
  Tilt
  There is one point I can say I really enjoyed. Sadly it was an underdeveloped minigames of sorts 
 that involves developing a castle and raising an army to defend it. This segment of the game really 
 caught my interest as such an option has never really been given in a D&amp; D game before to my 
 knowledge. It was fun and amusing and yet was really nothing more then a series of conversation 
 boxes and pretty much entirely text based.
  
  So much in NVN2 is lacking. It simply makes me want to go back to playing Fallout and Fallout 2 
 to get a really in depth RPG experience. Especially after witnessing the abomination of an ending 
 to NWN2.... played out in a Fallout style slide show summary of what happens to various locations 
 and people. Its simply laughable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eo12601
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 28, 2006 3:28 pm PT
Review:  Neverwinter Nights 2 is the anticipated sequel to the original critically acclaimed Neverwinter 
 Nights. How does it stack up? Read on to find out this reviewers opinion.
  
  Gameplay- Where to start? Well, Neverwinter Nights has you start off as a lowly villager participating 
 in a town festival, and gradually builds up to its grand finale, a battle with the games villain, 
 the King of Shadows. Throughout this long, and when I say long, I mean over 30 hours of game-play 
 per playthrough long, you will find yourself interacting with a wide assortment of characters, 
 battling through dungeons, and slowly learning more about the games aforementioned villain and 
 how to best him. A promising premise, but in the end, the game falls flat on its face.
  
  The majority of the game will be spent trecking from point A to point B in one of the games MANY 
 dungeons. Some of the best quests in the entire game are the ones that have you do something different, 
 but unfortunately, most of the quests are not particularly memorable. The problem here is that 
 weve all seen and played dungeon crawlers a hundred times over, and killing hordes of enemies 
 while trekking through a dark, gloomy, cramped series of corridors and hallways is getting rather 
 stale. And yet, thats where the bulk of the games length will come from. It is refreshing to 
 finally go on a quest that doesnt have you entering some cave or abandoned ruin, but these quests 
 are few and far between, and the majority of these are also rather uninspired. The combat itself 
 can be broken up into two parts. Melee combat and magic combat. Your different characters, depending 
 on their classes and feats will be able to fight with a good ol blade, with fireballs, or even 
 with both. Melee combat, however, is extremely unsatisfying. The most you will ever see your character 
 do is dodge out of the way. Sadly, unlike the kotor games, the filler animations that made swordfights 
 in that game interesting to watch have been taken out. And so, if you chose a primarily melee character 
 like I did, you will, in all actuality, see about three combat animations from your character during 
 the entire game. A dodging animation, and one or two attack animations. Thats it. Characters that 
 can use magic have the spell casting animation too, but thats pretty much it. Because of this, 
 combat quickly gets stale. Magic characters do have a large assortment of spells to choose from, 
 which adds some variety to the game-play, but in truth some of the spells seem a bit overdone. 
 There are times that it felt like I was watching a lightshow instead of playing a game, and while 
 that might sound appealing, do realize that your are controlling a host of characters in battle 
 here, and if you die, youll have to reload from the next save. So having your characters completing 
 blotted out by explosions of light everywhere gets a little frustrating. Overall, combat lacks 
 any significant sense of presentation or polish. There are times when Neverwinter Nights 2 feels 
 more like a really crappy strategy game where you point and click and watch your party and the 
 enemies take turns hitting each other, which is basically what combat amounts to. You can micromanage, 
 if you wish, controlling all of your characters actions on a turn by turn basis, which is far 
 more effective, but generally speaking, you wont really need to save for a couple tougher boss 
 battles towards the end of the game.
  
  The games difficulty is a rather strange thing. There is no real difficulty for practically the 
 entire game, but then, as mentioned, towards the end it ramps up quite a bit. This could be due 
 to my rather weak characters, which are a byproduct of my never playing a D and D based game before 
 and not taking the time to read through the manual. I went with the flow, and I completed the game, 
 so a knowledge of D and D isnt really necessary. To its credit, the game has a pretty deep character 
 customization and leveling system. There are also a large number of classes and prestige classes 
 to choose from, which certainly adds variety. The best parts of the gameplay are your interactions 
 with the characters in the game and in your party. The characters are all unique and have their 
 own personalities, beliefs, etc. They will have opinions on how you should go about doing things, 
 and if you develop a rather close relationship with them (meaning you consistently do and say things 
 that they approve of) then they may open up to you, revealing parts of their past, shedding light 
 on your quest, etc. However, this influence system is flawed when it comes to someone who has the 
 intention of only playing through this game once, someone like me. Because many of the characters 
 will actually disagree with each other about various issues, siding with one will make you lose 
 trust with the other, meaning you are less likely to find out the other characters story. In addition, 
 it is worth mentioning that a lot of situations can be averted or made easier through conversation 
 options. However, in reality, it is a far more shallow system than it seems at first glance. Getting 
 a high level in a skill like Diplomacy will almost always allow you to be successful in talking 
 people out of/into things, and therefore, your characters skill in diplomacy determines the success 
 or failure, not necessarily your careful choice of words. Although a careful choice of words can 
 usually have the same effect as a high level diplomacy skill, the diplomacy option is by far the 
 easier and quicker option, and the game encourages its use, and exploitation. One other gameplay 
 mechanic that I feel I need to mention is the resting mechanic. Resting is used to restore health 
 and the ability to use spells between encounters. The problem is that many times when you want 
 to rest you will be unable to, for one of two reasons. Either, there are enemies nearby, or you 
 cannot rest so soon after exerting yourself. The latter is a pain, because it basically means you 
 have to wait 5-10 seconds and then rest. It is completely useless and only makes you waste time 
 waiting for your character to gain the ability to restsomething ironically, in the real world, 
 we do when we have exerted ourselves. The former is even more of a pain, because, the fact is, 
 if your allies and your character have low health, the only rational thing to do would be to heal 
 up. So this basically forces you to backtrack until you are far away enough to rest, which again, 
 only serves to waste your time. One last thing that I remembered is that some areas do not allow 
 you to rest in themhowever, this is easily solved by exiting the area, resting in the outside 
 area that usually allows resting, and returning with full health. Again, no real point because 
 it is so easily bypassed, all it does is serve as a major annoyance throughout the entire game.
 
  
  The game sees you attaining a castle, but in reality, the castle is really nothing too special. 
 I spent a tremendous amount of time upgrading everything and training and recruiting as many men 
 as I could, and in the end, it had a pretty negligible impact on the game. The castle only comes 
 into play once, and thats it. In addition, a lot of things in respect to managing your castle 
 feel incomplete. For instance, you will have a group of adventurers that will volunteer their services 
 to you. However, they show up a grand total of 2-3 times, and thats about it. And as mentioned, 
 the fact that my castle rivaled Helms Deep and that I had an army of over 3, 200 men equipped 
 with the best armor and weapons really didnt seem to count for much/have much of an impact on 
 the game. Overall, the combat gameplay gets stale and is rather dull and uninteresting. If the 
 flashiness of some of the spells was toned down, and instead the melee combat was made to look 
 flashier/more impressive, that in itself would be a huge step forward. The best part of the game 
 are your interactions with the games many playable and non playable characters, and yet, even 
 these feel quite limited and somewhat constricted, and dont seem to have evolved much from what 
 has already been seen in previous games of this sort. Gameplay gets a 7, I honestly cant give 
 a game with 3-4 combat animations anything higher considering you will be seeing those same animations 
 over and over again during those 30+ hours. Graphics- I have a medium-high end system, and this 
 game still runs extremely poorly for me. Even at the best settings, the game is hardly a graphical 
 powerhouse, and at the worst settings, it still encounters framerate issues. There are some nice 
 graphical touches, however, I must admit. Some of the weapons and armor pieces look quite neat, 
 and most of the in game characters look surprisingly good in comparison to the rest of the game. 
 The spells, as previously mentioned, are a little overwhelming, but still look quite nice for the 
 most part. However, there are a lot of negatives as well. Many of the cutscenes are flawed in that 
 they fail to adjust properly to your character and what he is carrying. For example, all too often, 
 during a cutscene, I was left staring at a close up of my characters tower shield, which isnt 
 very pretty even from a distance... when instead I should have been seeing my character. The cutscenes 
 themselves are serviceable, but it really would have been nice to see something of a similar quality 
 as that of the games opening cinematic that also serves as its trailer. In addition, the game 
 also suffers from one of the worst camera systems I have ever had the misfortune of playing with. 
 You will eventually grow accustomed to it, but even then, its still annoying that they couldnt 
 take a hint from games like WOW, and their very own KOTOR 2, and create a camera system that doesnt 
 give people a headache when they are attempting to use it. In fact, I am getting a headache just 
 reminiscing about it. Graphics get a 6, for being extremely graphically underwhelming, and thanks 
 to a horrible camera.
  
  Sound- The sound is pretty good overall. The voice act is excellent, the sound effects are good, 
 and the game has a nice score. There are some particularly nice touches in this department, in 
 terms of magic characters uttering incantations as they fire magic spells at enemies, as well as 
 later in the game when one of two characters will have to slowly chant some magical words in order 
 to kill some particularly menacing baddies. It really is quite a thrill to hear the character slowly 
 chanting louder and louder and louder while your other allies distract the enemy in question. This 
 category wouldve easily been a 9, but it is hurt by the sound glitches that I experienced on an 
 almost regular basis. These glitches could usually be fixed by loading up a saved game or by restarting 
 the application, however, it is just another unnecessary hassle. The game lacks polish, and that 
 is the truth. 8
  
  Value- If youre willing to deal with all the aforementioned problems, some of which, will hopefully 
 be addressed in patches, then you will probably get your moneys worth. A single playthrough is 
 worth over 30 hours, and considering the many different classes and races, and the large amount 
 of different experiences you will have in playing through the game different ways, you will likely 
 play through it more than once, again, if you are willing to deal with its issues. Also, the game 
 comes with a toolset that the professional developers used to create it, and it is therefore very 
 likely that we will see some great stories and adventures (modules) to come in the near future 
 from the community, which, will serve to extend the lifespan of the game exponentially. If, once 
 again, you are willing to deal with its issues, as I doubt even the best modules will make the 
 combat system more flashy, the framerate any smoother, and the graphics less dated. 9
  
  Reviewers Tilt= Overall Storyline Category
  The overall concept behind the NWN 2 storyline is 
 a great one, and there is a lot of depth and history behind the, at first glance, transparently 
 clich&eacute; d villain of the game. The problem is that the story evolves very slowly in the beginning, 
 and even after things have been set into motion, more or less, the game still feels like it progresses 
 at a snails pace. During one of the most memorable quests in the game, you get to interact with 
 the ghosts of beings who actually knew the Shadow King before he became the villain that you now 
 know of. Its great because it shows you that there is more depth to this guy than there seemed 
 at first, and it is quite fascinating to hear how all the events were set into motion, and how 
 things ended up the way they did. However, the developers didnt take advantage of this intriguing 
 aspect of the villain, and they didnt expand upon it, which is a real pity. There are tons of 
 moments that practically scream for better/more storytelling, such as your conversation with a 
 dragon who fought, and was defeated by the King of Shadows long ago. The story progresses far too 
 linearly, rarely does it take time out for extra storytelling, throwing you from one objective 
 to another but rarely taking the time to really immerse you in the rich history of the game world. 
 It has its good moments, and there are some surprises, and the one of the aspects that the game 
 incorporated near the very end of the game was a fantastic shockerto me. Lets say that your allies 
 will be tempted, and leave it at that. But even then, only a handful of your group express their 
 approval or disapproval for you and your actions throughout the course of the game at that climactic 
 close to end-game confrontation, and I was left feeling like that idea could have been expanded 
 on, and overall, better implemented. And the end of the game is both nice and not so nice. The 
 fate of your little entourage is a bit anti-climactic, and if you were expecting to arrive in Neverwinter 
 city to parades and cheering then you will be sorely disappointed. The good part is that you get 
 to learn the fate of many of the characters that you encountered at one time or another throughout 
 the game, in other words, what happened to them/what they did after the events of the story took 
 place, but even this feels rushed and slightly shallow. Only a handful of characters are mentioned, 
 and you are left wondering by all the rest. Overall, an 8.
  
  Final Words
  Neverwinter Nights 2 is a game that has a lot of great ideas that aren't fully implemented, a great 
 foundation for a storyline that isn't told as provocatively as it could have been, and is plaqued 
 by an overall dissapointing lack of polish and presentation. Here's to hoping Obsidian's future 
 games, whether they be Kotor 3, Neverwinter Nights 3, or something new, will be an improvement 
 over what we have seen here. In the end, the game gets what it deserves, 7.6 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spy_hellscream
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 28, 2006 8:11 am PT
Review:  So I jump in the game for the first time, time to make a new character. After checking out all 
 of the races I picked the half-orc strong as all hell boosted his str to 20.... get in to the customization 
 of skills and see this new skill called Monkey Grip? this skill lets you hold a two-handed weapon 
 in one hand (so lets say you have the two weapon skill, you can hold two greatswords) which was 
 pretty cool in my book, grabbed that and headed into the game. The first mobs I came to I decimated, 
 a half-orc with 20 str dual weilding two greatswords lol, it was hard for anything to last more 
 than two hits... even bosses were falling in 2-4 hits. Well regardless its a really good game worth 
 buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: imthelumberjack
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 28, 2006 3:26 pm PT
Review:  A no BS Lumberjack review GAMEPLAY: If you played NWN you will notice that the gameplay has remained 
 unchanged. With the quick bar access (which has been expanded to 120s slots) character banners 
 and the classic point and click style. Players will also find that NWN2 has a reasonable KOTOR 
 flavor especially in how characters react, following a progressing story line for most characters 
 which can conclude in several ways. Players can now have up to 4 other members in their party at 
 any one time which adds a great deal of planning before taking on quest and is very rewarding when 
 you find your favorites Also a great leap in content thanks to the D&amp; D 3.5 rule set. Overall 
 gameplay will last from around 35-60 hours depending on how many side quests you partake in.
  
  GRAPHICS / SOUND:
  Graphically NWN2 is reasonably high when turned onto max settings (1.03beta 
 patch adds AA) but that is only if your machine can handle it. There is a wealth of normal mapping 
 on the terrain, great speculars, and some amazing water effects with reflections and refractions. 
 Characters unfortunately are not usually well textured often appearing to be made of one uniformed 
 shader giving a bland look to them. Some characters on the other hand (eg: Neeshka) seem to have 
 had a good amount of time put into them making them stand out against the rest of your group. Sound 
 is very similar to the original NWN. In fact most of the games sounds are directly ripped from 
 it, with the same PC voices and spell casting voices. Does add a bit of a nostalgic value to it 
 though.
  
  STORY:
  The games story is loosely based off of the original and its expansion. You are from the small 
 village of West Harbor and are sent to protect your realm from that ever persistent King of Shadows. 
 Along the way you will meet several interconnected characters to your story that will band up with 
 you until you eventually destroy the King of Shadows and his minions. Some familiar faces can be 
 found along the way including Lord Nasher and by god Deekin?! (For all of thoughs that miss Aribeth 
 she will not be found her except for some references in books) . Overall the story is realtively 
 believable and connects the gameplay nicely with it. The only problem is the ending which is probably 
 one of the worst to ever grace the PC and leaves an aftertaste of un-accomplishment. I reccomend 
 just quiting after defeating the King of Shadows and pretending that you and your remaining party 
 do something... well... less sucky. This has been a lumberjack review 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KL_Phantom
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 27, 2006 4:05 pm PT
Review:  The game has some great new features. The positive stuff first. The crafting kind of adds more 
 to the game then just killing mobs over and over. To be honest I have not dealt with it much yet 
 though. The extra NPC in your party is also nice and helps out. The way your treat your NPC part 
 members really plays a part in the game this time around and I like that a lot. Graphics are decent. 
 Not the best out there but above a lot of other games. Can't seem to stop playing it though. It 
 is really a fun game and have looked forward to it's release. The character creation screen is 
 pretty detailed in what feats and spells you are choosing. Helps a lot so you don't have to refer 
 to the book all the time. Access to your parties inventory is easy.
  
  Some of the downsides to the game though with the largest problem first is the framrates. I have 
 an above average computer and I have to turn the graphics down a ton to be able to even play. If 
 there is some major area of effect spells going then good luck. I am stuck on the KoS fight right 
 now because of that reason. From what I have heard is they did not program the game to be compatable 
 with dual core processors. Not sure if this is true or not. Since I do have one who knows. Also 
 running 2 cards in SLI config and can run Oblivion almost all the way up on graphics. Also the 
 controls can be a bit tough but that might just be me no playing games like this in awhile. NPCs 
 in your party can use a little better AI. Overall though I think it is a great game with great 
 storyline. Have not played online yet so can really review that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rodmcintye
Rating: 7.7
Date: Nov 27, 2006 3:56 pm PT
Review:  I am something of a NeverWinter Nights fanboi. When the release date for NWN2 crept closer I replayed 
 NWN and expansions just to get myself back into the world.
  
  This always bodes ill for a sequel to a hugely succesful game, all of the expectations and the 
 gawd I cant wait-ness of it all.
  
  So .... I have played it now, NWN2, and well ... I geuss overall I would have to say I am not dissapointed, 
 it is beautiful to look at, the sound is great, has a big manual full of uber-geek numba's, had 
 an ok, if not somewhat uninspired story. But, all of this said, I left the game ... merely underwhelmed.
 
  
  I certainly expected more from Obsidian. If it was closer to Christmas I would suspect they shipped 
 to fit a release-line.
  
  What I didnt like
  
  * Weird, fiddly, inconvenient camera
  * Room - Monster - Treasure - Room - Monster - Treasure - **INN** - Room - Monster - Treasure - 
 its boring just reading that bit - let alone playing it for 30 hours.
  
  What I did like
  
  * Absolutely bottiefoo to look at
  * Is the Never Winter world again - and I geuss, being 
 a fanboi, I would have been satisfied if the game looked and played like a supermarket cash regsiter.
 
  * The humour in it - I laughed - even it I didnt go wow . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SeaHawk_Omega
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 27, 2006 9:52 am PT
Review:  I'm not going to ramble on saying how this should be like that or this makes the game a let down, 
 I'm just going to give it to you straight...
  
  Neverwinter Nights 2 is, for all it's bugs and quirks, an amazing sequel to Neverwinter Nights. 
 Now there ARE some problems, but those can be overlooked if you're really serious about playing 
 the game, it took me a couple of hours to get a handle on the new controls and camera angles. But 
 over all it was fairly easy to get the hang of, if you have the patience, and if you don't that's 
 your problem, not Obsidian Entertainment's.
  
  All in all the game is great. While some aspects are difficult in the beginning, once you get the 
 hang of things you're in for one intriguing, fun and action packed adventure. I highly recommend 
 this to anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: devnull
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 27, 2006 5:51 am PT
Review:  The good:
  
  Players of Baldurs Gate, Icewind Dale and Neverwinter Nights will feel at home in this new edition 
 at the same time as it adds new look and feel and, naturally, a new storyline. The story is captive 
 and it's hard to let go enough to get some sleep, go to work etc. To get your own Keep to administrate 
 and handle is a fine novelty.
  
  The bad:
  
  Graphics feels dated, there's a few glitches where your figure jumps over the screen. Although 
 the storyline is said to be open you get a feeling that you'll end up at the same result no matter 
 what you do (with a few different nuances) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hywel69
Rating: 4.5
Date: Nov 27, 2006 5:29 am PT
Review:  Seriously this is NOT a good game. Do not be deceived by the Fanboi reviews. Check www.1up. com 
 for an honest professional game review.
  
  At least gamespot gave it 6 for graphics, so kudos to them for that at least. I will try to be 
 honest here, but where to start?
  
  Pretty much everyone knows by now that the graphics are not the best in this game, its not just 
 on account of the obvious lag, poor performance and high specs needed. Graphics are about more 
 than the nuber of Polygons, Shadows, and how many Pixel shaders you support.
  
  GRAPHICS
  Graphics lead to very poor imersion . Levels are SMALL, tiny, and also animations are very very 
 poor. Your characters will not look very cool while running fighting or doing anything. Customization 
 of look of you char is OK, but not earth shattering.
  
  INTERFACE
  Interface. Very poor, I was getting RSI in the end, right clicking wait for pop-up, drag etc. Camera 
 has numerous faults that others have noted, but I can cope with that at least, you just need to 
 fiddle with it.
  
  MULTIPLAYER
  This game uses Huge walk meshes, that ALL clients MUST download before they can join your world. 
 Upwards of 200-300MB. You will need to find a decent Paid For ISP so that each client can download 
 the 100of MB. You are therefore looking at Paying for Terrabytes! of download if you want to host 
 an online world. You have been warned.
  
  To host the game you will need to open numerous ports, and know a fair bit about firewalls (ok 
 this does not bug me) , but you will likely need XP, or more likely pay for hosting a Windows 2003 
 server since the server does not support Linux.
  
  If you make any small changes to game world, all users will need to re-download those Terabytes. 
 Other online support such as chat is very poorly Supported.
  
  Also take note. Online, If ONE person entersa shop, ALL party members will do so . If ONE person 
 starts a conversation with NPC, the whole party HAS to. This is due to the very small levels (due 
 to insane memory needs) , and therefore system can't cope with people in different areas. Toolset 
 is not getting much good feedback from the developer community at the moment.
  
  CAMPAIGN
  This is very linear and is based on very very small levels. MOst levels have very few 
 places you can explore (if any... seriously) , and doors, buildings etc are there for scenery. You 
 must open up areas on your map before you can go there. Also many doors are super locked on account 
 of the linear scripting not wanting you to go there.
  
  There are numerous game breaking bugs that if you take certain choices, will prevnt you from completing 
 the game. Make SURE to patch patch patch before you start this game.
  
  SLOWNESS
  Loading screens are insane, even on the same level. If you go to the shop to buy mats for crafting... load... leave 
 shop... load... walk 20 yard to the Inn where your workbench is... load... oops forgot an item... load 
 main area.... walk to yards to shop... load. I mean its realy realy bad. Make sure you have a Raptor 
 or other fast disk. pref have 2Gb of RAM.
  
  You will also find commands lag, and its very hard to target. Obdsidian have admitted this and 
 suggest you use Tab targetting as a work round. If there are 15 monsters you will need to tab though 
 them all.
  
  AI
  Lots of people complain about this, I don't find it as bad as peopel say... simply because there 
 is an option to totaly disable it. You WILL need to do this, or else NPC will do the most stupid 
 things, pull mobs, cast bad spells on you. Also they can de-target and stand there.
  
  I micro manage all the fights and control all NPC. Pers I like this since DnD is a pary based game. 
 But if you like to focus on the main charater you have been warned.
  
  SOUND
  This is OK, but be warned a lot of the old sounds have been re-used. I don't mind this so much 
 but some people do
  
  PROS
  The intro scene is very nice. Also the Star Music is good. Some of the cut scenes look OK, and 
 some of the characters are funny (if linear, you can't not have them join your party or it breaks 
 story for example) .
  
  Shadows can look nice, but this must be disabled on most system unless you want your PC to run 
 real slow, 5fps, some people report overheat and crashed. Dont think that it wont be you... it well 
 could be overheating is chronic in this game, though I have been mostly OK, with only a few 10 
 minute reboots (including long loading times etc)
  
  CONCLUSION
  Overall this is oviously a flawed release. Unfortnetly I don't think patching will help, since 
 there are flaws right from the early conception of this game (walkmeshes being an example) . In 
 my oppinion there is no way that Atari Obsidian can patch there way out of this. Also as a bad 
 sign, Atari have removed the development team onto another project, and now the Live Team are working 
 on it. With the core developers working on something else it bodes ill, but I don't think even 
 the developers could fix it in a meaningful amount of time.
  
  Don't expect to see any good users modules any time soon, and pretty much forget about multiplayer.
 
  
  I'm sorry but this is the truth. I was pretty exited about this release, but I would not say over 
 hyped, I'm 35 and don't realy buy into the hype of games. If if the graphics were dreadful but 
 it was good in other areas I could forgive it seriously. I've played D2, and some Stardock games 
 with terrible graphics, but they all made up for it, sadly NWN2 fails on to broad a front.
  
  I would advise you to save you money and not buy this game, but of couse the choice is yours. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reliantk81
Rating: 5.7
Date: Nov 26, 2006 11:56 am PT
Review:  I was looking forward to this game for quite a while. However, it is soon apparent this game needed 
 at least another year of development before hitting store shelves. The Good: excellent story and 
 characters.
  
  Alright now that we have that out of the way the Bad: horrid camera angles but this should be fixed 
 in patch 1.03. The ai is the make or break for your game play it can range from one character getting 
 stuck on an occasional to characters ceasing to function so you will have to tell all of them when 
 to move and attack which gets old fast when you main character runs into some monsters and the 
 rest of the party is standing around the dungeon entrance. I made it through 80% of the game when 
 my party ceased to function so now I can cross my fingers and restart the game and hope I finish 
 it next time or wait for a patch. Patch 1.03 is coming out soon but there is no fix for the ai 
 in it. The graphics are dated and remind me of Kotor 1 from 2003. They are not bad but not any 
 where near graphics from games being released today. And now the multiplayer: well if it worked 
 I would tell you. I first turned off my firewall and my friends did the same and all have direct 
 dsl so gamespy never connects on mine, 1 friend cannot create games, and another can't join or 
 have anyone join him. Kinda bad since multiplayer is what sold me on this game. I have been able 
 to direct connect via IP and skip gamespy but usually the game timed out in 10-20 minutes.
  
  So as a fan of the Baldur's gate series this was a major disapointment. Remember this is obsidians 
 second game period and the first was kotor 2 which they cut and pasted the engine and sound from. 
 They ran out of time in that one and had to scrap an ending movie. They had to cut stuff from NWN2 
 like before you could have relations with any opposite sex character and the dialogue is still 
 there but the actual relations have been cut down to 2 characters period. I think obsidian needs 
 to stop and just spend the time making a game because if they keep making half finished games it'll 
 ruin their reputation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: legatoistheman
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 26, 2006 10:58 am PT
Review:  Let me start out by saying this is a great game. It entertained me for 4 weeks. It is a little 
 easy, as my sorcerer could just use a aoe fire spell and kill almost everyone in a couple hits 
 though.
  
  The story is good as well.
  
  What I cant figure out though is the graphics. Let me start by saying what I have. I have windows 
 xp 64 pro. I have two opteron 280's (yes two opterons) Watercooling both with one zalman reserator 
 on a tyan s2895 mobo with 2 gigs of ram and two geforce 7800 GTX's running in SLI mode with a 21.3 
 inch samsuny syncmaster 214T monitor and a creative x-fi (400 dollar highest version) soundcard.
 
  
  I shudder to think that my machine plays oblivion on the highest settings in all its glory perfectly 
 and without any hitch at all and that when i turn the shadows on full in NWN 2 my game is rendered 
 unplayable. I dont know what the deal is with this. I do think however that if you are going to 
 develop a game and put it out you should make sure you get the most out of the graphics engine 
 before you put it out and make sure you understand it as well.
  
  Besides some horrible camera angles, dialouge glitches and the fact that their is a level 20 level 
 cap (which means you cant go very far in your prestige class) , and a multiplayer that i have no 
 idea how to connect to (I am not an expert on and do not play multiplayer a lot anyway) I say this 
 game is a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: a_beautiful_lie
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 26, 2006 10:13 am PT
Review:  I will say this for the people who say the game sucks, it really does for the first part. I mean 
 every game has to get started somehow and get characters introduced. Neverwinter Nights 2 does 
 a really bad job with the beginning. After you meet up with the first permanent character who will 
 travel with you (a dwarf named Khelgar) the game really picks up. It takes around 2 hours to get 
 to that point but that game is extremely lengthy anyway.
  
  After that the game really picks up. The influence over party members and interactions are a nice 
 touch that people who played KOTOR 2 will enjoy. Only problem is there's little to be gained from 
 them like there is in KOTOR 2 except for having everyone like you or dislike you.
  
  The plot is good, and eventually makes sense. It could be greatly streamlined. It's like a Tom 
 Clancy novel where there are ten things going on and eventually eight of them just drop away. It 
 becomes much more coherent later on. Overall it was a compelling story.
  
  The combat was fun. I made a melee character with a lot of social skills. The social interactions 
 with the world is quite enjoyable as well. Never tried a caster so I won't comment.
  
  There is one area of the game where it seems like the developers got bored and just wanted it to 
 end. No cutscenes. Nothing really at all except hack and slash with a little plot. That doesn't 
 go on for too long though then it picks up again.
  
  I've heard about this game running like crap but it doesn't on my computer and mine is midgrade.
 
  
  Overall a good game. A lot of play time in this one and it's enjoyable play time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: szilmarillion
Rating: 1.6
Date: Nov 26, 2006 6:17 am PT
Review:  It was one oft the year most wanted games, and I think it became the biggest disappointment. Let 
 me explain my scores:
  Gameplay: Not better, not worse then the first game. Lost of quests, some of really enjoyable or 
 funny. Its recommended to do the side quests as well to gain enough XP to kill the bosses.
  But the camera ruins everything. Perhaps the worst part of the game. You sometimes dont even know 
 where you are. 4 options, but none of them is really suit of your needs and it can be very annoying 
 very-very soon.
  Graphics: I got the first shock when I saw the system requirements. The second and biggest shock 
 came when I saw the graphics. OMG! Those Atari guys havent see the year best RPGs so far, Oblivion 
 or Gothic 3? I felt I play the addon of the first Neverwinter game which I like very much. Why 
 the big sys. req. if you get a graphic like this? Ive got the iron for it, but its just a waste 
 of resources if you ask me.
  Sound: Nothing to say about. Good effects, as it can be accepted for a RPG game.
  Value: Its 
 a D&amp; D game. For them its a Worth to try game.
  Reviewer's Tilt: What can I say. NWN was my favourite RPG as well as Icewind Dale, and Balgurs 
 Gate. I really waited for this game but I cant recommend this game to anyone. : ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stamatis
Rating: 6.9
Date: Nov 26, 2006 5:25 am PT
Review:  This game is definetely better than NW1 in terms of graphics, animations, models and placeables. 
 And so what?
  
  The development team has made no attempt to improve other areas such as sound and music. The fact 
 for example, that you hear the same combat sound effects and replies from your companions is very 
 disappointing.
  
  The things that they actually did try to fix, they actually made worse. The AI sucks, the map is 
 useless and the user interface forces you to click, right-click and then double-click... you get 
 the point. And I bet you've already heard the complains about the inventory management... All true 
 guys.
  
  I haven't played a lot into the single-player campaign yet (I spent the first week trying to make 
 the game playable by tweaking the graphic settings) , but so far it seems too linear. The maps are 
 also very small and the interaction is minimal. It's kinda boring, admittedly...
  
  I really hope that the community will deliver great modules, the same way they did with NW1. This 
 will be the only reason to buy this game. However, (although I'm not a builder) I believe that 
 the new engine is too heavy. That is obvious from the game's slow performance and could explain 
 the campaign's limited content.
  
  In conclusion, Obsidian made a lot of effort in adding content to NW, but they should have also 
 improved the game's mechanics that now seem too outdated. I wonder if there is a game company out 
 there who could combine D&amp; D's great set of rules and universe with Oblivion's realism and amazing 
 sense of freedom. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Drakken_Raed
Rating: 1.8
Date: Nov 25, 2006 11:02 pm PT
Review:  Don't waste your money on this game. They strayed from the whole purpose of NWN to be a game that 
 you can play with your friends. Online play is horrible, and there's no way for them to make it 
 better.
  
  The single player aspect was horrid as well. Blech graphics, crappy performance on a top-of-the-line 
 machine. NWN1 looked better IMO, and had much better and more varied animations. The UI is horrible 
 when compared to the ease of NWN.
  
  They did NOT include the scripting improvements that came in the later patches of NWN1.
  
  
 The story was ill conceived and poorly done.
  
  There was no improvement upon NWN.
  
  Don't waste your money like I did, please. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: autumnsun
Rating: 2.7
Date: Nov 25, 2006 9:42 pm PT
Review:  There just isn't enough of NWN2 to justify it as a classic or a reinvention of the original NWN. 
 The graphics are subpar along with the audio and especially the cut-scenes. All of the time when 
 one NPC is talking, has mutltiple lines, they do not flow together. The fact that you have a very 
 small purchase of land to walk on and then must load another small piece of land to travel is stupid. 
 I don; t care if anyone else thinks that the reloading is due to the great amount of graphics, I 
 say that they're so last year! I'm unbelevably bored with the game that I only play it for 30 minutes 
 a few times a week. This is the time when I wish I could take back a game to the store and get 
 my money back! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mortal888
Rating: 7.2
Date: Nov 25, 2006 9:33 pm PT
Review:  My specs: Alienware Area 51 m7700
  3.2 GB Pentium 4, 2.25 GB of 533mhz RAM, 7200 speed HD, GeForce 6800 256MB, 1680 res widescreen 
 LCD
  Great game, as good as the first one. The ability to be truly good and evil is more distinct and 
 with different outcomes. This is great for me as I usually like to play the evil character and 
 am usually turned off by the lack of acknowledgement of this by most games who give this option 
 such as Oblivion and KOTOR. The performance however is horrible and the camera is annoying at any 
 angle. I have a decent system that can run Oblivion with bloom at 1280 res. with a few performance 
 tweaks. However, for this game I not only have to turn off bloom, but also knock down just about 
 everything else to get this game to run smoothly. The voices still do not match the lipsync and 
 if the lipsync finishes first, the audio cuts off and goes to the next track. The camera constantly 
 drifts, even on drive mode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: broknlink
Rating: 4.2
Date: Nov 25, 2006 8:09 pm PT
Review:  I was excited to try this game and very let down when I got it. I compared ratings to other games 
 I was interested in and chose this one as a result. That was a mistake. I'm a long time DnD player, 
 Icewind Dale, Baldur's Gate, PnP, and the first NWN (which also didn't keep my attention enough 
 to want to finish the game) This game was pretty much the same as NWN, but started slower, so I 
 lost interest FAST. If I'm spending 50 bucks on a game, I want to have fun the whole time playing 
 it... not get bored after my first 5 hours or so. They had a good thing going with Baldur's Gate 
 II and Icewind Dale, but since Atari took over... blech! I hate to say that... being an old school 
 Atari fan... but hey, my boredom speaks for itself. Graphics were weak, interaction pretty weak... 
 and the game seemed pretty thrown-together. Sorry to write a bad review, but I wouldn't want anyone 
 else wasting their money here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Euripides
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 21, 2006 3:04 pm PT
Review:  Though I have not finished the campaign yet, I have played up to level 16 until now so I assume 
 I have seen a lot. Ok the game is ok. You want regret buying it. But for me a good story with clear 
 motivations for your character is the fundamental component of a single player RPG. (I this respect 
 for example I think KOTOR 1 was a model) . In the present case the scenario is to chaotic and unmotivating. 
 I really have not understood what my motivations are in the story. I really dont feel the urge 
 to play more to see the story unfolding. I just play a few hours every 2-3 days to , but that is 
 all. Otherwise it is a good RPG. I hope the community will produce some better and more engaging 
 modules. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxxkgnb
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 25, 2006 10:14 am PT
Review:  Well this is an improvement over the first Neverwinter series. Loads of content, great storyline 
 with quests to match. The rules blend well with whatever toon your making and the game itself has 
 good length. On the downside, I felt the graphics are only average but the artwork is amazing. 
 No fighting Cookie monsters in the Neverwinter series; which by the way, is appreciated! Neverwinter 
 at least makes an attempt to try and bring this fantasy world to where D&amp; D, Baldur's Gate and 
 Icewind Dale have previously laid path too. The camera in the game can be frustrating at times 
 but nothing major there and the different areas still have load times, guess we are not passed 
 that yet. Music is pretty good to fair but the one item I wish they would have changed is the paste 
 and copy feel to the world. Eliminate the load screens and bring the world alive using little repetition 
 in creating creatures, items and areas. One last thing, really bored of fighting stationary mobs 
 that are just standing in the same spot doing nothing! If you walk into a room full of Necromancers 
 can they at least be conjuring something, orcs roasting a pig over a fire or goblins torturing 
 a slave, anything at all would be just grand XD. NWN2 does become more enjoyable to play as the 
 game progresses, a huge plus. Good game, but I can't wait for Dragon Age. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vfibsux
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 5, 2006 2:38 pm PT
Review:  If you liked the first Neverwinter you will like this one. Great story that keeps your interest 
 along with RPG elements expected from a D&amp; D game. Does a great job of immersing you into the 
 story and the people around you. The personalities of the characters you will meet and pick up 
 in your party are outstanding. The voice acting adds to this. Just a great story that really moves 
 the game along.
  
  EDIT: The following was prior to latest patch, performance issues fixed. Now the bad. The performance 
 is TERRIBLE. My PC, which to be brief has 2 7900GT's in it, chokes on this game's coding. The game 
 recommended setup even maxed everything out for me, no way. The game is chopping as hell on max 
 settings, whereas I can run games such as Oblivion and Dark Messiah maxed out and beautiful flawlessly. 
 I have had to take the resolution down as well as about every other setting to it's respective 
 medium range. Terrible performance for graphics that are ok, but not good enough to warrant this! 
 Fortunately you can turn many settings off or down and the game still looks decent. Luckily the 
 story makes you forget about it.
  
  The second problem is the camera and controls. You are constantly having to pan the camera around 
 your character to see anything, the point and click mouse movement along with this camera is very 
 frustrating. Interior views are especially annoying when you get stuck staring at the other side 
 of a wall or whatever. I found chase mode works best for me. Still awkward and frustrating, esp 
 inside.
  
  I say get the game, but be ready for the crap, if you expect it then you can just turn the detail 
 way down, struggle with the camera, and enjoy. Try at least. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Laurana88
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 24, 2006 2:50 pm PT
Review:  Really good story with NWN2! I am looking forward to expansions. only real complaint is that my 
 computer is only about 2 years old and is just under 3.0 ghz. It is somewhat slow and the loading 
 times are VERY slow. I have played both NWN and Icewind Dale plus all the expansions so I have 
 always loved the series. This will not dissapoint lovers of the series. Just be aware that it is 
 designed for the latest systems and cards. I would also like to see the ability to design the entire 
 party rather than just the main character in one of these but I can appreciate the entertainment 
 value of meeting your party as you go along. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Khale77
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 22, 2006 9:21 pm PT
Review:  Starting off this game, immediatly, you are immersed in the depth and greatness of the game. Personally, 
 i spent a long time making my first character, thinking about all the different races and subraces 
 i could choose from, all the different character classes to pick from, and the many other interesting 
 details that make up the creation of the character.
  
  The plot starts off quite standard, yes, but as you get into the game, it becomes quite interesting. 
 This game is very story driven all in all, and although the combat can become quite repetitive 
 at some points, the interesting abilities and characters make up for this more than needed. The 
 character AI, admittidly, is quite awful. The characters themselves, though, are quite interesting. 
 You will find yourself growing to greatly like (or dislike) the characters in this game. They can 
 be quite funny at times as well, and all their side quests can be both fun and rewarding. You wont 
 find yourself picking the same group every time either, because every character has their strengths 
 that you can think about before embarking on your adventure. Despite all its flaws, there is a 
 very good chance you will be sucked into NVN 2, and its definatly worth picking up if you didn't 
 get your grubby paws on a PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kweeky
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 22, 2006 8:29 am PT
Review:  GOOD:
  =====================================
  * Immersive and vibrant single player campaign that really opens up in Act II.
  * The Aurora 
 Toolset is simply the best modding tool for *any* game.
  * When the player modules begin to release, replay value is immense.
  * Companions have returned! 
 Deep and rich BG2/KOTOR style interaction between the player and the party.
  * Great interpretation of the Swords Coast Campaign Setting.
  
  SWAY:
  =====================================
 
  * It is *definitely* not a hack-and-slash.
  * Obsidian have released a lot of updates already and have pledged more. If Obsidian keep to their 
 word, NWN2 will be a long-lasting game.
  
  BAD:
  =====================================
  * Badly optimised at vanilla release and although patches have addressed a few issues, FPS still 
 leaves a *lot* to be desired.
  * Interface is clumsy at first, and whilst it grows on you, it remains very unnatural and unintuitive.
 
  * Until more patches come out, the game is essentially as stable as a beta release. Class A defects 
 (i. e. crash to desktops) were shipped and still haven't been patched.
  
  WORDS:
  =====================================
  NWN2 is an incredibly infuriating masterpiece. Whilst 
 it builds on its predecessor for facilitating rich-player created content and offering a decent-sized 
 single player campaign and fantastic multiplayer options, the game has been shipped with so many 
 bugs you have to question if Obsidian even hired a QA team.
  
  The technical difficulties aside, there is a rich, vibrant and beautiful game there that hardcore 
 RPGers will love. There isn't much instant gratification and you will be more than likely spending 
 a lot of time in deep dialogue. I cannot reveal much about the single-player campaign, but I can 
 tell you that it has some interesting and brilliant moments, but also some dull and seemingly unfinished 
 or rushed areas.
  
  Needless to say, NWN2 will be here for a while, and its modding community will flourish and produce 
 fantastic results. As far as creating content goes, the Aurora Toolset is not as easy to use as 
 its predecessor, but it certainly comes with a lot more power (and the occasional crash *sigh*) .
 
  
  In conclusion, NWN2 will be one of my most loved games this year, as the infuriating framerate 
 and occasional crash has ceased to annoy me as much as it did. If you can put aside the technical 
 issues, you may find a wonderful game that will appeal to you and draw you away from many hours 
 of your spare time! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deano
Rating: 5.8
Date: Nov 22, 2006 3:41 am PT
Review:  Well I was really looking forward to nwn 2 but it seems obsidian yet again like to rush out an 
 unfinished product. I'll jump right into the problems,
  
  The AI that controls your party is absolutely terrible, when they aren't casting fireballs into 
 the middle of your party they are running off to attack enemies that you haven't even engaged yet. 
 I've had party members run into rooms I haven't even been to yet to mindlessly engage some monster. 
 What this means is for every half decent battle you can't let your AI control any party member 
 that casts a spell. They'll also happily stop attacking in the middle of a fight and stand around 
 while other party members are being beat down. What it all results to is constant unnecessary mico 
 management that needs to be done.
  
  Pathing problems are shocking, trying to navigate a simple winding cavern is having to constantly 
 wait for your party members getting stuck on corners and clipping into walls. Your party members 
 will also periodically refuse to move and in combat I'd often find them unresponsive and would 
 not cast any spells.
  
  I also encountered a few major bugs that meant I was unable to progress any further in the game 
 until I searched arond the internet for script codes.
  
  The graphics are good but this game is such a system hog, especially indoors, I can run far more 
 graphic intensive games faster than this.
  
  They've also recycled pretty much all the NWN 1 sounds and music which gets annoying after a while 
 as i've heard it all before. It has an intersting story with lots of dialogue but it just seems 
 to be lacking a strong lead character besides the player character (thinking bastilla from kotor 
 or aribeth from nwn)
  
  I'm not looking forward to anymore obsidian games, they managed to screw up both the kotor and 
 nwn sequels. I'm just hoping bioware takes back to developing their own sequels.
  
  It could have been a decent game but with such poor AI and clunky controls it was just such a chore 
 to finish. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elvenglade
Rating: 5.7
Date: Nov 21, 2006 8:27 pm PT
Review:  First, I have played and enjoyed both Icewind Dales and both KOTORs, as well as most good RPGs, 
 so Im not some dumb ass kid who gives bad reviews because he doesn't know how to play. NWN 2 had 
 me really psyched because I heard the first one was good but the graphics were outdated. I waited 
 and got let down, and this is why:
  
  Gameplay - This is what makes the game unplayable. The camera is slow and screwy, party members 
 stop moving or stop fighting randomly, spell casting is unnecessary and useless, since your guy 
 finishes casting long after the target dies and usually just injures other party members. Speech 
 options are pretty limited, not like in KOTOR where you chose from like 6 options every time. Inventory 
 is nothing new, not that that's really bad. So much more wrong, but you know most of it by now.
 
  
  Graphics - My computer can run the game on medium settings, but it still looks like Icewind Dale 
 I or a PSP game. I tried it on high and they do look good but worse than games have for the past 
 2 or 3 years.
  
  Sound - The voice acting and background music are good, not Oblivion or LotR good, but hey.
  
 
  Overall, it's not worth getting. I downloaded the demo for NWN I and thought it was a hellovah 
 lot better, except you cant pick subraces like drow. If I had a $5000 Alienware all decked out 
 and whatnot, then yeah, I'd prolly keep playing... prolly. I tried to like this game and even started 
 learning the toolset, but what's the point if playing user-made mods is frustrating and shallow? 
 I'm sure DnD fans will like it because they have kick ass imaginations (they'd have to to be able 
 to play with paper and numbers ;) and can try to make something of this... thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madglee
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 21, 2006 6:45 pm PT
Review:  Below was my review a few weeks back. I pushed forward and have been pleasantly surprised. What 
 follows is a bit of a reponse to my earlier criticisms.
  
  This game is reasonably fun, with decent graphics and nice voice acting. Unfortunately, the following 
 numbered items really take away from the experience. And by really take away, I mean destroy. Alas, 
 let's wait for Gothic 3.
  
  1) Game won't start half the time because of the anti-piracy stuff on it, even though I bought 
 the game. People have been posting about this issue for a week now and NOT ONE DEV HAS RESPONDED. 
 That is really poor, poor, support.
  [The lack of support is still maddening, but going straight to SecuRom fixes it. They responded 
 to my email within a couple hours and sent me a fix which worked.]
  
  2) Plays slowly. I have a nice rig, not bothering to post the specs, it's nice. And the game lags 
 - not terribly, but enough for me to say, what? It's not that nice looking, why is it lagging? 
 
  [Still slower than I'd like, but I have all the setting nearly maxed and it's playing great. Maybe 
 the update did it, maybe the common tweak going around for the .ini file did it. Whichever, much 
 more fluid.]
  
  3) Too easy, once again. Get a mage and cast fireball over and over and everything dies. Sure, 
 I can turn up the difficulty and watch my party members charge into battle to die. Only option? 
 Turn on puppet mode and have a micro-management fest so your mage won't fireball the party.
  
  4) So I can do anything I want, play evil or good? Why is it then, that I'm decently far into 
 the campaign and there hasn't been even ONE evil NPC? I'm still traveling with a good dwarf and 
 two neutrals. Hell, a paladin was even willing to group with my evil butt for as long as I wanted. 
 Blech.
  [Still annoying that the good guys will group with me, but there is at least one evil companion 
 possible.]
  
  5) The toolset is slow as hell. The help file is vague at best. I can barely even figure out how 
 to paint terrain inside the programming walls of this ugly program. Was immediately turned off 
 by it.
  [Still true. Maddening looking thing.]
  
  6) Skills like darkvision don't even seem to do anything.
  [Still true but I sort of got past 
 this. Darkvision sucks anyway.]
  
  7) The story is somewhat interesting, but the quests get boring quickly. Want to go here? Then 
 kill, steal, or rescue X. Where kill, intimidate, and steal are secretly EVIL, NEUTRAL, GOOD. No 
 shades of gray in morality. Cutscenes are nice, with foreboding characters, but see #3.
  [This is the biggest change. True, a lot of the early quests seem like the above, but the game 
 gets brilliant at parts. Wonderful story with exciting sequences that you can participate in. Really, 
 really picked up after like the first five hours of play. Loving it. The morality thing is still 
 pretty annoying. The evil character you can group wtih is just rude and an a real ass, the good 
 characters are generally all sweet, and the neutral in between. Choices that make you sway to lawful/chaotic/good/neutral 
 seem almost arbitrary and without any depth of thought. Still, I got over it.] ]
  
  I'm very sad. I looked forward to this game, especially since BG II was one of my favorites. Apparently 
 BG II, Fallout series, and Planescape will never be outdone, not to mention matched.
  [I'm not that sad. I'm enjoying it. Not as good as any of the above mentioned, but better than 
 decent and one of the better RPGs in a while. I'd say it's on par with Oblivion in certain aspects.]
 
  
  I've been very objective here, and I would say that you should wait until the price goes down to 
 purchase this game, if at all.
  [I'd definitely buy this game if you are an RPG fan, but do wait until prices drop, more patches 
 come out, or modules start appearing, unless you have an extra 50 bux, in which case, buy it!] 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vampiredust99
Rating: 6.9
Date: Nov 21, 2006 2:14 pm PT
Review:  Neverwinter Nights 2 is the sequel to Neverwinter Nights, one of the best RPG's to ever exist on 
 the PC. NN2 shares much of its predecessors best qualities: a good story, great story, good gameplay... and 
 its weak graphics and camera.
  
  Compared to RPG's like Oblivion, NN2 is graphically weak. Textures look awful and it looks rushed 
 in that aspect. The camera is awful and you often have to tweak it. Playing the game can be frustrating 
 at times, the game has a tendency to twist your viewpoint at times, so it can be confusing trying 
 to go the right way. One high point is the music. It sounds awesome and is very atmospheric at 
 times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jomirogui
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 21, 2006 9:58 am PT
Review:  Very good game
  Compelling story will keep you hooked for the entire 50-plus hours it takes to finish the single-player 
 campaign; full-featured toolset lets you easily create and share new modules; this is just about 
 the most authentic representation of dungeons &amp; dragons you'll find in any game; excellent 
 music and mostly well-done voice acting; the interactive dialogue and influence system make for 
 dynamic and entertaining character interactions.
  
  Very good game
  Compelling story will keep you hooked for the entire 50-plus hours it takes to finish the single-player 
 campaign; full-featured toolset lets you easily create and share new modules; this is just about 
 the most authentic representation of dungeons &amp; dragons you'll find in any game; excellent 
 music and mostly well-done voice acting; the interactive dialogue and influence system make for 
 dynamic and entertaining character interactions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Da_ganja
Rating: 6.3
Date: Nov 21, 2006 4:44 am PT
Review:  Neverwinter Nights 2 feels like the old, just with an update to the graphics. The charges are relatively 
 small, like one new class and several uninteresting prestige classes. Naturally there is a new 
 campaign, that quickly unfolds to a go there, kill this, return here, repeat and so on. Furthermore 
 the game is filled with bugs and you'll have to wait about half an hour to play, because of the 
 huge patch. The graphic is okay, but does not compete with games like Oblivion, and the animations 
 feels a bit odd at times, especially when you're running. The character-voices are exactly the 
 same as in the last game and music hasnt changed much either.
  
  There are some pros of course. The toolset is great! Tiles are now gone, and you can finally create 
 the areas (almost) just as you want them. The games seems very fit for multiplayer, but the campaign 
 only allows one party and that is extremely annoying. I had expected more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kinthalis
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 15, 2008 8:24 am PT
Review:  Neverwinter nights improves upon it's ground breaking predecessor in several ways.
  
  First, the campaign the game ships with (the OC) is leaps and bounds more interesting, engaging, 
 and entertaining than Bioware's first attempt. The writing is first rate, the characters are full 
 of personality and truly come alive as the campaign progresses. The plot and pace of the campaign 
 itself is excellent and on par with Baldur's Gate and the original KOTOR.
  
  Secondly, the graphics and art assets are all top notch. Not quite cutting edge technology but 
 still excellent and a vast improvement over the original NWN.
  
  Lastly, the toolset, the heart of what NWN stands for is a wonderful step forward. The learning 
 curve is steeper, but the result is that you are truly only limited by your imagination and your 
 available time.
  
  All and all NWN 2 is a great game, a worthy sequel and one of the best RPG's to be released this 
 year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bballplaya1192
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 20, 2006 12:45 pm PT
Review:  I have only played the single player campaign, but that alone has made the purchase worth it for 
 me. The story, sound, dialogue, and gameplay are all amazing and immersive and they make up for 
 the subpar performance and graphics (only get 20-30fps with 7600gt, 1GB ram, AMD dual core @ 2.4) . 
 The campaign is very long and should keep you preoccupied for quite some time. There is also multi 
 player and modules which I hear are the best parts of the game and I have not even got to them 
 yet. A long story short, buy this game even if you only play the single player.
  
  Go and buy NWN2! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wanted_police
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 20, 2006 11:33 am PT
Review:  I have been waiting for neverwinter nights 2 since i finished its prequel. This game is awesome 
 and will keep you hooked for a long time. it has great storyline which uncovers as you proceed 
 through the game and most of all, its even better than neverwinter nights ! People at Obsidian 
 have done a great work this time. This game totally satisfies you to the fullest, and trust me, 
 its worth playing. For people who havent played the earlier game need not worry, this is the game 
 any gamer would not like to miss. For people reading this review here.. don't waste your time here 
 get your hands on the game right away 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darinhyatt
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 19, 2006 10:20 pm PT
Review:  The good news is that this game deserves the title of Neverwinter. It is a good game that could 
 have been great. There are 2 main problems. The first is that the development team clearly didn't 
 know very much about the technical programing. It requires huge resources for no reason, requires 
 insanely long and frequent load times, and has tons of technical bugs. The programers get a D- 
 in my book..... clearly not first rate gaming programers here.
  
  The second is that half the game is cut out..... it is not finished!!! Ok, I could write small book 
 on this one, but let me just give you a couple big examples: First, I've seen better endings on 
 board games. They clearly didn't have an ending by the game deadline and slapped this together 
 in an afternoon. After much professional voice actors in the game, you get a guys off the street 
 who they told to read something into a $5 mic for your ending. Secondly, there is no evil path. 
 There are a few evil options throughout the game but you can't continue the path the second half 
 of the game (when you get your keep) . You cannot build the keep by any evil means. You have to 
 be good the second half of the game.
  
  Thirdly, there is only 1 romance option, when they clearly designed others and dropped them. Just 
 like they clearly designed an evil path and then released it partially finished.
  
  So, it is a good game, but will never be great unless they bring in some first rate programmers 
 to fix the tech issues, and allow team to actually finish the game as intended. Both of which are 
 unlikely to happen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikewarlover
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 19, 2006 5:47 pm PT
Review:  This game is very good but is undermined by a lot of technical and ai problems. The graphics are 
 good but the system requirements for its graphics seems to be a little on the high side. The scenery 
 and spells look quite nice though. I found the characters sometimes get stuck and also the ai just 
 pissed me off. They are not designed very well and often run straight into a battle foolishly. 
 They also use too many spells and in general are very dumb. You can however turn the ai off but 
 i found it to be too much work controlling all the characters in your group. The interface was 
 also lacking some organization. The storyline is good and you can influence other people and you 
 can change throughout the game. My only wish here is that you can persuade some of the characters 
 to be more like your main character. The sound is good but nothing special except that you get 
 to make your own voice. Besides the technial issues, the steep system requirements and the interface, 
 this game is excellent. O wait, the way cameras work in this game suck too and i wish theres a 
 mode where you can go first person and use wasd for movement. Haven't played multiplayer yet so 
 don't know what it's like and I'm too lazy for the toolset so ya. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jakybuddy
Rating: 6.8
Date: Nov 19, 2006 2:24 pm PT
Review:  NWN2 was a relatively entertaining game although it was bit too much like NWNI and the Baldurs 
 gate/Icewind Dale series - all great games but now yesterdays news. Graphics were a definate improvement, 
 sound and music were wonderful supplements and the change in perspective was a nice alternative 
 from top down view only. Movement within the game lacks a certain smoothness inherent to the recent 
 RPG game engines, even for the most 'state of the art' PCs. NPC party members appear to act with 
 more intelligence and the fact that you can modify their behavior was a nice addition. The story 
 line is very in depth and will captivate the hard core RPGers. It is, however, very text heavy 
 and can be a little daunting and annoying at times The game had a lot of potential and perhaps 
 would have been a much bigger hit, for me, had Turbine's DDO and Obsdian's NWN2 merged to create 
 a more epic MMORPG. Perhaps even enough to have dethrowned WoW. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eroded_Zyrus
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 19, 2006 5:30 am PT
Review:  To Begin with, I know I've already reviewed the game but when i tried to edit it, it kinda well, 
 deleted itself unsure why. Oh well, here's the new improved review.
  
  To begin with I think i'll give my opinion on the whole OMG NWN2 Sux for the Incompleteness!! :O 
 escapade that seems to be running rampant at the moment. When Neverwinter Nights 1 was released 
 it got the exact same ratings and bashings, but after careful patching and community input the 
 game evolved into the NWN we all know and loved. Also people are failing to grasp the concept of 
 the game not only being the single player campaign, but there is a multiplayer side to it aswell 
 (though thats not really took off yet though, but give it a few months) and the side of people 
 making there own Modules and Campaigns. This game is as expansive as it gets really, people just 
 need to be patient and wait for the community to blossom and fire out their own created stuff. 
 Summary: Wait a few months for the community to Evolve!
  
  Now onto the main events
  
  Gameplay!
  
  First off the bat, the Camera. Yes it can get annoying, but in all honestly how 
 can you make a camera in an Roleplaying game any different? Make it like KOTOR is possibly what 
 some of you are thinking, what happens when you take this game online then, where your locked into 
 looking only forward? This would make the game like looking through a letter box. To be frank the 
 camera is exactly the same as it was in nwn1 so i cant see where the problem is arising, but heck 
 in this day and age where smoother is better they could have actually took some player input and 
 made it a bit more ergonomic, but hey they'll most likely end up patching it soon. The actual gameplay 
 itself is enjoyable and to the point, yes i know battle take forever, but thats hat the game system 
 its design off is like, don't like it? move to a different game, thats all i can say. Summary: 
 Same gameplay as the first but with improvements.
  
  Sound!
  
  Now onto the sound, as some of the players of the original have noticed that the sound and music 
 is somewhat regurgitated but to that all i can say is well, don't fix whats not broken. The original 
 soundtrack and set of sound effects in the original where great and now with added improvements 
 it makes the player feel as though Yes, this is the same game i played for all those years, but 
 with a new feel to it which i quite like. Summary: Great soundtrack and didn't need to be fixed 
 in the first place. Graphics!
  
  Well apart from the camera the graphics for this game have roused up the biggest fuss. I personally 
 think that they are better than the gamespot team let on, sure they're not oblivion graphics but 
 for a game of this calibur who needs them? I agree with the performance issues though, i have an 
 above par system and at most can hit 30fps which is better than some I've read about. The thing 
 with this game is that they've done something that most games should now be thinking of, Future-Proofing 
 thier graphics engine. When i was playing on my Roleplaying server on nwn1 most of the people started 
 leaving because of the poor graphics and moved to more appealing games like WoW. I'm happy to see 
 that with nwn2 this wont begin to happen after a long time because well with future-proofed graphics 
 this game will continue to appeal even after a few years. Summary: Graphics quality not the best, 
 but kudos to future-proofing 
  
  Single-Player!
  
  I'll wrap this up with a short review of the SP campaign. Well what can i say, to begin with I 
 found it quite immersive and fun, but as the game progressed i found i was disliking it more and 
 more until near the end where it got more interesting. Though the SP campaign itself is a lot more 
 interesting than the SP campaign of the first, I do feel as though they could have done a lot more 
 than Try to make a KOTOR in a DnD world and falling short. Well there it be, my Review V2! for 
 those of you that read the first a few opinions have changed but overall its still the same! until 
 my next rantings, Chao. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pksnu91
Rating: 5.8
Date: Dec 20, 2006 7:18 pm PT
Review:  Note: I have completed the single-player campaign, and have some additional thoughts at the end 
 of this review (added 12-20-06) . Also I corrected some typos (so here's an amusing side note: Apple's 
 Text Edit app suggests Bladder's as a replacement for Baldur's... hmmm... Bladder's Gate... could 
 be a whole new genre) .
  
  Gameplay: AI -- Overall I found that the AI forced me to micro-manage my party. In short, the AI 
 was a constant irritant until I set my characters to puppet mode. If you don't and are on hardcore 
 rules or harder, expect your spellcasters to cast numerous area-effect spells that will unfortunately 
 damage or hinder your front-line characters as much as your enemies. Some characters will also 
 trigger traps with annoying regularity as they charge into encounters before you've even spotted 
 an enemy.
  
  Camera -- In NWN, I rarely switched camera modes, sticking to the top-down view with a perspective 
 similar to that of the BG series. In NWN2, however, I spend an inordinate amount of time fiddling 
 with it to get a better view. Any level with a significant uphill slope led to a huge amount of 
 reorienting the camera to see what lay ahead.
  
  Oddities -- There were levels where enemies would spawn in large numbers behind me, in rooms I had 
 just cleared, when I spotted enemies further down a hallway. At one point it seemed to me that 
 Orcs were breeding awfully fast without any women around. Other times, enemies just walked around 
 while I hacked them to death. What's worse, the rest mechanic basically allows you to finish an 
 encounter, get back to full strength, and proceed to the next encounter, eliminating the challenge 
 of conserving your spells or special abilities to survive the entire level. Only in a few areas 
 are you not allowed to rest, which in those areas was ultimately silly because you could simply 
 transition to the previous area to rest up.
  
  Graphics:
  
  Image Quality -- While the graphics are certainly better than those of NWN, at all but the highest 
 texture settings the environments and characters looked decidedly blocky. Oh sure, not on the level 
 of Descent to Undermountain, but I was starting to wonder if the same team programmed it.
  
  Frame Rate -- One word: DISMAL. At first, I was running the game on a system that exceeded recommended 
 specs except for the video card, which fell somewhere between required and recommended. The game 
 was essentially unplayable with that system configuration, even at the lowest of all quality settings. 
 In some areas the frame rate was around 1-4 fps, and load/save times gave me plenty of time to 
 do other things like cook dinner, sort laundry and other responsible adult things that are normally 
 forgotten when immersed in a great game. After two days I broke down and upgraded the video card 
 to above the recommended specs (so now the game has essentially cost me $250) . Even with a system 
 that exceeds recommended specs in every way, the game can grind down to around 15 fps in some of 
 the more graphically challenging outdoor areas, even with many settings turned down (especially 
 shadows) .
  
  Technical Issues -- At times, no matter what settings I used the rendering engine failed to, well, 
 render things. For example with shadows, the game failed to render them at all on several maps. 
 In other instances enemies literally slid towards my characters rather than employing a walk animation. 
 And then there are the crashes. At one point during a loading screen I saw Tip: Save early, save 
 often. Sound advice, not because the next encounter might be your last, but rather the game crashes 
 so frequently that I seldom can survive two or three encounters without it quitting to the desktop 
 (yes I am using the latest video drivers) . Irritating to say the least. Frankly I haven't played 
 the game in a week because I was so sick of the constant crashing, which is getting worse the further 
 I get into the story. Can't wait for the third patch (yes, third, and the game has only been out 
 for three weeks!) .
  
  Sound:
  
  Music -- Lets just say it isn't very original. Many themes are taken directly from the first game, 
 and some of the new ones leave me wondering whether Howard Shore will be getting a royalty check 
 for the blatant LOTR ripoffs.
  
  Voice Acting -- In general, the acting is top-notch, but I still wonder in DnD games why every Dwarf 
 is a Scotsman, every thief is Cockney and every noble is a pompous British aristocrat. Moreover, 
 when selecting your character sounds, the game had a very recycled from NWN feel to it.
  
  Glitches -- As with the original NWN, the use of EAX with a Creative Labs card will cause a crash 
 every fifteen minutes. More often than not, this happens right as you strike that final blow in 
 a particularly long and tense battle, forcing you to reload and fight the battle over.
  
  Single-Player Campaign:
  
  World Map -- I love it, but this is the only place where I feel the 
 story isn't linear in nature.
  
  Individual Levels -- The levels feel far too linear. Even when there is more than one path to the 
 boss battle (only in the sense that two is more than one) , it seems there is little of interest 
 to explore off the main path. Some character-related sidequests seemed buggy (in one case, after 
 killing Moire, there she was in another building, as if the alternate way to enter Blacklake didn't 
 lock out once you choose the Watchman path) .
  
  Story -- The plot is much more interesting than the original NWN, but lacks the sense of discovery 
 of the Baldur's Gate series. I liked the stronghold but it seemed that construction events took 
 place too rapidly (a plot necessity, to be sure, but how realistic is it to start construction, 
 walk into the keep, have one conversation, emerge and voila! its done?) . There was no character 
 development of the ultimate villain, a la Jon Irenicus or Kreia. The King of Shadows was just set 
 up as this uber-badass that only you can defeat, blah blah blah. Even his backstory wasn't particularly 
 motivating. Finally, I felt the plot borrowed too much from LOTR. Let's see, there's a reforged 
 sword, an ancient villain who is this close to reforming corporeally and will be the doom of everyone, 
 the defense of a fortress against an army of evil, not to mention the sense that you are the only 
 one who can carry the ring, I mean wield the sword, oh forget it, you get the point.
  
  Characters -- The characters have little depth and in their interaction cutscenes everything feels 
 like A Tale of Two Stereotypes. I was hoping for at least one romance interaction but these are 
 either nonexistent or too obscure to be worth pursuing. I guess I wanted a little Jaheira/Aerie/Viconia 
 cat fight, oh wait, wrong game. Not that its all bad, the dialog was generally pretty good and 
 made most of the conversation trees have apparent depth, but there weren't enough morally vague 
 situations to deal with or real repercussions for behaving against your alignment to achieve a 
 goal (for example, if you played as a Paladin and finished Neeshka's quest, or, oh, I don't know, 
 decided to knowingly travel with a Chaotic Evil character like Bishop) . And I want to know, are 
 all arcanists this snippy? Is it in the job description to insult or condescend to everyone? Fortunately 
 there was Mr. Ironfist, who actually had to learn something if you decided to take up his Monk 
 quest (although when I finally turned him into a monk, he started over as a fresh character instead 
 of retaining all of his previously gained feats... did someone wipe his mind with the force? Oh, 
 again, wrong game) . I kept hoping Minsc or Deekin would show up in my party, because that Gnomish 
 Bard comic relief needed to be smacked. At least the developers had the guts to kill a companion 
 (Shandra) which forced me to rethink my strategies in the next act when I was down one tank character.
 
  
  Toolset:
  
  Definitely an improvement over the original NWN, and the one thing that makes the game worth $50. 
 Finally you can design areas with gentle slopes, abundant trees and interesting geography. Of course 
 it's up to you to write a compelling story with equally compelling characters, isn't it? Try not 
 to be too derivative along the way.
  
  Overall:
  
  Like Kevin Kline's character said in A Fish Called Wanda: Disappointed! That really pertains to 
 the frequent crashes, poor rendering engine and overall haven't I seen this plot somewhere before? 
 feeling. Still, there is enough potential in the toolset and community involvement to make this 
 a worthwhile purchase, assuming Obsidian can patch the game well enough to make for a better playing 
 experience. Now, let's hope that Planescape trilogy coming out will live up to the hype.
  
  Final Thoughts (Added 12-20-06) :
  
  After becoming frustrated with the frequent crashes (particularly 
 after winning a long battle) , I stopped playing the game for over two weeks and waited for the 
 1.03 patch, hoping it would resolve many of the problems I'd encountered. Happily, it greatly reduced 
 the number of crashes I experienced and made many areas more playable with a better frame rate 
 (especially where trees were in abundance) . For that reason I've tweaked my graphics score upward 
 from 4 to 6. It would have been a little higher, but the game still slows to a crawl in many areas 
 in Act III. Additionally, the game should have been released at this level of quality rather than 
 the way it actually shipped.
  
  Now I have to turn to the game's ending, which I will not spoil here but again, I was disappointed. 
 To begin with, the narrator seemed a bit out-of-place. His voice was not very dramatic and while 
 he is a fine reader, I was expecting a voice with a darker timbre, to lend some added authority 
 to the reading of the script. And then there's the script... I was most unsatisfied with the resolution 
 what became of the party after the battle. While I accept that not all endings are perfect Hollywood 
 good triumphs over evil and everyone lives happily ever after, one of the rewards of playing a 
 game to its conclusion is the sense of satisfaction you get from coming out on top. This ending 
 was deprived me of that satisfaction and although it opens the door to an expansion pack, there 
 was hardly a sense of accomplishment or resolution after defeating the King of Shadows, at least 
 not for the main characters. Supporting characters like Bevil are given equal or more resolution 
 than the main party members and this is a shame. Maybe I was expecting something similar to (and 
 spoiled by) the ending of Throne of Bhaal, where every character had their own resolution, but 
 this game seemed hollow in that regard. Perhaps they will tie up all the loose ends in an expansion 
 pack. One can only hope. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bireno
Rating: 5.2
Date: Nov 18, 2006 4:38 pm PT
Review:  This game could be oh so much more.. It was impossible for me to enjoy the game, constantly fighting 
 with the camera, trying to get my char to kill mobs, and instead having him initiate a conversation 
 with one of the npc's or team members.. Having to deal with poor performance, shoddy graphics and 
 insane/frequent loading times also killed the game for me.
  
  Positive points: Many races, classes &amp; special classes you'd come to expect from the NWN series, 
 that's a major plus.. The music in the game is cool for a while until you start hearing the same 
 thing over and over.. Sadly, that's about all I can think of.
  
  I couldn't finish the game; in fact... I only got about 2 hours in to the game before I couldn't 
 take it any more. It's going back on the shelf until a control/camera/performance update is released. 
 I'm greatly disappointed with how this game turned out; I was so excited during the long install 
 &amp; all those months of waiting for it to come out... but in the end, it was all one major disappointment. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SlightSling
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 19, 2006 4:01 pm PT
Review:  The long awaited release of NWN has finally come and is better than ever.
  
  The start of the game is a bit slow, and the requirments for this title might seem a little high, 
 but nothing that turning the shadows a little lower won't fix. Trust me, you won't notice much 
 a difference.
  
  The sheer variety of races, sub-races, nearly any class combo you can think of adds a great amount 
 of immersion, not to mention all the lore with the table top. Picked a drow? You might just befriend 
 a spider. Dwarven monks? Well, he isn't the hand of death, but is as good as it gets.
  
  Obsidian worked to create the KOTOR games and it shows, influence system, dynamic reactions, and 
 a choice that has a long lasting impact on the rest of the game.
  
  The best part? Your own keep. Lord over your land, make the roads safer, and show the land just 
 who commands the Grey Cloaks.
  
  The camera is jerky, and it takes some getting used to, but the same could be said for the camera 
 in the first title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thai3g_Eclipse
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 18, 2006 12:38 am PT
Review:  With the release of Elder Scrolls: Oblivion, it sets a new standard for all RPG games. Due to its 
 vast quest system and compelling graphics, many players find themselves indulged for hours, whether 
 it be following the main quest or exploring the landscape. With the open-ended characteristics 
 of the game, it became quite popular.
  
  Neverwinter Nights 2 may not be able to compete with ES: Oblivion in terms of graphics, but it 
 offers as much variety of side quests and most of all, allows a unique interaction amongst NPCs 
 and allies. While the player controls one hero in Oblivion, Neverwinter Nights 2 enables them to 
 multiple characters in a group at any given time. Characters are also not linearly obtained like 
 most RPGs, they will either join or not depending on the player's influence and choice of answers. 
 The game does an excellent job of bring out all of the playable character's characteristics, behavior, 
 and storyline, not exaggerating the main character's story. Every playable character that joins 
 the team will share their own goals, problems and inputs on an event or situation, unlike the single 
 lone wolf feeling of ES: Oblivion. Due to the vast amount of skills are character classes, each 
 controllable character is important and needed, such as the thief's ability to unlock doors, traps 
 and chest.
  
  One of the weaker aspects of Neverwinter Nights 2 is the lack of be able to explore the open landscape 
 like Oblivion. Players are limited to warping amongst cities, towns and landmarks, which limits 
 the open-ended feeling. Same thing applies for the NPC and environment, players are not able to 
 interact outside of the parameters of the game. Sorry, no killing NPCs or stealing objects here. 
 However, Neverwinter Nights 2 emphasizes greatly on a player's characteristics, such as their influence, 
 diplomatic and bluffing skills. Players can use these traits to take advantage of certain events 
 where communication is necessary, it can be the difference between continuing to the next quest 
 or the Game Over screen.
  
  Overall, this is a very polished game, it is not graphic intensive as Oblivion, so a high end computer 
 isn't necessary needed. A mid range machine with a decent dedicated video card such as the Geforce 
 6600 or Radeon X800 series will offer high resolution, high detail gameply while achieving smooth 
 gameplay. Sound effects are nothing revolutionary, although character voiceovers are well done 
 and suits them well. While the game's interface is not difficult to navigate or operate, it does 
 sometimes become cumbersome, especially the spells selection for those who have their characters 
 at high levels. Camera controls are a bit quirky, especially the default camera scrolling and rotating 
 speed that is a bit slow especially in firefights. Luckily it can be adjusted in the options, players 
 will want to most likely speed it up considerably. A highly recommended game for RPG gamers that 
 loves developing their characters and doing all sorts of side quests while pursuing the main goal. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheBlueSpirals
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 17, 2006 11:06 pm PT
Review:  A lot of people are upset with this game because it doesnt resemble NWN 1. Given that the game 
 was created by a different company, different writers, and using a new engine, I wouldn't expect 
 it to be anything like it.
  
  I run a machine I built myself- ASUS a8n-SLI motherboard, 2GB RAM, 10,000rpm W. D. Raptor hard drive, 
 BFG 7800 GT video card, AMD 3500+ CPU.
  
  All that aside, I will try to review this game objectively, but I found it so profoundly terrible 
 I fear I will be unable to write an unbiased account of my experience. Sound: Lacking in many areas. 
 The battles are very unattractive because there are less than 3 sound effects going on at any given 
 time. For example, during the invasion of West Harbor, I saw many archers shooting at the enemy, 
 yet I only heard three shots fired, when I saw 20. Imagine completely shutting off the sound FX 
 from your favorite game, leaving only the music and voice acting... it's just shallow and empty. 
 The music, however, is impressive, as always. The voice acting is pretty bad (I dont know why everyone 
 thinks it's so great... I think many people who claim the voices are very well done are just diehard 
 fans.) Really, the voices are just... okay. Not impressive at all and barely enough to get you interested 
 in the storyline. Graphics: I am deeply unimpressed with the graphics- for the technology available 
 today, and Obsidian of all companies, this game is insulting in every manner. The ground is so 
 low-resolution that it reminds me of Battlefield 1942. The trees sway strangely; like mechanical 
 robots, and cast unrealistic shadows on the ground that jump and bug. Also, why are things DISAPPEARING 
 instead of dying, exploding, etc?? When you destroy something, a tiny puff of smoke erupts from 
 it, and then 3 seconds later it just disappears. How embarrassing for Obsidian! I'm sorry, is this 
 1996? The outdoor areas seriously look like Banjo Kazooie ripoffs from the Nintendo 64. It's that 
 awful. Nice silly-putty character models. Nice playdo world. Controls: How could nobody have noticed, 
 during production, how awful and clunky the controls are in this game? The GUI is miserably laggy 
 and you will find yourself waiting around for your selections to occur. How is it even POSSIBLE 
 that out of the hundreds of people that must have worked on the game, not ONE of them stood up 
 and said, Hey... you guys. This game SUCKS. The story is great. The idea is great. But trying to 
 control your party is like trying to get a whiny six year old to SHUT UP OR I'LL PUT YOU IN AN 
 ADOPTION CENTER. Camera angle: I am going to talk to my congressman about seeing if we can throw 
 the people who designed this absolutely ridiculous camera into the guillotine. The camera is so 
 inoperable it is offensive. My cats will not eat when the game is on, that's how miserable it is. 
 The camera needs constant, CONSTANT readjustment, but when you go to move it, the sensitivity is 
 turned up so high that you just spin a 360 degree twist and end up in the same problematic position 
 as the first. I have a headache just thinking about the frigging camera. Here is a description 
 of the exhilerating action found in Neverwinter Nights 2.
  
  ATTACK!!! 
  .... two.... three.... four...
  *sword slice*
  
  
  repeat.
 
  
  Bugs: Why is my party watching me die? Why are my enemies not moving, allowing my party to kill 
 them easily? Why does my inventory constantly empty or rearrange itself? What happened to my spells? 
 This game has more bugs than a termite mound. Why does it take 3-4 seconds for my character to 
 reload and shoot his bow and arrow? It doesn't even take that long in real life. Not even for someone 
 who has NEVER TOUCHED A BOW BEFORE, EVER. Why is my fighter taking 5 second breaks between each 
 slice of his flamberge? Why is half of my party being left behind a door or something while the 
 world loads? The fact of the matter is, Obsidian did not optimize the game before it came out- 
 they rushed it, and now the fans pay the price. In consummation, this game is not designed to be 
 thrilling whatsoever. The action is a joke. Fighting is like doing chores. It is, however, a good 
 fantasy RPG, there is no question about that. I have long since been a fan of the Forgotten Realms 
 series, but there is little attractive about this game aside from the box. I hope this review does 
 not discourage anyone from trying the game- just PLEASE borrow your friend's first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alphidius
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 17, 2006 8:51 pm PT
Review:  I must say that it was only until a week ago that I got NWN2 due to the fact that I'm living in 
 Singapore. So while the problems and issues are being raised and patches being made, I was all 
 aware of the potential problems that I may face. I read up everything I could on tweaking the graphics 
 to get a better fps to changing the memory cache of the game. Now some may disagree on doing so. 
 They may think, I'm buying the game so why do I have to go through all the trouble of fixing my 
 computer just so I can play the game at optimal condition? Shouldn't that be done by the developers 
 since I'm paying them?
  
  Well, think about it this way. If you like NWN or any of the D&amp; D games (that are not MMO) would 
 you be willing to pass up the chance to play this game before you even started? If so, you need 
 not continue reading since you already have the notion of a naysayer and my review would definitely 
 never change your mind and thoughts.
  
  1) Interface: There are some chances made in the interface. The difference in character sheet display 
 and inventory are most notable but after hours of playing, you'll get used to it. Only gripe I 
 have is that the character sheet is not detailed enough but no major problems here though.
  
  2) Camera: Now I seriously did not play the game unpatched and one of my friends told me that 
 the unpatched version has the camera not following the selected character at all. So in all seriousness, 
 get the patch. The camera works fine now and it will follow its respective selected character. 
 No problems here.
  
  3) AI: Many have said that the AI have trouble pathfinding and sometimes do silly things in the 
 heat of the battle. My comments? Turn puppet mode on for all companions. Remember BG2 where you 
 can control all your party members? You can do so here and with that mode on, they won't go around 
 doing stupid things anymore. It will be a little tedious but trust me, when your party emerges 
 from a battle with only a little scratch on their backs, you'll feel like superman. Or you could 
 issue general commands to the AI when they are not in puppet mode and they should response to it. 
 i must admit, I have yet to try that though.
  
  4) Storyline: I must say that I have only played up till 24 hours of the game to date, so I do 
 not know how the story goes. But from the plots that are ongoing in my game, I would say that it 
 is pretty interesting so far. Nothing much more that I can comment about but after playing NWN, 
 I just hope the plot does not spiral downwards to such an ending.
  
  5) Gameplay: Trying to stay as close to the D&amp; D 3.5 rules as possible, NWN2 is true to the 
 D&amp; D formula. The game offers more things that vanilla NWN had and I have no doubt that it will 
 offer more in the future. There is much replayability here too, trying out the different classes 
 and taking the different paths. Also, with the toolset that allows the community to make their 
 own worlds and campaigns, I expect that online and single player modules will be made available, 
 extending the gameplay to almost infinite hours.
  
  In conclusion, the game may be a turn-off initially but with the patches, tweaking and fixes, the 
 game works smoothly for me on my 6600GT, 1.5 GB RAM gig. And with the continual support of the 
 online community, I have no doubt that the hours spent playing this game will be increase beyond 
 that of just the official campaign. In all, it will grow on you just like how NWN did grow on us. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hiamjio
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 17, 2006 5:51 pm PT
Review:  The gameplay is great so far except perhaps for the camera angle &amp; control, still can't get 
 used to it. Sometimes when changing party members, they will end up disappearing from the selecting 
 party members list if i cancel instead of accepting the party selection. The AI is sometimes a 
 bit dumb especially in caves or dungeons, I'm being hammered away while the rest of my party just 
 stood there and watch the show.
  
  Quite a number of prestige classes that I would love to try out playing the game and which I properly 
 would and end up playing the game over a few times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmccrea
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 17, 2006 1:16 pm PT
Review:  Like many others out there, I had been waiting for this game to come out for awhile. And when it 
 did, I can honestly say, I wasnt too disappointed. The story is pretty well done and the variety 
 of npcs is very good. The voice acting in the game isnt stupid and its actually nice to watch the 
 cut scenes. Using the 3.5 rules set, gives alot of re-playability to the main module, not to mention 
 what others are going to make up out there. Crafting is well done in all its glory, alchemy, armor, 
 and weapons! Fun stuff!. My biggest gripe is the AI at times. In the heat of battle a rogue will 
 charge out to disarm a trap instead of fighting, a fighter type will charge a whole different group 
 of monsters, and stuff like that. It doesnt ruin the game and you can control them, but at times 
 this silliness gets to be a bit of a pain. Now some can say, thats their alignment or the way the 
 character is , but I think its more in line with the AI being a bit messed up. Its not a game killer, 
 but it will bother you at times. All in all, this game is fun and interesting and I plan on playing 
 it awhile! But it and enjoy it for what it is and dont worry about what it isnt yet, til they get 
 some patches out to fix those itty bitty probs! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: backer45
Rating: 4.6
Date: Nov 17, 2006 11:32 am PT
Review:  HUGE DISAPPOINTMENT. Graphics are aweful and the System Requirements are embarrassing! The camera 
 controls are awkward, at best. All the classic D&amp; D elements are there - which is what makes 
 this so attractive - while still in the box! The lack of attention to detail has really made the 
 experience impossible to enjoy. I find myself starting to get emersed in the story and then playfully 
 plucked back out as I endeavor to understand what the hell is going on with the camera, or the 
 framerates. If you are going to demand that kind of horsepower, at least have the courtesy/sense 
 to deliver something exceptional.
  
  I am seriously struggling to find something nice to say, and I really want to, because I have spent 
 a stupid amount of time on the earlier games: NWN, BG2, Icewind Dale...
  
  This game has massive potential, but when I jump from a game like Oblivian to NWN2, I can't help 
 but feel completely disappointed. I was really looking forward to this game. I now own a $60 coaster. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: josenbaugh
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 17, 2006 8:48 am PT
Review:  The game is littered with bugs, cut scenes with characters not quite piecing together properly, 
 AI acting completely moronic, and in some cases breaking completely not to mention the camera is 
 enough to give you an aneurism until you get used to it, at which point it becomes a minor annoyance. 
 Graphics are decent, but considering the huge hardware requirements they should blow you away. 
 The sound is decent but once again the little ambient sounds and background sounds should blow 
 you away considering the hardware requirements, and the biggest most irritating bug is that cutscenes 
 will often not play leaving you stuck if your main character is not the one selected at the exact 
 moment that the cut scene starts. If you are unaware that one is about to begin than you just have 
 to go back to your last save and start again. This annoyance was discovered after about 4 hours 
 of trying to progress and not finding anything on the net about it. Now there are all kinds of 
 pages and reviews warning about this but I was really really close to uninstalling and taking it 
 back (I have a good relationship with my game store) . So with all these bugs, why am I still addicted? 
 First off I see a diamond in the rough, that is for sure. The advanced toolset packaged with the 
 game is easy to use and extremely well made. There are sure to be 1000's of downloads available 
 by the new year. When I purchased the game, for some reason I was expecting it to be more open 
 ended than it is but now that I have put in a lot of hours into it I am glad that it was built 
 the way it was and for some reason I continually find myself telling my wife that I will come to 
 bed right after this dungeon, only to find myself so engrossed in the story that it takes me another 
 couple of hours. I hope that Atari gets on the ball and irons out a lot of the bugs. If they do, 
 this game will be one of the greatest released. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nikolokolus
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 17, 2006 8:01 am PT
Review:  I'll start by mentioning the warts.
  
  The game is a resource hog, the devs apparently didn't have a lot of time to optimize the rendering 
 code, as a result the game chugs even on highend, brand new, top of the line equipment. The AI 
 of your companions is pretty awful, but it's a trivial matter for me since I would usually rather 
 take direct control anyway and issue orders ala baldur's gate. Lastly the game is fairly linear, 
 you're pretty much on rails from the beginning,
  
  The Good:
  Easily the best written RPG I've played since planescape or Baldur's gate II, it feels very frequently 
 like an old school infinity engine game, but in 3D (which looks pretty stunning btw) , the game 
 is linear, but this isn't all bad since you get the feeling that you are participating in a particularly 
 well written story. The companion dialogues have me laughing out loud at times. Chris Avellone's 
 touch (planescape fame) is obvious here and the deeper you go into the campaign the more it sucks 
 you in.
  
  x-factor:
  I'm now primarily a builder for a PW project and I have to say that despite the greater learning 
 curve with this toolset compared to the one that shipped with the first NWN, I actually look forward 
 to firing it up and using it every day, because for once I finally feel I'm able to create something 
 as it exists in my mind's eye rather than being hamstrung by the godawful tileset system that was 
 present in the first.
  
  If this was just a single player game I'd probably rate this game about an 8.5 (knocks for technical 
 issues and being a little too linear) , but with the inclusion of the toolset and potential multi-player 
 aspects as well as single player custom mods I have to add at least another half a point.
  
  Bottom line:
  If you have a pretty good gaming rig and enjoy old school style RPG's this 
 game is a can't miss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vorcoth
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 12, 2008 3:31 pm PT
Review:  Neverwinter Nights 2 is a solid RPG. However, there are some minor things that can cause a lot 
 of aggravation when you add them all up.
  
  Gameplay Positives: Everything you've come to expect from a Bioware/Obsidian RPG.
  
  1) The 
 character creation is good. They've done away with the portrait system and have gone with a more 
 MMO-style method of character creation, which includes some really excellent choices for race, 
 hair colour, skin colour, various heads and hairstyles.
  2) Stat management (including skills and feats) is all straight from the Pen & Paper game, and 
 therefore quite good.
  3) Combat is fast-paced and the NPC AI is solid.
  4) In this sequel, they've improved the use henchmen from the 1st game. Instead of the entire game 
 basically being you and a negligible henchman, now you can have up to 3 other members of your party, 
 each with way more influence and style than the henchmen of the first game.
  5) Despite not having a top-line system, I haven't experienced any crashes out to my desktop. Those 
 were wicked annoying in the first game.
  
  Gameplay Negatives:
  1) Frequent load-screens get to be extremely annoying.
  2) There will be times when you find 
 yourself wishing that you could micro-manage your party members' activities during a fight to a 
 higher degree than what is currently programmed.
  3) There are some clipping bugs still in the game that cause characters to get stuck and require 
 loading a saved game to "fix".
  4) The plot is severely more linear than the 1st game. This is one thing I like way less about 
 this sequel. In the first game, you could pick and choose which quest you wanted to perform in 
 which order, 90% of the time. In NWN2, you pretty much have to perform one quest after another 
 with little to no choice.
  5) Unless you have a monster system, the game is going to seriously chug along and chew up massive 
 system resources (way more than the first game did) .
  
  Graphics Positives: This is a gorgeous game. The buildings and general geography is stunning. Bloom 
 and particle effects are fantastic, and the level of control you get in the graphics options is 
 customizable enough so that you can tone it down in a number of different ways if your system isn't 
 top-line.
  
  Graphics Negatives: The character models are good, and are actually the weakest point of the graphics. 
 Some heads don't fit on the bodies they've been given, some hair looks like a helmet that doesn't 
 fit well, etc. As I've said, unless you have a monster system with on of the latest graphics cards, 
 your system is going to bog down considerably. At one point, before I reduced some of the graphics 
 options and killed every process I had running on my machine in the background (antivirus, etc.) 
 the graphics and camera speed were so bad that when I tried to rotate my camera view, it ticked 
 along like the hands of a clock, and I'm running a GeForce 6600. The camera controls are also rather 
 limiting. You will often find that, unless you're looking directly top-down at your characters, 
 walls and trees and everything else will obstruct your line of sight.
  
  Sound Positives: Excellent voice acting and environmental sound effects. The music is also good.
 
  
  Sound Negatives: In many cases, they've just rehashed music from the first game instead of actually 
 coming up with new music.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: An excellent RPG if you can get past the handful of annoyances. Hopefully, expanded 
 content and modules will improve things. Once I've played around with the toolset, I'll revamp 
 this review to include it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shockey88rulz
Rating: 4.2
Date: Nov 16, 2006 12:42 pm PT
Review:  The graphics on this game are similar to Diablo but not as good. The orig. NWN looks great , from 
 the places you walk around in , to the interface menus ( character; inventory; et. al.) .This new 
 version looks awful even with all the screen candy maxed out. The interface menus in particular 
 are small , ugly , and uninspiring. I keep seeing - Oh , but the story is great ! that makes up 
 for all the short-comings. If all I'm looking for is a great story I'll buy a paperback for $6.00 
 not a RPG for $60.00. I'm VERY disappointed . I thought with years to improve on an already great 
 game they would have come up with something better than the orig. not this piece of crap. The look 
 and feel of NWN2 is so awful even a great story can't make up for that. WWW 
::::::

::::::
UserName: side-fx
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 16, 2006 12:06 pm PT
Review:  The news that Obsidian was doing Neverwinter Nights 2 invoked mixed feelings for me. On the one 
 hand they were made up of many of the old names that had had a hand in such classics as Planescape, 
 Icewind Dale and Fallout. On the other they seemed to have lost some of the names and golden touch 
 from the Black Isle days; with KoToR 2 being entertaining, but ultimately failing to hold my attention 
 despite being a huge star wars fan. Fortunately my trepidation at what they would do with Neverwinter 
 Nights 2 proved baseless. There are problems that need addressing, at least judging by some of 
 the posts on the official forums, but my own experience with the game was (luckily perhaps) quite 
 bug free. In addition there are some annoyances that could do with tweaking, such as the awkward 
 camera control for some of the camera modes. But once the gameplay starts and the swords and spells 
 are flying, these are made up for many many times over.
  
  For me the single best thing about the game for now is the single player campaign. It starts out 
 a little slowly, and some of the first part of the first act had me worried; It's still quite good, 
 but not quite up to the standards I was hoping for. This rapidly changes though, as the story gets 
 better and better as things play out. This is an incredibly engrossing and rewarding single player 
 experience. The graphics I found gorgeous, while still playing quite well on an older gaming rig 
 ( P4 2.8Ghz, 1 Gig RAM and Radeon 9800PRO ) at around mid level settings. Some have experienced 
 problems with the graphics performance, lucky for me I was not one of them.
  
  The sound quality is some of the best I've come across in recent times. The spell sound effects 
 are spot on, as are most of the other sound effects and music. And overall the voice acting is, 
 simply put, outstanding.
  
  Now for the single biggest thing that makes this game worth buying. The toolset. While no where 
 as easy to use as the toolset in the original, and despite some rather bad user interface design, 
 it provides power to builders that is just outstanding. What will ultimately be possible is mind-blowing. 
 And even if you prefer not to look at the toolset, remember that there are many many members of 
 the community already hard at work building free content for you to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phoenixDs24
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 16, 2006 11:59 am PT
Review:  First off, I really enjoyed this game. I've already beaten the main campaign twice, using very 
 different builds. I'm replaying again with an evil character to see what that's like as well. It's 
 a great experience.
  
  That being said, there are a few issues that prevent the game from being flat out great. It has 
 a few instability issues. I've had it crash a couple times during loading screens, and a temporary 
 freeze or two that have made things annoying. The camera can drive you crazy at times, though it's 
 generally acceptable. Also, the character appearance options were a little lacking, and the models 
 didn't look particularly great.
  
  Despite these problems, there are many more things the game does right, making it a very enjoyable 
 experience.
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics, while decent overall, aren't great, and there aren't really any Wow! moments. The 
 weapon designs and animations are solid, as are the character models, but they're not amazing. 
 The environments look pretty good, though again, not amazing.
  
  Gameplay:
  The game uses a very solid gameplay system that isn't overly complicated, but also doesn't really 
 do anything particularly innovative or really interesting. Some of the usage of special abilities 
 and spells can be somewhat unwieldy. And the issues with the camera can make it annoying trying 
 to target objects and enemies, necesitating constant pausing and moving the camera angle. Still, 
 the gameplay is simple and works well, though with a few small tweaks it could have been better.
 
  
  Sound:
  The sound was, again, solid but not spectacular. Many people seem to have mentioned how the sound 
 was rehashed from the first game. I never played it, so I don't know about that. In any case, the 
 various sound effects are very good, some so subtle, you don't really notice them, but are very 
 integral for the immersive experience. The voice acting is generally good, though a few times, 
 the tone of the lines sounds wildly out of context. It was also somewhat annoying that many exchanges 
 had no voice acting, though with the sheer amount of text in the game, it's somewhat understandable.
 
  
  Story:
  The story was quite impressive. There are hints scattered throughout the first act of the game 
 as to what is occurring, though the game also throws you a few curves as to who the true antagonist 
 is. The characters are decently well developed, each with their own issue and point of view, though 
 the fact that many of them are good makes it difficult to be evil. The story can drag at a few 
 points (getting into the Blacklake District takes forever) , however at other times it moves at 
 breakneck speed, never giving you a chance to catch your breath, placing you directly into the 
 dire straits of your character. It also manages to pull out a few twists and turns that are unexpected 
 and surprising.
  
  As I said, overall, I truly enjoyed this game. Most of the issues are nitpicky problems, but they 
 do prevent the game from being the masterpiece it could have been. It's still a great game, no 
 doubt about that, but it could have been truly amazing. If you're interested in RPGs at all, you 
 should definitely think about picking up this title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eslam_talat
Rating: 7.7
Date: Nov 16, 2006 11:30 am PT
Review:  why they are making all new games like this bad combat playing. u have many idea like making the 
 player more control in the game like making the left click to use the right hand and right click 
 to use the left hand (block) so u can also make a nice special ability like making a counter attack 
 (EX) ...... so i hope they make a little change in this matter. u can make the camera better than 
 that if u will make it third person so make the character flexible and please make the fight with 
 sword and block by the shield manual..... thats all 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iceteo012
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 16, 2006 10:27 am PT
Review:  NWN2 is a game that both frustrates&amp; delights me. It has all the original charm and fun of 
 the original but the bugs and graphical glitches is enough to make me pull my hair out
  
  Gameplay: I hate the camera view in this game. It takes some getting used to and it pans slowly, 
 which sucks in battles. And why did Obsidian take out the two-weapon fighting quickslot? It makes 
 me mad when I had to manually go to my inventory and equip my twin swords instead of being able 
 to access it via the quickslot. I do like the F button which gives u quick access to all your spells. 
 The storyline has its share of twists and turns that will shock and gratify the player. Personally, 
 I thought it was quite well written, even for the standard Chosen One gets Uber Weapon and kicks 
 the Ass of a very Powerful Bad Guy that is threatening to destroy the world genre. Yes, the game 
 is like NWN1 in many ways, but that is not really a bad thing. However, the presence of many bugs, 
 including one that requires me to uninstall and re-install the whole game does dampen the fun somewhat.
 
  
  Graphics: It sucks. Period. My PC is not state of the art, but if it can run games like Oblivion, 
 FEAR &amp; Company of Heroes on medium settings with acceptable framerates, why can't NWN2? I had 
 it on lowest setting and the framerate is unacceptable, especially in indoor areas and large battles. 
 If the game looks great, I may be willing to let it go, but it does'nt and hence the low rating. 
 Much of the sound is also recycled from the original NWN.
  
  Value: Despite my rant on the graphics &amp; sound, I still must admit I'll probably play through 
 the game a few more times with different chars and alignment to fully experience all that it has 
 to offer. The gameplay certainly warrants a second, third and more playthroughs.
  
  Final Verdict: The game doesnt really feels like a finished product. It still needs some polish 
 and patches but overall, it is a good buy that should occupy you for many hours. Hopefully, it 
 will be patched up enough so we can enjoy the game in all its glory. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sraj206
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 16, 2006 9:25 am PT
Review:  I had high expectations for this game but knowing that BioWare wasn't working on it made me very 
 skeptical. The screenshots and gameplay footage didn't help either (graphics looked really poor) . 
 However, after playing this game, I have to say this has to be my favorite game out there right 
 now. It has a very engrossing storyline with well-written and witty characters. Lets just say a 
 moment with a certain giant spider got me all teary eyed. The campaign is long and it doesn't have 
 a simple good vs evil plot. You get to do several other things like making alliances, playing detective 
 &amp; lawyer, managing your own keep, discovering deep rooted secrets, and of course, fighting 
 evil shadows. There is also side quests that you can choose to do; some are related to your companions 
 and others have surprising emotional rewards. The thing about this game is that it makes you believe 
 that the world is real, the characters are real, their stories are real, and what you do makes 
 a difference for this world and it's inhabitants. The well-written interactive dialogue does a 
 good job of doing this.
  
  There is also lots of character configuration options. You can customize everything from your character's 
 race down to eye color. You have control over everything about your character: skills, feats, attributes, 
 apparel, weapons, etc.
  
  The problems I had with this game was mostly graphical glitches and artifacts. I would occasionally 
 see graphical corruption during combat. There were minor performance issues in certain areas. The 
 AI was less than helpful in certain cases. The combat tactics and spells your companions choose 
 during combat sometimes don't make sense. It's better to control them yourself. They also have 
 a tendency of getting stuck at weird places. Oh, and I can't seem to gain enough influence with 
 Elaine for the only romance option that is available :- (.
  
  Bottomline:
  The game has a great story, good dialogue, highly sophisticated combat, meaningful decision-making, 
 memorable characters, and plenty of replay value. It's a definitive role-playing experience, and 
 the only reason it can't be called the best game in its class is because in a sense there's nothing 
 available that compares to it.
  
  **Make sure to patch the game to 1.02 before playing it. It resolves a lot of issues like dropping 
 out of cutscenes.
  **And save the game often. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdjonsson
Rating: 2
Date: Sep 11, 2007 1:30 pm PT
Review:  Seriously, after playing WoW, which has some of the most fluid interface and camera controls in 
 any game since Homeworld, the controls on this P. O. S. drove me right away from it. Not to mention 
 that on my brand new Core 2 Duo E6600, with 2GB ram and dual GF 7600GTs running SLI, this thing 
 is running slow as molasses! The camera moves and character moves are herky jerky. You gotta be 
 kidding me! WoW is smooth and fast on my machine, with all the candy turned up! I didn't even get 
 into the gameplay or the story because the visuals and lack of controls turned me way off. I'll 
 continue to play WoW for now, and regret the $45 bucks I spent on this. Where oh where is Bioware 
 when you need them? Judging by Obsidians two titles, they suck.
  
  Here's a quick update: As of 9/09/07, I upgraded to a Superclocked GeForce 8800GTS with 320MB RAM.
 
  
  If you turn up anti-aliasing at all, this game crawls. How insane is that? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: camo1018
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 15, 2006 7:50 pm PT
Review:  Obsidian has lived up to my expectations -- even exceeded it. Perhaps the best RPG ever made as 
 of this date.
  
  The graphics are just amazing, although the textures seem a little blurry, but we will leave that 
 to the community.
  
  The campaign is ambitious overall. With the addition of user-made campaigns and modules, this game 
 will have a huge boost to it's quality.
  
  The spell effects are just jaw-dropping. Each spell seems like they are handed-crafted out of the 
 computers.
  
  Sounds effects are superb -- although I don't really like the musics from the original NWN. Perhaps, 
 songs from World of Warcraft could've lived up to my taste, but I could always add my own musics 
 into it anyway.
  
  Game play is fantastic as well. I'm not really sure what's going on with other people, such as 
 camera controls, sloppy performance, and crashes, but I'm doing my stuff fine.
  
  The game's toolset, is a delicious bonus to Neverwinter Nights 2. We could appreciate some automation, 
 like wizards, in it, but there are many tutorials getting written out there, I'm sure. Other than 
 that, it's just perfect, with easy-to-use conversations, scripts, and even building terrains, which 
 proved to be time-consuming in other game toolsets.
  
  Overall, this game is not to be missed. It's campaign has a good replay value, so don't be so afraid 
 to try out your campaign again after you beat it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Valkyrie_44
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 15, 2006 5:57 pm PT
Review:  So far I haven't had a problem with performance as of yet when playing this game on high with 1440 
 x 900 resolution. The gameplay offers some of the same good stuff I enjoyed from the first Neverwinter 
 Nights. The characters are easy to use, and adjust to your liking, and the single player story 
 isn't all that bad. The good stuff is in the toolset, and multiplayer. Gameplay wise with my G15 
 Logitech keyboard worked extremely well with the game, and working with any magic user, not only 
 gave me a an easier time hotkeying, but a great advantage espeically when defending yourself, and 
 your friends in multiplayer games. Unfortunately, a few things didn't translate all that well from 
 Neverwinter Nights 1. The epic, (level 40) classes. The game in my opinion really should of had 
 this area, but I guess the makers do have to make some follow up cash.
  
  Graphically, the updates weren't to abundant. The party photos are now in game headshots from your 
 characters, but another missing thing that could of recieved a major fix was the camera. Quickly 
 adjusting could be problematic in same multiplayer battles. Otherwise the graphics are super high 
 end, but nice shadows, and some spell effects.
  
  Overall, I am impressed with some of the details, but some nagging issues really could've used 
 some attention. For me the issues weren't show stoppers, and still allow for the most part seamless 
 gameplay. I am very pleased how well this title worked with my PC.
  
  System used in playing this game:
  AMD Athlon 64 X2 4200+ | Gigabyte S-Series GA-M55SLI-S4 Motherboard 
 | 2048 MB OCZ Gold DDR2 800 | ATi X1950XTX @ 512MB | Soundblaster X-fi Soundcard 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JaxBoushay
Rating: 6.2
Date: Nov 15, 2006 1:17 pm PT
Review:  You would expect that a game that is 4 years newer than the predecessor would be an improvement, 
 although I fine few. Even the story seems to be just a jumble of the first three with new faces. 
 And yes, I still play NWN1, but mostly Mods. To begin with the camera controls still suck and the 
 ai . . . Then there is the inventory . . . The one improvement I can see is that everything now 
 only uses one space. But everything else seems to be designed to take up time and make the game 
 drag. Take magic bags  the only way to put anything in is to open them (lost time) then drop the 
 item in. In NWN1 you could drag and drop on the bag and it would go in. And if you swap-out some 
 armor or a weapon, there is a good chance it will disappear, at least until you restart. Merchants 
 are the same, designed to take up time. If a merchant has more than one item, why dont you have 
 the option to buy more than one at a time (lost time again.) And to buy each item, one at a time, 
 you have to click three times (again time,) you cant drag and drop it into you inventory.
  
  So I am very disappointed, I expected to see some improvement from version 1 but see little. 
 The only difference I can see is the cut scenes and I havent decided if those are worth the effort 
 or not. I think I would like to see more effort in the game-play and the ai. Dont get me wrong, 
 I think the cut scenes look great and are amazing when you think about them but worth the effort 
 in the game? I think maybe overdone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woolysockofdoom
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 15, 2006 10:28 am PT
Review:  Neverwinter Nights 2 continues in the heavy footsteps of its predecessors, including the critically 
 acclaimed Baldur's Gate series and of course the original Neverwinter Nights, and manages to deliver 
 an epic and enjoyable story that manages to outshine its forerunners.
  
  Neverwinter Nights 2 uses the Dungeon and Dragons 3.5 rule set with a few minor modifications, 
 making its gameplay as expected for someone who has touched any other DnD RPG within recent years. 
 It uses the now-standard turn based gameplay that pans out in real time, with possible pausing 
 to slow down the fights. Expanding upon its former, Nights now is a full party game, where you 
 can personally control any one of your party members (now up to 4 characters total) , although you 
 can let the AI control them as well. However, the AI can be extremely frustrating at times, such 
 as when you're fighter friend decides that not only is he going to engage in combat with three 
 enemies that were sitting this fight out (for now) , but he's going to run over every trap possible 
 and perhaps attract a few more fiends to finish you off. Obsidian Entertainment also added party 
 member influence to Nights, a la Knights of the Old Republic 2, with many interesting side quests 
 and stories that can become available if you try to pry them out.
  
  The NWN2 engine seems quite robust, but it is not without its faults. The camera takes some getting 
 used too, and it could be better. Obsidian should've taken a look at the Dungeon Siege camera perhaps 
 to see how it should've been done. But the engine's worst fault is it can tax the highest end computer 
 without looking as remarkable as it should. The high system requirements almost feel like they 
 should hardly exist. But worth noting is the Nights tool set, which is one of the most robust every 
 to be released with a game ever, and that's saying a lot. Expect lots of free third party to be 
 released within the next two years.
  
  Nights has some excellent music, with great ambient noise and voiceover. Although it doesn't have 
 every line spoken like the latest Elder Scrolls, there's enough talking to give it some life. Worth 
 noting will be the sounds you hear that are straight from the first Neverwinter, including a few 
 lines of thug banter and some grandiose music, which are great for nostalgic purposes, as well 
 as some just plain fun.
  
  In the end, Neverwinter Nights 2 is an excellent game, presenting one of the best stories in a 
 game ever, and along with its robust toolset, it presents one of the best packages you could ever 
 buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DRS10
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 14, 2006 7:28 pm PT
Review:  Provided you can run the game, Nwn 2 delivers everything a RPG fan could ask for. Customization, 
 storyline, gameplay, combat, graphics, it's all there.
  As for customization, I spent nearly 45 minutes just trying to make the best character possible, 
 finally deciding on being a cleric/warpriest. The appearence of you're character is somewhat limited 
 but its acceptable to me. The story is epic in every way, entertaining you to the very end of the 
 game with good companions, ( Bishop cracks me up with his jokes about the bard) , well-developed 
 plot, and nice twists in the story. ( Such as an Luskan enemy joining your cause) Gameplay is exceptional 
 for a D&amp; D game considering you can't just run up to a goblin hacking him as fast as you can 
 click. Stunning battles with spells and arrows flying along with fighters duking it out makes the 
 combat topnotch for the a game that invovles taking turns in rounds of combat. Graphics are the 
 game's weakest point though are still great in my opinion. Camera is something unique being free 
 moving but after fooling around with it for a while I found that it was very useful for several 
 purposes. It allows you to zoom out for huge battles and planning a fight while the game is paused. 
 The surface camera is good for just appreciating the games fine visual when out of combat. It was 
 frustrating sometimes though when you went indoors not being able to see your character very well 
 with the surface camera, however i got used to it after a while. AI can be a bit clueless at times, 
 the worst being companions that won't follow you around sometimes. I fix that however by issuing 
 a follow command though. Almost all the issues, the very few issues I had, I could get around after 
 playing for a few hours. Overall, this game impressed me a lot and lived up my huge expections 
 since i started following the game when it was announced. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kirby_Kill
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 14, 2006 3:12 pm PT
Review:  Pros: Great Gameplay, Vivid Audio, Good Graphics, Immersive Story and dialogue, Awesome character 
 customization.
  
  Cons: High SysReq. for the graphics, and the occasional retarded AI.
  
  The only problems with NWN 2 is the high system requirements, it is more demanding than oblivion 
 and doesn't look as good, and a little FPS problems when in open environments or a lot of npcs 
 are in combat. but in indoor areas everthing runs fine.
  I know how to fix the camera problem, if u dont mind being close just use driver camera and get 
 used to using WASD with it.
  Also, AI is sometimes retarded, but nothing obsidian can't fix with a patch or 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mydasx
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 14, 2006 8:55 am PT
Review:  Ok, first things first... I like the game. Really i do. The graphics are at least on par with what 
 i would expect, and i'm having fun playing the game. The big what the heck lies firmly in the camera. 
 No auto follow camera in a top down game is kind of dumb. I feel like i'm arm wrestling the camera 
 in almost every situation to try and see what the heck is going on, on the screen. Ok enuf said 
 about the crappy camera. Maybe they patch that maybe they dont. Likely they wont, which means a 
 lot of people are going to be frustrated w/ the game, because the gameplay is too hard to maintain. 
 good notes:
  i like my character. I feel involved in his progression. It also looks smells and feels all things 
 good from AD&amp; D. That's a huge plus.
  
  Long story short, if you can put up w/ the camera and you like Dungeons and Dragons rules, this 
 is a good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elikal
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 14, 2006 8:34 am PT
Review:  Well, generally it's more of the same. Classic D&amp; D fantasy setting and characters, what most 
 fantasy RPG players love. Like me. I really don't understand that some people cry for innovation 
 for the sake of innovation when you can invent the wheel only one time.
  
  NWN 2 has all a good fantasy game should have, and it has MUCH of it. The characters have never 
 been that lively, the companions dialogues alone are worth the money! It was a good move to let 
 Obsidian make the game, who gave us the most memorable characters in the Knights of the Old Republic 
 game. There is so much detail, love for the stories, places and characters, for every old school 
 pen and paper player like me it's a dream, despite some small problems, like the AI is still quite 
 abysmal.
  
  Mainly because of the bad AI I can only give 9 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bredwin
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 14, 2006 6:40 am PT
Review:  I have played 'em from Ultima II thru Baldur's Gate and NWN, and even only being a few chapters 
 in, I know this game will be an exceptional RPG. Graphics are not quite as stunning as I would 
 expect, given the system requirements, but it still looks good, even up close and zoomed in. The 
 camera controls, even after getting used to them, can be pretty annoying. But the gameplay more 
 than compensate for that. I really want to give it a nine, but the the camera just stops it shy 
 of the mark. I gave it a high learning curve, even though you can play right of the box w/o much 
 difficulty, to really take full advantage of character creation and development, you really need 
 to sit down and read the manual - if only to avid the - Doh! I wish i had known that sooner, I 
 would have spent more points on the ____ skill. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Irate_Hobbit
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 18, 2007 12:25 pm PT
Review:  Before you read any crackpot reviews from someone who hasn't finished the game due to typical PC 
 game bugs, keep in mind its a story based game. Without giving it time, you have no chance to absorb 
 whats going on and get a look at the games main point and true value. Its turn-based western RPG 
 with DnD rules. Its an obvious choice for the fans of the KOTOR series and of BG/NWN games. It 
 imporves on mechanics of those. The game blends chracteristics of Kotor and the past NWN. Most 
 of the important dialogue is done in the same cinematic view of the characters faces as in KOTOR. 
 Most of the dialogue is voiced and is fantastic. The music is some left over from previous NWN 
 and some great new tracks. The single player of about 60 hours (or multiplayer up to 4 co-op for 
 less time) . The graphics are not cutting-edge but with a top-end PC and in drive mode camera the 
 game can look fantastic. This type of game is not dependant on sound affects so while you hear 
 very few they are ok. The toolkit and multiplayer gives it huge replay value. Not to mention the 
 campaign and huge array of character types you can chose from adds to that replay.
  
  Without going into a wall-o-text reviews that will be difficult to write without spoilers, this 
 game is one of the best rpg's ever in my opinion. It was made with a great forumla that has been 
 working since Baldurs Gate. In this game it has been modernized and improved on. Graphics lovers 
 and impatient types need not apply. If you want a great fantasy story, great charcter interaction, 
 and DnD turn-based fantasy play, this is a no-brainer. Buy it. Someone who wants a slower paced 
 gaming experiance that has never played any role playing games, give it time, it may break you 
 into this type of game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kravius
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 13, 2006 10:01 pm PT
Review:  I can't tell you how eagerly I've been waiting for this game to be released. I pre-ordered the 
 DVD version just so I could get the Merchant's Friend bonus. I figured since I was going to be 
 devoting many hours of time to this title that I might as well enhance my experience in any way 
 I could. God, I was soooo stupid!!!!!
  
  I bought my copy the day it was released. I went home and eagerly read the manual cover to cover 
 and the first part of the official clue book to ensure I rolled the perfect character. Now normally 
 I would never buy a game the day it was released but this was Neverwinter Nights 2! These folks 
 knew how to make a game right, and everything I could read or watch suggested this was going to 
 be an awesome experience. I was salivating in anticipation. I then downloaded the patch that was 
 released the same day as the official roll-out. Oh, it was going to be great to head back to the 
 Sword Coast I kept telling myself. Then the game started crashing, and so began my horrid journey 
 into the Abyss.
  
  Just a quick note about my gaming rig. It is close to the high end specs, only my video card lacking 
 somewhat (an ATI Radeon X300) . Plenty of memory, processor, hard disk space, 800 mhz FSB, etc... 
 I can play most anything and have fun doing it. I have been gaming since the mid 80's, and I always 
 have the latest drivers, updates, patches, and whatnot. I also keep everything defragged, optimized, 
 and generally in good shape OS wise (XP Pro) . Again, I've been doing this longer than many of you 
 have been alive and I know how to avoid problems. I am an IT professional with over 20 years experience, 
 and God help the poor bastard who doesn't do these things when they get this game.
  
  Sorry, I digress. I had innumerable crashes to the desktop, as well as total system lockup (no 
 easy feat with XP nowadays) requiring me to physically shut off my system. Reinstallation and patching 
 did no good. I could never even get to Neverwinter, which is really early on in the game. I spent 
 a day just making sure there was nothing installed on my system that would interfere, and that 
 everything was in pristine condition. All to no avail. All that I accomplished downloading the 
 1.02 patch was corrupted saved games that would crash to the desktop.
  
  Still undaunted, blinded by my lust to experience the sweeping story in all it's grandeur, I rerolled 
 a new character and started afresh with all current patches applied. As of tonight as I am writing 
 this, I am crashing to the desktop or worse, and all I have received out of my $75 plus (including 
 cluebook) investment in this kaka is a raging headache and such a sheer sense of disappointment 
 that this beloved franchise has begun with such a lackluster start. I expected better, and boy 
 was I a sucker.
  
  I want to play this game. I want it to work. I love the work that many of the people and companies 
 associated with this project have done. I especially love anything with the Bioware logo. In short, 
 I would have given this game a 10 out of 10 sight unseen. Just proves P. T. Barnum was right about 
 a sucker being born every minute. It crushes me to even write this heinous review.
  
  The game has awesome graphics. No, it doesn't look like Oblivion, but then I don't expect it too. 
 But it still looks awesome. The camera is a bit of a pain at times, but you can play this zoomed 
 in and it will put you there. Textures, models, atmosphere, lighting, it's all there. It is leaps 
 and bounds above the original NWN in this category. And before you start flaming me about running 
 the software at too high a graphical level for my card thereby causing myself problems, I'm talking 
 about running everything at only 1024x768 at the lowest settings for everything. Still can't get 
 it to run for any length of time though, but it looks good when it doesn't crash.
  
  The characters are engaging, especially a certain tiefling who provides some funny lines. The cut 
 scenes are cinematic, although they occasionally cut the last few words off the dialog. You can 
 also fully control your hechmen (and women) . The party AI is sort of stupid, but you can just turn 
 your fighters loose and micro-manage the spellcasters. I can't say what the long-term effect of 
 having to micro-manage your healer full-time for instance will be on the gameplay side since I 
 can't get the game to work. Damn, I'm starting to sense a pattern here.
  
  I still have hope that the technical problems will be addressed without me having to restart the 
 campaign every time there is a patch. However, given Atari's rather dismal support for fixing other 
 games like Temple of Elemental Evil, I have to admit the possibility exists that I have been thoroughly 
 ripped off. My hard earned dollars may have purchased me a very expensive coaster.
  
  Bioware, you should have exerted more control for your fanbase. Obsidian, you should not have released 
 this yet no matter the pressure to go gold. Atari, well never mind, forget Atari, this is just 
 one more screwup. I guess I'll go back to Baldur's Gate I &amp; II or download some user created 
 modules for NWN and try not to burst out in profanity every time I want to play this game so badly. 
 Where's the aspirin?
  
  kalravius at yahoo dot com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eric2980
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 13, 2006 5:19 pm PT
Review:  At an out of the box retail of this game I a 8.5 because there are many bugs in the game that make 
 it feel less like the fantasy world and more like a game with problems. But, the bugs can be overcome 
 by saving a few times before the problem and trying it over and over until it works. These bugs 
 will eventually be fixed by the convinient update tool.
  
  As far as content in the game goes it is extensive, the story line is quite long especially if 
 you do all the side quests and things like that. Your compainions interacting in the game and the 
 way certain things must be done with certain companions switches things up and there is a wide 
 variety of compainos to choose from by then end. The use of cutscenes (however causing a few glitches 
 to appear) is sometimes quite funny and gives it an interesting value.
  
  The graphics are not good but are not bad, they are definently an improvement from neverwinter 
 nights 1 but do not really match up to todays standards. The sound is about the same as last neverwinter 
 nights if I remember right but not bad by any means. The multiplayer I have not tryed yet but it 
 will add tons of value to the game through character creation of new modules that you can try out. 
 The game will get better with age as new patches come out to fix the bugs and they will probably 
 come out with a couple of expansion packs to better the game and the user content plus the toolset 
 will keep any busy for a month at least.
  
  I give it a 9.2, its a definent buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Galinoth
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 13, 2006 4:37 pm PT
Review:  When I went to buy this game, I didn't know what to expect. I didn't play NWN, and all of the review 
 to date went like this, The camera will make you want to rip your eyes out and feed them to your 
 cat! or AI so dumb they will make you punch the monitor . However, when I bought the game I found 
 what I was hoping for. A perfectly manageable camera that a child could figure out, AI that was 
 on par with other games of the genre (BG II) , and a wide range of characters and classes to choose 
 from. If you didn't play NWN and are wondering whether or not it is worth the money, I would suggest 
 you get the game. Don't be psyched out of this deep RPG by a few wild reactionaries who hyped this 
 game into epic proportions. The NPC's personalities are nothing new (welcome to the D&amp; D universe) 
 and neither is the plot (welcome to RPGs) , but I play games for the gameplay. So if a full spellbook 
 and a list of feats long enough to shock Santa Clause is what you are looking for, NWN 2 will not 
 disappoint. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickmoswen
Rating: 5.8
Date: Nov 13, 2006 4:37 pm PT
Review:  NWN 2 is a *good* imitation of everything that made NWN a *great* game.
  I was disappointed several times while played through the game. First, during character development, 
 I was stunned that the same old boring character voice selections were reused. No new player character 
 voices. Then there was the extremely poor graphics performance for graphics that just aren't that 
 impressive. I played this game from start to finish on a pretty powerful machine: AMD X2 4400+,2GB 
 RAM, ATI Radeon X1900XTX, X-Fi audio... with the latest drivers installed and performance was bare 
 BARELY acceptable at 1280x1024 even with many settings turned down or off. Secondly, there are 
 nopre rendered cut scenes, every piece of story advancing dialog is done in-game with cinematic 
 camera angles. This was especially lame when a highly anticipated epic battle was just on the brink 
 of erupting, and the only representation of it was canned fighting sounds, some lame dialog and 
 static backgrounds of a few soldiers fighting. This would have been a great place to show some 
 awesome movies of an epic raging battle, but instead it was an enormous let down.
  Lastly I found the character influence system annoying and shallow. Basically to gain influence 
 with the NPC's in your party you have to agree with everything they say, or how you predict they 
 would feel about something. In real life I have found myself feeling profound respect for people 
 with whom I disagree.
  I don't really see the replayability angle for this game. The party AI is so bad that by the end 
 of the game you will have ended up playing almost every class yourself because you have to control 
 your party by hand all the time in order for them to be effective. This includes selecting the 
 spells in your spell caster's spell book, then choosing when and which spells they will cast in 
 combat. It includes selecting each of yourmelee party members one at a time and specifying which 
 monster to attack ONE AT A TIME in EVERY battle. It really becomes tiring. You can't focus on role 
 playing your character because you have to spend so much time managing your party.
  
  There were some good aspects of game play, but there weren't any GREAT aspects of game play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daggerknight
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 13, 2006 12:38 pm PT
Review:  NOTE: The following is base don my experience with the game up until Chapter 2, which I just got 
 to after four days of owning my copy. Thus, it is not a complete review, rather it is a what 
 I think so far. Did you like the Icewind Dale and Baldurs Gate series? Did you like Neverwinter 
 Nights, but felt it would have been better with elements from the aforementioned games? If you 
 answered yes to both questions, stop reading this, and go buy Neverwinter Nights 2. Before I begin 
 with the praises, let us examine the technical issues. I am playing on an AMD Athlon 64, with 
 an ATI Radeon 9800 pro, and 512 MB of RAM. Not exactly the recommended system requirements, yet 
 somehow my game only slows down occasionally, not at all turning into the disaster that many people 
 describe. To be fair, I have turned everything except the resolution down to the minimum, but then 
 again, anyone running on a system that barely meets the recommended standard should do so anyway. 
 I should note, however, that I am playing on a post patch version, which may have something to 
 do with the fact that the engine is not giving me too much of a heart ache. The same goes for the 
 camera to a degree; while it is not as bad as rumor has it, there are some areas in which it does 
 become a tad bit annoying, particularly in narrow alleys and canyons. Those areas, however, are 
 few and far between, and the camera will not break your game. As I am running the game on low settings, 
 I will refrain from commenting on the graphics. I will say this though; it does not look painful, 
 so dont be afraid to turn them down if need be. It still looks better than the original, and if 
 you are playing any Bioware/ Black Isle/ Obsidian game, chances are you wouldnt care about the 
 graphics anyway. The game itself is definitely the package I have waited for. In a nutshell, this 
 game is the culmination of all that has been done since Baldurs Gate to Knights of the Old Republic. 
 That is not to say that the plot will overtake Baldurs Gate (I cant give a yes or no to that 
 one, because I have said, I am only at act two) , but it does mean that this game does have an awesome 
 plot. While it may come across as typical (ancient evil rising!!!!) , the execution is great, 
 and very well written. The dialogue is fantastic, particularly the ones involving your companions 
 bickering amongst themselves. The same cannot be said for the voice acting though. For every well 
 voiced character, there seems to be a sub par one. Most of these will be found in the early segments 
 of the game, but they do crop up every now and then. Nothing ever gets down right painful (yet) , 
 but I was hoping for something a little more in the way of acting. Still, the sub-par voice acting 
 should not deter you from playing this game. The battles are probably the best I have seen in any 
 fantasy game for the PC. Few games have been as immersive and successful at creating an epic scene 
 as this. Part of this is defiantly the fact that you are never sent on a rat/ roach/ goblin hunt. 
 To put things into perspective; you start the game fighting creatures that you encounter by the 
 middle of most Dungeons and Dragons CRPGs (scaled down obviously) , which makes your quest seem 
 a lot more important, and actually gives you a feeling of accomplishment. As far as the core game 
 play itself goes, it is exactly what I said earlier; the culmination of everything done from Baldurs 
 Gate to KOTOR. The result is that this is probably the best executed Dungeons and Dragons RPG to 
 hit the PC in terms of flexibility and simple fun (that is being said in comparison to other D&amp; D 
 games on the PC, as I have not played the table top games) . There is really only one serious flaw 
 I can site with this game; the interface. To be frank, it seems needlessly clunky, no where near 
 as streamlined as the original Neverwinter Nights. There are some interesting and useful features, 
 such as the quick cast menu, but it could have been so much more. High up on my list of interface 
 complaints is the inability to open two characters inventories at once, which would have made the 
 transfer of gear and armament of each character a much easier endeavor. Also, the character Feat 
 selection screen is quite a mixed blessing; on one hand, every Feat is categorized according to 
 its basic section (combat, magic, etc) , which is good, but then they are also no longer grouped 
 into each feature (Skill focus is split up into every single possible path, rather than in one 
 tab, from which you chose what skill to focus on, ala Neverwinter Nights 1) . The one interface 
 change I am grateful for, however, is that they finally got rid of the Neverwinter 1 inventory 
 system, in which you had to make room for each item. This is probably the easiest game for me to 
 recommend to anyone, regardless of whether or not you have played Icewind Dale or Baldurs Gate. 
 As far as the Oblivion verses this game argument goes, this is most certainly a deeper game, 
 and will likely last a lot longer, with its multiplayer and mod features (I will update this review 
 once I check those out) . Definitely a must buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bogaty
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 16, 2008 7:10 am PT
Review:  Obsidian took over the design of this project from the Bioware team and in a repeat of their KOTOR2 
 performance, they stuffed it up nearly completely. Character design and customization is much deeper 
 than before with the addition of new sub-races, prestige classes, and feats. Oddly, they felt it 
 unnecessary to update the character speech packs from the original, so we're stuck with a recycled 
 voice set. The same holds true for the music.
  
  The single player storyline is improved somewhat with a deeper story and NPCs with back-stories 
 which can provide additional quests. There is also an influence system which allows you to learn 
 more about the NPCs based upon your alignment and actions within the game. It's quite similar to 
 the way NPCs were handled in KOTOR and KOTOR2. What is different is that the developers seemed 
 to go out of their way to make most of these NPCs as annoying as humanly possible. For some reason 
 known only to them, they also made it impossible for you to refuse to allow them to join you. True, 
 once you reach a certain location, you can pick and choose which of these NPCs you'd like to accompany 
 you on your adventures but you cannot oust them from your cadre entirely. This means that you'll 
 be "treated" to some annoyingly long cut scenes whenever you return to your base of operations. 
 It also ruins the game atmosphere to a certain extent. I cannot see a lawful good paladin willingly 
 teaming up with an admitted backstabbing thief who happens to have demonblood running through her 
 veins but this is indeed forced upon you, the player.
  
  As annoying as these NPCs are personality-wise, that's nothing compared to how annoying they are 
 when it comes to the game's AI. They behave semi-autonomously and you do have certain leeway in 
 giving them general parameters to follow but they rarely behave with any common sense. Give a fighter 
 a cure critical wounds potion and he'll suddenly decide to stop what's he's doing in the middle 
 of a fight and decide to slug it back because he's down 6 HP out of 90. However, by far the worst 
 behaviour is that of the spellcasters. If you set the game's difficulty setting to follow the pen 
 and paper rules set, spellcasters in your party become your greatest threat. They'll constantly 
 hurl a barrage of fireballs right on top of your head, even when it's three of you against a rat 
 down to two hitpoints. Fighters, while not as deadly to their own party members, are often suicidal. 
 Rather than contend themselves with fending off the four bandits currently surrounding them and 
 pounding away, they'll often decide to target a bandit halfway across the map wielding a crossbow. 
 Of course, during their mad dash to get at this enemy, they'll expose themselves to 5-6 attacks 
 of opportunity as they run past closer enemies. You do have the option to set each NPC to manual 
 control but due to the hectic, quasi real-time nature of the combat system, this is an exercise 
 in frustration. The game really is crying out for a variable auto-pause system like the one in 
 Baldur's Gate. In this game, it's not uncommon to blunder into a trap because your rogue detected 
 it when he was 3 metres from it and your waypoint happened to be on the other side. Unless you 
 have your finger on the 'pause' button, you'll often trigger the trap before you can order your 
 PC to stop. Worse still occurs when NPC fighters with you spot an enemy on the other side of said 
 trap. Despite knowing it's there and despite them seeing your rogue in the midst of disarming it, 
 they'll gleefully charge across it, setting it off in order to get at the enemy. Several patches 
 on and this behaviour still persists
  
  The interface is changed from the original and not for the better, in my opinion. It now takes 
 many more clicks through sub-menus to get at a command that was easily reached through the radial 
 system in the original. Some menus require you to left click and hold down on a character, enemy 
 or object for 2-3 seconds before a sub-menu pops up. This is all but impossible without pausing 
 if the characters are in the midst of combat and running to and fro. It's also more of a chore 
 fitting things into your quickslots. The inventory system itself is far too small and cramped and 
 the item icons are less than clear in many cases. This makes finding something in your inventory 
 frustrating at times as you often have to resort to the old left-click-and-hold routine to bring 
 up a text description as the 20-20 pixel graphical representation is vague.
  
  Graphically, the game looks much better especially now that anti-aliasing is available (something 
 that was missing in the initial release) The engine, poorly optimized on initial release is much 
 improved but still runs like a slug at some points. Combat animations are pretty sparse and helmets 
 no longer appear on characters as they did in NWN. It appears that in order to compensate for the 
 greater horsepower needed for the graphics, the map sizes were greatly reduced and you're typically 
 presented with a small area with only 3-4 discrete locations to explore on any given map.
  
  Apart from the great amount of cutsecene dialogue work, there's almost nothing new in the way 
 of sounds. As I mentioned above, PC voice work and music were copied straight over from the original 
 game. As were most of the combat, creature, spell effect, and ambient sounds. 
  
  Kudos to the developers for the work they've done in patching the game up and improving it from 
 it's terrible initial release. One hopes that they'll improve the AI eventually. 
  
  The multiplayer portion of the game is coming into it's own but still is nowhere near as active 
 as the original NWN is. There are also a lot of 3rd party modules and add-ons available and they 
 range in quality from excellent to truly laughable. Once again, the content is nowhere near as 
 voluminous as NWN as the NWN2 aurora engine is much more difficult to use. 
  
  I rescind my initial score of 4.3 thanks to the work of the devs in patching the game and to the 
 modders out there who've added some excellent 3rd party content. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: decoy1978
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 13, 2006 1:14 am PT
Review:  I love NWN. I was hooked on it years ago due to its intensity and very solid gameplay. That said, 
 I was slightly disappointed with NWN 2. Saying that it demanded a high expectation is an understatement. 
 The main gripe I have is the camera movement. Also the character models aren't really all that 
 good. Combine that with a high system requirement, I was expecting NWN2 to be more 'crisp'. Instead 
 it looks like its NWN with better graphics.
  
  The story is superb and the spell effects are fantastic. But I just really wish they polished the 
 game facial a bit more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CatAtomic999
Rating: 7.9
Date: Nov 12, 2006 11:22 pm PT
Review:  This is an excellent game, but the camera is so intensely wonky that it almost single-handedly 
 ruins the whole experience. You can either zoom all the way out and sacrifice visuals for clarity, 
 or you can zoom all the way in and have a beautiful view of some detailed table as you're being 
 killed by something two feet to your right.
  
  Everything else about Neverwinter Nights 2 is just great. The story is solid, if derivative, the 
 characters are fun, the music and voice acting are superb... all the pieces are there- but you 
 have to get around that stupid camera.
  
  Just put in a simple right-click and drag mouse look, for crying out loud. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2reddy
Rating: 1.8
Date: Nov 12, 2006 11:04 pm PT
Review:  After reading the previews, I expected a great game like the old Black Isle series or something 
 near them. After playing for a while, I got angry because of the following:
  
  1) Camera is real troublemaker.
  2) You can't dismiss party members till Neverwinter!
  3) Dialogues 
 are dull, too far away to be funny. Still old i hate other races stlye...
  4) Same story again. Isn't there any good scenarios left in D&amp; D. Come on, there are lots of 
 good books you can make games of.
  5) What the hell with the intro cinematic. Who are those men, why are they figting and why are 
 they fighting matrix-style with blades. Why do the demon run towards the mage, knowing that he 
 will cast a spell. Don't you get a little bit afraid, that his magic might hurt you!!!
  6) What's the deal with the resting again. 5 second miracle !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dpatterson002
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 12, 2006 10:24 pm PT
Review:  Usually the biggest shortcoming of a game is its lack of immersive story telling, not so with Neverwinter 
 Nights 2. The story is definitely there, the problem is in the delivery. No amount of interesting 
 dialog and plot can make up for the clunky interface and miserable camera control. The original 
 was one of the only RPGs that I ever finished from beginning to end more than once so I expected 
 quite a bit out of the sequel. The only complaint that I had with the original was the damn camera. 
 The first time through I played with the camera all the way out and the second time I played from 
 the first person perspective but neither was particularly satisfying. I had really hoped that Obsidian 
 would have cleaned up the camera control and made the game more enjoyable to play but instead it 
 seems that it is even worse. Like the Gamespot review says; you spend so much time working with 
 the camera trying to get the right angle it detracts from overall enjoyment of the game.
  
  Overall I like the game and I am sure that since I paid the big bucks for it I will make the effort 
 to play it through but I wouldnt be upset if Atari released a massive Camera Control Patch and 
 gave me a game that is more immersive and less fiddly to play. Then the fun could really begin. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JustinFriedman
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 12, 2006 9:05 pm PT
Review:  NWN2 is a great game, with a solid story to boot. Its just to bad that games these days get relesed 
 with so many bugs. Little glitches and hickups keep this game from being all it can be, not the 
 mention the feakn annoying camra! If ur a fan of the BG games or even the Diablo hack n slash games 
 you'll like this game.
  
  Gameplay 7:
  Im giving it a 7 for the bad camra, so so pathfinding and AI.
  
  Graphics 8:
  The graphics 
 are really beautiful outdoors but once u get inside they can be kinda bland.
  
  Sound 9: The musical scores are amazing and the voice acting isnt bad, above average.
  
  Value 
 9:
  This game has tons of hours of gameplay, no to mention the great toolkit it has which adds great 
 replay value
  
  Tilt 9:
  Despite its hang ups NWN2 is a great RPG. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gentwent
Rating: 2.3
Date: Nov 12, 2006 3:05 pm PT
Review:  This game certainly adds to the Dumbing Down of America.
  It's as linear as a yardstick. The graphics look like cardboard cutouts.
  Has all of the mystery 
 of toilet.
  The characters are worse than childish.. they're moronic.
  And worst of all is that the enemy is concentrating on what there supposed to do while the heroes 
 are a bunch of loose canons. There is no controlling the mob. I would say they were raised by Dr. 
 Spock. On my pretty hi powered 'puter
  this guys are standing around deciding which next bad choice would do the most damage to your side. 
 I know we role players are desperate for new games, but kiddies, this ain't it.
  PHEW !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Erratis
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 12, 2006 2:29 pm PT
Review:  I always wait to buy games for a few days, so I can see the player reviews before jumping in. So 
 I knew people where having some problems when I got this game, but I wanted it anyway. The graphics 
 in the game seem a little outdated. Even for a RPG. Im a huge fan of RPG's so its not always about 
 the graphics, with me. As long as the gameplay is good, I can live with bad graphics.
  
  The sound in the game isn's impressive at all. I never played the first one, but I hear they took 
 most of the sounds and music from the first.
  
  The big plus for me in this game (and any game) is replay value, if I can play a game for more than 
 a few months, then I feel its value is good. This game seems to have some great replay value to 
 it.
  
  The gameplay in NWN2 is not bad at all, I like how most of it plays, and I like the charator advancement 
 is set up. There are alot of options on how to advance your person. The loot system seems to be 
 ok also, Ive played the paper version of D n D for many years, and the Items seem to hold true 
 to the paper game.
  
  I found my self having to turn the setting all they way down, in order to get rid of the game lag. 
 I found this odd seeing how I can play Oblivion on the highest settings.
  
  All in all the game isnt bad, but could have been better. If they path the graphic lag, the game 
 would be a 9+ . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brannank
Rating: 5.3
Date: Nov 12, 2006 6:40 am PT
Review:  I've gone back to playing NWN 1 after several days of utter disappointment 1.) the graphics look 
 like a broken PS2 game from six years ago. 2.) the storyline is massively weak compared to the 
 first game. 3.) the game is way too hardware demanding for what it is. 4.) the sounds and soundtrack 
 is taken from the origianl game and 5.) This game should have been sold to me for $25 instead of 
 the $50 (+$20 for the stradegy guide) .
  PLEASE, GIVE THIS SERIES BACK TO BIOWARE ALONG WITH KNIGHTS OF THE OLD REPUBLIC!
  &gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; 
  &gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;  
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
  
    
    
    
    
    
   
::::::

::::::
UserName: anilkumn
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 12, 2006 2:35 am PT
Review:  Summary: I downloaded this game the day it came out from IGN's service, and I have to admit, it's 
 a decent game -- but not worth 49.95. Hindsight being 20/20, I would of waited a few months for 
 the price to go down or an expansion pack to make it worth it. Also, as a side note, I am playing 
 this game on a Windows XP 64 system, and though the FAQ on-site states the game does not support 
 it, I have had only one minor crash. I cannot access the DM agent, which may be because it needs 
 patching, but that's not too big of a deal to me. But the game runs fine so far. The Good: I could 
 be wrong when I say this, but in the non-MMORPG RPG genre for the PC, there isn't many promising 
 titles this holiday season, or noticably thereafter. Jade whatever is coming out soon, but that's 
 already been released on a console. In comparison to NWN 1, the graphics are noticably better - 
 but after a few hours of playtime, you'll realize that it was built on or around the old engine. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Coronatus
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 12, 2006 1:53 am PT
Review:  When you install Neverwinter Nights 2 be prepared for some changes. In some aspects the game is 
 quite different from its prequel. However, once you realize that and manage to pin down those differences, 
 you are easily able to adjust to them.
  
  1. NWN2 is not Bioware, it's Obsidian Studios, developed by most of the crew who did Icewind Dale 
 but also Baldur's Gate together with Bioware back in the day. Because of that NWN2 got a different 
 feeling to it than NWN1. Imagine a mixture of the BG series and the IWD series, actually.
  
  2. As with KOTR (Knights of the Old Republic) and KOTR2, the game has a darker look and feel 
 to it. I can't remember a Bioware game starting out in a dark and depressing marsh called the Mere 
 of Dead Men like NWN2 does. If you want it cookie colorful, be prepared to swallow some happy pills 
 before you play, just like with KOTR2.
  
  3a. The game features a new engine. NWN1 had a tile based engine, NWN2 got a true 3D shape engine 
 in addition to the tile-based engine (which is used for dungeons mostly while the 3D engine is 
 used for outdoor areas usually) . And, the engine (which was actually provided by Bioware according 
 to press releases) is quite hungry for system resources without really producing the eye candy 
 that would make up for it.
  
  3b. The game always gets installed with graphics setting set to maximum. Expect a diashow that 
 way unless you have a top-notch system. There is a Adjust settings automatically setting, however, 
 that option doesn't seem to check your system specs properly, always setting everything to max. 
 as well, regardless on what system you play on. Because of that you are stuck with setting everything 
 to min. first of all, then exploring your way up until you reach the limit of playable performance.
 
  
  4. The camera is set to a bogus configuration by default as well. Be prepared to adjust that as 
 well, fiddle around with the cam options, one setting is quite similar to NWN1, select that one. 
 Also the mouse button speeds as somewhat misconfigured. Some settings, like cam tilting or rotating 
 are set to very slow while others are set to very fast. Readjust that before you start to play.
 
  
  5. Took me a while to figure out that one: The radial menu you know from NWN1 which is very important 
 for a lot of things opens up with y 2 seconds delay by default. This can be readjusted in the options 
 menu, is not mentioned anywhere and causes a lot of confusion among players.
  
  6. The toolset has become much more powerful, but also more complicated. It now looks like Microsoft 
 Visual Studio, the development environment. And, it has become less user-friendly. Somewhere it's 
 managed that the new toolset is downward compatible, however, that's rubbish. I tried, and while 
 the toolset does load old modules without complaining it screws them up completely. It turns my 
 indoors tavern into an empty green landscape with a few chairs standing around in the vegetation. 
 Whoo. :P
  
  Hope that listing will help making the game more enjoyable for you. Spent quite some time figuring 
 it out and thought I might share it with you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gargoyle
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 28, 2006 12:02 pm PT
Review:  The Good:
  
  This is the closest thing you can get to solo Dungeons and Dragons. The rules have been bent a 
 little to better suite a computer game, but it is obvious that they made a big effort to stick 
 to the rules, so if you know how to play D&amp; D 3.5, you'll have no problems learning the game. 
 The voice acting is superb, and you get a lot of it. The dialogue is consistently entertaining, 
 and only rarely gets annoying since you usually get to choose your companions and can often bypass 
 conversations.
  
  The sheer number of options make the game fun. All the core classes are available, as well as the 
 warlock and a number of prestige classes. There are so many ways to play the game that you are 
 certain to find a character option that suites your play style.
  
  The Bad:
  
  The graphics are dated, and NWN 2 sometimes feels clausterphobic, especially if compared with other 
 games. Load times between levels are long, and the game has a plodding pace overall, although this 
 should probably be expected in a (partially) turn based game. The Ugly:
  
  There are some bugs, and the game performs poorly, even on a great system. Save often and at different 
 points. Overall:
  
  If you're a fan of D&amp; D, either pen and paper or with prior computer RPG's, NWN is fun, but 
 not overwhelmingly so. If you aren't a big fan of the D&amp; D 3.5 rules or of RPG's in particular, 
 I'd give this a pass.
  
  Update: After finishing the game, I thought I would add a couple of notes. First off, I enjoyed 
 the game enough to finish it. That says something right there. I played my wizard from 1st to 20th 
 level without bothering with multiclassing. There were a technical glitches here and there, but 
 nothing that was gamestopping. The plot continues to be interesting throughout the game, and I 
 finished most of the quests. Sometimes it was very difficult to figure out what to do. For instance, 
 there is a golem you can rebuild, but you need Grobnar in your party while in a certain cave to 
 find the glowing ink you need to activate it. Otherwise the ink cannot be found. If you're not 
 fond of having the talkative gnome bard in your group, you won't find what you need to have a kickass 
 golem fighter in your group later.
  
  As you get to higher levels, you feel like a higher level character. Lord Nasher gives you lands 
 and a keep for your efforts and you will find yourself spending time and money to get your keep 
 into shape for the inevitable battle with armies of undead. It's a fun experience, and I only wish 
 the load times weren't so long. I agree with others that the game seems rushed, like a beta version. 
 Instead of being rewarded with a cutscene like we see at the beginning, we get several still pictures 
 at the end upon winning that seem like placeholders. If this were a beta version of the game I 
 would be impressed. As it is, I feel like I was cheated a bit. But overall, I stick with my first 
 thoughts: If you like D&amp; D you'll like this enough to buy it and play it to its conclusion, 
 just don't set your expectations too high. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zadig
Rating: 3
Date: Nov 11, 2006 1:48 pm PT
Review:  AI - The AI doesnt consistently respond to being attacked and will frequently forget what its 
 doing after you order it to do something manually. Its comical to be fighting someone and see 
 your allies standing around, while their allies walk past your party without doing anything either. 
 Any path finding failure tends to make the AI go inert, and the mazelike maps make for a lot of 
 these failures. Hope you like endless micromanagement! Graphics  This couldve come out last year 
 and still looked dated. Except for the lighting and shadows it wouldnt look out of place 2 or 
 3 years ago.
  
  Level design  The game is achingly linear, with the majority of the locations on the map disabled 
 at any one time. The locations themselves generally consist of one narrow, winding path that makes 
 all the fights mandatory and stealth &amp; hiding useless. Virtual platform games like this dont 
 have much replay value. Performance  I built a midrange dual core machine last year (X2 3800 cpu, 
 1GB low latency ram, X1600 256MB video card) and the game runs smoothly for me. I did get frequent 
 crashes immediately after saving the game, but defragging the hard drive reduced it to only happening 
 rarely. The camera doesnt work well. I spent more time fighting with the camera than any game 
 Ive played since the first Gothic.
  
  Writing  The writing is an appalling mass of clich&eacute; s and absurdities. The player is the 
 chosen one. The enemy leader kills their henchman for failing. Despite an endless litany of defeats, 
 the enemy is always getting stronger. Since the player steals everything that isnt nailed down 
 and kills hundreds of people, Good and Evil is reduced to choosing polite or rude dialogue options. 
 The enemy leader (s) have highly affected voices, look ridiculous, and are apparently designed by 
 children. And my personal favorites are the untimely death of your traveling companions, and the 
 false murder accusation which lands you in court. In a world where resurrection is widely available, 
 murder mysteries (resurrect them and ask who killed them) and sudden tragedies (thats enough mourning, 
 time to cast raise dead) simply dont work as literary devices. Conclusion  While the Dungeons 
 and Dragons rules and mythos could make for an interesting game, the people at Obsidian certainly 
 havent accomplished it. This game fails on a creative and technical level, and isnt recommended 
 for anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: degineth
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 11, 2006 10:53 am PT
Review:  Neverwinter Nights 2 is the only game in the past 6 years that reminds me of Baldur's Gate 2, and 
 that's saying a lot. Baldur's Gate 2, after 6 years is still holding the throne on the D&amp; D 
 genre, and it is a very welcome surprise to see that NWN 2 is going in the right direction.
  
  It has a very well written story. From start until the end it keeps you hooked and gives you 
 the feeling that your character is part of something greater, something you wish to pursue.
  
  The characters are alive, every party member and every interactive NPC has his own personality, 
 and ideas. The way you play the game can influence your party members and can alter or strengthen 
 the bond between them and you, something that hasn't been done in an RPG in a long time. The gameplay 
 is truly D&amp; D, as it should be. In many reviews players give the game a bad score because they 
 are the Xbox kiddies who can't be arsed to learn the spells and the combat system. In NWN 2 you 
 need planning, tactics and execution when going in a new encounter. Every fight is different and 
 requires different strategies, which for some that preffer a hack 'n slash RPG can be a turn down, 
 but for someone who appreciates an RPG this will be a bless.
  
  The bugs that everyone mentions are over hyped. After playing the game for the second time I can't 
 say I've found any major bugs. It is true that it takes a while to accommodate with the camera, 
 but after a few hours that won't bother you at all and you will be able to control it perfectly. 
 I've read in some reviews that there are many bugs where a character does not engage in an action 
 unless the button is clicked several times. That is not a bug, that is how D&amp; D rules work, 
 it's on rounds, and before the selected character can perform a specific action his round must 
 finish first. But no, they say that is a bug, because it isn't Diablo to just smash the mouse button 
 until the enemy is down.
  
  Overall, if you want a good game that will keep you hooked for over 50 hours, a true RPG in our 
 days then don't hesitate to buy this game. Give it a try, get over the minor camera control and 
 you will see that you won't regret playing this beautiful game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RagnaFourteenIn
Rating: 4.2
Date: Nov 11, 2006 9:01 am PT
Review:  It is not worth being called NWN, it doesnt meet the need and expectation:
  - Camera angle is awkward, Toolset has a stragely high learning curve, Gameplay is just a good 
 10 hrs of frustrating (since some feature like assigning special attack on the taskbar has been 
 disable ) , Multiplaying is also horrid (it take 5 sec to recognize ur riight click action...) ...
 
  If someone tells you that but NWN 1 also needed a lot of patches after it came out, they gonna 
 patch this one, too , plz dont listen. NWN was 90% perfect and the patches (69 patches in 4 years) 
 made it almost 100% welldone. This NWN 2 is less than 60% of expectation and will never be perfect 
 in time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BMW18M3
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 11, 2006 7:08 am PT
Review:  Compare Neverwinter Nights to Neverwinter Nigths 2, this game I believe deserves more credit. I 
 am not a fan of online gameplay but even this game has something to offer thats exciting. I've 
 been playing it for only 20 hours and I love everything about it. The character detail is a little 
 better than Neverwinter Nights 1. The battles are more in depth and thus require strategic thinking 
 rather than jumping in and killing everyone. One problem, have a fricken fast and powerful video 
 card and memory ram on your computer if you are planning on playing this game. If you dont have 
 1G of memory and a video card less than a year old, dont play this game because you will ruin the 
 whole experience. The monsters and people you will fight in the game are not stupid, the're smart 
 too. They know how to find and have some decent good looking detail in terms of graphics. The songs 
 are nice too. Last thing, if you havent played Neverwinter Nights 1 or Dungeons and Dragons then 
 you are on your way to school because this game is hard. It will require a couple of hours to master 
 basics only, Good luck. Overall, best role playing game I played on PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Merlanni
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 31, 2007 2:12 pm PT
Review:  No need for introduction of the game. Only this remeber that all the faults are issues that can 
 be put right wiht patches. The same as NWN1. NWN still gets updated 4 years after release. The 
 camera? so was NWN1 ai? so was NWN1. High system req? Almost the same machine you need to play 
 the competitions games on reasonable settings. It is late 2006. A Rpg with D&amp; D 3.5 rules is 
 more difficult than a shooter or hack and slash. So for now 9.0 sounds right to me. This game, 
 like NWN1, will still be played years after its release.
  
  And now, january and four paches further. That is what we call support. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zippythezip
Rating: 1.8
Date: Nov 10, 2006 5:39 pm PT
Review:  This is another game rushed out the door for half us saps to buy. I had to work five hours to buy 
 ths bug infested lag feast. Read the nwn2 forums well before you decide to buy this game. There 
 are quite a few problems with this game. I played for maybe 10 hours and got tired of fighting 
 the game more than the monsters. I can play Oblivion on high yet I have to turn everything off 
 on this game. It can take mins to even enter a bloody house. This game is now uninstalled and heading 
 for the yard sale fodder downstairs. People are enjoying this game as the reviews here show, I 
 am just trying to help some non rich guy like me to not invest in one hell of a poor running game. I 
 may be back to edit this post after the next 20 patches fix it up. This game even came out after 
 a patch, imagine getting home and the first thing you have to do is patch......... and the bloody 
 update fix dont work.......... cant even get the patch.
  This game makes me red and blow steam if I never paid $55 I would burn the darn crap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSG_Troyer
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 10, 2006 1:48 pm PT
Review:  I'm thoroughly enjoying NWN2 overall ... the story is the key to a good RPG, and this story is 
 the best since KoTOR I. Not too many twists halfway through chapter 2 (of 3) , but I'm wrapped up 
 in it.
  
  Obsidian has taken a few liberties with the 3.5 ruleset, but it's only noticeable to a hardcore 
 fan. It seems to me that the only really good RPGs use a d20 system, and NWN2 nails it. They throw 
 in some resistance feats that don't exist in 3.5, but that's really okay by me. They help to balance 
 the game a bit.
  
  I have encountered a few main-quest-stopping bugs, but a search of the official forums told me 
 how to get by them. Sometimes, the game demands you be in control of a certain character at a certain 
 time, and if you're not, the game will break. I also don't like that I have to play out-of-alignment 
 to keep my thief happy ... the Influence system is a nice carryover from the KoTOR series, but 
 I shouldn't have to make my thief hate me by telling her, No, you can't pickpocket the beggar. 
 
  
  My biggest gripe is with the camera. I can use WASD to move my character around like a third-person 
 shooter, but the keys are waaay too sensitive. Zoomed out, and the surrounding scenery gets in 
 the way. It's supposed to fade, or autozoom in, but it doesn't always, except when exiting a building. 
 Then, the camera is so zoomed in, I can't move the party more than a step at a time. Really a pain, 
 but I've adjusted to the point I wouldn't go so far as to say the game is unplayable. My eldest 
 son disagrees, though ... he's given up on it.
  
  All told, NWN2 is a spectacular D&amp; D RPG that looks great (but not spectacular) , sounds good 
 (but not great) , and plays okay once you get used to the terrible camera. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pigonthewing
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 10, 2006 10:13 am PT
Review:  At first the game will frustrate the average user. Especially someone who may be use to the WoW 
 default interface since this one looks similar but functions differently. First off the control 
 scheme is a bit odd on how you have to hold right click to get a menu to pop up for an npc.. or 
 is it left click?? i can remember I just do it either way its not a typical setup you would see.
 
  
  Also when you drag abilities down to your quickbar it just removes the old one it doesn't replace 
 it and let you move the other to a new spot you have to find that spell item or ability and place 
 it again. All in all the interface seems a tad clunky.
  
  This could be because the game performs only marginally well. I can play Oblivion full out with 
 custom modifications to really make it shine and it runs well this i have to cut down a lot of 
 settings to get a decent frame rate. That may also be the reason my interface seems clunky. Although 
 these short comings you can get use to or even modify in the future since the interface is modable 
 like WoW's.
  
  Now the game really shined for me once i turned off the AI on my characters forcing me to choose 
 all there actions. This removes most of the AI issues people complained about but also makes each 
 fight much more involved since you get to really lay out your plans on how your going to play each 
 fight out. This worked for me it may not be everyones cup of tea but i enjoyed the game much more 
 this way and play it on the hardcore rule set with it.
  
  The story is great and most of the characters i like except the rogue an bard. I can do without 
 either of them and never have them in my group just far to annoying but other than that the other 
 characters are well voice acted and seem to add a bit to the already massive story.
  
  And this game will keep you up many nights the first act took almost 20 hours for me.
  
  Now 
 after your finished with the main campaign there will soon be modules out so you can continue playing 
 a variety of different games. I have bee messing around with the tool set and so far its quite 
 robust. There is a steeper learning curve than the old one but if you dig yourself in you should 
 be able to start creating some interesting modules.
  
  So yes the game has some flaws are they show stoppers?? I don't think so they will frustrate ya 
 for about an hour or two but then you will adjust. For all i know a mod may exist that fixes a 
 lot of the interface issues. Even so the game offers hours of gameplay, a great story and a tool 
 set that will make the online community for the game just go ballistic. Its a great game and i 
 know i will be playing it for a very long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperHero687
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 10, 2006 8:08 am PT
Review:  Neverwinter Nights 2 was a bit of a mixed bag for me. I've spent countless hours playing both the 
 first Neverwinter and its expansions, as well as Obsidian's KOTOR II, so needless to say I had 
 high hopes. For the most part those hopes were fulfilled and even exceeded, but there are a few 
 things I can't help but with the developers had addressed.
  
  First the good news. NWN2 is a party based game. I loved the first game, but the emphasis on a 
 single character meant you had to plan a build that could handle most of the single player storyline 
 on his own. There were many moments in NWN2 where I labored over which of my companions I should 
 take with me, but to create the ideal party mix and to advance the interesting storylines of the 
 various characters.
  
  In fact, the entire storyline of the single player campaign is probably the single best change 
 that Obsidian has made to NWN2. Say whatever you want about this being a multiplayer game or a 
 suite of development tools at heart, but a lot of us bought this game for the single player portion, 
 and will be drawn into the other stuff out of curiosity once the central story has been completed.
 
  
  The plot is enganging and fast paced, and even more importantly, the quests are fun, interesting, 
 and have a strong feeling of importance attatched to them. Even after only a week or so, I've already 
 stayed up much later than I should have on must nights, just because I really want to see how the 
 particular situation I'm confronting will resolve. A lot of recent RPGs like Titan's Quest have 
 focused on character advancement and PhaT L00tz to draw you forward into a game, so its nice to 
 see one that focuses so successfully on an engaging storyline and a world for you to either save 
 or conquer.
  
  For these and many other reasons I'd recommend NWN2 to just about anybody, but the game does have 
 a few flaws as well.
  
  For starters, it routinely feels far too easy. The scaled difficulty slider basically just affects 
 how easy it is for your party to take damage, but as long as one of your party members survives 
 with even one hitpoint, everyone will wake back up in a few seconds. Five seconds of rest later 
 and you're ready to tackle the next dungeon. Not only does this make Clerics a little less necessary 
 (both for healing and resurrection) , it even makes dying beneficial at times. Sometimes when one 
 of my team had contracted a crippling disease or poison I didn't have the means to cure just then, 
 I'd run them into a room by themselves, let them die, bring in the cavalry, and when they woke 
 up again the status ailment would be gone. I stopped resorting to such cheap tactics when I realized 
 how ridiculous it was to use death as a cure all, but it illustrates my point pretty well I think.
 
  
  The other issues I have are minor and not really gameplay related. As others have said, it runs 
 slow and mud at times, and having to crank down graphics settings is never fun. At the settings 
 I'm running I always cringe and the hideous pixelated skies whenever the camara breaks for a cutscene, 
 but zoomed out the game still looks fine. I should point out that I'm running a significantly older 
 machine than I should be, so this is largely my fault as well.
  
  Also, I noticed right away that the majority of the sounds used in the game were lifted directly 
 from NWN1. Some of the music is new, but the spellcasters speech, most of the character voices 
 availible to choose, and a ton of ambient noise and deathcries I've heard a hundred times over 
 before. I'm sure that this saved a lot of time and money, and it doesn't matter all that much since 
 the sounds were all fine in the first game, but it would have been nice if they'd recorded new 
 ones, at least for things like spellcasting chants which we hear just about every three seconds.
 
  
  Even with all that said however, NWN2 is an excellent game, and I haven't even mentioned the practically 
 endless value it offers when you consider all the excellent mods which are sure to spring up, and 
 the chance to make some yourself if that's your thing. There is really no reason anyone who enjoys 
 roleplaying games, or even just a good story and a sense of adventure, should miss Neverwinter 
 Nights 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deinbeck
Rating: 6.1
Date: Nov 10, 2006 12:16 am PT
Review:  Getting burned has never stung as much.
  
  I, like many others, eagerly awaited my pre-ordered Collectors Edition of Neverwinter Nights 2. 
 Something like this is a sure bet, right? Triple A title, sequel to a highly acclaimed game, experienced 
 dev team, what could go wrong?
  
  Apparently quite alot.
  
  Now, I know my rig isn't as awesome as it once was. But I know that I plays Oblivion and every 
 other recent title with most of the candy on. Unfortunatley, even after making sure I met the system 
 requirements, I failed to realize that what's listed on the box is really just dry humor, not system 
 requirements at all. I ACTUALLY need a $3k smokin brand new rig to see maybe 50 fps, stupid me. 
 System Requirements Labs was in on it too, I can't believe I didn't see the joke!
  
  What I CAN see is an erratic 10-35 fps with most of the candy off, in low resolution. Oh, and there's 
 no HDR or anti-aliasing support. You can't even force AA through your vid card. So thats all the 
 candy turned off, low resolution, with jaggies.
  
  In this state, the game looks... well... horrible. Not next gen at all. I can turn on the candy, 
 just for kicks... and the game looks... average. Oblivion beats this by a mile. What is really 
 freaky is even in the lowest resolution, you could be staring at a wall and your frames will still 
 suck. So that's no normal mapped terrain, no anti-aliasing, no shadows, no HDR, no bloom, no reflections, 
 staring at a wall of frame-suckage. How can that even be possible you ask? I wish I knew, it defies 
 logic.
  
  Now really, if you were hurting, you could play at 20 fps. Or you should be able to. Unfortunately, 
 the framerate is erratic, so if I were to be clipping along at 30 fps lets say, I could do something 
 insane, like rotate the camera, and drop down to 11fps for a few seconds. Not fun. It makes playing 
 the game like having a controlled seizure.
  
  I'm all for progress, and pushing the bar higher, but this game in no way exhibits anything I haven't 
 seen done better in some other game, and all those other games run perfectly fine.
  
  All that aside, the gameplay seems to be decent. I like the prestige classes, and the D&amp; D implementation 
 is the best I've seen in a while.
  
  As far as visuals go, the game is wallowing in it's own mediocrity. Zones have a very distinct 
 paint-by-numbers feel to them. I've seen better zone designs in 4 year old MMO's. The actual player 
 character models range from average to pretty bad looking. I realise Faerun must have *some* ugly 
 people somewhere, but making them all selectable as an avatar in one game seems like over-kill.
 
  
  The voice acting is really good, and although the 'quest' reeks of typical rpg fodder, the npc 
 dialogue is pretty entertaining. Shades of Baldur's Gate 2 can definitely be seen in this department, 
 and I don't think there is a higher compliment I can hand out to a game.
  
  When it's all been said and done, this is really just another by-the-numbers D&amp; D crpg. I personally 
 was hoping for a game that would take the D&amp; D setting to the next level. As it stands, if asked 
 to recommend the definitive D&amp; D crpg experience, I would promptly give a nod towards Baldur's 
 Gate 2.
  
  BUT WHAT ABOUT THE TOOLSET?!?? you say?
  
  It seems pretty powerful, but why even make a mod if no one can play it? I don't know anyone personally 
 who could run this game well enough to warrant playing with other people. The bottom line is this: 
 The game *would* be around a 7.8 to an 8.2 *if* it were playable. But it isn't. Not by a mile. 
 I would never recommend this game to anyone in the state it is in. Maybe patching will fix it, 
 who knows, time will have to tell. As it stands I'd rate this a 6.1, only because I think the game 
 would be good if it were playable. Don't let the above 5.0 score fool you though, don't buy this, 
 it needs a few more months in the oven, you won't be happy if you do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dwilson32
Rating: 5.2
Date: Nov 9, 2006 8:10 pm PT
Review:  It is incredibly boring. The controls are a bit awkward. Much of the content is recycled from the 
 original. Different Dev team (and apparently they are not that great) . It is extremely buggy even 
 for a release. I would hold off on buying this until it gets fixed and gets more decent content. 
 I would say that the thing that saves it is the toolkit but even that is extremely buggy. I honestly 
 did not know what to expect from Obsidian, and after I found out, I cannot believe Atari put their 
 name on this. I think they are relying on die-hard NWN fans to keep playing NWN2. If you loved 
 NWN then you may not love NWN2 as much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaxFaraday
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 9, 2006 11:39 am PT
Review:  NWN2 seems to draw as much inspiration from the KOTOR series as it does from the original. Obsidian 
 has done a better job of implementing the D&amp; D 3.5 rules than Bioware did with the original. 
 I haven't seen any of the show-stopping bugs others have reported and the performance has been 
 acceptable on my P4 3.2Mhz machine using the default settings. The campaign has been pretty engaging 
 so far and the dialog is customized to your character and party -- skilled characters get additional 
 dialog options based having high bluff, diplomacy, lore, etc. The speakers' prejudices also come 
 out based on who is in your party or what race/background you choose for your character. If you 
 are looking for a classic computer RPG that's very much grounded in pen-and-paper RPG roots, NWN2 
 is the game for you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DanGertig
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 9, 2006 3:41 am PT
Review:  Took some getting used to after playing NWN 1.
  Graphics are very nice.
  Far to easy to get totally absorbed into the game.
  Character interaction is great with lots 
 of random extras.
  Superb detail to characters and to the plot line. The graphics are realistic but do not go over 
 the top. You still feel like you are in a game which is a real bonus as alot of games try to be 
 too realistic.
  
  The control system is slightly altered from NWN1 but I think for the better.
  It is easier to 
 just pickup and play. Spell casting is so much easier.
  
  I Love the fact that you can fully control your party and switch between them at any time. Being 
 able to swap your party around later on in the game is also a big plus!
  
  Worth the wait and worth the money on every level.
  
  Easily the best retail game this year.
 
  
  NWN2.... Already a legend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattyboysmith
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 9, 2006 1:53 am PT
Review:  A few days ago I clicked on the exit button and vowed to never play this game ever again. So many 
 things initially turned my gaming stomach, but I feel I should explain my perspective on Neverwinter 
 Nights 2.
  
  The days when I would tolerate tweaking and tinkering my PC to satisfy a game are long gone. In 
 the passed, I would happily consider purchasing upgrades to quell the needs of any game that tempted 
 me with rich content and gameplay. Many do still fill the need to sacrifice their time and wallets 
 to their gaming deity of choice, but I simply refuse to support this sloppy style of game development. 
 The POTENTIAL of Neverwinter Nights 2 was enormous. I read the Dev Diaries and understood what 
 they were trying to produce; a comprehensive and immersive story line with a generous selection 
 of D &amp; D races and classes is a nice hook. Added to that, the improved graphics and the crucial 
 element which is the toolset beaconed and tempted my gaming soul. But Obisidian made this experienced 
 gamer anxious because the actual gameplay footage never seemed to perform well.
  
  This is the VITAL FLAW of the game. It was released with several graphical performance issues. 
 The issues of slow frame rate, not overly wonderful graphics, dire camera rotation and positioning 
 totally cloud the initial perception of the game. So is the game worth me re living the darker 
 days of tweaking and tinkering graphic settings that should handle them selves? Do I YIELD to the 
 slow INSANITY of lowering the anti-aliasing, turning off the v-sync, modifying the warp chamber 
 and insuring the flux capacitor maintains its required power rate of 1.21 gigawatts ?
  
  Well, yes. IF you CAN find a way of getting a playable frame rate (I did so by adding the main. exe 
 file to my Nvidia list or something like that) then the game slowly opens itself up to your heart. 
 The main campaign starts to glow. Your companions are interesting and provide a nice balance. The 
 narrative and style begins to shine, providing lore of Neverwinter and decisions that truly alter 
 the shape of the game. The pen and paper style of D &amp; D seems to be thoughtfully mapped into 
 a PC game experience that reflects its ancestor, much more effectively than the original Neverwiner 
 Nights and I feel much better than Baldurs Gate did. The UI, which at first truly did hurt my eyes 
 with its wafer thin white font on a jet black background, begins to display elegance when dealing 
 with the descriptions of items and the details in a book you may pick up on your travels. And you 
 want to continue you playing; the combination of all the positives compels you to build up your 
 characters, find interesting and powerful items and follow through the story.
  
  I initially rated the game at 4.5 out of 10 due to the frustrations of be confronted bluntly by 
 a mundane graphics engine and bad, bad camera utilisation, but you feel that those details will 
 be resolved and actually become background noise due to the polished nature of other aspects of 
 Neverwinter Nights 2. Its a game that has compelled me to work through the strife of bad performance, 
 a rare thing for me to do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mavyn
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 13, 2006 10:42 am PT
Review:  My expectations for this game were very high, given how much I loved NWN 1, and that there was 
 a great design team like Obsidian working on it. So I was very surprised initially at the seemingly 
 crude interface, the clunky camera and the number of game-stopping bugs that I encountered in the 
 first few hours. I was really dissapointed that they released a game that felt untested, and that 
 had such steep processor requiredments. The graphics were definitely an upgrade and would have 
 been impressive a few years ago. My computer is not slow. I play WoW with all the settings turned 
 up and I get 50-70 FPS. I am lucky if I get 20 FPS when I play NWN2. But, I muddled my way through 
 the tutorial and Act 1. The game got better and better and better. After 3 days of playing, I am 
 totally hooked. PROS:
  * Great story. This is the strongest asset. I can't stop playing, and I don't want it to end.
 
  * Great music and sound. A lot of music was recycled from the first game, but there is a lot of 
 beautiful music that is new in NWN 2.
  * As with NWN 1, this game employs the D&amp; D ruleset very well. If you like D&amp; D and CRPGs, 
 you must get this game.
  * PHAT LOOTZ. My character and his party have some really fun gear.
  * The graphics, while not 
 a show stopper, are very well done. The more I play, the more this game grows on me visually. The 
 spell casting is really spectacular once you level up a little bit.
  * A lot of options for creating different characters. Multi-classing and prestige classes FOR DAYS. 
 This gives the game a huge replay value.
  * A stong community / fanbase. There will be some awesome player made modules, even better than 
 NWN 1.
  * A very responsive development team. This game will evolve and improve over time.
  
  CONS (A lot of these will be fixed by future patches) :
  * Bugs! Poor Coding! This can be 
 fixed in the next patch or two, but shame on you Oblivion for releasing this game in such a rough 
 state. The message boards are literally flooded with complaints and bug reports.
  * The camera system sucks. It's like, in molasses or something. It pulls you right out of the story 
 and combat sometimes because you will contantly be adjusting your perpective.
  * Ridiculous system requirements. Did you guys remember to optimize your coding before shipping??
 
  * The party AI is awful. The pathing, the response are unpredictable. Often I will be getting 
 my arse kicked while my party just stands there doing nothing. Even worse, the spellcasters go 
 nuts and unleash fireballs and nuke spells on weak enemies, or they summon a huge creature when 
 it is totally uncalled for.
  * The UI is a downgrade from the first NWN. No dual wielding in the toolbar, no radial menus, no 
 text macros. Buying and selling from vendors is slow. No purchasing potions in stacks. Every action 
 requires more clicking in this version than the last.
  * All of the item icons, spell icons and buff/debuff icons were redesigned (poorly) , and are now 
 unfamiliar to the NWN veteran. This is not an improvement. Its just confusing.
  * Stiff and amatuerish looking animations.
  * Too much recycling of sound and content from the 
 first game. For example, one of my favorite things in NWN was the spellcasters' incantations, but 
 I hated that there was only 1 male and 1 female voice, and only 3 or 4 different incantations. 
 Four years later in NWN2, they re-used the same exact sounds. Nothing new.
  * Mulitplayer is very awkward and slow in the OC. NWN1 was very frustrating in this sense and NWN2 
 is no different. They built the game around a single player campaign and multiplayer feels tacked-on 
 or last priority. Navigating the server interface is a nightmare. And you still can't host a game 
 if you are behind a firewall.
  * Too many loading screens. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Poton
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 16, 2006 10:37 am PT
Review:  Well where should i start i'm so disappointed, i'll start by saying it has all the nice old voices 
 and a nice new character creation. Aswell as a really nice way of editing terrain :) . But the games 
 so bugged i can't play it, saving with the editor doesn't work neither does the 3rd zone in the 
 game meaining i can't play for more than an hour really i can't make my own and whats worse is 
 i can't even patch the game.
  
  Why well the game requires about an extra 6-7 gig free to patch because when it copies the files 
 then patches them, a sensible way to do it but obsidien not all of us have that space and spent 
 time freeing space for nwn 2. So i'm going to have to get a new hard drive to play but i just honestly 
 can't beleive this could be past beta or alpha testing.
  
  I mean what if u don't even have the internet but have a nice pc to play it with your a bit screwed 
 aren't you. The game not designed for dual-core neither? I'm so dispointed really the gameplays 
 prettey much the same except they apparently added new content but i can't play the game to see 
 it : (.
  
  On the bright side hopefully patches have solved all the problems and maybe the next batch of games 
 will be patched but for now i'm goin to just have to wait to see what its like and hope everythin 
 works when i get a new hard drive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crelus
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 8, 2006 8:58 am PT
Review:  An excellent RPG. It is what it promises to be, and does it well. The quests, characters, character 
 interactions, encounters, loot, and character customization / progression are all well done. There's 
 so many options that the hardest part is figuring out which way you want to do things. The spell/potion/item 
 creations really adds a lot to the game. I think it's a nice touch that the games books are actually 
 useful as apposed to boring stories that have no real value. There appear to be two kinds of books, 
 journals and recipes. Combining this with the spell components and the ability to create new items 
 it's cool to try to see what new things you can make. I also like being able to have backup spells 
 on scrolls or wands. Very handy in a big fight.
  
  The multi-character party aspect of the game is wonderful as well. The AI is kind of stupid, but 
 you can get around it by controlling each character which is better anyways. The character interactions 
 are nice as well. It's fun to see how different characters react and sometimes you won't do things 
 you would probably do on your own for fear of offending a party member. The one issue I have is 
 when someone will start talking to you right in the middle of a battle and you get locked into 
 a dialog and have to exit out quickly to prevent getting killed. Also, I lost a couple of cut scenes 
 where a character would be about to tell me something important and then we got attacked and it 
 aborted and I couldn't go back.
  
  The little glitches really drive you crazy, but I'm sure they will be addressed in future patches. 
 One thing that needs to be addressed though is shooting through walls. For example, if an enemy 
 is far away and casts a spell at you, you can duck around the corner, but the spell will go right 
 through the wall and hit you anyways. Overall I'm very pleased as I expected the game to be far 
 less. Dungeon Siege 2 wasn't much of a sequel, but this game truly is. There's a lot more and after 
 playing it I don't want to go back to the first one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tyshalle83
Rating: 6.8
Date: Nov 8, 2006 8:22 am PT
Review:  I'm not entirely sure what I was expecting when I first heard they were making a sequel to Neverwinter 
 Nights. I think I was expecting little more than a major upgrade to the original game, but it would 
 otherwise feel exactly the same. In many ways it turned out to be exactly like this, and in some 
 ways it's even better. However, there are a variety of things that actually makes this game worse 
 than the original, mostly technical issues as well as bad design decisions. It's because of these 
 things that I believe, unless Obsidian fixes them, it's not going to have as long a life-span as 
 the original.
  
  The first thing you'll notice about NWN2 is that the graphics are much, much better. There's no 
 denying that, and this is a good thing. Character customization is still a very fun thing, and 
 you could spend a great deal of time just messing around in the character generator and not feel 
 like your time is being wasted.
  
  However, there are some flaws with character generation. The biggest of which is that customization 
 of your avatar itself is rather limited. This doesn't make a difference to everyone, but for big-time 
 role players who get almost as much of a kick at designing their character as they do playing the 
 game itself, this is practically unforgivable. What makes this worse is that we're in an age where 
 most games, including games that have to worry about bandwidth and lag much more than single player 
 games (talking about MMOs here) have tons of customization capabilities, where having a highly 
 customizable character is practically common place, so why Obsidian chose to skimp out on this 
 is kind of unsettling.
  
  Now I know, everyone keeps saying that the community will come out with new heads and such, but 
 that's not really the point. Any game you spend 50 dollars for shouldn't have to rely on the community 
 to put things in that you should've in the first place.
  
  The next problem with the updated graphics is that this game requires a powerhorse of a system, 
 and it doesn't really make much sense for it to. I've got a powerful self-built system that's barely 
 a year old, and I have to run the graphics at their lowest quality to avoid getting a lot of lag. 
 Even at low, I still get the occasional hiccup, and this is frustrating. I mean, I'm able to run 
 Oblivion, FEAR, DOOM 3, Battlefield 2, and basically every game I own at max graphics with 1280x1024 
 resolution with hardly any problems whatsoever. The fact that NWN2 looks WORSE than all of these 
 games, yet requires more power is unforgivable. If NWN2 looked better, I could look past its high 
 system requirements, but it doesn't even come close. The single player campaign is pretty good 
 so far. It's much, much better than NWN1, and the cinematic camera they stole from KOTOR is effective. 
 The voiceover work is also pretty good. The music is mostly great, but I feel fairly ripped off 
 that they mostly just recycled music from the original. For that matter, when you go to pick your 
 character's voice, you'll realize that you've got the same options from the original game, plus 
 four more, and the four additional ones kind of blow. This is one area that could have used a major 
 upgrade, but it didn't even get a small one. They just left it alone, which is annoying.
  
  There are some issues I have with technical design decisions in this game. For one, with this whole 
 system of being able to influence your companions, you'd think they'd at least have enough sense 
 to stick to the KOTOR concept and let you talk to your companions whenever you want. As near as 
 I can tell, you only talk to them at scripted events, which doesn't let you get to know these NPCs 
 as well as you got to know them in KOTOR.
  
  Further, there's no way to examine NPCs in this game. Or if there is, it's made very, very difficult 
 to do. In the original game, you'd just right click on someone and then click examine. It'd let 
 you know how difficult your opponent would be compared to you. There is a larger issue here though, 
 which is for multiplayer modules and persistant worlds players will be creating. In NWN1, you were 
 able to examine your fellow players and read their character description. As far as I can tell, 
 that's impossible to do with this game. This is a bad thing, as a lot of players liked to put in 
 physical descriptions about their character in their profile that other players'd be able to see 
 in order to compensate for the lack of character customization options. Without that ability in 
 this game, all we have to rely on for role playing are the extremely limited head options.
  
  Also, the lack of character portraits was another bad decision, compounded by the lack of head 
 options. If you had the amount of control over how you looked like you did in say, Star Wars Galaxies, 
 then this wouldn't be a problem. But instead, you get very few head options, each with only one 
 type of facial hair look, and a few hair styles, and that's more or less it, aside from being able 
 to choose colors.
  
  Then there's the inventory. This is one of the worst aspects of the game. They should have stuck 
 with how they had done it in NWN1. If that was impossible, then they should've stolen from Oblivion 
 or KOTOR and at least separated your inventory by type. Instead you're just left guessing, forced 
 to pause the game a lot of the time and putting your cursor over everything in your inventory just 
 to find that one elixir. I'm exaggerating a little, but only a little. They should turn it back 
 to how it was in NWN1, IMO.
  
  The load times are enormous. In fact, I find it kind of funny that if you hit the Quicksave button 
 it pauses your game and spends about 10 seconds saving. I'm not saying it's not useful but there's 
 just nothing quick about it.
  
  When going to multiplayer servers, on NWN1 it usually took about 10 seconds top for you to connect 
 to a server. With NWN2, I've had it take upwards of two minutes. At bare minimum, it's taken 30 
 seconds or so.
  
  I'm not saying these are gamebreaking deals or anything, but what I am saying is that this game 
 is far less multiplayer role-playing friendly than the original game was, and I think it'll affect 
 it in the long term. On NWN1, you see THOUSANDS of servers up all the time. I'm sure there will 
 be tons with NWN2, but I'd be willing to bet that there will be a great many people sticking with 
 the original.
  
  With the original, you at least had portraits and profiles to make up for a lack of character customization. 
 You also had a more effective inventory, the graphic upgrade didn't bring your computer to a crawl, 
 if you moved to a new zone it didn't take forever to load it, etc.
  
  My point is, when it comes to player-made modules, this game gives you a whole lot of trouble for 
 a simple graphics upgrade that isn't even anything truly spectacular. And for all those people 
 who read the rest of this review and were just saying Well graphics aren't everything! I agree 
 with you. Which is why I think so many people are going to stick to the original, because aside 
 from the new single-player campaign, this sequel really doesn't offer multiplayer modules anything 
 except better graphics. And for those better graphics, you're taking a whole lot of penalties. 
 That doesn't even things out for a lot of people. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkelf720
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 8, 2006 7:18 am PT
Review:  I was looking forward to this for months. Eagerly awaiting 3rd November. It came out and I bought 
 the Chaotic Evil Special Edition.
  
  Straight into the PC and installed it. After installation comes the Patch. Oh My God, it's been 
 out a day and there is a massive patch already.
  
  Upon finally entering the game I was greeted with a slightly annoying Camera system. The game flows 
 along quite nicely, has some very nice spell effects. The monsters are well animated and the gameplay 
 is easy. The game is chopped up into nice FMV sequences too. Having just started playing it I have 
 to say that is doesn't quite sit as nicely as say Oblivion or even Titan Quest. The graphics are 
 slightly old-style although they have been tweaked.
  
  All in all a good game and a valued sequel. A must for all RPG fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: avgal
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 8, 2006 1:52 am PT
Review:  The simplicity of NWN1 made it greater than anything expected, it was great as a game. NWN2, after 
 expecting more like NWN1, has grown into a lively world, though the game is more complex (even 
 graphically ) which makes it harder to handle and less fluid. After I played a little and got frustrated 
 at easy tasking made annoying, it's getting to be more and more addictive, I like it!
  The feeling of the game is that of a world, and the added NPC's related chat movies really makes 
 a different experience for the better. This game is really worth it's while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: taobo33
Rating: 3.6
Date: Nov 8, 2006 1:51 am PT
Review:  If not bear the name of never winter nights 2 it could hit 6.0. I am a PC game vertan and my pc 
 spec is not low:
  amd 4000 oc to 2.6g and 1g g-skill pc4800 ddr ram, ati x1900 xtx fatality sound card etc etc and 
 i only have 15-20 fps at the begaining of the game.... no wonder what i will expect when game goes 
 deeper..
  i also spent 3mins just trying to open and get into a door under this cripy
  new engine and this is kinda unable to tolerate in wow or even neverwinter1
  
  can't believe 
 this can pass the tester and ship ......... If not bear the name of never winter nights 2 it could 
 hit 6.0, but now i could only give it a 3.6, how come gamespot give it a 8.6!?? total let down 
 : ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mayonaise390
Rating: 5.9
Date: Nov 7, 2006 9:24 pm PT
Review:  I love neverwinter nights. Not the game, the idea. They are close, and I really hope they keep 
 pushing on. A customizable interactive multiplayer immersive true to D&amp; D world is everything 
 I've ever dreamed of since the first RPG I fired up on my commodore 64. So their hearts in the 
 right place... but unfortunately their success ends there. Technically speaking this game is a 
 disaster. If this game didn't already have a legion of loyal followers and the best toolset in 
 the industry it would have rotted on the shelves and recieved a 5 or 6 from gamespot. What on Earth 
 were they thinking? Everything about controlling your character is a fumbling bumbling clumsy mess. 
 In the top down view you spend more time tweakign the camera -NON STOP- so you can even see whats 
 going on. I can't stress this enough. You spend the ENTIRE game battling the camera. It is by far 
 the worst system I have ever... EVER played with. I mean really, I'm liking the story, I like the 
 game, but I simply can't play it anymore. The camera controls are atrocious. Even if you lock it 
 to automatically 'zip' to whatever direction you move... it becomes a spasmatic mess when buildings 
 and walls get in the way. Tight areas of tunnels and hallways will make you throw up your hands 
 and surrender. You have to spin 360's in rooms just to see if there are any chests hidden behind 
 walls. (and this is tedious. very.. very.. very tedious.)
  
  To add insult to injury, encounters consistently fall on your lap. Don't bother playing a mage. 
 Your sight range is so limited that, if you're REAL fast, you might be able to hit your space bar 
 before your enemy has you in range. What does that mean? If you're a mage, you either run (provoking 
 an attack) , just cast a spell (forget fireballs!) provoking an attack, or just hack and slash, 
 which is all this system is good for. You will die in every battle while your fighters swim through. 
 Just throw the fighters in front? Well... there is absolutely no option for re-organizing your 
 party or putting them in any formation. You can 'select' a different character and they will take 
 the lead, but then you're stuck wtih them for diplomacy/intimidation checks for conversations. 
 Then if you do chose a fighter class of any sort, bring a book because the games on auto pilot. 
 Combat is a tangled hack and slash mess where its often difficult to tell whose even on your side 
 let alone having any meaningful decisions to make. Even in full daylight everything is so dark 
 (and you have to zoom out maximum in hopes of actuallign seeing a fight coming) that its impossible 
 to see anything clearly. Whose bright idea was it to have a key that illuminates EVERY object that 
 can be interacted with ON THE ENTIRE MAP. Thats right folks, hold Z and you can see chests you 
 can open in rooms you've never been in through walls! Oh yah, didn't i mention, upon entering any 
 area you can hit M and see the layout of the entire city, woodland, dungeon.. you name it. Great 
 suspense there. In the provided campaign, they are even so nice to have markers that show you were 
 areas of importance are on each map, even if you haven't been told why they are important yet. 
 Enter the docks district in neverwinter and they'll tell you where Corbin is, even though you don't 
 learn who he is, or why you should care until well into the docks quest. I'll stop. Seriously, 
 I want this game to continue and improve. The idea is there, the tools are there, but technically 
 this game is a disaster that, no matter how hard I try, I can't force myself to like. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: canadianloonie
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 21, 2006 11:08 am PT
Review:  The Good:
  1. Control over inventory and level-ups of your party members
  This was long overdue and is very much welcomed. My only gripe is that you can only have 4 characters 
 in your party (including yourself) at a time. If they can do 4, why not set it to 6? With a max 
 size of 4 (3 of which is pretty much taken up by a warrior, a mage, and a thief due to neccessity) , 
 you really cannot try out the lesser known/support professions (Bards as an example) as much as 
 you would like.
  
  The Bad:
  1. Camera viewpoints and controls are atrocious
  If you go indoors and the first thing you see is the back-side of the interior walls, then you 
 know there is something seriously wrong. You cannot see anything unless you manually move the camera 
 up and over the walls. Whatever happened to simply 'hiding' the nearest wall so you can acutally 
 see what's inside the room? Moving your character does not automatically move the camera around 
 to follow you. You will have to continually rotate the camera manually just to see what your character 
 is seeing. I don't recall having to manually control the camera this much in a game before.
  
  The latest patch (1.03) has improved the camera viewpoints/controls somewhat. The indoor sections 
 is now at least playable but it is still far from acceptable.
  
  2. Gameplay/Story is too linear and boring.
  Where are all the sub-quests?? Once you reach Neverwinter, 
 there is absolutely nothing to do except the main quest. There is surprising very little non-generic 
 NPCs to talk to in Neverwinter... and even fewer NPCs offering up side-quests. So, even though the 
 area of Neverwinter is of decent size, it feels dead, empty, and boring.
  
  3. UI is a step back from NWN1 and KotOR.
  NWN1 and KotOR's UI is nice, simple, and intuitive. 
 NWN2 is anything but. It's a definite step backwards. The inventory system isn't as nice and easy-to-use 
 as its predecessors. You cannot see all the important item details/stats quickly. The item icons 
 are too small and not very distinguishable from the next. The journal system is too simplistic. 
 It does not provide as much detail as before.
  
  Generally speaking, the game is very buggy and is of poor quality. It feels like the game was released 
 with absolutely no QA done to the game. Obsidian is slowly fixing the hundreds of major issues 
 that this game has. But, this is absolutely unacceptable. Obsidian should be ashamed of themselves 
 for releasing what it seems like a early beta version of the game. Paying users should not be made 
 the QA of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: megasteve11
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 7, 2006 1:02 pm PT
Review:  This game is FANTASTIC. Though i wish some of the other character models looked better, its a great 
 all together game. The graphics, while not stunning are good for a good ol text/numbers RPG, and 
 does fine. Finally, i have found a good replacemnt for WoW. Though at times i did find that my 
 a few of my party members would just kind of sit back and enjoy life, i do imagine that this will 
 be fixed at some later date, so i am not worried.
  
  Combat is good, Spellcasting is how it should be, and stealth is pretty hard to mess up in my opinon. 
 The plot is good, though i havent finished it. And i am pleased to say that there arent many hey 
 go grab that thing from over there and give it to me quests, which i abhor.
  
  DIAF trolls. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nadlad
Rating: 1.3
Date: Nov 7, 2006 8:48 am PT
Review:  why did u do such a game? It's nothing but a waste of time and money.
  
  1) Camera control is horrible, the graphics are mediocre
  2) You are forced to accept NPCs to 
 your gang and can't dump 'em.
  3) Things you shoot will not break, just disappear.
  4) NPCs will not really die just be revived after the fight has ended.
  5) You cannot attack 
 non-enemy NPCs.
  6) You cannot bash things.
  7) You don't have the awesome menus and submenus with one-point-click
  8) You can't see details 
 about the enemies' strength or items' properties without directly clicking on them and opening 
 a lame picture with their description.
  9) You cannot free travel
  
  I dont understand how people can rate this game as good? did they ever played a ral game? Even 
 the NWN is better game, graphics and gameplay! Atari wants to make profits over people hopes and 
 expectations! But to be honest it has a good toolset! That's the only thing i can say about this 
 game! Sorry but true! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alaris83
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 8, 2006 9:13 pm PT
Review:  Mix Baldur's Gate with Knights of the Old Republic II and you have Obsidian Entertainment's latest 
 game game, Neverwinter Nights 2. NWN2 uses the current D&amp; D rule set, 3.5 edition, with a few 
 changes here and there for playability on a computer. Anyone familiar with D&amp; D in general will 
 be able to pick this game up from the start. If not, there is a brief tutorial in the beginning 
 of the game which does a fair job explaining the game. And apart from clunky camera movement, the 
 controls are easy to use and intuitive. Usually you control a party of four characters, but during 
 certain points in the single player campaign, you will use more or less.
  
  Graphically, NWN2 is a huge improvement over the first game. The places you will visit through 
 the game look sharp and have a lot of interesting details. The characters and monsters themselves 
 are very accurate to D&amp; D lore. Unfortunately, the game has framerate issues, which were most 
 noticeable in the areas at the end of the game.
  
  Sound is, for the most part average, and some of it has even been recycled from the previous game. 
 However some great voice acting helps boost the score here.
  
  While the storyline will, for the most part, be the same every time you play, there is replayability 
 in choosing to be good or evil, through dialogue choices and some quests. Plus there is multiplayer 
 and a toolset to help extend your time with the game.
  
  Being a D&amp; D fan, I was eager to get into this game, and I wasn't disappointed with Obsidian's 
 work. Knowing that some of the people at Obsidian used to work at Black Isle, it was easy to see 
 some flavor of their previous games. A great story line and solid gameplay make it easy for me 
 to recommend this game to any fan of the RPG genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kreischweide
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 7, 2006 7:28 am PT
Review:  Remembering Neverwinter Nights 1 as a minor let-down of the Baldurs Gate series, I had not much 
 expectations to the upcoming sequel. Playing the german version now, points my way directly to 
 reinstallation of the game with english as primary language, because all sounds are mixed between 
 both languages.
  
  The first minutes into the game are easy, the tutorial leads old an new people to the most basic 
 aspects of the game in a nicely done level. You will fast learn to deactivate shadows because no 
 high-end machine has suffered like it before. Compared to the prequel the graphics have not improved 
 much, the modular based content is still noticable, but not that badly.
  
  The most conversations are held in the old read and click style, with no spoken content, but all 
 other cutscenes or important conversations have spoken audio. The story developes slowly but after 
 a few hour it kicks right in, though there will never be a story like in Baldurs Gate or Planetscape 
 Torment again.
  
  The general movement is a acceptable, but the camera will get you headaches most of the time, I've 
 become very annoyed pressing my mouse-wheel or moving the pointer to the edges of my screen all 
 the time. Loading times are good as is the interface (though i wont name it a relovution or an 
 improvement) .
  
  While playing the game for the first ten hours, i wondered what happend to all the good AI programmers 
 the last year. Its absolutly unclear to me how nearly every roleplaying game released in the past 
 2 months can have so many AI bugs, hickups or none-responsiveness. Some fight you ask yourself 
 what your groupmates are doing over there in the tree, why they keep switching targets like chickens 
 and why the hell the enemy wont move a bit.
  
  Let aside all those technical issues, its still a worthwhile game with a long campaign that can 
 keep you interested. You might have a good time, if you're not a technical enthusiast fiddeling 
 for performance the whole day, because you wont get any. Character developement is good, offers 
 you alot of ways and the new D&amp; D 3.5 rules are interpreted very fair.
  
  Another needle in the eye is the manual. You can play the whole game, not knowing how to develop 
 your character the best way or even understand the basic rules, until you find the little PDF-file 
 containing the whole manual. How can a publishes print a 40 pages manual explaining standard stuff 
 and leaving the interessting stuff on the DVD (which is 80 pages) ? Not fair and not expected from 
 Atari.
  
  I like playing Neverwinter Nights 2, mainly because it is one of the last immersive roleplaying 
 games left there to be. As sad as it sounds, even though I like it, its not what i expected and 
 hoped for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dranck
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 6, 2006 7:54 pm PT
Review:  I've been an CRPGer since the C64. Yes, I know that's a long time - thanks for reminding me. I've 
 played lots of RPGs and to date my favorites have been Morrowind, NWN, of late Oblivion and now 
 NWN2. Is it perfect? No, but what game is? Is it Oblivion? No it's NWN! I love Oblivion and can't 
 wait for the next installment, but NWN2 is different. Its D&amp; D style. Its Faerun. Its made for 
 mod-building and persistent world building. Its made for GM-ing and multiplayer. It is (or can 
 be if you let it) more true to RPG than Oblivion.
  
  Story:
  So far, its a good story, better than NWN 1
  
  Graphics:
  Not Oblivion but pleasing on my 
 system. Toolset:
  Ah, now we're talking! This is the heart of NWN2. The toolset is better than NWN1 and once the 
 community has time to work with it, I'm sure we'll start seeing some great mods, just as we did 
 with NWN1.
  
  If you've read some poor reviews, read the good ones before making a decision. System Specs:
 
  AMD Athlon 4200+
  nVidia 7600 GTOC 256MB
  2 GB RAM
  
  - Teleios 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragaris
Rating: 3.2
Date: Nov 6, 2006 6:22 pm PT
Review:  This game... it has great potential to be something far greater than NWN ever was. However, it 
 is impossible to tell. Why? Because the many crippling technical issues prevent it from showing 
 its true beauty.
  
  I have solved the frame rate issue for the most part by disabling x-fire, and I thought all was 
 well. But I am encountering constant saved game corruptions that cannot be fixed, even if you save 
 many times. I had one save quite a while from entering an area, and my antivirus went off saying 
 there was a virus detected. The developers say it is not a virus, which is fine... but I have never 
 in all the games played in my lifetime, experienced a game that triggers a false positive virus 
 reading. That of course minimized my game, and crashed it like clockwork.
  
  That last save I had, was corrupted even though it wasn't even relative in comparison to when I 
 crashed. I haven't even made it out of the first town yet, and have dealt with 6 corrupted saved 
 games.
  
  Don't pick up this game until they fix the technical issues. Or if you do pick it up, be sure to 
 let it collect an inch of dust before you play it, or else you will deal with the very same frusterations 
 as many other players.
  
  There could be a great, beautiful game underneath all this technical ugliness, but we'd never know 
 until it's fixed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redvodka
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 6, 2006 5:56 pm PT
Review:  I have played the original Neverwinter Nights before back when it was developed by Bioware. Now 
 that is a company that should be respected for creating awesome games. Now that Neverwinter Nights 
 2 is out, which i have anticipated for a loong time, i have mixed reactions. Contrary to some other 
 reviewers here say, there are loads of bugs and glitches that comes with the game and this is even 
 after the patch is installed. You can read the scores and scores of complaints in the NWN 2 community 
 forums hosted in Bioware's site. That said, bear in mind that my computer is a low end one so it 
 is partially my PC's problem. On with the review...
  
  Impressions, Impressions, Impressions...
  
  Graphically wise, i have to agree with many people 
 that for a game that requires such a high specs, the graphics could be better. However, the character 
 models is pretty good. You can see the different colours and types of head shapes you choose for 
 your character. You can see the clothes and armor, swords, braces, cloaks on your character model 
 wehich is great. I always wondered why in the first NWN, you can equip cloaks but can't see them 
 in gameplay. Terrains is great. Seeing the sky is fantastic. Spell effects are even better. In 
 fact, spell effects are the best graphic effects in the game. If anything, it is worth it to buy 
 those higher end graphics card just to see the wonderful smorgasbord of spells' special effects.
 
  
  Gameplay
  
  It is easy for anyone to learn how to use the user interface (UI for short) within half an hour 
 tops. Of course, it could be because i played the first NWN, however, between the tutorial module 
 and the manual that came with the game, it is fairly easy for new players to get used to the UI. 
 Oh plus the huge amount of quick slots for people to put spells, items, feats in, it takes away 
 a lot of time finding the feats, special effect items or weapons. The quickcast for spells is even 
 better because with one click, you can put a whole lot of hurt on your enemies by finding immediately 
 the spell you need for the occasion.
  
  Character creation... OMG.... is there a choice for you. You be hard pressed to just pick one class. 
 There are so many interesting classes, races, prestige class and even background traits, dieties 
 etc to choose that most people will probably spend the first hour of the game actually choosing 
 how their characters will be like. If you can't choose a class, you can first choose the best class 
 you like and multi-class your character (s) later on in the game. Incidentally, once you made your 
 choices and you press finish, you cannot change any stats or choices you make. However, because 
 of the aforementioned ability to multiclass and prestige class, you can always overcome any weakness 
 with the abiliites and feats associated with the other class. E. g Sorcerer/Fighter
  There definitely be replayability for this game especially since there is the toolset to play with 
 which i will not comment on because i have yet to play with it.
  
  Storyline
  
  So far, i cannot really say much about the storyline much later but i been playing Act 1 so far 
 and its been really very engaging. The story immerses you into the game and intrigue right from 
 the tutorial. Someplaces in the game looks creepy enough that makes you glad you have companions 
 (Did i mention you can have up to 3 companions to follow you, and that does not count in the familiars 
 or animal companions you can summon if you are any spellcaster or the ranger or druid, my personal 
 favorite without spoiling the game for anyone is the Rabbit familiar)
  
  Now the problems with the game
  
  Now after the hopefully glowing review, i have to say that 
 i am very disappointed with the developer. The game ships with plenty of bugs, crashes, technical 
 glitches that can be resolved with a competent Quality Assurance team. The fact is, the QA in the 
 game is seriously lacking. The NWN 2 community forum is full of game owners full of compaints of 
 crashes in the game, bugs reported, technical glitches. Even the first patch released by the Devs 
 has its own problems as some people reported that it froze halfway while installing. I will not 
 write a full report here though because no matter how disapointed i am with the bugs and crashes, 
 the game itself is a fun, immersive RPG game that IS worth the money. Just be prepared to go to 
 the community forums and wait for more patches from the Devs to patch the game up when you get 
 the game. Also a big tip for anyone, PLS make sure you have loads of space on your hard drive especially 
 where your operating system is. Because frankly, you need all the Hard disk space to play this 
 game as this game EATS up a whole lot of memory.
  
  Hence, in summary, it is an awesome game in terms of gameplay, But it is terrible with technical 
 glitches. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tybalt
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 6, 2006 3:50 pm PT
Review:  Big disappointment after the long wait, and it's hard to tell what Obsidian spent all that time 
 working on. Unless maybe it's the re-write of the Aurora toolset from the ground up? (I haven't 
 spent much time in the toolset yet, but I can already tell it's benefited hugely from the re-write, 
 both in terms of flexibility and GUI interaction.)
  
  But back to the game. I can't agree with the Gamespots assessment of the story as a very engaging 
 or multi-faceted one. The plot arc is very linear, and although Im looking forward to some replay 
 value, I expect to get it more from taking different builds through the game than from variety 
 in the story. Maybe Ill be pleasantly surprised.
  
  Its also possible that the story feels more disjointed and formulaic simply because the UI, gameplay, 
 and performance issues are such an impediment to immersion in what NWN2 has to offer. As pretty 
 much everyone has noted, the performance of the game is horrendous. On a system that rocks Oblivion 
 with 30+ FPS at 19x12 with most options cranked all the way up (including horizon distance) , NWN2 
 delivers 3-4 FPS out of the box. Yes, thats THREE to FOUR frames per second; total slideshow mode. 
 Dropping resolution down and turning off some of the bells and whistles lets me eke by in the pre-teens 
 for most of the game, still suffering through slideshows every now and then.
  
  With so much blood and sweat from the GPU, youd expect the game to look gorgeous, right? Wrong. 
 Oblivion with HDR? Thats gorgeous. This looks a lot like the original NWN, albeit with much higher-res 
 textures, and lots of particle effects on the magic weapons. My suspicion is that Obsidian really 
 hosed the management of light sources in the game, and that the GPU is constantly slaving away 
 to calculate shadows and light tones for scenes where it ultimately doesnt matter much.
  
  Although I really loved Baldurs Gate and Planescape, for sheer entertainment value I have to reluctantly 
 give NWN2 a 6. I do remember playing through Icewind Dale years ago, and this is pretty reminiscent 
 of that experience: heavy on the dungeon crawls, linear epic story, the usual  
 stuff. That said, NWN2 was a no-brainer purchase for me because of the community and the toolset. 
 Check out the participation level of Obsidian folks on the NWN community boards  its fantastic. 
 And Obsidian/Bioware are really doing a great thing in providing a kind of farm league for RPG-wannabes 
 to strut their stuff. I cant wait to sit down with the toolset over the holidays and really dig 
 in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Theolen
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 6, 2006 3:38 pm PT
Review:  You've read the praise. You've read the criticisms. Heard that NWN2 is a masterpiece of true CRPG 
 goodness, born from the sire of ALL rpg's: DnD. And also that NWN2 is a buggy, technical disaster 
 that was released too soon, feels unfinished, and doesn't compare to games like WoW, Oblivion, 
 or even the first NWN. So which is true? That, dear gamer, depends on what your PC is made of, 
 how patient and forgiving you are, and what you're expecting NWN2 to be.
  
  First off, NWN2 is NOT like any other RPG released in the last four years. It is *not* an emulation 
 of a real-time, living, breathing world, written specifically from the ground up for the PC anymore 
 than a good chess program is a realistic emulation of warfare. It's a simulation of the turn-based, 
 statistically and strategy-heavy DnD tabletop experience, following it's ruleset as faithfully 
 as possible, and after that criteria is met, to be an awesome storytelling toolset for authors 
 and Dungeon Masters, allowing them to do make whatever tales, characters and adventures they can 
 imagine in the DnD world, and after THAT, it delivers the eye candy, AI, and realism as much as 
 it can, without compromising what it's primary focus is: Not just an RPG, not just a CRPG, but 
 to be THE DnD-experience-on-the-PC. It never set out to be Oblivion, or WoW, or Titan Quest, or 
 Final Fantasy XII, or any other currently popular modern PC RPG game, and if you expect it to be 
 like them, you will come away sorely dissapointed. Expect DnD on the PC and it'll elate you. Expect 
 anything else, and it'll deflate you. Now on to the technical issues. My experience has been a 
 decent one on my 3.0 GHZ, 2gigs RAM, Ati X1600pro 512meg vRAM rig. I had no problems during install, 
 downloaded and installed the 83mb release day patch in about ten minutes or so, and was up and 
 running in the single player mode. An important note here however: Even though the size of the 
 patch is only 83mb, you will need over 5gigs of free space on your hard drive so it can shuffle 
 around all the game files during the patching process, as it modifies pretty much every file. If 
 you attempt to patch the game with less space, expect a crash.
  
  So, I fire it up, single player runs fine, graphics look great, with particular attention paid 
 to characters and creatures, and are much improved over the first NWN, about on par with EQ2 at 
 high settings, though it's not as pretty as Oblivion's environs, which is an unrealistic expectation 
 for NWN2 anyway, considering the complexity of the DnD ruleset emulation. I was disappointed to 
 find that many of the first NWN's sounds and voices have been re-hashed, but, as lazy as I think 
 that was for it's creators to do, it's only a minor detraction from the overall experience.
  
  The first real serious problem I ran into was in trying to host a server on multiplayer, and 
 trying to join my fiancee's server. I'm not sure if this is Gamespy's issue, or something particular 
 to the Neverwinter games, but you have to jump through hoops to get a successful connection, and 
 you have to seriously compromise your computer's security to do it. This has been a problem many 
 have had for the first NWN, and it's no different here, and I truly hope they fix it. My fiancee 
 ended up having to enable DMZ access and take down her DSL modem/router's hardware protections 
 in order to fix it to where we could play with each other in NWN2, and we still haven't figured 
 out how to get NWN1 to let us connect to one another, after trying port configs, dropping firewalls 
 etc. we have no problems with any other Multiplayer titles, like GW, WoW Tiger Woods 06, or Titan 
 Quest, and this game should be just as easy as those, there's no excuse for it.
  
  The second major issue is Atari's horrendous technical support policies when you have a problem 
 like the one I just mentioned. There is no number to call (Atari refuses to list one for the US) , 
 no easy to find email address (you have to dig very deep into their site to get it, and it's not 
 listed in the manual) , not even a board set up for NWN2 at release. NWN2 had multiplayer config 
 instructions in it's readme file, for example, but it didn't work for me or my fiancee'. Their 
 suggestions do not always work, and it's difficult to communicate to them that your having an issue, 
 or that their solutions aren't working for you. Even when you DO email Atari, they take a long 
 time to respond, if at all.
  
  But, those problems aside, NWN2 *itself* is an overall joy to play, provided your PC is capable 
 of running it smoothly (luckily, mine is) , especially for fans of DnD or deep RPG's, and will be 
 for many years to come. Character creation is detailed, with tons of racial / class combinations, 
 my favorite of which has to be the addition of the new planar-touched races, followed closely by 
 the additions of new sub-races. The campaign storyline is epic, involving, and has lots of unpredictable 
 moments. The voice acting is top-notch, characters and quests are genuinely interesting. Your actions 
 in the game influence the story, and those you interact with. The camera controls and UI do take 
 some getting used to, but are nowhere near as bad as some other reviews here would lead you to 
 believe. The camera works exactly the same way as NWN1's did, while the UI is noticably different 
 and requires a small amount of study, even if you played NWN1. But it's not more complex or cumbersome 
 to work with than the first NWN, just different. Finally, the game has THE best RPG creation toolset 
 out there, nothing else compares to it's ease of use, or it's power. Everything you experience 
 in the campaign that ships with the game can be done with the toolset. Remember that as you're 
 playing, and think of the possibilities and promise that entails.... From cutscenes to environments, 
 item creation, monster creation, graphics, scripting... all can be done, and I for one cannot wait 
 to see what is coming. Finally, I'm basing my review score on my own experience with NWN2, but 
 I do realize that many out there are having issues that need to be addressed by the game's creators. 
 I am overall very pleased with the game as it is and have the patience to wait until the bugs and 
 gameplay issues I find unpleasant are ironed out. But I would suggest to anyone out there considering 
 buying NWN2 to try it out first, grab a demo if one becomes available, or borrow a copy from a 
 friend to test it on your machine if you don't have that kind of patience. I'll tell you this though, 
 even if you think NWN2 isn't one of the greatest RPG's out there right now, I have no doubt that 
 within a year it will be, thanks to one of the greatest, most prolific, and most supportive communities 
 in all of gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gord_mose
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 6, 2006 1:57 pm PT
Review:  When I think about a great RPG I don't think about the graphics, or any technical shortcomings, 
 actually, I think about great characters, a universe that makes sense, and whether the game suspends 
 my disbelief or not.
  
  I can remember games that I thought had many great aspects, like Arcanum, for instance, or Fallout 
 2, but for me anyway, there was something about them; either a general lack of polish and professionalism 
 (Arcanum) , or a lack of approachability (Fallout 2) .
  
  And I think of games like the original Baldur's Gate, or the amazing Plansescape: Torment, and 
 how all of the negative aspects were completely outweighed by the positive. In the case of BG, 
 it really felt like a world of wonder; a world that had to be explored and appreciated, where you 
 met colorful characters and became a great and powerful hero. And in the case of P: T, it was a 
 game that oozed style, that titillated you, taught you, made you open the dictionary and figure 
 out what it was telling you. Those, to me, were great games.
  
  Now Neverwinter Nights 2 has received a lot of harsh criticism for a lot of reasons. Much of it 
 is deserved, and I don't think I've met an RPG, much less a game, that didn't deserve criticism. 
 And I will admit the camera is quite the mess; I didn't like the camera in NWN1 and this is in 
 many ways much worse. And I think the opening tutorial is pretty lame; thankfully it can be skipped 
 on repeat plays of the main campaign.
  
  But once I met the characters (the Dwarf and the Tiefling, for instance) , once I experienced some 
 of the dungeons, the graveyards and crypts by Fort Locke, for instance, and once I became immersed 
 in the colorful and charming world, I for one was convinced it was a great, great game.
  
  I don't expect it to disappoint either. I don't trust reviews except as a vehicle for information. 
 The information I have gathered from the reviews I've read has informed me that it's a game right 
 up my alley. And my pitiful little 2GHz P4 with 768MB RAM and its Radeon 9600 Pro, while slow, 
 does an admirable job with NWN2.
  
  All this makes me glad I paid my $50 and took a chance in the day and age when turned based RPGs 
 do not get released for the PC. This is the day of MMO games, FPS games, Tycoon games, action role 
 playing games, and SIMs games; this isn't the day of old school RPGs. NWN2 is an old school RPG 
 and a great one.
  
  I will return to console RPGs when NWN2 is over, that I'm sure about. Dragon Age will eventually 
 come out and I can try it, but for now, I will enjoy NWN2 on the PC. For now I'll appreciate what 
 Obsidian and Bioware and D&amp; D has given us; a gem, a solid, but flawed, gem. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Drekey
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 6, 2006 11:43 am PT
Review:  So there I was reading loads of reviews telling me how bad the game camera was, and how dreadful 
 the all gaming experience was getting thanks to that. Well as a NWN fan, a Atari fan, and a huge 
 D&amp; D fan I taught Drekey my boy just for the respect you have for Atari, lets try it out 
 so I went out and bought the game. I arrived home thinking well Ill install it later... no hurry 
 in being disappointed and that I did.
  
  This was last Saturday. 2 hours later I installed the game that NWN look brought back memories. 
 And for the next hour and a half I was thinking WHY CANT I GET THE F@#$ING CAMERA TO JUST FOLLOW 
 THE GOD DAMN DUDE!?!?! out of despair I step away from the game.. When out to shoot some guys 
 in CSS and after getting killed for the 20th time without even knowing where the dude was, I decided 
 to step right back into NWN2. The minute I arrived I found the amazing power of the middle mouse 
 button. but wait if instead of using the WASD I use the mouse to move, and the middle mouse button 
 to rotate the camera when needed, its really smoothens things great and I kept moving forward 
 in the game. Minutes later I found something else out. ok this graphics are known for being really 
 sucky ones.. But Im actually enjoying them. Theres no bugs in characters or weapons modulation 
 and even though I have the minimum required VGA card.. I still have a rusty, old, medieval, fantastic, 
 imaginarily, Dungeons and Dragons dirty look of the game. So I got to the point where I was playing 
 the game willingly, pretty comfortable with maneuvering the camera and very happy about my simple 
 but true and efficient graphics. Oh I know, a game its suppose to stun you dead.. like television.. 
 Youre just supposed to just have to think about the task at hand... like picking the right spell 
 for the right moment. But I see NWN2 maneuvering experience, like driving its complicated in 
 the beginning but once you get used to it, you dont even notice it anymore.
  
  So there I was killing the lizard king with that small minded fella called Bavil, when I realized 
 heck, I read somewhere that the plot was pretty crappy but here Im interrogating the lizard 
 leader, when I usually just get here, read a line or two and jump into to the frey, whats going 
 on I ask and I notice that the story actually made sense, and it was so interesting that it provoked 
 in me something Ive only experienced with Fable the lost chapter. I was actually interested in 
 Why are you here? and Do you know why they attacked you? so seeing that one of the points 
 I read in reviews was wrong, I started paying attention to every single detail of this amazingly 
 well done D&amp; D adaptation.
  
  2 more points: A. I. its crappy. Well its not an Black n White sure enough, but your suppose to 
 PAUSE the game and control your party members! If its a difficult or dangerous fight you cant 
 just let them roaming around the room, youre suppose to control them. The Pause key its one of 
 the most important keys to NWN2 single player experience, and if you dont know that, dont blame 
 the A. I. programmers, blame you for not knowing how to play a D&amp; D real-time game.
  
  They used the voices and sounds from NWN. Well yes, and no excuse in that. When I installed the 
 game I thought why in Olympus names do I have the same voice sets I had in NWN???? and I really 
 cant find a better answer then, market searches. They figured out that those voices made a great 
 impact in the NWN multiplayer community, and maybe they thought they wont mind having to pay 
 49 for a game with the same sounds as before! and well, they were wrong.
  
  Bottom line, its an amazing game, and a amazing experience. Im deeply involved in the story and 
 totally enjoying adventuring with my interesting party companions. A grumpy but good hearted dwarf 
 (who wouldve say) and a trust worthy tiefling (ok now that a new one) . The story Is great and 
 the voiceovers are amazing, real good actor work here. No amateur or over dramatic voices like 
 Oblivions (hold your stones, Im just talking about the voices, it is indeed one of the best games 
 ever) or other story telling games. So you have to get used to the game controls and camera and 
 have to forget about using the most unfitted WASD system ever implemented. Youll have to get used 
 to hear some of the same sounds again? Well it brings back memories and you have to have a amazing 
 pc for not so stunning graphics? Well gaphics aint all about flashy sparkling metals and fake reflexes 
 on water. Its much more. The movements of the characters, have you notice that? But do you mind 
 playing a game where you actually get to live a D&amp; D adventure well its not perfect of course.. 
 but its a great game, one of the best. I work in the industry, and Im a writer.. and I really 
 sea the value of their work here.
  
  Thanks for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MikeyDL
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 6, 2006 11:23 am PT
Review:  As a fanatic playing the original NWN I was really looking forward to picking up NWN2. I ran down 
 to the mall and picked it up on the first day released. I decided to write this review after only 
 about 20 hours into the game since I think I've seen most of what it has to offer.
  
  NWN2 is an excellent game in many respects. I love the way they model the D&amp; D 3.5 rule set 
 and creating and playing class characters is fantastic fun. The new graphics engine certainly look 
 great and I really enjoyed how different the equipment models look when outfitting your characters. 
 One thing I really thought was well done was the character voice models. I thought the developers 
 did an excellent job with the voice work for cut scenes and set a humorous tone in the game. With 
 many games I'll skip past the scripted cut scenes cause they don't hold my interest. With NWN2 
 I wanted to hear watch and listen to the dialog since it was entertaining. You might wonder why 
 I would give a game a 8+ rating but then classify it as Almost, but not quite. That is because 
 unfortunately NWN2 needs more work. There are some game play problems that need to be corrected. 
 It's feels like a rush product that could needed more refinement before being shipped.
  
  The graphics engine for the game looks very good. However, my computer is on the high end and although 
 I could play it at 1280 x 1040 resolution fairly well, I can imaging that lower grade computers 
 might end up being unplayable. Even on my system rotating the camera would cause frame rates to 
 drop low and you could the graphics skipping frames to catch up. The camera system is pretty much 
 exactly the same as it was in NWN. In the original you could rotate around your character, and 
 zoom in and so forth. That system has been retained in NWN2. Even so Obsidian could have taken 
 a hint from other products and put in a right mouse angle rotate into the camera system. The camera 
 system takes a hit since in the old NWN the graphics system didn't tax your computer as much. With 
 NWN2 my system would have frame skips just trying to rotate around the party.
  
  One thing that is broken in NWN is the pathing system. This isn't just a wish list complaint but 
 an actual broken item that will cause some players to quit in frustration. Even with your main 
 character there are many times where you will click an enemy to attack in a perfectly wide hallway 
 and after a few second notice that your character is still stuck in his original placement. I have 
 had to actually move backwards to clear a stuck path and then manually path out to a enemy target. 
 This can be extremely frustrating since these kind of mistakes can cause a party wipe it you don't 
 clue in quickly to what the problem is.
  
  Party AI also needs some work. I ended up putting the party on puppet mode allot of times. In most 
 dungeons or battle areas you have to inch your way forward area by area and not pull too many groups. 
 It you leave your characters in an AI mode they will often get hit by some far enemy target and 
 then run into the next room and often pull the next group. It's so bad that I've had situations 
 where one party characters has run through 1/3 of the dungeon area and pulled 15 to 20 enemy targets 
 which caused a wipe.
  
  The user interface also feels dated. I guess I m spoiled by the WOW inventory interface because 
 NWN2 inventory seems small and hard to manage. Certain things like having a mouse over stats for 
 an item instead of a right click might have made the inventory system more user friendly.
  
  There is also some work on the Mode settings that needs to be fixed as well. One thing with 
 NWN2 is that for wizards and sorcerer character's is that defensive mode casting is critical. Tossing 
 a fireball at a group of enemy targets just gets you instant aggro (sorry thinking WOW) and quick 
 death. That being said you can toggle a defense casting mode which avoids aggro at the cost of 
 a concentration check. However, unlike other modes which once toggled stay on until turned off 
 defensive casting seems to toggle off after random moments. You might have it on for one battle 
 then it toggles off in the next so your wiz, sorc wipes. Or you might manually toggle it on the 
 next battle only to turn it off and then your wiz, sorc wipes. My last issue is that certain games 
 always seem to lead the forefront of a genre. The player base expects more content and same basic 
 game play from expansion packs. But when developers release a new version of the game (example 
 GTA) usually there are major developments in the game play itself. NWN2 is a great game but it 
 feels basically like NWN game play in a new graphics engine. Other than the crafting system I didn't 
 feel like any new game play elements had been added. Perhaps it' unreasonable but I always expect 
 certain games to have more new features when published.
  
  Despite all of these issues which I have with NWN2 I still feel that the game was well done and 
 extremely enjoyable. The original NWN had a ton of patches which improved interface issues and 
 added additional modules to the game and I expect no less from Obsidian. NWN2 is an enjoyable game 
 which any RPG player will have to try out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RamiusV
Rating: 4.3
Date: Nov 6, 2006 9:09 am PT
Review:  I have to say despite the beautiful and rich graphics this game seems to be plagued by the same 
 sickness that has infected every Advanced Dungeons and Dragons game with the BioWare stamp on it 
 and that is player movement and interface. I was really hoping when I saw the driving camera 
 option that the game would play from a more 3D perspective sadly this is not the case. When a player 
 is in driving camera mode the screen does not turn with the player unless the player moves forward, 
 so one can turn 360 degrees and all the player will see is his/her character spin until the forward 
 movement key is pressed, then the area will spin around at a much slower rate then one is turning 
 giving the impression that the area is trying to catch up. Once the player lets off the turn movement 
 key the character doesnt stop right away but continues to turn briefly causing the player to compensate 
 by pressing the opposite turn key and that also causes the player to over compensate which creates 
 the effect of swinging side to side instead of walking a straight line. In top down mode one 
 misses out on the great graphics and is forced to repeatability left click the mouse ahead of them 
 to proceed. When the player has an encounter the NPCs are on top of the player by the time he/she 
 sees them since top down limits the area of view. Top down also keeps the main character centered, 
 but does not move the area around to reflect the direction the player is moving. In both modes 
 there are times when the player will find themselves using the area control keys to rotate the 
 area and these times are often. I found myself switching views rotating the area and basically 
 fighting with the camera during the entire play experience which felt more like work then play.
 
  
  Personally I think they need to forget about everything else and work on the interface design. 
 I do not know why they can not just have a 3D interface like all the rest where movement is smooth 
 and the world view turns with the player no matter if they are standing still or moving. I can 
 even see some advantages to a top down view now and then so if they could make a simple one click 
 or key switch between ONLY two different views it would be a great improvement.
  
  The truly sad thing is that there is so much to this game and it appears to be filled with rich 
 content not to mention the fact that people will be able to create their own content and I for 
 one wont be playing, because it is simply a pain to move about.
  
  As far as creating your own content I found the tool set in the first one to be much easier to 
 work with and with this set there is to much on my screen that I am not working with at the moment 
 causing things to be cut off to where I have to expand windows in order to see their full content 
 covering my working area and that seems to get in the way of the creative process. I do have to 
 confess that I did not spend much time in the tool set since by the time I started to look into 
 it I had pretty much given up on this game.
  
  I leave you now and go to see if there is some way I can get at least some of my money back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ikreyer
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 6, 2006 8:41 am PT
Review:  Let me preface this by saying that I'm not really a D&amp; D player, played table top maybe a couple 
 of times and didn't play NWN and Baldur's Gate at all so while this significantly reduces my expertise 
 on the subject but it lets me review this as a standalone product. Also you won't find anything 
 here regarding module creation tools, just the main campaign.
  
  Having recently suffered through Might and Magic Dark Messiah, this game really feels like a breath 
 of fresh air despite all the problems (not that numerous) . What does it for me here is first of 
 all writing, it really feels great to play a game where the story makes sense and every bit of 
 dialogue, no matter if you're talking to Lord of Neverwinter or an orc deep down in some crypt, 
 is carefully written. Obsidian really put a lot of effort in developing every single character 
 no matter how small and insignificant and it shows. Which is amazing considering how long the campaign 
 really is, you definitely get your money's worth in terms of content and that's even before we 
 take forthcoming community created modules into consideration. Really makes me wonder how we can 
 get so much content in RPG where so much work must be put into every character on your screen, 
 but we never get more than 15 levels in a main campaign of FPS shooters nowadays. Technically, 
 the interface has a few rough edges but for me personally the game has been very stable which is 
 good. Definitely a lot of shortcomings here, starting with unholy camera, clumbersome inventory 
 management and some combat bugs which sometimes leave you with no clue as to why you can't cast 
 a certain spell, or why doesn't it ask you for targets or why can't your character do anything 
 and is just standing there. These feel annoying but manageable, for me the only thing that lowers 
 the score down from perfect but it is something I'm willing to suffer through, especially since 
 most likely a few patches with smooth the rough edges out. Also, for some reason the game doesn't 
 think it should show you parameters like influence with your party members or your alignment numbers, 
 I'd be fine with that but it just feels weird having the game say this action shifted your alignment 
 3 points to Lawful but me having nowhere to see what it adds up to now. Either way, keeping it 
 brief, for me personally the deep campaign, great story and dialogue and decent if buggy combat 
 overweigh some interface shortcomings, so I give this a high score and can't wait to get home so 
 I can continue with the campaign.
  
  Thanks for listening. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NervoZa
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 6, 2006 6:44 am PT
Review:  I know that I may not have such a great gaming experience as others but i know when a game is great 
 only by spending my first 20 minutes in it. This game with it's ridiculous way of controling the 
 character is not one of them. It may have good graphics but that's not all that makes a game great. A 
 new game should be better, more interesting, easy to controll, look good and other stuff, but this 
 one is just not good enough for me. A good game for me is one like Fable The Lost Chapters. It looks 
 good it has a good story and it is user friendly when we speak about controlling the characters. So 
 before you give such great grades think twice because a game with such controlls just sucks! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jollyriot2k1
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 6, 2006 6:34 am PT
Review:  You can't mention a DnD based RPG without mentioning Baldur's Gate II. It set the bar at what these 
 games are capable of.
  
  One of my major criticisms of the original NWN was that the game was a pure 'tube' experience, 
 like other games that were getting released around the same time (Dungeon Siege) . It didn't matter 
 if you were good or evil because nothing would change. Now, NWN2 is not quite as open as BG2 was, 
 which is a letdown, but it at least has parallel story lines. They're quite big too. For instance, 
 at the moment I've now been going on this 'evil' arch in the story after making a choice a few 
 hours ago. I'd be doing something rather different if I'd gone the other way.
  
  The characters and storyline in this game are definitely one of the strong points. Party members 
 are FAR more interesting and definately add to the experience. Each one I've met so far has their 
 own story, and attract their own trouble in their associated quest lines. This is a huge plus over 
 the original NWN.
  
  The story itself starts off as pretty mundane and typical. I've actually got pretty engaged with 
 it, and find myself reading in-depth the dialogue and really caring about what I say in response. 
 Typically in RPG's I often find myself scan-reading the content and not really taking any notice. 
 This one has managed to grab my attention, and am enjoying following the tale.
  
  The DnD rule set always make for a solid RPG. The combat might appear 'weird' to some, because 
 what is actually happening is turn-based combat being emulated in real-time. This is NOT a hack 
 and slash. If you're looking for a diablo clone, go play titan quest. The combat is often too difficult 
 to be blas&eacute; about it, so you normally have to pay attention in combat situations.
  
  From an objective perspective, the graphics are pretty mediocre for modern standards. Not only 
 that but they run at pretty bad frame rates (assuming the game runs fine) .
  
  Many of the sound effects were re-used from the original NWN. This doesn't really effect much because 
 they were good sounds, it just feels a little too familiar to those who played a lot of NWN. Voice 
 acting is convincing enough in the cut-scenes.
  
  The game is LONG. I've probably played around 25 hours (bear in mind I participate in 90% of the 
 side-quests) so far, and the game isn't letting up. As in, the storyline isn't looking conclusive 
 or like it's gonna end at the moment. Games SHOULD be this long - not 4 hours. For value, it scores 
 really high, not to mention that there will be a host of decent player content created. It's definately 
 worth noting the technical issues of the game. Personally, the game works fine for me, however 
 there are massive issues. Basically those on mid-end systems like mine (amd64 3500, 2gig ram, X850XT) 
 are running it fine. Those on top-end systems are having huge issues, and due to the low FPS on 
 the whole thing, those on low-end systems are also having problems. There are threads on forums 
 about who can run what on which systems - I would strongly recommend looking out for your hardware 
 setup on these. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lmollea
Rating: 6.7
Date: Nov 6, 2006 6:27 am PT
Review:  I liked very much the first NWN. Yes, it had the problem that outdoor areas were tile-based and 
 not like other 3D games, but in the end the story and the game made this missing feature a minor 
 defect.
  With NWN2 atari tried to close that gap, but... The result is not what it should have been. I agree 
 with Gamespot's review, but I consider that this problems are not minor.
  The look of the game seems worse that the predecessor.
  And we're talking of a beast that needs 
 at least a 128MB video card (NWN 1 played very good on a 32MB one) !
  No, that is not good at all.
  Especially compared to something like Dark Messiah Of Might And 
 Magic.
  
  Yes, the game and the editor seems to have remained of the same quality, but that enormous waste 
 of graphic resources are not at all a good point for the game.
  
  To me the score of 10 I gave to the orginal NWN is far far away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deth7
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 6, 2006 5:04 am PT
Review:  Gameplay - 9
  
  The used and used Dungeons and Dragons system doesn't fail this game, in fact it moves in and embraces 
 every bit of Neverwinter Nights. They've evolved to D&amp; D 3.5 from 3, so that means new classes 
 and more fun. The Warlock's made his appearance in the game now and is ready to pull off some fun. 
 While the D&amp; D system does begin to get old, Neverwinter Nights 2 keeps it up and exciting through 
 a dynamic story and interesting Side-Quests with intelligent dialogue.
  
  Graphics - 9
  
  GS gave the graphics a very low score, which just wasn't fair. This game's graphics are very 
 good, obviously GS didn't know the Draw Distance Bug. This bug causes Draw Distance to appear without 
 any decay so it really lags your system down, if you have problems turn it ALL the way down. Second 
 to that, the graphics are great. The texturing done to equipment mixes well with the customizable 
 armor. Weaponry has been very well textured as well as modeled. The light and shadows in this game 
 are very immersive and will prove to you to be just as good as Oblivion's.
  
  Sound - 7
  
  The sound of NWN1 is used over, which has netted it a lower score, because overall the sound 
 is still great. Sadly the reusing of NWN1 sound was a bit pathetic in my opinion, maybe the spells, 
 voices, or something could've made an appearance, but they kept ALL the sounds, and added a few 
 more. Value - 10
  
  Instant Classic. This game will have many expansions and a gigantic player-base Single Player and 
 Multi Player. There'll be no RPG to top this for a very long time.
  
  Tilt - 10
  
  I could replay this game under all sorts of different races, classes, and alignments to just get 
 a feeling for what the game's like from these new perspectives, as well as take new choices throughout 
 the game's quest, There is massive replayability in this game, so buy it and embrace it. You'll 
 be doing yourself a favor. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dannyatkinson
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 6, 2006 4:58 am PT
Review:  There are a couple of minor glitches but the patch definitely helps.
  They will no doubt have the bugs worked out soon.
  Even with the glitches this is by far the 
 king of all rpg's out on the market today.
  I have been so dissapointed in RPG's in the last few years.
  The only exception being Knights 
 of the old republic.
  Games like Oblivion which claim to be an rpg are ruining what is left of the RPG scene. The horrible 
 onset of the MMO's are one of the main things killing RPG's today. I refuse to buy any of them.
 
  Thank you Obsidion for showing us that RPG's are still alive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ciwell
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 6, 2006 4:40 am PT
Review:  Although the graphics are not Obsidian-like, do not let that fool you. Not only is the story engaging, 
 the sheer amount of customization that is available to you is outstanding. The toolset that comes 
 with the game allows you the freedom and ease-of-use necessary to make your own sandbox to play 
 in. Better yet, invite your friends in and the fun really begins. Other qualities that are notable 
 in Neverwinter is the sound and voice-acting. Although it is not top tier, it is sufficient and 
 helps to augment the experience. That being said, give Neverwinter a try, but remember this is 
 NOT WOW or Obsidian, but is a different style of game. If you enjoy actually roleplaying and the 
 DnD environment, this game is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: simbasa
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 6, 2006 4:16 am PT
Review:  That tells you there are some serious issues with this game and perhaps the guys don't know how 
 to compress data. Its very good if you can run it right but already hit alot of bugs even with 
 the patch. I'm just gonna save this for my new PC and wait until more patches come out. It's a 
 really good game..... as long as the patches fix it. Maybe in a month or two it will be the game 
 it should have been at launch. Until then there are plenty of other great games to fill up our 
 time with. Happy Holidays. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Necronmaniac
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 6, 2006 3:45 am PT
Review:  Neverwinter nights was, for me, one of the best D&amp; D RPG's ever so to say I was looking forward 
 to this sequel would be understatement of the year. After it arrived in the mail i tore off the 
 wrapping slapped the DVD in my computer and got it installed.
  
  As many have already said, the character creation tools are really well implemented and creating 
 a character can now be as quick or as long a process as you like. I must be honest in my fervor 
 to play the game i simply threw my character as quickly as possible but the other thing I noticed 
 that I liked was that it had an option to choose a Weapons Master configuration button. The weapons 
 Master is a Prestige Class that fighters can take later in the game and instead of constantly checking 
 what feats and skills you need to get there, clicking this button will automatically configure 
 your feats towards this prestige class.
  
  But what about the game itself? Well, the tutorial section, for want of a better way of putting 
 it, is actually really well done and good fun to play, as well as obviously easing you into the 
 game and how it works and introducing you to the storyline. Graphically the game looks excellent, 
 however as has been said its graphics are not THAT good that they justify the specs the game requires. 
 Not only that but my PC exceeds the recommended specs by some way and still struggles sometimes 
 in outdoor areas when all the spell effects are going off.
  
  The story is pretty standard fare, but it is still engaging and keeps you wanting to play. Some 
 of the characters you meet along the way are great (khelgar the dwarf being one such example) though 
 one of the games biggest let downs is the party AI. I play with the difficulty set to Hardcore 
 D&amp; D rules and this can lead to all sorts of problems with your party attacking each other because 
 your wizard decided to cast a fireball spell whilst they where all in melee (yes its happened to 
 me a number of times) and you end up having to literally seperate all your party members from one 
 another to stop them killing each other. The problem with spellcasters also means that I have found 
 that manually controlling the spellcasters during combat is the only way to prevent them frying 
 your own party.
  
  That is really the story of neverwinter nights 2, its a great game but it has a number of minor 
 niggles that, the longer you play become more and more annoying. Neverwinter Nights 2 is a great 
 game but I cant help but feel like Obsidian missed the opporunity to create something REALLY special. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stev69
Rating: 5.7
Date: Feb 10, 2007 10:40 am PT
Review:  So another installment in the Neverwinter series, and not a little anticipated it has to be said. 
 I for one have been chomping at the bit for this one to come out, my initial reaction was ermmmm.... okay, 
 and from then on its been more or less the benefit of the doubt. Ok to start on the plus side those 
 of you who've played previous games from this developer and along the D&amp; D intellectual property 
 lines arent likely to be disappointed. The fantastic and in depth character creation and development 
 commonly used by Obsidian is there and is in sparkling form too, could perhaps have done with more 
 versatile character customization options in the visual department, but all the skills, feats and 
 background knowledge are there. The user interface has been given a nice coat of paint and the 
 inventory icons have been tarted up since the last outing (thank god!!!) . Another nice addition 
 (and about time it has to be said) is the crafting system, not much more needs to be said on that 
 really your character now has the options of creating weapons, armor and magical items (potions 
 etc) . With high quality graphics and at times stunning visuals, its certainly a worthy effort. 
 On the negative side of things lets start with the awful camera controls, how on earth could the 
 developers have not learnt from there last mistake?! Quite simply put the camera views are laborious 
 and frustrating to control, even for one who is accustomed to the Neverwinter series. Why they 
 didnt go for something similar to KOTOR II is quite beyond my comprehension while still not the 
 best it is certainly a more user friendly camera than this cumbersome monstrosity. A. I (party A. I 
 in particular) is another thing that really needs to be scrutinised more, obsidian seem intent 
 on trying to make it more complex. But it appears to me that they are trying to run before they 
 can walk, as the basic A. I just isnt up to the job. And if you cant get the basics right then it 
 doesnt matter how much you add to it or tweak it. Perhaps if they simplifid it and trimmed away 
 the dead wood, rather than adding to an already poor system to make it just too overburdened. The 
 amount of times ive had nearly dead characters charge off into the midst of a group of enemies 
 (not even on screen) and get killed is unbelievable. They aint no good to you dead but they seem 
 to have a death wish or at the very least suicidal tendencies (can be very frustrating) . At times 
 the total lack of control feels like you are just an observer rather than the leader of a group 
 of adventurers. In fact I cant remember a time when ive had to endure such a poor A. I, seemingly 
 at random party members decide they arent going to follow the rest of the group anymore and would 
 much rather stand around scratching their unmentionables, manys the time ive found myself charging 
 alone into battle wondering where the F&pound;$K!!! my so called allies are, imagine my frustration 
 when i look back only to find them at various different places along my previous route admiring 
 the view. Not only this even when they are close enough to participate in combat sometimes still 
 they just stand there doing sweet FA!!. This total abomination which passes for an A. I leaves me 
 heading rapidly for the desktop, before my desktop rapidly heads for the window..... hmmm perhaps 
 the devs got artificial intellegence mixed up with artificial ignorance. As for the plot well so 
 far (although I admit I may be jumping the gun, but time will tell) its nothing new, your typical 
 bog standard outcast and save the world job. I know the developers were aiming for a linear storyline 
 but the sheer lack of anything else to do really comes off as a negative for me, most locations 
 dont contain anything worth searching or exploring for, the maps are mostly revealed to you at 
 the start of each area and your goals can be quickly attained with a minimum off fuss and adventure 
 (not what D&amp; D is all about surely?) . The lack of having any real player input into the story 
 also has me a bit stumped, many options on the conversation topics dont actually change anything 
 within the game. For example when you come across a new NPC whom you dont want to join you it doesnt 
 matter how rude you are to them, or how many times you tell them to kindly take there foul presence 
 elsewhere, they still seem to end up tagging along in an ever growing army of followers. Which 
 left me feeling like it doesnt matter what I do the game has already decided what must happen, 
 all I have to do is win the fights in between. Personally with regards to the plot line i think 
 the developers are missing the point, although D&amp; D is about a fantastic story, its also about 
 individual (or group) player input, innovationsand freedom of choice!. I found this game to be 
 more like reading a story book (and not a very interactiveor interesting one) , and the truth is 
 if I wanted to do that I would go out and buy one. So in summing up not a bad game but pretty much 
 run of the mill, I was expecting so much more. I cant get over the feeling that obsidian have dropped 
 the ball here, it was such a great opportunity and it feels like its been wasted. So the question 
 everyone seems to asking or thinking, how does it compare to oblivion and the answer is..... it 
 doesnt (and quite possibly shouldnt) . At the end of the day they are two completely different methods 
 of creating an rpg. For me Oblivion is my preferred style of play, even though I much prefer D&amp; D 
 intellectual property rather than Bethesda's choice, Oblivion actually immerse's you into a new 
 world, while NWN II feels more like an outside looking in experience. So if you were to ask me 
 should I buy this game I would just say meh!
  
  As for the difficulty level on the scoring bit I put just right but its actually as difficult as 
 you want to make it for yourself. there just isnt an option fo that. Oh and sorry for the lack 
 of paragraphing I have actually tried to do it on numerous ocassions but game spot doesnt seem 
 to like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nikolaipetrovic
Rating: 6.2
Date: Nov 6, 2006 2:41 am PT
Review:  A friend of mine bought the game and was kind enough to invite me over for a gaming session... 
 Unimpressive! System requirements are outrageous for the outdated graphics.
  Yes, I am well aware of the fact that NWN series is not played for its graphics and I respect that... 
 But, and it's a huge BUT, poor 3-D engine optimization just shows the lack of dedication on developers' 
 part. This lack of dedication to the project spills over into every other aspect of NWN2 and it 
 is soooo obvious.
  
  Some gamers are finding it hard to even play the game, regardles of their hardware. You should 
 check Bioware forums, it's ridiculous. Gameplay is buggy. Music and sounds reused from the original 
 NWN. What did they spend their budget money on???
  
  After postponing release for as long as Obsidian did, the current state of the game is UNACCEPTABLE!!!
 
  
  People are already selling their copies of NWN2 for bargain prices and the most honest of them 
 even tell you why. You don't have to believe me, just check Amazon. com
  
  Obsidian... You have been measured, you have been weighed, and you've been found wanting. Oh, and 
 thanks for doing such a crapy job on KOTOR2. If it wasn't for KOTOR2 I would probably have NWN2 
 pre-ordered. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gragnak
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 6, 2006 1:40 am PT
Review:  I think this game can be the best on the market or a big delusion. It depends by what you are looking 
 for. Personally, I think this is a good game. The gameplay is similar to the Baldur's Gate series 
 with a lot of fun managing your characters during combat (enable PUPPET MODE!!!) . Fights require 
 strategy decisions. The KOTOR system is a good way to look for a deeper approach with your party 
 (they're not only your pack mules but adventure companions with a mission) . You have to think much 
 more than a classic Hack and Slash rpg (i leave to you the choice if it's right or not to call 
 these games rpgs ) . In this game it's important to choose wisely your party composition (a good 
 sorcerer at your side is a MUST) , choose which skill and feats to develop, play slowly enjoying 
 the story and not slashing everything to loot monsters.
  The feeling is near the pen and paper game, so I can accept the ugly graphic. Gfx is not what I 
 look for in a good rpg. And this IS a good RPG.
  
  I was really bored with all this first person rpgs pumped up with graphics (useless withoput deep 
 gameplay system) , free action (useless without and inspiring sungle player campaign) , big words 
 and few old school appeal. NeverWinter Nights 2 is what i was waiting for. P. S.
  Difficult to explain: why so high sys req with a graphic that's certainly not the state of the 
 art? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: k_bingham
Rating: 7.7
Date: Nov 6, 2006 12:37 am PT
Review:  A few other reviews have hit on these points, but I'll reiterate them. The right-click, circular 
 menu options of (any) object was nice. Interface changes, why?
  There is no right clicking on things and no bashing for example. In fact, to bash a chest, you 
 have to go to an NPC, set him to attack locks when party leader fails, then he'll bash it after 
 you try and fail.
  
  I couldn't figure out how to just bash stuff. You used to be able to do that by right clicking. 
 Where that neato menu with the bash option went, I've no clue.
  
  In NWN you could enter about any door you found. You'd find an old woman, a family, a kid a dog, 
 or a quest, or just a coin or two.... something. Here, it's the opposite. Almost no door is openable, 
 and it makes the world smaller. You leap around using portals. They didn't bother creating contiguous 
 maps. Which is good if you need to zoom to a merchant because you can just go. Functionally, it's 
 easier to avoid wasting time walking back and forth. On the other hand, it kinda points to just 
 get it done ...
  
  Spell Casting
  Spell casting appears to be busted in some ways... In fact, it doesn't seem to really work all that 
 well 10% of the time. Call lightning for example. I guess the DnD rules must be the lightning is 
 called where you are, so those near you get nailed. Well, this spell needs a target, so you click 
 to cast the spell, and you choose a target. Okay, well you must choose yourself. So before you 
 figure it out, you'll click on the spell, then try to click a target (ground or an enemy or something) , 
 and nothing will happen, then you'll click it on yourself, and the spell will work centered on 
 you. The reason it took me so long to try this with call lightning is because of this: Earlier 
 in the game, I was trying to cast another spell, can't recall the name, worked the same way. It 
 required I cast the spell and choose myself as the target, and then when I cast it, I killed myself. 
 I agree that hardcore DnD rules (the setting I'm using) are a great option, but I know that hardcore 
 DnD rules do not work this way. What's the point of calling a fire based spell that will only use 
 me as the center , and that when I get it off, does damage mainly to me? Even if I'm a retard and 
 not getting the casting of these spells, I'm 100% sure that in NWN I never cast a spell that would 
 ONLY work if I selected myself as a target and which then killed me. I would have rememberd this 
 kind of thing.
  
  In NWN I If there was an assumed target, spells always worked when I just pressed the hot key.
 
  
  Sounds
  Reusing NWN sounds is fine with me. No reason to reinvent the wheel as long as you add some nuance, 
 which they did.
  
  What's missing is all of the polish in NWN. But polish is very time consuming -- clearly, they didn't 
 have time to polish it. They have new features. They should have been added to the interface. They 
 simplified the interface way too much. If I right click in any program on the planet, and I don't 
 get any pop-up menu when I do so, it pisses me off. They didn't take the time to make a right click 
 menu for me, and I know they just didn't bother. Right clicking is very important in this world 
 folks.
  
  I mean, it's still a fun game. Don't think it's lame. It's quite fun really. I intend to finish 
 it, surely, because these are relatively minor and maybe they could be added. The game isn't completely 
 broken, that's for sure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnjaha99
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 6, 2006 12:19 am PT
Review:  I see alot of mixed reviews on this game and they are probably all justified depending on what 
 your expectations were. Given the game had a short development time and probably only half the 
 budget of the original Neverwinter, my expectations were tempered. To the dedicated RPG fan its 
 pretty much a must buy, the story is lengthy at 40+ hours and the dialogue is well written which 
 of course is a given being made from Obsidian (KOTOR2, Fallout, Planescape) . Not to mention quality 
 single player RPGs are somewhat of a dying breed. To the borderline fan who is more of an action 
 oriented RPG player in the vein of MMORPG or Diabloesque games, its a close call. Gameplay: The 
 Gamespot reviewer exaggerated the camera controls somewhat, they take some getting use to but can 
 be tweaked quite a bit. Although the combat is still turn based, it feels alot more up close and 
 personal than the previous NWN. The spell effects are among the best seen in a game and really 
 draw you in. The game is somewhat linear, at least early on, but probably a neccesity since it 
 has voice acted in game cinemas. These scenes help move the story along in a theatrical fashion 
 and defenitely helps create some memorable characters the first NWN was missing. As far as character 
 development your allowed alot of freedom to play good to borderline evil. The way your party members 
 react to your decisions and others is something not scene since Baldurs Gate.
  
  Graphics: Here is one spot that feels rushed. The engine runs poor even on beefy computers with 
 all settings jacked. Some of the outside heightmapped areas look pretty artistic but its no Oblivion. 
 The inside areas still use a tile system similar to the original NWN and look average to downright 
 poort. The character models will not impress anyone, but are passable. Animations are choppy at 
 times, but not a huge issue. HDR and Anti Aliasing are sorely missing from the game. Whether they 
 will be able to be added in a patch is still in question.
  
  Sound: There are some great new soundtracks added, and some recycled ones from the first NWN as 
 well. Same with sound effects, you will defenitely recognize some SFX like spell casting chanting 
 right off the bat. I'm guessing Obsidian figured why fix what isn't broke (and save a few $$$ as 
 well) .
  
  Value: Nothing in the game industry could match the original NWN in pure value, you ended up getting 
 a 50 hour SP game and 4000 free mods to download (some really excellent ones I might add) . Not 
 to mention many quality persistent worlds with great communities. Free of course - which is something 
 you cant say about games like WoW. I don't think NWN2 will quite match the first ones in community 
 made material, but there is still not doubt it will have unsurpassed value.
  
  Tilt: Normally this is where a game like NWN2 would get a 10 because its so much more than just 
 the sum of its parts, but it also is where it has to be docked for aiming too low . Character customization 
 is a little weak, everyone in the world still is in an anti-horse cult, a big sticking point for 
 as we know horses=cars during this time. No one can do any climbing, swimming, or flying further 
 giving the NWN2 engine a half-baked feel. So yes the game is more of a glorified expansion, but 
 should still be a buy for most for fans of this genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: owenx
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 5, 2006 10:27 pm PT
Review:  Well i played all the nwn series and let me tell you something yea of course they respect the D&amp; D 
 rules, the story play its awesome, the graphics are kinda astonishing, the sounds are improved 
 (just a few of them) but...
  
  Its not worthy yet i read a few reviews from other users and i do agree that the game is far away 
 to be a retail, its too buggy and even when you patch the game it became more unstable, the controls 
 are not yet improved from the previous nwn, and what i do see its that the guys of obsidian tried 
 to copy the improvements of the kotor 2 motor and fuse them with the nwn universe, but what they 
 lack is:
  
  1. I thought that they were gonna make and improve in the animation of the physical skills like 
 those of the rogue (rolls, acrobatics) you just get the same message from acrobatic: succeed and 
 go on..
  
  2. The game is not well optimized it haves a few glitches and it force you to change to one char 
 (they tried to copy the style play of the baldur's game series and ice wind dale)
  
  3. Some mods can improve your original NWN to a match of this NWN 2, im kinda disappointed i expected 
 more.
  
  But well thats just an opinion you can say that its not a pro opinion but after the hopes i was 
 giving for this game yeah well, still give it a try if you are new to this kind of game you will 
 love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tactician
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 5, 2006 6:05 pm PT
Review:  About my only complaint with this game is that there is a bit of a graphical slowdown but if you 
 tweak it enough it runs quite well. In the way it was designed it does future proof the engine 
 a bit as it will continue to look good and run well as newer computers start to add greater graphical 
 power. Now for the game:
  
  The story is well constructed. I really do enjoy the play though and the design is far more open 
 than in the first Neverwinter. Think Baulders Gate with regard to the overview map. The system 
 of map highlights keeps being added to as you progress and you are free to move between the areas. 
 There are also random encounters. This game has a well built toolset as well so you can author 
 your own mods. My hope is that the community will keep this interesting for some time. I am looking 
 forward to community offerings and I am sure obsidian will make several expansions if not some 
 from Bioware. All in all this is a great game, as compelling as Neverwinter with improvements over 
 it that Baulders gate had (yeah!)
  
  Now go get it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: briggadude
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 5, 2006 4:01 pm PT
Review:  I never played the original Neverwinter Nights. Nor am I all that knowledgeable in the world of 
 D&amp; D. However, I am no stranger to RPG's. Maybe this gives me an unbiased view on the game, 
 maybe it makes me some unenlightened noob, I don't know. I'd heard nothing but good things about 
 the original and the sequel looked pretty promising so I figured I'd pick up a copy and boot it 
 up.
  
  Immediately, I was shocked by the steep hardware requirements. My system, which runs most present 
 day games without a hitch, was a little laggy. I found this surprising since the game at its highest 
 quality doesn't even look that good. Fine, I said. You play RPG's for the story, not for graphical 
 splendour (though it's nice) . I tune down the effects somewhat, bada-bing, no more lag.
  
  A few hours into the game, I'm hunting around with my party, and I'm disappointed once again. On 
 numerous occasions my character would get stuck in a spot or magically teleport to another. In 
 dungeons, NPC's get stuck even more often, and their AI is inconsistent, though this is somewhat 
 remedied by the fact that control can easily be transferred to give them commands, but it's still 
 a hassle. Further complicating things is the camera, which is in constant need of adjustment. With 
 these constant entanglements, gameplay is slowed down to a crawl. I have nothing wrong with the 
 D&amp; D click and attack gameplay, but when it's done so slowly, it becomes tedious and boring.
 
  
  Having listed my primary complaints, I will say that the character development is extremely immersive 
 and well structured. The story isn't half bad either and the voice overs add well to the atmosphere. 
 Is this enough to overcome the games technical errors? I say no. This game should still be in development. 
 Characters getting stuck in the map? For a major blockbuster game like this, that's shameful. I'd 
 rather wait another year for a solid game than one so hampered with bugs. If I'm shelling out 50 
 bucks for it, the developers can at least make some effort to fix these antiquated bugs of yesteryear.
 
  
  That said, I will continue playing the game for a while because I hear that the real beauty of 
 NWN comes from the mod community. Hopefully, someone will make a mod that fixes these costly, yet 
 trivial problems. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bankisa
Rating: 4.7
Date: Nov 5, 2006 2:05 pm PT
Review:  Never Winter Nights 2 Review
  
  There main site here has a comprehensive review of the game so I wont banter on about the ins and 
 outs of the plot, however I do think that there are a couple of game breaking issues that do need 
 to be raised.
  
  1) The camera in NN2 is awful. I mean really really awful. It will not look where you want it to, 
 you spin it around by holding the middle mouse button in, and when doing this it feels unresponsive 
 and slow. There is nothing in the way of a Smart mode so it is totally down to you to turn the 
 camera each time your character changes direction (About 5 times a minuet) and when fighting or 
 moving indoors (a large part of the game) the scenery and rooms do a great job of getting in the 
 way of the action.
  
  2) The controls for the player are very poor, the action bar is ill thought out, and limited too 
 far to few slots for the spells and items that you are given. The path finding is appalling with 
 characters often getting themselves stuck on fences, the corners of buildings or in other equally 
 stupid places. The Quick Spell menus of the first NN have been removed and replaced with a clunky 
 action menu that appears if you hold down the right button or a second (Something that means you 
 cannot use the quick menu without pausing since youll end up targeting the wrong mob in the fray 
 of combat; a bit useless really.) 3) The combat is awful and extremely unsatisfying. As a melee 
 fighter is bad, a case of click an enemy, watch as your real time character runs up to them (Or 
 about half the time just doesnt bother; go figure) and then stands their till their Initiative 
 pass so that they can attack. This leads to the feeling that the game is sluggish and that you 
 have no real control over the combat. The same happens with the magic users but even more so, click 
 to cast your spell and then pray that your imitative pass comes soon. soon please. oh crap your 
 targets already been killed by the melee party memberand then you fire that spell making pretty 
 sparks over the screen and doing absolutely nothing of worth. You get the picture.
  
  There are a few bits in NN2 that make me want to like it, Im a long time RP fan and I also play 
 D&amp; D (the Book version of the game) so I really should like this game. The characters are nice 
 if generic, and the games makes a reasonable attempt to bring the Forgotten Realms to life, but 
 ultimately is failed by a stupid combat system that dosnt know if it wants to be action RPG or 
 turn based and a control and camera set-up that would put off all but the most hardcore of RP fans.
 
  
  Approach with extreme caution and if in doubt stick with the first game, it may be ageing but its 
 a million times better than this tech disaster. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arfurboy
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 5, 2006 12:52 pm PT
Review:  Neverwinter Nights 2 is a really strange game at first. Before playing I first read the manual 
 and wow... weird rules and dungeon and dragons stuff. The rules kind of made me doubt the game 
 at first, but i as i started to get the hang of it in the tutorial they have. I think anyone who 
 has read the forgotten realms books will be pretty pleased with the magic part of the game, but 
 sadly the weapon combat doesnt look as cool as you can imagine it being like in the books. I never 
 played Neverwinter Nights original and after playing this i want to since my comp can barely support 
 NWN2 lol. And yes people were correct when they said that NWN2 doesnt have the best graphics in 
 the world but they are still good. The game has many voices for different characters which i think 
 are a lot better than Oblivion. Oh yeah and talking about Oblivion, the females in NWN2 are not 
 an eye sore like Oblivion females. I havent tried out the toolset yet but from what i have heard 
 from my friends, the toolset is very good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrshivery
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 5, 2006 6:16 am PT
Review:  This has been one of my better purchases in a long tine. Let me break it down.
  
  Graphics: Upgraded, love the new 3d models, some improvements could be made to smooth things out 
 a bit, but they'll come.
  
  Character creation: Not as in debt as I would like, but still pretty decent.
  
  Sound: Sounds 
 just as good as the first one.............. because they used most of the same music/sounds/voices. 
 They are good, but I would like to see more..... they will come.
  
  Gameplay: I have no problems with it, yeah sure at first the camera seems kinda weird to fool around 
 with, but you get used to it just like any other game, same with the GUI, you will adapt, its really 
 not that hard to deal with. There are many different views you can take, use what is most comfortable.
 
  
  Value: It is, and will be worth well more than the 50 bucks you paid for it, don't forget NWN1 
 was'nt too good at its first release, then with a few patches and some brilliant user made content 
 it became the best RPG of all time, I would hold on to this one if I were you, even after your 
 done the single player campaign.
  
  You will need a decent computer to run it, I have a 3Ghz 1 gig of RAM Radeon 9800 pro and I can 
 only run it on low settings with the second to lowest resolution...... I will get about an average 
 of 30fps. So if you got a system that can handle it I would recommend buying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XNbuck
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 4, 2006 10:45 pm PT
Review:  After playing NWN2 for a few days now, I can say that I really like it. I don't really see what 
 all the hate is about; especially on the graphics. While I get a little bit of choppiness, all 
 in all it runs smoothly. I had to turn X-Fire off and not run any apps in the background, but that 
 is not a problem. The story is good and the characters are really enjoyable. The depth you can 
 go to in character creation is incredible and somewhat staggering for people not used to the D&amp; D 
 3.5 system. Best of all, there will soon be hundreds of modules to play so the adventure can continue 
 indefinately (OK, so 90% of the mods will be awful... but there will be some stellar ones) . The 
 only weak points I have seen are: the sound isn't that great and rehashes a lot of sounds from 
 NWN1; the AI for NPCs is sometimes dumb, but that can be taken care of by manually controlling 
 them (which is easy to do) ; and it takes a little bit of tweaking to get the game running smoothly 
 (I have a 2.8 pentium, 2 gig ram, and a 7600gt card and can run it on high settings with very slight 
 choppiness [HINT: turn off background apps] ) .
  
  If you liked the first NWN, you will like this one better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ed1bleTal2get
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 4, 2006 10:41 pm PT
Review:  Ive been waiting years for this game to come out, and Im not disappointed. It feels a lot like 
 the old game, pretty much almost exactly. This can be good and bad, good being that I feel like 
 Im playing NWN, but bad because it brings back the hard to adjust camera and the touchy movement 
 controls.
  
  Im a little ways into the story and I think the single player is even better this time around from 
 the first time, due to the more interactive companions. You might as well call this game Neverwinter 
 Nights of the Old Republic, because the companions act much as they did in KotOR and KotOR2.
  
  Overall, I say this game is definately great and worth picking up if youre into rpgs. Only 
 things lacking is the bugs that I am sure will be cleaned up in the next few patches.
  
  I cant wait to see the modules this game brings =D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Data463
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 4, 2006 9:58 pm PT
Review:  There, I said it. So many reviews of NWN2 feel the need to compare it with Oblivion that I thought 
 a reality check was in order. Oblivion is an action-adventure game with roleplaying elements. To 
 call it a true roleplaying game would be like calling a Yugo a true sports car just because it 
 shares something in common with a Ferrari (like, perhaps, seats or a manual transmission) .
  
  But this is a review of Neverwinter Nights 2, so on with the show. To put it simply, it's a 
 breath of fresh air after worrying that the commercial success of the Bethesda title would cause 
 other developers to go for that dumbed down, but good looking RPG approach. While not perfect, 
 NWN2 retains that classic D&amp; D feel by giving you the opportunity to craft a character and then 
 unleash it into the world, and having the world take notice. You can be a kind and benevolent good 
 guy, an evil blackguard, or anything in between and the world reacts accordingly. Character interaction 
 is fantastic, with some excellent writing. Given the pedigree of the Obsidian developers, this 
 comes as no surprise. You're drawn into the story, and can play your character true to his or her 
 nature, and the story accommodates nicely. There is little left to the imagination. While that 
 last point may seem like a bad mark on the game, consider it in context. Other games purporting 
 to be role playing games make wide allowances for the imagination in lieu of a thorough and thoughtful 
 story. While some may have fun pretending to have a job, eat, go to the bathroom, etc., these activities 
 are what have to be resorted to in order to keep the game interesting. Obsidian, in contrast, provides 
 us with rich and involving game with plenty of things to do from a role player's perspective that 
 such make-believe tomfoolery is unnecessary. To put it succinctly, if I wanted a game that required 
 me to make it up as I go, I wouldn't spend the money on software. Notepad would suffice.
  
  As I said before, the game isn't perfect, and it would be unfair if I didn't point out the bad 
 with the good. None of these things are game breakers, but they can be frustrating. First is the 
 camera. While 95% of the time, everything is fine, there are times when the camera will get hung 
 up in scenery. I haven't had my party get wiped due to that, but it has contributed to some hairy 
 situations. Actually, that's the only negative thing I can find so far. I've played for about 12 
 hours and everything else is perfectly fine -- INCLUDING THE GRAPHICS. Okay, so they're not absolutely 
 photorealistic, but a true roleplaying game shouldn't have to rely on balls-out graphics to carry 
 it. It's about gameplay, stupid! With all due respect, those of you knocking the game because of 
 graphics seriously need to get your priorities straight.
  
  In conclusion, I'm having a great time so far, and I'm looking forward to whatever expansions both 
 Obsidian and the community comes out with. My faith in RPGs has been restored! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LBWebGuy
Rating: 6.7
Date: Nov 4, 2006 7:52 pm PT
Review:  I've been a fan of NWN for years... played offline, online, designed modules, you name it. The technical 
 issues around this game are surprising... and dissapointing. Think Everquest II on a 386. I'm running 
 with almost 2 GIG ram and 512 MB video Ram on an AMD 64. So slow. Lordy, so slow. Outdoor areas 
 are almost unplayable. Indoors better. This game feels like a beta which really sux because there's 
 so much potential with the content. If you're a fan of NWN, I'd recommend holding off for a couple 
 months until they work out the kinks. Even with the first patch, this drags. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VALI4X
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 4, 2006 5:56 pm PT
Review:  i lick this kind of games because you have all the time in the world to play it. and this neverwinter 
 nights 2 is a game that mack you love it. The only thing that is a lit bit difficulty is th camera 
 (i had saw the other replays to) bout after a couple of hours spent i get use of it .
  
  the most angry problem is th AI. I lost my mind when one of my man in the middle of the battle 
 they were , let say , lost in space. And tat is a problem tat could get a fix in the firs pack 
 that i hope it come out sun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rigelarus
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 4, 2006 2:43 pm PT
Review:  This game rocks. It brings a great story and amazing graphics to the gamer. It's hard to best the 
 original Neverwinter Nights but as you will see Obsidian has done it. GREAT gameplay and replayablility. 
 Well done Obsidian. They have placed plenty of detail in everything from the reflection of water 
 to the abient lighting of torches. Trees move with the wind and are so lifelike it's unreal. The 
 toolset has had a complete workup and is far more advanced than the original. I can't wait to finish 
 my MOD and release to the public. MODers of the world feast your eyes on this free toolset. Thank 
 you Obsidian. You have again outdone yourselves. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmso12
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 10, 2006 6:33 pm PT
Review:  In reading the other reviews, it kind of feels like reading reviews for Rush albums - no (true) 
 lover of the series will give it less than a glowing review, while everyone else is trashing it 
 because it doesn't make the status quo. I fall into the hard-core fan category - I took Friday 
 off to get into the game when it arrived. Unfortunately, I read the reviews before playing the 
 game, which biased my inital opinion. Yes, the camera took a bit of getting used to, but when I 
 upgraded my video card to a GeForce 7800 gs (to prepare for all the RPG I'll be doing over the 
 holidays - STILL haven't played FEAR yet) the game ran flawlessly and smoothly. After letting myself 
 get used to the look and feel, and focusing on the game itself, I found that this is every bit 
 the game that I was expecting, and that I have been waiting for.
  
  Your actions affect how the game plays, combat is satisfying and each area can be finished in a 
 nice gaming session, making this a nice diversion for the rainy season and the holidays. It reminds 
 me of the Baldur's Gate series, and that's a high compliment. There are a lot of haters that are 
 bagging on the graphics, or lack of graphics, but really I think that many or most of us RPG lovers 
 are after the good gameplay, and can look past dated graphics. My advice is to stop whining about 
 the camera, go ahead and update your card for Gothic 3 (you know you will eventually) and give 
 this game a chance to outlive its bumpy release. I hope that folks will buy this game and send 
 Atari the message that WE WANT MORE GAMES LIKE THIS!
  
  Don't beleive the hype. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mazena86
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 17, 2006 4:01 am PT
Review:  As a big fan of the original Neverwinter Nights I had been waiting for this game for ages! Finally 
 it's here. And, unlike some other people, I'm extremely satisfied! I am yet to encouner any bugs 
 or problems with the UI or camera contorls. Game runs smoothly with some settings at max and some 
 at medium (will post my specs below) .
  
  First of all, don't, under any circumstanses, compare this game to Wow or Oblivion. You should 
 realize that those are totally different kinds of games. Plus those two sucked imo. Comparing to 
 graphics, UI or gameplay to them is pointless.
  
  My specs:
  AMD Athlon 64 3000+
  1Gb RAM
  GeForce 6800 GS
  
  Now, for the real review!
  
  I spent like over 30mins to 
 create my character. To get it just right. I agree that the character customization is lacking 
 some head options and there should be all colors available. Though then it might take hours for 
 me to get the game started. Plus, I mis the old NWN1 portaits. The new portrait system isn't that 
 bad looking. It just reminds me of wow (a BAD thing) and the angle could be better, heh.
  
  Yay, I start the game in the house of my foster father. He's mumbling something with a not very 
 quiet tone. Heh, I'll forgive that. Otherwise the spoken dialog is excellent! Full points there. 
 Also the sounds and music are good. True, some were taken from the NWN1, but.. Yeah.. More music 
 tracks would've been great. And some more character voices. Still I'm happy. Tha lack of extra 
 music and voices made me only give 9 for sound.
  
  The story is very compelling and all the side quests are worth doing. They all add up to a great 
 experience. True, the story is not that original, but then again, most of the RPG stories aren't. 
 It's pretty hard to come up with something truly original. Especially when the settings are limited 
 into Forgotten Realms universe. I'm still not even half-way finished, but I'm really enjoying it. 
 Very addictive! I have been playing many many hours straight each day.
  
  Graphics deserve 10! No matter what the others say... The landscapes are big enough, well designed 
 and full of nice little details. More complex graphics would just have resulted as too high system 
 requirements and the toolset's functionality would have suffered also. Concluding, many of the 
 complainers probably have never used the Aurora toolset for NWN2.
  
  The character designs are just great! I love the clothes, the designers have been on a creative 
 spree, I bet. Especially the warlocks and bards have cool armor. Though I like assassin and rogue 
 armor too. Talk about cool factory. (kay, the hats with feathers are also cool xD at first I hated 
 them, but those things grow on you!)
  
  Spell effects. Wow. What can I say? Amazing job. They're flashy, make them look powerful and classy. 
 Goo fun. I'm also pretty much amazed how much more you can do with the game than you could with 
 NWN1. This has so much potential in the hands of a modder community.
  
  I love the new companion system. The old henchmen system sucked. These guys actually know how to 
 do something. Though I had to switch the AI off totally (except auto-follow) because with the hardcore 
 d&amp; d rules the casters cast the nice area effect spells on the whole group while I wasn't watching. 
 Besides it's a lot more fun to control all four characters than just the one you created.
  
  The dialogue with the new companions is great! It's rare that games actually make me laugh. 
 Maybe smile, but laughing is really rare. Well, it has happened on this game! Many times. These 
 guys are just so fun to be with. I even took some characters with me even though they make my efficiensy 
 a bit worse... Two characters of the same class don't balance out that well. But we get along. 
 At least most of us, hehe.
  
  The alignment system is great too. There are lots of times when you can affect your alignment as 
 you go through the game. Depending on what you do or say. Also the diplomacy/bluff/intimidate skills 
 have a meaning this time! I remember how frustrating it was back in NWN1 when my rogue had persuation 
 for nothing. I could rarely use it (unless I wanted to take a step to the evil side by trying to 
 get more gold as a reward) . Now, it has really helped me a lot. I've gained much interesting lore 
 and avoided some combats with it.
  
  Okay.. The UI is great but.. I would really want to make the hot buttons a bit more useful. I can't 
 use dual wield and a ranged weapon efficiently because I can't assign an hotkey for dual wield. 
 So I decided to stick with dual wield. No problems so far yet. If I ever want to play with difficult 
 settings, I would want it to work though. Oh, that reminds me. People say the game is too easy/hard.. 
 Hey, folks!! There is a dificulty slider in the options.. If the game feels too easy, make it more 
 difficult. And vice versa.
  
  I haven't played the multiplayer a lot. Finding a stable server that I can actually connect was 
 a bit hard.. Once I succeeded, I was glad that I did. What's more fun than killing a horde of lizardmen 
 with a shortsword and a dagger? Killing a horde of lizardmen side by side with your friends of 
 course! I was so sad when the host had to go to bed after a few hours, heh.
  
  From what I've seen, this game seems just amazing! It has everything that a classic RPG needs.. 
 And more! The toolset will bring you joy for years to come! Wether it is by making your own modules 
 or playing the adventures made by others. I have no reasons not to recommend this to everyone who 
 likes quality RPGs that are more than just mindless hack&amp; slash grinding!
  
  You won't be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_Photon
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 4, 2006 2:15 pm PT
Review:  the game is awesome in every facet. A worthy predecessor to the first one. The gameplay is fun 
 and easy to learn, the overall feel of the game allows you to feel like your there and the combat 
 is fun and entertaining. Many complain about the graphics and while there not the best of graphics, 
 they are enjoyable and pleasing to the eye. I myself would rather have a great game and decent 
 graphics, then great graphics and a decent game. And we have a great game and decent graphics. 
 I've had no bugs since installing and playing, only a couple of frustrations with the camera and 
 combat. But, in time and gameplay, I've worked them out. This game will be around along time, especially 
 when all the mods start coming in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: twugofski
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 22, 2006 11:41 am PT
Review:  This is an edit of my previous review. After getting the last patch, the game is finally playable 
 on my XPS desktop and it actually works fairly well on my E1505 laptop, too. With the latest patch, 
 its clear to me what was release several months ago was not ready for prime time but was prematurely 
 put into the market to stock the shelves for Christmas.
  
  The game does grow on you as you play. By Chapter 2, the storyline blossoms and feels more epic 
 in scope. The NPCs are much more interesting than in NWN1 and I actually find swapping them out 
 depending on which task I am undertaking. Even the side quests seem more than delivery tasks or 
 kill tasks.
  
  Camera angles are still an issue. I still find it frustrating to exit a building and find myself 
 staring into a wall and having to move the mouse around to figure out where my characters are.
 
  
  My original review follows.
  -----8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigjp24
Rating: 6.6
Date: Nov 4, 2006 12:48 pm PT
Review:  Four years after the phenomenon NWN its sequel NWN2 finally arrives. Graphically, its almost identical, 
 which is a real disappointment in my eyes. After four years I would expect a significant upgrade. 
 This is still like Baldur's Gate, graphically, and that's some 10 year old game.
  
  The starting story is lame, too, which also reminds me of Bladur's Gate. You're an orphaned child 
 charged with saving your village from some hidden evil. Wow. Never seen that one before. Control. 
 Wow, what a horrible design for controls. The camera angle is backwards. If you want to look right, 
 you must turn the camera left and vice versa. Don't even try to walk with WASD, or you will get 
 dizzy and fall out of your chair. AI. Yea, another huge step backwards. Game is far too easy, and 
 I usually like my games easy. I was level 5 within an hour, and I hadn't even come close to a challenging 
 battle yet. Wanna be evil? It looks like you're gonna be in short company. I haven't met an evil 
 natured companion yet.
  
  Ok, now for some good. I like the ability to change characters and equip them. The story, although 
 very unorginal, is at least existant. Some classes have very unique touches. For instance, the 
 companion that rangers can summon at level 4. All in all, its decent game as far as RPG goes. This 
 doesn't hold a candle to past AD&amp; D games, though. NWN and the old Pools of Radiance series, 
 still blow this mediocre game out of the water. In an age where games are coming out half finished 
 I guess its better than its recent competition. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gaz-420
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 4, 2006 12:30 pm PT
Review:  Going in, you knew that this game was going to take a fast computer. I must say, I have not had 
 1 problem with over 20 hours of play already. Maybe it is time for some of you guys to upgrade 
 your PC!! You can't really dis the game because your PC is inadequate. The begginning patch is 
 a little annoying. Wish I could just download it from somewhere.
  
  Other than that this game rocks. Just like the first one, but better. More classes, sub-classes, 
 better graphics, great music score.
  
  I give NWN2 a 10 to off-set some of the weenies that are complaining about having a crappy system!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: prophetofnixon
Rating: 3.2
Date: Nov 4, 2006 9:47 am PT
Review:  Well, this one made me mad. Don't buy it. If you do:
  
  Installation: 6 GB installation... can't really fault it for that, but then it needs an 82 MB patch 
 to bring it up to Final status (as if the DVD wasn't the intended final build) , and the patch needs 
 5 GB free space to install, since it modifies almost every game file. If you don't have the space, 
 the patch crashes (and doesn't tell you why) , and refers you to a critical rebuild file that doesn't 
 exist. DVD must be inserted to play as well. Game startup is fairly slow.
  
  Character creation: Very good, sort of got my hopes up again. A few new races, lots of subraces, 
 and more feats. The game: My first impression was practically awe. The new graphics engine displays 
 a level of detail which exceeds the pre-rendered scenes used in the old infinity-engine games (Baldur's 
 Gate 2, Planescape, Icewind Dale, etc) . The texture work, lighting, and everything else are gorgeous. 
 Player models aren't the best I've ever seen, but they're still quite good. Dialog options have 
 been very good, allowing a lot of skill based choices (persuade, bluff, etc) . And, I really like 
 that all party members are controllable this time.
  
  Trouble is, the first impression only lasted until I tried to play the game for about an hour. 
 I played up to the point of leaving the first town on the road to Neverwinter, but I couldn't take 
 any more at that point. Some of the problems:
  
  Graphics: It looks gorgeous, but the graphics engine must be terribly coded, because it slows to 
 a crawl outside of small indoor environs. Screen resolution doesn't really seem to affect its running 
 speed much... turning off terrain normal maps helps, as does turning off all mip mapping (which 
 isn't too noticeable since the textures are very highres) . I was able to cope with those settings 
 for a bit, but after leaving town the frame rate got too intolerable to play. Camera: Similar to 
 the camera from Neverwinter, but has 2 irritiating flaws. First, it never rotates fast, not even 
 on top speed. Second, the mouse wheel zoom does not zoom incrementally on input, it sort of accelerates, 
 which makes it very hard to set.
  
  Interface: The awesome radial interface and Diablo-esque inventory system from Neverwinter 1 are 
 completely gone. The interface is a throwback to the old Infinity Engine games. Its hard to use, 
 the items can't be distinguished from each other unless inspected, and its just really clunky compared 
 to Neverwinter 1. Feels like 1998 again.
  
  Customization: All of the awesome customization stuff, like adjusting details of armor and weapons, 
 and dying things, is gone. The 'stock' items so far look pretty good, but its a shame they're not 
 customizable. Sound: Most sounds and music are taken from NWN 2, including player character voice 
 sets. Not that this is really bad, since they were decent sound effects and music. The bit of new 
 music I've heard so far is really bad though, and doesn't fit with the old music at all.
  
  Control: There's a lag whenever your character goes anywhere, as if it takes a half second to figure 
 out how to turn and walk. This is aggravating with mouse control, but it completely breaks the 
 WASD keyboard control, since your character will stop every few steps to lag again. Its really 
 hard to target enemies without pausing now, since the hit box for clicking a model is now the model 
 only, and doesn't have some 'margin of error' around it like in NWN 1. This lag and the difficulty 
 aiming, combined with the terrible frame rate, reduce most battles to 
 
  
  Overall, incredible graphical detail and lots of character options, but terrible graphics performance 
 and terrible control completely ruin the game, rendering it unplayable. Even if these are fixed, 
 the cluncky 1998ish interface is sure to annoy. I think I'll wait a year and try the game again, 
 maybe it will be patched more by then, and maybe I'll have gotten some newer hardware (been considering 
 a rebuild once the second generation of DX10 video cards is out) .
  
  Just a last note to anyone thinking that this is all the computer's fault... well, some of it may 
 be, but this is a decent machine, its a Pentium D 805 (clocked above 3 GHz) , 1 GB RAM, and a Radeon 
 X800 GTO (12 pixel pipeline) with 256 MB DDR3. Not the best computer ever by any means, but still 
 better than most of what's out there. Assuming that the game's problems are from weak hardware, 
 you'd need to have much better than this to get any performance from the game.
  
  If you've got NWN 1, skip this and try some user-made modules. I highly recommend Darkness Over 
 Daggerford and the 2 part Tales of Arterra (The Lost, and The Awakening, which I am playing now) . 
 They're both incredibly good modules. The Pirates of the Sword Coast premium module is pretty good 
 too, but either of the others I mentioned are better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zahnrad
Rating: 3.2
Date: Nov 4, 2006 9:43 am PT
Review:  Forget it. Waste of money. Its buggy, gameplay has an awkward flow. Its a resource pig, and there 
 is so much clutter (graphicly) that it reduces the playability. Camera auto-adjusts when your near 
 buildings and dorks up the view. Not to mention, they alienated half of their audience basing the 
 game on directX. That was always the beauty of NWN was that you felt like they cared about the 
 gamer: PC/MAC/Linux. Now it seems its another case of a company ran completely by marketing types 
 (and hyper active project managers) , pushing out buggy games with no concern for their fanbase.
 
  
  A great game ruined... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anastase
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 4, 2006 8:38 am PT
Review:  Although there are some things I wish had not been changed from the original, NWN2 is very enjoyable 
 and engaging.
  
  VERY GOOD:
  
  Graphics :: I have a computer that was high end a year ago, but the graphics still look amazing 
 to me. They are beautiful and detailed. I know some people are having trouble with them, but I 
 suspect some of those people may expect it to run the same as the original did. With the right 
 graphics card (not necessarily a brand new one) and the right settings, the graphics are fantastic. 
 They are definitely a huge improvement over the original. And they look just like the screenshots, 
 so people complaining should have known what it was going to look like before buying the game.
 
  
  Storyline :: As engaging as anything NWN1 put out, the storyline has kept me constantly interested, 
 to the point that I have problems stopping the game at all. The characters are well done, both 
 in voices and personality. The companions are a lot of fun and feel more like true companions and 
 less like the henchmen you got in the original.
  
  Companion Controls :: I am really impressed with the companion controls that are possible for henchmen. 
 I love being able to take over their bodies and direct them after Ive already set my main character 
 to do something. Having control of their leveling up is very useful. I can spread out skills amongst 
 everyone so I dont have to agonize over what I want to do with my main character. If I dont have 
 a skill for something (like armor crafting) then I can improve a companions skills, and use them 
 to actually make the item.
  
  Stability :: Crashing with NWN1 (especially when you go in and out of the game window) was something 
 Id become accustomed to because it happened so often. I have only crashed once so far in NWN2. 
 Saving seems a lot more stable as well.
  
  GOOD AND NOT SO GOOD:
  
  Character Creation Skills :: Most of the character creation process has improved from the original. 
 I like the new races, and the addition of a background can give you more unique skills. Unique 
 is always better.
  
  Character Appearance :: The appearance creation is not what I was led to believe it would be. You 
 can choose your own eye color which is great, but you cannot choose lip color. The color choices 
 are more limited than they were in the original game, hair and skin color choices leave much to 
 be desired. Many of the female faces look very *butch* too, they seem unfinished and not feminine 
 enough to me. I only found a few female face I liked, the one I liked the most was an Aasimar female 
 with a tattoo on her face. I would have rather played a human or an elf but appearance is important 
 enough to me that I changed race to look better. The ability to choose your own tattoos were not 
 included either, which I think was a definite step down. And I wish they had given more long hair 
 choices, or at least medium hair choices. Only one female hair choice was ok I thought, and I still 
 dont *love* it.
  
  THINGS THAT SHOULD NOT HAVE BEEN CHANGED:
  
  - The ability to set companion commands on a hotkey.
  
  - Being able to talk to companions 
 with a left click, instead of having to hold down the right mouse button to access their menu.
 
  
  - Not being able to tell my rogue companion to retrieve traps, not disarm them. I have to take 
 her over every time I need a trap retrieved.
  
  - The ability to look at your inventory and a companions inventory at the same time.
  
  - 
 The complete overhaul of the inventory system (everything has one box, and there are only 4 inventory 
 tabs instead of 5) .
  
  - I do not understand the carrying capacity line. It will say I am overburdened when I have 130/200. 
 Why is the 200 there if I cant carry that much?
  
  - Not being able to change the keystrokes of some things, like Quicksave and the different numbered 
 Hotbars. I like having so 10 Hotbars, but I wish I could make the 2nd and 3rd controllable with 
 the CTRL and ALT keys, or all of them with the Fkeys.
  
  - Fighting turns take WAY too long. Sometimes everyone in a battle will be sitting there waiting 
 for the timer on an attack to run out so no one is doing anything. This is not game breaking, but 
 its annoying. I hope a later update changes this.
  
  - Combat is not quite as intuitive as the original. I sometimes think I clicked on an enemy and 
 I really clicked on the ground near it. I have to pause and make sure I click the right target. 
 If I am moving then its hard to click on stationary objects like chests.
  
  - Camera controls feel a bit awkward, especially if you dont customize them to your taste in the 
 options. Ive gotten it to the point that I like them, but not quite as much as the original.
 
  
  If I'd never played NWN1, I probably wouldnt have missed the things above. Even so, the storyline, 
 characters and graphics are very enjoyable, and it is rapidly approaching NWN1 and KOTOR as one 
 of my favorite games of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darecki87
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 6, 2006 5:29 am PT
Review:  Saying NWN 2 brought back Old-School cRPG I don't mean those really old games like Akalabeth. I 
 mean games like Baldur's Gate, Planescape: Torment, Icewind dale, the goodies. First off all the 
 best aspect of this game is your party. I mean a party, not some henchmen that can't do anything 
 right. These are your companions, your buddies, they are you. You can control em directly. Cast 
 spells, use attacks, items or change their equipment. But hey you can let the character do their 
 own thing. Just have the IA on, tweak some setting in the behavior and you are ready to go. Or 
 simply use both, when needed pause and take charge. While other times simply let go. The freedom 
 in this game is a good thing. The character customization is well done. You have a bit of choices 
 to create a unique character, you can call your own. The cosmetic part is OK really, not too deep, 
 but better then older games. Where basically what class you pick is how you look. There are also 
 more races, and classes, but you have the manual for this. Now we move on to the story. The story 
 is one of the stronger parts of this game. While its starts like most games, which is really getting 
 old, but after brief time you are in for a good. Basically you start as skilled harbor man, but 
 without any real experience. I will not say anything else to not spoil it for you. The only downside 
 about the story is that it does stall at times, but nothing too bad. In this game you actually 
 want to search every room and open every chest because you never know what you will find. It might 
 a be a nice sword, or armor, or tons of items you can sell. So you will not be running trough a 
 house, or a dungeon just to get to your objective.
  
  The Good: Being able to have a party. Player interaction. Good story, lengthy but not boring. Nice 
 animation of spells and attacks. Good 'ol D&amp; D style of play.
  
  The Bad: Camera control. Movement is a bit weird. The graphics are not as good, yet it needs a 
 massive ring to run on max. Stalling.
  
  The Ugly: Not much to say here. Probably the only thing is that I can't wait for another one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oneschool
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 4, 2006 5:52 am PT
Review:  I have been a fan of RPGs for years and so have eagerly awaited the arrival of NWN 2. In general, 
 I think the other reviews well cover the good and bad features of the game -- the graphics are 
 good but not great, camera control is clumsy, the story is excellent, the RPG engine is deep -- 
 so I wanted to focus on exactly what type of game this is.
  
  NWN 2 is a fantastic game, but realize that it is not intended to be a 3-D Diablo. This is a detailed, 
 immersive role-playing game that brings D &amp; D to life on your screen. That means that it offers 
 incredible intricacies and everything that goes along with it -- incredible character creation, 
 literally thousands of possible character paths, enormous replayability. It also means that you 
 are not getting an action-oriented game. While combat and movement does play out in real-time, 
 it is all dependent upon dice rolls, and so basically the game is turn-based (just as D &amp; D 
 is) . You will find yourself pausing the game quite a bit to determine next actions.
  
  I really like this style of play, because I find I really think about my character. On the other 
 hand, it means the game by definition is nowhere near as experiential as Oblivion -- in Oblivion 
 you find your heart racing and pouding as you enter battles, whereas in NWN 2 you approach then 
 with a calculating eye. At the same time, this style of play means you get a game that is far, 
 far, far more detailed and engaging than WOW or Diablo. Think of the RPG world as a continuum -- 
 on one end you have hack &amp; slash like Diablo and Titan Quest. NWN 2 is at the OTHER end of 
 that spectrum. Overall, I think for me Oblivion is the king of the castle because it sits well 
 in the middle of the spectrum by beautifully blending both action and role-playing. Oblivion is 
 also a much more graphically impressive game. Still, I will get a lot of play from NWN 2; it appeals 
 to a different part of my brain, and I will fritter away many hours trying to figure out if I can 
 make a Bard/Ranger multiclass work!
  
  In other words, I think many of the reviews are unfairly knocking NWN 2. It does exactly what it 
 sets out to do -- put a faithful representation of D &amp; D to the screen. For folks like me who 
 grew up reading AD &amp; D manuals and modules into the wee hours, wishing we could round up enough 
 friends to play In the Dungeons of the Slave Lords, it fulfills every expectation by opening up 
 this incredibly deep universe to the solo player. If you are ready to take the plunge to D &amp; 
 D, this is great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Firefox3050
Rating: 2.7
Date: Nov 4, 2006 2:10 am PT
Review:  Ok, if you're playing NWN2 and don't understand where I am coming from, please press your keyboard 
 tilda key ~ while in game, and then type, showfps and -enter-. Hit ~ again and start playing with 
 the FPS now displayed in the upper left-hand corner... Now do you see where I'm coming from?! If 
 not, then somebody please help me out here. AMD X2 2.0 ghz, 2gb ram, raid-0, SLI 7800gt (not one 
 dandy little thing running in the background) , and I can't get a stable FPS above 20! I have no 
 problem with BF2 (Max settings) and Oblivion (Medium Settings) . I'm almost speechless. These are 
 the legendary Black Isle guys, Quality over Quantity! Using the D&amp; D logo no less. I had this 
 game running at 800X600 (yes, it's above 30 fps then) , but still couldn't run the shadows. Ok, 
 to switch gears... For those of you who do not own this game, please take notice. The problems 
 with NWN2 are fix-able, like any Beta is fix-able (more like Alpha with respect to 3-D optimization) . 
 BUT, as this game stands, its false advertising for the next month or two at best. BG2 is my favorite 
 D&amp; D game bar-none, I kind of liked NWN1, but after this opening charade of return to glory, 
 I'm about ready to give up on quality PC D&amp; D gaming. Alright, I'm out before I get any more 
 upset. I hope this insight is a helpful warning to save you time, money, and frustration. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PfcJs
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 3, 2006 9:19 pm PT
Review:  This is a deserved sequel to the original NeverWinter Nights that I thoroughly enjoyed along with 
 the SOU and HOTU expansion packs. For a former D&amp; D player, this game was one of the best D&amp; D 
 games to date until now.
  
  NeverWinter Nights 2 is an improvement over the original in that you have up to four characters 
 to control in your party (plus others NPC that join during the game) . In addition, the graphics 
 have been beefed up for the characters and terrain. (I'm playing the game with all the graphic 
 settings on high as well as maximum texture sizes. My system is an AMD 64X2 4400 with 2GB of ram 
 and an NVidia GeForce 7900 GTX.) On my system, the graphics have been very smooth.
  
  Game play is very similar to the original NeverWinter Nights except for a few interface changes 
 that I had to get used to. First of all, the ctrl, shft keys no longer work with the F1 to F12 
 hot keys. (There is a menu that lets you setup 10 groups of presets but as far as I can tell, there 
 is no quick way to switch between them other than scrolling through them with arrow keys that you 
 have to click on.) In fact the short cut keys are now the 1-0 keys plus the minus and equal keys. 
 The F1 to F4 keys let you switch between party members. In addition, you cannot have two inventories 
 displayed simultaneously as in NWN 1. You have to drag items to the character icon on screen and 
 then open up their inventory individually.
  
  I've gotten used to the mouse changing your screen view. I wish though that there was a way to 
 prevent the mouse from changing the angle of the view as I am constantly changing the view by accident.
 
  
  In terms of the official single player campaign module, I have reached just reached NeverWinter. 
 The story so far has been pretty good. The character interaction with your companions has also 
 been quite good. I can't wait to see how influence plays out during the game.
  
  I am playing with the game patched to v1.01. For me, the game has not had any issues with stability. 
 (It should be noted that I have not overclocked my system either.) My only complaint thus far is 
 that the AI is very stupid sometimes. In addition, my character seems to get stuck and unable to 
 move on some invisible object. Hopefully, the next patch will correct the AI.
  
  Overall, I am very pleased with the game and am looking forward to playing other modules once I 
 complete the official campaign a couple of times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: markrob2892
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 3, 2006 9:19 pm PT
Review:  Why are some of these people complaining? I guess if it doesn't have Oblivion like graphics it 
 isn't good enough? That's stupid. Any fan of Dungeons and Dragons 3.5 will love this game, because 
 it sticks very true to the rules of 3.5e. It's also retarded to say the graphics only a little 
 better than NWN, there is a significant difference, much more 3 dimensional. I love the fact that 
 virtually every race is included in NWN2 that can be used in Forgotten Realms. (You can't be a 
 Gensai, but you can be Aasimar or Tiefling.)
  
  Yes the graphics aren't state of the art, but it's more about gameplay, and the toolset to create 
 your own modules. The gameplay is great, you can set the level of difficulty to whatever you like 
 (easy to really hard.) So I am very happy with it, and can't wait to play modules that people make, 
 and play with the toolset. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2o35
Rating: 7.2
Date: Feb 19, 2007 4:35 pm PT
Review:  word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word 
 word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word 
 word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word 
 word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word 
 word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word 
 word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deejay_
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 3, 2006 7:48 pm PT
Review:  I'm an owner of the original nwn and all 3 expansion packs. Needless to say i adore the concept 
 around the whole game. Even though i had a few doubts about buying this game i finally did. When 
 i first got into the game it seemed somewhat disappointing in terms of technical and graphical 
 issues. I decided to give this game a chance and a few hours later i was so overwelmed by the content 
 of this game that i set all the settings to much lower than they were, and adjusted the camera 
 as a compromise to be able to enjoy the game. The complexity around building a character is remarkable 
 but not for everyone. The real beauty in this game is not in the graphics but the realism around 
 it. It really has a distinct feeling to it, depth and an amazing storyline that really draws you 
 in without getting you addicted unlike many rpg/mmorgs on the market. It's online community is 
 simply remarkable and i can't wait to go online and meet old friends and make new ones. I cant 
 wait to have interaction with my GM and contribute to the online community with ideas, new modules 
 and so on...
  Do you need a pleasant change? Do you want realism? DO YOU HAVE IMAGINATION? then buy this game. 
 If not, stick to the dry content out there. For me, this game is pure gold. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: caerajan
Rating: 6.1
Date: Nov 8, 2006 5:38 pm PT
Review:  I'm very disappointed. After playing Oblivion for the past several months, I expected this game 
 to be at least to that level. It's not. The gameplay is jerky. The graphics mediocre. I'm sure 
 as I get used to the game, it will be better, but don't look for awe and wonder here. It seemed 
 to be a lot of same old, same old. I found opening the original game much more pleasant than this. 
 So far, I can't say that anything about the game is really well done. It's cumbersome. If you're 
 on a tight budget, you might want to wait until the price of this game comes down, markedly.
  
  Update: now in Chapter 2. It's still boring, and slow. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fatmojo0069
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 3, 2006 3:36 pm PT
Review:  Neverwinter Nights 2 is a great game. The depth of the character creation and unique tool set make 
 the game so much fun. The visuals look great. The vast environments make me feel like i'm on a 
 vacation in the Dungeons and Dragons realm, so great that I havent gone out to hang out with my 
 friends since the game was released. The atmospheric effects and props layed about are sweet! I 
 highly suggest to go out and buy the game! Once you start the game, I dont think you can leave 
 the Neverwinter Nights universe. Who wants to join me and experience an epic muliplayer adventure? 
 :) -Otaking 
::::::

::::::
UserName: txmaddog
Rating: 2.5
Date: Nov 3, 2006 3:16 pm PT
Review:  Game was released too soon, they seem to have released a late Beta and not a retail product.
  
  I get horrible (read unplayable) FPS lag on my system (3.0Ghz, 2gig mem, Nvidia 7800gt) . Several 
 important features present in NWN 1 are missing, ability to hot key duel-wielding, easy way to 
 command your companions, not ALT or CTRL hot bars, etc.
  
  Game does show some promise but should have been delayed at least 2-3 months and should hae been 
 play-tested more.
  
  Graphics are only slight up grade to NWN 1. Sound is very good but they are using the same vocies 
 they used in NWN 1 with only a couple new ones. The new race options are nice as are the new prestiage 
 classes but you'd get the same from a decently done user mod.
  
  Character sometimes wound move or gets stuck on terrain, companions seem to charge things at random. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cooper_0
Rating: 6.7
Date: Nov 3, 2006 2:45 pm PT
Review:  I purchased the game two days ago. Right out of the box, there's problems. It installs fine, but 
 I have to wait about five minutes for the game to just start. Once I start playing, it's fun and 
 all, until it crashes or freezes. Which is very often, and I find that my last save usually isn't 
 there or the game freezes when I try to load it, forcing me to start back at an earlier one, sometimes 
 putting me hours behind. The patch did nothing to fix these problems, in fact, it simply made it 
 worse. More frequent crashes. And the AI is questionable. Enough with the bad. When I can get it 
 to work, the game is a blast, and immersive. The graphics are stuck in the past, but that's not 
 really what the game is about. The story line is about on-par with that of the previous NwN games. 
 Which is, pretty good. The whole party system / companion intercations are very similar to those 
 of the Knights of the Old Republic games. Which isn't necessarily a bad thing, unless you didn't 
 like them. And it's an improvement over those of NwN1. In closing, when you can get the game to 
 work, it's great. If you can't, it's ery frustrating. Hopefuly a new patch will be released that 
 addresses these problems, since I've looked, and I'm not the only one with them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jsboyd
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 3, 2006 1:50 pm PT
Review:  My review of the Game. As a disclaimer I am only about level 7 or so and Im not sure how far I 
 am actually into the game but here are a few impressions:
  
   The graphics are outstanding I am playing on a laptop and I dont have any problems with the 
 game. Granted it is a gaming laptop but the graphics are crisp/realistic and very playable. I have 
 few if any FPS issues. Its got a great ambience and look feel. The sounds and voiceovers are also 
 fantastic. Tons of work was done here and really added to the immersion. Very well done.
   The controls. Okay so yeah I had some real problems with the way the initial configuration had 
 this set up. Plus I have a laptop with a touchpad which made it even more murderous. I mean I 
 spent 50% of my time just trying to navigate. I have played with the config however and believe 
 I have it set up pretty nicely (like the old NWN) . Whoever set the initial camera configuration 
 for new users needs to be slapped. Im surprised this got out of beta test the way it was.
   I love all the races and class options. Really pretty amazing and frankly the implementation 
 here is my favorite part. I am having fun just looking at all the combinations and strategies for 
 making a character. Very neat and a good basis for whatever comes next. The feats are interesting 
 and outstanding and there are a ton of combinations I think would be interesting
   Replayability is low because this is a linear game but hey thats what we all signed up for. 
 For example, Id like to try this again with a different class, like a monk or something. Well 
 see as Ill probably give a Monk or Druid a try.
   My only beef on character selection is there should be a more choices for physical features. 
 Some variation in heights, facial tattoos, birthmarks whatever. I mean the designers dont have 
 to worry about multiplayer lag FPS so whats stopping you. More voices too.
   Limited Edition people get special items and feats. I guess I am okay with that but I never like 
 buying Limited editions because I like to get games like this on the first day they are available. 
 You risk getting a game a few days late if a supplier has some glitch. So let people upgrade if 
 they want to unlock the full feature sof the game.
   The storyline and the feel ofhey I should just finish up this one last adventure is definitely 
 still there for me. Pulls me in to try and advance my character/class. Thats really t he most 
 important element. Do I want to play and keep playing like I did in NWN 1. The storyline and flow 
 are really compelling and it really fits the bill as ordered.
   I dont really get the whole multiplayer aspects of the game. I know its a huge part of NWN 
 but Im just not sure how this all works effectively. Itd be great if people could make campaigns 
 just as fun and interesting as the one includes. We will see I guess.
   Oh and to all the Wowsters. Hey this is not WOW! I play Wow too and its great but this is a 
 whole different critter. Yes the good ideas that Wow has should be incorporated but most of wow 
 really doesnt translate well here. So my overall score out of 10 is probably and 8.9 so far. If 
 you liked the original NWN I cant see why you wouldnt love this. And even if your experience 
 is just confined to Wow you should give this a try to see something different. I reserve the right 
 to change it based on a few more days of play but for now 8.9 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tshorizon
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 3, 2006 1:08 pm PT
Review:  Neverwinter Nights 2 has great graphics, (I disagree with gamespots opinion) , great story, interesting 
 character development of companions, full control of companions, and basically an improvement in 
 every way compared to the original. Gamespots review was right however, there are minor camera 
 problems and the system requirments are crazy. I have a computer that runs everything on the highest 
 setting, but I bought a new comp a month ago. For a lot of people to see how beautiful this game 
 is you need to run this game on the highest settings. Due to the high graphical requirments few 
 are going to be able to do this. Pretty much everything about the game it's self is amazing, but 
 with high requirments. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sodtiwaz
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 16, 2007 5:16 am PT
Review:  I was really excited when I saw NWN2 was actually going to be produced about a year ago and even 
 pre-ordered the special edition several months ago. After numerous delays (which I accepted as 
 inevitable and was use to from blizzard games anyway) I ran to the store on halloween only to discover 
 that it wasnt out... yeah ok the ship date is oct. 31, but so was FF XII and it was out... so the 
 next day I head back and pick up my special edition game WOOT. I get home and install only to discover 
 that they already had a patch out, well 20 minutes later or so I finally get to delve into the 
 world i'd be so eagerly anticipating. The first thing i notice? the graphics while not bad they're 
 also not as good as they should be, the games system requirements are similar to oblivion yet the 
 graphics aren't anywhere close to as good. add in the fact that it lags even on a good machine 
 and its pretty annoying. then i get to the voice selection for my character and am again given 
 a huge middle finger by the game...3/4 of the voices are the exact same as those found in NWN1 
 and the ones they actually added? well they almost sound mixed and matched (this is also noticable 
 durring various cutscenes where the actors voice level goes quite to loud sparatically) . but hey 
 at least i get to play my tiefling assassin that i've been playing on tabletop right? sure but 
 they didnt add in flaws which really would have been nice. they did have a few traits but they 
 called them backgrounds (same thing just different names for some reason) ok ok so i finally finish 
 up my character and start the game. i wonder around town doing the various quests and almost immediately 
 notice that the camera is a tedious chore to constantly monitor... not to mention if i click to 
 attack something half the time i simply walk over towards it. the radial menu is gone basicly and 
 while theres still a popdown chart that does similar things it doesnt do everything (i think there 
 are like 8 emotes instead of 20+ like in nwn1, i cant double click a creatures portrait to attack 
 it... and combat seems slower than it should be (i lowered the settings down from what it detected 
 and removed basicly everything that said removing this may increase performance on some machines 
 and that did seem to help quite a bit, but honestly i have a 3500+ processor and a 7900gtx video 
 card... you'd think it would run smooth) . and dont even ask about load times... they're horrendous.
 
  
  Perhaps all these things will become less of an issue as i play the game but coming from nwn to 
 the newer better version this game still seems like its in beta test. I will however say that the 
 graphics from nwn to nwn2 are night and day but i'm not sure that they're worth the serious load 
 times involved between each area. One of the very first areas you go to has 23 areas loaded into 
 it and that takes about a minute to fully load and my computer is well above the recommended level. 
 I'm hoping future patches will update things to make the game as good as it really should be. I'm 
 not a diehard oblivion guy but the graphics in that game were fantastic and the combat didn't seem 
 to lag even when i had multiple opponents.
  
  Now that i've vented a bit of my frustrations here are some of the things i liked about it so far. 
 The story is fairly good and the conversation options are fantastic... the fact that i can choose 
 to help someone or simply slit their throat is wonderful the fact that i can bluff/diplomacy etc 
 on nearly every NPC is also a nice change from the persistent worlds i'm use to in NWN. The graphics 
 are 100 times better than those found in NWN, The sounds while almost identical in every case to 
 the original still work.
  
  Oh and you're thinking about playing that fun character you've been thinking up.... dont bother 
 unless you change the difficulty. once you get past the fort you have 2 options one is a bandit 
 camp the other a graveyard my tiefling couldnt survive either of them on the standard difficulty 
 setting even with the help of 2 npc's i picked up. Stick to powergamer builds and you'll do fine 
 but anything else and you'll need to adjust the slider a bit.
  
  now don't get me wrong this game is fantastic and i definately wont be taking it back for a refund, 
 i'm enjoying it quite a bit... i just wish that after months and months of delays they would have 
 worked out the kinks so it would run more smoothly especially on a higher end machine. one thing 
 to be said is if you're a mod builder this is an amazing game for it. the graphics while not as 
 good as other games out there at the moment are still fantastic and the fact that you as a builder 
 can use those amazing graphics almost blows ones mind. I'd imagine in the next several months the 
 developers and the community will fix this game up right and have it running like a dream. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: world69star69
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 3, 2006 12:31 pm PT
Review:  I played NWN 1 when it came out in 2002. It was the first 3D real D&amp; D game based on the then 
 new 3rd edition rules (I'm sorry but those console dark Alliance games aren't real D&amp; D they 
 are crappy dungeon siege click fest set in forgotten realms.) The game was good the Tool-set easy 
 to use. But it didn't feel like D&amp; D! A year latter after playing KOTOR it pronounced even more 
 what was missing. It was the party based gameplay! Why didn't They make it like that I thought, 
 and so I never stayed with the first game. SO when I heard about NWN2 and that it was going to 
 be made party based, by Obsidian, who just happened to be the makers of Torment and Icewind Dale, 
 and Fallout 2. I was hyped for this game to come out. I even took off work to get my preordered 
 copy. (only other games I did that for were for Oblivion, and Baldur's Gate 2) Let me tell you this 
 game is exactly what I wanted the first to be like! It has everything right in my view. Obsidian 
 did a fantastic job with creating believable soulful NPC's which didn't surprise me, as there track 
 record on that is the best in the business! Each NPC has backstory and are affected by your alignment 
 and decisions. The world is believable and they did away with that awful loot system in NWN1 where 
 every crate was openable and had gold or something in it. Come on! Your in the shady slums and 
 beggars and whores line the streets yet every crate and barrel has gold or stuff you could sell, 
 pathetic! Bioware seems to do that a lot. I am glad Obsidian fixed it to where now, there is believable 
 places for treasure, like a locked dresser or desk. -----------------------------
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  The graphics in this game are phenomenal especially when compared to the first NWN. I am sick 
 of hearing bad reviews from the graphic whores saying : The graphics look HORRID! Yes the game 
 is still interesting, but for me, bad graphics means total disappointment a direct quote from someone 
 else's review. How are the graphics horrid? How did super realistic graphics become more important 
 then gameplay, story, and replayability. It's no wonder there is so many sucky games coming out 
 that have no variety in gameplay, if all people care about is the graphics. Why are you people 
 comparing this game to Oblivion. If they made it look like that then, it would require much higher 
 system specs, as you people don't realize that the whole D&amp; D rules are being run for every 
 character and the environment. That is a lot more computation rules then TES has to deal with. 
 Also it would limit the time it takes to make a module yourself. Part of the charm in this game 
 is that you can build your own games. It is now just like unlimited adventures was for the goldbox 
 series back in the early 90's, except we get multiplayer and presistant worlds now. (did you know 
 there was an online goldbox multiplayer game called NWN? back in 1992) This game is definitely 
 not for WOW kiddies, console players, or anyone who would rather go in to a game killing everyone. 
 That is not what an RPG is about! You need to think about what your character would do and be able 
 to handle the consiquences if you do something stupid. If thats not what you want go play Battlfieild 
 2 or one of the hundreds of mindless console games. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 The game is an incredible work of art. The environments are all now realistically rendered and 
 there is handcrafted details everywhere. The character development options are the best I've ever 
 seen in a CRpg game. I was thrilled to see all them prestige classes and sub races, including my 
 favorite planetouched! (Big Torment fan here!) The camera can be a little flaky at times, that 
 is where the 9 comes in for graphics, not for there looks as they are great! All in all this game 
 is a wonder to behold, and play. It has left me totally addicted which any great game should do. 
 I highly reccomend this game to any D and D fan or any CRPG lover who has a brain to play a game 
 like this, WOWKIDDIES , Console only players, and teenagers whose only concern is blowing things 
 up or super hyped up graphics need not apply! We don't need you. Another thing is that this game 
 is going to last you for years, the toolset is so robust and powerful , and plugins are being mad 
 e all the time, that you will always be able to download a new module to play, play multiplayer 
 with or without a live DM, or build your own game for others to enjoy. The choice is yours! Adventure, 
 build, share, its your game to make with as you want! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shervinv
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 10, 2007 5:02 pm PT
Review:  I've been a huge fan of neverwinter games and I'm an old school D&amp; D guy. This is a great great 
 game. Originally I expected much more from the graphics mostly because much of the pre-release 
 shots were a bit misleading. But I got over that. I have a short attention span so most games start 
 well for me and I get bored and stop playing them after a while. This game I'm playing through 
 the SECOND time around, and I may even play it a third at some point! The main positives in this 
 game are that it has a great story so that your actions actually have a purpose and it makes sense. 
 The development team obviously put lots of effort into that. The player characters are different 
 enough that it is highly replayable. The cut-scenes are engaging and very well done. The gameplay 
 itself is good, though it can be improved. Some of the player mods have improved it but the game 
 itself is a bit tedious for access to the multitude of abilities and items characters can use and 
 I'm tired of individually giving orders to every party member every time I want to stand their 
 ground . But really these are relatively minor gripes. The game is extremely linear, you pretty 
 much have to complete given tasks with some side quests of relative unimportance in each act . 
 Each act gives you access to several spots to visit, but really there's little to do in most other 
 than where you need to go. The maps temselves are also linear. There's a road (albeit a curvy one) 
 in each map and you pretty much have to walk from point A to B. The previous neverwinter games 
 had a fog of war and you could have searched the entire map but this one isn't like that. The dungeon 
 maps are not overly elaborate either. The lnear gameplay is actually welcome after months of playing 
 Oblivion and finally getting tired of the hugeness of it. Finally a word of caution. I'm guessing 
 anyone whose played Neverwinter games has already got this. If you're reading this you may not 
 be very familiar with Neverwinter or with D&amp; D. If you're not familiar with D&amp; D, the learning 
 curve is big.... you really need to know something about D&amp; D characters to get the best out 
 of this game. Even for us it can get complicated, but luckily there's lots of player character 
 builds available on the net if you don't want to figure it out for yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: megawavez
Rating: 7.9
Date: Nov 4, 2006 8:45 am PT
Review:  I think of this as Baldurs Gate II +. They've kept a lot of the same gameplay elements frm the 
 past (if it's not broke, then why fix it) , but it has some flaws:
  The NW2 Engine
  * I think the grpahics actually look quite good, but it's an incredible resource hog. I have a 
 pretty good rig, but this thing just grinds to a halt on my system.
  * Top down camera works, but it does have problems with getting blocked by buildings. Entering 
 interior areas will leave you blind at first.
  * Inventory is kind of weak - how about a list that can be sorted?
  * I'm having problems with 
 my hendmen attacking me and each other for no apparent reason.
  * Fighting is tried and true NW2 fighting - if you liked NW1, you'll like this and visa versa
 
  * I like the death system - if you die in combat but one party member survives, then you all revive 
 - saves having to do a reload.
  * They reused the sounds &amp; music from NW1 - pretty cheap IMO
  * The new music is well done.
 
  * I enjoy controlling each henchman.
  
  The SP Game
  * VERY linear. Large maps with small paths. (most of the maps are beautiful though) .
  * GOOD 
 character acting and some fun henchmen.
  * The story is a bit drab, but much better than NW1
  * Some good writing with a lot of grey area 
 decisions. It's not just a good/evil game which makes it more interesting.
  
  In summary - good game that will probably get much better with time. If it's like NW1, the future 
 patches and the mod communitry will really make this thing shine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Oni
Rating: 7.3
Date: Nov 4, 2006 4:38 am PT
Review:  I've been waiting for this game ever since it was announced. I pre-ordered the Limited Edition 
 and when it came out rushed home and installed it.
  
  After the install (which took for ever to install because of the patch) , I started it up. 30 min 
 in I'm scratching my head. What's happend? The FAQ said that we would be able to customize our 
 character to a great detail? You'd expect an advanced D&amp; D game like this to provide unlimited 
 options for shape, size, color, and features. No? ... k, moving on then.
  
  5 hours in I started asking myself Why is everything so obvious? Might as well put a big neon arrow 
 pointing you in the right direction. Every town is as bereft of life as the last. Where are all 
 the fun NPCs like the old woman selling mysterious potions, trash talking adventurers at the inn, 
 random weirdos trying to sell me cursed weapons or the over confident hobgoblin with a huge chip 
 on his shoulder? Not here, just your painfully obvious quest givers. Everything is static and dull. 
 I guess that's what happens when there are no day/night cycles and the citizens are out and about 
 24 hours a day.
  
  The story is great. I'm really enjoying it and the henchmen are well done as well, but ... It's 
 not feeding my need for exploration what so ever. Where are the big expansive worlds to get lost 
 in? Hmm? The game play and immersion have been exchanged for bad game mechanics with a buggy linear 
 campaign. Yes, that's right .. the game is oblivious to user freedom. Character movement is horrid. 
 Moving around is sometimes awkward and just plain weird to the point it becomes distracting. Bugs? 
 Let's just say Atari must have needed some quick cash and said To heck with beta testing .
  
  BTW, the horsepower this game requires is insane, the graphics are sub-par at best. Alot of 
 people say Graphics don't matter ... maybe, but they do in -fact help a mediocre game like this 
 become more tolerable. The characters are quite UGLY, c'mon, us female gamers want PRETTY :)
  
  Which brings me to the Games interface. ARGH!! As a designer myself, I know that if my team 
 were to create such a counter productive UI, we'd be fired immediately.
  
  All and all, I'm disappointed. NWN2 is nowhere near my expectations and does not merit all the 
 hype it has received. Is it a fun game? Sure, it can be. Should I buy it? Yes, but wait till they've 
 released about 3-4 patches for it.
  
  If you are not a big time Role Player, then I say take a PASS, on this. That's how I see it, happy 
 gaming. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RoterHund
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 3, 2006 5:47 am PT
Review:  Well, since I saw so many reviewers who don't know what they are talking about, I decided to write 
 my own one.
  As many anticipated the game does looks like NwN1 + BG party style. You get to play with 3 more 
 npc's and you can control them completely: their level up, their inventory, the way they go inside 
 the combat, the way they cast spells. It's all there in the behvaiour tab in their character sheet.
 
  Many rules changed, and some were even surpirsing for a pvp'er like me. There is much more variety 
 as to what kind of a character you can be as a melee fighter, as an archer or as a caster etc. 
 You can combine your character of 4 classes and prestige classes which adds even more variety. 
 Though subraces that have experience penalties doesn't really prove worthy of it...
  The appearnce of characters is lacking. There is only a small pool of faces and hair styles to 
 chose from for each race and subrace.
  Overall, I played the campaign a bit, and as usual I don't really have patience for all the side 
 quests and stuff, so I kind of pushed it for later. I was more focused on creating a module. Now 
 to those who don't understand why they can't join servers:
  1. The module creator has to distribute a .pwc file called client pack file that contains all the 
 things neccessery to run his module. The client has to put this file in the PWC folder (in the 
 nwn2 folder in my documents) in order to play this module on the net.
  2. Some people have not yet configured firewalls for their game.
  3 The lot of modules are password 
 protected because they are still under construction.
  Now since I already finished my module and ran it with my local friends and we played 5 ppl all 
 together fighting each other I can only point out minor flaws in the game like player list button 
 doesnt working properly, and well... that's all of them :P
  The fighting in the net is great, two weapon wielding animations and two handed weapons are awesome, 
 especially when u hit :D: D: D I find it sad that many spells that were supposed to lay some effect 
 on your character visually does not rly do that. So visual effects of spell being cast are good 
 and sometimes are awesome but there is no visual effect of a spell that has effects on you like 
 bless or aid are seemless... Red dragon disciple lost his wings :' (
  Dm client is reinforced, it's much easier to use it's tools now. As to the toolset, hmm, well there 
 are some stuff I don't like, some I do. I guess that when you say they made it easier they actually 
 made it more power userish. You can see all the properties there but some you just have to know 
 what they do. I kind of passed the reabilitation stage creating my first module and well it took 
 me 2 days. Now I can make one like this in a hour or so.
  I see a lot of space for improvement and bug fixing... I see patches coming out, I see briht future, 
 so i put 9.1 which is great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: teemu
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 3, 2006 12:21 am PT
Review:  It was with tremendous joy that I installed NWN2 and I had to work hard to keep my expectations 
 on a reasonable level.
  Once I got in and got to create my character I was already immersed and my biggest issue was what 
 race and profession to play (Gold-elf, wizard was my choice in the end and just as a remark I usually 
 play human warrior/paladin) . The chartacter building was easy and fun, not too much but still enough. 
 Some may though say it is too simple.
  The same way as in the first NWN you get in the game quickly by the tutorial quest, which goes 
 through the needed steps for you to get to know the basics. As in NWN1 the tutorial is followed 
 by events that force you to take action and take part in the plot, however one does get the feeling 
 that there are other options, because of the new chat system that gives you a some different choices. 
 It's said that the chat options are depended on your skills and stats, but also your alignment. 
 I haven't really tried out different alignments or characters with other skills / stats, so I really 
 don't know how well this works.
  The gameplay itself has some issues though. It takes awhile to get into it and the camera controls, 
 but eventually it becomes routine. The graphics as well isn't the best on the market and the recommended 
 specs are rather high if you ask me, but it really doesn't ruin the game for me at least. The other 
 content makes up for the flaws and a RPG isn't all about the graphics if you ask me.
  The best thing about this game as well as it's prequels is the toolset without doubt! The possabilities 
 seems endless and makes this game by far the most valuable on the market, worth the money in other 
 words!
  
  I would recommend this game to everyone who love RPG: s or rather that it's a must! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Adcap6
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 2, 2006 11:29 pm PT
Review:  Just starting out in the game.... really interesting, gets ya going but the with patching issues 
 due to mismatch errors (D2D) download, which as been resolved, caused some heart ache in the beginning. 
 Right now, my biggest issue is with the camera and how its handled and maintained. Even with Neverwinter 
 Nights, it was the same issue. World of Warcraft camera works wonders, it's simple to operate and 
 is a great example of how a camera should work. Get me that and you have me hook line and sinker. 
 Dont make it a chore to play due to camera adjustments, give us the freedom and the ability to 
 play smoothly with fluid movement in the camera department.
  
  One last thing, love to avoid having to add party members, this is me, but rather play solo style 
 (esp in single player) . Its understandable in that the storyline requires it along with the ruleset, 
 but still I always love being the lone hero =) .
  
  Gonna continue with this adventure see where it leads, but we all know the knock out punch is in 
 the multi-player area with this game. Hope some great modules come out and folks enjoy playing 
 Neverwinter Nights 2 all over again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blacklodus
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 2, 2006 10:53 pm PT
Review:  I've played for 4 or 5 hours now and l love this game l did'nt care much for the first NWN but 
 this one is a big improvement .. l loved BG 1 and 2 and beleve this game to be on par with some 
 of the best RPG's ever made .. l cant get over how fun it is to play n the D&amp; D worlds... From 
 the very start l enjoyed the cut scene .. i am playing on a 57 inch HD TV through DVI and it looks 
 VERY VERY crisp .. l have a AMD fx 53 with a gig of ram and a 7800 GS 256 video card . the game 
 runs flawlessly and WOW lf your a RPG fan get this .. l'm still getting used to the Tool set but 
 it takes time and once l get it down this game will have SOOO much replay value...
  
  GO BUY IT !!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: comptrex
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 2, 2006 7:17 pm PT
Review:  Upcoming patches can hopefully improve camera reaction. Wtih my current system, I should have more 
 then enough to have a snappy game experience. Unfortunately, the camera can get stuck in the wrong 
 places and screen lockups at the wrong times. It still has arms sticking through trees and some 
 quests aren't really clear. The audio has improved but with each patch we will hopefully continue 
 to see improvement. Game play however past these technical issues is better than the first one. 
 More engaging interaction along with the ability to move to new sections quicker keeps the boredom 
 at bay and the player engaged.
  
  NWN veterans will find the new interface clunky in some places, especially the object selection 
 without our old radial menu. Sorely missed indeed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: illuvius32
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 2, 2006 7:07 pm PT
Review:  You can really tell what Obsidian was trying to do here. You can see where they wanted the game 
 to go, and what it was supposed to be.
  
  Neverwinter Nights 2 is a game of almosts, with a few painful nowhere closes thrown in for emphasis. 
 The story about 10 hours in seems pretty methodical and predictible by modern RPG standards. There 
 is opportunity for it to really take off at times, but it always seems to fall back into a very 
 generic mold of D&amp; D adventures.
  
  The interface is clunky to the point of detracting from the rest of the game. What is hard for 
 me to understand is why you'd go away from such a brilliant and intuitive design as the radial 
 menu. I spent a good three minutes trying to cast a spell, because I couldn't find a casting menu. 
 Even the clicking to go from place to place feels slow, and there's a noticable lag between clicking 
 and the icon popping up. Which leads me to the biggest issue with the game...
  
  The technical problems with the game make it look and feel like a beta rather than a final finished 
 retail product. The frames per second, even at minimum detail, just takes a nosedive in any sort 
 of traffic. Even a high end system will struggle to run this game at max detail. And, perhaps most 
 discouraging, increasing the detail doesn't make the game look much better.
  
  To me personally, I just don't get how a game can feel so rushed after its release was pushed back 
 more than four times. If you are going to push things back, make sure it is pristine when you release 
 it.
  
  Another reviewer had it right when they said this game might be playable with a year's worth of 
 hard patching.
  
  Currently, it is not worth your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CheeseFairy
Rating: 7.7
Date: Nov 18, 2006 11:25 am PT
Review:  I'm only a couple of hours into the single player game, but so far the story has been good. The 
 game seems to do everything that the original NWN did and a little more. The two big gripes I have 
 with the game so far have been covered by most of the other reviews, but I'll give them to you 
 anyway. Number one, the camera control can be very frustrating. I was hoping for a improvement 
 in this department since the camera was also a issue with the original, but they seem to have taken 
 a step back. Number two, the graphics seem dated to me. The game tends to look better in screen 
 shots then actual game play. I saw one review say NWN2 was on par with Oblivion, it's not. To me 
 the game is closer to Morrowind, which makes it a bigger mystery why the game runs so slowly on 
 a high end pc. In the end this is a good game that will provide many hours of game play when people 
 get command of the tool set. I was just really hoping this game would be great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Baer
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 2, 2006 4:42 pm PT
Review:  I loaded it on a break today intending to spend an hour seeing what it was about. Four hours later 
 with two clients on the phone I had to unwillingly stop.
  The graphics are good, not great but good. The AI has a few bugs and the camera control is reasonably 
 good but could be better. My frame rates are a little slow but very playable (OC P4C, BFG 7800GS, 
 Raptors in RAID 0, 2 GmbOCZ running on a 24 Samsung at 1920 X 1200 with most settings maxed)
 
  What does this game offer? It is immersive, it has some of what the old Ultima games have, and 
 you become part of the world. Well done so far. I rate it a solid 9 mostly because it is Just Plain 
 Fun!
  
  A suggestion, get the DVD Rom version and be ready to spend 20 minutes or so doing the upgrade 
 to 1.01.
  An opps, my manual has the cover bound backwards, poor quality control at the manufacturer. Was 
 the packaging done in China? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gspasuuna
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 2, 2006 11:47 am PT
Review:  Right off the bat, folks, this isn't a real-time game. It's D&amp; D; it's turn-based. Until your 
 characters reach 6th level, you'll be doing _one_ thing every six seconds of combat. You hit _once_, 
 you cast _one_ spell, you drink _one_ potion. And you can move.
  
  Your companions aren't unresponsive. They do exactly as much as they can in one combat round. If 
 your companions are rushing up and attacking, disarming traps, opening locks, whatever, alter their 
 AI behavior or turn off their AI altogether. It takes two mouse clicks to do either of these operations.
 
  
  Combat isn't a mess. You're encouraged to hit the and plan your actions one round at a time, just 
 like in D&amp; D tabletop. Mad clicking on the baddies won't help, just like random dice rolling 
 in tabletop.
  
  So if you want a real-time fantasy epic, there are any number of other games. This isn't it, and 
 it's not advertised as one. OK, now a brief list of problems:
  
  The camera has issues. The developers have already said they'll fix it.
  
  The character models 
 aren't the most varied. This is a shame and it'll take a while for the community to come up with 
 better ones. The sounds (character and spell) are often recycled from Neverwinter Nights 1. Yes 
 I was looking for updated sounds too. Other gripes are less realistic. The graphics are outdated? 
 Come on. It's _not_ an FPS. It's not EQ2. Use your imagination to fill in what's not photo-realistic. 
 Now, on to positives:
  
  There are a wealth of character creation options. My GF looked at the creation menus for 30 minutes 
 and had a great time. The campaign story is compelling and well-written. No, it's not Shakespeare. 
 But the accents aren't stilted 16th-century faux Elizabethan either.
  
  Spell effects look good. As good as any game out there. Yep, in my D&amp; D world, magic missiles 
 are purple- or black skulls- depending on the caster. But the designers created a nice vanilla 
 magic missile for the computer version.
  
  Feats and skills actually matter. Social skills affect dialogue options, too. So, in conclusion, 
 if you know what D&amp; D is- and what it isn't- you'll know whether to buy this game. If you like 
 turn-based, skill-based role-playing, this game is for you and you won't be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Piquet2
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 2, 2006 11:39 am PT
Review:  I have spent almost 15 hours with this game now, and I must say that it's a step down from its 
 predecessor. That said, NWN2 is still a very enjoyable game with loads of fun, and absolutely worth 
 your money.
  
  Gameplay: 7 - Great and captivating story, but camera controls and exceptionally bad AI prevent 
 it from scoring a top rate.
  
  Graphics: 6 - it looks dated in some areas, textures are below today's standard and there's a few 
 clipping issues here and there.
  
  Sound: 9 - close to perfection! A little of the voice acting could've been better, but nothing 
 serious. The main characters voices are perfect and the music is just right.
  
  Value: 8 - Very long single player campaign, editing tools, multiplayer - all of this will make 
 the game last a long time, providing that you can live with the technical glitches and the average 
 (if not dated) graphics.
  
  Tilt: 8 - You get a lot for your money, but there's also room for improvement.
  
  I'm definitely 
 enjoying my time with NWN2, but I can't help feeling a bit disappointed. I had expected Obsidian 
 to set a higher standard for quality than they apparantly do. Anyway, a few patches can do wonders, 
 and I'm certain that I will still play this game in a month from now, if they improve cameras and 
 AI.
  
  Score: 7.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Daeftan
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 2, 2006 10:28 am PT
Review:  Well... so it's not everything we hoped for, but I am holding out my real opinion for the next 
 3 or so months. I bought the original NWN on the first day, too. I can tell you for a fact that 
 all of the things that made the game so great took quite a bit of time to come around. Unfortunately, 
 many of the same complaints about NWN2 are here again... like... wtf with the camera? How is it 
 that the obvious and fully tracking and mouse rotatable camera system used in a variety of other 
 mmorpgs is not the standard? You'd best have a damn good reason for deviating from that simple 
 functionality. NWN2 didn't have a damn good reason... and it will be some time before someone comes 
 out with a camera hack or patch to make that OK.
  
  I hope that user mods on the interface become possible and available. I've already started looking 
 at it.
  
  Anyway. I think the added functionality of the toolset will win the day for this game. Yes, it 
 does seem more complicated; no, it is not worse than the original NWN toolset. I gave Gameplay 
 a 9 for how well they did adhering to DnD rulesets; Value and Tilt are 10's based on the potential 
 of the toolset. I hope Obsidian starts to back the community quickly so this thing doesn't drop 
 in the toilet and make me wrong.
  
  My prediction: Hold on everyone... we gonna make this one great, too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bacardi110
Rating: 7.6
Date: Nov 2, 2006 10:18 am PT
Review:  After playing through (some of) the main campaign and multiplayer, I have just a few things to 
 say. One, this game barely reminds me of kotor at all, all these people spouting about it being 
 nwn + kotor = nwn2, i don't understand what they see. Yes it has a few elements, but I see much 
 more BG and nwn in this game, which should make for an interesting cross, and does. The storyline 
 is engaging and well written, gameplay is fun and will be very similar to nwn and BG for fans of 
 the series. But, the AI is ridiculously stupid, 50% of the time you fight, your party members stand 
 around with their thumb up their a**. Right now one of the people in my party doesn't do anything, 
 her AI officially died and I have to control her at all times or she does absolutely nothing. The 
 multiplayer? well, that should be this games bread and butter.... Sadly it is not. Hopefully some 
 day soon the issues will be patched, but as of right now.... their are on average around 25-35 
 un-passworded servers available to play on. take away 15-20 due to the fact that they are behind 
 fire walls, take away 5-10 more because you just cannot connect to them. Hopefully this problem 
 will subside slightly as more people pick up the game since its brand new, but as of right now, 
 you on average can play on 1 of 30 servers, and there are only about 30 to play on! have fun finding 
 a server!
  
  But, on a last note. Considering what the community has done with the last NWN, expect to see PLENTY 
 of mods, new content, hacks, and much much more. If they ever iron the bugs out, this should be 
 a solid game for years to come... but right now, its just a game that makes me want to pull my 
 hair out and bang my head on a table. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RealBryon
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 2, 2006 9:51 am PT
Review:  Powerhouse computer and it still runs sloppy...
  
  AMD 64 Dual Core 3800+
  Dual Nvidea 7900 GT SLI
  
  The Gamespot review nails it. Sloppy, Sloppy, Sloppy. It doesn't 
 look that great and it runs like a game programmed by children. Considering how wonderful Neverwinter 
 Nights runs, this is very surprising.
  
  The game itself IS Neverwinter Nights... no question there. The new version just has more options. 
 No doubt, If you purchase this game, you will enjoy it. I'd imagine most people will have to turn 
 the graphics WAY down to get any sort of immersion... and that's what it's all about.... escaping 
 the world for a little bit.
  
  ... and what the heck is up with the camera??? Million games out there have wonderful camera control. 
 COPY AND PASTE THEIRS!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TRVN500
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 2, 2006 9:49 am PT
Review:  in my opinion the game graphic is very good but there are many bugs in the games that makes you 
 really angry : (... hope that a bug-fixing patch will arrive soon as possible!.
  
  the sounds didn't change but there are still great, ther story and the plot are great, and the new 
 features that obsidian added to the character creation and to the HUD system, the bad thing the 
 obsidian ruined the game with changed functions that makes the gameplay more difficult then the 
 first NWN games.
  
  this is my review, and i rated the game as a good game after all, i dont think that the game had 
 been overrated :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Codeman3D
Rating: 5.3
Date: Nov 2, 2006 9:31 am PT
Review:  I am a big fan of the original Neverwinter and player mods. I really enjoyed the D&amp; D experience. 
 That is why I am sorely disappointed with this newest addition to the RPG family.
  
  The graphics are a tiny bit better than the first, but no where near the new standards for 2006. 
 It might have been nice in 2001. They aren't even as good (IMO) as Dungeon Siege which is also 
 long in the tooth.
  
  The horrific AI of your NPC party are enough to want to make you pull your own fingernails out. 
 Time after time I would have to reload my saved game because while I was trying to disable a trap 
 the rest of my party blindly run through it and die.
  
  Maybe they can fix the AI in another patch. Oh yeah, when you first install the game, you have 
 to download a 82.7 MB patch.
  
  Did I mention the stiff animation and repetitive voice acting?
  
  Wait for this clunker to 
 land in the cut out bin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poppen695
Rating: 5.8
Date: Nov 2, 2006 8:57 am PT
Review:  Well... I absolutely hate to do this. I wanted this to be the game for me for months to come... but 
 Atari/Obsidian managed to take a wondeful formula (NWN) and swirl in a healthy dose of corporate 
 ineptitude and utterly ruin it.
  
  First the good: It's got the Neverwinter Nights Eye on the box..= (
  
  The Bad: Where to start.... ok 
 .. patching. Horrible... Obsidian breaks their patch for both D2D and box buyers on day 1. Day 1 
 folks.... unbelievable. Then they promise to have it fixed in a few hours and 2 days go by with 
 no communication, no patch.. and growing problems for players who can patch.. (almost all of em) . 
 Yes you can play the unpatched version, but it's like trying to run a marathon with Wilford Brimley 
 tied to your feet... you just don't make much headway. There are many show stopping bugs too. Not 
 sure if they could be fixed by the patch because hey... we can't get the darn patch to work at all....
 
  
  Ok second Bad: No AA.... none.. nada... zip zilch. What in the world were they thinking? This is 2006... not 
 1996... it's NOT ok to release a game with no AA support hardware or application wise. No HDR support. 
 you have got to be kidding me. Oh you can turn it on.. but it's broken... it no worky... it broke... Coach 
 Jones help me!!! I have seen free downloadable games on the web that have both AA and HDR support. 
 This is just plain shamefull.
  
  Numerous interface/control problems. The interface is clunky.. slow to respond ad not very intuitive. 
 The radials are gone so now you have to fumble with shifts, rght clicks, left clicks, and wondering 
 to yourself Where in the heck is that command with no help from the tutorial at all. You also can 
 no longer stack dual-wield weapons on your interface. You might as well not dual-wield... at all.. you 
 will hate yourself if you do because you will be opening your inventory every 5 seconds to manually 
 switch between your ranged weapons and you melee. /barf
  
  I really can't go here at all. This game is very broken in it's current state. Maybe in a year 
 or so, after a ton of patches this would be work a second look... if they ever get the patches right 
 in the first place.
  
  I'm giving it a high tilt to be honest because I so wanted it to be good.. but it wasn't. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OmegaDarkKnight
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 2, 2006 6:17 am PT
Review:  I will say that I was as hyped as any original Neverwinter Nights fan about the sequel, and trust 
 me it does not dissapoint in most regards... MOST.
  
  The main flaw is the steep technical requirements, absurd processor requirements, I can personally 
 run it with minor choppiness without turning everything off but you need a monster machine if you 
 want to turn on EVERYTHING.
  
  Camera angles are, at best, below average. Sometimes it not only gets stuck in buildings in normal 
 view, but sometimes cutscenes may act oddly (I got a ground shot once... maybe it was just me) .
 
  
  It LOOKS great unless you look REALLY hard. Minor things so I think, it is up to you to decide. 
 Totally authentic as far as D&amp; D is concerned, they filled in lots of gaps that Neverwinter 
 Nights did not have, but again, some things like blind-sense do not translate well to a video game.
 
  
  They made some wonderful characters and although I am not extremely far in the game, what I SAW 
 and HEARD was pretty great, except some sounds, voices and chants were rehashed and reused from 
 what I have experienced. Overall, I think it was worth the money, to me, but maybe not to you. 
 Take this with a grain of salt and if you want more of an opinion just ask, I tried my best, heh. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: profetaxxi
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 2, 2006 5:25 am PT
Review:  I must confess, that gamespot made some points on this review, and I agree w/ them. The camera 
 mode is one of the worst points made here. But we could all get used to it. With that said and 
 done, I totally love the game, although I; ve only played for about 3 hours. I bought NWN 2 months 
 before this game came out so I could have an Idea of the game, and I can say that they did a great 
 job w/ this game. Of course there'll be a lot of patches on the way to fix some bugs, but that's 
 expected on most games anyway. Without further delay I must say that this will the best REAL PC 
 RPG that I ever played in my life, it sure brought me back to my OLD D&amp; D days, being that I 
 no longer have the time I used to. C yall around Neverwinter nights! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spyros_P
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 7, 2006 11:36 pm PT
Review:  Dear Readers,
  I was waiting for this game since the day it was 1st advertised. I had this feeling of anticipation 
 because of NeverWinter Nights, the original game. For its time, NeverWinter Nights, was a fantastic 
 game, with a very-very good U. I. D. (User Interface Design) . Not only did it use the D&amp; D rules 
 to the max but the scenario and game-play were superb! I hit the stores yesterday and got the new 
 NWN 2 game, feeling like a young boy again waiting for his Xmas gift (I am 31 by the way) . I drove 
 home as fast as possible, installed the game and waited for all the updates to download. The process 
 took me about 1 hour and I have a 1Mbit ADSL line, not bad for downloads. After that I double clicked 
 the game icon and sat back in anticipation for the new NWN 2!!!
  I enjoyed making my character, the customizing was sufficient. It could do with a bit more customizing 
 but this is nothing serious. I decided to do the tutorial in case I needed some freshening up and 
 I begun playing.
  This is what went through my mind as soon as I had played for more than one hour:
  1. Thought 
 1: The graphics are very nice, but heavy. They have good detail but still cant beat games like 
 Guild Wars. 2. Thought 2: The minimum requirements of the game dont apply. I have an ATI X1600 
 and 1GB of Ram on my home pc and still I could only play the game with minimum to medium reqs, 
 if I wanted a smooth and fast experience. Please allow me to mention Guild Wards once more. The 
 graphics of GW are compelling and require a much less powerful system to play. OBSIDIAN, why is 
 this so?
  3. Thought 3: Hey, where is the perfectly useful U. I. D. that BioWare had made in the original? 
 This is the area I am most disappointed in Game-play but most of all U. I. D.! The original NWN 
 is light-years ahead of its sequel. I thought that the U. I. D. wouldnt change Oh well, cant do 
 anything about that now
  4. Thought 4: That sounds familiar! OBSIDIAN has kept the original NWN sound effects and most of 
 the music. Ok, I like the music, but the sound f/x could have changed!
  5. Thought 5: I like the scenario!
  6. Thought 6: I like the new characters
  
  Thats it 
 really I am enjoying it very much.
  
  Have fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TH3_1NF1D3L
Rating: 4.5
Date: Nov 2, 2006 2:14 am PT
Review:  I love the original. The storyline was engaging. The graphics were... eh, not great, but not bad, 
 for its time. And, gotta love the user-made modules.
  
  But...
  
  This is NOT the original. Not the original developer, graphics engine or writers. The only things 
 that are the same are: Sounds..., Neverwinter Nights symbol, and some cameos from character in the 
 original.
  
  Gameplay: Boring. Never did it once did it fully engage my interest. I was always like, Man, I 
 wish I was playing the original... 
  
  Sounds: Nice special effects sounds and voice-overs. NOT nice in how Obsidian re-used the battle 
 sounds. NOT cool!!!
  
  Special Effects: I enjoyed the partical effects and the fire looked really nice. Nice job Obsidian.
 
  
  This game is one big resource hog. I am sitting on the recommended settings and am having to set 
 everything to LOW or OFF just so FRAPS can tell me its running at 15 FPS. It CTD when everything 
 was on HIGH or max.
  
  All in all, not worth $50. Wait until it goes down to $30. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fnord_1
Rating: 6.6
Date: Nov 2, 2006 1:43 am PT
Review:  From all the screenshots and movies that preceded release, one might expect a lot more than was 
 delivered. The graphics did get a bit of an upgrade compared to the original NWN, however, by today's 
 standards it still looks very dated. WoW looks better, and is less resource intensive than the 
 single player version of this game. I was quite surprised at how sluggish and awkward the whole 
 game was. The camera is slow and clunky, and never seems to get quite the right angle. Sadly, the 
 graphical detail that is gained by zooming in basically renders the game unplayable close up due 
 to the shoddy camera. You basically have to keep it zoomed out, and even then it's a real pain.
 
  
  The interface requires much more clicking than should exist in a game that just came out. If you 
 like to be slow and methodical and micromanage every detail, then it might not bother you. For 
 those more interested in efficiency, it becomes very annoying.
  
  It basically plays very much like the first NWN, and I was pretty disappointed by how different 
 it wasn't. The character voices are the same, with a few new ones thrown in. The basic mechanics 
 are nearly identical. With all the innovations that have come out in games since NWN came out, 
 NWN2 seems sorely lacking. One might think that it should be closer to Oblivion than the first 
 NWN. The only real positive thing is the new prestige classes and other new choices you have for 
 your character. The game is also much easier, in fact, it's almost too easy. You burn through monsters 
 like butter and just keep going, which provides little challenge. So, there's more variety, but 
 less reward. If you really liked the first NWN and don't mind the sameness, then you'll probably 
 love this game. For those expecting a different or better experience, prepare to be disappointed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: csdragon
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 8, 2006 12:32 pm PT
Review:  The single player is far better than the original game, not including the expansions. The original 
 game didn't draw me in until people started submitting modules. This is what kept me playing NWN1 
 for four years. I am hoping that NWN2 will have the same kind of calling for these people that 
 have way too much time on their hands :) . For such high graphics requirements, it doesn't seem 
 to shine quite as much as I would expect. It definitely doesn't have the eye candy that Oblivion 
 has. The gameplay is basically the same as NWN1 with some nice enhancements. The story is immersive, 
 and I want to stop playing for at least a few minutes, but for some reason, I can't. (Update) - 
 after about 25 hours, I am still playing the game and loving it. I didn't care for the 8 million 
 thugs in a certain house on a certain quest (it took like 2 hours to complete) , but everything 
 else is very cool. I love the fact that the magic items you find are not random (I hate random) . 
 I love the story. It keeps me playing until the wee hours of the morning. The biggest thing that 
 bothers me is something I found with the graphics. If I turn on reflections in the water, the game 
 slows down to a crawl outdoors. Otherwise, it moves smoothly at the highest resolution. I'm using 
 a crappy ATI x1600, so I would not expect too much, but maybe there is something wrong with the 
 reflecting water coding. If others are experiencing slowdowns, try turning off this feature. After 
 a while, you don't really care about this effect anyway. IT S ALL ABOUT THE STORY, and the replay 
 value of this game once the community starts creating modules. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fujiarmu
Rating: 4.3
Date: Nov 1, 2006 5:30 pm PT
Review:  My first thoughts when I heard about the Neverwinter Nights project were ones of intrigue and excitement. 
 Neverwinter Nights, the first, had been a very well made game, one that created an unprecedented 
 representation of the Dungeons and Dragons role-playing game. It expanded upon the concept of personal 
 gameplay in computer RPGs, allowing you to create many varieties of character and play out almost 
 any medieval-fantasy scenario you could conceive of.
  Neverwinter Nights 2 has taken these premises and bogged them down with clunky new systems, both 
 in terms of the gameplay and the toolset. Whereas Neverwinter Nights the first had an easy to use, 
 intuitive system, the sequel takes some figuring out.
  Unfortunately, the creativity of Obsidian's employees proves to be lacking, since most of the sound 
 effects and concepts seem to be taken directly from the older game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ColKurtz33
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 1, 2006 6:34 pm PT
Review:  When NWN came out, it was a pretty novel game... Now, classic RPG games have to be really good 
 to stand out . With the single-player standard set (high) by Oblivion and the other Elder Scrolls 
 titles, and MMORPGs offering living, persistent worlds, the rare single player title has to offer 
 something truly engaging...
  
  And that's where this game falls short. To Obsidian's credit, the graphics are beautiful, but after 
 about 20 minutes of playing I found myself wishing the gameplay was as refreshing as the visuals. 
 Interaction with the game world is still limited to point-and-click characters and objects and 
 simple scripting. Compare this to Oblivion, where nearly every object can be picked up, moved, 
 according to real time physics no less.
  
  The tool set is still the best part of the game, and it's always fun to see what people create. 
 But the tool set is still just as limited as the game. It used to be that D&amp; D-style games prided 
 themselves on having better character development and story than action RPGs like Oblivion. This 
 is no longer the case; as it would seem, quite the opposite. The story is good, but not stellar, 
 certainly not what I would call involved. The gameplay is far too linear, even for NWN, and there's 
 no chance of developing any kind of role for yourself outside the main quest. A Forgotten Realms 
 setting offers the potential a complex and involved fantasy world, which is something a game developer 
 would be wise to recognize. Let us explore something... something bigger, something new. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gwarpup
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 1, 2006 1:53 pm PT
Review:  Many people pick up this game and play it, and they review it based on just that. But what you 
 play when you get home and load this game is the Least of what this software offers. The initial 
 games in NWN are mostly to entertain you while you wait for the moding community to make huge worlds 
 online you can play online with your friends, or downloand 100s of single player campaigns, or 
 even lan campaigns for you and your friends. This is a Game Making tool like non-other. The NWN 
 community is the nicest, most helpful, and some of the most innovative and creative people on the 
 planet. Some are good enough to get real gaming industry jobs just from making NWN modules. So 
 think of the full potential for this software package before leaving a review. Sure it doesn't 
 look as good as some games, but those games are limited to single player with no online capability. 
 They devote all graphics power to a single player adventure, while NWN is expandable to allowing 
 Dungeon Masterss and Persistent online worlds. In a year or two someone could probably recreate 
 world of warcraft with this toolset and run it online. You wont every see anything like that in 
 an Elder Scrolls game, I've yet to see anyone make a unique world/campaign with the Oblivion tools, 
 because those tools are weak and limited. NWN are Unlimited! Whatever you need will eventually 
 be made by somebody if you cant make it yourself. Anyway the graphics are a huge leap forward from 
 the old NWN, and the invironments much more immersive. The included campaign is really great so 
 far and its definatly good enough to play through and learn all the great elements to the game, 
 but expect to see so much more created in the months to come. Free Games Unlimited we're talking 
 here! Id give value a 11! if I could on ratings! Great job Obsidian! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigaxel123
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 1, 2006 9:53 am PT
Review:  Lets set the record straight. If you enjoyed Neverwinter Nights 1 or either Kotor 1 or 2, this 
 game will feel right at home. It's important to note that this game does not, nor intends to, play 
 as fast as some other role-playing games (like WoW and/or Guild Wars) . This game is designed for 
 those interested in slowing things down and taking their time. The gameplay is unique following 
 the D&amp; D 3.5 ruleset in which essentially you role di vs the computer to engage a hit/miss result. 
 If someone has no understanding of how this works, it is very similar to Kotor's roll mechanics. 
 Armor gives roll benefits and offers bonuses based on whether you were hit and/or missed. All in 
 all, the mechanics work out real well and screen and you never feel bogged down by them. Graphically 
 the game boasts good and bad things. The good is the actually the environments. Great ambience 
 and feel are given to the environments which add a lot in the way of immersion. On the downside 
 you need the computer capable of running it. There are some minor clipping issues that a patch 
 will fix shortly. Audio is handled fairly well with varying character voice-work thrown in. Some 
 are annoying (which I'm sure was planned) , most fit the characters really well. The best audio 
 comes in the form of the orchestral work that went in to help creating a real epic scope when playing 
 the game. It works really well and you'll be turning the sound up to listen to it as well. As I'm 
 sure some are already aware of the best part of this game hasn't even been dealt with yet. That 
 happens to be the mod community who I know will take hold of the included Toolkit and breathe life 
 into this game for years to come. That is without question the best part of this game, longevity. 
 Whether or not you're a returning D&amp; D fan, or someone who just happened to take a look at this 
 game, it is definitely worth the price of admission. Give the game 3 hours, like I did. I entered 
 a dungeon, I thought I'd been in their for 20 minutes, it was 2 hours... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masaville
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 4, 2006 4:00 pm PT
Review:  I was eagerly awaiting the release of this title, having played the previous NWN and the Baldur's 
 Gate series. With much anticipation I fired it up, but after several hours of gameplay I have to 
 admit I'm disappointed.
  
  NWN2 does not feel like NWN, with the exception of the camera view and a few features here and 
 there, such as the re-used sound effects. The developer has turned it more into a KOTOR replica, 
 which is essence has masked the D&amp; D RPG feel. Although they have done a fairly good job with 
 the style of game that I presume they intended to produce, it feels like a fluffy RPG with the 
 distinct feeling that you're being handheld all the way through.
  
  The biggest showstopper for me was the fact that after 10 hours of gameplay there was absolutely 
 zero wow factor. Not once was I able to stop and say 'very cool' or 'well done'. Quite frankly, 
 I was bored out of my skull and eager to get back to Gothic 3, which with it's bugs, is significantly 
 superior in all areas to NWN2. Anyway, to sum it up:
  
  Pros
  ------
  -Decent storyline
  -Sound effects and voiceovers are well done
  -Combat, inventory managment, 
 and other features are true to NWN
  -Lots of camera views and controls
  
  Cons
  -------
  -Graphics are at best average compared to what's available
  -Feels like you're handheld 
 all the way
  -Zero wow factor, dull gameplay
  -No camera lock makes it hard to manage the camera position at times
  
  I hope this title goes 
 back to the original studio as they did a much better job. The flavor was lost by outsourcing. 
 I think NWN2 will appeal to the masses, but not to hardcore RPG fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Obsidiansnpr
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 1, 2006 6:29 am PT
Review:  Alright let me start of by saying that this game had some pretty pretty high expectations. As a 
 veteran player of Neverwinter Nights (I still play it from time to time) , I was very afraid that 
 this game may not live up to the hype I put it up against. However, let me say that this game is 
 phenomenal on every level. The Graphics are absolutely amazing, nothing short of gorgeous looking 
 armour and the environment is on par with that of Oblivion. I only wish I had a high end card to 
 fully exploit these stunning visuals.
  
  The Gameplay has been definitely improved upon over the first Neverwinter Nights, I don't know 
 how they did it, but its definetely better, though the AI is a bit iffy at times, most of the time 
 they do what is told or what makes the most sense in combat situations. Gameplay is very deep and 
 definetely takes time to master if your new to the whole D&amp; D aspect of RPG's. The campaign 
 editor is every modders dream, enough said.
  
  The Sound is spectacular, ambient noise, crowds talking, your own character's voice booming (or 
 screaming) over battles fought, absolutely excellent voiceovers. It's just fantastic.
  
  If people have even a passing intrest in the RPG genre, I would highly recommend you get this game 
 for a totally different dimension of RPG gaming (in my opinion the best kind of dimension) . The 
 value is unprecedented, The first Neverwinter Nights I played since it came out, and thanks to 
 the online community, who constantly made new adventures for me to check out, the first game was 
 always intresting and kept me wanting more. This game is definetely a stand alone triumph in itself, 
 but look for the online community to enhance this game in a good couple of months. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pills2k
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 1, 2006 6:25 am PT
Review:  This game is awesome. I like the 3.5 rules and they did a good job incorporating them into the 
 game. Kinda linear but so was the last one. After playing last night for several hours i'm hooked. 
 The negitive reviews will be from WoW kiddies who have never played a real RPG before and are used 
 to hack and slash. Its fun to slow things down a bit and plan attacks and watch them occur. I do 
 wish they had a way to preprogram your npc's to run default attacks on low level mobs. Other than 
 that the game is great. I'm running it at max res and so far no negitive effects. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: unigoono
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 1, 2006 3:17 am PT
Review:  Now before I rate I have to state badly that this game will be nothing like WoW, Guildwars, Fable, 
 or any of those games. That is because it is NOT made by those people. It is made by the same people 
 who made Kotor and the Old NWN so if you like those style of point and click games you will love 
 this, but whats that? Don't know if you liked those old games?
  
  Do your self a favor and go buy the old Neverwinter Nights, it is really cheap and won't piss you 
 off. Then play it and remember that this game will be 90% like that. Same style of moving, same 
 style of combat, same style of classes and leveling. There will be diffrent things like new spells, 
 classes, better graphics new story but over all do not get it expecting it to be like wow because 
 blizzard did not make this game.
  
  Now onto why I loved it. this game is a great RPG. It takes you and puts you ito a highly DnD style 
 game. The have a great story, great classes, awesome graphics and so on. But what I love about 
 it is the tool set. Yes thats right the tool set that lets every one even you, don't know much 
 about making games? Don't matter this thing is so easy to use i promise you that withing a month 
 of daily pratice you will be able to make your own mods for it. That is what i love the most is 
 because you get so much from the players who make new mods and new tile sets and so on that keep 
 this game a non stop adventure game. Who wouldn't want to spend $50 for a game that will still 
 offer new stuff 5 years later? Thats how it was with the first one.
  
  Gameplay - 9 I love twitch/fps games but this one makes me feel like im really there exploring
 
  
  graphics 9 - while maybe not as good as oblivion I still think this game has great graphics and 
 is a huge jump from their first one
  
  sound 9 - one of the fear games that make sound seem importain, not another wow game where it sucks 
 that you just turn it all off
  
  value 10 - I know from the first one that this game is going to last for years to come, I still 
 play the old one and geting new player made mods every day NOTHING is better then a game that can 
 still offer new things 5 years later, nothing
  
  Tilt 10 - call me a fanboi of these guys but with their kotor games and nwn games and all the others 
 i feel these guys remember what games were about unlike others *cough ea cough* who release bugged 
 to hell games just to get the money rolling. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mitchcoleman
Rating: 7.8
Date: Oct 31, 2006 9:17 pm PT
Review:  This is just going to be a brief rundown of first impressions:
  
  The graphics in this game are great... in the sense that, if you take a screenshot in game, it 
 looks impressive. The game seems to run smooth enough on my moderate system. The animation itself 
 doesn't seem to flow all that well though... it's not a true to life feeling. Movements seem rigid. 
 The cinematics don't feel very true to life.
  
  The character configuration is very detailed, with regards to race/class/stats/etc. The character 
 customization with regards to appearance is somewhat lacking. I was disappointed with the number 
 of combinations of appearances I could come up with. There are only a couple faces, and only a 
 couple hair styles... There are quite a few hair colors / eye colors to choose from, but these 
 customizations do very little to distinguish the appearance of the characters.
  
  So far the story seems decent, I'm enjoying it.
  
  My main complain with this game is camera 
 control. It's horrible. Honestly, you'd have to have 3 arms to play this game conveniently. 2 on 
 the keyboard and one on the mouse. A lot could have been done here, and it would have GREATLY aided 
 the playability of the game.
  
  Overall 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arjan17
Rating: 7.8
Date: Oct 31, 2006 3:33 am PT
Review:  I have been a great fan of the D&amp; D franchise, Baldurs Gate 1 and 2 expansions and Icewind Dale. 
 I did not really enjoy NVN to much it was to short in my opinion and was way to lineair compared 
 to Baldurs Gate 2. Basicly they are tripping on their own succes with the let's call it old generations. 
 Actualy I think NVM 2 is a good game by itself, gameplay is good 95% stable. But it just lacks 
 a lot of things that previous games had (pre NVN) Getting to the point people who are expecting 
 BG 3 will be sadly dissapointed. Apart from that the game is very interresting and lives up to 
 their promises I'd say. Definitly worth buying if you are a fan of action RPG's but if you expect 
 depth as in BG series better rent first I'd say. It is definitly a lot better then NVN 1 !!! Wich 
 is good by itself 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
