-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Neverwinter Nights: Shadows of Undrentide
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/neverwinternightssou/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 16, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.8
Critic Score: 8.2, 30 Review (s)
User Score: 8.2, 2,092 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Atari
Developer: BioWare
Genre: Computer Role-Playing
Date:     Jun 17, 2003 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Shadows of Undrentide isn't the most epic or memorable RPG with BioWare's name on it, but it's got 
 plenty of good, new content to satisfy most any Neverwinter Nights fan. 

  Last year's Neverwinter Nights was BioWare's ambitious attempt to capture the open-ended nature 
 of pen-and-paper Dungeons &amp; Dragons on the PC. While the game's lengthy single-player campaign 
 was hardly an afterthought, Neverwinter Nights' 3D engine and toolset got a lot of attention, because 
 they were intended to allow fans to create and host their very own D&amp; D adventures. Indeed, 
 now there are countless free fan-made Neverwinter Nights modules available for download, but as 
 you'd expect, their quality and size can vary wildly. Meanwhile, the first retail expansion pack 
 for Neverwinter Nights offers much the same level of quality that fans have come to expect from 
 BioWare's role-playing games over the years. While Shadows of Undrentide doesn't fix the shortcomings 
 of Neverwinter Nights' Aurora engine (which isn't aging as well as BioWare's Infinity engine, which 
 was used for five years' worth of great RPGs) , this expansion features a good-sized original campaign 
 and makes a few noteworthy additions to the gameplay of the original. 

          The evil blackguard is one of five new prestige classes added to Shadows of Undrentide. 
     

  Shadows of Undrentide isn't a conventional expansion pack, because it's not a continuation of the 
 previous game. Essentially it's a brand-new campaign using the same engine, so although you're 
 required to install it on top of Neverwinter Nights, the stories of the games are completely separate. 
 Undrentide's campaign is shorter than that of Neverwinter Nights, but that doesn't mean it's short -- it 
 will probably last you 25 to 30 hours, and there's some good replay value to boot. The expansion 
 retains the same excellent mechanics of Neverwinter Nights, so you can easily control your character 
 and access a variety of useful in-game information using the mouse and a few keystrokes.  

  Much like Neverwinter Nights' campaign, Undrentide's campaign does a good job of actually letting 
 you role-play your character, mostly by giving you both good-natured and evil-natured dialogue 
 options and quest solutions. There's a lot of dialogue to read through, but it's good enough if 
 you're interested, and it can be skimmed through easily if you'd rather just hack and slash your 
 way to the end. The expansion takes you through several new types of environments not found in 
 Neverwinter Nights, including a snowy wilderness, a desert, and some ancient ruins. The plot of 
 the game isn't remarkable, but it does a decent job of setting up the sorts of adventures and challenges 
 you'd expect from a fantasy RPG. Four powerful artifacts have been stolen, and you need to recover 
 them for your master. This series of quests, in turn, leads to bigger problems for your increasingly 
 experienced character, as you find yourself at odds with a number of powerful villains and their 
 appropriately sinister schemes. There are some fairly clever puzzles you'll need to solve along 
 the way, and an appropriately skilled character can often talk his way out of potentially dangerous 
 situations instead of having to fight.  

  Since you start out as an inexperienced character in the campaign, you'll appreciate that Shadows 
 of Undrentide adds five new prestige classes to the numerous character classes already available. 
 These are high-level classes that aren't available from the get-go -- they can only be selected once 
 your character has met certain requirements -- but they do give you something to aspire to. The prestige 
 classes are powerful and versatile. To name a few, the blackguard is an evil equivalent of the 
 paladin and proficient at slaying good-aligned creatures, the arcane archer imbues his arrows with 
 special enchantments, and the shadowdancer is even stealthier than a master rogue and can vanish 
 from plain sight. Like Neverwinter Nights' campaign, Shadows of Undrentide's campaign is focused 
 on your character, though you're encouraged to travel alongside a computer-controlled henchman. 
 Between the multitalented prestige classes you can choose and the several multiclassed would-be 
 henchmen you'll meet, you'll be well equipped to deal with a variety of encounters.  

  Nevertheless, those who were disappointed by the fact that Neverwinter Nights was primarily a single-character 
 campaign will likewise wish that Undrentide's campaign had lifted this restriction. Because you'll 
 almost always have no more than two characters to worry about, battles in Undrentide are easy to 
 manage and aren't nearly as tactical as those found in Infinity-engine games like Baldur's Gate 
 II or Icewind Dale II. You can pause the real-time combat and issue orders as necessary, but it 
 often isn't necessary.  

  But that's not to say the combat isn't entertaining. 3rd Edition D&amp; D gives characters lots 
 of different options and special abilities to choose from in battle. The Aurora engine does a good 
 job of making D&amp; D combat look dynamic, and it gets the pacing just right. You'll still see 
 your character and his or her foes dodging or deflecting their opponents' strikes and reloading 
 their ranged weapons between shots, among other things. Besides that, Shadows of Undrentide's new 
 environments and variety of new enemies (including some popular fantasy mainstays such as gnolls, 
 basilisks, and manticores) fit right in with the rest of Neverwinter Nights' visuals, but don't 
 really exceed the graphical standards of the original game. By now, the level of detail seen in 
 the characters, creatures, and environments leaves something to be desired when you zoom in for 
 a closer look. The game looks good overall, but the Aurora engine isn't as visually impressive 
 as it was a year ago. Shadows of Undrentide recycles much of Neverwinter Nights' audio, including 
 its music and sound effects, though it does add new music, sounds, and voices. The voice acting 
 is fine but only comes up once in a while to give a major character more of a personality. The 
 new music is mostly very good, and fits the new environments well, though some of it seems overly 
 dramatic.  

          You'll get to double-cross dragons and more in Undrentide's solid campaign.     

  Shadows 
 of Undrentide adds a few other trimmings to Neverwinter Nights. You have more control over your 
 henchmen now, most notably by being able to access their inventories and equip them as you see 
 fit. You can also order them to focus their training in a certain way -- so if you want Dorna Trapspringer, 
 the dwarven rogue cleric, to only gain cleric levels, you can have her do that. The game has a 
 few new portraits and voices for you to choose from when first creating your character, and it 
 adds a number of new feats, skills, spells, and magic items, among other things. These add to Neverwinter 
 Nights' already large variety of play options, and they give Shadows of Undrentide considerable 
 replay value. The new character options and prestige classes can be used outside of Undrentide's 
 campaign, too. The expansion also improves on the Aurora toolset by including relatively easy-to-use 
 "wizards" for creating plots, setting up shops, and generating waypoints for non-player characters. 

  It seems unlikely that BioWare's Aurora engine will enjoy as much staying power as the Infinity 
 engine before it. But no one could have expected the Infinity engine to be around for five years, 
 so who's to say? In any event, Shadows of Undrentide proves that the Aurora engine remains very 
 capable of delivering some fun and exciting role-playing experiences. If you enjoyed Neverwinter 
 Nights' campaign and core gameplay, then you'll find more of what you liked in this expansion, 
 along with a number of bonuses that help make having to level up all over again an enticing prospect. 
 At the same time, those well versed with the Aurora toolset should appreciate the new toolset improvements, 
 tilesets, monsters, spells, and items afforded by this expansion. Ultimately, Shadows of Undrentide 
 isn't the most epic or memorable RPG with BioWare's name on it, but it has plenty of good, new 
 content to satisfy most any Neverwinter Nights fan.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (33 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: KingLim
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 16, 2008 5:55 am PT
Review:  I'm not really thrilled with Shadows of Undrentide as it did not build up on the previous game 
 either for character building or gameplay challenge. In fact, your character starts from scratch, 
 which makes leveling up rather unexciting and it sort of distracts from the original game, almost 
 like a failed spin-off.
  
  The new character classes aren't much fun either, probably apart from the Blackguard, which makes 
 for an interesting and powerful build, but nonetheless, the battle tactics are more or less recycled 
 due to the low level limitations. 
  
  The campaign is rather short too, which tops your character to around level 12 or so, max, by endgame. 
 There's a glitch you can exploit without cheating to level up your character cheaply at the start 
 of the game, which you can easily figure out, but it only makes combat and further leveling up 
 later on dull and uneventful. Well, all the complaints made me rather disappointed with this expansion, 
 but it means I care!
  
  KingLim 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ViltsuH1
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 16, 2008 5:08 am PT
Review:  Well, this comes from a Neverwinter Nights veteran...
  I've played Neverwinter nights for years. Long time ago. You know when there were still dinosaurs 
 walking on earth. I think I was able to get to chapter 4 in the original neverwinter nights campaign 
 but when I got my hands on Undrentide I played it through 3 times! 
  
  The story is still as amazing as the first neverwinter nights' campaign although it doesn't have 
 the same depth, or how I'd describe it. There are alot of new enemies, weapons, armor, "subclasses" 
 (I love that new "feature"!) and it really adds points to my review!
  
  Well I guess there's not much more to say. I loved both campaigns, still do and it will forever 
 remain in my heart... Better not to pick up the game again or I'll end up thinking it's poop in 
 today's standards. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talonfire
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 10, 2008 10:30 am PT
Review:  After forcing myself to slog through the Neverwinter Nights OC recently I decided to replay both 
 of the NWN expansions again. Obviously I started with Shadows of Undrentide, and I can't say that 
 I liked it anymore than I originally did the second time around.
  
  In Shadows of Undrentide you assume the role of yet another adventurer academy goer. This particular 
 academy is located at Hilltop, a snowy land to the north. Your instructor, a former adventurer, 
 is ambushed by Kobolds, and his precious artifacts are stolen. Since no one else can do anything 
 right you're sent off to recover the artifacts with the help of a half-Orc egomaniac, or dull Dwarf... 
 yay. After the first chapter the campaign improves, but not by much. I can't for the life of my 
 figure out why they decided to call the second chapter "Interlude" instead of chapter 2, the expansion 
 is already short enough without needing to shorten even more by saying the second chapter is irrelevant.
 
  
  Shadows brings some new prestige classes into the fold, like the villainous Blackguard. There's 
 also some new creature types and tile sets used in the campaign, and available to module builders 
 in the toolset which I suppose is nice. Really though, Rural Winter should have been included in 
 the original game to begin with since it was set in northern lands. Speaking of which, where is 
 Forest Winter?
  
  The new graphics that go with the new creatures and tile sets are great in quality. They blend 
 in seamlessly with the original creatures and tilesets. The new audio is also fairly good, it could 
 have been better, but at least it's less generic than the original NWN musical score.
  
  Shadows of Undrentide is okay. It's a definite improvement over Neverwinter Nights, but compared 
 to Hordes of the Underdark or the NWN 2 OC and MotB, Shadows of Undrentide is not that great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FallenAngelXBL
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 19, 2008 11:35 am PT
Review:  Hey GS
  
  Id like to put down how I Score games (this is important if you want to understand why my score 
 is so 'low':
  1 - Utter rubbish
  2 - Utter rubbish
  3 - rubbish
  4 - average
  5 - Good
  6 - Pretty good
  7 - Great
  8 - Greater than 7
  9 - Awesome
  10 - so great 
 ill never review a game that's this good... period.
  
  Shadows of Undrentide is the sequel to Neverwinter Nights, well sort of. If you think a sequel 
 is a game that is set after the first and theres mention of the first game, then yes, this is a 
 sequel. However, if you think you must continue the originals story with the same character, by 
 character, i mean recognized hero of neverwinter then you may be disappointed at first but that 
 soon changes. SoU is the first of 2 expansions and it introduces a new hero to the series that 
 you also play as during Hordes of the Under dark (if you transfer characters) . Now to the actual 
 review.
  
  GRAPICS
  
  The graphics haven't changed at all. Theres a few new spell effects, but nothing thats really obvious. 
 This however isn't a problem as by now, you should be used to them assuming you played the original. 
 Overall however, the graphics are ok, they have just about stood the test of time. 
  
  SOUND
  
  Same great standard music as found in Neverwinter Nights with a few recycled tracks 
 and the painfully recycled Character battle cries and spell chants also make an appearance which 
 deteriorates from the feeling of a NEW game. However, there is some excellent voice acting which 
 really does add to the story telling... which is lacking as i will describe later.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  Like the original, NvN SoU is a RPG with more depth than you can shake a stick 
 at. You play as a premade, or new character and battle through hundreds of enemies to regain 4 
 magical artifacts that have been stolen and what not. So, you and your trusty companion, ranging 
 from nearly every class in the game get to battle through this 20 hour rather generic story with 
 only 1 ending but multiple ways to get there. This of course is a good thing. You fight some epic 
 battles throughout the campaign and find some pretty sweet weapons, Armour and magic. Like i mentioned 
 though, the story is pretty weak, especially compared to the originals, but the action this pack 
 contains almost makes up for it. You also get more Tool set accessories so you can expand your 
 adventure beyond that of the original with new tile sets, items and magic effects! Since the Tool 
 Set was one of the best features of the original, its great that they have brought it back, with 
 some juicy new content to keep you adventure builders happy. As well as this, you also get some 
 new classes! As well as prestige ranks such as the black knight which is basically an Anti Paladin. 
 This means you can just go though with the same classes as the original, which were varied and 
 fantastic or take some of the new ones out for a spin and have just as fun a time. 
  
  OVERALL
  
  I think this is a Solid expansion that keeps you hooked, but not by the story but 
 by the action, which in itself is a disappointment since the original was story driven. A few recycled 
 sounds deteriorate the feel of the game, but overall, if you were a fan of the original then this 
 is a MUST BUY.
  
  6.5/10 = Almost Great, but not quite. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yomonkey
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 8, 2008 4:24 pm PT
Review:  I know this isn't a terrific game but it has a certain quality, an inescapable charm to which I 
 have surrendered many hours. It's not as epic as the original and it makes you start a new character, 
 but it's easier to get into and surprisingly engrossing. Some of the writing is bad and the plot 
 spreads pretty thin at times, but it's fun... like a cheap date, or a stick of cotton candy (not 
 to say the game is all fluff) ... and well the desert tileset is cool... and the scorpion people 
 are fun to kill... new spells and stuff... i sound like an idiot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alkpaz
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 20, 2007 11:07 pm PT
Review:  The 1st expansion leaves a lot to be desired.. when it comes to importing your existing character.. 
 but if not.. you will find Shadows a worthy game in its own right using a fresh new one. The story 
 is a bit better than the original game and feels less like a grind . Although it impliments very 
 few new weapons etc.. it does offer a challenge to those people who are able to play a new character 
 without the whole awww man I need to start all over again?! mentality. Graphics are much the same 
 as in NWN, with a few new textures.. its shorter and feels less drag on compared to the original 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Voldy26
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 29, 2007 9:25 am PT
Review:  Shadows of Undrentide features some very interesting adventures, as well as new, uh, features - 
 the good and the bad. The good feature is the ability to adjust your companions inventory and 
 generally having more control over them. The bad feature is that you can no longer rest anywhere, 
 as long as there are no enemies nearby, like it was in Neverwinter Nights; more realistic, to be 
 sure, but also more annoying  there are some pretty long restless stretches, and if you are 
 a magic user, this could make your life very difficult. On the whole, Id say the games difficulty 
 is a bit too high  I played it with my character from Neverwinter Nights who was a level 15 wizard, 
 and even so I found some places challenging; I shudder to think of what it would have been like 
 had I started at level 1. Still, the game is quite enjoyable, and if you liked Neverwinter Nights, 
 you should definitely play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_Grave
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 20, 2006 10:17 am PT
Review:  SotU fixes many problems that troubled single-player gameplay in the original game. Most importantly, 
 the campaign has much better story and voice acting. Henchmen now have more tactical options and 
 you can finally alter their inventory. They are also much smarter so they will switch to melee 
 weapons if you character is shooting. The only problem is that it is somewhat difficult to have 
 both characters shooting at the same time. Henchmen can remember the weapons you told them to use 
 before. For example, if you tell your henchman to use a melee weapon, then change it to ranged, 
 when switching to melee weapon on his own the henchman will switch to the weapon you told him to 
 use the first time. They will also use any scrolls and other spellcasting items you put in their 
 inventory, although they are quite stupid with summoning so they will often resummon creatures, 
 wasting their spells, scrolls and items without a good reason.
  
  Important thing about expansions is also new content, and SotU doesn't fail there either. It brings 
 many new spells, monsters and new desert and ancient ruins settings to play with.
  
  The only thing that doesn't really shine in this expansion is the ending of the campaign. It becomes 
 more and more rushed towards the end, finally throwing you into puzzle after puzzle without many 
 explanations. I also found the final fight quite easy compared to other big fight in the game (played 
 with Monk/Druid/Shifter) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pyroguy305
Rating: 8.1
Date: Sep 2, 2006 3:15 pm PT
Review:  I very much enjoyed every aspect of neverwinter nights. This game is a small side story . You are 
 a student of an illustrious dwarven sorcerer teacher. Your whole group is attacked by kobolds who 
 poison your teacher. It is up to you to find an antidote and recover some items for your teacher. 
 Of course a larger story opens up but that would ruin it for you. The game is very fun and I would 
 strongly reccomend it for whoever enjoys neverwinter nights games or even just rpg games in general. 
 It has a slightly better than average story, with good solid gameplay and alot of replay value 
 online. Pick it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blazer88
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 6, 2006 6:25 am PT
Review:  The first expansion pack to Neverwinter NightsAnd even though it doesn't add a whole lot to the 
 game, it is still worth getting so you do have the things it does add to your game. Not to mention 
 most online servers will require it if you want to play on them. It basically adds two prestige 
 classes.,.. some new magic,.. new feats and two new tilesets (if I remember right) . The incuded 1 plater 
 module is ok,. but not spectacualr. Bioware could have added soooo much more and didn; t have any 
 excuse not to since they had literally tons of ready made material to take from,.. that being D&D 
 PnP books. Overall though still worth having and playing.
  Reccomended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: limraz
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 27, 2006 12:25 am PT
Review:  Shadows of Undrentide is more difficult than Neverwinter Nights , mainly because money are hard 
 to get and the item prices are outrageous. You scrap for every penny in order tofeedtwo mouth 
 . Taking care your henchman involve shopping / looting and Shadows doesn`t offer the same amount 
 of magical items you are used to. The fights are reasonable though, except some sturdy NPC like 
 the golems in Untrentide city or the devil in Beggar Tale - I now , he is weak against a proper 
 weapons but you don`t stumble on this type on every corner. Also no weapon upgrade available in 
 chapter 1 or interlude and one advantage - magical enemies are few and not so tough . The gameplay 
 are the shiny part of this game, thanks to a well done script with many unexpected twists and puzzle 
 solving that will keep you playing . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iceteo012
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 23, 2006 12:24 am PT
Review:  Dnt get me wrong, were the game developed by anyone other than Bioware, I probably give it higher 
 marks. But comparing SOTU to the original NWN, it falls well short of the standards set by that 
 game.
  
  Pros: The new classes are pretty fun to mess around with, giving multiclassers a fine and enjoyable 
 ride. New spells, armour (woot, blackguard armour) and weapons up the ooomph factor. 
  
  Cons: Personally for me, it doesn't have the epic scope of the original game. I was never really 
 into the story and my avatar. The game is also pretty short and it will prob end when u reach lvl 
 13 or 14. This doesnt give players much chance to play with higher lvl stuff. And the fact that 
 you have to create a new char to play the game (as an imported char will be horribly overpowered) 
 pretty much sucks for me.
  
  Verdict: An average product from Bioware. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phantomstrider
Rating: 7.1
Date: Feb 16, 2006 12:42 am PT
Review:  From the classic story of Neverwinter Nights comes the Shadows of the Undrentide. Unfortunately, 
 players are dissapointed to find that the plot has no continuation with the previous plot. The 
 single player story is fairly average, shorter, smaller and somewhat more amateur to a level. Fortunately, 
 the more linear gameplay of it can be refreshing to the labourious amount of space in number 1.
 
  
  The features added are what can make the game worth buying. It introduces new classes, spells, 
 items and environments to the game and game builder, which can add even more variety.
  
  The single player campaign was made for level 1 characters, which will dissapoint the already experienced 
 heroes out there waiting for another part of Faerun to explore. The single player module is fairly 
 short as well.
  
  Aside from the dissapointing single player module, the extra features added to Neverwinter Nights 
 make it worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A_Viper
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 6, 2006 3:48 am PT
Review:  This is the first official expansion pack for Neverwinter Nights. It offers a variety of new character 
 classes, spells and feats, as well as a whole new single player adventure.
  
  The adventure is unrelated to the original NWN plot, and is designed for level 1 characters. This 
 said, it is possible to play using experienced characters, though the game does become very easy 
 if you do this. The plot is fairly weak. Interesting quests pop up occasionally (such as the Oasis 
 quest in the Interlude) , though on the whole the plot is very average. This is a shame, considering 
 that the other features added by this expansion pack really add depth to NWN world.
  
  The new prestige classes are excellent, and really give your character something to work towards. 
 There is some good prestige class specific loot to be found along the way, and it is rewarding 
 to finally reach prestige level so that you can use these powerful items.
  
  Being able to access your henchmens inventory is a good new addition with this expansion pack, 
 as it enables you to create formidable allies with which to adventure. 
  
  There are some new environments to explore in SoU, all of which are also available to use in the 
 toolset, though this facility is still not explained well enough for everyone to be able to use 
 it, in my opinion.
  
  The voice acting is a step backwards in relation to the original game, though the adventure is 
 short enough that you won't become to frustrated listening to some characters. The adventure is 
 very short, and doesn't feature many difficult battles (I only had real difficulty with one enemy 
 in the entire game) , which is a little disappointing.
  
  On the whole this is not a bad addition to the original NWN, though it is by no means spectacular. 
 The main plus point for SoU is the new character classes, spells and feats that are added. The 
 new environments are nothing special, and the plot is pretty weak, though if you enjoyed Neverwinter 
 Nights you will still enjoy this expansion pack adventure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smerlus
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jan 13, 2006 4:41 pm PT
Review:  I have to admit, there's a whole lot more action and less downtime in Shadows, however it seems 
 the story takes a hit for this. This expansion is relatively short and uneventful. If you use the 
 same hero from Neverwinters main quest, youll find that the game doesnt pose any kind of threat 
 to you. The missions are pretty much the same things that were offered in the main story with a 
 few exceptions.
  
  The hired help has a much better AI this time around and there are more helpful tactics and options 
 to choose from that forge the way they act around you. Conversely there are only two companions 
 this time around, fortunately both seem much more up to the challenge of fighting evil. 
  
  Going through the quest with your high-leveled hero isnt a total loss as there are a few goodies 
 to be found along the way. The expansion offers a few tweaks to the gameplay but nothing as serious 
 as what is offered in Hordes of the Underdark or the premium modules. The most memorable seems 
 to be how the characters alignment can be greatly altered by the choices you make in this expansion. 
 My hero went from neutral evil, to neutral good, (which could have posed problems for advancement 
 in my assassin class) and finally ended up in chaotic evil.
  
  Graphics havent been upgraded so they remain the same and the level of detail that was spent on 
 creating the main story for Neverwinter Nights remains also. In closing, Shadows offers a brief 
 incursion into another part of the Neverwinter Universe that is mostly enjoyed with a new character. 
 The challenges posed to an already established hero are pretty much non-existent and only expedite 
 the journey through the game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mort2fire
Rating: 7.2
Date: Dec 22, 2005 5:07 am PT
Review:  This is an Expansion Pack game to the original Neverwinter nights game, which adds another story 
 line to the game.
  
  This combines a new story adventure which you have to seek out , whos gang killed your friend at 
 the beginning of the game.
  
  This new adventure contains all new 20 hours filled with new character classes, including five 
 prestige classes-
  Monsters, Weapons, Feats, Skills, and Spells!
  
  You can develop your own world using the NEW Neverwinter Aurora Toolset Wizard and construct your 
 own plot and set traps and develop new characters and adjuct their conversations to customise the 
 neverwinter nights experiance.
  
  Another deep cutting action adventure game to enjoy your neverending story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nawras
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 13, 2005 1:04 am PT
Review:  || Shadows of the Undertide ||
  
  SoU is the first expansion pack to one of my personal favorite games, Neverwinter Nights. Needless 
 to say, I had a lot of high hopes for this one. Did it match the greatness of the original game? 
 Unfortunately, while SoU certainly has its merits, it has some major drawbacks which may scare 
 away some of the original fans.
  
  | Story
  
  After the dramatic finale in Neverwinter, the now-famous adventurer and savior is spending the 
 holidays at some other academy on the snowy fields of Hilltop. Unlike Neverwinter Academy, you 
 do not get trained (they assume you know the drills already) and hence the first drawback: If you're 
 starting with a new character altogether you may have some difficulties figuring out everything, 
 or you may revert back to the Acadmy in Neverwinter (play the original prelude) to get you acquainted. 
 Anywho, the Academy gets attacked by creatures called the Kobolds and your new master is poisoned. 
 Some old acquaintance of his mysteriously appears and tells you that you need to collect the stolen 
 relics from the Kobolds before your master gets cured. This is regarded as your final exam in the 
 Academy.
  
  Of course, the story gets grander than collecting relics, but not as grand as you would hope. Unfortunately 
 the story isn't dramatic at all, with minor if negligible twists, and the story seems like a rushed 
 sidestory to the original game. If you look at it differently however, you can assume that this 
 whole expansion pack is a prelude to the second expansion pack, but that's for later.
  
  Anyway, you eventually get to the point of imminent disaster, where a witch is to restore the floating 
 cities of Netheril for all her glory to control, and it is up to you to stop... or join her.
  
  | Gameplay
  
  The gameplay has remained the same with the addition of some extra features 
 which make the game more interesting. For starters, you get four Prestige Classes, which are enhancements 
 to the original characters classes found in the game. Of course, you have to meet their prerequisite, 
 which vary considerably. Also, just because you have met the requirements of one doesn't mean it 
 suits you - these Presitige Classes are largely felt if combined with a matching original class. 
 For instance, a Rogue may become a Blackguard but would benefit more if he/she becomes an Assassin.
 
  
  The second major improvement is that you can now fiddle with your henchmen's inventory. This is 
 extremely useful because you can now carry more items, plus you get to equip them with whatever 
 you want. Also, you can tell your henchmen how to level up. Usually they are split between two 
 classes, and you can let them level up in the two or tell them to focus on one. It's very useful 
 if your character is already one of the classes present and you may want the henchman to focus 
 exclusively on the other class.
  Interesting small additions include the ability of your henchmen to request to talk to you every 
 now and then or warn you of certain suspicous characters or monsters. You also get the "tracks", 
 where you can see where monsters have headed and get more info on the whereabout of certain entities 
 and the rest.
  
  Unfortunately, the game's difficulty has been toned down a lot, and with the majority of two-thirds 
 of the gameplay spending it in vast, open terrain with little effortless enemies, it can get pretty 
 annoying if you don't progress fast in the game story. Which is shorter by the way. However, near 
 the end it gets notoriously difficult, almost too annoying even, and the game seems unbalanced. 
 The tradeoff is that the final battle seemed ridiculously easy compared to the final dungeon. 
 
  
  Since of course you left Neverwinter, you suddenly realize that no one seems to worship Tyr outside 
 that city. So unfortunately, dying here isn't as simple as it is in the original game. With the 
 absence of Temple of Tyr, your only escape from battle is the ring given to you by your master 
 - which is unfortunately a one way trip from your doom to safetey. If you intend on going back 
 to the dungeon... well, you have to walk there. But you wouldn't need it anyway since the game 
 is easy. If you're playing this game, start with a Druid. Not only do they seem to have an obvious 
 advantage given all the animals you find in the wilderness, they are also weaker than the rest 
 of the fighting classes so the game may be more challenging.
  
  | Overall
  
  My main suggestion here is that if your original Neverwinter character did not reach level 20, 
 import him or her and play the game. With all the amount of "free" XP you gain (sometimes you get 
 XP by simply talking to a person) , by the end of the quest you would have reached level 20 which 
 is a good start if you plan on playing the second expansion pack... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vissuluth
Rating: 6.3
Date: May 17, 2005 10:25 am PT
Review:  B, per comensar he de dir que faig aquesta review bastant temps desprs dhavermel acabat, per 
 tinc bastant recentes les sensacions que em van quedar.
  Com a expansi del Neverqinter es queda una mica curta, jo crec que perd una mica la orientaci 
 en quan a la histria, la veig fora de lloc, a ms a ms desprs de fer-me el joc base, la veritat 
 es que costa ficar-se en la expansi ja que he quedat un pel saturat, ja que el joc base s molt 
 llarg i feixug, potser aix a influenciat en la meva valoraci.
  Grficament molt fluix, la veritat s que les novetats sn ridcules i algunes sn imperceptibles, 
 a ms a ms a perdut fluidesa respecte al joc base, llstima, entre aix i que els grfics ja eren 
 fluixos abans, es queda molt pobre visualment.
  El so tampoc s cap meravella, com el joc base.
  Per basem-nos en el joc en global: s pesat, 
 ms del mateix per ms carregat encara, comensa ms o menys b per va derivant en una histria 
 molt pesada, sobretot al final, quin final ms feixug, amb les visites interfase, i tot all. 
 
  No s si em quedaran forces per fer la segona expansi i les altres que han tret per internet, 
 de moment noms he comensat la Hordes of the Underdark i ho he deixat perqu t pinta del mateix.
 
  Sort que en el seguent joc de Bioware han deixat de banda la pesades i els mals grfics de banda, 
 Knights of the Old Republic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lordofinsight
Rating: 7.9
Date: Mar 21, 2005 3:33 pm PT
Review:  An affair. That's all this felt like. Took me less than three days to finish and it was over. Enjoyed 
 it. Nothing really new to NWN, I just keep wanting more out of this game and it just does not quite 
 deliver. Can' t quite put my finger on it but it doesn't give me the same satisfaction of other 
 RPG's. It is not fast paced like diablo, but it is not thought provoking like the baldurs gate 
 series. It is somewhere in the middle. I think they would benefit if they went one way or the other 
 rather than sitting in the middle. Frustrating in one word. 
  
  So much potential here pray that they can unlock it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FireBot
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 8, 2005 12:06 am PT
Review:  This is where the game got it good. There are new classes your character can be on. There is the 
 Arcane Archer, which is a master of the elven war bands. There is the Assassin, who is a master 
 in dealing quick death blows. The Blackguard, is nothing short of a mortal fiend. There are more, 
 obviously, but that is just a taste. 
  
  There are also new skills your character can learn; including: Appraise, Craft Trap, and Tumble. 
 I am not going o tell you what these do since they are pretty self explanatory and you need to 
 buy this game. 
  
  There are also new feats your character can learn, some of which are very cool and can help you 
 greatly on your quest. Some of them include: Divine Shield, Dirty Fighting, and Circle Kick. Each 
 one can help you some time during a quest, and only certain classes can learn certain ones, just 
 like in the regular Neverwinter Nights. 
  
  Finally there was a whole new set of single player missions added, which really extend the game 
 play time on this game, they are sure to keep you busy for many more hours. They also follow a 
 very good, and gripping, story line. 
  
  These remain pretty much unchanged, but that's okay since the graphics were really good from the 
 start. The only new thing in this section really are the looks of the new characters, which I haven't 
 seen much of, but you can certainly tell them apart from others. There are also the new monsters 
 that look very weird, but just as cool as the other ones. They look so real, in fact, I wouldn't 
 be surprised to see on walking in my yard. 
  
  The sound, much like the graphics, goes vastly unchanged. Again this isn't bad since it was great 
 to begin with. I think they added some new battle cries in to accommodate the new character classes 
 (I will talk about those in the game play section) . 
  
  Overall this is a solid expansion, and anyone that owns, and liked, the first Neverwinter Nights 
 must pick this one up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jan 25, 2005 5:56 pm PT
Review:  It is clear when playing "Shadows of Undrentide" that Bioware listened to the criticisms of the 
 core game, "Neverwinter Nights". The faults of that game have not been eliminated, but they have 
 at least been addressed, and the results are satisfying. This expansion pack then provides a pretty 
 good single player campaign that takes about 30 hours to finish. 
  
  One of the major improvements is in your interactions with the henchmen. The henchmen have more 
 personality and more depth than they had in the core game, and you can also adjust their inventory. 
 You can even request them to cast spells, although this ability isn't all that useful. These changes 
 provide some tactics and depth to the game that was lacking in the original campaign. The downside 
 is that there are only three different henchmen who can join you in this game, and you can still 
 only take one. Thus, the expansion pack retains some of the balance issues of the core game. You 
 also can't micro-manage your henchmen in combat or select their spells. Combat still tends to be 
 oversimplified and repetitive. The Nevewinter Nights series was a big failure in this area.
  
  The first half of "Shadows" has a lot of opportunities for role-playing (something else that 
 was lacking in the original game) . This part of the game is somewhat nonlinear, and takes a long 
 time to get through. The second half of the game is a bit more of a dungeon crawl, and it's not 
 quite as satisfying. However, the dungeon design is very unique and interesting, so it manages 
 to avoid some of the monotony of Neverwinter Nights.
  
  "Shadows of Undrentide" fails to be outstanding, because it fails to completely correct the problems 
 with the core game. Instead, it makes some minor upgrades. The story is somewhat ordinary, but 
 the grand enemy boss in the game is interesting, and you will accomplish some interesting tasks 
 to win the game. "Shadows of Undrentide" isn't extraordinary, but it's worth playing if you enjoyed 
 Neverwinter Nights or wished that it had beena bit better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jseigler
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 17, 2005 2:19 pm PT
Review:  SOU has the ability to be a great add-on to the already impressive Neverwinter Nights game. The 
 different concepts for the plots are very good, but the storyline is not as fleshed out as in NWN 
 or the add-on Hordes of the Underdark. The opportunity is there, but the developers failed to achieve 
 the potential of this game.
  
  Additionally, until the patch just recently released in Jan 2005 became available, SOU would lock-up 
 my computer or crash it when trying to load Chapter 2. This is clearly unacceptable, and whatever 
 the bug was, it should have been caught much, much sooner than 2 years after its release.
  
  Overall, I enjoy the NWN series and am looking forward to the Premium Modules when they're 
 released. SOU is a decent add-on, but does not live up to the high standards set by the original 
 NWN. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SadExchange
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 1, 2004 8:08 pm PT
Review:  Almost exactly 1 year after the initial release of Neverwinter Nights, Bioware came out with an 
 expansion, which is subtitled Shadows of Undrentide.
  
  This expansion adds three new tilesets including: Rural Winter Tileset, Ruins Tileset, and a Desert 
 Tileset. It also adds 5 prestige classes which includes: Arcane Archer, Assassin, Blackguard, Shadowdancer, 
 and the Harper Scout. Bioware also included 16 new creatures, over 50 new spells, and over 30 new 
 feats that each character could choose on their new 20-25 hour campaign that stretches from the 
 Silver Marches to the Floating City of Netheril.
  
  After hearing what the community wanted for new material, Bioware certainly delivered with all 
 new content so the community could make their own modules using the new content to enhance their 
 already great modules. There are easily thousands of modules out there that can be downloaded from 
 sites like www. nwvault. ign. com. The site also gives up to the moment news about the modules and 
 how they rate to the reviewers.
  
  The new campaign by Bioware includes, Chapter 1, an Interlude, and then Chapter 2. Where you'll 
 go from a level 1 character to level 12. As the same with the original NWN, you only get one henchman 
 to accompany you, but you get total control of their inventory and also how they progress in levels/class 
 which is a nice feature.
  
  The graphics have not changed much from the original campaign, but the new content added provides 
 a breath of fresh air. The Aurora Engine is showing it's age though over the past year.
  
  The sound also has gained a couple songs worth and has been done really well again like NWN.
 
  
  The storyline, although not as good as some of Bioware's older games (Baldur's Gate series) , still 
 has a good plot that is far better than the original campaign in NWN. More choices are added for 
 whatever alignment you want to be, whether it's a lawful evil blackguard or just a chaotic good 
 ranger, everyone gets their fill.
  
  With the newest expansion out since the 2nd of December, fans can look forward to progressing their 
 story with their character since both expansions coincide with each other.
  
  The content alone makes this first expansion a good buy, but with the knowledge of more to come 
 from Bioware, it makes it the best thing since individually wrapped cheese. 
  
  Required install of NWN to operate 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sgthalka
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 14, 2007 7:19 am PT
Review:  The case for a great expansion pack is always, "Does it improve the original so much that you could 
 never go back to playing the original after seeing the expansion's tweaks and additions?" In the 
 case of SoU, you can definitely answer "yes" to that question.
  
  Firstoff, SoU's campaign is greatly underrated, IMO. It begins with a somewhat tedious item-fetching 
 quest, but once you get past the first Chapter (SoU includes two chapters and an "intermission") , 
 the plot thickens into a quite interesting tale that's a bit more focused and easy-to-buy than 
 the original NWN campaign. The areas you'll explore are also much more tightly edited than NWN. 
 Each area has a purpose, and most named NPCs are vital to quests or the storyline. Thankfully, 
 you won't see empty, pointless rooms filled with barrels or chests containing potions and 8 gold 
 pieces in SoU. All the areas that felt like filler in NWN are graciously absent here.
  
  Particular praise is due for the final levels of Chapter 2. These are some of the most creative 
 and engrossing level designs I've seen in the series yet.
  
  Gameplay-wise, there are some great tweaks, the most important being you can edit your henchman's 
 inventory and suit him up with the best gear you'd like. On the downside, there are only really 
 3 henchmen you can choose from, and you can still only have one henchman in your party (at least 
 until Hordes of the Underdark, which allows you two henchmen) . However, everyone will want to pick 
 up Deekin after Chapter One, who turns out to be the best-written Bioware NPC since HK-47 in KOTOR 
 or the classics in Baldur's Gate II (Minsc, Edwin) .
  
  With respect to graphics and sound, the score seems to be recycled from NWN but the new environmental 
 tilesets look quite decent, especially the frozen forestland the story begins in, as well as the 
 deserts. The dungeons themselves tend to look very generic and lack some of the creepiness of the 
 cobweb-filled corridors and infested sewers of NWN.
  
  Unfortunately, some of the problems that plagued NWN are still here in SoU. Namely, the tendency 
 of NPCs to storm off into combat when you're not ready, or once you're in the middle of a battle, 
 your henchmen may or may not dive into action. Sometimes Deeking is ready and willing, and sometimes 
 he just stands off to the distance, plotting a spell or reading a book or God knows what, but he's 
 certainly not doing anything useful.
  
  Overall, however, I was pleased to find such a good storyline. It's not groundbreaking RPG material 
 here, and certainly not in league with some of the best PC RPGs of all time, including KOTOR and 
 BG II, but IMO SoU is a unpolished gem I'm grateful I'm finally getting around to playing through. 
 
  
  Here's hoping that Hordes of the Underdark continues to improve what is often the most underappreciated, 
 overly criticized PC RPG series of recent years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Epicsoldier
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 25, 2004 2:05 am PT
Review:  Great Add-on to an already great game. The expansion adds enough to deserve the score almost every 
 game site will give it. It's truely a great great game. Theres not alot to say about it, it adds 
 some new graphical enhancements but nothing really special. The items and stuff in the game has 
 changed, but its' worth the money you plaid for it!.
  
  Gameplay - 9/10
  Graphics - 9/10
  Sound - 9/10
  Value - 9/10
  Tilt - 9/10
  
  It's worth to play till Neverwinter 
 Nights 2 comes out. Multiplayer is also a great part in this expansion!. Altogether it's a good 
 game, and i suggest it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bollwinkel
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 17, 2004 12:46 am PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY: 
  Unlike most RPGs, the gameplay really does vary depening on the character you decide to make and 
 how you play it. The default difficulty isn't terribly high, so the game is certainly more challanging 
 and interesting if you make a character that isn't all that powerful and set the game to highest 
 possible difficulty. However the designers did a nice of job of occasionally pitting you against 
 very powerful opponents that are all but impossible to defeat (at least initially) in a direct 
 confrontation. 
  
  GRAPHICS:
  Nothing special here, althought some of the spell effects can be a little spectacular. 
  
  
 SOUND:
  WOW. The music (and sometimes the ambient noise) is among the best of any game I've ever played.
 
  
  VALUE:
  This will largely be determined by the player and how they approach the game. I initially bought 
 the expansion just to get the feature set that came with it and to allow for greater compatability 
 with online multiplayer. However, the campaign itself turned out to be quite a gem.
  
  FINAL THOUGHTS:
  I've played all three campaigns, the Original, SoU, and HotU. I must say that 
 I was supprised to find that Shadows of Undrentide was my favorite of the three. The Original lacked 
 a cohesive plot and sadly HotU has yet to capture my imagination. SoU while at first seeming unispiring, 
 ended up unfolding into a richly woven world reminicent of Baldur's Gate. Not only does it make 
 ample use of compelling plot devices, it also has the perfect difficulty level to keep the game 
 at a decent well paced challange. Your milage may vary, but keep in mind that the game becomes 
 more interesting (challenging) if you don't try to maximize your characters' ability to kick butt. 
 Right now I'm using an Enchanter and I'm trying to play the game with minimal use of Evocation 
 (or destructive) spells. Playing as an enchanter is a blast, and opens up a plethora of roleplaying 
 options. The customized responses for my abilities actually make me want to play the game through 
 again (something I've never actually wanted to do in an RPG) from another uniquely underpowered 
 perspective just to see how different and enjoyable the experience will be. 
  
  Seeing how the world seems to meld itself to my Enchanters perspective, I can sense the myriad 
 possibilities of playing other so called "gimp" characters that have an personal appeal and are 
 very effective regardless of their lack of sheer killing power. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheShadowDawn
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jan 17, 2004 11:27 pm PT
Review:  Pros:
  -Additional single player content that caters well to the casual gamer
  -Strengthening of weaker classes and the addition of new character customisation options
  -Much 
 more satisfying control of henchmen
  -Much more effective implementation of alignment shift in the campaign
  
  Cons:
  -The single 
 player campaign is barely half the length of the original, if that
  -Fails abysmally on creating even a remotely engaging storyline; abrupt and poor gameplay pacing
 
  -Placeable and animation heavy areas will put a strain on even the newest of machines... I was 
 able to run NWN on highest detail levels, yet SoU's campaign lags on the lowest
  
  Summary:
  I cannot conceive why the casual gamer would want to buy this expansion. I liked Neverwinter 
 Nights, but Shadows of Undrentide is decidedly lackluster. It seems to me that this should be only 
 for the dedicated fans who keep up with the online community and new content that requires the 
 expansions and their greater toolset flexibility. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jgalt
Rating: 5.8
Date: Aug 2, 2003 5:26 am PT
Review:  More of the same. Yes they add tiles, feats, prestige classes and a new campaign, but in the end 
 it's the same old same old. I think the NWN system is a good one except that I find the combat 
 in the NWN system dull to the extreme. Lets face it, while P&P RPGs focus on roleplaying, CRPGs 
 focus on combat. When a CRPG's combat is not entertaining that's a recipe for disaster. With better, 
 more entertaining combat, I'd give this game and the original an 8.5, with the combat as is they 
 get a 5.8, and that's keeping in mind my high tilt towards CRPGs (although my tilt would be a 10 
 if it were party based and turn based - I can't wait for TOEE) . If that wasn't the case the score 
 would be much lower. The moral of that story is only CRPG fans will really enjoy NWN. Personally, 
 if you want to play a single character CRPG, I enjoyed Divine Divinity much more than either NWN 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Giolon
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 5, 2003 8:36 pm PT
Review:  This review may contain minor spoilers.
  
  On the whole, I liked the SoU Campaign better than the original OC. However, there were never any 
 parts of the plot that held me thoroughly enraptured like Charwood or the Snowglobe in the OC. 
 Thankfully nothing was as long and tedious as Chapter 2 of the OC. And now a Chapter by Chapter 
 breakdown of my thoughts:
  
  Chapter 1: This, I felt, was by far the best chapter out of the entire SoU campaign. There are 
 plenty of role playing options to explore, the pacing of character progression is quick, and the 
 path you can take through the chapter is mostly non-linear. There are enough side quests to do, 
 each with multiple solutions. Especially nice are the extra roleplaying options and placeables 
 for the Rangers and Druids among us. A very nice touch considering Chapter 1 takes place mostly 
 among the snowy wilderness.
  
  Interlude: Also an excellent chapter, but unfortunately it is entirely linear. You proceed from 
 area to area in sequence, solving one problem (one "dungeon" per area) . The quests are all entertaining, 
 but consist exactly of "Oh no, we've hit a problem. We need you to fix it before we can move on."
 
  
  Chapter 2: Thankfully, this chapter is not quite as linear as the Interlude and will take you to 
 many interesting places in one of it's subquests. The "main quest" of the chapter had a pretty 
 ingeneous solution. My only complaint is about the final area leading up to the last boss. It is 
 filled with hoardes of weak enemies that make you just want to roll your eyes as you see yet another 
 gaggle of 10 wisps come floating towards you. They aren't incredibly dangerous and only serve to 
 slow you down. The final boss battle was a little bit of a let down, I only had to retry it one 
 time. It consists again of figuring out how to make an "invincible" creature vulnerable, but it's 
 not so hard to figure out.
  
  Overall: Chapter 1 is easily the best of the three. I'm not quite sure why the Interlude is not 
 just called "Chapter 2" and the final one "Chapter 3" as there is much that goes on in the Interlude. 
 The difficulty ramps up quite unevenly in middle to end of the Interlude and the beginning of Chapter 
 2 as better equipment is nearly always too expensive to buy and you usually have to go through 
 a few miniquests to get better stuff out in the field. Quite a good campaign overall. There are 
 many interesting characters to meet. I especially liked the desert Druid in the Interlude, Tymofarrar, 
 and, of course, Deekin! Everyone will want to take Deekin with them on their first time through. 
 Deekin ranks right up there with Minsc as one of *THE BEST* NPCs Bioware has created to journey 
 with you in their games (with best being most "interesting" to travel with) .
  
  As a final note, I played through with an Elven ranger with a wolf as my animal companion and Deekin 
 as my henchman (Dorna before I got Deekin) . I ended up Level 12.
  
  Quick breakdown:
  
  Gameplay: 8/10 -- On the whole better than the orignal OC. The Interlude is very linear, but you 
 are doing mostly interesting quests. Lots of roleplaying opportunities.
  
  Graphics: 9/10 -- New spell effects and critters are nice. New tilesets look great. Outstanding 
 texture work.
  
  Sound: 7/10 -- A lot of sound bugs in this. Excellent voice acting the whole time. New music is 
 just as good as the music from the original, I just wish there were more of it.
  
  Value: 10/10 -- For $30, you get 5 prestige classes, a handful of new skills, over 50+ spells, 
 a 20+ hour campaign, the ability to modify your henchman's inventory, tons of new scripting abilities 
 in the toolset (including commands to do some fancy camera work) . I daresay, it doesn't get much 
 better than this.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: 9/10 -- Is it a must-buy for NWN owners? I would say almost certainly. If you 
 didn't like NWN at all, you won't find much in SoU to change your mind. If it was only NWN's OC 
 that turned you off, you will find the SoU campaign to have a tighter focus and better things to 
 do than search 1000+ random barrels. If you are a builder, there's the new camera scripting abilities 
 and projectile traps.
  
  Overall: 8.7/10
  
  Recommended?: Yes! For the new skills and Prestige Classes alone it's almost worth it. Add in the 
 excellent campaign and you've got a winner.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rowedahelicon
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 19, 2003 10:57 am PT
Review:  I'm still stunned at how many improvements over the original campain there are - even ignoring 
 the new feats, spells, creatures, etc. Probably the most notable improvement - and this improvement 
 is actually the sum of many smaller improvements - is the freedom to role play your character. 
 The original campaign required that you save Neverwinter and offered you points towards good for 
 it. To gain evil points you had to do things that might be out of character. To maintain a lawful 
 evil alignment, for instance, one might have had to mug someone in the streets. There just weren't 
 enough opportunities to account for all alignments.
  
  In Shadows you're often faced with moral dilemmas that can be solved any number of ways. And for 
 each possibility, you're often given the opportunity to explain why you came to that decision. 
 Most options will not only effect your standing on the good/evil scale but the lawful/chaotic scale 
 as well. That's something the original campaign seemed to ignore almost entirely.
  
  If you were a fan of the original game you owe it to yourself to check this out. On the other hand, 
 if you weren't a fan of the original, you probably won't like this one either. It's as simple as 
 that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fionn
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 18, 2003 5:21 pm PT
Review:  I have begun playing NeverWinter Nights expansion set today. Thus far the game has been fun. The 
 graphics are the usual same bland look but I can tell already some of the changes they made for 
 the better. You can now access your henchmens inventory and your henchmen will not die but lay 
 uncounsious so I can heal him/her after the battle. 
  
  The game is not perfect and it's not a memorable game that you will want to play for a long time, 
 but for now its enjoyable and something to get you by till Doom 3 and Half Life 2 hits the stores:) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Malovech
Rating: 3.1
Date: Jun 17, 2003 4:35 pm PT
Review:  What a massive disappointment this and NWN as a whole are, it is a year later and this game has 
 failed utterly in fulfilling its dream role as the computer-version of D&D. You still can't ride 
 mounts, you still have this idiotic point of view, and unless you are at least a junior level C+ 
 programmer you are limited to the pathetic wizards that the toolset comes with. It was a nice attempt 
 but Unrentide and NWN proper need some serious tweaking before it becomes adopted by hardcore DMs 
 that want to control ALL aspects of their campaigns- yet not have to go back to school to do so. 
 
  
  Unrentide has decent graphics, but it is completely uninspired, much like the utterly throwaway 
 crapola that was the single player version of NWN. Stop wasting your bloody time BioWare and perfect 
 the toolset version of this game! That is the true value of NWN, single player modules are the 
 complete antithesis of true RPGs and a irresponsible waste of resources. If you want this franchise 
 to flourish and become something truly good then listen to your detractors.
  
  Oh and Knights of the Old Republic is going to suck. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: askewzero
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 17, 2003 3:29 pm PT
Review:  I absolutely love this game. It has it all. I think the GameSpot reviewer did a poor job in evaluating 
 the game. That's why I rarely listen to reviews before I buy a game. These reviewers are just jaded. 
 So I thought I would add my 2 cents so people would know there is more to the game than website 
 reviews, and hopefully other publications will give it a fair shake. Enthusiasts of the genre will 
 be very pleased. The only complaints I have is the journal, every time you start play there are 
 many quests that are highlighted as new, that are completed or simply not new. That is a minor 
 problem considering all the major strengths of this game. Buy this expansion, no RPG fan should 
 be without it. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
