-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Neverwinter Nights 2: Mask of The Betrayer
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/neverwinternights2maskofthebetrayer/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Deep role-playing experience that offers up puzzles and battles.
 Intriguing story with plenty of replay.
 Cool new Forgotten Realms setting to explore .
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 The spirit-eating mechanic is annoying at best, frustrating at worst.
 The isometric camera can't remember its position.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 11, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 8.2, 22 Review (s)
User Score: 8.3, 1,456 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Atari
Developer: Obsidian
Genre: Computer Role-Playing
Date:     Oct 9, 2007 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Mask of the Betrayer offers up a deeper, darker, and ultimately more satisfying role-playing experience 
 than Neverwinter Nights 2. 

  If Neverwinter Nights 2 was a movie, it'd be a typical summer blockbuster. After all, last year's 
 fantasy role-playing game was packed with tons of colorful characters, humorous dialogue, and, 
 above all else, nonstop action as you battled your way through the game. On the other hand, Neverwinter 
 Nights 2: Mask of the Betrayer, the newly arrived expansion, is a much darker and more cerebral 
 experience. There's not that much comic relief, and there's a lot more puzzle-solving than before. 
 That's not to say that it doesn't feature plenty of action. In fact, it's packed with titanic battles. 
 However, the tone is a lot more serious.  

           Mask of the Betrayer is a darker, much more epic follow-up to last year's Neverwinter 
 Nights 2.      

  It's almost impossible to talk about the plot without spoiling the ending of Neverwinter Nights 
 2. Then again, most people who pick up this expansion will probably have played through that epic 
 RPG and will transfer their existing characters over. Nevertheless, it's still possible to pick 
 up the expansion, create a brand-new level 18 character, and play the game even if you've never 
 played NWN2, though the plot will likely be confusing. So with that out of the way, Mask of the 
 Betrayer finds you on the other side of the continent from the city of Neverwinter. The fabled 
 Silver Sword of Gith is gone, including the shard that was embedded in your chest. In its place 
 is a dark and mysterious hunger, and the ensuing quest to find answers will have you uncover a 
 story of a failed rebellion against the god of death.  

  Mask of the Betrayer brings a lot of exciting new things to Neverwinter Nights. First off, there 
 are new races in the form of the elemental genasi and wood elves, as well as new character and 
 prestige classes. If you want to play the original NWN2 with these new races and classes, you can. 
 The setting of spirit-infested Rashemen is a refreshing change of pace from the Sword Coast, which 
 has been the subject of countless D&amp; D games. Rashemen makes for a much more haunted setting, 
 particularly when you take into account the shadow plane, an alternate mirror dimension that feels 
 as if you're trapped in a nightmare. Mask of the Betrayer introduces some cool new characters and 
 companions, and even more intriguingly, the companions you have access to depend on key decisions 
 you make throughout the game. For instance, if you spare the spirit of a bear god during a pivotal 
 battle, he'll accompany you on your travels and open up quests that you would have otherwise not 
 had access to. These decisions basically fall in good and evil categories, so there's not a lot 
 of moral gray area in the game.  

  The expansion also does a great job of diversifying the gameplay. In NWN2, there was almost no 
 situation that couldn't be solved with a little combat. On the other hand, Mask of the Betrayer 
 is packed with all sorts of devious puzzles. For instance, a trip to a wizard school will have 
 you trying to figure out an elaborate mirror puzzle, as well as attempting to break a contract 
 with a devil. This is an expansion that will make you think, and that's a good thing.  

  Everything about Mask of the Betrayer feels epic compared to NWN2. You begin the expansion at level 
 18 or higher if you imported your existing character, and at that point you're already flirting 
 with D&amp; D's "epic" character levels. To give you a challenge, the game forces you to battle 
 a variety of ridiculously tough monsters and opponents, though you'll also have an opportunity 
 to pick up extremely rare and exotic weapons and equipment. You really feel like a legendary hero 
 in this game. If there's one issue about the battles, it's that if you have a high-end system and 
 all the graphical effects are turned up, it can almost be impossible to figure out what's going 
 on during a fight. There are so many massive spell effects obscuring the screen, and lightning 
 flashes creating huge shadows on the ground, that trying to manage a fight is almost impossible. 
 Sure, it looks spectacular, but it's also completely chaotic.  

  Not every new feature in Mask of the Betrayer is a home run. The game's most controversial addition 
 is undoubtedly the spirit hunger that consumes your character. This hunger acts like a drug addiction, 
 and it can be completely frustrating at first because the mechanics are confusing. Basically, your 
 character has to consume spirits (essentially souls) to stay healthy and alive. Consume too many 
 spirits too quickly, and you become more addicted and the effects of eating souls are shorter and 
 shorter lived. The easier path is to suppress and satiate your hunger, which is basically the good 
 path. But if you play an evil character, you have to consume spirits, so it becomes a vicious cycle 
 in which you spend most of your time worrying about your spirit level. It's too bad that developer 
 Obsidian doesn't let players opt out of this mechanic entirely. As it is, you have to carefully 
 manage your every move, given that acts such as resting and travel will only drain the meter more 
 quickly. This hunger system is probably a boon to hardcore role-playing fans who enjoy making tough 
 decisions, but those who enjoyed NWN2 as a fun romp are apt to be frustrated.  

  Furthermore, Mask of the Betrayer introduces a new camera system that lets you play the game from 
 a third-person perspective not unlike the one found in World of Warcraft. It's a nice feature that 
 potentially opens the game up to new players, but it's annoying that it's the default setting. 
 If you're a NWN2 veteran and prefer the prior camera style, you have to tweak the options to get 
 it back to the familiar top-down isometric view. Unfortunately, the isometric view takes a step 
 back because it now lets you rotate the camera around. The problem is that the game never quite 
 remembers your favorite orientation, so if you load a new section of the game or a save, you'll 
 have to reorient the camera most of the time.  

           The battles are a lot tougher, and there are also challenging puzzles to solve.      

 
  Aside from those issues and a few small bugs, Mask of the Betrayer is a fairly polished game, 
 and it's a lot more impressive out of the box than NWN2 was at its debut. The code has been optimized 
 over the past year, so the frame rate holds up, even during graphically intense battles where spell 
 effects are everywhere on the screen. Additionally, mod makers and dungeon masters will appreciate 
 the new tile sets and improvements made to the built-in editor that lets you build your own adventures. 
 The audio experience in Mask of the Betrayer is excellent, from the abundant and solid voice acting 
 to the bombastic orchestral music that swells during battles.  

  Mask of the Betrayer is a much more mature expansion, both due to its content and because it demonstrates 
 how Obsidian Entertainment is maturing as a developer. If you felt that NWN2 was a bit too action-focused, 
 then you should definitely check out Mask of the Betrayer's blend of combat, puzzles, and decision-making. 
 As it is, Mask of the Betrayer offers up a rich role-playing experience for fans of the genre. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (61 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: stoods
Rating: 4
Date: Jan 15, 2009 1:33 pm PT
Review:  Okay, i believed that the story line was rubbish, and that i had been aloud to continue from nwn 
 2 which was great, but i had a feeling that i wanted to go to neverwinter and not mulsantir.
  I like the new feats and spells but my companions were all spellcasters, apart from the bear (he 
 was more like a familiar) i wanted some fighters, because there were difficult enemies but my companions 
 couldnt defend themselves, i had hoped Khelgar would appear but noooo!
  
  I hated the spiriteater, it was a constant thorn in my side that i had to constantly eat spirits 
 to live, i think they could have done without this but yes where would the purpose of this game 
 be?
  I dont remmember any exciting moment in the game apart from hoping that the knightcaptain returns 
 to the sword coast.
  
  I get bugs in the game and my companions become idle or dont follow me at the most annoying times, 
 it crashes when i completed quests.
  
  I believe that it was just did not keep up with the original and that it was just too far a jump 
 for me
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxxkgnb
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 15, 2009 11:37 am PT
Review:  Well, the camera is a Little better, and the story continues. Good game considering the rpg element 
 and if you like this sort of game play. It's slow, but does require some thought. The cut and paste 
 feel of Neverwinter is a little dull but there is enough game time here to make up for most of 
 that. The new characters that can be made, and spells, as well as, the abilities are cool. The 
 mainstream make of this title holds enough value at 20 U. S. dollars to make it worth picking up. 
 More of the same with a few new added features and patches to make it a decent value for what you 
 get. If your a fan of Neverwinter 2 it's worth getting and you know what to expect, but it is far 
 from fantastic. There were a few tweaks the the graphics which are noticeable, and the length of 
 the game is decent. If you want to play a game that is a bit slower paced, give Neverwinter 2 a 
 try and this expansion is worth picking up for the price. I'm not a huge fan of Bio Ware, but I 
 did enjoy D&D, Forgotten Realms etc. and I do feel that Neverwinter 2 does give the franchise a 
 small bit of justice bringing it to the pc scene, more so than the original Neverwinter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: y_roland
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 8, 2008 6:46 am PT
Review:  I'll begin by saying that I never played the original neverwinter nights, my sole experience of 
 the game comes from the NW2 and this expansion pack, and so far i've played both many times and 
 enjoyed every second of it.
  
  This expansion pack features some new classes, spells and so on, which bring a nice additions to 
 an already complex game, making it worth it to go through the single player of the original NW2. 
 There are some drawbacks however, you'll notice that the fights you get into are either incredibly 
 easy or insanely hard at some points.
  I've heard also people complaining about the spirit eating mechanic and, yes, it IS very annoying 
 the first time through (certainly annoyed me) . But i noticed at my second and third runs through 
 the game that once you know how it works it's not big deal, I even came to like it as it forced 
 me to make more strategic choices concerning the spells I used, the class or multi-classing i followed 
 and most importantly when to rest. During my first NW2 run, i used the rest mechanic every one 
 or two fights, this forced me to drop those habits that eventually spoiled the fun of the game, 
 making it too easy.
  However this mechanic can really be either annoying, hateful or just plain fun, but regardless 
 you shouldn't let this spoil such a great game.
  During the course of the game you'll get far fewer companions than you got in the original NW2 
 which is positive in some ways as the game often forced you to take some characters with you and 
 it could make some parts hard if your main character was the wrong kind of character. You'll also 
 noticed it's much easier to get attached to these characters as you can learn to know them much 
 better (besides who can't love the mighty rainbow bear) . And you're actually rewarded for doing 
 this as getting enough influence gives you feats.
  The storyline is also more satisfying than the previous game as it's much darker and murkier, you 
 really get the feeling you're caught in something vital.
  
  All in all this is a great game that shouldn't be missed by any who like the original NW2.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: baileybaileys
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 2, 2008 10:59 am PT
Review:  The Good: Very nice to look at. There are some interesting side quests, and the main plot is engaging 
 for the most part. The evil ending is one of the best I've ever seen. The game borrows some elements 
 from HOTU. I liked the soul quests in Thay, and I really enjoyed some of the NPCs.
  
  The Bad: The romances left something to be desired. They could have been worked out more. The difficulty 
 level was somewhere around eight year old child. A one armed monkey stuffed full with a six pack 
 of Red Bulls would be able to complete this game start to finish. 
  
  Note: The spirit meter was a minor issue for me. I really didn't have any major issues with it 
 the first time through, but it does force the pace. After the first play through, it did get to 
 be a bit irritating as I wanted to play more casually.
  
  Conclusion: Buy the game for the story... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dvdre
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 13, 2008 6:23 pm PT
Review:  Neverwinter 'Mask' is a fantastic game, but to really enjoy it, and to have a great time playing 
 it ... you must take my one, huge spoiler-ifique advice. DISABLE THE SPIRIT-EATER STATUS. Good 
 lord, just enjoy this game. There is only one cheat ... ONE ... you need. (rs ka_se_terminate) ! 
 ... Once you do that one task (after you have become a spirit eater) you can play this fantastic 
 game without the blip, blip, blip of the spirit-eater curse. If you disable it, you can still play 
 the game in its entirety, including cases where you need to use spirit eater powers. The spirit 
 eater stuff is the most annoying add-on to any game I have ever played. Once you get rid of it, 
 Neverwinter 2 Mask is truly fantastic. I looked forward to this game day after day, hour after 
 hour, right down to the finish. I love the volatile essence thing, using those pieces to really 
 build up your armor and weapons. This isn't a buy-and-trade game. It is more about creating your 
 stuff, picking your partners, choosing your way. 'Mask' is absolutely fantastic, minus the constantly 
 annoying spirit-eater crap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Emilyek_1
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 6, 2008 6:28 pm PT
Review:  Classic cRPGs like BG or Fallout or NWN ultimately come out of the pen-and-paper DnD craze of the 
 late 1970s and 1980s; but they overcame a PnP basement-dwelling ethos right out of the box.
  
  And while NWN1 and NWN2 (less so) escaped the darkness of that dungeon, MOTB is a return to 
 those origins and then some. It's a sort of oddball trip to the Land Before cRPG Gaming Time.
 
  
  It is downright wonky, through and through.
  
  The tech is outdated, the writing and dialogue is simply unbearable, and the touted 'spirit eater' 
 mechanic, central to MOTB, is a game-breaking nuisance.
  
  MOTB feels like a polished, but not particularly inspired (or at least falsely inspired) , user-made 
 mod.
  
  But MOTB has two things going for it.
  
  One is the core class and gameplay mechanics that the DnD ruleset brings to it; the DnD system 
 is rich and incredibly complex and intellectually satisfying.
  
  The second is the single spark of creativity from Obsidian, to be found in party make-up: your 
 in-game friends can include some (literally) colorful characters. Nothing they have to say is particularly 
 interesting (they too can be rather annoying in terms of how they are written, as well as how they 
 are coded to behave) ; but it is a rare and admirable thing that your group is not limited to NPCs 
 you could have whipped up yourself on the creation screen.
  
  And that's all that really needs to be said about MOTB, a game that is scored way too high by critics 
 simply for its pseudo-Biowarian pedigree, although one could go on about the horrible inefficiency 
 of of the engine, the smashed-keyboard-inducing camera, the generally bad world construction and 
 poor design choices.
  
  Did I mention the positively insufferable dialogue?
  
  Or the insipid story?
  
  Let's hope Zehir is better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Panos83
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 29, 2008 9:15 am PT
Review:  I am going to be harsh with this expansion... When I started the game, I spent around 30 minutes 
 to edit the camera settings and make it look like the default of Neverwinter Nights 2. The default 
 camera angles of NwN 2 weren't ideal but I used to them and didn't have great issues in gameplaying 
 or serious complains to make. So, it's a very bad idea to introduce a brand new default camera 
 angle which is, by far, the worst I have encountered in any 3D RPG.
  
  Right from the start of the game you 'll notice that you're not the almighty knight captain you 
 used to be in the original game but a weak adventurer in a mysterious, dark and unknown world who 
 depends from his companions. The whole atmosphere of this new world is very dark and unfriendly... 
 So, the expansion is not kidding at all, actually it's very challenging from the very beginning.
 
  
  The graphics of the game are improved -no silly bugs anymore and more alive color palette- the 
 music and all the characters voices/acting are amazing and the new companions are extremely interesting 
 and far from cliche. A female red wizard from Thay, a female celestial paladin with wings, a male 
 spirit shaman and a huge spirit bear-god (!) definately aren't the usual suspects to follow you 
 in any RPG. So, forget your standard dwarves, orcs and elfs "friends" here and that's cool.
  
  But, very soon I encountered the new ideas which turned me off from the game... Like the shadow 
 plane idea... At night you can find portals to travel through worlds... No, not new worlds but 
 an alternative version of the area you are into... All are turned into black and white and there 
 are new enemies (spirits, skeletons and other dark creatures) to face. The point of it is that 
 from there you have access to places you can't get into from the normal world and later in the 
 game you can eat (!) spirits. For me it's just a lame idea to make the expansion longer and I suspected 
 that it has influences from the Legacy of Kain/Soul Reaver series... 
  
  From act II it was gameover for me... Because you have that spirit eating curse... You have two 
 choices, to eat spirits/souls or surpass your hunger. A spirit meter bar appears (if it drops to 
 zero, it's game over) and that's when the RPG fun stopped for me. You haven't the time to explore, 
 talk, browse/edit your inventory, check your stats and rest. So from act II NwN 2 : MOTB is turned 
 into an action game and the only thing you have to worry about is that spirit bar... This new feature 
 along with the shadow plane idea assured me that all these are total rip-offs from the Legacy of 
 Kain/Soul Reaver series. So we're talking about a vampire game, without originality and definately 
 not a pure RPG.
  
  So, at least for me, the creators tried too hard to create something epic, extremely dark and memorable. 
 With all these new features they managed to turn this expansion into an action game and not a RPG. 
 I believe that NeverWinter Nights 1 had better expansions without changing the concept of the original 
 game and managed to add that epic feeling without trying too much for it. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vorcoth
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 12, 2008 3:24 pm PT
Review:  The same fantastic graphics as NWN2. The same solid gameplay, including some new race/class/prestige 
 class options. Add in the "Epic-Level" options for playing a character that's higher than 20th 
 level, and there are some really fun customization options.
  
  Unfortunately, they didn't stop at better plot/advanced character customization.
  ------------------------------
 
  Gameplay Positives: I love the added playable races, classes, skills, feats, prestige class options, 
 epic-level stuff. The storyline is also very mature and engaging. The advancements in the adventure 
 editor toolset are also quite excellent. Inter-planar travel is interesting, but heavily over-used.
 
  
  Gameplay Negatives: I was upset by the fact that the game does not take place in and around Neverwinter. 
 In fact, much of the game doesn't even occur in the Forgotten Realms. Instead, you'll spend the 
 lion's share of your time on the Plane of Shadow and the Fugue Plane. I miss my castle!!
  
  The cast of NPC's available to form your party is rather lame. After having the choice of about 
 10 NPC's in NWN2 to form your team from, MotB drops that number to 4 (only 3 of which can be in 
 your party at any point in time) . It also felt like they were trying to justify an epic-level campaign 
 in this aspect as well. Instead of making interesting NPCs, they made uninteresting NPC's but gave 
 them weird races. A hagspawn, a bear spirit, a disgraced angel, and a clone. In addition, they 
 don't even represent all of the character classes very well. You'll have a choice of wizard, sorceror, 
 priest, fighter. My main character was a priest, which means there was no rogue in the party. The 
 wizard's familiar had some rogue skills, but they were horribly lacking in comparison to a full-blown 
 thief's abilities.
  
  Graphics Positives: The same excellent atmosphere as NWN2 but with some added colour and polish. 
 Very nice.
  
  Graphics Negatives: The camera controls suffer terribly indoors, often forcing you to keep your 
 party members as far back as possible in order to keep them from obstructing your view as well 
 as obstructing your ability to click on things in front of you. Plus, having the party members 
 that far back makes them take longer to get into a fight.
  
  Sounds Positives: The usual excellent voice acting and music that Bioware is becoming known for.
 
  
  Sound Negatives: None
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: An interesting story, but they tried too hard when it came to the setting and 
 NPC's. Far too outlandish. It barely felt like the Forgotten Realms setting at all. NPC's, setting, 
 and indoor camera are where the game loses points in my book 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smerlus
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 30, 2008 8:46 am PT
Review:  Even though I've had Neverwinter Nights 2 and its expansion, Mask of the Betrayer sitting around 
 for ever, I recently got to playing through them and beating them. After numerous months and patches 
 I could safely say that Neverwinter Nights 2 is better than the original in almost every aspect. 
 What I can say about Mask of the Betrayer is that it has an even more compelling story, more fleshed 
 out party members but sadly feels just like a mere expansion pack.
  
  The box of Mask of the Betrayer says that the engine runs smoother, there's less loading times 
 and generally the game looks. I believe that but I also have to say that the game didn't function 
 correctly until the release of a patch or two. Even then, just like the full game it builds off 
 of, MotB tends to suffer from quite a few glitches and bugs. Sometimes AI just stops being intelligent, 
 when a character is rendered unconscious, it's turns into something more of a coma because only 
 a save/reload brings the character back to life and the camera gets caught up in some cut scenes 
 rendering them nothing more than characterless talking as nothing important ever comes into view. 
 None of these are game breaking but they are a little disappointing to see on a PC game that's 
 been on the shelf this long and still has good support.
  
  MotB introduces a gameplay element that is either love it or hate it and ties directly into the 
 story. So it kind of makes it hard to talk about certain abilities but I can do a quick run down. 
 All of act I builds up the story to a point where I had more questions than answers. It seemed 
 my hero from NWN 2's main quest was now looked down upon like a leper and all sorts of spirits 
 and magical creatures wanted to kick my hide. This culminates at the end of Act I and blesses or 
 cursed my character with a spirit meter. This spirit meter is a bar that runs vertically on the 
 screen and has a score of 1 - 100 with five or six markers on the side that represent certain points 
 that if the score drops below, the character gets a bit of a deduction to stats. This meter is 
 constantly decreasing, unless you're engaged in a conversation, and if ever totally drains, the 
 character dies.
  
  Now to determine how fast it is drained, there's a meter that runs horizontally below that that 
 shows how much you've given into this hunger. The more you try to satiate it, the faster it decreases 
 so there's the conundrum. Your character is given a bunch of initial abilities to try to cope with 
 this newfound power, but all of them are temporary solutions. If you use provoke spirits to piss 
 of nearby spirits so that you can use your devour spirit ability, then your meter will be high 
 but it will also drain faster. If you decide to use the suppress hunger feat, then you only get 
 a slice increase to your meter but your meter decreases slower. Oh and you can't use both of these 
 feats in the same day, but you can use devour spirit 10 times a day but suppress only once.
  
  Some people claim that the addition of this gameplay element turns MotB into a fragfest which 
 is totally untrue. If you remain calm, you'll never have to play outside of your character for 
 any reason. However the party members that join in on the quests in this expansion tend to work 
 against some character types and let me explain. My character is a rogue/shadow dancer/assassin, 
 and as such, uses his skills of subterfuge to sneak up on enemies and do massive damage to them. 
 While my character is hidden, it tends to leave the other party members visible to attack and they 
 have to survive the front of every assault. That's fine and dandy if MotB didn't stick me with 
 a bunch of magic users. It does so I'm stuck micromanaging Mage types and learning how to juggle 
 spells which is not something I wanted to do. I didn't want to have to consistently tell each character 
 where to go, what spell to cast, when to heal, just to keep all of the party alive or standing 
 after a battle. I just wanted to be an evil rogue.
  
  Conversely these party members are much more realistic and likeable than the original game's party. 
 Sure there's no dwarf that made me laugh time after time but there was a cocky, half hag, male 
 that was more sarcastic than even myself, there was a very helpful female Red Wizard that is also 
 a possible love interest in for a male character and also a celestial cleric that was a little 
 more lacking in personality but still pretty likable. On of my decisions created a final character 
 who was a mass of evil spirits but was classified as a rogue. Also that creature was only visible 
 to my main character rending any spells cast by my mage types useless for the simple fact that 
 they can't target what they can't see. I didn't end up using him at all but the creation of that 
 character was very interesting none the less. Only if my main character was a fighter class in 
 need of a rogue, then I would have used him more.
  From the title you can decifer that the story has something to do with a betrayer, and from my 
 review there are a lot of spirit and magic involved also. You toss in some God's of death, love, 
 witches, hags, and faith and you get a meticulously crafted story that does all of these topics 
 and plotlines justice. My character was chaotic evil and while I could have played him a little 
 bit more evil, the game was enjoyable with the decisions I made.
  
  Everything else in Mask of the Betrayer is just like it was in the original Neverwinter Nights 
 2 with the addition of a few spells, character types, races and feats. There are Epic levels available 
 for some classes but this addition wasn't as all encompassing as the previous Neverwinter Nights 
 expansion. Sadly I saw that my Assassin and Shadowdancer classes were left out of the epic range 
 forcing me to stop advancing in those types and leveling up more in my rogue class.
  
  MotB does something totally innovative and does it fairly well adding a great feeling of necessity 
 and urgency missing from most RPG's. I'm sure this ticking time bomb won't be a positive aspect 
 for everyone but it did make the game very interesting even with the additional difficulty added 
 by the mage types. Obsidian shows once again that they can craft an epic story, amazing characters 
 and fumble a little bit on gameplay and glitches, but if you overlook that then you'll be met with 
 one of the most intriguing stories from an RPG in quite some time.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: crzycespy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 16, 2008 8:25 pm PT
Review:  I was skeptical, as always, of a high level expansion. There is no more "Ooo, Ahh" left. Well pft 
 on that. Black Isle, I mean Interplay, err, or Obsidian, got it with this one. 
  
  I had a couple places where I snagged, and thought the game was bugged, but it was really just 
 my own idiocy at missing things.
  
  Wonderful story, near lagless at near max settings on my mid level gaming rig (Probably a 900 dollar 
 build now) . I missed the "Keep" management, but was pleased they left the old crafting system in 
 place, along with an updated version.
  
  If you are like me, and gave up on NwN 2 when you hit level 15 and frame rates dropped to 7 on 
 your X800, or 7800, try it again from scratch. Do it now. It made me put down "The Witcher", and 
 I still have not even opened up the "Twilight Princess" for the Wii (Though that tennis game it 
 comes with is another story) .
  
  Anyway, great game, install fresh, and actually have fun at epic levels in DnD 3E point whatever 
 they are on now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raskolnikov_usa
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 1, 2008 4:15 pm PT
Review:  Wish there could be another expansion, I have really enjoyed playing this expansion and only wish 
 that there was more content. The story line for me was suprisingly interesting, and the scenery 
 was enjoyable and creative. The items in the game could have been better, and more visualy pleasing. 
 Load times suck, but maybe it is partly the fault of having a mid range PC. The character AI for 
 your companions is not great but good enough to get by with. Also the influence aspect of the game 
 is pretty cool, and definatley encourages me to want to play this game again as well as try out 
 the new races and classes. DONT READ THIS BLAH REVIEW JUST PICK UP THE GAME AND PLAY IT MOST LIKELY 
 IT WILL BE A GOOD EXPERIENCE. Also if you feel like there should be yet another expansion with 
 ohh dragons and demons to fight. I did hope for another Dragon fight like in the Neverwinter Nights 
 2. Oh well. IM A SATISFIED GAMER. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: totalgridlock
Rating: 9
Date: May 23, 2008 12:17 pm PT
Review:  Mask of the Betrayer is the first expansion pack to role-playing epic Neverwinter Nights 2. It 
 was developed by Obsidian Entertainment, also the makers of the parent game and sci-fi favourite 
 Knights of the Old Republic II. This fairly substantial pack follows in the footsteps of those 
 games, providing the excellent adventure we have come to expect from this studio.
  
  I think that Mask of the Betrayer offers what is probably one of the best adventures in a Neverwinter 
 Nights game so far. While you can continue using your character from the main campaign and there 
 are a number of references to that story, the expansion storyline is somewhat set apart from the 
 events of the main game. At the outset you are whisked away to far-flung Rashemen, with a whole 
 new world of adventures awaiting you. It's a nice way of getting a fresh slate and an easy opportunity 
 to introduce a bunch of new characters, all of whom are infinitely more interesting than most of 
 those from the original campaign. There are five new characters  all of whom are optional  and 
 your dealings with them are much more personal and tied into the storyline in a much more intricate 
 way than in previous adventures. The plot itself is quite dark; without giving too much away the 
 basic premise is that you have been afflicted with a curse placing your soul and everyone around 
 you at risk. You become a character to be feared, and your quest to unravel all this takes you 
 all over  from cursed forests to the Plane of Shadows to the City of Judgement. It's a pretty 
 riveting adventure.
  
  Obviously gameplay remains much the same as its parent game, but Mask of the Betrayer does introduce 
 a number of new features, additions and refinements to the system. The most obvious is the addition 
 of Spirit Energy  a mechanic directly linked to the curse mentioned above  which, while granting 
 many new feats and useful abilities, is as often much more trouble than it is worth. It's the nature 
 of having a curse, I suppose, but this is one aspect of the game that takes a while to get used 
 to and can often result in a modicum of frustration for the player. There's nothing quite like 
 having to prise yourself away from your current objective in order to go eat spirits for a while 
 to regain your strength.
  
  The other additions to the gameplay include many new character options  new races (Genesai, Wild 
 Elf, and Half-Drow) and new classes (Favoured Soul, Spirit Shaman and five new prestige classes) 
  and an extension of the upper level cap. Your characters can now reach epic levels, topping out 
 at level 30. All excellent ways to develop your characters however you see fit. The companion influence 
 system has also been overhauled, making it much easier to gain (and lose) enough influence to directly 
 affect in-game events.
  
  Mask of the Betrayer has made some changes to the graphical aspect of the game, specifically the 
 camera angles. The game now provides two new selectable camera modes  including an action-adventure 
 over-the-shoulder style and a way-the-hell-overhead strategy style  which both have their practical 
 and aesthetic uses. The rest of the graphics remain much the same, the Electron engine still looks 
 great for the most part and occasionally downright stunning. With Mask of the Betrayer and the 
 later patches for the parent game fixing most of the interface issues from the initial Neverwinter 
 Nights 2 release, graphically this is still quite a looker.
  
  Voice-acting and music are once again very good. There's never a point where you want to turn your 
 speakers off  sadly a too-common occurrence in many games  rather, there were a few points that 
 made my ears perk up a little. Once again the developers have assembled a strong voice cast; perhaps 
 other studios should take note.
  
  I think it is obvious that where most publishers use expansions as an excuse to squeeze more money 
 out of the consumer for little content, Mask of the Betrayer instead gives you rather more bang 
 for your buck. Far more refined than most main games (let alone expansion packs) , certainly chock 
 full of enhancements and additions and most importantly, a campaign that could easily take up to 
 25 hours if you take the chance to explore and complete additional quests.
  
  It is still buggy however, with at least one show-stopper about halfway through. If you're not 
 one for console tinkering, you might want to wait until another couple of updates roll out, which 
 shouldn't be too long based on Obsidian's track record with the main Neverwinter Nights 2 game.
 
  
  There's little left to say, other than  despite the bugs  this is definitely the best official 
 Neverwinter Nights content to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lovely_beauty
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 21, 2008 7:52 am PT
Review:  I'm not surprised to see so many different opinions about this game from previous reviews. Yes, 
 this one can be rated 9.0 or 6.0 and none of these are totally wrong or right. In my opinion, Motb 
 really makes an effort to diversify the original and some of its changes are good enough while 
 the others can frustrate many players. 
  
  Let's talk about the storyline of the game. I don't agree that it's "ridiculous" like some people 
 say. Of course you feel totally different from the original. The atmosphere is intense and there 
 are no longer funny dialogues. But this change can be very interesting consider the fact that you 
 gain many new companions, all well designed, and you now start off as an epic hero, not an unknow 
 character like in NWN2. It's also open ended, allowing you to choose between sacrificing yourself 
 or being selfish. I think the ending is satisfying for a game like NWN 2, since the choices are 
 different enough from each other and reflect 2 paths: good or evil.
  
  The most important change in game play is the spirit eating system. In this point, I must confess 
 that I myself become quite frustrated. This feature really spoils the game play because it brings 
 about nothing other than making us lose concentration on the good RPG aspect of the game. It's 
 like a timing system spreading from the beginning of chapter 2 to the end of the game. All the 
 time players feel urgent and have to do everything in a rush out of the fear of running out spirit 
 energy. Too bad the developer give you no option to get rid of this curse. And also, you can't 
 really play evil path any more because if you try to use your spirit eating power too much you 
 will become so horribly addicted to it that there is no time to do anything else other than sucking 
 soul or you will end up dying.
  
  Other changes in game play are minor and doesn't have much effect. You can play several new races 
 but none of them are especially well designed to fit a specific class. The new classes in the game 
 are fun to try but they are not too much different from existing ones. There is only one good thing, 
 that is , the game now have much more puzzle along with combat, and some situation can be solved 
 by either way. This makes Motb looks more like an adventure game, saving you from getting bored 
 of hacking all the time.
  
  The new camera option can also cause some dispute. Since Motb offer new perspective that allows 
 you to micro your group more easily, it's obviously a good intention. But the matter is that they 
 make this the default option and this camera mode make it difficult to remember your orientation, 
 so you may feel somewhat uncomfortable at first. But this doesn't really matter because you can 
 return to tracing mode like in the original any time in the game.
  
  Last but not least, graphics in this expansion seems smooth. I no longer suffer the frame rate 
 trouble like in NWN2. Such a good fix should be highly appreciated. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wait321
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 31, 2009 8:52 pm PT
Review:  This was one of the most disappointing sequels I've ever played. The gameplay is almost identical 
 to the original except for this soul-eating thing that's more annoying than anything else. The 
 difficulty in the game was way too low, especially if you have a really well designed character 
 like I did. I didn't even have to use a potion to pawn groups of spirits.
  
  I was also disappointed in the game's decision to ignore the previous characters. I won't spoil 
 anything, but the only character from the original game is the one that I liked the least. Why 
 even bother starting a new romance when I've got such a deep connection to the original characters?
 
  
  The siege on the city of the Gods and ending was just pathetic. I was looking forward to grand 
 battle, but, instead, got a battle between 10 units. They didn't even let me tear down the wall! 
 What was the point of the story with a pathetic ending like that?! I didn't fight my way to the 
 city of the Gods just to give up after winning and go home! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blurrypixel
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 15, 2008 11:55 am PT
Review:  What's to like:
  - Complex story
  - Access to many class / skills / powers
  - Epic role
  - Interesting puzzles
  - Interesting story toward the end
  - Good replay-value
 
  - Good looking world
  - Good epilogue
  - Great voice-over dialogs
  
  What you may not like:
  - Not really a sequel, you don't continue with the NPCs from NWN2
  
 - This RPG has a timed bomb (spirit hunger) so you can't take your time
  - Not clear as to what needs to be done at times (journal is a must)
  - You are forced to complete 
 quests in a way that you wouldn't normally do
  - You often are missing dialog lines you would go for
  - Fights are scarce
  - Weak music 
 
  - No humor
  - You can't do in the ending what you wanted to do for your companions
  - Characters look much older
  - So-so character models / equipment look
  - Terrible romance
 
  - Terrible lip sync
  - Terrible camera
  
  
  Story - Deja vu.
  
  Remember in the original game how you start with some interesting sword shards in you that you 
 need to find out about? Well this one is recycling the same idea but since the sword shards were 
 already used, this time it's a spirit-eater, and that is no good news.
  
  
  Game - You're on the clock!
  
  One fundamental change in the series is the addition of this 
 curse (spirit-eater) . The curse, basically, was added to keep players from resting all the time 
 (so that they couldn't cast their strongest spells all the time) . And while at it, incorporate 
 it as the main story line.
  
  The curse is manageable. But that's exactly the problem, you have to manage it.
  
  RPGs are 
 meant to be explored, in this one, if you linger too much, you will be more hungry and then you 
 will start to panic over where / who you should consume to appease your craving. This will have 
 the negative effect of wanting to cut the exploring short.
  
  Quick tip:
  There is a way to get around it. If you travel between 2 locations and use the suppress skill non-stop, 
 you can fill it to full. This way you don't need to worry about it as much. 
  End of quick tip.
  
  Still, that is just a very very bad design for those that actually like 
 to explore and enjoy a world. As far as I'm concerned, it totally sucked all the fun I could have 
 had during the whole second chapter; it turned it into a chore.
  
  Fortunately, if you manage to get through the first two chapters, the last one will come as a pleasant 
 surprise.
  
  Without revealing too much about it, the last chapter is a lot more enjoyable mostly because there 
 isn't as much to explore and the clever story will unravel itself in a very epic and satisfying 
 way.
  
  
  Combat:
  You now have access to the "epic" levels, i. e. 18 to 30.
  
  Those extra levels come with some really cool spells and features (like an Epic spell that turns 
 everyone to a bunch of chickens! Oh, and the change is permanent, so you don't have to kill the 
 chickens, but who wouldn't) .
  
  You also need to wisely choose how to upgrade your characters or you will find some of the encounters 
 quite challenging. On the other hand, if you max your AC (armor class) , this can get a bit trivial 
 for a melee class, like a Monk.
  
  In addition to the already powerful character features, you will be able to customize your armor 
 and weapons with the spirits found in the world. 
  
  Know though that you can go through the game without doing so, but some will appreciate the extra 
 damage to leverage some of the more tougher fights.
  
  
  Companions:
  The type of companions are really different than the original. It goes to say that you won't be 
 continuing with the same ones found in the original. This can be very disappointing for some if 
 you were really attached to the more colorful characters of the original version.
  
  Though, if you haven't played it, or didn't connect much with them, you will probably like the 
 ones in this expansion as they are considerably more... stable, if not monotonous. There is little 
 to no comic relief but each of them have an agenda that seems to be more noble or greater at least 
 than their predecessors.
  
  
  Conclusion - Hit and miss
  
  If you were one who really enjoyed the original (NWN2) , you might find the lack of continuation 
 disappointing. 
  
  On the other hand, if you have no expectations and think you can get over the Curse, NWN2: MOTB 
 is not a bad game to add to your D&D collection.
  
  At least you get to kill some chickens with a meteor swarm.
  
  
  7.2/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brendruis
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 31, 2008 7:03 am PT
Review:  I picked this game up recently via direct download. I played the first NWN and NWN2 and enjoyed 
 them both, and thoroughly enjoyed this expansion also.
  
  The story begins with the same protagonist from the Neverwinter Nights 2 original campaign, a circumstance 
 that doesn't always occur in expansions. The glowing shard implanted in your chest has been surgically 
 removed, and you awaken with a bloody hole in your body. Your adventure unfolds from there, as 
 you discover a curse that has befallen generations of your ancestors - a shadowy being that lives 
 in your soul and seeks to devour it.
  
  The story revolves largely around spirits and the afterlife, which wasn't appealing to me at first 
 but the game's excellent scripting helped draw me in. I do not wish to spoil the story, but you 
 are presented with choices and consequences and a rewarding sense at the end.
  
  Mechanically the game uses the Infinity engine which allows you to pause the game and 'plan' out 
 your strategy with your multiple characters and then the action will unfold in real-time as you 
 unpause it. There is also a new camera mode in Mask of the Betrayer, called Character Mode you 
 can select it using the "*" key on the Numpad. However, I didn't find that I preferred this mode 
 to the traditional Neverwinter Nights camera... In fact, I think it has a main drawback in that 
 it is a third-person view from directly behind the character, not over the shoulder... which directly 
 obscures the camera's view from a large portion of the environment.
  
  The extensively tweaked version of the Aurora engine used by Obsidian runs very well after a ton 
 of diligent patches by the company. Even at high resolutions you should be able to get a great 
 looking game with equally great framerates (with an appropriate video card, of course) .
  
  Overall, with a few disagreements about the story and camera, I only detract 1 point from the score 
 and give this expansion a 9.0 out of 10.0 . Remember, I am judging this game as an expansion not 
 a full retail game as it does require NWN2 original game to play. As an expansion, especially among 
 RPGs it is absolutely phenomenal. Go and buy if you like CRPGs...
  
  If you don't own Neverwinter Nights 2, then go and purchase it to play the Official Campaign, and 
 then move to the Official Expansion Campaign... Now that is about 100 solid hours of D&D fun :)
 
  
  (PS: This is a D&D RPG and if you have never played on you should begin on Easy difficulty... or 
 tread lightly on Normal and save very often)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: narc100
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 14, 2008 8:18 pm PT
Review:  I did not like NWN 2 much (and NWN 1 even less) . It seemed to consist of easy game-play, linear 
 story and dead (but quite nice looking) surroundings. All in all it gave me the impression of more 
 of a tech upgrade (which it was) , with the campaign as an afterthought. 
  Because of this, Mask of the Betrayer (MotB) really surprised me. It has improved on the original 
 game-play experience so much that it has restored my hope for NWN 2s future. 
  
  First of all the game is well balanced. In the original campaign i could just ram through a dungeon 
 door without saving, and then just hack my way through the opponents with melee , spells being 
 an afterthought . In MotB you have to use actual strategy to win a lot of the fights , and not 
 a few of them are quite challenging and will have you on the edge of your seat. 
  Of course near the end of the game you end up with some quite powerful characters (level cap i 
 30) and this reflects on the last chapter of the game, which seems to lack the same challenging 
 combat seen previously. 
  Since i have struggled with similar problems in the Pen and Paper version of D&D, im prepared to 
 give the developers some leeway here. 
  
  The MotB campaign is much better written than any of the previous official products in the NWN 
 franchise. Main story, dialogue and Non Player Characters have been given considerable thought 
 and artistic expression. The NPCs (the main ones) feels much less like the archetypes of the OC 
 and more like defined characters , and it is interesting and satisfying to converse with them (though 
 they could have been given a tad more 
  dialogue ) . The main PCs dialogue-options are also more nuanced than your standard good/evil/neutral 
 replies. Sure all these options are still there, but every so often the game presents you with 
 more "mature" (as in complex) conversation.
  The writing also asserts itself in the story of the campaign which is epic in scope, centering 
 around curses, feelings and deities. It's all handled quite well and is complex enough to surprise 
 you a few times without being incoherent. 
  
  The quests are interesting and makes sense, and while there isn't many side quest, those there 
 are feel like they are worth exploring and are often tied to the main story in some manner. Best 
 of all there are multiple ways to solve the quests and dialogue (and appropriate skills) is as 
 relevant to finishing quests, as combat ability is. 
  Key moments in the campaign gives you choices that will affect the rest of the campaign. Im not 
 sure about the effect these choices have on the ending of the game, but nevertheless MotB features 
 several different endings , and those i have seen seems fulfilling and appropriate.
  
  The spirit eater curse (aforementioned curse which is focus of the game) works well story-wise, 
 but is not always easy to deal with in the game. It took me some experimentation to get the hang 
 of it, but it works well enough if you remember how to use it correctly (alternately , you could 
 just cheat and remove it entirely, if you are seeking a more standard D&D experience) . 
  This mechanic and the sometimes incomprehensible D20 system may make it seem too hard, but once 
 you get the hang of it the game flows well. 
  
  The game takes place in Rashemen (a barbarianesque wilderness) , which is a nice departure from 
 the standard fantasy of the Sword Coast. It reflects itself in the look and feel of the game, which 
 has a more raw feel to it than the dull looks of the city of Neverwinter. There are trips to the 
 countryside and other exotic locations, and they all seem to have been getting the right amount 
 of attention and that makes them seem worthwhile to explore.
  I would argue that there isn't enough houses to rummage through (even if you aren't playing as 
 a thieving scumbag, its nice to know that the option is there) , those there are, are usually tied 
 to a side quest to some degree. 
  
  All in all, i am quite surprised to see the giant leap Obsidian (by far their best product yet) 
 has made from the OC in NWN 2 to the campaign in MotB. Their attention to detail and story can 
 be felt on many levels of the game and proves that NWN 2 can be a really great game. I recommend 
 it to everyone who's is looking for a game with a rich story, interesting characters , good combat 
 and multiple quest solution. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jsgx3
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 12, 2008 6:52 am PT
Review:  This is a good value overall, although I did not enjoy it as much as the original. I am a bit unusual 
 in that regard as I also liked the NWN 1 OC. Basically, I like good vs. evil plots with the standard 
 clichs of Elves good, Orcs bad etc. What the heck is wrong with that anyway? I think the majority 
 of players actually like this as well. It is probably the reason most plots in RPGs revolve around 
 those kinds of things. I am mentioning this because many people (reviewers) have gushed about the 
 'dark' mood and 'adult' plot of MoTB. That was not a selling point for me; in fact it was a detractor. 
 What does this have to do with this review? Lots, because it really skewed my enjoyment of what 
 was an honest effort that fell a bit short for me. First, I'll start the good. Everything was designed 
 well, and because I played this a few months after release the patches had things mostly bug proof. 
 (I did run into one where the quest broke in regards to the souls in the academy but I saved it 
 by 'cheating' with the console) . Voice acting was nice, cut scenes were decent, and things were 
 pulled together well (for the most part) to include great interaction with NPCs which is really 
 one of the strengths of this game series. Plus, all the new content is great, but more on this 
 later. Now for what I didn't like as much; small areas and few side quests, and although the game 
 played for about 15-20 hours (I am slow and methodical) it seemed much shorter, or perhaps not 
 'epic'. Actually small areas are not that bad a thing, I've played many use created modules with 
 small areas but lots of them which still felt epic. I did not care for the story overall, or more 
 specifically it really left me not caring in one way or the other. I had a hard time getting into 
 the fact that I had been torn from the area of the OC, yet there were still some connections, I 
 found the various scraps of information and the one character I met form the OC to be grudging 
 inclusions as if someone on the dev team politicked to have some kind of connection to the OC and 
 was only grudgingly allowed to include those items. Basically they felt a bit awkward and out of 
 place. Thanks for including Ammon Jerro, but without controlling him, leveling him etc, who cares? 
 Even the ending really doesn't explain how the various characters even knew about your character. 
 I understood the 'why' of what they did, but 'how' did they know about events thousands of miles 
 away? What was the connection? OK, now for the 500 pound gorilla in the room, spirit eating. First, 
 let me get back to the new content comment from earlier as it applies here. I think the content 
 of the spirit energy bar is going to be used in player created modules to great effect; I can imagine 
 all kinds of scripting opportunities to bend that tool to very cool uses, much like the improved 
 influence mechanics. That being said; the fact that my 'good' character had to 'eat spirits' really 
 gave me a bad case of the arse. This relates to my earlier comment about 'dark' moods and 'adult' 
 moral dilemmas which seem to be the rage of the vocal minority but I find them to be boring. Gray 
 scale is every day; I want to be good guy (or bad) in my RPGs. The spirit eating factor was almost 
 a deal breaker for me, and I tried, I really did, but when I got to -5 or whatever, after trying 
 to suppress and do the 'good' thing I realized this is not for me, so I consoled it and pressed 
 on after considering stopping. At the end of the campaign, my Chaotic Good character was Lawful 
 Good and there seemed no way, short of eating a few spirits here and there, to keep him CG. That 
 was annoying. In fact, the execution of this supposedly great gray scale RPG turned out to be black 
 and white after all. You basically ended up a Chaotic Evil soul slurper, or the Lawful Good president 
 of the soul protection society. And with a plot like this, how could it be any other way? Overall, 
 it was enjoyable and worth the money which is the bottom line, but more importantly I am excited 
 to see what the community will do with the new content. When's the next expansion? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Krucipher
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 3, 2008 7:20 am PT
Review:  WOW!
  I noticed the difference immediately after I started playing.
  The graphics were better and the overall look and feel were great.
  There are still some annoying 
 problems with the camera system, though.
  I played NWN, and both of the expansions +CEP, to death. And I loved it.
  But, NWN2 left me a 
 little disappointed. Not a bad game, but not the "GREAT" game that I expected. Now with the MotB 
 expansion it is a lot closer to a GREAT game.
  The whole "Spirit eating" thing took a little getting used to, but the more I play the more I like 
 the concept.
  The available companions are cool. How can it not be cool to kick ass with a giant bear by your 
 side!
  I especially like the available weapon/armor crafting bonuses that you can implement using the 
 essences. I have one weapon that is +8, 6D6 fire/3D6 electrical/3D6 cold damage. On most hits it's 
 doing around 75 points of damage. I've seen critical hits around 160!
  This is a huge improvement over the base game. I can't wait for the next expansion.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lbholt
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jan 1, 2008 1:55 pm PT
Review:  I don't know how this game gets such high reviews from other raters here, except they must be playing 
 at much lower difficulty levels. I have always enjoyed playing at the hardest difficulty level, 
 and this series has provided countless hours of entertainment and enjoyment.
  
  But for this game, who the heck came up with the Spirit-eating idea? This is the lamest thing I 
 have ever seen in a D&D game, and completely ruins the game. After the introduction of the Spirit-eating 
 gimmick, the entire game is dominated by the need to either consume nearby spirits or develop the 
 "Surpress" skill, which is also a real joy.
  
  For those of you who buy the expansion pack to play *real* D&D-type stuff, forget it! The rest 
 of your game will consist of "Spirit-eating" (a really stupid concept in the first place) and all 
 of your D&D gameplay - the reason you bought the pack - will be secondary, or maybe even third-ary, 
 since you are constantly looking for spirits to consume thereafter.
  
  Certainly, I could look for the cheats that make this problem disappear. I have already read all 
 the guides that I find available which describe the concept of "Spirit eating" to see if there 
 is one redeeming value to this idea and I can find none. But honestly, this is ridiculous. This 
 unnecessary, needless addition to the game, which we already enjoy, is a deal-breaker for me, and 
 I have shelved it in disgust. My recommendation is to spend your hard-earned gaming dollar elsewhere. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: limraz
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 27, 2007 8:49 am PT
Review:  NW 2 was a pretty straightforward game, almost easy until the end. Mask of Betrayer present himself 
 with a high level of difficulty, even at normal, and some good/bad features :
  
  The good
  - Interesting storyline and new places/characters
  - Less bugs
  - Good graphics
 
  
  The bad
  - Strange XP choices -- for example you get 328 XP killing Ivan Borski in Shadow Mulsantir and 
 more than 400 for the weak merchant in the sloop. Believe me Ivan and his goons are really tough, 
 nobody put me in real danger until now ( I am inside Thay academy for the moment) .
  - Spirit Eater -- a mechanical failure since you never now how much meter go away while resting 
 or travel. Its really boring to watch him all the time, when the micromanagement of this game is 
 already cumbersome with tons of spells, skills, sidequests, etc. I really doubt that a real adventurer 
 will bother with so many feats, spells and skills because is impossible to have/train so many.
 
  - Fighting - after a while the fights become real boring and killing monsters/spirits just to 
 achieve new levels is old. Make some quests than let you achieve the next level grace to your wit, 
 background or completing sidequests in a certain order. 
  
  So - so
  - The world of Rashemen look way to empty sometimes and the maps real small
  - Influence with 
 companion - I am afraid to say that they don`t have a interesting evolution in time based on your 
 choices (good, evil, neutral) . All they do is to criticize, but no argument why you should change 
 or what rewards they can give for doing something different.
  - Monster/spirits - after a while is boring to see/fight the same baddies. A better choice is to 
 use specific monsters/spirits for different areas/maps .
  
  In the end I think Mask of Betrayer is a good game, but not tested properly with people who love 
 games, not playing as a job. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ihminen
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 15, 2007 3:11 am PT
Review:  (MINOR SPOILERS!)
  The spirit-eater status thing and special abilities were so amazing and done with great detail, 
 good and evil stand out in this expansion. I only hated one character, Safiya, she was so annoying 
 the whole game and she was a red wizard. Gann was the best character since he had a great voice 
 actor, very good lines and he was so sarcastic all the time. The camera shocked my at first but 
 then i made it the same as NWN 2. Mass Fowl was funny at first now its just to make creeps easier. 
 The lvl 30 cap had me worried before this was released but it turned out alright. The plotline 
 was amazing, never thought Okku would join up with you if you didnt kill him. The beginning was 
 a solid base for the expansion, left me no holes between ending of NWN 2 and expansion. I also 
 liked that they made it so even if you hadnt played NWN 2 you could still find out what happened 
 during the barrens. The end battle was very cool but Akachi should have been harder. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fastpunk
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 2, 2008 7:27 am PT
Review:  The Neverwinter Nights (NWN) series hasn't been the best so far. The first game had a forgettable 
 campaign and the two expansions offered only slight improvements. The sequel brought significant 
 improvements to the campaign mode but lacked polish and its online experience wasn't quite up there 
 with the first game.
  
  Enter Mask of the Betrayer (MotB) , the first expansion for Neverwinter Nights 2, a release that 
 changed the name of the game for the series. If past games were mostly linear adventures with plenty 
 of dungeon crawling (maybe too much) , this time, developer Obsidian Entertainment focused more 
 on the quality and consistency of writing, on adding plenty of role-playing opportunities and on 
 new game mechanics. So how did this expansion turn out? Read on!
  
  1. D&D 3.5:
  MotB uses the D&D 3.5 rule-set, which means that things like character creation, leveling up and 
 combat are quite complex. Obsidian added some new races, classes and spells but the most significant 
 addition is the new resting system. In NWN2, resting was something you could do almost anywhere 
 and for as many times as you liked; you would just wait for 5 seconds and your character was fully 
 healed. In MotB we are back to the resting system of old, where you set up camp and wait for several 
 in-game hours. And to make sure the player wouldn't abuse of this new resting mechanic, Obsidian 
 limited it's uses by adding the Spirit Eater mechanic, but we'll talk about that later. The expansion 
 takes place exclusively in the epic levels of D&D, which means more powerful builds, plenty of 
 loot, tougher enemies and larger XP rewards. The effect of all these changes is obvious, the game 
 feels more challenging and better balanced. Combat requires more effort and even exploration requires 
 a bit of planning, so I'd say Obsidian did a great job.
  
  2. The setting:
  And so we say goodbye to the Sword Coast, to its political intrigues and to its ancient evils that 
 lie in wait for their grand awakening (and grand defeat at the hands of a hero) . Instead we travel 
 east, to the land of Rashemen, home of great spirits, witches, hags and the famed rashemi berserker 
 warriors (remember Minsc from Baldur's Gate? ) . Thay is also nearby so expect to meet the famed 
 Red Wizards too. The people in Rashemen are different, they have different beliefs, traditions 
 and social structures. It's a lovely change of pace to be honest, nothing beats experiencing something 
 new, something different. This is definitely one of MotB's strong points.
  
  3. Role-playing:
  Mask of the Betrayer offers so many choices along the way that you definitely 
 need to play this game at least twice to fully explore its content. But choices without consequences 
 equate to nothing and MotB has consequences for every choice you make. The majority of dialogs 
 put your Diplomacy, Bluff, Intimidate, Spellcraft and Lore skills to good use, not to mention your 
 character's Wisdom. There's always more than one way to do things in this game, but the great news 
 is that each way has its own consequences. Some might be obvious but some are well hidden and come 
 as a surprise. Let me give you an example (without being too explicit) . One NPC will task you with 
 finding some tomes that might help him achieve great power. You can help him but you can also sabotage 
 him or even kill him. You make a choice and continue playing but at the end you find out that this 
 particular NPC plays an important role in the future of one of your companions... so the choice 
 you made determines, indirectly, the fate of your companion. The game is littered with this sort 
 of subtle stuff, it's a surprising experience and definitely begs to be played more than once.
 
  
  4. Story, writing, and story-driven game mechanics:
  MotB's story picks up where NWN2 left off... well, sort of. Those who've played the original campaign 
 know how tragic the ending was, so it's a bit of a mind-bender to start MotB in a cave in distant 
 Rashemen. But answers will come in due time so don't despair. The Sword of Gith has been taken 
 from you and so has the Crystal Shard from your chest. But that's not all, you soon discover that 
 you have a rare condition the rashemi call 'spirit-eater'. So off you go to find a cure and some 
 answers. What you'll stumble upon is nothing short of grand. Also, I can tell you right away, don't 
 expect to travel with your old companions, they're out and new ones are in. The old ones were great 
 but I like the new ones better, it's ultimately a matter of taste though. They're fewer but more 
 unique. Also, the writing in this game is top-notch, I haven't seen writing this good since Planescape: 
 Torment, and that's very high praise indeed. Everything from dialogs to narration to item descriptions 
 to lore is absolutely great. Obsidian have also brought something new in terms of game mechanics, 
 a sort of consequence of the story itself. It's a thing called the Spirit Meter. Since you are 
 a spirit-eater you will need to feed from time to time in order to survive. This keeps your spirit 
 energy high. So what's stopping you from going crazy and eating every spirit you encounter? Well, 
 eating more will increase your craving thus making your spirit energy drop faster. It's like being 
 addicted to a drug: the more you consume, the more you crave. Of course, you can also choose to 
 suppress your hunger thus reducing you craving and making you energy go down slower. One last thing: 
 if your meter is almost empty then you have no choice but to use your Satiate ability, which, at 
 the cost of some XP, refills the energy meter and reduces your craving. As you might have guessed, 
 both approaches have advantages and disadvantages but be warned: traveling and resting lowers your 
 spirit energy so it's wise to plan ahead. Now, I've heard many people complain about this little 
 mechanic and to be perfectly honest I don't see why. It makes you plan your steps, it stops you 
 from abusing of stuff like resting and it balances the game overall. It's not like it requires 
 you to bend your mind to understand and manage this meter, so live with it! That's the beauty of 
 this situation, your character is cursed and you get to role-play that; the curse is not just a 
 thing mentioned in the story but also an active element of the gameplay.
  
  5. Some things MotB didn't get right:
  One thing that doesn't work in this game is the camera. 
 Obsidian switched to a two-mode control scheme but neither mode works too well. Like with NWN2's 
 cam, it constantly needs adjustments and it 'feels' a bit clunky. Also, the combat can get chaotic 
 and a bit confusing at times. Don't get me wrong, it's decent but there's room for improvement. 
 Also, I found the Influence system a bit too transparent. Every time you increase your influence 
 with a companion it specifies the amount of influence points you gained. I'm not against getting 
 a notice every time I gain influence but knowing that saying X made my influence increase by 11 
 points and that saying Y made my influence increase only by 6 points makes some dialogs predictable, 
 not good in my book, but I'm sure some people like this. Me, I don't like the extra feedback.
 
  
  6. Some tech-related stuff:
  The Electron Engine used by MotB is pretty good looking although it's not top of the line tech. 
 The thing that makes the game look more appealing is the creative use of color and sfx. For example, 
 you will travel to a shadow plane that's almost devoid of color, while other places like The Sunken 
 City will have a particularly dreamy feel because of all the water pouring from the walls and the 
 weird colored lights. Actually, every major area has a color theme and it makes the game feel very 
 atmospheric. Never underestimate the power of color. Of course, sound is a very important part 
 of the experience as well, and MotB excels in this area too. The voice acting is excellent and 
 the music is a delight, I wish they'd publish the soundtrack because it's just beautiful. NWN2 
 was a pretty demanding game and although MotB is much better optimized, you still need a pretty 
 good PC to run it. Don't even think about using 512MB RAM cause the loading times will kill you, 
 not to mention the stuttering. Once you upgrade to 1GB or RAM things improve considerably. In terms 
 of CPU and GPU the game isn't that demanding. Everything mainstream will do just fine, even certain 
 low-end parts will do the job as long as you have a 2.4GHz CPU and a capable Shader Model 2 compliant 
 GPU with at least 128MB of on-board memory. And speaking of requirements, you NEED to have NWN2 
 installed in order to play this expansion, it's not stand-alone.
  
  7. Conclusions:
  MotB made a powerful impression on me. It's the type of experience that transcends entertainment 
 and goes further. It has some flaws but they feel like nothing when compared to the quality of 
 its writing and atmosphere. It's not exactly easy to pick up if you have no previous experience 
 with the genre, but after a romp through the NWN2 official campaign you should get the hang of 
 it. And if you already have NWN2 then you owe it to yourself to buy this game. Mask of the Betrayer 
 is a must for any gamer who's serious about his RPGs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Meemtyke
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 6, 2007 9:47 pm PT
Review:  This game is pretty good! Really! I've just finish it, 2 minutes ago and I can say that the story 
 is really good. If you're a D&D 3rd edition lover, this is the ultimate game for you! The graphics 
 are not the best on the market, but when the gameplay and the story are there, you can't complain! 
 And, in the first one, it was really easy because you could sleep when you need it. But here, with 
 the curse, you need to think about your next move. There is some minor bug in the game, but they 
 are so small in comparaison of the whole game!
  
  
  Long live to NWN2 MoTB! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kroich
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 1, 2007 12:32 pm PT
Review:  Oh yeah, I know, Neverwinter Nights 2: Mask of Betrayer has a very interesting twist in the main 
 game's storyline, but I sincerely don't see much of a connection between the expansion's story 
 with the main game's. I see the same character and sometimes a phrase or two about his past, yes, 
 but what about Neverwinter, the Knight-Captain and all he has done? Because all that is said about 
 his past achievements is too shallow! Has even the city from the game's title been forgotten? You 
 will feel like the protagonist is Akachi and not you, and that is very disappointing...
  
  And there is the spirit-eater mechanism SURELY eats you alive, literally and metaphorically. Compared 
 to the main game, the map is too small and the characters that join you are not very interesting 
 like the ones in the past...
  
  Another issue is the difficulty: if you don't find the "rare and exotic weaponry" that gamespot 
 mentioned (I didn't) you will have to cheat or try and try again and again... Rashemen is indeed 
 an epic scenery, but too loose for a sequel to the Sword Coast hero's story, because in Rashemen 
 even the weakest pirate can make the Knight-Captain look useless. So what? You CAN keep training 
 to reach a high level character so you can search for better weapons, right? Right, IF you want 
 to play a boring level-up-only game.
  
  Some say that the game's camera is irritating, but I changed some options in the menu and it turned 
 out that the camera became simply the same one from Neverwinter Nights 2, so I don't see any problem 
 with that.
  
  What I DID liked was that the game has two endings, but that also has a problem for me, because 
 none of the endings were interesting enough so I could be satisfied.
  
  So a lot of things in NwN2: Mask of Betrayer WOULD be great if they were put in a independent game, 
 not as a sequel for one of my favorite games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mazena86
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 1, 2007 12:13 pm PT
Review:  After my many problems with Securom and the original Neverwinter Nights 2, I had mixed feelings 
 about this expansion before purchasing it. I was wondering whether it would be worth my money and 
 time, and would it offer enough extra content to keep me content. Let's say that I grabbed this 
 game from the store, because there was nothing else interesting at display at the time. I'm glad 
 to tell you that the risk was well worth it.
  
  The original NWN2 had a long story with lots of characters for you to choose from. If you ask me, 
 it had too many - I want to know everything about my companions and dragging everyone along was 
 a pain. Also their backgrounds weren't fleshed out as much as I'd hoped. We must thank the developers 
 since both issues have been answered here.
  
  The story kicks off as you wake up underground surrounded by weird runes. At first the story feels 
 like nothing special, just something that the developers pulled out of their hats to make some 
 cash, but as the story unfolds you see what makes this expansion pack so special. The story is 
 a lot less linear and there are a lot of side quests you can spend your time on. The game's box 
 promised me 25 hours, it resulted in something nearly 40 hours. Then again, I'm moderately slow 
 at reading because I want to read everything carefully and understand every word and connection.
 
  
  This time around you'll actually know what happened to you and your companions, no frustrating 
 cliffhangers here (but still room for some more stories) . I know of at least two endings in the 
 story, both were rewarding, but I preferred the more goody good ending. After that one, it felt 
 like I had done something great and selfless.
  
  You have a lot fever companions, but they also have much more deeper stories behind them. They 
 aren't just your normal elves and dwarfs either... We're talking about celestial beings, hagspawns 
 and spirits here. Not that I ever played with the spirit though, but it's still possible. The reason 
 I didn't play with the spirit was because I had become attached to the previous companions and 
 didn't want to miss anything from them. They're just that much fun. Also the voice acting for the 
 companions has improved, and it was never bad in the first place - unless we're talking about Casavir, 
 damn I hated that guy. And that reminds me, you will also gain knowledge of the fates of your old 
 companions.
  
  The level design team must have really been looking at what the community has been doing with the 
 toolset when they use more than just a dash of imagination. The new areas look just beautiful. 
 Each area from the Astral Planes to snow covered garrisons have been given a great deal of dedication. 
 There are small details everywhere and sometimes you just want to sit back and watch the view. 
 Of course, to enjoy the views in their fullest potential, you'll need a pretty high-end computer 
 - even though the team has optimized the engine to run better even on the lower end machines. There 
 are even a couple of new eye candy features that are a nice touch.
  
  What really bothered me with the original NWN2 was the old soundtrack from the Neverwinter Nights 
 1! I felt pretty abused and bored to listen to the same tracks I had listened countless times in 
 the first campaigns and in many community mods. This time around they brought in a whole new original 
 soundtrack, and I couldn't be happier about it. Every score is new and feels fresh - though sometimes 
 the music feels a bit too... silent? Still, a big thumbs up here.
  
  Gameplay is pretty much the same. You have a new camera angle, which reminds me of The Witcher 
 actually. I never used that too much, I prefer the strategy view in all situations. Well, there 
 were a few exceptions when I wanted to see the roofs of some buildings or the ceilings of a cave. 
 The biggest change in the gameplay is the Spirit-Eater curse. Here you will have to devour spirits 
 or suppress your hunger or you will grow weaker. At some points it seemed like a burden, but mostly 
 it was just something to keep you from resting all the time. Since if you devour too many spirits, 
 you will become addicted to feeding and you'll need even more spirits to satisfy your hunger. So 
 you'll have to plan what you do, there may not always be spirits for you to feed on close by.
 
  
  For the builders, this expansion is a goldmine. There is just so much new content. New textures, 
 lots (and I mean lots) of trees, enemies, placeables etc. Some new scripting features and the new 
 soundtrack are welcome additions too. I can't really wait to get my hands on the toolset and that's 
 why I must bring this review to it's grand finale soon. Not that it actually is anything grand, 
 but it's a finale nevertheless.
  
  With that everything said, Neverwinter Nights 2: Mask of the betrayer is an expansion that surprised 
 me positively. It told a story that was deeper and darker than its predecessor. Some choices you 
 have to make in the game are not easy, but that's not how it's supposed to play out after all. 
 You get so much content here wether you're just a casual gamer, roleplaying fan or a modder. You 
 get to experience the epic tale of the Betrayer, it's something you're not likely to forget anytime 
 soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warpld
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 30, 2007 1:30 am PT
Review:  Now that was an experience I did not expect from an expansion pack, especially after the somewhat 
 disappointing Neverwinter Nights 2. However, Mask of the Betrayer manages to correct all its flaws 
 (with only two notable exceptions) and adds so much more depth to the experience.
  
  The most obvious change from the previous adventure is the whole setting itself. The story is much 
 more sinister and grievous. It is told much better (there is a story teller this time and when 
 you realize who that is in the end, it will send a shiver down your spine) . The story itself escapes 
 nicely the typical cliche. Trying to save the land from yourself while feeding on the essence of 
 others to sustain yourself for me ranks as high as being an immortal soul who follows a track of 
 leads left by himself in his previous incarnations in order to uncover the truth about his existence. 
 And speaking of shivers, you will experience those several times when separate plot threads combine 
 with a slight hint of what is actually going on and suddenly you realize the whole picture. As 
 I said, the story is just marvelous.
  
  However, the story itself would not have been enough to create the depth this experience has. Much 
 more believable NPCs and companions through who the story is told supplement it. Characters around 
 you have FATES and you get to care about them. Those fates feel close because they are grim which 
 makes them somewhat realistic. Even when following a good path and ending the game in a good way, 
 the aftermath for one of your good companions will be a most terrible and tragic one. Throughout 
 the expansion pack, you will learn what happened with your companions from the original Neverwinter 
 Nights 2... and nothing good happened to them save for three of the characters. Thankfully Grobnar 
 was not among them. Furthermore most of the characters are not entirely good or entirely evil - 
 a zealous good-doer angel who would destroy the very foundations of faith with its ignorance; a 
 demilich seeking godhood, who you will have to trust forced by circumstances; witches who repay 
 your services with delusions; pious revolutionaries who double-cross you the second you finish 
 their dirty work. The list goes on.
  
  Apart from the story, some other aspects of the game have been made more serious. Resting for example 
 is no longer trivial and you will quickly learn not to do it automatically after every battle. 
 It actually advances the clock now, it does not heal stats damage and your new friend, the spirit-meter, 
 will make resting and travelling real hell for you. The mechanics of the spirit-meter make it hard 
 to manage but that thing exactly adds a nice feeling of urgency and doom to your quest which helps 
 you get sucked in the game.
  
  Locations have also been enhanced. While I cannot vouch that graphics have been really improved 
 in terms of textures, details, effects, etc., all the places you visit are much more alive.
  
  The whole presentation ends fighting a foe who, while not looking impressive, is actually so 
 tough my fight with him lasted a good half hour without the reloads.
  
  It should also be noted that all the glitches in Neverwinter Nights 2 are gone and one plays the 
 game smoothly without fear that savegames have not been backed up a whole half an hour. A few minor 
 bugs are still present, but none of them could ruin your experience.
  
  With all that said, Mask of the Betrayer should have received a whole 10. It has two noticeable 
 shortcomings though. First, it is obvious that the developers strived to improve all aspects of 
 Neverwinter Nights 2. In that, they made worse an already terrible feature of the game - the camera. 
 It takes several hours before one starts getting used to the camera controls and they will remain 
 an impediment throughout the entire game. Second is that AI of your companions is as dreadful as 
 ever. Not a single improvement here and even more issues arise with pathfinding as Okku is a large 
 object.
  
  These, however, are really a small price to pay for the most captivating hardcore role-playing 
 experience in years. The ending left a feeling in me that I have felt only twice in my history 
 of gaming - once when the child of Bhaal was judged by the higher planes and second when an elder 
 vampire was staring at the distant Pillars of Nosgoth after defeating a god. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anofalye
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 25, 2007 9:20 am PT
Review:  The new characters are interesting.
  
  The storyline is fun.
  
  But when I stumble on the spirit-meter; I stop playing right there. Nothing else matters.
  
 
  There is a big, glowing, spirit-meter, that becomes THE main gameplay of the game, everything 
 else is dim and unimporting.
  
  How such a mechanic was ignored by the playtester is beyond me.
  
  Either they have no good 
 play tester left... or they tell them to STFU with it and analyze the remaining aspects.
  
  At any rate, a good tester should have refuse to analyze anything else beyond the spirit meter 
 and told them it was gamebreaking, cause it is game breaking.
  
  Thinking it is easy to ignore... It is becoming the MAIN GAMEPLAY. If you don't like it, you are 
 jammed with it, for evermore. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A_Viper
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 1:39 pm PT
Review:  Firstly, I'll admit that I'm biased - I love the Neverwinter Nights franchise. I've got all the 
 expansion packs, played through adventures multiple times with different character classes and 
 seen most of the possible outcomes of quests. I really cannot get enough of the franchise. So I 
 was real keen to get involved in Mask of the Betrayer! I enjoyed it, though it didn't leave me 
 as fulfilled as I'd hoped.
  
  The game follows on immediately from the events of the original, with your character (or a new 
 character that can be preset to level 18, should you so desire) , waking up in a cave under the 
 ground many miles from the scene of the final battle of the original game. The various plot strands 
 and menacing nature of your environment really draw you into the game at the start - you feel lost, 
 confused and desperate for answers. I found this really enjoyable and drove me on to try and make 
 sense of what had happened. Indeed the whole story is laced in epic mystery, answering questions 
 with more questions until eventually presenting answers that overwhelm. There's a few neat twists 
 along the way too.
  
  As I said, the game is set in a totally different environment to the previous games, and sees you 
 dealing with different creatures, terrain and cultures. This is a breath of fresh air that keeps 
 the overarching plot engaging and adds to the game's mystery. There are plenty of characters to 
 meet from the various new racial types, including new playable races and classes. The game takes 
 you into "Epic" character levels, and as such there are various elite character classes each with 
 their own strengths and weaknesses. Personally I didn't find the new classes that great, but that 
 is not to say that you won't either. 
  
  The story is far darker than that of NWN2, which is a good thing. While I adored NWN2, the gameplay 
 does benefit from a more sinister plot, much as the twisted plot of Hordes of the Underdark added 
 to the NWN1 experience. Mask of the Betrayer introduces new allies that can join you in your adventure, 
 though this time they have their own agenda's. So if you continually disregard their suggestions 
 and desires, and don't help them with their own quests they may abandon you. You may also discover 
 the fates of some old friends along your journey, which I was very happy about. With the two games 
 being so well scripted and engaging, it is hard not to develop some attachment to the characters; 
 creating this care and drawing the player into the adventure is really what sets this franchise 
 apart from rivals.
  
  During the course of your adventure you'll return to the Shadow Plane, which is rendered far better 
 in this game than previously seen in any NWN game. The realm is presented in a darkened black and 
 white, full of sinister backdrops that create an unsettling feeling - it is far more believable 
 than its previous incarnations. Its denizens are a bit more menacing and bizarre this time out 
 too.
  
  The gameplay is entertaining, featuring puzzles to break up the fighting. None of the puzzles are 
 overly taxing, though they do make you think and feel integral to the plot development. The weakness 
 of the gameplay comes in the addition of the spirit-eating curse that your character will be struck 
 down with. While this offers some rather neat powers, it can also significantly weaken your character, 
 so it tends to dominate your thinking during gameplay. This is frustrating, as I found myself worrying 
 about my decreasing spirit energy instead of fully exploring and appreciating the games rich environments 
 and quests. It does provide an interesting new challenge, though the game would benefit from it 
 not being such an integral part.
  
  The graphics have been tweaked for the expansion pack, and while they are still a little below 
 the expected standard considering the heavy system requirements, it is still a beautiful game. 
 I didn't experience any bugs in the game, however in one effect-laden environment did see some 
 slowdown in performance. This was a one-off though. The in-game camera can get a little frustrating 
 too, as it rarely remembers the angles that you have it set to when you exit buildings. This is 
 a frustration, but it is not a major issue.
  
  In all, I enjoyed this game's dark story, engaging characters and exciting adventure, however it 
 didn't feel quite complete. I think this is predominantly due to the overpowering spirit-eater 
 curse that has a tendency to dominate your thinking during gameplay. Also, aside from the curse, 
 the game isn't especially hard. Don't let these put you off though; if you enjoyed Neverwinter 
 Nights 2 then I'm sure that you will find Mask of the Betrayer an enjoyable addition to it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tennisttw
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 12, 2007 12:41 pm PT
Review:  This expansion to Neverwinter Nights 2 addresses some of the main problems with that game, and 
 provides one of the best D&D stories to come along since "Planescape: Torment".
  
  First, the negatives. NWN2 and this expansion look great with all the graphic bells and whistles 
 enabled. Unfortunately, you probably need to spend about $10,000 on your computer to get hardware 
 good enough to do that. I would bet that 95% of the people using this game will be turning down 
 some of the features to get better frame rates which is disappointing. And the game can go from 
 gorgeous, to ordinary, to downright ugly depending on what you have to disable to make it playable.
 
  
  This expansion has addressed some of the annoying aspects of the camera positioning that plagued 
 NWN2. However, it is still not perfect, and the plethora of options can be confusing with 2 different 
 modes each with several options to enable/disable. Once you pick a mode and tweak it and become 
 used to any quirks, it is really not bad. 
  
  The gameplay is excellent and compelling. There is an added gameplay element that some will find 
 annoying that requires you to be careful about how often you rest. I found it added an interesting 
 element to the game and fit the story nicely, others will find it just annoying. I also felt there 
 is an area of the game you explore early on that requires you return much later in the story. However, 
 that is not at all clear to you at the time and you may find the game quite tough if you spend 
 too much time realizing essentially there is nothing to do but come back later. 
  
  Now onto the good stuff. The story, characters, gameplay and dialog in this game are TOP NOTCH. 
 Unlike NWN or NWN2, you'll find yourself really intrigued by all of your companions. They are each 
 very unique and, perhaps because they are "epic", have extremely interesting back-stories, personalities, 
 motivation, and interaction with your main character. There are fewer NPC's than in the original 
 game, but each one is fascinating and very well integrated into the main story.
  
  While a lot of the choices in this game fall generally into good/evil, you always feel that your 
 actions and choices have great influence on your companions, your alignment and the story in general. 
 You also get many more chances to use skills like Lore, Wisdom checks, Intimidate, Bluff and others 
 that offer some interesting dialog interaction options for nearly every encounter.
  
  The storyline, diverse D&D rule set, great selection of races, classes and feats make this already 
 satisfying game have tremendous replay value (much more so than prior NWN single player offerings) .
 
  
  If you enjoy single player RPG's (as I do) , love good stories, or are a D&D fan, Mask of the Betrayer 
 is an absolute must. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: S0crates
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 10, 2007 7:15 am PT
Review:  Overall, this is a big step up from the original "Neverwinter Nights 2." NN2 suffered from the 
 inclusion of tediously immature one-dimensional characters, junior high school-caliber dialogue, 
 and a fairly rigid plot line that good or evil actions would alter only in superficial ways.
  
  "Mask of the Betrayer" is much more mature and sophisticated. The plot is vaguely reminiscent 
 of high-caliber fantasy novels such as the Robert Jordan series. The characters are mature, sophisticated, 
 and complicated, each with their own unique (and not always clear) agenda. The choices you make 
 when conversing with them can improve or damage your relations, which is tracked by an "influence" 
 meter, and then the degree of influence you have with them determines how much they are willing 
 to divulge in the future. And of course you can't please everyone all the time, because each character 
 has their own m. o.
  
  I don't want to give too much away, but the game also introduces a new and challenging gameplay 
 concept that increases the richness of the game. My favorite PC RPG of all-time is "Planescape: 
 Torment," and (here I'm only guessing) I wouldn't be surprised at all if some of the people involved 
 with that project were also involved with "Mask of the Betrayer." I'm only about halfway through, 
 but I've already had much more fun playing this than the entire NN2. They estimate about 20 hours 
 of gameplay, but I've already gotten more than that out of it by doing a lot of exploring, conversing, 
 and inventory management. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rengetsu08
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 10, 2007 6:19 am PT
Review:  This review's rating is the best out of 10 score:
  
  Graphics - (10/10) For the Motb have improved thier graphics problem, like: NWN2 original game 
 not supporting some other graphics card, also with the problem that you need to play this game 
 in a much more higher engine.
  
  Sound - (7.5/10) Sound for me for this game have improved overall, however when it come to charactyer 
 voices they don't improved at all, like what game players experienced with the original game in 
 the final part where in the narration is odd, where in the atari and other Nwn2 developer sure 
 to have in a hurry to finish the game where in they just hire any person just to narrate the game.
 
  
  Gameplay - (7/10) i was going to rate the gameplay a 8 out of 10, however because of the spirirt-eater 
 option, i have to make score it 1 point lower. I really don't enjoy the spirit-eater option, maybe 
 because im playing nwn2 in what i really want it to play
  
  Timespend - (7.5/10) I was enjoying the game in the 1st chapter but because of the spirirt-eater 
 option at the end of the chapter, i really don't play that much anymore. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sridanu
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 5, 2007 9:29 pm PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying that i am a huge fan of RPG games and that the original NWN2 was a bit 
 of a let off for me due to wide array of bugs within it. And because of that my expectations of 
 NWN2: MOTB was not too high. But having finished the game i now hold a completely different opinion 
 about it.
  
  Compared with the original the expansion is a huge improvement. Better graphics, Better Music and 
 hell of a lot better adventure element brings back the true RPG experience that was missing in 
 the original. And the fact that almost all of the bugs that were present within the original have 
 been fixed was a huge relief for me. The biggest downside for me was that the game was just too 
 short for me to enjoy completely. And although there are a few new classes and prestige classes 
 available all of the new ones just seem like a combination of the existing classes. There are some 
 aspects of the game play also that was a bit of a let off But explaining those in detail may turn 
 out to be a bit of a spoiler for some.
  
  Overall the game is a absolute must for gamers who love RPG's. The game may be short but every 
 second that you play is absolutely worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DennisKumfi
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 5, 2007 2:34 pm PT
Review:  Well, this is how I like my RPGs. Tight storyline, crapload of races, classes and equipment.
  
  MotB improves upon NWN2 in several ways.
  
  Plot:
  
  The story tighter than the first 
 time around. It's also is a lot darker and more tightly knit; reminds me of BG2 (fond memories 
 here) . Companions are also a lot better that in the original in terms of chracter development and 
 conversation. I mean, a multicolored bear - what's not to like?
  
  The Shadow Plane and dream walking is a fun design element, but admittedly they could at times 
 have done more with it.
  
  Interface/Camera:
  
  Finally a camera that isn't utterly frustrating. Some people don't like it, but I for one think 
 it has improved a lot.
  
  Also, there finally is an option that always lets you see dungeon seilings. Nice to have for people 
 who disliked the black voids that were NWN2's roofs.
  
  So, yeah, this is fun, if you don't mind epic gnolls. :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Redsoul92
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 3, 2007 6:24 pm PT
Review:  I never guessed that after what Neverwinter Nights 2 was the expansion would present a totally 
 different style of game, isometric view, lots of well built dialogues and a long and consistent 
 storyline. The game makes me remember old RPG's like Arcanum, Fallout, Baldurs Gate and most of 
 all Planescape Torment. The game presents a whole new bunch of classes and multiclasses, also there 
 are many NPC's and the game keeps some good quality graphics.
  In other words, Neverwinter Nights 2 Mask of the Betrayer is a game that some people will find 
 very interesting and some others will find that it is not their type of game.
  I guess I never expected a game like this coming from a game like that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evangelikk
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 3, 2007 5:29 pm PT
Review:  First let me just say that I am a veteran RPG player, and cut my teeth on games like Fallout, Planescape: Torment, 
 and Arcanum (ok, pseudo-veteran) . There has been a rash of games released these last few years 
 which can be summed up generally with the following characteristics: Linear. No meaningful consequences 
 or choices. Uninspired combat. Extensive preoccupation with ensuring the player cannot be subject 
 to anything challenging, and that he is carefully guided so everything is made fantastically obvious. 
 In my mind, examples of these faults are manifest supremely in the recent hit ES4 Oblivion (quest 
 compass, combat consisting of two total attacks + spells + block, potential to be head of all guilds, 
 complete linearity (quest-wise) , level-scaling, boring story, no choices, next to no dialog) . I 
 played NWN2 when it was released, and found it almost unbearably dull. Long, linear dungeon crawls 
 with waves and waves of monsters, few dialogue checks (that actually mattered, most just triggered 
 the same dialogue anyway) , and worst of all a plot that was the very essence of cliche (you thought 
 everything was cool, but Hey! I'm actually the Chosen One, here to defeat a great evil (tm) ..... again! 
 ) . I'd read the developer news before the release of NWN2, and I recall comments espousing it's 
 virtue and likeness to Planscape. So I was disappointed, and was not looking forward to MotB. On 
 a whim (and in the throes of boredom) I decided to pick up a copy of MotB to kill a few hours. 
 Let me just say this: Whoa. This game is incredibly good. I don't mean in light of the droves of 
 poorly designed Diablo clones and simplified semi-rpgs released in the last several years, it was 
 good . I mean this is one of the best games I've played, ever. That fact that I'm writing this 
 review (something I never do) is testament to my respect for the game as well as it's designers. 
 That being said, there are a number of bugs and issues (most of them minor) that I have encountered 
 thusfar. But first, the good (mostly, anyway) : Graphics: Nice designs, good spell-effects, interesting 
 layouts, and well drawn stills during loading screens. I'm not a big graphics person, so I'll leave 
 it to the aficianados to make that call more in depth. Text floaters are used to flesh out the 
 environment, which is just great. In my opinion, some of the written (dialog box style) descriptions 
 were better than any cutscene graphics could possibly have been. Sound: Very good. The atmospheric 
 music isn't overly dramatic, which is something I always hate (over-dramatic music) , and which 
 inevitably makes me laugh when I'm supposed to be all hyped up for battle. Much of it has a dark 
 theme, and is perfect for the environments. Very good EAX effects, birds, wind, crickets (great 
 crickets!) , and creepy stuff in the Shadow plane/tombs/etc. And you did something that I have often 
 wished for in other games: multiple combat music tracks. Well done! Hearing the same song for 30 
 hours makes you want to power attack your speakers using your face. Let me also point out that 
 I found the title music very reminiscient of PS: T, much to my delight.
  
  Combat: Same as in NWN2 OC of course, which I don't feel strongly about one way or the other. I 
 prefer the ToEE combat system, but naturally that is a different animal entirely. One thing I feel 
 would be beneficial is a collect all button ala Sacred. In single-player, it is a bit irritating 
 to walk around after large battles going click, loot. click, loot. click, loot. I don't see how 
 collect-all would be harmful to the gameplay. Of course this option would not be allowed in multiplayer.
 
  
  NPC Interaction: Here is where this game positively shines. The influence system, which was irritating 
 in the OC, is pulled off in MotB with a vengence. *MINOR SPOILER* Gaining influence with Kealyn 
 by lying (Bluff skillcheck) and simultaneously with One of Many (for the deceit) is one of a great 
 many example that springs to mind. *END SPOILER* The abundance of skillchecks, many of which have 
 a significant impact on the story/quests/party is something sorely lacking in any recent RPGs . 
 As a sidenote, each time I used a dialog line that seemed especially suited to my personal sense 
 of humor, I gained influence with Gann =) I can't wait to replay with a good character just to 
 see what lies down that path.
  
  Another benefit of the dialogue mechanics is a benefit intentionally removed from a game like Oblivion, 
 as opposed to, for example, Fallout: You cannot complete all questlines with a single character. 
 You make decisions, and those decisions open some doors while closing others. This is awesome as 
 hell, and pleases me to no end. It makes the game longer than it literally is, since I am already 
 eager to replay it. Two (or more???) games in one box. Now that's what I call worth 30 bucks .
 
  
  I was scornful of NWN2 for it's weak dialog after reading a developer comment (before the release 
 of NWN2) about how the writing would be on par with Torment. With MotB, I have no choice but to 
 admit that the writers have come fairly close to doing just that.
  
  Performance: Runs smoothly on my rig (AMD 4000+, 2GB RAM, 7800gts OC'd) at 1024 provided shadows 
 are set to medium. Loading times seem to be increasing as I play on, but nothing too bad.
  
  Interface/camera: Usable, but it felt a little clunky to me. Also, and this may be a bug, but 
 in my game (in strategy mode) , moving the mouse to the left or right sides of the screen does not 
 turn the camera as described in the options, even with the scrolling option disabled. This means 
 I have to use the center mouse button to rotate, which is worse for me than the camera in NWN1. 
 It seems that in places the camera is locked too close to the characters for my liking, and could 
 be easily remedied by an option in the menu.
  
  
  
  The Bad:
  
  I have encountered a few bugs and several minor inconveniences, none of which are game-breaking 
 but are still bothersome none the less.
  
  -In the last fights of the round-robin combat in the Ice Troll Lodge, killing the final opponent 
 with a spell that does damage in stages (magic missile, flame arrow, missile storm) causes that 
 opponent to continue attacking after the combat is over, even though you cannot fight back (dialog 
 icon appears when moused over) .
  
  -In the Ice Troll Lodge, taking the ice-water test wiped out my quickbars (fixable, but as a sorc 
 with 5 bars mapped, it was annoying) .
  
  -I also encountered a bug that equipped one NPC with my PC's gear (thus duplicating all the PC's 
 items while losing the NPC's gear completely) , which was obviously a seriously bad thing. Thankfully 
 I noticed it before I saved. Note: I have NOT been able to repeat this bug.
  
  -A few CTDs while loading new areas, but this is pretty rare.
  
  -Moving an item from a magic 
 bag to your inventory causes the bag window to scroll back to the top, making it a larger task 
 than it should be to move many items quickly from bag to inventory.
  
  -Items must be moved from magic bags to inventory prior to selling said items.
  
  -Items cannot 
 be moved directly from an equipment slot to another character's inventory or into a bag.
  
  -A detailed information page in the character screen would be a huge benefit. As it is now, you 
 have to check each item slot/spell buff to know what your deflection AC is, and it is harder than 
 it should be to compute your save vs. mind spells after gear/spell buffs. It would be nice to have 
 all the details available in a dedicated space.
  
  -You cannot scroll the information window while in dialog. Allowing this could be useful to review 
 what has already been said whilst in dialog, and I cannot see any drawback to permitting this option. 
 My guess is that the dialog window is frozen to keep the character from interacting with the environment 
 during dialog, which I can understand.
  
  -It doesn't make sense to me that when using magic that can only effect the caster, you have to 
 target her anyway. Why make me click myself, when I cannot use the spell on anything else? Conclusions: 
 This game is simply phenomenal. If you like a large but empty world to run around in, this isn't 
 for you. If you like a deep, dark storyline with multiple paths, dialog options based on your skills/stats, 
 and memorable characters then this is the game for you. I can only pray the this game will bring 
 back real RPGs again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: christofeles
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 2, 2007 4:09 pm PT
Review:  Story:
  
  This game got me from the start, it has a new and interesting story, unlike most other RPGs nowadays, 
 it is simply fun (though this fun can be replaced by frustration at some times more on that later) 
 to play this game and see how the story evolves and unfolds around your character. A big aspect 
 of the story is it's epic theme and it does fulfill that theme sufficiently enough, because it 
 just feels epic. Companions/NPCs:
  
  Obsidian did an awesome Job here, the NPCs are diverse and feel alive, they don't feel generic 
 or useless or interchangeable like some of the Companions in NWN2 or many other RPGs, MOTB is -in 
 this aspect- right up there with Jagged Alliance 2 and that means a lot.
  
  Quests:
  
  The Quests aren't a real new deal or something, but they are descent enough in my book. Not much 
 to say here. There could've been more riddles and quests that are more dialogue based and take 
 you away from the main plot for a while.
  
  New Content:
  
  You get a lot of new content that you can use in the toolset with this expansion, new races, new 
 feats, new spells. Sure they could have added even more content, but people should think about 
 the possibility of realisation for such projects and that now more than ever, such projects have 
 a tight deadline. Camera:
  
  A lot of people complain about the camera-system and so do I, it is just a constant nuisance and 
 it always feels somehow displaced and not easy to handle.
  
  Game-Mechanics:
  
  Flawed, but very good. I have to admit that, at times, this game can be very hard. But come on. 
 Try to think back a bit, there are a lot of games that have been harder in the past but were pretty 
 amazing nevertheless. And a game should always offer some kind of a challenge and should never 
 be to easy to beat, because that's just plain boring, it's the fights that are tough which you 
 remember, that are entertaining in retrospect and not the easy ones. Yet I can understand the people 
 who have a problem with the whole Spirit-Eater Affliction , it somehow punishes evil characters, 
 even if they get some goodies that good characters won't it's still unbalanced, which is a mayor 
 problem, because it takes away a lot of liberty -in a certain way- from the player. On the other 
 side, by making the game very tough at times, due to this part of the game-mechanics, it somehow 
 emphasizes the suffering your character goes through in a way that simple description by words 
 or graphics never will be able to. So it is still a very good and refreshingly new aspect of the 
 game in my opinion.
  
  Conclusion:
  
  All in all Mask of the Betrayer is a very solid piece of work, that offers a lot of fun and good 
 game-play, with a great story and a world that feels alive and is done very good. Sure it has it's 
 quirks, but I think it is underappreciated by most people who play it. Everything NWN2 did good, 
 this Expansion does even better. If you liked NWN2 for what it was, for it's story and the world 
 it took place in, Mask of the Betrayer is a must-have. [If you find any grammatical errors please 
 be so kind and inform so I can correct them. Since I am not a native speaker, try to be gentle.] 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vuducile
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 2, 2007 10:06 am PT
Review:  I completed NW2, which I thoroughly enjoyed, then ran out and bought this the same day. It's definitely 
 a lot more stable than the original, and I certainly can't fault the acting, intriguing story line, 
 or the depth of character displayed by any of the henchman who accompany your avatar through various 
 material, and non-material planes. The sad fact is that I felt very little connection with the 
 environment, nor did I feel that it managed to integrate well with, or even build on, the significantly 
 larger context of the original story line. You can import your NW OC character, sure- you even 
 get to keep equipped items (other than your weaponry) , but that's where the story ends for the 
 'Knight-Captain' of Crossroads Keep. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asestar
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 31, 2007 12:34 am PT
Review:  Neverwinter Nights 2 was a good game. It had some serious technical issues that brought even mightiest 
 of systems to their knees, a feeling that sudden parts were rushed to finish and downright atrocious 
 load times. Even after all that it made you feel part of universe, kept you interested in storyline 
 and entertained. So for the expansion, what could go wrong? Everything apparently. In efforts to 
 fix technical issues and improve performance (which they have to a noticable degree) , the game 
 camera is broken. There is no other word for it. You can never really get a good look of battle 
 field before something either attacks you from the corner that is off the screen or you end up 
 trying to fight the camera while some golem hacks off all your limbs. The rest of the game is nothing 
 special either. New races are a welcome addition, but whats up with only 3 hairstyle and faces 
 each? What happened to 20+ of original characters? Character creation is a huge gamble. You end 
 up making a Weapon Master that specializes in a weapon (say Katana) and have to spend several hours 
 trying to find a weapon. Even then you prolly wont afford it unless cheating. Difficulty is way 
 too hard. Fun has been sapped away from the series. I wont be playing this more than once for sure. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hexgod1
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 30, 2007 7:25 am PT
Review:  disappointed. I had some technical issues at first, but it was connected with my Nero software 
 and it was easily fixed. Sadly, the same cannot be said for the game itself. In my opinion, the 
 storyline was weak and uninteresting. I also found the characters bland -- I never even played with 
 Kaelyn because it was too much trouble to change the characters in my party because of the deeply, 
 deeply annoying Spirit eating mechanism. Not as important, but the romance choices -- please!! I 
 exported one of my female characters and so the only romance choice was Gann -- eewww -- a complete 
 narcissistic, insecure, and bland character. I would rather have had Kelghar as a romance choice! 
 Ultimately, I wandered through parts of the game wondering why I was even there -- I never even completed 
 the whole Ashenwood part. I just skipped it and went on. When I got to the end, I didn't even care. 
 Very sad! To sum up:
  
  Pros:
  
  1. For an expansion pack, it delivered a full game's worth of playing hours.
  
  2. The graphics 
 were much improved.
  
  3. New races and feats
  
  Cons:
  
  1. Weak storyline
  
  2. Uninteresting party members
  
  3. Annoying spirit-eating mechanism 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dbrewer842
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 24, 2007 10:05 am PT
Review:  Like many NWN expansions in the past, this one adds some tiles sets, monsters, items and a single 
 player campaign. But that is where the similarities stop. This time the campaign actually expands 
 the original story line of NWN 2. Helps answer those questions left by the ending of the original 
 game narrated by Bob, the night time rent a' cop. Things I like was the story line for the expansion 
 actually was pretty good and complete. Some of the tweaks they did to the game, why not all the 
 time noticeable was good, should have been done in a patch a long time ago. On the other hand the 
 one thing I did not like was the whole re-work of the camera and the lack of choice of the new 
 camera view or the old versions. Also no official published game guide on items or campaign has 
 been done by Obsidian/Atari. Only online created guides can be found. All and all its a good expansion 
 and should be on the list to get of you own and are into the original NWN 2. It has it own taste 
 and brings a mix reaction on my part. One part of me expected more the other expected less than 
 what we got.
  
  Dave Dee 
::::::

::::::
UserName: unigoono
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 23, 2007 8:57 pm PT
Review:  Neverwinter Nights 2 Mask of the Betrayer is a new addition to the Neverwinter Nights franchise. 
 It takes place right where number two ends off... sorta. You wake up in a new place, the shard 
 in your chest has been ripped out and in its place you were left with a dark hunger. As you set 
 out on a new journey you will travel across the lands of the Neverwinter Nights realm and seek 
 out what or who did this to you.
  
  All in all the game is good, it is better then the first Neverwinter nights 2 when it comes down 
 to the story, but how ever I feel that the old NWN hardcore fans will hate this one as much as 
 they did the first. It gives a great amount of play time, whether its from the multiable times 
 you play it going down to see the different endings, or the countless hours you might spend making 
 and playing on a mod you made all by yourself this game is great and well worth the money. While 
 it has the price tag of a expansion pack it will still offer the great game play of a full priced 
 game.
  
  How ever it doesn't go with out its flaw, like many games today. It's camera system is horrible 
 and makes you want to bash the screen with a wet fish some times because it can become annoying. 
 There are some bugs that have caused people to need to go back to saved games because triggers 
 or such got broke. Also there is complaint that the new companions are less funny then their first 
 predecessors which imho is good cuz I don't want to see clones of those old ding bats. I want new 
 and serious gameplay.
  
  So if you can get past the bugs which don't seem to be game braking I think that nwn fans and rpg 
 fans alike will enjoy a great role playing experience which seems to be more or less dead these 
 days. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lev_six
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 19, 2007 11:56 pm PT
Review:  The camera that made NWN2 virtually unplayable, clumsy, tiresome, and insane is back -- in a new, 
 revised form. They obviously got a lot of complaints so they changed things. It's not better, just 
 different. The whole system is awkward and messed up. If they just used a simple, straight forward 
 FPS type system where you can see your entire world while uniformly following your character, it'd 
 work. In the release notes they claimed a WOW type camera as a feature. It's NOT there.
  
  It is close to an MMO style camera but it doesn't work. You will find many of the same problematic 
 issues that were present in nwn2.
  
  So you are probably asking yourself, Why is this game review all about the camera? 
  
  Because 
 that's what defines the game. Any decent attributes that the game possesses are lost in the muddled 
 interace. It's AWFUL.
  
  The Mask of the Betrayer has some very minor tweaks but it is more of the same.
  
  Everything 
 is HIGHLY LINEAR. You have to follow certain paths in order to get from point A to B. It's nothing 
 great if not painfully mediocre.
  
  If you weren't big on the first one you will not find anything here worth exploring. If you really 
 liked the first one , and STILL like playing it, then you'll probably enjoy this. The reason I 
 say that is because even though there is a new plot and new scenery it feels like the same exact 
 game. There aren't enough differences to make it a fresh experience.
  
  It's pretty disappointing, much like the first installment. I think where many of us are finding 
 fault is in the fact that it could have been SO MUCH better. What is it going to take for a game 
 developer to get the D and D franchise right? It's ironic that the game that started it all continues 
 to flop along akwardly, seeking to find a formula and presentation that actually works! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talonfire
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 19, 2007 1:45 pm PT
Review:  Last year's Neverwinter Nights 2 was remarkable in the fact that it improved upon its predecessor 
 considerably. While NWN 2's OC was infinitely better than the original's, it was still fairly generic 
 by Obsidian's standards. I was hoping that Mask of the Betrayer would deliver a fresh, and engaging 
 story and I must say that it did so wonderfully. While it's not quite up there with Planescape: 
 Torment, and it still features the negative quirks of Neverwinter Nights 2, the story alone is 
 more than worth the price of admission.
  
  Mask of the Betrayer is set almost immediately after Neverwinter Nights 2 (probably just a matter 
 of hours) . You awaken in a strange cave with a hole in your chest where a shard of the Silver Sword 
 of Gith once was, and the conclusion that your companions are probably dead haunts your thoughts. 
 Just when you think things can't get any worse, you begin to feel a strange hunger. Mask really 
 does a great job at kicking you when you're down, fortunately you immediately receive aid from 
 a Red Wizard called Safiya who believes she may be able to help you thus begins an epic tale.
 
  
  The story of Mask of the Betrayer mostly focuses around the tragic tale of the Betrayer as the 
 expansion title suggests. It takes a more philosophical approach like the legendary Planescape: 
 Torment, and Knights of the Old Republic II: The Sith Lords, and this pays off I think. While most 
 Forgotten Realms and RPGs in general (NWN 2 included) tell a fairly generic good versus evil story, 
 MotB tells an exceptional story of sacrifice, nature, and resolve. The original NWN 2 protagonist 
 (You can import your old character or create a new one) is joined by a new lineup of interesting 
 characters. Obviously they can't be run of the mill Dwarves, Elves, and Humans since most don't 
 reach epic levels, instead you've got a mysterious Red Wizard, a dream-walking Hagspawn, a rebellious 
 celestial, and finally a Bear God spirit, or evil spirit that absorbs others (depending on a certain 
 choice you make) . While the lineup sounds intriguing, I felt that there was a disappointing lack 
 of development. The characters were more intriguing than the run of the mill party members you 
 got in NWN 2, but at the same time you learn the same amount of info as the original lineup... 
 in other words not much at all.
  
  Since the gameplay remains fairly the same I will go over some significant changes\additions. First 
 of all, you've got some new classes and races though I have not used any of them. A good new feature 
 is the introduction of epic levels, you can go from level 20 to level 30 which is nice, but only 
 really necessary for the campaign. I mean, who actually goes above level 20 on the multiplayer 
 PWs?
  
  Mask of the Betrayer's most significant flaw is a flaw that has been around since the initial release 
 of Neverwinter Nights 2. That's right, you've guessed it, the camera. Obsidian made the camera 
 options a little easier to manage by giving you two modes, Character Mode (A more third person 
 perspective like Knights of the Old Republic and Jade Empire) , and Strategy Mode (An isometric 
 perspective like Baldur's Gate and a lot of older RPGs) . While this sounds good, it doesn't fix 
 the problems. Playing in character mode is often difficult because the camera controls are awful, 
 and if any of your party members are set to near in their Behavior follow distance, it can be difficult 
 to see ahead. Okku was a cause of much pain for me, I eventually just set everyone to Far so I 
 could actually see where I was going. Strategy Mode isn't much better, while you don't have to 
 worry about party members obstructing your vision, you've got a whole new bag of problems. The 
 controls are once again awful, I don't know why but every time I entered a new area the camera 
 zoomed itself to ground level so I had to zoom out every time. I eventually just stuck with character 
 mode and only used strategy mode when there was a lot of epic spell chaos occurring.
  
  Another important feature added in Mask (and is likely a campaign only feature) is the Spirit Meter. 
 You're now carrying a curse that forces you to consume spirits to stay alive, and there is a gameplay 
 mechanic that reflects this. You'll first get the meter at the end of Act I, and from that point 
 on it is constantly draining. This adds a sense of urgency to your quest, as once the meter reaches 
 certain points it will effect you by decreasing your stats and by damaging you every few seconds, 
 and if the meter reaches zero you die. How you deal with this curse plays part in both the story, 
 and your alignment. You can give in to the hunger and devour spirits giving you some benefits in 
 the long run (but also making you more evil) , or you can suppress it as much as possible. There 
 are many abilities you are given that allow you to deal with the curse in whatever way you see 
 fit. If being on the clock bothers you, then you may find Mask of the Betrayer very frustrating 
 at times since the meter drops faster than even I would have liked (especially when you rest) . 
 Still, MotB is a better game because of the spirit meter since it adds to the story, and though 
 it can be irritating to manage it adds new challenges to the game.
  
  Graphically Mask is not very different from NWN 2. It features some new monsters and terrain which 
 is very nice, and their quality is at least on par with the original game. Some of the areas are 
 very well designed, but since this is an expansion, it'll feel very familiar... don't let those 
 pretty pre-release screenshots fool you.
  
  The audio of Mask is a significant improvement, I'm pleased to say. Not only has the voice acting 
 been upped in quality, but there is absolutely no music from the original Neverwinter Nights, and 
 Neverwinter Nights 2 used during the campaign. MotB features an entirely original musical score 
 which has both an epic, and dreamlike feel which suits the overall tone of the game very well since 
 the game is epic, and dreams play an important part in the story.
  
  Mask of the Betrayer is an exceptional title. Yes, it still has the gameplay flaws that Neverwinter 
 Nights 2 had, but the storyline and audio alone are more than worth the price of admission. If 
 Obsidian decides to produce a second expansion (mention of the jungle region of Chult implies that 
 they will) I'm hoping that they'll try and surpass what they did with this expansion. Overall, 
 while not as good as Planescape: Torment, Mask of the Betrayer is proof that if given the time 
 Obsidian can produce a title that is complete and above the more big name releases as far as originality 
 and quality is concerned. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ppf816438
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 16, 2007 3:41 pm PT
Review:  First of all, I am a really big fan of NWN series. I had played through both NWN 1 and 2 several 
 times just for the story and party member interaction. I believe most of NWN fans are just like 
 me, who love to take time to enjoy the story and world create by Atari. I put on much hope and 
 faith for NWN: MoB, maybe not exceed NWN2 but have as much fun as I get from NWN2. Nevertheless, 
 it doesn't turn out as I hoped.
  
  The game have a good start, it leave you guessing and wondering what happened to you after the 
 epic battle of NWN2. By venturing through first dungeon with your helpful companion (yes, she is 
 a new companion with better AI... well least her AI won't malfunction) , you slowly got a grasp of 
 the situation. After introduce player to shadow plan and hint about the evil behind the story, 
 the killing system kick in...
  
  According to interview of NWN designer team before release of NWN: MoB. The new system Spirit Energy 
 is mean to create a limitation of previous overused rest common (it make game too easy since you 
 can rest anytime to regain used spell and ability) , to create more challenge and improvised battle 
 strategy. It sounds fun at first but turns out it's really bothering. At first you can only devour 
 element/spirit/incorporeal type, later you can devour undead and humanoid type. By devour enemy 
 your craving will increase, which means the spirit you devour will get you fewer spirit energy 
 and it will decrease faster. More over, there are several stages of debuff (ability decrease, max 
 HP, damage over time and vulnerability against all attack types) when spirit energy went down then 
 you will die if it hit 0. The punch line is, spirit energy only stop decreasing when you paused 
 game or in conversation with NPC. It drop dramatically after rest and traveling to different location 
 via world map, sometime you even found yourself dead after you arrived another place. Other player 
 did find a way by using suppress , which really slow down decrease of spirit energy, before rest 
 or world map traveling. Funny thing is you can't use devour and suppress at the same game day... so 
 if you used devour, you can choice to charge forward without rest (bad for spell caster) or wait 
 till one game day go by, and both choices leave your spirit energy decreasing constantly. What 
 if you are about to run out of spirit energy and no monster around to feast on? Well, you can sacrifice 
 your exp point by using Satiate to fully charge your spirit energy... and you do gain negative level 
 if the exp point used on Satiate is too much to maintain the current level.
  
  So here I was, rushing around city and dungeon, constant paused game and fear to rest/travel on 
 world map. Every other thing is good, new companions look unique with depth background, story lure 
 you in and epic level really boost every encounter to new excitement. I really really pray that 
 they will patch it, least slow the decrease rate or something.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: megawavez
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 6, 2007 12:19 pm PT
Review:  I have to re-review this game. I am currently on my second play through and am realizing I played 
 through the first time much too quickly. I think the Obsidian crew has hit a home run and it's 
 really because of...
  
  THE STORY
  
  Mask of the Betrayer is a very rich, dark, and involved game in which you really have to pay attention 
 to what's going on to follow the story - it's a basic anmensia, who am I story, but still very 
 well done. The team at Obsidian has done a terrific job of providing and excellent new (and weird) 
 world with a tremendous number of rich sub-environments.
  
  You of course get a several companions to accompany you through the world of Rasheman . Although 
 your companions can be a little irritating at times, they're also unique and *interesting*. I remember 
 being sort of thrilled running through the dialog options with all of the Planescape: Torment characters 
 and I'd say the Mask characters are just about as much fun. They are also involved the story, so 
 they more than just window dressing.
  
  The dialog and voice acting were both terrific and really add to the atmosphere - all of it very 
 professionally done. I also thought the background music was terrific.
  
  The bad - well, the camera kind of sucks - I tried both strategic and character and found both 
 a bit clunky. Although I understood the purpose of the spirit meter, I thought it was more irritating 
 that fun. The story is *highly* linear and it might have been fun to have more optional side quests 
 and areas. There were also a couple areas where it seemed monsters were kind of thrown in well.. 
 just to have more monsters. Might have been more interesting to have them in separate areas.
  
  This is a STORY driven expansion, so if you are looking for hack &amp; slash, forget it - your 
 probably going to get bored. If you like dark , rich, intelligent stories, then this is an excellent 
 buy.
  
  I compare *all* RPG games against Planescape: Torment, and well, this comes pretty darn close! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swr1ght
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 14, 2007 8:29 am PT
Review:  The first thing that you notice when trying to play the expansion pack for NWN2, is that you have 
 to export your character from NWN2 before you can use them in MotB. It sounds simple, but it had 
 been months since I had played NWN2, so there was actually a good two or three minutes of me staring 
 at the screen trying to figure out why my character from the NWN2 was not selectable when starting 
 MotB. Then it's just an easy matter of popping into the last saved game (which is likely before 
 the final battle, so you do not have all your final exp as you cannot save after the final battle) 
 and exporting your character so that you can use it in MotB. But considering that most players 
 will want to use their old character (since you have to have NWN2 to play MotB) you would think 
 that they would have streamlined this to make things easier to start the game. No such luck.
  The second thing that you notice, is that the camera (which was bad in NWN2) has been made substantially 
 worse in MotB. You cannot rotate the camera, it always faces north by default, and does not stay 
 centered on the selected character. This is just... really... really... bad. I have no idea how you 
 could play the game with this as your setting. Maybe if you zoomed REALLY far out? Anyway, so into 
 the options I go and I find that there are two different sets of camera settings, the first is 
 the character camera settings, and the second is the strategic camera settings. So of course I 
 start adjusting the first set of camera settings to fix the problems with the default settings... and 
 nothing changes. So after another ten minutes or so, I discover the default camera settings are 
 not the first camera settings (named character camera) , but the second set of camera settings (named 
 strategic camera) . Why the is the default camera setting the SECOND set of settings and not the 
 first? Beats the hell out of me. So I've now discovered my problem, but A) I have no idea how to 
 switch camera settings, and B) I don't even know how to see WHICH camera setting I am in. You would 
 think if you are going to have two totally different settings like this, it would occur to you 
 to make letting the player know which they were in, and how to switch them really obvious. It turns 
 out after an hour or so of play, one of the help screens that popup during the loading screens 
 actually tells you how to switch, it's the * if anyone is interested.
  I like the adjusted influence settings MUCH better than the old influence. That is an improvement. 
 I have a pretty high end PC, and it still has some difficulties playing this game smoothly. Though 
 everything is set to maximum. But still, I felt with the NWN2 and now with MotB that the game is 
 not as smooth as a game with this level of graphics should be. As far as difficulty goes, this 
 game like all based on D&amp; D rule sets will depend largely on what class you choose, some are 
 just more powerful than others. Though one interesting thing I would recommend... play at a higher 
 difficulty to make the game a little easier against spellcasters. At higher levels area of effects 
 spells affect everyone, not just the enemies of the spell caster. I cannot tell you the number 
 of times that I have charged up next to a spell caster and just let them kill themselves by dropping 
 area of effect spells right on top of themselves. Particularly effective technique if you are playing 
 a monk or rogue that has really high saving throws. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vasot
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 14, 2007 8:24 am PT
Review:  The expansion is in general better from the original game
  
  1) Graphics have been improved even if still they are a little dated
  
  2) Story is shorter 
 from the original but darker and more challenging
  
  3) Sounds and music are excellent 4) The camera is a little annoying but the good thing is that 
 you can make modifications to it in the options menu
  
  5) Ai has been improved compared to the original game but still has some bugs 6) New classes and 
 races are a very good addition
  
  In General as a RPG game it is what exactly what you can expect
  It is thrilling in any way you 
 see it
  
  I have also to add that the game community of this game is awesome and can give it more life for 
 months to come 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SacrificiaLamb
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 13, 2007 1:25 pm PT
Review:  This game does better with the story and characters than the OC. It was a relief to have a more 
 mature set of party members who actually seem to fit the D&amp; D universe. The story, while nothing 
 to get your heart racing, was a little more cohesive than the original, and manages to tie up all 
 the loose ends at its conclusion. There's nothing epic here though, and the actual ending is a 
 major anti-climax given all the big talk beforehand.
  
  Positives:
  
  1) Graphics have been slightly improved, especially shadows, water and particle effects. Textures 
 are still bleh and the models/faces look the same.
  
  2) Level design is better. There's more detail in the environments and overall most of the maps 
 are bigger.
  
  3) Story and characters (compared to the OC) . There are also more puzzles which provide a welcome 
 mental challenge and respite from the tedium of combat.
  
  4) Now you can actually get ambushed while resting, which makes the game a bit more challenging.
 
  
  Negatives:
  
  1) Broken mechanics/rules. Some feats still aren't working as they should and some of the rules 
 don't seem to be implemented very well. Not being able to use any feats (like knockdown) while 
 shapeshifted is an example.
  
  2) Animations. Embarrassing is the best way to describe it. Attack animations often don't fire 
 when the actual attack (roll) occurs, especially true when shapeshifted. Monsters will sometimes 
 glide across the screen without a walking animation. The animations in general are poor quality 
 even when they are working. No mocap for these guys.
  
  3) Camera. This was incredibly frustrating. Move, rotate, move, rotate. The camera also gets hung 
 up on the environment (pillars are a real problem) , so it tends to jump around in dungeons, up, 
 down, in, out.
  
  4) Clunky interface. Why can't I drag a group selection box around the whole party, like you could 
 do in BG2? Selecting characters and giving commands has been made harder than it should be.
  
  5) The AI still sucks. This time I went entirely in puppet mode, which still doesn't work as 
 intuitively as it does in BG2.
  
  6) Performance. Even though I had high frames according to FRAPS (&gt;40 fps) , the game was laggy 
 in certain areas (bad code somewhere) .
  
  7) Still buggy. A few crashes, usually on exit.
  
  Neutral:
  
  1) The spirit-eater mechanic. 
 This basically acts as a drug addiction during the game. It places a time-constraint on resting/traveling 
 and adds a layer of complexity to the story. Some may find it annoying, some may like the additional 
 challenge.
  
  2) Epic levels and equipment. Good if you like uber characters with weapons that do +5d6 fire, 
 cold, and acid damage, armor that gives you +8 regeneration, +8 AC, and 30+ spell resistance (all 
 stacked!) . Bad if you like balance and challenge in the later stages. I think they really blew 
 it out of proportion.
  
  In total, better than the original, ok, but nothing special. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kinthalis
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 13, 2007 9:52 am PT
Review:  The Expansion Campaign is more immersive, darker, more intriguing and more difficult than the original 
 campaign. The new abilities are fun and powerful and include powerful new shapes for the druis, 
 new spells for all spell casting classes including powerful epic spells, and combat feats for the 
 melee types. The new camera is leages better than the old one (but you can still get the old one 
 back if you prefer it) , and the improvements to the engine make for a better looking and better 
 performing game.
  
  Whether you liked the original game and have been playing it online or off, or you were waiting 
 for some of the bugs to be fixed and more community content to appear before going on your first 
 adventure, you can't go wrong with this expansion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phoenixDs24
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 13, 2007 7:52 am PT
Review:  It's pretty much impossible to discuss Mask of the Betrayer without reference to Neverwinter Nights 
 2. While one may play through the expansion campaign without ever setting foot within the original 
 campaign, the story makes much more sense, and will probably mean a lot more to you if you have 
 played through the first game.
  
  Mask of the Betrayer offers improved gameplay, graphics, build choices, and a dark, personal storyline. 
 While I didn't personally have much, if any problems with performance or graphics the first go 
 around, even I noticed that Mask of the Betrayer was a marked improvement, with better looking 
 environments, more detailed characters, and far superior shadow effects. The game also runs much 
 smoother even with these improvements. The only real slowdowns I've experienced have been involving 
 very large battles with over a dozen enemies and spells galore being tossed about, and none of 
 these were as bad as the ones experienced in the first game.
  
  The storyline itself delivers on all fronts. Taking you through a journey to discover the source 
 and cause of your own personal affliction, while you struggle with a curse you can barely control, 
 all the while confronting you with the ghost of past deeds of your NPCs and others. It also featured 
 several challenging puzzles, which lended to the air of frustration about your character and their 
 experiences. It was something that really pulled you in. The story made you care about your character 
 and the things that were happening around them in a way that the original campaign did not.
  
  While some have called the spirit meter one of the most annoying things they've dealt with 
 in a game, I didn't find it hard to manage. The only people for whom it would truly pose a challenge 
 are those who would go around mindlessly consuming spirits. And for those, the spirit meter should 
 pose a challenge. There are consequences for actions taken in regards to the spirit meter. Consume 
 more spirits, and you can become more powerful, but you'll be totally addicted, and die very quickly 
 if not replenished. Don't consume spirits, and you won't have the same abilities, but you'll be 
 able to last a very long time without needing to fill up.
  
  Mask of the Betrayer, of course, also introduces some epic levels. Epic levels are fun, for the 
 most part. While your characters become near demigods in terms of power and ability, it makes low 
 level encounters kind of boring (enemies respawn in certain areas, so not all the encounters are 
 going to be scaled to your current level) . Still, many of the enemies you'll be facing are also 
 suitably super-powered, so there'll still be some difficulty with the encounters. Like always, 
 you'll also be outnumbered all the time. Also, for those who like to solo, it's probably possible, 
 but be warned that the encounters are not scaled for solo play, so you're in for a very tough fight 
 at certain points.
  
  The new classes and races added to the game are quite nice, without making the other, older classes 
 irrelevant. They still all have their own advantages and disadvantages. D&amp; D in itself is not 
 terribly balanced, but Obsidian managed to strike a decent one here. While there are still going 
 to be some overpowered and underpowered classes and races, the new ones added aren't going to be 
 completely uber or worthless either.
  
  There are still some bugs and issues with Mask of the Betrayer. A few quests don't completely work 
 properly (the quest with the farmgirl being a rather famous example at this point) . Also, there 
 is some party banter, but not as much as was hoped. Your companions can even talk about each other 
 to you, with no interjections from the one being discussed, which I found a little weird. All in 
 all, the companions are still better than the ones in the original campaign, with more depth and 
 personality to each of them. Better voice acting, too.
  
  In the end, Mask of the Betrayer achieves all it set out to do: resolve the issues of Neverwinter 
 Nights 2 and create a story and setting the player could really get into. Mask of the Betrayer, 
 while its campaign is not quite so epic in scope as the original campaign, surpasses its predecessor 
 on all levels. It's a true success. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mmdoran1
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 12, 2007 6:45 pm PT
Review:  how many years does it take for obsidian to get the camera right. instead of simplifying and improving 
 the balky camera, they have suceeded in making it worse. after playing with the settings for over 
 an hour, the camera still 'strafes' right and left when its supposed to 'rotate' according to keymap. 
 very disapointing! i cant review the rest of the game because its too frustrating to play. hopefully 
 this can be corrected with a community patch since obsidian cant get it right. suggestion- how 
 about using the typical 3rd person shooter model with a wide zoom out so u can see the whole battlefield? 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dryden555
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 15, 2007 1:53 am PT
Review:  I thought NW2 was very disappointing, even after all of the patches and fixes. Boring story, mandatory 
 NPC's I didnt want in my party, horrible camera, stuttery graphics, fidgety combat, and lots of 
 bugs. To my surprise, obsidian fixed a lot of issues in this add-on. I also disagree with one criticism 
 offered in the Gamespot review. I liked the new overhead bird's eye view camera mode. Since it 
 is overhead all of the time, I dont have to fiddle with the camera much and I get a good constant 
 view of all of the combat.
  
  Some other things worth mentioning:
  
  The story is dark themed and there's plenty of opportunity to choose an evil type character and 
 make evil RPG choices.
  
  The normal default mode of difficulty is too easy. In that mode you can do criticals but the enemy 
 cannot perform any criticals against you. There is a higher level of difficulty and I urge folks 
 to make use of it. Gamespot says the game is too hard but anyone who has finished Baldur's Gate 
 2 will find this game way too easy at the default difficulty.
  
  In the add-on, all of the combat is between very high level characters right from the start. This 
 can be fun. But from a DandD perspective, these characters basically have god-like abilities. Its 
 a bit off-putting to roll a new character and he's already at Epic levels. In a similar vein, the 
 game is filled with uber-loot ready to pick up off of the ground that will make your god-like character 
 even more powerful. For me, its all a bit too much. I personally would have had more fun building 
 a character from level 1. The add on is worth playing if you like PC-style single-player RPG games. 
 Baldur's Gate 2 is still the better RPG game over all if you want a deep RPG. Play that game first 
 if you havent already! Is this add-on worth buying? Its a tough call. The add-on doesnt really 
 improve the original very flawed game. If you REALLY enjoy single player PC RPG's and you dont 
 mind several non-fatal flaws in the gameplay, you should consider picking it up. Personally, I 
 think RPG games like Planscape Torment and Fallout 2 and Baldur's Gate 2 have yet to be matched. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kbart10384
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 12, 2007 6:46 am PT
Review:  Just got this, so these are just my preliminary impressions...
  
  This is a vast improvement on the OC, which I thought was not quite up to the quality of the original 
 NWN and was a bit of a cakewalk. The graphics are much smoother here and the change in the campaign 
 is refreshing. The problems? If you've played NWN2 before, you know them -- your companions still 
 manage to get themselves lost, fail to follow you and, worst of all, fail to defend you (ex., my 
 poor half-drow wizard getting hacked to bits while my companions stand around checking their blackberries...) . 
 This is irritating, as Obsidian must be aware of these problems by now... and yet, here they are. 
 Also, Obsidian has GOT to get rid of that camera and do something better -- there is just no way 
 to encapsulate how much it sucks!
  
  Overall, though, if you liked NWN, NWN2, etc., or like RPGs in general, get it. And pray that Obsidian 
 gets its act together and patches the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shep78
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 12, 2007 4:18 am PT
Review:  I thought it was well done. I love that you cant sleep every five minutes to heal up and get your 
 full arsenal back. The game has many wonderful factors and the NPC's are awesome and the comments 
 are ROTF funny.
  I love the IMP best... that guy is simply the best voice over ever made :)
  
  So ya, good game, 
 and good graphics with an awesome story and tons of new stuff to do. Don't care to much for the 
 spells... nothing to out of the ordinary there; kinda wish they would have some epic dragon dancing 
 world destroyer spell... but nope :) ... Also, kind of wanted more Fort and Castle building but 
 I didn't see that yet either. sorry If I spoiled anything, I don't think i did though.
  I would buy it, and so should you given the criteria:
  
  -You like Role Playing and stories
 
  
  -You like fun character builds and humor
  
  -You have 30 hours to spare
  
  -Like a good challenge 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Merlanni
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 11, 2007 2:27 pm PT
Review:  It was due, a big overhaul for NWN2. With the expansions of NWN1 story replayability was brought 
 to NWN and this expansion for NWN2 does the same. New monster, new classes, new lore and a story. 
 It is more than 3,5 gig on the dvd so it is larger than some other games.
  
  I am not going to spoil here, or tell you what the sites say but try to give my feeling of the 
 game. It feels better, it looks better and it plays better. The NPC&acute; s have more life in them 
 and the camera is fair. You still need to tweek it to get the nwn1 cam back. look for it on the 
 bioware boards. So if you liked the OC, this one is a must. The dice are still alive.
  
  One point however, the spirit meter. They still had to do something wrong. 5 points penalty so 
 it stays at 85. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sorenf31
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 11, 2007 4:53 am PT
Review:  Unlike some, I thought NWN2 was a solid rpg. I will admit it took some time to get the controls 
 and camera down, but with a good story, graphics and gameplay it was a keeper.
  
  Mask of the Betrayer adds quite a few tweaks and enhancements onto the original NWN2. Some like 
 epic levels I have not gotten that much into yet. The new classes and races can be played in both 
 the expansion and the original so I have been bouncing back and forth between the two.
  
  My only complaint so far is that the expansion does not seem to follow the original story very 
 closely. References are made, but in an expansion I like to feel like I am picking up where I left 
 off and I really don't here. In all fairness the original NWN had the same issues with their expansions.
 
  
  If you enjoyed NWN2 then this is a definite buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nikolokolus
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 11, 2007 12:32 am PT
Review:  Pros:
  From the moment I fired up this expansion the first thing that jumped out at me was the vast improvements 
 to performance, but beyond better eye candy and the game not bringing my system to its knees (as 
 the first NWN2 did) , the new music, sounds, atmospheric effects, and attention to detail really 
 shows.
  
  To top it all off it just feels darker, grittier, and better than its predecessor. It seems OEI 
 finally got to make the game they wanted to all along.
  
  The last point to be made is that I approach this franchise as a mod builder and while I can appreciate 
 the effort that went into the SP game, my main point of focus is building and using the toolset. 
 It's still got a super steep learning curve (but if you are determined there's a real nice gem 
 of a developer's tool in there.) The added textures, placeables, effects, interior tilesets are 
 all welcome additions.
  
  Cons:
  MP is still pretty shaky in general; until OEI releases an auto-downloader to fetch PWC files and 
 the like, there are going to be major barriers to entry for casual players looking for MP ... hopefully 
 they'll finally get this crap sorted out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikehicks
Rating: 4
Date: Oct 10, 2007 9:38 am PT
Review:  Before I start, let me make it clear. I loved NW2 and played it all of the way through, looking 
 forward to this update.
  OK, maybe I haven't played it for long enough but the instant level of difficulty just makes it 
 dull. I fought the pirates in the sloop 6 times before I won and that was after turning the level 
 down to easy. I still haven't won the fight against the red mage in the shadow theatre and that's 
 after I was able to intimidate him sucessfully! It's just stupid, what's the point in the most 
 modest of characters carrying around 5k of gold if all you've done is make inflation in the merchants 
 equivalent to a small latin american state in the 1970's. Hard doesn't mean better - this sort 
 of game should be driven along by it's storyline, not by a my dad's bigger than your dad mentality 
 - I'll have to hack to god mode in chapter one at this rate! I dont think I can be bothered.
  
  Also I can't switch between display modes, the * key does nothing so I am reduced to messing 
 around with the mouse every time I want to turn around.
  
  Call me rubbish at RGPs, I don't care, I'm playing it for me, but not for much longer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gbooster
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 10, 2007 8:26 am PT
Review:  When the original Neverwinter Nights 2 came out, I was excited to get it having played Neverwinter 
 Nights 1 for years. I loved all the spells, abilities and character building process, which to 
 me was the best out there of any rules system I had played. What always bugged me though was the 
 controls. It just all seemed so awkward, especially as I had been playing Everquest and was used 
 to the typical MMO set up. NWN2, when it came out, was really tough to get into, it was so clunky, 
 more clunky than the first, it got better as they added more patches but I was disappointed with 
 the game overall.
  
  Well, with MOTB they have added a new camera option, and that has made this game so much more enjoyable 
 for me. You can steer and move your character with the left mouse button held down now, if thats 
 not your thing and you like playing more like a strategy game, well they have that option too. 
 And these are not just static camera options, these have their own options page with alot of different 
 settings so you can tweak it out to suit your gaming style. If you played the original campaign 
 then you know how insanely easy it was, even on the most difficult setting. It was, well, really 
 boring game play. The building up the characters and that aspect was, of course, alot of fun. But 
 the whole time i played the OC, I kept wishing there was another difficulty level to raise it, 
 to make the monsters have double hit points, or something. Well MOTB is much more difficult. You 
 really have to plan out the fights and conserve your spells. When you rest, depending on where 
 you are, there is more than a 50% chance you will get jumped by monsters. And I don't mean some 
 level 3 bugbears that your sorcerer can melee down while the rest of the party stands around and 
 yawns. No, I'm talking about Death Knights who will rip you and your party a new one.
  
  They have also raised the level cap to 30 and added a few new classes, the spirit shaman, which 
 is like a druid sorcerer (doesn't have to memorize spells) and a cleric counterpart. Along with 
 a few more prestige classes. This expansion improved this game so much, I feel like it's finally 
 what it is supposed to be, most importantly a good challenge to play. I can only hope they make 
 the next expansion just as well as they have this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lobotomist
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 9, 2007 1:28 am PT
Review:  Mask of Betrayer is gradual improvement to NWN2 original campain.
  Just as Shadows of Undrertide brought improvements over NWN1 campain.
  
  MoTB brings new better 
 looking graphic elements , armors , weapons , monsters and NPC. Graphic engine is more optimised 
 and camera issues are almost fixed. New SOUNDS and music! Level design is vastly improved , combat 
 sequences are more thought out , dialogues bring much more skill checks , companions are MUCH better 
 and have much more influence change points.
  
  There is a wagon load of new classes races , PRC's and feats ( most of them broken and not well 
 implemented )
  
  And the game is actually challenging ! In one word , if you enjoyed NWN2 - I recomend you playing 
 MOTB
  
  However , things that are really wrong with NWN2 are not repaired , and question is if they can 
 ever be repaired.
  
  Companions are still mindless , micromanaging is still pain , lot of skills are still broken , 
 and D&amp; D functionalities plainly wrong implemented. Character animations are still STIFF , and 
 they still look retarded.
  
  Multiplayer , editor and DM client is still a joke. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
