-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: NeverEnd
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/neverend/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Once you get past the suffering, you'll have a lot of laughs (at the game's expense).
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Visuals straight out of a late-'90s golf game.
 unbalanced monster encounters.
 dated, ineffective turn-based combat engine.
 ludicrous dialogue and voice acting.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 13, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 3.3
Critic Score: 4.8, 12 Review (s)
User Score: 5.4, 211 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: DreamCatcher Interactive
Developer: Mayhem Studios
Genre: Role-Playing
Date:     Oct 2, 2006
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Thankfully, this RPG only feels like it never ends. 

  If you're a fan of role-playing games and point-and-click adventures, NeverEnd will offend you 
 on just about every possible level. This cross-genre effort from Bratislava's Mayhem Studios is 
 so far behind the times that it's about as modern as the telegram, with graphics straight out of 
 a decade-old golf game and gameplay clunky enough to evoke fond memories of the Commodore 64. Unless 
 you're looking for some laughs or a trip down memory lane, stay far, far away from this one.  

 
          So much of NeverEnd is unbalanced that you never know when you're going to run into monsters 
 that outclass you in every way, like these skeletons.     

  That said, at least the setup is sort of intriguing. Instead of playing the usual unsung hero or 
 stuffed shirt in chain mail, here you take the role of Agavaen, a female thief. Her band of merry 
 men kicks off the game by holding a drunken party in the woods to celebrate the heist of a chest 
 full of gold pieces. Unfortunately, by the time she wakes up with a killer hangover the next morning, 
 a couple of her pals have scrammed with the booty, and the boss of the outfit blames her for leading 
 them all astray with her feminine wiles. But rather than take any guff about her love of crop tops, 
 Agavaen kills him and sets off on a quest to recover the cash.  

  A capable designer could have had a lot of fun with such an antihero premise. Mayhem Studios, however, 
 somehow couldn't construct a viable game around Agavaen, the hot-chick thief. Although the developer 
 does a reasonable job of walking the lline between the RPG and adventure genres by adding role-playing 
 stats, level progression, and although the game is turn-based, a hack-and-slash Diablo vibe to 
 point-and-click adventuring, the game mechanics are abysmal. Once you get beyond the bones of the 
 admittedly beefy feature set, the game falls apart.  

  Balance is a huge problem. In terms of difficulty, the encounters in NeverEnd are all over the 
 place. Right from the beginning of the game, you might run into monsters that are powerful enough 
 to slaughter you in seconds. This continues to occur throughout the game. You'll be moving along 
 just fine, then suddenly, you run into a pair of ghosts you can't even scratch, or a couple of 
 faeries (yes, faeries) who smoke you in seconds with critical hits. The game is pretty heavy on 
 combat, as well, and there is no way to avoid going mano a mano on a frequent basis, as battles 
 appear totally out of the blue when you're exploring the wilderness. One moment you're wandering 
 through an empty clearing, then the next moment, you see a "Prepare for Battle" warning and are 
 off to yet another melee with who knows what kinds of enemies.  

  Given all that, it probably shouldn't surprise you that the combat engine itself is also poorly 
 designed. Battles use a turn-based system that feels and functions much like what was used once 
 upon a time in RPGs -- as in the classic AD&amp; D Gold Box games from the late 1980s and early 1990s. 
 When battle begins, you immediately shift to a third-person arena where you select a combat action 
 (typically fighting with a melee weapon or casting a spell) , pick an attack type or spell, and 
 then watch as you shuffle forward and take a swing at the targeted opponent.  

  The entire process works reasonably well, but it seems like a glimpse into the distant past. Combat 
 is slow, clunky, lacking in tension, and hampered by some extremely choppy character animations. 
 However, many of the battle arenas look good before anyone starts moving, and some battles even 
 take place in gorgeous tree-covered clearings that are spotted with sunlight and shadow. Still, 
 there are just a handful of these arenas, so you're fighting in the same locations all the time, 
 and many don't match the setting that you're exploring on the map. You may be wandering through 
 a swamp, but as soon as a fight begins, you're often magically transported to a shady glade that 
 is complete with a bower in the background -- as if you just interrupted somebody's backyard wedding. 

  Other presentation values are also many years out of date. Outdoor vistas look a lot like something 
 you would have seen in a golf game seven or eight years ago, with jagged 3D characters and objects 
 on top of backdrop photographs of cloudy skies, forested hills, and trees. At times it's hard to 
 tell if you're in a fantasy game or are about to tackle the back nine at Sawgrass. There are no 
 frills here, either. Pick up a non-player character to tag along in your adventures, and you only 
 see him or her when you're engaged in combat. At all other times when you're exploring the map, 
 you just get an icon in the top right of the screen to remind you of your buddy's presence.  

 
          Sometimes the best way to win is to not play at all.     

  Audio belongs in a museum as well. Not to belabor the golf-game comparisons, but outdoor sound 
 effects include bird chirping and animal trilling, exactly like you heard when playing Links LS 
 98. The soundtrack loops the same annoying synthesizer tune over and over again every couple of 
 minutes. Voice acting is so bad that you'd swear the actors are making fun of the script. Most 
 of the lines sound like they were voiced by drama-class teenagers who were forced to stay after 
 school and record this drivel for extra credit. All of the dialogue sounds crazily rushed, so subdued 
 that you want to reach into the screen and check the speaker for a pulse or so overacted that it's 
 impossible to believe that the actors are taking any of it seriously.  

  You won't be able to take NeverEnd seriously either. While you might ultimately find some unintentional 
 humor with this game, there are too many great RPGs and adventure games out there for you to waste 
 your time laughing at how lousy this one is.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (12 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: merchitO
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 10, 2008 1:31 am PT
Review:  Neverend has a lot of charm and enough qualities to make you having a good time. It is extremely 
 unfair to give it the very low ratings it receives.
  
  Neverend has been made on a low budget, in Slovakia, and you must be tremendously stupid and contemptuous 
 to judge it by the same criteria than a game crafted on an hollywoodian budget in an ber-rich 
 country.
  
  Behind this game, there are talented artists and programmers, and it shows. Graphics look vintage, 
 but can be beautiful sometimes. Great attention has been brought to details. Gameplay is very good, 
 at least for someone who enjoys old style RPGs and turn-based combat. I personally like very much 
 the main character, and the meticulously designed general chars animation.
  
  The combat system is excellent, though at first it can be a bit confusing. But when you understand 
 how it works, it becomes a very exciting experience.
  Automatic skills addition on weapons and magic style you use the most is very well done. And the 
 spell crafting system, depending on recipes and runes, is plain fun.
  I read people complaining about the fact they met unbeatable opponents when they were at low levels. 
 Well, I say, that's just what makes the fun and motivation in RPGs, to have to level up before 
 being able to come back in certain areas where you have been humiliated (an incentive which has 
 been removed in Oblivion, by the way, making it a very bland RPG experience) . Also, in Neverend, 
 when you can't beat your adversary, you don't have to die, if you use the FLEE button (in time) . 
 If anyway you are killed, loading a quick-save is no hassle. Loading and saving times are fast 
 as lightning, really.
  
  Someone wrote in a game review I read once "complaining for the gamers has become very sexy". And 
 that's true. I love PC games, collect them, and own more than 400 which are mostly RPGs. I always 
 judge a game for what it is, and never for what it is not. Also, when I don't like a game, I refrain 
 from writing negative reviews and just shut up, because behind every game there are dedicated creators 
 who don't deserve to be hurt, who need to be encouraged.
  
  Neverend is a good game, made by obviously talented people. I like to play it, and will do so to 
 the end of its story. Thank you whoever made it, for this time of enjoyment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: red_x2004
Rating: 2
Date: May 30, 2007 4:19 am PT
Review:  Am not going to say much about the game , there is nothing special about it, the Graphics look 
 as they are from the 1990's , no story at all ( (it starts with a couple of thieves gathered around 
 a chest of gold, one of the thieves is the main character that you play with a women she goes to 
 sleep, next thing in the morning she find out that the gold is gone, ( what a surprise !) , it appears 
 that two of the thieves that were with here took the gold for them self's ) ) ,gameplay is dull, 
 repetitive &amp; way below average.
  Simply, neverend is a game that SHOULD be missed ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Duncan
Rating: 7.3
Date: May 28, 2007 4:46 am PT
Review:  This game has, as usual gotten a poor review from Gamespot. As always the player and the other 
 reviewers gave somewhat better scores.
  
  This is a nice little adventure-style RPG, in which the heroine is an fairy expelled to the land 
 of the mortals. She has hit some hard times and is trying to find her way back to the land of the 
 Auren.
  
  The game doesn't hold your hand when you travel so you sometimes bump against some overpowering 
 enemies, but I suggest you remember you have a run away button ;-) Also you can see the boss-enemies 
 so you can make an intelligent choice to fight them now or wait until later to get at them.
  
  The Good:
  The story is nice, the heroin is pretty and has a good voice. Graphics are 3D 
 adventure third-person style with decent art. The spell and weapons system are well thought out. 
 You can train up your different weapon skills adding new moves and collect runes to enhance your 
 spell book. There are a lot of different weapon available.
  
  The game makes it fun to gain new proficiencies and follow the plot. You can choose to follow a 
 good or bad path.
  
  The Bad:
  Why some people may have issues with this game: the combat features a turn based system similar 
 to Baldur's Gate or the Might and Magic series it is not pseudo real-time like Dungeon Siege.
 
  It also has some bugs so you need the update. However the bugs are no worse than say the Spellforce 
 series (which got 7.9 and 8.3 anyway, so how that for being fair gamespot?) . There may be one or 
 two minor quests which you will not complete because of this, no loss believe me. I had a few crashes 
 to desktop (CTD) but the game save and load times are so quick that it was not really an issue.
 
  
  Summary: not a triple-A game but a decent game that is worth playing.
  
  You will like it if you like adventure and RPG games and are looking for game/storyline quality 
 instead of graphics wow.
  
  You won't like it if you prefer high-gloss super 3D graphics and bug-less games (I don't know if 
 those exit though) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andruxandd
Rating: 7
Date: May 4, 2007 2:00 am PT
Review:  I only tested this game and i like very much grapichs, sound and story... but... combat style is disastrous, really. 
 I think this game get a 3.3 because that in specially. I will continue to play this game... anyway.
 
  
  Visuals straight is bad, indeed... make me nervous to not see what is in front of me or left or 
 right for large areas... that visual look like i'm in a helicopter and need to shoot someone... this 
 is not for a role-playing game.
  
  Sounds... god but voice of Agavaen thief-girl is... flash with no substance and emotions. For example 
 voice of Lara from TombRaider, or April Ryan from Longest Journey or Kate Walker from Syberia... These 
 voices are great and that makes any game more great!
  
  Grapichs is god and spectacular in some moments...
  
  Combat... fighting in the same locations-camera 
 all the time is bad and boring and hard with this combat-style-time-bar. Very strange and if u not 
 used will have a strange... after-glow about this thing.
  
  This game it's quite and take it how it is... if you have more time and cheerfulness. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WinWalter
Rating: 4.3
Date: Jan 31, 2007 8:14 pm PT
Review:  PC RPGs are hard to find and even harder to find, is a decent one. Neverend is a PC RPG that attempts 
 to fill in that void but succeeds in very few areas relegating it to nothing more than a mere pity 
 of a game.
  
  Neverend is a basic game that doesn't have a lot of flair or graphics. This would not have been 
 a major issue but everything else in the game corners you into seeing bland texture after bland 
 character, making it impossible to realize the game looks poorly.
  
  You start the game as an almost anti-hero. You are a female elf thief who has had her necklace 
 stolen as well as your group's bounty. Though the story may seem intriguing, once you see the first 
 cut-scene, it's hard to get into the mood. It has minimal sounds and no talking and yet everyone 
 is dancing around a campfire. Right from the get go, the game seems to have taken shortcuts just 
 to get you to start. Not only that, but immediately after, the group leader attacks you and you 
 have to kill him, which in no way seems plausible as another group member sits by doing nothing 
 (or he can help you but it seems lame either way) .
  
  Fights are random on the worldmap and the enemies get stronger as you do. This is not okay because 
 the towns and vendors do not sell higher level items as you progress in level. If you attempt to 
 power level and get ahead of the curve, don't bother. You will soon be fighting more enemies you 
 can handle that can kill you in one or two hits and then the next battle, you could fight wolves 
 that will die in one hit and where you garner very few experience points.
  
  Even the sounds in the game are non-existent almost. In battles, there are almost no weapon sounds. 
 This is even less preferable than at least the same sword swing or the same clanging sound. But 
 in this game, you don't even get those. Enemies rarely make sounds and it's much less enjoyable 
 fighting against mutes. At least, when you talk to people, there are full sound bites for their 
 speech which is okay but then some of the voice actors sound like they don't even want to be there. 
 The game was made in Slovakia and maybe the actors are from there as well... The music is somewhat 
 good but other than that, sounds in this game are extremely minimal.
  
  The graphics are simply lacking in this game. The textures are poor and the character models look 
 like 2003 graphics and that may even be a stretch. The game does run smoothly but the game crashes 
 a lot. Playing the game for first three hours, the game crashed three times. That's one per hour 
 and that was with the latest patch.
  
  The game was only 29.99 Canadian but even at that price this game is hard to swallow. The sounds 
 are barely there, the graphics are broke, the game is actually broke and you are losing money to 
 purchase this game. If you're looking for classic role playing elements like a team or a good story 
 or even half decent playability with a hint of stability, give this game a pass. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SIMONE_BUSH
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jan 21, 2007 7:54 am PT
Review:  The games reminds me of Balur's gate style games.
  It has fun quests and a hero who is not trying to save the world - just leave it.
  If they ever 
 fix the crashing problems (even with the patch) it could be much better. So save often if you want 
 to play it. Even so I played all the way to the end.
  The voices of the NPC's are horrible. At least the heros is nice enough.
  If you love the look 
 and sound of a game more then a turn based, plan your next step, this game is not for you. I loved 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: calibanvov
Rating: 2.1
Date: Jan 11, 2007 7:25 am PT
Review:  graphics poor, playability poor, heck, sadly everything was poor.
  
  This game will waste your money. Just trust me. I hate being mean and I know that developers work 
 hard to make their game. But this game is a dozen years behind. Combat is so uninteresting. You 
 dont know where to go, and have to walk off the side of the screen to see if you CAN move there.
 
  
  I was a level 2 guy walking around in the starter city. all of a sudden, a level 20 monstor jumped 
 up and attacked me. in the starter area! I used the 'run' feature, but guess what? it didnt even 
 work. Theres no con system, you can walk in an area of much higher level, or attack creatures that 
 are much higher level, and not know their level until your in combat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: khatibi22
Rating: 3.6
Date: Jan 6, 2007 1:18 pm PT
Review:  I just fancy what Meyham people were thinking when they made
  NeverEnd? that this is the 80s or what? I mean they should have seen
  some new games, the way 
 they are made these days,
  they are in gaming business, aren't they?
  Although I had my share of bad games, mostly demos, this one sure
  beats them all. I mainly purchased 
 the game because it had a female protagonist, there are less and less games with female lead these 
 days.
  I have played some second rate games just because they had a heroin,
  but this is too much. I just cannot see anything slightest bit interesting
  about this game. 
 I didn't understand the fights, what should one really do?
  How come you meet a boss right at the beginning?
  Is there a map? I couldn't find one. Finding 
 directions was quit confusing.
  I just played 1, 2 hours of this game, maybe it gets better when you keep on
  playing. But, no 
 thanks, I am not that desperate. I can read a book or watch a video instead... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sponny1
Rating: 4.5
Date: Dec 7, 2006 5:27 am PT
Review:  From seeing to a trailer i would knew that this game would be full of crap and that many people 
 who have been fulled by its nice coverage are going back to the shop asking back for their money 
 and saying that they has wasted 40 bucks on some useless crap junk. While i may also regret that 
 i had wasted my 40v bucks i myselft dont bother because the shop says no refunds! so i told my 
 slef why bother when we know we wont get our god damn it money back
  
  While there isnt much to say about this crap ass game lets talk about the gameplay
  
  While 
 its not as goos as WoW nor as Guild Wars its still descent in nature
  while there are nice looking armors and weapons besides that theres nothing other good than that. While 
 Enemy AI are not smart and will attack randomly its not
  fun as there arent absolutely not challenging and but some higer level monsters are a bit [A BIT!] 
 descent but neither so challenging
  Quest are nice for the first few tries but sooner as you go farther into the story
  youll soon 
 be felling that
  quest awfully seem to be more likely dragged ou
  and boring while so is boss fights
  as you can see boss fights may be nice yet a bit [A BIT!] challenging 
 and descent
  While there is the game may still lag even with a super fast and highly powered computer while 
 i havent tried online and i might noto remmember weather there was one [well its been a long time 
 since ive played as i had given up to how bad this game is]
  
  
  The graphics are nice and rewarding as environments arnet so bad at all and charecters are nicely 
 dtailed and so do armors as they look awesome in a manner yet it this part of the game dosent really 
 bring everything up
  Charecter gihts look dumb
  and lame yet also annoying to see how they move while monsters look more like mono especiallyelves 
 i mean the males
  look more like well women Sounds are very unoriginal and dumb fighting sound effects are lame and 
 dont match to the effect overall the game isnt worth for RPG lovers and RPG lovers should rather 
 stick to popular titles like Wow, Guild wars or Everquest but as People who would want to start 
 their first RPG i dont thing this is a good game for those who want to try and know how to play 
 RPG but for those who want to buy a budget game like this wont really regret it as now the the 
 game cost at 19 bucks
  while right now i am regreting that shouldnt had buyed and also unable to ask for a refund
  while 
 for those 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kentyro
Rating: 3.3
Date: Nov 9, 2006 9:02 am PT
Review:  Other reviews have pointed out most of the game's faults; I'll add one more-lack of technical support. 
 The game repeatedly crashed to desktop when Agavaen and Ravik tried to enter the swamp. I went 
 to the technical support site recommended in the readme and found Neverend was not on the game 
 selection menu. I picked another game and explained in the comments that I was looking for help 
 with Neverend. Several weeks have passed since my submission, and I have received no reply. Some 
 aspects of the game are interesting, such as the character advancement system and some of the quests. 
 Unfortunately this does not make up for the bugs and the poor support. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Caturah
Rating: 7.2
Date: Nov 4, 2006 10:26 pm PT
Review:  If you like Fate and Paradise then this is the perfect mix for you. I also think you have to be 
 female to really enjoy it. The female villains appear weaker in their cute little tights with flowers 
 but they are vicious vixen -- cut throat and deadly! Don't let their strength points fool you. Of 
 course, your character becomes more fashionable when upgrading armour and jewelry. It's fun -- you 
 want to whup the crap out of the bad guys with a mix a spells and frequent change of weapons, but 
 you want to look good doing it! Collecting runes and mixing them to create the spells you need 
 is a sub-quest and adds an interesting touch to the other quests which are layered upon each other. 
 There are usually several quests to work on at the same time. The quests clear-cut and logical. 
 I also like the fact that you can approach the game from different angles and make choices that 
 further define your character's personality. It's cool. I'm enjoying it. And yes... the bugs are 
 driving me crazy. I'm stuck at the swamp right now with Ravik and it keeps crashing every time 
 he speaks. Hurry up with the patch -- I have a lot more exploring to do! Cyn 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonno247
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 21, 2006 4:04 pm PT
Review:  The storyline is one of betrayal, revenge, discovery and ultimately redemption (or just more revenge 
 - if that's your thing) .
  
  Agavaen is a girl who was abandoned during a big struggle many years ago. Her parents, just like 
 every other creature from her race (they're called Aurens) were banished to another realm - ohh 
 er! Well, that'll bugger up the child benefit allowance!
  
  Joining a band of rebels and thieves, Agavaen eventually gets double-crossed and (following a bit 
 of a blame session) ends up killing her Captain. She's then free to follow her destiny..., which 
 is where it all starts!
  
  Neverend is cute! That's the first thing to say. The locations are nothing less than excellent 
 and the storyline is helped along by many main quests and side tasks.
  
  The first element that really makes it sit up proud with the likes of fable is the ability to choose 
 a good or a bad path. And there are many opportunities in the game to take those darker paths :)
 
  
  The combat system is very good, with a familiar turn-based HP and time bar situation. It's really 
 cool to pick a light weapon and then get a few blows in to the enemy before they've had the time 
 to land just one blow! Also the Dwarf War Hammer is a must have weapon for any seasoned adventurer! 
 There's nothing more satisfying than going into a fight with a wretched (a tall lanky goblin looking 
 creature) and landing a war hammer blow on them. DOWN IN ONE!! This satisfaction comes after facing 
 these things earlier on and being given a rough ride! It's payback time now!
  
  The characters are many and varied. It doesn't break any new ground in introducing characters that 
 have never been seen before, but the wide selection does provide a fresh approach to the game.
 
  
  At this point I need to mention the voice acting. It's a mixed bag here!
  
  Agavaen has quite a sexy sound about her and it fits the character well, but some of the others 
 are a bit weak. Like the shop keeper who has a Sylvester Stallone accent... hmmm, no that doesn't 
 quite work. However, most of the others sound great and it really lifts the atmosphere!! The retarded 
 mutant, skeletons, Gareck, Loth, Saarthan and Anexion all sound really cool. And so do many others.
 
  
  The music is very good with a sound that I keep hearing over and over again in my mind. It's got 
 a music score that you tend to find yourself humming every now and again.
  
  The camera angles during fights are great! They swing around the characters showing the best aspects 
 of the fight. On some occasions it'll end up behind a tree or in an odd angle, but generally it 
 plays well.
  
  The rune screen is absolute genius! A small memory game built into it to make spells! I love mixing 
 runes to make spells.
  
  Trading is a standard affair with nothing out of the ordinary, but it does work well.
  
  Conversations 
 can get very funny/sarcastic/involved etc. It's great to talk to everyone. 
  
  The difficulty factor is set by the player, so it can be as easy or hard as you want. I found a 
 really enjoyable game on the Normal level, but one day I will go back and try hard.
  
  The video manual is a great idea! I get really fed up with reading boring game manuals! I want 
 to be spoon fed with the instructions. I hope more developers and publishers take note of this 
 and do video manuals!
  
  I probably played the game for about 30 hours to get from start to finish, although I do want to 
 go back and try a different route and see the other ending! Replayablity is good in that respect.
 
  
  There are some mini games (like sling shot and game of chance) . They do add a bit of light relief, 
 and - if you win - a bit of extra cash!
  
  Overall it's wise to remember what you are buying when taking Neverend home. It's not supposed 
 to be Oblivion, Morrowind or Guildwars. It's quite simply a classic RPG/Adventure that does what 
 it does well and provides good value for money. If you like that sort of game, then you must own 
 a copy - it's well worth the time you'll invest in it!
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
