-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Neverwinter Nights
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/neverwinternights/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 24, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9.2
Critic Score: 8.9, 60 Review (s)
User Score: 8.9, 8,002 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Atari
Developer: BioWare
Genre: Computer Role-Playing
Date:     Jun 16, 2002 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Neverwinter Nights is one of those exceedingly rare games that has a lot to offer virtually everyone, 
 even if they aren't already into RPGs. 

 You might think that a game like Neverwinter Nights probably isn't very healthy for the gaming industry. 
 After all, this is the sort of game you could easily play for months or even longer. Simply put, 
 once you get into Neverwinter Nights, you'll likely have no need or desire to play another role-playing 
 game for a long time -- or any other game for that matter. And while that's unfortunate for any game 
 trying to compete, it's certainly a good thing as far as most gamers should be concerned. They'll 
 find that Neverwinter Nights is indeed the end-all, be-all Dungeons &amp; Dragons RPG that it's 
 been touted to be for the last several years.           A plague befalls the city of Neverwinter, 
 and you must investigate.    

 They might also be surprised to find that Neverwinter Nights is actually very accessible, much more 
 so than most RPGs, making it equally recommendable to new players and to hard-core role-playing 
 fans. Yet the latter group especially will appreciate Neverwinter Nights, since it includes not 
 just an excellent stand-alone RPG, but also BioWare's powerful Aurora toolset, which effectively 
 lets aspiring dungeon masters create their very own adventures. They can then get their friends 
 together to play these modules and manipulate them -- DM them -- in real time. So here it is at last: 
 the pen-and-paper D&amp; D experience on your PC. In short, Neverwinter Nights was definitely worth 
 the wait. But it's not necessarily what you might have expected, particularly in its campaign and 
 multiplayer features.   

  To set the record straight, Neverwinter Nights basically contains four different elements: the 
 campaign, the toolset, the DM client, and the multiplayer mode. The first of these is the brunt 
 of the game, and it's by all means a lengthy, highly entertaining D&amp; D campaign. It's comparable 
 with and in many ways superior to BioWare's previous RPGs -- or any other top-notch RPG to date for 
 that matter. If Neverwinter Nights offered nothing other than this campaign, it would still be 
 one of the best RPGs to come out in years. If you're looking to buy Neverwinter Nights for a traditional 
 role-playing experience, then this highly replayable 60-to-80-hour campaign, with its great story 
 and countless optional side quests, won't disappoint you, despite having a few minor problems. 
   

  But then there's also the Aurora toolset, a separate utility for creating your own campaign modules. 
 This is an impressive program that's reasonably user-friendly, considering how much it lets you 
 do. In the Aurora toolset, you basically get the license to use the Neverwinter Nights game engine 
 to make just about any type of fantasy adventure you can imagine. Some technical aptitude is required, 
 and some programming knowledge will help if you wish to script your own events, making the toolset's 
 learning curve not at all comparable with the learning curve of a typical game. Coming to grips 
 with the toolset is rather more like trying to learn programs like Adobe Photoshop or Illustrator. 
 That is, you can figure a lot of it out on your own, you can learn a lot of it through instruction, 
 and what you can do with it is limited only mostly by your own skill and talent. The game doesn't 
 ship with a complete set of documentation for the toolset, but because of the community appeal 
 of Neverwinter Nights, the answers to any questions you might have about it are just waiting to 
 be read on the game's official message boards.           3rd Edition D&amp; D lets you make some 
 very powerful characters.    

 In addition to the campaign and the toolset, Neverwinter Nights includes a DM client, which lets 
 you play the game using the godlike powers of a pen-and-paper D&amp; D dungeon master, able to manipulate 
 the proceedings of any module in real time and at your whim. You can take control over any character, 
 you can give players items and experience, and do much more. Like the Aurora toolset, this isn't 
 easy -- especially because you're something of a performance artist in your role as DM, and your 
 audience's enjoyment depends largely on your actions. But the DM client has an efficient interface 
 and is one of the key differences that can separate a Neverwinter Nights module from a player-generated 
 map for some other game. After all, though you can use the toolset to create a fun-filled stand-alone 
 dungeon hack of some sort, in conjunction with the DM client, you can truly create a unique role-playing 
 experience for someone -- and for yourself. If you've ever played a pen-and-paper RPG, especially 
 as the DM, then you probably have an idea of the Neverwinter Nights DM client's potential.   

 
  Regardless of whether or not you wish to be DM, the multiplayer option of Neverwinter Nights basically 
 lets you host your own module over the Internet or join in on someone else's game. Neverwinter 
 Nights doesn't ship with a built-in multiplayer content, but the campaign can be played through 
 by groups of players that can cooperate or try to foil one another along the way. Beyond that, 
 the game's multiplayer mode is completely community-driven. Essentially, in making Neverwinter 
 Nights, BioWare created a powerful toolset and then used it to build a superb role-playing game 
 that should be inspiring for any would-be module maker, and now, it has opened the floodgates for 
 user-created content.    

 It's really just a matter of time before great things emerge from Neverwinter Nights' already huge 
 player community. So even if you want nothing to do with the Aurora toolset or the DM client, at 
 the very least, you'll still have access to the fruits of other people's labors. The game has been 
 available for less than a week, and already a number of original modules are being hosted in the 
 game's multiplayer lobby. File sizes are small, which means download times are minuscule, though 
 we've consistently encountered lag issues when actually playing with others online. A lot of this 
 depends on the host computer as well as on one's own Internet connection, but at any rate, we were 
 never able to experience online gameplay as smooth as the single-player mode. It also bears mention 
 that, for various reasons, multiplayer Neverwinter Nights is much better suited to being played 
 with friends than with strangers. It's D&amp; D, after all, and just as it wouldn't make much sense 
 to invite a bunch of strangers over for a pen-and-paper D&amp; D session, having a bunch of strangers 
 in an online game of Neverwinter Nights also doesn't really work. But if you manage to get together 
 and play with some friends, you'll likely have a very good time. You'll appreciate that the game 
 has lots of role-playing provisions built into it, including all the sorts of "emote" animations 
 (laughing, pointing, cheering, and so on) that you'd sooner find in an online-only game like EverQuest. 
           You can hire a henchman to do your bidding.    

 Neverwinter Nights isn't the first Dungeons &amp; Dragons game for the computer to make use of the 
 pen-and-paper game's 3rd Edition rules, but it's the first to implement them so well. The standard 
 gameplay of Neverwinter Nights is roughly comparable with BioWare's previous role-playing games 
 in the Baldur's Gate series in that the game runs in real time and is viewed from an isometric 
 perspective. However, with Neverwinter Nights, BioWare has finally put to rest its long-lasting 
 Infinity engine seen in those games, opting instead for a fully 3D engine that lets you zoom and 
 rotate your view to your liking. It also allows for some detailed, well-animated characters and 
 good-looking environments. The transition from Baldur's Gate-style 2D graphics to 3D graphics is 
 mostly cosmetic, but the changes from 2nd Edition to 3rd Edition D&amp; D have a significant impact 
 on gameplay. Probably the best thing about 3rd Edition D&amp; D is how much freedom it gives you 
 in creating your character. In previous editions of D&amp; D, if you wanted to be a paladin, you 
 needed to play as a human character and roll up some extremely high stats -- otherwise, that character 
 class was unavailable. Now there are no inherent limitations on anything, and any race can be any 
 class. Want to be a half-orc sorceress or a gnome monk? How about an elf barbarian? It's all possible, 
 and playing the campaign of Neverwinter Nights will be quite different depending on which sort 
 of character you create.   

  Interestingly, unlike in most role-playing systems in which character classes become more specialized 
 as they gain experience levels, under 3rd Edition rules, high-level characters can start to seem 
 pretty similar. That's because character classes in 3rd Edition determine the sorts of special 
 abilities that your character will start with, but most any character can gain these abilities 
 later on. For example, a fighter starts with the ability to wear heavy armor and use shields. A 
 wizard doesn't but eventually could. Yes, you can eventually have a wizard decked out in full plate 
 armor and carrying a sword and shield. The heavy armor will negatively impact his or her spellcasting 
 ability, but the choice is yours. You're also not stuck with the character class you initially 
 select and can opt to gain a level in most any other character class whenever you've gained enough 
 experience. Some penalties may apply, but if you want to make a dwarven druid bard or a half-elven 
 ranger cleric, you can.           The combat is a lot of fun, and it looks good too.    

 There are seemingly countless options available, and Dungeons &amp; Dragons is certainly a complex 
 system -- nevertheless, the game does a fantastic job of getting you started. A bunch of pregenerated 
 characters are available from the get-go; or if you opt to make your own, you can click on a "recommended" 
 button that will suggest what you should do next, every step of the way. This gives good advice 
 on how you should apply your ability scores depending on your class, which starting spells and 
 special feats your character should take, and so on. The campaign's prelude starts you off in an 
 adventurers' academy where, in context, you'll learn how to control the game and learn about your 
 character's primary skills, depending on which character class you chose. You can skip most of 
 this tutorial if you don't want to deal with it, but it's a great way for new players to get into 
 the game.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (183 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Aberinkulas
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 14, 2009 7:51 pm PT
Review:  I hate thinking about games as products. Games are not just boxes on the shelves that we buy and 
 then consume like Cheetos or Bugles. They're something to connect with and understand (or at least 
 give an attempt at comprehension) and when I'm forced into looking at a game in terms of value, 
 I sputter and stop for a second. Yeah, the game has seventeen thousand levels, but what happens 
 if none of it is fun?
  
  The best value I ever got on a game was Neverwinter Nights, an RPG that, when I purchased my $20 
 Diamond version, could not be beat. I'm going to have to sell my soul for the next sentence but, 
 I'm going to say it anyway: Neverwinter Nights gives the best bang-for-the-buck offering any game 
 has ever attempted to do, and it's a great and varied RPG game to boot!
  
  Ugh. Well, then, moving along.
  
  The game combines the Diablo click-until-they're-dead with 
 the Planespace: Torment's  in reality, it's both games in one. 
 The closest relative is possibly Elder Scrolls III: Morrowind, but without the herky-jerky first-person 
 interface that made every sword swing an exercise in futility. It's the Western RPG battle system 
 at its finest (ignoring the annoying DnD battle system underneath, which is annoying as hell to 
 an impatient and whiney gamer such as myself) . Battles are about as fast as the player wants it 
 to be, which is a theme that really echoes itself throughout NWN: What does the player want from 
 me? Ask and I may grant your wish!
  
  I asked for a nice long RPG that ran on Linux, and alacadabra, the game magically made itself so. 
 What fun! The game also has a lot of fan-made modules (and by a lot I mean a billion trillion) 
 that are actually rather enjoyable when you get down and play them. After beating the original 
 game. And after beating the first expansion. And then after beating the second expansion too. And 
 then after beating the premium modules as well, which are all well worth your time. Yeah, there's 
 a lot here. And there's more on the Internet, and even more where that came from as well.
  
  Well, since we're looking at this with a value tinted lens, let's take a look at the rest of 
 this game's offering. The graphics are rather polished but have aged quite a bit since the game 
 was released a few years ago, though there's nothing terrible about them. The sound is boring fantasy 
 droll, the story is typical tripe, and the gameplay is funnish enough. As the typical review-man 
 would say, "It's impressive, filled with immersion, and is compellingly gritty to keep the player 
 going throughout their million-hour experience." Is there anything else to say?
  
  No, not really. Neverwinter Nights is a big, big game, filled with content that's about as typical 
 and generic of a WRPG as you can get, with a few added freedoms and variables to mix up the package. 
 Worth playing? That depends on if you like that kind of game. Fans of Western RPG games, this is 
 your heaven. The rest of the gamers might want to look elsewhere (unless you're playing with friends, 
 which makes any game about ten times better  NWN is no different) .
  
  Yeah, NWN was the best value I ever got in my life, but I never really connected with it. I played 
 through the entire campaign of the first game, and it wasn't all that interesting. It was good, 
 but not great, RPG gameness, which really is not something I value much. Other people certainly 
 do, of course, but I'm a little more outgoing than that, I suppose.
  
  Nothing new here, though there sure is a lot of it lying around if you like that sort of thing. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grigjd3
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 13, 2009 4:41 pm PT
Review:  The move away from the infinity engine wasn't a smart one. I understand the concept was to let 
 others design levels and do the work for them but Morrowind came out at the same time and that's 
 where the real talent went. The height of DnD video games was Baldur's Gate II and Planescape: Torment 
 while this game falls far shorter of those amazing titles. There are three key elements wrong with 
 Neverwinter Nights. The first is that Neverwinter nights isn't a very pretty game. It looks and 
 feels flat - mostly because of all those hard geometric lines where everything meets. While I understand 
 that this game was a move to 3-D, there should have been some artistic standard that was kept during 
 the move. Given the isometric view, BGII looked much better. Also, the tools to allow you to zoom 
 in and out and rotate your view are entirely unnecessary. Second is the vast amount of rules. Neverwinter 
 Nights has all the limitations of it's Infinity Engine predecessors and has become ridiculously 
 more complex. You are (thankfully) tasked only with the creation of one character in this game 
 and the choice of one ally. While this may sound like it speeds things up, the real reason they 
 did this is because how much more complicated DnD has become. I am aware that Wizards of the Coast 
 wanted the video games to support the new edition of DnD they had created but the result is a huge 
 process of analyzing what you need to get to the character feat you desire. The problem is, no 
 where when you deal with character creation or advancement does the game tell you everything you 
 need so you can get the Improved Two Weapon Fighting feat (which allows extra attacks with the 
 off-hand weapon) . I won't even get into how much effort it takes to understand the character classes. 
 The last major flaw in the game is in the main campaign. Whereas previous DnD titles were often 
 much more open and accessible, Neverwinter Nights seems intentionally linear. 
  
  I comment as someone who played Dungeons and Dragons when it was merely Advanced and this game 
 suffers because Dungeons and Dragons has suffered at the hands of Wizards of the Coast. Yes, ADnD 
 2nd edition had rules that didn't make sense. Why were there only human Paladins? Why do fighters 
 get a vastly superior modifier from strength? Why can't a wizard learn to sneak? These were all 
 very valid problems with the old rules. However, Wizards traded those old known (and often hilariously 
 entertaining) issues for a much worse one: too many rules. Third edition DnD and much more so 3.5 
 edition has been beset by more rules than anyone who doesn't spend all their time studying DnD 
 could ever keep track of. I say, for Bioware, the biggest mistake they made in the creation of 
 Neverwinter Nights was insuring the video game matched the paper and pencil RPG and there-in lies 
 the problem. Neverwinter Nights almost exactly recreated the experience of playing a paper and 
 pencil RPG only the very reason I play paper and pencil RPGs occasionally was missing - being with 
 other people. Minus that, I don't want to spend my time checking to make sure I have all the many 
 prerequisites to get Improved Two Handed Combat or to become an Arcane Archer. I want a simple 
 system that is easy to manipulate and a good story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ravenhoe
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 12, 2009 1:19 pm PT
Review:  By far, this game has me coming back over and over again. Not just because the experience changes 
 so much when playing through the campaigns (of both the original game as well as the expansions) 
 with different characters, classes and builds, but due to the sheer unlimited (and still growing) 
 amount of usermade campaigns which can be downloaded all over the internet. One thing that always 
 put me off games similar to NWN before has been the fact that the greatest design and flexiblity 
 of a game end with you finishing the game, which I always found sad. Furthermore, I never felt 
 like all those RPGs out there enable you to dive down into a fantasy world which is alive and breathing, 
 but more of an adventure game (linearity, no replayability) . But with the NWN universe basically 
 sporting more campaigns and online servers (user maintaned) than you could ever tackle in your 
 lifetime. Thus, you start playing NWN and get the hang of it, the adventures will never end. 
 
  
  The game mechanics are great, the game is true to the Ruleset and has been modded to included myriads 
 of character classes and races. The atmosphere is great, the graphics, voice acting, story and 
 even peculiar things such as sound design (snow beneath your boots) and the soundtrack (epic medieval) 
 add to it. 
  
  Highly recommeded !
  
  Henrik 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingLim
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 16, 2008 5:53 am PT
Review:  A Dungeons & Dragons game needs no introduction and Neverwinter Nights improves this pen and paper 
 experience with revolutionary 3D graphics and it's best admired when the game is paused in the 
 middle of a wizard clash where you can turn the camera around and watch sparks freeze around in 
 mid-air. The sweeping score and ethereal sound effects fits into this grand-eus world perfectly 
 as well.
  
  One of the most interesting things to do in the game is forging the various cool weapons that can 
 turn the tide of battle for your character in your earlier levels. Looting chests too. There is 
 never a dull moment throughout the entire game as the challenge is very well-balanced and you will 
 always think of creative strategies to handle the ever-changing battle situations.
  
  The lengthy single player campaign is a winner already, yet its true power comes in the editor 
 mode where it became a classroom role model for game design students. Neverwinter Nights is a classic 
 collection.
  
  KingLim 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krisbowe
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 6, 2008 8:07 pm PT
Review:  Maybe I am just a bit old school but I only paid $25 for the Diamond version of this game. I have 
 since played it for approximately 2 years of and on. That to me seems to say this is a great game 
 if judged soley on the time spent playing.....
  
  Was it too hard? no just challenging all the time.
  It kept my interest locked on it throughout.
 
  Yes I played Dungeon Siege (not bad) yes I spent $$ and time on Oblivion, far cry, Half Life 2 
 and a host of other games... but when it came down to it I unistalled those and came back to NWN.
 
  
  Graphics are great for its era in gaming.
  The adherence to the core DnD rules is boggling.
  
  How can i improve it?? Maybe Bioware should 
 keep rolling out premium modules (free would be nice since the have made a killing on other titles)
 
  
  The community and the mods have given this game almost open ended playability.....
  
  So if you haven't tried do and be ready to spend so time at your PC.
  
  
  Fun factor = 10
 
  I have reccomended to everyone I know who enjoys RPG games 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WoAKing
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 27, 2008 8:07 pm PT
Review:  Although the single player wasn't too great, thats not really where this game shines. I recommend 
 buying it to anyone still now a days just for the online multiplayer. This game had the best online 
 multiplayer mode. Since people could create their own maps and mods, along with the flawlessness 
 of the game engine, this game permitted unlimited freedom in creation possibilities and allowed 
 you to make/remake any story you could think of. If you can't find a game you like and are feeling 
 creative and experimental, you can make your own server, craft it to perfection, and have you and 
 your friends play it, along with anyone else who wants to join in. I categorized it under hard, 
 because of the games creator engine, which is a quite hard to figure out at first, but gets easier 
 once you get the hang of it. This is the best game of all time right here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iron_lutos007
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 10, 2008 9:14 pm PT
Review:  The Story Campaign in the game is beautifully presented. I had fun playing the Story Mode because 
 it has many quests in it and i'm the guy who does quests for experience and gold. I always do the 
 optional quests first before the main quest (is it kinda weird? maybe) . It's good that the players 
 have some choices like what to do and if you are in the good side or on the evil side. Its also 
 good that the campaign has betrayals that makes the game interesting and makes the character continue 
 the game trying to find out why the traitor did this; did that kind of stuff. Tis' also good that 
 the game had a toolset where you can create your own map/world to explore. I never really tried 
 using the Aurora Toolset but base on my brother's opinion (cause he usually uses it) , its great 
 stuff.
  
  I can't think of anything else to say; just one word -- EXQUISITE!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Peltz999
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 5, 2008 8:40 am PT
Review:  Its almost funny if it wasnt so sad. The Hordes of the Underdark is probably the best expansion 
 of any game and category in the world. Its almost funny how bad the main chapter is.
  
  It took me about three or four tries before i could actually force myself to finishing it and i 
 believe that was partly because i finished the HoTU first. The main story is avarage at best, not 
 very interesting and lacks memorable characters. 
  
  The areas are the biggest let down of all and they are basically copies of each other with some 
 changes. There are some interesting locations and dungeons but the reward system just makes it 
 an unbearable pain.
  
  The item and loot system is nothing short of abysmal. Its like the devs came together and decided 
 that they will create a game with the most awful item and loot table ever created in a game. Luckily 
 this is corrected somewhat in the expansions. I finished the main modul with a couple of hundred 
 thousand gold because there was literally nothing worth buying. And after some difficult battle 
 getting a small shield +3 is nothing short of devastating.
  
  Expect to force yourself through some areas just to see if it gets better later, but it doesnt. 
 The final battle is quite good though.
  
  The biggest plus for NWN 1 is that all the time i played, not once did the game crash. Its very 
 stable and i didnt come across many bugs. Although death magic seemed to go through death magic 
 immunity.
  
  The side quests offer very different emotional rewards. There are some very good side missions 
 and there are awful side stories. Trial of Rolgan comes to mind as one of the better examples and 
 saving Luce as a bad one.
  
  The AI. In the name of DnD, what the f*** happened? Did someone piss into the rig they were developing 
 the AI on or did someone even try to make this work? The AI is so stupid it feels like out of this 
 world.
  
  In the end i cant give the main module more than a 7 because it so bland and serves as an example 
 how not to make a DnD game.
  
  Its almost funny, how this game has the best expansion in the world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RESI_EVILZERO
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 24, 2008 8:46 pm PT
Review:  neverwinter nights is one of the best RPG's i have played amazing worth playing game to have it 
 lasts long the game has over 60 hours single-player adventure. The game is beautifully rendered 
 with 3D envirnments there is mutiple chatacters to choose from even create ur own characters is 
 the best bit you can also create your own adventure with the neverwinter aurora toolset that was 
 pretty interesting create your own world, characters, enemies, stories, weapons, items, legends, 
 ganmeplay scenario's and so much more the online multiplayer is very good always fun even though 
 there is only 4 chapters to the game but they are very long the difficulty isnt hard but isnt easy 
 neither this game is very well worth the play. I would deffenetly recommend this game to any gamer 
 especially those interested in PC games 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadoCrytr
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 4, 2008 1:48 am PT
Review:  When I bought Neverwinters Nights back in 2002, I did not know it was one of the best games I could 
 ever purchase. With me naturally being a big D&D fan and the game being based off the 3rd edition 
 D&D rules, I already had high expectations, and just as I expected, I was almost instantly I was 
 sucked in. The story seemed to be extremely original, dark, full of unique characters and plot 
 twists from the beginning, only getting better and better as I advanced from chapter to chapter. 
 By the end I was astounded and baffled at how Bioware had managed to make such a unique storyline. 
 Needless to say I thoroughly enjoyed every minute of the campaign.
  So just imagine my joy when Shadows of Undrentide and Hordes of the Underdark, the two expansions 
 for Neverwinter Nights came out! Twice more I was thrown into the wild world of Faern, but luckily 
 at different locations and with totally different (yet still as amazing) stories. I won't delve 
 deeper into either of them since this is a review for Neverwinter Nights specifically, but they 
 are a must have. Not to mention most fan made modules use tilesets, sounds, creatures, etc. from 
 both Shadows of Undrentide and Hordes of the Underdark.
  Speaking of modules, with Neverwinter Nights comes a toolset, monikered the Aurora Toolset by Bioware, 
 after the engine that is used for the game. In it players can make campaigns themselves, since 
 they have everything that Neverwinter Nights has to offer at their disposal. Basically, it's just 
 a huge sandbox world for the fans to create and share their creations. Many fans have made modules 
 that are arguably better than the original campaign, by making the best possible playing experience 
 out of the script implanted into the toolset (which is a variation of C) and some even going beyond 
 that. Not to mention that Bioware has released a number of 'Premium Modules' (6 to be exact, all 
 made over the course of the years, with Wyvern Crown of Cormyr being the latest and final module) , 
 created by Bioware themselves. Every one of these modules are very good, and definitely worth the 
 $10 they each cost. 
  To add onto the awesomeness of this seemingly endless work of art, Neverwinter Nights has a multiplayer 
 feature. In this, there is a huge collection of persistent worlds fan created, and despite it been 
 out for 6 and a half years now, a good amount are still very active. Like any multiplayer community 
 there are always a few idiots, but in my multiplayer playing time the consensus of personalities 
 seem to be very positive and helpful. 
  There really is absolutely nothing that I can argue with, or criticize. Perhaps my only complaint 
 is that Bioware stopped the production of Neverwinter Nights and handed it all off to Obsidian 
 to continue with Neverwinter Nights 2 and future NWN2 content. That really was a letdown for me, 
 but thankfully gameworlds and the almost infinite amount of player modules keep this game alive 
 even to this day. 
  
  So what are you waiting for? Get some cash, a bag of chips and a drink or two, turn out all the 
 lights and be ready not to step foot out of your house for months! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talonfire
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 6, 2008 8:58 pm PT
Review:  Since I played through and enjoyed the Neverwinter Nights 2 Official Campaign last year, I decided 
 that I'd eventually give the original Neverwinter Nights official campaign another go for the heck 
 of it, and perhaps even bother to finish it this time around. While I did finish it, I now remember 
 why I didn't bother last time.
  
  Neverwinter Nights is set in the Forgotten Realms city of Neverwinter, and the regions around it. 
 You assume the role of an adventurer attending an academy in the city (sounds too Harry Potterish 
 for my liking) as a "special student". Apparently you're more uber radical than everyone else, 
 though it's never actually stated why. I mean, you're level 1, with no experience; how could you 
 possibly be better than Mister Tickles the level 1 bard?
  
  The storyline of Neverwinter Nights is hilariously bad, but I don't consider Bioware the epitome 
 of great story telling like some people in the first place. Essentially, the story just involves 
 your character going on a bunch of Fed-Ex quests to battle evil forces that are brewing in the 
 north. Everyone knows that Fed-Ex truck drivers battle evil frequently, so the story is perfectly 
 believable, yes sir.
  
  The gameplay doesn't differ much from other D&D games. It uses the D&D 3 rule set, but since I 
 have no idea what the difference is between D&D 2 and D&D 3 I find myself not caring. You can create 
 your character from a variety of race, and class combinations, and as you gain experience and level 
 up you can multi-class them. Hooray for Fighter Bards. NWN also comes with an easy to use toolset 
 that lets you create your own modules for your friends to laugh at. While it's easy to use, the 
 toolset also lacks freedom, which was a problem that was thankfully fixed in Neverwinter Nights 
 2's toolset. There's also a multiplayer component, but I'm not cool enough to hang out with the 
 1337 dewds and their +5 haxmasterz.
  
  Visually Neverwinter Nights isn't too impressive anymore. For it's time it wasn't bad, especially 
 since it was coming on the heels of epic 2d RPGs like Baldur's Gate II, and Icewind Dale II. I 
 must admit, though; the forest tile set has a certain majesty to it that isn't present in NWN's 
 successor... maybe because NWN 2 doesn't have any real forests. Audio wise NWN is pretty bland. 
 The voice acting is above average, but Jeremy Soule's musical score is so painfully generic that 
 it's anything but memorable.
  
  Neverwinter Nights is a solid title if you're looking to play the modules of other players, or 
 create your own. If you're looking for a good official single player experience look elsewhere. 
 Honestly, those who criticize the NWN 2 OC obviously never played NWN 1's painfully tedious campaign. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxaction
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 26, 2008 1:39 pm PT
Review:  As a long-time fan of the Baldur's Gate series, I was instantly critical of Neverwinter Nights 
 when I first bought it. As I played through the first time, I kept looking for things that I didn't 
 like, be it storyline, gameplay, graphics, bugged quests, or anything else. The trouble was, I 
 coudn't find anything wrong with it.
  
  The graphics were simply stunning, including everything from spell effects to cinematics to the 
 subtle environment animations. The character animations are very smooth and intricate, and there 
 is a good diversity of animations so that the player isn't watching his or her character make the 
 same movements over and over. The environmental effects provide a beautiful landscape in which 
 to play the game. Everything from the grass swaying in the wind to the reflections cast by the 
 bodies of water to the sinister atmosphere of the underground dungeons make the game a beautiful 
 place to play in.
  
  The gameplay is also extremely smooth, and the learning curve isn't that high for both long-time 
 DnDers and newcomers alike. The interactive action trees make it so there aren't a painful amount 
 of menus to traverse through to find the action you want to take. Simply click your character, 
 then the type of action or spell, then the action itself.
  
  The storyline is equally entertaining, and doesn't disappoint those who are familiar with the DnD 
 atmoshpere. Character backgrounds and motives are artfully described, as is your own. You will 
 encounter several NPCs with whom you will develop lasting (or not) relationships, some of which 
 will turn out much differently than you may think. With all the twists and turns offered by the 
 main storyline, this game will keep you on your toes for hours.
  
  Finally, the online play is something to behold. There are a vast number of servers in which you 
 can start a character in, letting you either start from scratch or becoming instantly powerful. 
 Several persistant worlds exist, where the action never stops. This allows a huge amount of replayability, 
 as if the game itself didn't already do that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FallenAngelXBL
Rating: 7
Date: May 18, 2008 4:06 am PT
Review:  Hey GS
  
  Id like to put down how I Score games (this is important if you want to understand why my score 
 is so 'low':
  1 - Utter rubbish
  2 - Utter rubbish
  3 - rubbish
  4 - average
  5 - Good
  6 - Pretty good
  7 - Great
  8 - Greater than 7
  9 - Awesome
  10 - so great 
 ill never review a game that's this good... period.
  
  Graphics
  
  Neverwinter nights is a relatively old game, and because of this the graphics look a bit dated 
 even on the highest settings. However the special effects are of pretty high standards and the 
 environments still look pretty nice. Of course graphics isnt everything in a game like this, so 
 lets move on to...
  
  Sound
  
  Neverwinter Nights (NWN) has a great musical sound track. You could just stand somewhere and listen 
 to the music for a few minutes and not get bored. It fits in well with what happening and it really 
 does keep you immersed. Voice acting however is pretty poor in comparison, but still has some good 
 points. You can clearly here every word a character is saying because the quality of the recordings 
 are great and the actors speak slowly and clearly, which is what you want. They also show emotion 
 in there voices very well which is what you need when the graphics cant do that. However, the problem 
 with it is the fact your voice, and enemy voices are just recycled from Baldurs gate 2 but with 
 better quality. The same is with magic chants, they have been the same since the beginning of time, 
 literally. Which is a same because the acting for the NPC's is really good.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  When you first start the game you get to create your own character. You pick your Race (human, 
 elf, dwarf, half ling, half elf sub race half orc) , your sex your class, your stats, your class 
 package (which varies depending on your class) look of your character, name, age, back story and 
 voice setting. Its really in depth and you can just hit Recommend and it will do it for you, or 
 you can customize every little detail such as starting magic and skills etc. Once you do that, 
 you start off on your epic 60+ hour game. 60 hours may be a scary amount of time to some people, 
 but the story keeps pulling you back in and you find your self playing and playing for days on 
 end. Every choice you make has some effect on your character, NPC responses and the ending. Which 
 means you can play through multiple time and have a difference experience every time. 
  
  Combat is really well done. Your character dodges and parries enemy attacks realistically and counters 
 when given the chance. This is Auto attack, you can get through most early battles just by using 
 this. However you also have skills that you learn from leveling up that increase your attacking 
 power automatically or manually, such as Cleave which does major damage to enemies. What would 
 a DnD game be without MAGIC! You have plenty of it in this game. Ranging from the Arcane for wizards 
 and sorcerers, divine for clerics and paladins and natural for Druids and Rangers. Theres well 
 over 100 spells for each type of magic and each one looks unique and has different effects on the 
 tide of the battle. There is some balancing issues though, most boss fights are epic, but you often 
 find your self fighting enemies with a challenge rating of IMPOSSIBLE which means "prepare to die 
 allot" This is countered by the Stone of Recall system where when you die you respawn in a near 
 by temple and can return to the place you died to continue the fight. This is good, but takes away 
 the penalty of death. There is a small cost that really doesnt matter because you gain more from 
 killing the boss than you lose.
  
  Finally theres the Aurora Toolset. This lets you create your own adventure using a VERY in depth 
 game creation tool. Anything you see in the game, you can use in the toolset. You can share this 
 with friends or even play your own DnD online with the DM mode. In addition to the Online Multiplayer 
 where you can jump into a game and play through the campagain with a group of real players. You 
 can also download other peoples games and play them (some are fantastic full on stories)
  
  Overall
  
  Good game with a few issues. I would reccomned to people who liked Baldurs gate, 
 and fans of RPG's.
  
  7/10
  
  A good game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: einstein1407
Rating: 9
Date: May 9, 2008 1:07 pm PT
Review:  This is one of those games that you get "totally lost" in... You'll sit down on a Friday afternoon- 
 after a long day's work- and before you realise it, it will be Sunday afternoon!!! Time simply 
 "flies" past @ an amazing rate! Say "goodbye" to your loved ones & get ready to be transported 
 back in time to an amazing fantasy world...
  
  The storyline is totally enthralling & the game play is great! There is no complaints about the 
 graphics and the game runs really smooth...
  
  Then why not a 10??? There is a few irritations- repetitive dialogue from the priest in the temple 
 "Hail to thee!" I felt that I could strangle the little bugger after hearing the same words for 
 the 102 nd time!!!
  I still do not understand how to "combine" items, but I guess I can't, because I chose "Barbarian" 
 as my character...
  Then there is also the doors that can not be opened, because it "seems to be barricaded from the 
 other side...", but you learn to live with these small "glitches"...
  
  This is definitely a "must have" & a "must own"- even 6 years after it's release!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lovely_beauty
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 27, 2008 8:13 am PT
Review:  Now that I write a review 6 years after Neverwinter Nights released and have seen many of its successors, 
 the above idea comes to me like a conclusion. The 3th version of D&D rule makes the game simpler, 
 more popular but also less epic than Baldur's Gate or Icewind Dale. The most important point may 
 be that you can control only 1 character instead of a group up 6 full of complex skills, spells 
 and special abilities. No longer do you need minutes of pausing to choose and arrange actions for 
 your whole groups, because in NWN, your only companion is controlled by an excellent AI and know 
 quite well what to do. There are other changes that may make hard core D&D players feel disappointed. 
 Where are restrictions of choosing classes for a specific race, or multiclassing? What's the "Stone 
 of recall" or the ability to respawn for? And so forth... Yes, the game now seems much less epic, 
 requires less skill and offer more freedom. But with time, it seems to be an inevitable tendency. 
 With much more simplified version of D&D rule, Bioware still can create a memorable NWN 2 an an 
 awarded-winning Kotor. And I simply can't blame those game because they are easier than Baldur's 
 Gate. So, be fair with NWN, for it's really perfect in many aspects. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rogue_Kain
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 13, 2008 3:21 am PT
Review:  NWN might be the best RPG of all times , mainly of its vast and unique storyline.
  You start as a simple adventurer in a training camp where you are introduced to the controls and 
 the game-play. The 3-D camera view is very useful in some situations but sometimes it gets stuck 
 in certain places mostly when you're back-facing a wall. Another advantage of the game is it's 
 epic size. It has many side-quests and 4 main chapters which are, well... big.
  With the game you also get the AURORA toolkit. It is a very complex and hard to use program.
 
  About your character, you can choose from a great variety of races ( elves, gnomes, humans, dwarfs, 
 half-orcs) and classes (wizard, sorcerer, fighter, barbarian, bard, rogue and lots more) each with 
 it's specific skills. The terrain is very well shaped and detailed. The feeling this game offers 
 you is very profound. The traps you lay on the ground, the persuasion, the pickpocketing, the ale 
 you get drunk with, the interactive conversations you have with people all add to the realistic 
 features of this game.
  You can hire your own henchman who later becomes your friend and you find out the story behind 
 him as the game flows. The spells and effects of this game are really stunning. The way the armor 
 moves as you walk and all of those details add a great graphic value.
  The conclusion is that, the story is great, the graphics are great and the role you play is brilliant. 
 
  You must buy this game! You will enjoy every little bit of it.
  The rest is up to you to decide.
  (The add-ons are incredible) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkLarcen
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 9, 2008 8:58 am PT
Review:  At first when I saw this game coming out, I was like great another D&D game. But I went and bought 
 it, giving it a shot, hoping it wasnt as horrible as pool of raidance or however the horrble game 
 is spelled. To my surprise this game was amazing, now Im not talking graphics wise, I am talking 
 play wise. The campaign mode was interesting, but what really held my attention was multiplayer 
 mode. Instead of like in the past when all those other joker games only let you play the same crap, 
 just multiplayer, this game allowed you to log in and play on worlds people created with the building 
 tools. Completely different stories, new worlds, new plots, everyday! It hooked me!
  
  After all that, I finally decided to explore the other part of the game (yes folks there is another 
 side to the game) , The DM side. Where you can design your own campaign, and actually be a DM character 
 controling the action. That alone sold if for me, as I spent a good part of my free time designing 
 adventures for my late night friday gaming group.
  
  Ofcourse overtime, the game got better and better due to the awesome people out there designing 
 newer and newer things for this game, which blows the newer neverwinter nights 2 game out of the 
 water! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: suds100
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 30, 2008 11:08 pm PT
Review:  Neverwinter Nights
  
  It's a bit late for a review considering the game came out 6 years ago, but I just had to write 
 one. Neverwinter Nights is a game with an extremely involving storyline so if you're not into reading 
 conversations between characters don't read further! The first time I started this game I was honestly 
 bored with the gameplay and felt that the graphics sucked. That's because I hadn't even begun the 
 first quest yet. When I eventually got into the storyline, I found that it was simply out of this 
 world. 
  
  Before you begin, you are required to create a character or choose an existing one. The character 
 creation is based along the lines of choosing his/her race (human, elf, druid etc) and the character 
 class (sorcerer, fighter etc) . As you gain experience in the game, you will have the option of 
 upgrading your character skills and their class level. The ability to build a character across 
 different classes allowed greater flexibility in developing a character that you would be happy 
 with. Because there are only 20 levels for upgrading a characters class, these would have to be 
 spread out among the different classes you have. For instance, you could start with a fighter and 
 then branch off into a sorcerer (like what I did) . My final character was a level 12 fighter and 
 a level 8 sorcerer. 
  
  The background music, sounds and cut-scenes added to the feeling of actually being in the game. 
 I don't think it could have been done better than that! The graphics were not so grand but I didn't 
 notice it that much because the quests were so intriguing. Besides the main quest, there were optional 
 side quests that had some promising rewards. There were also optional henchmen (or henchwoman) 
 that you could hire. They came in handy during fights and picking locks but sometimes got stuck 
 in corners so you had to go all the way back to them to make them follow you again. That was the 
 only drawback of the game to me. Besides the henchman, you also could summon a familiar. 
  
  I will have to admit that I did follow a walkthrough during some stages of chapter 3. All in 
 all, this is a terrific game that is really worth every penny. It's not too difficult to learn. 
 I'd say about 45 minutes max will get you familiar with the setup and keys. It ran without any 
 glitches on my PC, with onboard graphics! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TakashiMaze
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 26, 2008 3:51 am PT
Review:  I've played Baldur's Gate in the past and thought it was pretty good, naturally I thought this 
 would be the next step for it and looking at some reviews, it seemed it would easily replace it.
 
  
  The game starts you off in a tutorial to explain the basics before starting on the four tasks of 
 the first chapter. It only takes playing through the first chapter to see what is wrong with this 
 game.
  
  First problem I seemed to have is the party system. It's non-existant, in single-player mode at 
 least. You can hire people to fight with you, but you have little control over what they do as 
 they are AI controlled.
  Speaking of AI, it's terrible. There were times where I was being attacked and the henchman I hired 
 was just standing there watching. Sometimes I move on ahead and it takes him up to 10 seconds to 
 start following me. The AI gets stuck behind bits of wall and doors as well and you can only have 
 one henchman at a time.
  The only other party element is the beasts you can summon with certain spells. In online mode I'm 
 assuming this would be much better.
  
  This leads onto the second problem, which is a total bore when it comes to fighting. Because you 
 can only control a single character (pretty much) , it doesn't leave a lot open in the way of strategy. 
 For example, in Baldur's Gate you would have a party of warriors with different skills to get the 
 job done, while here you have to make do with one character and if he can't do it, you're stumped. 
 Sure it makes the fights quicker, but ultimately unrewarding and repetitive.
  You find yourself caring less and less about the plot of the game because everything just sails 
 by, nothing really hits you as different or unique.
  
  Third problem is the technical side of the game. It demands a lot out of your system even though 
 it provides less than spectacular visuals.
  The water effects were broken and non-functional on my PC, using a mainstream ATI graphics card 
 which just created a flickering, polyganal mess.
  The walls in dungeons and in narrow areas are too tall and you often can't see what you're doing 
 because it's hard to move the camera to a suitable angle.
  Within my short time playing I was subjected to all manner of bugs, not including the appauling 
 AI. For example, somehow it decided my character would walk up onto the black void atop the wall 
 of a dungeon. Once up there, he could not move in any direction. Another example is that I had 
 been given 4 charms to give to 4 wereolves. The problem being that the first one I found took the 
 charm and turned back into a human, yet still retained the dialog of the werewolf. I had to go 
 through the dialog again and give another charm to make him change the dialog to what should have 
 happened on the first try (fortunately I had saved recently and so I loaded the saved game, started 
 again and this time it worked on the first try) .
  
  Fourth problem is lack of open-roaming. This game follows a very linear path when compared to Baldur's 
 Gate, in which you could explore pretty much any part of the world you liked. In Neverwinter Nights 
 however, you are only allowed to play in the areas that are part of the storyline. It's also a 
 shame that you can't really make use of the evil alignment either, because you can't kill many 
 of the normal people and you never seem to get hunted by the law or bounty hunters or anything 
 like that.
  
  In my opinion, the only thing this game has going for it is the length and probably a decent multiplayer 
 system. Actually giving it anything more than a 5/10 would be pretty generous since the only fun 
 seems to come from 3rd party sources. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ErkiB
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 11, 2008 2:01 am PT
Review:  This game is fantastic with few tweaks but lets get to good to bad shall we. I would say this game 
 is a good game and alot to do, Graphics are all good and the quests are fun. I ike also the sound 
 and how the gameplay works as well as getting to go almost everywhere in the game. I like that you 
 can have helpers to help you out when youre fighting otherwise it can get boring just fighting 
 alone. This game is rated correctly, I would say The only bad things are that the quests can get 
 boring after a while and they get rough allready in the beginning but I think it all plays itself 
 out well.
  
  Top 5 Ratings:
  Graphics:9/10
  Gameplay:9.5/10
  World:8/10
  sound:8/10
  features:9/10
  This game is surely better than baldurs gate and icewind tales and 
 all that other crap that is actually almost like NWN. One thing that struck me in this game was 
 the overall features in the game ,that this game is in a class of its own. It has amazing features 
 what other games never came to think about and is really much better than to expect. Overall I would 
 say this is a great game for everybody, not only people who like rpg, If you wanna start playing 
 Role-playing games play this one because its a good game and has alot to offer even for a newcomer 
 in the RPG world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kenderfriend
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 14, 2008 2:46 pm PT
Review:  I absolutely adore this game and i spend many hours playing it every day, and because it is half-term 
 when i am writing this I have even more time to enjoy playing in the Fantasy world! 
  Neverwinter Nights as you probably know is largely based on the role-playing classic dice-throwing 
 game of the wonderful Dungeons&Dragons which i played from about 6 or 7, always loved Fantasy. 
 The only thing is that my Dad stopped playing with me about 4 years ago (i think) so when i picked 
 this game up off the shelf for 7.50 i thought it would be okay. When i played it however, i was 
 entranced in the world of Neverwinter where even the character sheets look like they are from D&D 
 which i particularly liked. 
  I was very pleased at the beginning, you could pick a race and even type a subrace afterwards if 
 you wanted to (i typed kender after choosing halfling-i'm a fan of dragonlance ;p) . You pick male/female 
 and choose a class like D&D such as  etc. etc. You can 
 type a deity and even pick from some voices for your characters to use like 'nobleman' or 'innocent 
 idealist'. You can also change the appearance of your character and choose from a wide variety 
 of portraits! You can also multiclass like in D&D so i started as fighter but when i leveled up 
 i multiclassed as rogue as well (there are a lot of locked doors) but you can bash down doors sometimes 
 if you can't unlock them sometimes depending on the strength of the door.
  You can go to lots of places and there is a lot to explore, you are not as restricted as some other 
 games. Another part of this i love is that in the bottom corner of the screen you can even see 
 the game doing the dice rolls like (5+8= 13 *hit* does 5 damage) GREAT! or when you try unlocking 
 something it calculates whether your skill beats the complexity of the lock. 
  Anyway this game is truly a masterpiece, i give it 10/10 and i would ramble on about it more about 
 how brilliantly fantastically amazing it is but i fear my hand will fall off... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Melodium
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 31, 2007 8:02 pm PT
Review:  Good game. nice graphics, great inventory for storing your goods, good versatile character builder 
 giving you lots of options to choose from the game's library, and a nice bonus with the game editor. 
 If your the type who likes their RPG's with lots of story to it and the traditional rules that 
 follow the Dungeons and Dragons gameplay then this is the game for you. I have anticipated playing 
 this game and was a little disappointed with it at first but with this game you have to play it 
 for a little while before dismissing it. It can be addictive but I do have to say this game is 
 for someone who loves RPG's and likes giving a command to your character and it does the actions 
 for you. For me, that used to be fun but lately I've been wanting to perform the tasks on my own 
 without watching the results play out. I would like to recommend Dungeon Siege, it's kinda like 
 NWN but you have more control over your character with that same ambiance. P. S. I admit this game 
 is definitely addictive to play I just didn't realize how much fun it can actually be. After all 
 the introductions are made, then the fun begins with your quests. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aleperez75
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 19, 2007 1:45 pm PT
Review:  This game has accoplished something that, to my knowledge, no other RPG video game has ever done. 
 It gave you the power of become the dungeon master of people all over the world. This is the grate 
 achivement of this game.
  
  The cambaign is very interesting and the puzzles presented are no at all a piece of cake. You really 
 need to use your neurons in many instance in order to finish the game.
  
  The dungeoun master option is relatively easy to implement and gives you a lot of options. I did 
 a mini game that never publish but it was a lot of fun. I got to play a game made by another person 
 in spanish and it was good to. There are endless posibilities with this game. A must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CO_Cwaff
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 19, 2007 12:38 pm PT
Review:  Neverwinter Nights is a simply amazing game. Graphically it is a little dated, but that does not 
 take away from the sheer fun of the game. 
  
  The storyline is well thought out and it has many twists and turns which will have you glued to 
 the game just to find out what happens next. There are also many side quests and sub plots which 
 are also fun and if you are like me you will try to do them all just so you can get all that you 
 can out of the game. 
  
  There is a large array of class types and you can choose the class which suits you, be it the classic 
 fighter or the powerful sorceror, your character is fully customisable from whether they choose 
 to be good or evil to what deity they worship. 
  
  The thing that makes the game stand high above most other RPGs is the online play. You can play 
 with friends who have the game and play through the main story, or join a server which has been 
 hosted which can contain user created modules which are usually very fun, even though the game 
 is quite old now there are still many people who play it online. There are a lot free downloadable 
 modules as well as the option to download special premium modules which can add to the game which 
 gives it almost unlimited replay value.
  
  The toolset for creating your own modules is very simple and effective and within a very short 
 time you will be able to share your module to the world and your friends.
  
  I bought this game for a measly 5 and I have to say it is the best 5 I have ever spent and I 
 urge you, if you haven't tried this game yet, give it a go! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Baron_Kenobi
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 17, 2007 7:45 pm PT
Review:  Okay, there is no doubt that this game has a decent plot, and has a great game engine behind it. 
 However, this does not save it from becoming boring after fighting 100 zombies. In a row. Then 
 you get to fight 100 bandits. Then 150 trolls. And so on. However, if you download additional modules, 
 or have a friend who is willing to spend the time required to make a campaign, the engine behind 
 the game is very good, and stays true to the D&amp; D system. The plot is a little cliche, and easy 
 to miss critical elements if you don't talk to everyone, and miss some dialoge, but I found that 
 it was extremely difficult for me to sit through the entire campaign because it was so tedious.
 
  
  Overall, I am dissapointed in this game, not because it was bad, but because it could have been 
 so much more with better level design. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maester-Slayer
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 28, 2007 10:40 am PT
Review:  Before this I had tried a few MMORPG games, and hated them with all my soul, still do too. I realy 
 hate FF12's battle system. NWN however makes it a bit more entertaining. First off the music, to 
 me, great music can upscale any battle. Even if the battle is boring.
  
  However NWN battles are simplestic on their own, you run into a group of enemies, click one of 
 them, then your player does the rest on his own, and you just watch his health. There is no massive 
 party to take with you, you can have 1 summon, and one henchmen. Don't think bleak about this though, 
 this isn't a potion chugging game (Actually the potions are over priced and worthless, I'll explain 
 later in thsi review) . Magic users which suck at hand to hand combat, can bring a henchmen AND 
 a summon, thus giving you two party members, while a strong melee type likely won't have a summon, 
 but will have a henchmen. This really helps balance it out for the weaker magic characters.
  
  Although they only start weaker, you can right from the start, have your magic character learn 
 Feats that will allow them to carry huge weapons and wear heavy armor. A wizard tank, go figure. 
 And it works out pretty well too.
  
  Feats, as I mentioned before, are essentially skills, some are automated such as skilled profeciency 
 with slashing weapons and Cleave (immediatly attack another enemy after killing one, thus a preemptive 
 strike) to things such as the ability to use heavy armor.
  
  Levelign up is very rare in this game, you will lots at the start, but by chapter 3 you may do 
 the entire chapter and not level up at all. This can make the character growth seem very slow but 
 your weapons will make up for it. If you wish to spend the time finding every item and fashioning 
 your own weapons.
  
  As far as level gridning, you can clear every room once, and only once, occasionally new enemies 
 may come, but generally they don't. Some rooms you can leave then when you come back they are repopulated, 
 but its very rare. Thsi game doesn't really have any level grinding in it.
  
  Items and potions in NWN are very irritating, you will find a good 200 treasure chests per level, 
 and after 170 of them have traps, and 190 of them are locked, and locked with a difficulty to high 
 for even a dedicated lock picker to pick. You will find in them usually something like 25 gold, 
 or some random gem liek a topaz or something seemingly useless and worthless. Many of these items 
 are for mage users. The 25 gold, is for... space filler? Not sure because the weakest potion costs 
 well over 200 gold. the strongest potion is essentially unbuyable, but I can't give exact numbers, 
 but it slike, if you have 100 health, the highest potion will heal you 30. Meaning its really easier 
 to just use your callback stone and pay for a full healing, which will also replenish your magic 
 stocks, something resting can't do. At one point i was fighting an apperent super enemy that I 
 shouldn't have been fighthing, I'd hit him twice, then have to use the stone to go heal up because 
 he was so powerful, it cost me a lot of money, but I won, I got a ring that makes me glow slightly 
 (less that the ring I found on a zombie in an earilier chapter) and I got 200 gold pieces. Also 
 w/e I was doing there, never seemed to have relevance to a story line or even a sub quest, I just 
 apperently did it for no reason at all.
  
  There are player made modules, but most aren't actually that good. You can make you own however 
 for some extra enjoyment. You can export your character and use him in another module. or you can 
 do what I did, use the toolset to make an awesoem set of weapons, have a character go pick them 
 up, export of your module, then start the main game with your nice powerful weapons.
  
  P. S. Don't bring these weapons into online games, its just rude and will probably get you kicked 
 a lot. Some rooms will allow custom weapons, most won't.
  
  Overall I'd say this is a very good game, I never even heard of the DnD style until I played NWN. 
 And it actually still confuses me, its automated enough not to matter.
  
  If your looking for a game with a long story, lots of adventuring, simple leveling, no grinding, 
 and lots of choices, NWN is for you!
  
  I can personally say this is the closest I've ever gotten to the MMORPG fighting style, without 
 me totally hating it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monster_limo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 1:26 am PT
Review:  I had a very average PC when this game originally came out and from the get go it ran perfectly. 
 It's only now that I realise what a gem this game actually was. 
  
  I'm reviewing this game as of today and I still think it is deserving of nearly the highest score 
 possible. The engine is smooth, the interface is easy and once you get past the fact that the graphics 
 have dated slightly then you will have a great time playing this game. There's loads of classes 
 and races to pick from and the story is a nice involving plot with twists and turns. The level 
 cap for the this original game is 20, which may seem puny compared to the average mmorpg available 
 but it's more than enough to experience a great game. 
  
  Where this game excels for me to the point of a classic is the aurora toolset. Maybe you're not 
 interested in building your own world, but there's already a wealth of mods out there for you to 
 enjoy. Online playing really, the free way was a great way to enjoy other people worlds and for 
 the first time I enjoyed an rpg online with friends... without a subcription.
  
  There are currently 2 expansion packs, Shadows of Urentide and Horde of the Underdark. Both expansions 
 offer great stories and let you build a new character at lvl20, or continue a previous character 
 from your last campaign.
  
  So why not a full 10/10?
  
  The main reason for not awarding the full amount is due to the fact that the online portion of 
 this game has really diminished, this is due to popular games like wow and eq2. Neverwinter nights 
 2 was also released which saw many dropping their old copy to find the new version was a poor sequel 
 with many many problems.
  
  Enjoy this game, you can pick up all the addons and expansions for a small amount these days, just 
 don't expect there to be a huge community online when you've finished the original campaign. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wolverine_r
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 17, 2007 1:45 am PT
Review:  Back when it was released in 2002, Neverwinter Nights was highly acclaimed for its near perfect 
 implementation of the 3rd Edition Dungeons & Dragons rules and a multitude of online options making 
 it easily the RPG of that year. But 5 years later, does it still hold up to games which have much 
 better graphics and refinements of the same formula? The answer really depends on a lot of factors. 
 If you only like the flashy graphics of games like Oblivion, then Neverwinter Nights will most 
 probably not appeal to you but if you like deep, satisfying role-playing with lots of questing 
 and looting plus a great story, then Neverwinter Nights is the game for you.
  
  The game starts when the city of Neverwinter is hit by a terrible plague and has called for all 
 adventurers to help protect the reagents that have been found to create a cure for the plague. 
 In the Prelude, players start of in an academy where they learn to use the primary skills of their 
 respective characters as well as meeting up with one of the game's main characters. The prelude 
 serves as a tutorial and you get to learn most of the game's basic features like buying, selling, 
 leveling up and so on and is a great way for players new to RPGs to learn some the tricks of the 
 trade. At the end of the prelude, the academy is attacked by enemies of Neverwinter and all the 
 reagents for the cure are lost and this kicks of the first chapter of the game.
  
  Neverwinter Nights' main campaign is split up into 4 chapters each of which can be considered a 
 smaller game in itself totaling to about 60-90 hours of gameplay. The first chapter has you hunting 
 down each of the reagents for the cure and also tracking down the mastermind behind the group that 
 attacked the academy. Though each of the chapters do play a nice part in the story it is not until 
 the end of the second chapter that the story really opens up and the third and fourth chapters 
 are really a pleasure to play through from a story point-of-view. The story is certainly not as 
 complicated or epic as a game like Planescape Torment but is quite good with a good dosage of plot 
 twists, betrayals and so on.
  
  Bioware has really provided some good documentation to help new players get into Dungeons and Dragons. 
 The game manual weighs in at about 200 pages and explains almost all the 3rd Edition rules as well 
 as the different types of weapons, armor etc. and generally is the complete package for people 
 really looking to get into D&D. However it is not required of casual players to put in such effort 
 and things are made easier by NWN's character creation system which basically walks you through 
 the whole process. As in any other RPG, players start by selecting a race (human, orc, elf etc.) , 
 gender, class (mage, wizard, fighter, rouge etc.) dividing points among the various attributes 
 -- strength, dexterity, constitution, wisdom, intelligence and charisma -- choosing skill sets 
 and finally by selecting an appearance and name for your character. NWN really makes it easy by 
 giving this "recommended" button on each screen which suggests what class you should be and divides 
 ability points based on your race, class and so on and this makes it a highly accessible game to 
 people who have never played D&D based RPGs before. Of course, the complexity is there for people 
 who wish and people can really tweak the system to create the character they want including multiclassing 
 (creating a character with different classes) which is not offered in many RPGs.
  
  Gameplay is pretty much similar to every other RPG and typically involves lots of questing, looting, 
 returning the loot for gold, buying upgraded weapons with the obtained gold and so on. And as you 
 complete these various actions you will learn experience points which you can use to level up your 
 character to higher levels. Other than following the previously mentioned main quest you can also 
 take up an infinite number of side quests some of which are even more interesting than the main 
 quest and offer better rewards and some exotic items that may not necessarily be available in the 
 main quest. Each quest you take is also recorded in your journal which keeps track of all accepted 
 and completed quests. A handy map is also effective in pointing you in the right direction along 
 with having notes for important buildings like shops, barracks etc. as well as allowing you to 
 add notes of your own.
  
  The main player interacts with other characters through a number dialogue choices which have to 
 be carefully chosen since the game decides your alignment based on the dialogue choices you make 
 which in turn affects how certain characters behave towards you. Since character interactivity 
 is quite important in NWN it is sad that you get only one henchman on your travels. Previous games 
 like Planescape Torment and even Bioware's own Baldur's Gate have supported an entire party of 
 characters with up to 6 or 7 players at a time. That being said all of the henchmen in the game 
 really have a personality and backstory of their own and it is important to choose a henchman that 
 complements your class and abilities. Another disappointing aspect being you cannot equip your 
 characters with weapons or spells of your choice or select abilities for them while leveling up 
 -- all of this is done automatically.
  
  Combat is generally quite good in NWN. You have a multitude of weapons to choose from including 
 long swords, great swords, short swords, longbows, short bows, various types of axes, maces and 
 generally every weapon conceived so far in the D&D world. And for wizards and mages, the game offers 
 a healthy dose of spells including combat-oriented, mind-affecting, healing and so on. And with 
 three quick bars at the bottom which can be accessed directly (or by pressing Ctrl or Shift for 
 the second and third bars) you can pretty much place all your weapons, spells and special items 
 and never run out of space since each bar has 12 empty slots. The other slick aspect is that clicking 
 anywhere on the screen brings up a neat circle which has all the actions you can perform including 
 attack, heal, cast spell etc. which is really intuitive and east to get into. In general the overall 
 ease with which Neverwinter Nights plays will appeal to new players and the added complexity underneath 
 will definitely appeal to hardcore RPG buffs.
  
  Given the difficulty of RPGs like Planescape Torment, Baldur's Gate etc. it is natural for most 
 players to expect Neverwinter Nights to be the same, but it is not. Neverwinter Nights is one of 
 the easier RPGs and can be really enjoyed by even casual players. Much of this ease comes from 
 a single item which players get at the beginning of the game which when used transports them to 
 the nearest temple where they can rest up, heal (for free!) and return to the place where they 
 used the item for a very small cost. And since you can use the item even in the middle of combat 
 and generally there are very few places in the game where you cannot use it, it is generally easy 
 to use the item and return to combat fully energized which takes out all the challenge from some 
 bigger foes you meet later in the game. Unlike the previously mentioned RPGs, in Neverwinter Nights 
 you can also pretty much rest wherever enemies are not in sight again owing to the game's easiness. 
 Of course, none of this reduced difficulty deters the game from being enjoyable. Hardcore players 
 can push the difficulty setting all up which full PvP and even friendly spells will damage you 
 and this should be the setting of choice for most players.
  
  Considering how good Neverwinter Nights plays it is disappointing that it is not brought to life 
 using the graphics which are only slightly good-looking at best. Even when considering the game 
 for its 2002 release (the same year the beautiful Morrowind was released) , it does not fare well 
 except for some of the lighting and shadowing. Only some of the textures look really good -- like 
 the textures on armor, weapons etc. -- and most of them are a little bland especially the ones 
 on the environments. Most of the spell effects look quite good especially the healing spells. Character 
 models are good but not great although they move in a seemingly plausible manner and you will see 
 them dodge attacks by sidestepping and parrying and these effects look really nice. The lighting 
 and shadowing are really effective though and are easily the best aspect of Neverwinter Nights' 
 graphics -- multiple light sources cast multiple shadows on an object, the lens flare from lamps 
 and flaming plague-victim pyres look really good.
  
  No such complaints can be made against the sound. Jeremy Soule has become of the best composers 
 of game music and in this game he again proves why he's one of the best. The music is really orchestral 
 and does a great job in conveying exactly the mood of the game. When you are walking through the 
 forests not knowing what to expect it is really mild and will send a chill or two down your spine 
 or when you are in combat it is really bombastic with heavy drums and percussion. Overall, the 
 music adds another layer of immersion and polish to the game. The in-game sounds also don't lag 
 behind either. The sound of clanking metals when one sword meets the other or the sound of footsteps 
 when you are running or the sound of healing or other spells never get boring to hear. Many dialogues 
 in the game are also voiced especially for the main characters and it is uniformly awesome throughout 
 and feels like all of the actors put in their utmost effort to convey the right emotions.
  
  Neverwinter Nights is essentially the complete RPG package. Though the multiplayer aspect holds 
 no appeal anymore given the game's age, it is really the campaign that shines throughout. It is 
 highly replayable given all the different combinations of classes, genders and attributes and the 
 way dialogue choices affect your alignments not to include the sensitive element of multiclassing 
 and the insane amount of side-quests, you can easily get more than 100 hours of gameplay. Certainly 
 the game is not without its share of flaws including the graphics which are not up to par given 
 the game's age and the relative easiness of the game, though that should not stop anyone from buying 
 this game and experiencing what is one of the definitive RPGs in recent times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluecrystal09
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 22, 2007 12:39 pm PT
Review:  The original Neverwinter Nights is without a doubt my favorite RPG of all time. If you get involved 
 with every single quest, it takes a while to play through, but it is very much worth it, with an 
 original storyline and many ways to choose your gameplay. There are several classes to choose from 
 and therefore several ways to play the game. In addition, whatever skills you lack due to your 
 class choice can be made up for by a variety of henchmen who you can employ. I predicted that the 
 game would be good, but I didn't know it would be this good. Also, if you enjoy this game, I recommend 
 the expansion packs Hordes of the Underdark and Shadows of Undrentide, which are equally well-made. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zeloran
Rating: 7.7
Date: Mar 5, 2008 10:45 pm PT
Review:  The first time I heard (or more accurately, read) about Neverwinter Nights was when I was playing 
 Baldur's Gate II and a loading screen told me I would be able to import my Baldur's Gate character 
 on Neverwinter Nights.
  
  Of course, that was a lie. At some point, the developers decided to fully switch to D&D 3.0. That 
 was not entirely surprising, though, since Baldur's Gate II already incorporated, despite being 
 a AD&D 2ed game, the new 3.0 classes (monk, barbarian and sorcerer) and race (half-orc) . But I 
 digress...
  
  When I got this game, I was expecting it to be similar in spirit and content to the absolutely 
 brilliant Baldur's Gate II. Character creation was good, and it got my hopes up. There were a lot 
 of feats and skills to choose from (something AD&D 2ed lacked) , but after I started to play the 
 game, I noticed several issues I didn't like. The first one (and for me, the most important) was 
 the absolute lack of a party. You can only have ONE henchmen at any given time, and to add insult 
 to injury you have limited control over him; you can't browse his inventory and can't fully control 
 his actions. To me, who's used to the six person party of the Baldur's Gate series and the full 
 control you had over all your characters, this was nothing short of unforgivable. In more practical 
 terms, this means you should almost always multiclass, because you don't have the support of a 
 full party behind you . It also means, more often than not, that you should take fighting classes 
 (ranger, paladin, fighter or barbarian) for the first levels of your character, or else your chances 
 of survival will be reduced drastically. The game is battle-heavy, and you start with a level one 
 character. You level up at the tutorial, so for practical purposes you start the "real" game with 
 a level two character. Since at the first act of the game you find enemies around almost every 
 corner, if you have a character with low combat capabilities and/or low HP (read: mage, sorcerer 
 and, to lesser extend, rogue) , you have to rely on spells and ranged weapons, which in turn also 
 means that when your enemies try to move closer to you for a melee attack, your basic strategy 
 is to run away from battle lest you want to die. Even with a fighter, paladin or ranger, you have 
 to run away sometimes when you're against a strong enemy (or against a group of moderately competent 
 ones) . You have to rest a lot too, since healing potions and first aid kits, while not scarce, 
 aren't exactly abundant either; and you also need to rememorize/replenish your spells if you're 
 a magic user. After a while, the whole process of attacking, running away, resting and going back 
 to start again gets really repetitive and tedious.
  
  If you die, you can choose to respawn (it costs some gold) . You also have a "teleport stone" that 
 creates a portal to the current act's base of operations; so when you're low of health you can, 
 for example, teleport back to the temple, rest, pay to the priest (or whoever is in charge of the 
 teleporter) there to get back to your original location and return to the action. This, while not 
 necessarily a bad thing, feels awfully like Diablo and cheapens the whole RPG experience. The combat-heaviness 
 of the game also means character interaction between you and your henchman and/or other NPCs take 
 a backseat to the action. Again, this is not necessarily a bad thing, but I would have prefered 
 a more balanced approach between action and character interaction.
  
  The radial interface you use to interact with the environment is good, clean and easy to learn, 
 no complains there. The inventory instead of being a simple "one slot per item" one is a gridded 
 one, in which each item takes one or more spaces depending on size. Fortunately, there's an "auto 
 arrange" option and the size of your inventory is fairly large (you have several "pages") so you 
 don't have to painfully try to make room for that new item you just found or adquired. Graphics 
 are good, if not spectacular. Sure, you can rotate the camera and select between several views, 
 but the environments are somewhat repetitive (specially at urban areas) and all the characters 
 look somewhat funny. I very much prefer Baldur's Gate II art, despite the graphics being 2D and 
 sprite-based. 3D doesn't always mean better. Sound is kinda forgetable, however I have no real 
 complaints about it. I guess for me sound isn't really that important. The story almost feels as 
 an excuse for playing, which for me it's a testimony of how the RPG elements of the game were de-emphasized 
 in favor of the action ones. In the end, I found myself pretty disappointed with the game. Still, 
 when I managed to stop comparing this game to Baldur's Gate I started to enjoy it, specially after 
 I leveled up a bit and stopped dying a myriad deaths. The game does improve a lot with the expansion 
 packs, which among other things add several prestige classes, raise your max level over 20, add 
 another slot for an extra henchmen (so you can have two instead of one - that's almost a party!) 
 and let you have more control over them. I can't comment on the multiplayer/module creation aspects 
 of the game since I'm mostly a single player gamer, but I've heard it's one of its strong points, 
 so if you're into multiplaying they might be worth a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamer_jay
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 2, 2007 7:36 pm PT
Review:  Neverwinter Nights is a long RPG game with a good story and some twist, it offers a huge world 
 some cool weapons and skills and some thinking on how to make your character a INVINCIBLE one, 
 be aware that NWN contains a large number of quest that will actually burn up your time allowing 
 you to play for almost 40 hours or more if your really eager in completing it. There are wide selection 
 of characters and each has unique qualities and you can multi-class a character which makes you 
 get some skills that you don't have. The henchmans are cool especially Tomi who has a nice accent 
 whatsoever. Just keep in mind that planning for your character's specialization e. g melee fighter, 
 wizard or ranged fighter must be done immediately, and remember to be patient on the quest because 
 some are hard others are just crap. PLUS! the NWN offers good multiplayer game and a cool Toolset 
 which allows you to make up your own world, own quest, own game. I can say that you can enjoy the 
 game in a lot more ways than you imagine.
  
  PLEASE BE FAIR IN REVIEWS FELLOW GAMER
  
  Sorry for grammar this took about 30mins. to write =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rhii
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 10, 2007 10:53 pm PT
Review:  Ok, by now this game is fairly old and outdated, so you can probably get it cheap somewhere. BUY 
 IT! It's great! I haven't played online forever, but I used to love making my own modules. I feel 
 that they really developed the characters in this game well, and although the graphics are no longer 
 the greatest they used to be! Try it out!
  
  A quick breakdown:
  Graphics: Good at the time this came out. Now they're nothing special but this game defiantly have 
 variety!
  Environment: From fiery dungeons, to sprawling forests, you'll find plenty of areas to travel in. 
 Great in all kinds of nice scenery.
  Sound: Not too bad. Decent ambiance sound, but how much can you say about it? I do like the music 
 though.
  Controls: Easy to control and similar to a lot of the older classic RPGs.
  Game Play: Multi-player, single-player, and build-your-own world. Awesome! This never gets boring.
 
  Customization: So the faces are kind of blocky and the hands have no fingers... you can still 
 mod this game up. Make your own mods and add your own items. That's never tiring!
  
  It's fun. The expansions are fun. I love the story line and it's a great classic! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gear60
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 4, 2007 1:05 am PT
Review:  This game is the bomb...
  
  The game starts you off as a student of a fighting academy. After a short but effective tutorial 
 the academy get's attacked. The rest is up to you to find out.
  
  Graphics: This game is still beautiful years later. Alot of the environments are great to look 
 and play with. D&amp; D based games get more beautiful. Your items weapons and armor look's great. 
 Spells are absolutely captivating and beautiful. The best thing is the toolset that Bioware included 
 with the game. You can manipulate environments to look better.
  
  GAMEPLAY: This is where it really comes in. The D&amp; D die set system is great. You got your standard 
 customizations and races. You can equip your character with weapons and armor that shows it equipped 
 in real time. Combat is very shifting. You have skills and magic you can use to defeat your enemies. 
 They can block counter or resist. There are sidequests that have interesting paths and you can 
 choose to do any quest alot of ways. You also recieve 1 henchmen who can be chosen. There's also 
 a bunch of RPG elements tied in like if you attack a person in town the guards will come rushing 
 to kill you.
  
  STORY: The game is absolutely great at storytelling. You have side quests that have interesting 
 dialogue and plots. Your henchman depending on what type you chose also have interesting storylines 
 and plots. The main story is a major plot twist but that can be seen a mile away. Also you have 
 entertaining dialogue everywhere.
  
  SOUND: The game's music is great but the other weapon effects sound bad. It seems more like a club 
 hitting a wall repeatdedly. There's also the pain of the looped soundtrack. It's too short and 
 it's get annoying. Spell sounds are great.
  
  MULTIPLAYER: This game will have a hold on you for the years to come. Even years later after it's 
 initial release the game still boasts a familar playerbase. The joy of this is alot of the servrers 
 have there own unique module so you do not have to play the camapaign cooperatively you can play 
 your own modules. The community is also excellent. People help you in introducing how new modules 
 work and there's none of the immature children attitude seen much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fastpunk
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 15, 2008 4:53 pm PT
Review:  When you say Bioware you say RPG. Baldur's Gate had such an impact on the perception of role-playing 
 gamers (well, the more recent generations to be fair) that it's hard not too agree. Bioware's next 
 project was another ambitious game set also in the Forgotten Realms. The Canadian developer changed 
 the location though, the story now revolves around the city of Neverwinter, the so-called Jewel 
 of the North. So did Neverwinter Nights (NWN) live up to the expectations? Well, yes and no. I 
 remember the first NWN trailers in which Bioware promised a multiplayer revolution (in the genre 
 of course) . I wouldn't call it a revolution but NWN is a community focused game, which means multiplayer 
 is an integral part of the experience. Considering the huge community it gathered it's quite clear 
 that in this regard it succeeded. Just open the game's server browser and see for yourself: a ton 
 of servers and great variety, all you need to do is take a pick.
  
  Of course, this community doesn't thrive on multiplayer alone, after all, we are not talking about 
 an MMO. This brings me to the game's second best thing about NWN: user-created content. Yes, the 
 game comes with a powerful editor (the Aurora Toolset) which gives users the power to create their 
 own campaigns. It's pretty easy to use and the results can be impressive. And because of this there 
 are many good modules available for download, basically extending and enhancing the NWN experience.
 
  
  But, although I haven't read any statistics I'm willing to bet that a large number of people who 
 purchased this game did so for the single-player campaign alone. And in this regard, NWN does not 
 live up to expectations. Why? Because its story fails to impress, it's just forgettable. Bioware 
 games always have something about them, a certain quality that makes them fun, NWN just doesn't 
 have that. Maybe it was because of the forgettable story, maybe because of the two dimensional 
 characters or maybe the bland dialogs and generally bad writing... ultimately it doesn't matter 
 why. It just doesn't have that magic that made Baldur's Gate and KotOR so great.
  
  Of course, being a D&D 3E game, NWN has tons of options on how to create (and further develop) 
 your hero. Your choice in this regard can alter gameplay to a certain extent, but do not expect 
 to encounter too many significant choices along the way. Another problem that NWN has is its difficulty. 
 A competent build will storm through the game without encountering difficulties, there are only 
 a select few battles that are actually difficult. There are a few puzzles along the way that break 
 down the gameplay quite well... but they're rare. It's also disappointing how little control you've 
 got over your henchman. Oh yes, I forgot to mention that. NWN is not a party-based RPG, like Baldur's 
 Gate was, you only get to take one henchman with you, and you can't control him directly.
  
  On the tech side, things aren't great. The Aurora engine looks dated and the game takes disappointingly 
 little advantage of the 3D engine that powers it. Particle and spell effects look fairly good and 
 character animations are OK but ultimately, having 3 dimensions helped little. The user interface 
 is excellent though, it makes interactions easy and it also looks good. The inventory system is 
 especially well done, it's based on a grid system with tabs to keep your loot organized. I also 
 want to mention the camera which can be a bit of pain at first... but the fact that you can change 
 your perspective whenever you like is great. I usually used the top-down mode and the game looks 
 as if it were made with this view in mind but you can try other modes too. I'll wrap this up by 
 mentioning the sound: NWN isn't all that great in this regard, it feels generic for the most part, 
 specially the ambient sounds. The musical score will capture your attention once in while but it's 
 nothing spectacular... and the constant repetition of the same themes doesn't help either.
  
  So overall, Neverwinter Nights is a great purchase for people looking for more than just single-player 
 adventuring. It's an accessible game, newcomers to D&D and RPGs in general should take it into 
 consideration because it can be an "educational" experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: musicaz70
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jul 1, 2007 10:41 am PT
Review:  my friend got this, so i had to pick up a copy just to play with him online [it was 20$ only btw] . 
 i had seen and played some of neverwinter2 and loved it! this to me though.. it was boring to me. 
 the only reason i liked it was because there was the whole editor which led to endless online possibilities, 
 but as always, the gamespot arcade updates were complete trash so i could only play like 3 servers 
 out of a couple hundered.. overall a good game but its date shows and if you are considering it 
 just go for neverwinter2 now.. i'll probably be getting that one soon 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spanky333
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 30, 2007 6:18 pm PT
Review:  For those from some other planet, Jello is a clear substance that we are introduced to before we 
 have teeth, and we are still gumming on it's fruity goodness when we are old and again have no 
 teeth.
  It's just good stuff. Neverwinter Nights is the video game Jello. If you have an internet connection 
 and like playing co-op rpg's then why don't you own it?
  Seriously.. why not? It has a GIGANTIC online community, is based almost completely on pen and 
 pencil rpgs, is quite customizable and is endlessly entertaining. If that's not enough, the music 
 is great and I have heard there is some sort of single player campaign or something. Wouldn't know.
 
  There are two expansion packs, Hordes and Shadows, that are both included in the Diamond version 
 that you can get for like twenty dollars. I paid about 90 for all the bits seperately, so get on 
 your bike and go to Futureshop.
  But what about NWN2? What about all that graphicy goodness?
  Trust me, get the original, it's 
 a hillarious bargain at twenty dollars, and I don't have the second one so if you get that I will 
 never see you online.
  
  And then who would you have your Jello with? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: solidsnake14159
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 27, 2007 8:55 am PT
Review:  This game is da bomb. the storyline is great and really let's you travel to many places in the 
 Forgotten realms. The only change beside the rules that i see is the 1 PC party change. This is 
 the stupidist thing every. The question I have to ask is WHY. why go from the traditional 6 man 
 party to a one man party with a henchman. were they trying to follow Diablo or something. The sound 
 in the game is ok. Like when you parry you hear the sword banging off another. You can hear spells 
 when they are cast and after they are cast. the music is ok but it can get annoying after a few 
 hours of playing. Overall it's a good game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elorfin_Kendt
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 26, 2007 4:37 am PT
Review:  When first it came to my hands, i really dont know nothing about it... install.... and the first 
 positive thought: Charater Creation... finally some choise.... I like hallflings (but they are 
 rahter small) , yei a Dwarf... they got race bonus and bonus agains some enemies. But never escape 
 from my fate... Human... always a human... NOT! even here i have middle term: Half-Elf.... Human 
 with elf bonus... and they are good for my style of playing.
  
  The first times playing you will be lost in the game... main quests ..... side quests.... opcional 
 quests... jobs..... it's to much for one person alone... ye... it is... but in time you'll get inside 
 it and do well (can always relay on walkthroughs) .
  
  Henchans... it realy can became dificult without them... so there are a few of them to hire... everyone 
 of them with side quests too...
  
  Resuming... Lots of hours to explore the maps while killing everything that moves (it's true, you 
 can) , except charaters really important to the game story (it makes sense though) , excelente armours 
 and weapons to discovery or make... is up to you... but not easy... bith of them are marriege to 
 lady luck.
  
  NWN (plus expansions, that add hencham inventory control) , are the best RPG i've played so far 
 , even i've passed a few times and restart with my 20 level charater in original campain (20+ in 
 expansions installations) , the game doesnt turn more easy.... you have better gear, but the enemies 
 are more though!!! In the end.... you're always think you're a Good.... but theres always an enemie 
 to prove you're wrong.
  
  Cant post any relevant bad aspects in the game..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Firedrag
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 14, 2007 8:31 pm PT
Review:  Wow. That's one word that can be used to describe NWN. It is a great game that I highly reccomend 
 you checking out. The graphics are fairly dated, btu the gameplay is still fresh and interesting, 
 btu I thought that one of the main draws was the customization. You can create literaly thousands 
 of different character combinations, like 20 levels wizard, 5 levels Arcane archer, and 5 levels 
 rouge. There are over 20 class to choose from, with all being diferent from another, except for 
 sorcers and wizards. They are basicly the same. You can pick a race, gender, alignment, portrait 
 and more.
  
  The game play is based on D+D, but I never pay attention to the D+D dice rolls and am still very 
 succesful in my NWN single player adventures. This game focuses heavily on levels, most classes 
 improve a lot in one level, unlike other games, when you need 3 or 4 levels to make a difference. 
 Overall this is a GREAT game. You should get up right now and pick it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dante_tha_don
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jun 11, 2007 10:31 pm PT
Review:  This game was hyped up to the space. Back in the day almost everyone was talking about it and good 
 reviews and previews talking about revolution and new standarts made this game a obligatory possition 
 for every rpg fan. Thruth hurst this time because Neverwinter Night ended up as normal hack and 
 slash rather than true Dungeons &amp; Dragons role play. Especialy when you compare it to previous 
 works of the team like Baldurs GAte.
  Game itself is just boring becaue it somehow just ends with button mashing (or rather mouse mashing) . 
 The story is not as interestiong as other Bioware games and whole game system is somehow a joke. 
 Im talking about only 18 levels of experience possible to gain. Its not enough for rpg fan that 
 want to develpo owned character.
  The graphic and music are nothing noticible they hust are there and dont look ugly, Morrowind that 
 appeared in the same period was looking way better. This one as product is not bad overall its 
 good game but i didnt meet the expectation of most players that were disapointed with final game. 
 Good thing is the multiplayer mode with the being master like in the paper D&amp; D games but right 
 now how many people still play Neverwinter Nights? I personaly dont know a person that was not 
 diapointed with this one but if you have never been touched with the hype of this revolutionary 
 rpg you may quite like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingShivan
Rating: 4.1
Date: Jun 11, 2007 7:06 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game little more than a week ago, from amazon, with my excitement and anticipation 
 for the game rising each day I didn't have it. I've heard nothing but constant love for this game 
 ever since it was released, and finally while playing Baldur's Gate 2: Throne of Bhaal again, I 
 read one of the loading screen info shorts which said, The fun won't stop here, you'll be able 
 to transfer your characters from BG2 to Neverwinter Nights! , and I thought, Well you know what? 
 I've played BG2 and IWD2 enough times, I want something newer. 
  
  So here I was, anticipation and excitement swelling, imagining my characters being transferred, 
 and when I finally complete the installation and start up the game, first disappointment- CRAPPY 
 MUSIC. But, this didn't seem like such a bad thing, I'll just turn it off and listen to something 
 else. So I continue with the character creation, second disappointment- no subraces. Hey? Isn't 
 NWN using the same D&amp; D version as IWD2, basically? Where are all those cool subraces I could 
 choose from?
  
  So I created a character, a sorcerer. Third disappointment- THE WORST VOICES I HAVE EVER HEARD 
 IN A GAME. Every single voice you can choose for your character is absolutely terrible, for both 
 male and female. They seem to have some all-stars in the cast of voice actors voicing the NPCs 
 of the game, like David Blum and some other Anime favorites, but the Player Characters get the 
 absolute bottom of the barrel, as though they had raided a warehouse where all the never-was B-movie 
 actors were sent after they couldn't even act in B-movies, and forced them into voice-acting slavery.
 
  
  So I finish the character and start the game. Fourth disappointment- ONLY ONE CHARACTER. As opposed 
 to every other game Bioware has ever produced that I've played (BG, BG2, BG2: ToB; IWD2; and SW: KoToR) , 
 NWN gives you one single character to play with instead of 3 or 6. This wouldn't have been so utterly 
 disappointing if they had given you more of the Henchman, instead of just the one. Not only that, 
 but you can't even summon more than one creature. Oh, but now you get a familiar that doesn't have 
 a penalty when it dies. Thanks for caring, Bioware. Eugh.
  
  I play around for a while, but then decide to try to bring one of my old BG2 characters into play. 
 Obviously, Fifth Disappointment- NO PRE-NWN CHARACTERS ALLOWED. It seems that after repeatedly, 
 constantly telling their loyal fans that there would be the capability to transfer characters from 
 the old BG games to Neverwinter Nights, they decided it would be too much trouble, and abandonded 
 it. Without mentioning it to anyone. Oh, on the boxes, and on the product descriptions of seller's 
 websites, they don't say anything about importing old characters... but you can't tell people you've 
 changed something simply by not mentioning the fact.
  
  Then of course, there's the gameplay itself. It's actually mostly decent. They have the full complement 
 of what was the latest D&amp; D rules and spells and abilities, and it was all basically decent. 
 Except for a few things- the combat animations are lack luster and repetitive. And for a game where 
 there's only one character to look at the entire time, this gets old. Then of course, there's the 
 story itself... Boring! Nothing screams Go-Gettem-Action like a disease that needs to be cured. 
 For the first 5-10 hours of play, you're in one city, Neverwinter, trudging around the entire city 
 which consists of a main square and 4 adjoining areas, searching for 4 components to the cure, 
 coincidentally requiring you to visit each segment. Not only is the basic plot uninspired, but 
 the interaction between the NPCs that advance the plot is so obvious that there's no surprise when 
 the betrayal comes. The only surprise, in fact, is a death which in any normal Bioware game you'd 
 have a right to expect that you'd be given a chance to stop by using either your sword arm or your 
 silver tongue. But instead they simply force feed it to you in a cutscene video and whisk you away 
 to the next chapter, where you yet again get to search a few different ares for CLUES... and I 
 stopped there. I can only assume it gets worse.
  
  So. The gameplay is decent though often bland unless you're a spellcaster, there are no subraces, 
 you can't import old characters, and the storyline is uninspired.
  
  The Graphics are OK for the time it was made, but also bland.
  
  The sound is absolutely atrocious.
 
  
  The game delivers so little of not just what I had expected to be there, but of what I hadn't even 
 thought to expect there, things that my subconcious simply assumed they would include because of 
 every other game of theirs I've played, that even giving the value a 6 was hard to do. But there 
 do seem to be lots of other mods and options, so I give it that for those people who are good at 
 modding and programming and such.
  
  But me? I'm pissed. I didn't buy the game so I could play third party mods. I played it because 
 I expected the usual brilliance and inspiration of Bioware games like IWD2, BG2: ToB, and Knights 
 of the Old Republic (who's storyline is better than the second one which wasn't made by Bioware, 
 even if it doesn't has as many awesome goodies as KoToR2) .
  
  Bioware should be ashamed. Selling mod tools and a basic template for anything more than 15$, and 
 calling it a game, calling it the culmination of years of hard work by a team of skilled developers 
 .
  
  Ugh. So many classifications I wanted to give this game- Almost but not quite, Total Letdown, Disappointing, 
 Check your Bargain Bin, and Don't believe the hype, to name a few. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Beechbone666
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 1, 2007 2:20 am PT
Review:  Okay, I'm a little bit late with this review but well... ;) At the beginning of the year I finally 
 finished this game after couple of weeks of playing. I don't know why it took me more than four 
 years to check out NWN but I'm glad than even after that period I decided to play it. After absolutely 
 brilliant Baldur's Gate 2 alongside with Throne of Bhaal expansion, Bioware seemed to me as one 
 of the greatest RPG developers. Neverwinter Nights is not half as good as BG2 and in my opinion 
 it's very overrated. It's a very good game though, but still I can't imagine it being for example 
 on GameSpot's list of The Greatest Games of All Time which includes - again - Baldur's Gate 2.
 
  
  The game is pretty much straightforward. Besides main plot there are of course numerous sub-quests 
 that you don't need to do but, probably you would like to accomplish them because of xp points, 
 unique items and things like that. The thing is that usually all you need to do is to go somewhere 
 and hack and slash through hordes of monsters. But the greatest weakness of NWN is a story. There 
 is a disease, some sort of plague in Neverwinter that slowly kills everyone in the city. And you 
 are the one to rescue this city whether you like it or not. The whole chapter I is boring and repetitive. 
 Real game starts from chapter II which is the longest part of the game. Your character is strong 
 enough for some real fighting and higher level spells are starting to appear. There are at last 
 more interesting locations like Charwood with a very nice quest. The Host Tower in Luskan is also 
 quite entertaining place. What I especially didn't like about the whole story is that in every 
 chapter the game starts in some way from the beginning. I mean that the first chapter is about 
 rescuing Neverwinter, chapter II about something else, in chapter III your main goal is again completely 
 different and you can forget about what happened in previous two chapters because they have not 
 much to do with current story. And chapter IV is actually only couple of fights leading to the 
 finale. The story seems to be about nothing and it's just a pretext for neverending battles. Perhaps 
 the only interesting puzzle in the game is in the Creator ruins in chapter three however, it is 
 still rather too simple and obvious.
  
  Ok, enough of complaining. Neverwinter Nights is not a bad game after all. Combat is that element 
 of the game that can keep you in front of PC for long hours. Difficulty level is just right. I 
 love these battles that at the first try seem to be impossible to win, but after couple of times 
 playing them you are starting to see things different, you change your tactics and finally you 
 beat the guts out of your opponent. The good thing in NWN is also that it's a single person journey. 
 You can have at most one more NPC companion and one summoned creature. Due to this you gain experience 
 levels faster, so the path from a rookie to a tough character is not very long.
  
  Graphics, sound and all technical stuff is at very nice level for a five-year-old game. There's 
 not much to talk about, just look at some screens.
  
  Neverwinter Nights disappointed me a little although, it's a game definitely worth playing that 
 can be recommended for every cRPG enthusiast as myself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shehzad202
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 5, 2007 6:22 am PT
Review:  My first experience with NWN was ho-hum. Being spoiled by Fallout, Baldur's Gate and the brilliant 
 Planescape: Torment, I was highly disappointed by the hack-n-slash nature of the NWN campaign. 
 Yes, the graphical leap was not what was expected, either.
  
  I put aside the game for a while, only to pick it up when the expansions launched. I subsequently 
 ventured online, and found the magnificent user-created modules, some of which were superior to 
 the official campaign. And then I saw the persistent worlds. The online community feel is the closest 
 you can get to a PnP D&amp; D experience. This makes for an infinitely extendable game with cooperative 
 or competitive play -- 3 years down, I am still playing online. It is almost like an MMPORPG, except 
 not quite so massive .
  
  For the naysayers, venture online, join a persistent world, any one of them. You will understand! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pedy_spider
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 28, 2007 12:26 am PT
Review:  at first it's a little hard to learn how to play specially for whom haven't played RPG games. but 
 after a while it become interesting and at the middle of first chapter it will stuck you in front 
 of pc. i can remember 11 hours playing without a minute break!!!
  one of the most interesting parts of the game is collecting new items and using them specially 
 with holy races like wizard.
  this was my first RPG game. at first i chose fighter and was surprised by everything. as the second 
 time i have started the game by wizard. it was completely another game. the whole gameplay changed, 
 also more surprising. but so complex for naive players.
  i suggest advance players to start with holy races. but beginners must start with normal races!
 
  the secondary objective are so much and can be more interesting than main story, but sometimes 
 become repetitive. but generally the story is well.
  graphic is not very important in RPG game but details are so artistic in Neverwinter.
  
  after 
 all the game is worth to play many times and don't become repetitive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iLoveFire
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 26, 2007 7:05 am PT
Review:  Neverwinter Nights in my opinion is a game much better than WoW because you get to play for free 
 after you buy the game and online play is optional. In WoW you have to pay to play every month. 
 I think it's a game worth buying and trying out because its only $20 at the most. It also has the 
 NWN toolset that allows you to create your own campaine in NWN. The toolset is fun to play around 
 with because your game can be as simple or as complex as you like. Online play is fun because you 
 can play other peoples modules or host you own. In conclusion I recomend NWN to any gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kellerwe
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 20, 2007 6:36 am PT
Review:  Having played the entire Baldur's Gate series a few years back and finally getting my own copy 
 of Neverwinter Nights, almost five years after it's release, I was really intrigued to find out 
 if they could better themselves in this series.
  
  Well, in short, it's been worth the five year wait for me. The game is simply superb - but (there's 
 always a but to everything isn't there) - only if you enjoy the true application of pen and paper 
 D&amp; D rules in your RPG experience.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  It simply wouldn't be fair to compare this game with something more open-ended like Oblivion for 
 example, since the application of D&amp; D rules as approached by BioWare may seem somewhat restrictive 
 at first and may create the impression that control over certain situations, especially during 
 combat, are very limited from a player perspective.
  
  This is really where the challenge of character building comes in as far as I can see. When one 
 first starts playing the game, you almost get the same feeling as when playing Diablo or Titan 
 Quest for example, especially since combat will initially entail almost a single click on the target 
 beast at which point the hybrid turn-based D&amp; D rules take over and determine the outcome of 
 the battle if you will.
  
  Once you really start getting into the game however, you soon find that building a powerful character 
 here is just as important as it was in those early days when we spent many a night playing the 
 old pen and paper D&amp; D.
  
  From that point of view therefore, in real D&amp; D fashion, true enjoyment as far as the gameplay 
 is concerned will only come through spending many hours trying different character skills, feat 
 and spell combinations to get through the basic single-player campaign. If you are the kind of 
 RPG player who finds more enjoyment out of controlling the actual combat events, i. e. parrying, 
 slashing and hacking, then there's a real danger that you may find this game boring at first.
 
  
  As far as the rest of the gameplay is concerned, the user interface is really slick and works very 
 efficiently, given the game philosophy described above.
  
  Graphics:
  
  Five years after it's first release, it obviously doesn't compare well with Oblivion or even S. T. A. L. K. E. R. 
 (not that the latter is a true RPG by any stretch of the imagination anyway) , but considering its 
 peers in 2002, the graphics are right up there for that time.
  
  Yes, most of the models are missing many polygons and the shading is rather rudimentary compared 
 to modern standards, but then again, this was 2002!
  
  In general, the overall look and feel is really good, with transparent overlays used for inventory, 
 character sheets and dialog boxes, while items such as weapons and those old potion goodies really 
 look quite neat.
  
  My biggest complaint here would be the fairly strange camera modes used by BioWare. I constantly 
 feel the need to shift the screen around to see what's going on. There's definitely some room for 
 improvement here perhaps.
  
  Sound:
  
  The same analysis would apply to the sound which is generally quite good, although some of the 
 voice-overs feel a bit forced as if they were added as an after-thought.
  
  Value:
  
  Many, many, many hours of fun for your buck here.
  
  Who Should Get It:
  
  Everyone who 
 enjoys the true, and I mean to the letter of the word true, D&amp; D rules in their RPG experience.
 
  
  Who Shouldn't Bother:
  
  Anyone who thought they were getting a so-called Action RPG or more open-ended game like Oblivion 
 for example - assuming of course you enjoy RPGs to begin with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dcangel
Rating: 4.4
Date: Apr 15, 2007 6:17 pm PT
Review:  I'm sorry, but I have so far tried to get into this damn game on four (count 'em) separate occasions, 
 and I have to say I simply fail to see what all the fuss is about. Neverwinter Nights is a major 
 disappointment on almost every level. It's almost as if they spent 99% of the development process 
 programming a game engine, then spent the last ten minutes before the publishing deadline in writing 
 a single-player quest.
  
  The graphics, even for the time of release, are merely adequate, with low-polygon characters and 
 locales having very little character or individuality. Sound is good enough but nothing to write 
 home about. The musical score is pretty appropriate (if forgettable) , and the voice acting is at 
 least adequate. The real sticking point here, though, is the utter tedium of the gameplay. It's 
 point-and-click-a-rama here, folks, with little actual skill involved. Other than the skill of 
 swearing obscenely at your dude when he randomly fails to parry a broadsword aimed at his head, 
 leading to Game Over yet again. Couple this with a misbehaving third-person camera and generally 
 poor control system, and you have a recipe for disaster. The core focus of the game seems to be 
 combat, with any attempt at actually developing a believable character taking a significant backseat, 
 which would be fine if the combat system wasn't utterly broken. Against more than one enemy early 
 on in the game, your chances of survival are very slim because of the sort of turn-based nature 
 of the combat, and the omission of any meaningful user control. The D&amp; D rules may be appropriate 
 for tabletop gaming, but here they are simply limiting to the game's flow. I mean, come on - this 
 is a computer game, and thus the only reason to use such antiquated devices as dice rolls is verisimilitude, 
 which is a bad thing in this case. This, in fact, is the problem with most of the (admittedly few) 
 RPGs I've played - they rely too heavily on arbitrary rules and random numbers. In my humble opinion, 
 computer role playing shouldn't be about counter-intuitive statistics and linear quest lines - 
 it should be about the freedom to do whatever you desire, creating your character as you play solely 
 through your interaction with the world around you. That's role playing. Probably the best feature 
 of this game is its extensible (via user-written modules) nature, and the fact that you can play 
 online with one person acting as Dungeon Master, which I can see being cool if you're already fluent 
 in D&amp; D. The game also still has a thriving online community, even so long after release. In 
 this, at least, Bioware have come out on top, hence the high Value rating. However, if you're after 
 a compelling single-player roleplaying experience, I'd suggest Morrowind or Oblivion instead, as 
 both of these games are closer to the idealized RPG I alluded to above. Neverwinter Nights is more 
 akin to work, and therefore I won't be playing it again, nor will I ever go near a D&amp; D-based 
 computer RPG again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SwE3tNeZZ
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 10, 2007 1:47 am PT
Review:  I think this game is awesome, especially for hard-core DnD fans... One thing I do have to say is 
 that the game guide that gamespot has needs some corrections... Like the cloak you get for many-starred 
 guild (magic users) it comes with Electrical Resistance 10/-, Fire Resistance 10/-, Blue Light 
 (10m) , and Concetration +2... The guide says it comes with +2 AC and is immune to sneak attacks... 
 Other than that I think this game is worth playing hours and hours... I'm over here in Iraq so 
 when I have time off I go straight to the game and play for hours on end... I like how they put 
 in the DnD rule system and made the game similar to DnD... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: happy_go_lucky
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 4, 2007 10:40 pm PT
Review:  like I said before One of the best rpg games EVER
  the fighting system is quite boring because its dice roll turn by turn type (like runescape kinda 
 only better) but the whole tool set thing is awsome sometimes I sit in my room all day making a 
 map (mostly yogana COMING SOON VERY SOON)
  and with scripting the results can be limitless ALL HAIL THIS GAME
  (Not as good as morrowind) h 
 h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h H H H H H H H H H H H H h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h 
 h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h hh hh h h
  (just to take up space) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peacebringer
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 26, 2007 12:46 am PT
Review:  I bought neverwinter expecting to be able to go online and start mastering a player and show other 
 players, how well i can play. well wrong game i guess. the servers on NWN all are running differant 
 mods. this wouldn't be bad if the fact you had to make a toon for every server you play on. anyone 
 ever think what would happen if the person running your server stops running it and you would have 
 to start from lvl 1 again. this is my hugest letdown with NWN. if you don't mind all that NWN is 
 a good multiplayer game. The one player game is really good and the story is presented very well 
 and makes you wanna keep going. Even if all the servers let you use the same toon the way you play 
 isn't really meant for MMO play and may find melee killing everything before you can cast a spell 
 or shoot and arrow.
  
  If your looking for quick RPG for good online play this probally isn't your title. (See my Titan 
 Quest or WOW BC reviews)
  If your looking for a good RPG to add to your game colletion this is a good pic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alkpaz
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 20, 2007 11:02 pm PT
Review:  The one thing NWN has over BG2 is mutiplayer and (of course) graphics.. Otherwise the game lacks 
 a very enthralling story.. Note: I am talking about NWN not the expansions.. which one of the expansions 
 was better than the original game.. Hordes.. I don't think I need to get into the story and how 
 overall bland it really is ... since many other reviews are posted here. But the other factor is 
 combat.. sometimes the combat is so lengthy that it feels like a hack/slash fest rather than a 
 true to form RPG. The environments are nice and well throught out but it just seemed a little too 
 drag-on .. Its the way the game is designed.. nothing more.. more like a feeling.. The 3rd edition 
 rules are pretty much a mainstay now.. with games like The Temple of Elemental Evil.. KOTOR/2 etc.. 
 But this is the first game to use the ruleset. That goes without saying that the gameplay is great. 
 Playing the game now, it has aged fairly well.. the only gratifying factor lies in its second expansion.. 
 Multiplayer is what the games strength lies.. and is the only reason to play the original game.. 
 Its sad that the single player portion was toned down for the multi.. otherwise it would have been 
 a superb game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sieg6529
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 16, 2007 12:56 pm PT
Review:  First, it must be known that I never was into D&amp; D. I don't like playing dice games in general, 
 mostly because I lose the damn things and then step on it later, fall, and crack my lumbar vertebra. 
 Gasp, I haven't even played Baldur's Gate or Icewind Dale. However, I thoroughly enjoyed my Neverwinter 
 Nights experience. What I didn't like about the game: voice acting and very little interaction 
 with NPCs. Yeah, I know that I, a person who nursed himself on Squaresoft for a decade, is expecting 
 too much. However, I am quickly became sick of all the flesh sacks standing around who had the 
 same exact canned responses as the meat sacks in the previous area. Also, all the voice-acting 
 seemed a little overdone and the music was pretty bland. Overall, graphics were presented well. 
 I only have a low-end Radeon, so I wasn't able to max-out the anti-aliasing and run at highest 
 quality without major slow-down. I was still impressed with the attention to character and environment 
 detail. Up close, characters such as those goddamned NPCs who populated the towns and provided 
 nothing more than a chance to boost my EVIL alignment, were heavy on the polygons. There is also 
 some serious clipping, but I think that it serves to give the player a clear view. If I had a power-house 
 graphics card, I would have been more impressed. The real fun comes from the gameplay. From the 
 very beginning, you have nearly complete control over your character's traits. Race, gender, body 
 type (an overly thin option would have balanced out the fat-@$$ option) , alignment (Good and evil 
 and everything between) , class (Wizard, Barbarian, etc) , and abilities. After that, one can choose 
 which spells, feats, and personality characteristics (intelligence, strength, dexterity, etc.) . 
 So it takes a long time just to start the game. Once you do, however, the game walks you through 
 a non-intensive training period where you learn the game basics. If you wish to start a new game 
 after completing a level, you can actually start at the last level completed. Combat really isn't 
 that intense because you can always press space bar to pause the game and allow time to make a 
 decision as to how to proceed. There is a linear plot with straightforward goals, but the best 
 part of the game is the questing. Running errands, exacting revenge, treasure hunting, and finding 
 people (or their remains) is a lot more fun than it sounds and yields lots of goodies. So there 
 is lots of dungeon, cave, and tomb crawling to be enjoyed. Another fun feature is the use of henchmen 
 and familiars, the latter being only available to the wizards and sorcerors. There are, I believe, 
 6 henchmen who have varying traits. So if your character is highly adept and magic but kind of 
 a pansy, you need to hire a meat monkey to take and deal physical damage for you. Conversely, a 
 wizard, rogue, barbarian, monk, cleric, or bard may best compliment your character. I played as 
 a destructive and necromantic cleric, so I heavily relied on the rogue and monk to see me safely 
 through my quests. In addition to 1 henchman, you can also summon 1 creature. Early on, it's the 
 terrifying dire badger (eek!) ; later, it's a baalor (think of the balrog from Lord of the Rings) . 
 So, if your henchman is a summoner, it is possible to have 3 entities helping your character. Since 
 you can save your character at any time and retain all of his/her money, experience, and equipment, 
 there are great opportunities to start the game over again with boosted stats. Surprisingly, the 
 game adjusts the loot factor when you do this. Fore example: at level 3, you find a copper ring 
 and a basic sword; later, at level 18, you will find a gold ring and a sword +3. The difficulty 
 does not adjust automatically, but you can always increase the difficulty manually. Since I am 
 not much of a PC gamer, it took awhile for me to get used to a game that is mostly mouse-controlled. 
 After I did, however, I grew to like the combination of mouse and keyboard.
  
  Storywise, there is some divergence from mainstream RPGs. Your build-a-hero isn't out to save the 
 world, really, but rather to solve a localized problem. This made the game appealing, because I'm 
 getting tired of saving the entire world. Also, the story is more adult-oriented than most RPGs. 
 No, I am not referring to the upstairs adventures in the Neverwinter brothel. Rather, I am referring 
 to the plight of the plague, the manifestations of justice, and the moral implications of the hero's 
 actions. I never did venture into the online world of NWN. I fear it. I know how many a bleary-eyed 
 gamer has lost his or her soul to MMORPGs, so I didn't try it.
  
  Overall, a great RPG that most people should at least try. The plenitude of expansion packs, both 
 premium and community-based, offer an unlimited supply of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: piecar
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jan 29, 2007 2:17 pm PT
Review:  This game was very cheap. 20 dollars for the Diamond Edition, including 2 expansion packs and one 
 mod. It is also insanely fun, with a gazillion items and great possibilties in the amount of things 
 you can do. My two biggest complaints is the terrible voice acting. At first i thought it was great, 
 cause it was pretty funny, but it just got annoying after a bit. My largest complain is the instability. 
 It is horrendous, i cannot even remember the last time i had such an unstable game. But what makes 
 it so frustrating is that it IS good. Also, for a game that came out 5 years ago and an RPG at 
 that, it looks very good. Also, the Special setting on the Violence level is just insanely fun. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: waningwhisper
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 21, 2007 6:24 pm PT
Review:  If you like Dungeons and Dragons, this is the game for you. It actually follows the 3rd edition 
 rules for D&amp; D throughout the game, and is officially endorsed by Wizards of the Coast. True 
 to its D&amp; D nature, you can level up in different classes and specializations at will, instead 
 of being stuck in one classification throughout the entire game. This makes the game far more interesting 
 and flexible than many of its competitors. I could go on for a long time about the gameplay, but 
 this game literally embodies Dungeons and Dragons, so if you've played that, you'll know what to 
 expect. The graphics are surprisingly good, and I've had no problems running the game, even on 
 my Dell laptop (shocker, I know) . I would definitely recommend this game to anyone, especially 
 you lonely D&amp; D fanatics that are stranded without fellow players. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Voldy26
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jan 20, 2007 2:07 pm PT
Review:  Neverwinter Nights, along with Baldurs Gate II, is one of the best fantasy role playing games 
 out there. While its plot is not as intricate and engaging as that of the latter game, it makes 
 up for it with some pretty good visual effects and 3D graphics which look quite decent even now, 
 as well as more freedom when it comes to character creation. You are not restricted to any one 
 class, but are free to progress in any class of your choosing with each level you gain (although 
 progressing in more than two classes hardly makes sense) . Wizards are no longer doomed to wearing 
 only robes and fighting with nothing but staffs and daggers; with the respective feats selected, 
 they can wear armor and fight with all kinds of weapons, although wearing armor raises the probability 
 of spell failure. Another highly useful feature (one that was sorely missed in Baldurs Gate II) 
 is the ability to view the list of magical and natural defenses of any opponent so as to know how 
 best to tackle them. To assist you in this noble task, the game developers have provided some pretty 
 powerful magical items that can considerbaly boost your abilities.
  On the downside, you can only have one companion (+ familiar) over whom you have very limited control, 
 and who sometimes acts very stupidly. You cannot even equip them with weapons and armor of your 
 choosing, or use them as porters. You can give them various potions to drink, though. Another drawback 
 is that the game locations look pretty much alike, but I guess thats the price you pay for a 3D 
 environment. Oh, and the final battle is impossible to win (like it was in Baldurs Gate II) . But 
 apart from that, Neverwinter Nights is a great game and a must for any RPG fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeus_gb
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 17, 2007 7:37 am PT
Review:  I recently picked this up in a bargain bin and from the things i'd read about the game I thought 
 I was in for a real treat. However the reality was slightly different.
  
  After the first couple of missions I was hooked and was playing every chance I got. The game play 
 was really good and the puzzle weren't too hard.
  This changed when I got to the second level (Port Llast) . I found the level to be frustrating long 
 and I got really bored. I found myself wishing I could hurry up and finish the game. No gamer should 
 feel like that ever!
  
  This game is really quite good at the beginning but gets repetitive and boring. It just doesn't 
 live up to the hype in my opinion.
  
  This is a great game for hardcore RPG fans but it's not for gamers with less RPG experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShattyFattmas
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 15, 2007 2:12 pm PT
Review:  Being a DnD fan i was excited to play this game. While it does follow Dnd quite well, I just cant 
 help but to get very much into the game. The combat isnt very gratifying. It auto-attack on roids 
 basically. I could run into a group fo enimies and attack one, and go make a cup of coffee and 
 ill have attacked every single hostile one around me.
  
  While i dont mind the dated graphics (now dated, not upon release) id imagine alot of people would. 
 The effects of spells are very nice, which is about the only good thing during combat. For me it 
 took a while to really get the hang of the game, if you havnt played any other game like this it 
 may take you quite a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninjagaijin10k
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 24, 2006 7:22 pm PT
Review:  This is simply one of my favorite games. After being a Baldur's gate fan, this really hit the spot 
 for me. It's in the same universe, and has the same rules for the most part, but it's solo. I just 
 like the way it FEELS. I can't explain it. The glove just fits nicely when you're playing it.
 
  
  The plot of the main story isn't the greatest, but that doesn't matter because this game is about 
 gaming custom human driven stories with other people. When you're done playing this game, go out 
 and download some more add ons and such. There is really some GREAT stuff out there. You could 
 keep playing this game forever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: september_basic
Rating: 3.9
Date: Feb 15, 2007 6:32 pm PT
Review:  I was enthusiastic that this game was released, I was enthusiastic but Neverwinter Nights is nothing 
 of what it advertises. There is very little actual D&amp; D content to relish -- the game seems 
 to mock millions of D&amp; D fans worldwide. Yet it will be remembered as trash, and the designers 
 will be spat upon and reviled as presumptuous pigs who despise the public, despise the consumers, 
 and who seem to have only spared effort to render folly onto what could've been a magnificent project.
 
  
  It isn't as if their project was to build a tower to outspan the sky, but merely to stitch a simple 
 game to serve normally in a situation that seems well described as mundane commercial interactions.
 
  
  As one who is very much experienced with D&amp; D and computer games, I can accurately state that 
 I am worried that those who produced this game are lackawit or avaricious and lazy -- or worse 
 (and hopefully mistaken) , oppressed and under a lash.
  
  It would best serve later game history if someday a truthful statement be given as to how such 
 games were served in state of delapidated half-work. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bjornishigi
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 18, 2006 12:58 pm PT
Review:  Well, what is there to be said that hasn't already. Probably nothing. No comment on the single 
 player. It is unimportant. If you play this game you need to experience the online community. Its 
 huge and dedicated like nobodys business. This game has a very cool world editor in which you can 
 with relative ease create your own game. This feature alone secures the value of this series well 
 into the future. I personaly as a game playing freak discovered with this title that its more fun 
 to make your own games than it is to play them. If you learn to do a little scripting and write 
 your own dialogue trees you can pretty much articulate your wildest imaginings within this 3d universe. 
 If you really love games you owe it to yourself to look into these sophisticated and forward thinking 
 features. I am pursuing a career in game design in part due to my experience with this title. Hooray 
 for me. Seriously though, if you are at all interested in game design I dont know of another title 
 that can give you such a satisfying exposure to what this career might be like. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: btindall
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 14, 2006 1:50 pm PT
Review:  Well, this game has a great story, along with enjoyable gameplay and interesting options. Character 
 creation is interesting and thoughtful. Combat is also interesting, as you seem to have the right 
 balance between a number of more routine battles as you travel about and the occasional more challenging 
 battle which requires some extra strategizing. Thankfully, you can pause the game and think about 
 it. At no point do the battles become tedious.
  
  Graphics are good. Though not exceptional, I'm not looking for anything more in an RPG. Gameplay 
 is what matters, with graphics good enough to enhance it. You only get one companion character, 
 over which you have limited control, which can be good or bad. I would have thought that keeping 
 the party small would detract from keeping things interesting, but it doesn't seem to. You have 
 plenty of interactions with NPC characters throughout the game to keep things going.
  
  It's the story that really sets this game apart from the rest, however. Other RPG's could certainly 
 learn from this above all. While the world of D&amp; D can be rather silly at times, this game keeps 
 things moving, and I can overlook the silliness of the world-view. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmonegro
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 14, 2006 10:23 am PT
Review:  Neverwinter Nights is THE PC rpg to get. Not only the story is great and long (it lasted me arround 
 68 hours) but there is a great fan comunity making some campaigns, feature that you can also do 
 by yourself, and it's relatively easy. Oh, and when you're playing as a DM (Dungeon Master) you 
 kinda feel like God, you can control everything that happens in your campaign, and when you put 
 yourself into it, and make a great campaign, you can really get some satisfying results.
  
  I know it's late for a review, but when playing Neverwinter Nights, you just won't regret it even 
 if it isn't a brand new game. All I want is that the community that supported Neverwinter Nights 
 over the last few years don't abandon the original Neverwinter Nights fans for the second part 
 of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: teodriel
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 14, 2006 5:58 am PT
Review:  Neverwinter Knights make some of the best use of the D&amp; D licence, but has many flaws that hardcore 
 role playing gamers like me would notice...
  
  The Good: Tons of character types to play around, Great music score and sound overall. Excellent 
 use of the D&amp; D licence. the Dragons are GREAT. The PAUSE setting, present in the baldur's gate 
 saga is here, and is some of the stuff that a apreciate the most...
  
  The Bad: ... But, unlike in baldur's Gate, the sense of strategy, leading 4 or more characters at 
 the same time is not here. You can only carry one guy, with some other companions controlled by 
 th AI. Clunky gameplay, long but tedious plot, some boring fights against human crap. AI of your 
 companions are sort of ANTI-D&amp; D game.
  
  To the attributes...
  
  Gameplay: In my opinion the low point of the game, very Clunky and non intuitive, not much fun 
 in the combat, non either in the dialogue and puzzle solving.
  
  Graphics: Great for the time release.
  
  Sound: Great, the music score the special effects, 
 and the screams shout by enemies when dies. It Really improve the experience.
  
  Value: You'l be playing a lot of hours this game, in the campaigning and online. There's a ton 
 of characters to play, and game combinations.
  
  Tilt: Erggg, the plot is kind of weak, and in general the game is'nt that great. At first sight 
 I was amazed by the D&amp; D licence, but in the end it gets old by the non intuitive gameplay and 
 boring combat system.
  
  In the end a good game, but just good, nothing to scream about. I played this game years ago, and 
 is hard to recommend in the present time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: toroman
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 13, 2006 4:03 am PT
Review:  RPG that has everything and seems to never end. With all the ex packs and modules you simply can 
 play it for a lifetime and it is not getting boring. It has good sound, graffic is amazing consedering 
 time of relise and fantastic gameplay. And more you play more you want to. By now I must have at 
 least 15 modules and trying to get more. I love this game. Story of origanal game is great and pushes 
 you forward and getting you more hoked every minute. More you play, more you need to play and more 
 addicted you get. If you do not have enough free time, do not conseder to get started with this becouse 
 it will take over your life, at least that happened with me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: njdss4
Rating: 5.3
Date: Dec 12, 2006 3:00 pm PT
Review:  I really tried to make Neverwinter Nights work, it's just that there is sooooo much talking and 
 sooooo much story to go over every 5 minutes it bored me to death. This is coming from someone 
 who has played just about every Final Fantasy ever made, played WoW, FFXI, MxO, and PSO so I'm 
 not just some newcomer to the genre. They needed to make the combat system a little more engaging, 
 and not just sitting back and watching your character miss, and miss, and miss, then hit, then 
 miss. No wonder it's required that you pick up a mercenary, it's the only way you can kill anything. 
 The graphics for NWN were really good for it's time, but it didn't make up for the fact that you 
 spent most of your time clicking the screen over and over and over again while roaming areas looking 
 for MORE people to TALK to. Way too much Role-Playing, not enough Game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dsguy464646
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 8, 2006 9:01 am PT
Review:  Neverwinter Nights is the most amazing game for the PC I've played in... ever. Everything about 
 the gameplay was just perfect. Not a single line was out of place. D&amp; D is fun, but NWN is perfect. 
 The music is amazing, the battles feel real and true. The best point is not the campaigns, (yet 
 they are amazing) but the ability to make any world you want. You can create any item, any creature, 
 even any planet. This is the best way to use creativity to the fullest. The only slight problem 
 is that scripting takes a while to learn, and it's tough to do. But, even so, this game is worthy 
 to be considered one of the best games in history. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: solid_snake_243
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 25, 2006 3:52 pm PT
Review:  Really this game has it all. The sound, the role playing, the story, and it even has where you 
 can play up to 64 players online, which is pretty intense, playing with 64 people that you have 
 no idea what they are capable of or what they plan on doing. So no matter what your doing and where 
 your at, i guarntee you'll never get the same thing to happen twice.
  
  The graphics are good for their time, but now that the second game is out, the graphics fall sort 
 from anything, but needlessto say their not that bad for when this game came out. The faces and 
 costumes and what not else allows you to custom create your character to where its hard to find 
 another one out there like it. The game even comes with a custom tool map set that allows you to 
 create your own story characters, and what not else, this game is one of the best role-playing 
 games on pc next to nwn 2, short story short, buy this game if your a rpger, really now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _R3SP3CT_
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 2, 2006 7:28 pm PT
Review:  Neverwinter Nights (PC)
  
  Neverwinter Nights is a D&amp; D based RPG game by Bioware. It uses the 3.0E rules of the popular 
 tabletop game called Dungeons and Dragons. This game really has it all. A very good single-player 
 campaing, great online play, the toolkit so you can create your own modules, characters, etc. Lets 
 start the review.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Neverwinter nights in its true form is a point and click RPG, similar to Diablo and Diablo 2 but 
 much more complex. At the beginning of the game you get to create a character, you can choose from 
 Race, Class, Stats, etc. Then you are launched into the game. You have full control of the camera 
 meaning you can rotate it, zoom in, zoom out, etc. In your journeys thorought the Forgotten Realms 
 you will face many powerfull foes, some which are challenging some just too easy. Overall the gameplay 
 is similar to Icewind Dale 2 and Baldurs Gate (PC) but in 3D. The game features the Aurora toolkit 
 (The Toolkit the designers of the game used to create the game) , meaning you will be able to create 
 your own adventures, play them, get others to play them online. The online of the game is great 
 as well, the community even now is pretty large and you can always find a game to play (and almost 
 every server has a different adventure) , and the servers are great, if you have a broadband connection 
 you will experience little to literally no lag at all. The gameplay is great but not perfect. The 
 game has some issues with the gameplay, such as after the first 10 or so hours, the point and click 
 system will start to get a bit annoying, if you play a wizard character you will have to rest often, 
 too often. Other then that the gameplay is great.
  
  Graphics:
  
  By todays standards (2006) the graphics are pretty bad, but at the time they were great. The games 
 graphics are nice, and with the CEP (Community Expansion Pack) you will get lots of diverisity 
 in the items, and equipment. The games magic effects are nicely done and almost every computer 
 by now should be able to run this game on Medium to High settings. While the graphics are nice 
 they are not breath-taking. Overall the graphics are great.
  
  Sound:
  
  The games sound is pretty average. The background music is nice, and there is some voice-acting, 
 but only a little of it. The character chants are pretty organic as well. Overall the sounds are 
 pretty organic.
  
  Value:
  
  This games campaign is around 40 hours give or take 5 based on your expertise. After that you have 
 unlimited adventures over the GameSpy online network. If that's not enough you can create your 
 own modules. Still not enough? Well the game has two expansion packs, adding another 20-30 hours, 
 and Premium modules which can be downloaded from the Bioware website for a small fee. The game 
 is definatley worth the money. If you don't already have this game, you should get it, you will 
 not be dissapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pdgross
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 1, 2006 10:15 am PT
Review:  Here's a game I found a lot of fun! My favorite part of the game was actually the game design/mechanics: 
 I loved how Bioware adhered to the D&amp; D v3 rules! Aside from subtle changes (like changing a 
 spell's school here &amp; there) , I felt like Bioware did an excellent job of bringing a genuine 
 D&amp; D RPG to the PC.
  
  I enjoyed the overall Neverwinter Nights (NWN) mission --- there was enough suspense &amp; mystery 
 to keep me playing months after we first generated a meager level 1 character. I did feel a drive 
 to keep improving our character. The quests themselves were well integrated into the overall plot 
 &amp; just right in length.
  
  Probably since I'm an adventure/mystery gamer at heart, this game did have a few stark drawbacks 
 for me. The graphics &amp; sound were fair at best. In general I found the puzzle aspect of the 
 quests either lacking or too easy. Also, I found the dungeon realms monotonous after awhile, and 
 the battles sometimes too repetitive (even using the hard-core rules) .
  
  For anyone looking to get into D&amp; D, I'd recommend this game as a sampler and sure fire way 
 to learn the system. For anyone just looking for a fun RPG, I'd recommend this game without hesitation. 
 For anyone looking for an adventure game w/ role-playing elements, I'd turn them elsewhere (haven't 
 figured out where that elsewhere is yet... hmm...) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZiRa-Bosnia
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 27, 2006 11:38 am PT
Review:  First of all , i would like to say that im one of the greatest AD&amp; D fans , so i decided to 
 review 1. Lets start:
  
  First what i saw when i installed game i watched INTRO , for me its
  very important . GAME Story 
 is very important and i was impressed.
  Nice Speach , Animation and such. I told to myself THIS IS IT.
  
  Main menu is not so fancy 
 quite normal IMHO, I started making my
  character for Singleplayer Quest :) . I wont talk about skills , I wont talk
  about how i wasted 
 20 minutes on making my char... Lets go to game now.
  
  In Campaign Chapter 1 of this game , i found myself in city of Neverwinter
  jewell of the Frozen 
 North ... . City lies in ruins becouse of Wailing Death 
  people are sick and population is getting smaller =/. We must act fast or..
  guess what. I joined 
 Neverwinter Academy under command of Miss Lady
  Aribeth she need some handsome Adventurers to save the city. After you
  complete training in 
 Academy you are being able to leave Academy and
  start fighting for city freedom. City is Divided in several districts , every
  district Boss 
 have 1 reagent for Wailing Death Cure . IMHO quite Linear
  and transparent part of game. In here i described story of chapter 1 but
  i must say other chapters 
 are on the same Trick.
  
  Another thing what i dont like in this game is not enough conversations with NPC-s , anyone remember 
 BALDURS GATE II? King of all rpg-s.
  
  I dont have many positive things to say about Singleplayer Campaings
  of Neverwinter Nights , 
 if this would be all from NWN i would give this game 6.5 MAX But lets take a look to MULTIPLAYER 
 part of the game.
  
  Multiplayer in this game is for me 80% of what you want from this game.
  Allmighty Editor can 
 make apsolutly anything you want , Plenty of mods and
  thousands of people online !!! Any D&amp; D fan cant resist this. Game can be
  transformed allmost 
 in every aspect. New Weapons , Dungeons , Custom
  NPC. I found better MODS for Neverwinter Nights than SIngleplayer Campaign. This part of game is 
 9.5 from me , its really fun , PVP , PVM everything is great. If you dont plan to play this game 
 online - well dont buy it cause its boring and once more BORING . Worst singleplayer ever , One 
 of the Best multiplayer games ever. GG. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmanw
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 22, 2006 4:14 pm PT
Review:  Neverwinter Nights accomplishes its task. Create a custom character (stats, appearance, voice) 
 and play through an epic story. The game does a good job replicating the paper-pen game, Dungeons 
 &amp; Dragons. Armor and weapons are customizable, and you can even craft your own. The game also 
 contains hundreds of spells. The graphics are showing their age but the controls and game play 
 are still topnotch. Player mods are downloadable for free and add new missions. The game's style 
 is very similar to Icewind Dale, Baldur's Gate, and Star Wars: Nights of the Old Republic. Many 
 of the puzzles are trial and error and can get quite frustrating. The game is not very addictive 
 (may be a good or bad thing) but it still draws me back to play every once in a while to play with 
 one of the many classes or races I still have not tried. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FoodThing00
Rating: 4.1
Date: Oct 18, 2006 10:35 am PT
Review:  Despite all the moronic fanboy punks that swarm around this game, i'll make another effort to prevent 
 anyone else from wasting money on this soulless piece of orc waste.
  Anyways. Read before you disagree, i know, i know, all the fanboys here propably won't, but still.
 
  Neverwinter nights. Propably the worst adaption to date of D&amp; D, and something that should 
 be locked into a vault and forgotten.
  Multiplayer is NOT what these games should be about.
  
  Story: So. This certainly proves Biowares 
 inability to write a decent storyline, or make any character in it interesting.
  After creating a character you start out in a academy, after a unlogical first talk, you go about 
 in the tutorials, learning everything from magic to bartering. Anyway, soon after finishing the 
 brief time of tutorials, the academy is attacked, you see, There is a deadly plauge running wild 
 in the city, and killing people by hundreds and tousands.
  Anyways, where were i? oh.
  The academy is attacked, by a unknown enemy, and they manage to steal creatures important to creating 
 a cure to this plauge, you ofcourse, are charged with retrieving them, and then the story sets 
 of, sadly, with nothing of Blask isle's wit or twists, just a plain boring storyline with no variation 
 whatsoever. I mean seriously, there is NO humour whatsoever in the game, and not even once i so 
 much as smiled at the pathetic jokes in the game. all quests are plain and boring, little variation 
 and well.. nothing else.
  The characters in the game are a huge letdown, and this certainly proves that Bioware is inept 
 at making a epic singleplayer experience.
  3/10
  
  Gameplay: Plain, to be plain. *No pun intended*
  As i said earlier, there is little variation 
 in quests, either kill that or escort that. oh, i forgot the incredibly basic ''fetch'' quests.
 
  Otherwise, the gameplay itself is pretty much as we know it, it's just dumbed down, and so incredibly 
 easy, even on harder levels, so youknow, it's a must-have if you want to cruise past a lifeless 
 and uninspired game.
  Spells can be accessed trough a hotkey system, but as anything else in this game, it's almost pointless 
 and just a boring last minute addition. sigh.
  *takes a pause to rest my NWN hating  Okay, back. 
 sadly, to further dumb down the game, they removed the party part of the game, now, you can have 
 a unevolved henchman, diablo style, with little to say, and even less personality. tch.
  Anyway, other than that there is little to be said, this is just one of them games with plain and 
 boring gameplay, the combat itself is pretty much basic, and you think they could have added some 
 complexity.
  6/10
  
  Graphics:.. If you're still reading this, chances are you're not a fanboy punk, but i can't say 
 my hopes are up. Anyway.
  Pretty much same as with gameplay, when this game came out, it was okay, but now.. sheesh. Undetailed 
 and plain enviroments and bad character detail, even the infinite engine had better detail than 
 this... sigh.
  Spelleffects look worse i must say, they don't have that sparkle that they used to have and frankly, 
 they are boring to watch. Other than that.. well.. the loading screens are pretty atleast. heh. Atleast 
 combat LOOKS a little nice with sparks and stuff, but since it's so boring and easy there is little 
 to redeem it.
  6/10
  
  Sound: This was a huge suprise for me, it's incredibly BAD! I mean, Both thebaldurs gate and icewind 
 dale series had amazing voiceacting and music, but this.. this is a affront to sounds, the voiceacting 
 is absolutely horrible, and the music is well.. forgettable at best, and it is one of the most underwhelming 
 scores of all time.
  You're seriously better of by muting the music and playing something else in the background. Better 
 yet, don't play this at all.
  5/10
  
  Multiplayer: This is primarily this games claim to fame, sadly, it's plauged by pathetic powerplayers 
 and illiterates and really only should be used as a meetingplace. Regardless of how good the multiplayer 
 experience is, the horrible storyline and gameplay still looms, and drags down everything.
  Not only that, but it's prone to lag and lost connections.
  And the modules? PFAH! i mean, Baldurs 
 gate is SO much more moddable
  and premium moduls and all that? there is little noteworthy and premium about them, they just extend 
 the already horrible experience of the game, and the amatuer ones aren't much better.
  6/10
  
  Value: Despite the aligment system and different ways to solve basic quests there is 
 little to be had, the ending is one of the most underwhelming of all time, and just not worth plowing 
 trough the game for.
  Sigh, Bioware should just vanish from the gaming scene and never come back.
  2/10
  
  So. here 
 it is, disagree if you want, but you know i'm right, regardless how young and fanboy you might 
 be. Get baldurs gate instead, it's full of life, humor and much more, heck, i'd even consider it 
 art. But if you like powerplaying and boring gameplay, story and everything else about this horrible 
 soulless crap, by all means, waste your money. See if i care. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wolfhund
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 17, 2006 7:42 pm PT
Review:  Play this game because it can't be ending. You can always add some expansions. And you will play 
 them all. I started to play this game six months ago and I play at game since. I think it's the 
 first time I spent my time like this. You can control a few kinds of characters, and no one have 
 the same attributes. You start the game with a rogue and you will continue with a wizard in a other 
 expansion. This will never ending. But I have a negate, I think the game can focus on a more specific 
 story, with a better scenario like star wars old republics . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: net_mugger
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 10, 2006 5:22 am PT
Review:  The mark of NW is the storyline although I don't think it will follow much in NW2 as in many RPG...
 
  
  The gameplay of NW is very good; I mean for that time you can do whatsoever you want. This game 
 really impresed me, but still it is not perfect. About graphics... jee that is good for 2002. What 
 can I say graphics is worth a 10 in 2002 but as you can see my review is dated in oct 2006. It 
 has a superb musical line and diversed soundtraks and the effects when fighting are so cool. This 
 game worths' the price! But play NW2 and if you really like the game you can try NW2.
  
  And 1more thing. The name is so eyecatching, I really like how Never Winter Nights sound!: D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_Grave
Rating: 7.8
Date: Sep 8, 2006 6:29 am PT
Review:  Not a bad game, but slightly overrated in my opinion. Neverwinter Nights draws its strengths from 
 the fact that it attempts to cover every field of gameplay (action, story, online multiplayer gaming, 
 easy modding, etc) as well as from immensely popular D&D roleplaying system and its most popular 
 setting, Forgotten Realms. In this review, I'll compare NWN (short for Neverwinter Nights) with 
 its contemporary, Morrowind, and games made using Bioware's Infinity Engine (shortly IE games, 
 which refers to Baldur's Gate series, Icewind Dale series and Planescape: Torment) .
  
  Action part of the game is probably the strongest part of the game. Point&Click style of Diablo 
 is combined with tactical pause of Baldur's Gate and enhanced with great animated combat moves. 
 Neverwinter Nights was the first 3D game I played that had animated parries, dodges and projectiles 
 (arrows and bolts) that stayed in their targets after they struck. The only complaint is about 
 tactical options in combat. Pause key is not of much use if you don't have sufficient control over 
 your henchmen, companions and summoned creatures. The companions will fight on their own according 
 to the advice you give them, like in Fallout and Arcanum, for example, but there are painfully 
 few parameters to set for them. For example, henchmen who are told to use their ranged weapons 
 will not switch to melee weapons even if they are surrounded by opponents. Another great problem 
 is that there is no way to tell your melee-fighting companions not to charge the enemies except 
 by constant right-clicking to open their context menus, which can really bog down the action gameplay. 
 If you want to get through battles quickly, it is best to take Barbarian or Monk as a henchman.
 
  
  The story of single player campaign is sadly disappointing. Cliche after cliche combined into a 
 long, epic campaign of several chapters which all look alike. In each chapter, you will have a 
 generic core area, with several generic shops and several generic NPCs who will give you generic 
 quests. Generic is the keyword here. The core area is surrounded with 3 or 4 mission areas. You 
 will have to visit each of these mission areas to finish the main quest of the chapter, but other 
 more important quests will also be scattered all over these 4 areas. Voice acting is catastrophic, 
 especially considering that Bioware was involved in development of true gems like Baldur's Gate 
 2 and Icewind Dale. The only exceptions are roles of Aarin Gend and Lord Never. If there was a 
 mark for story, I'd give NWN 1.
  
  Technically, the game is quite good. It spent a long time under development, just like its contender 
 in single player area, Morrowind, but Bioware were soundly beaten by Bethesda. Neverwinter Night 
 has great graphics for the year in which it was released, but won't get much opportunity to enjoy 
 it. The only way to clearly see the detailed 3D object is to zoom in all the way, and to have a 
 clear view of the area around your character you have to zoom out all the way. After a couple of 
 hours of zooming in and out you will get bored with it and just zoom out and keep hacking and slashing. 
 Code optimization also isn't the strongest quality of Neverwinter Nights. Whole areas are loaded 
 at the time which means that scripts that execute all the time keep doing so even if they have 
 nothing to do with your character at the moment. This can really slow down the gameplay on contemporary 
 systems in busy areas like Neverwinter City Core and it doesn't shorten the loading times significantly. 
 Still, computers have advanced enough for us to play this game comfortably these days.
  
  Computerization of 3rd edition of D&D is quite good. All standard classes, races and feats are 
 either 100% true to the pen&paper version of the game or logically converted to be equally useful 
 in a computer game. Selection of skills and implementation of their use in the game are also great. 
 This outstanding impression is marred only by scant selection of items in the game. RPG veterans 
 will be stunned by how few types of potions and unique items can be found in the game. Those who 
 explore the modding options will be even more shocked as implementation of some fairly common D&D 
 potions and items that are absent from NWN is fairly simple.
  
  All in all, NWN is a valuable game I'd recommend to all fans of roleplaying games, but it has shown 
 that attempts to win both single and multiplayer market with one product will never win on either 
 side. If you like the game engine but would like better story, more items and better henchmen control, 
 I definitely suggest the expansions Shadows of Undrentide and Hordes of Underdark. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Makaveli111
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 2, 2006 9:28 am PT
Review:  I thought this would be a nice game just like Diablo II but i was wrong to compare the both. This 
 game has good points about it. I have played these types of games before and this only game of 
 this genre to have completely confused the hell out of me. Storyline is confusing and after playing 
 for hour i got stuck on where to go and how to get out. I was just plain confused on this game 
 first time playing game and got confused. This is more like required taste and more like u have 
 to be really into it and has to be your style in order for u to enjoy. I am not saying this game 
 bad cause it isnt. I probaly buy the sequel and try again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShotGunBunny
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 2, 2006 7:12 am PT
Review:  Back in the day when Baldur's Gate, Icewind Dale and Fallout were breathing new life into the CRPG 
 market I was still busy with my daily after school LAN's. We had lots of fun playing all sorts 
 of games, Diablo 1 and later 2 and lots of others. But looking in some of the gaming magazines 
 I read reviews about Baldur's Gate and it's cousins. Reading how good they were, I wanted to try 
 them too. However by that time I couldn't find them anywhere in the normal stores.
  
  Then I read a preview about NWN, the spiritual succesor to BG2 and also the tool with which players 
 could forge their own worlds.
  I had always liked building my own levels, I always wanted to build something larger then a short 
 mission (I'm sure we all had such ambitions once) . Stuff like RPGMaker didn't satisfy. So I got 
 NWN shortly after it came out.
  
  I played the campaign for a few days before simply becoming too bored to continue, only finishing 
 a quarter of the game or so.
  The toolset also turned out to be a lot harded then they made it out to be (at the time, at least) 
 scripting knowledge was required to do most major tasks beyond building. I tried learning the scripting 
 language but I simply didn't take the time for it. I left it to collect dust (which it did quite 
 well, I might add) .
  I kept repeating how bad the game was, but that didn't stop me from eventually buying Baldur's 
 Gate 1, 2, Fallout 2, etc. And my inspiration was renewed.
  
  2 years or so later, I was on another one of those "I want to create an epic adventure!" trips. 
 I tried RPGMaker again, once again I found it to be too limiting for my tastes. Then I remembered 
 NWN, and this time I was willing to take some time to learn how to build correctly.
  Going online, I discovered what this game really was about, apart from the hundreds of quality 
 singeplayer modules that were created by users there were also these Persistant Worlds, MMORPG's 
 of sorts.
  
  Now, I both started building my first mod, and loved it. And I also began playing online on Roleplaying 
 PW's, and loved it.
  It's been like that for almost 4 years now, and I still love to translate that inside my head into 
 something real, and it's just so plain rewarding when it turns out nice.
  
  Almost everyone I know thinks NWN is bad, just like I did at first. People just need to realize 
 that NWN isn't like other games, it isn't even about the game itself, it's about making something 
 great yourself and sharing it with others.
  If you're looking for more then just a short singleplayer experience, you've got one of the greatest 
 games of all time here.
  
  If not, there's tons of other games out there which are plain fun by themselves, Diablo and Baldur's 
 Gate, just to name a few. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mephistopheles9
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 17, 2006 7:41 am PT
Review:  This game was fun for a number of reasons. first off, the fighting and the combat jsut looks so 
 cool! and dont even get me started on the flashy magic system, which radiates pure awesome. another 
 reason is the voice acting. it feels like each voice actor was born to play his/her role. very 
 cool. the graphics are very nice (at least to me, who considers the average rpg to have graphics 
 like bg2) and they compliment the storyline. there are just so many things you can do in this game! 
 go to taverns, make friends, have drinking contests, go to the armory, steal from a shop, and many 
 other things. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nobeaner
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 13, 2006 10:00 am PT
Review:  I think it was the expectations setup by games like Baldurs gate and Icewind Dale that kind of 
 left me wanting a little more from this game. The 3d aspect was different and very well done, the 
 voice acting was superb and the story behind the game was good too. Technically the game was very 
 sound and responsive.
  
  I did miss the fact that there was no real party feature in the single player (only one NPC at 
 a time) which was something I had grown accustomed to when playing a DnD RPG and the characterizations 
 were very flamboyant with poofy legs and arms for the clothes which kind of gave a feel of a renaissance 
 era. 
  
  The ability to build your own campaign was a great feature to have and for a long time it was a 
 selling point. I don't really know if it was as successful as it was supposed to be since I barely 
 got into it, but from what I was able to see it seemed very simple to use.
  
  In the end, it was Neverwinter Nights innovations and breaks from the typical DnD format that kind 
 of gave me a mix feeling. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: comradsunite
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 10, 2006 2:34 am PT
Review:  ... and you'd probably enjoy it too. its good stuff... no doubt. Nice graphics relatively good story, 
 relatively good everything really, but its lacking something. It doesn't really have a soul to 
 it. The simple fact is that when this game came out it was supposed to cary on the Baldur's gate 
 legacy. It didn't really do that. It created a legacy of its own... and unfortunately that legacy 
 is not quite up to what Bioware accomplished with Baldurs Gate. The simple fact is you could play 
 this game... if you've never played Baldur's gate. If you have played Baldurs Gate.... well you 
 could play this game, but you'd probably get more satisfaction out playing through the Baldurs 
 Gate series again once or twice... or like six times, man thats a good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spectre-123
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 27, 2007 10:59 pm PT
Review:  I usually play shooter games with lots of action. When my friend told me to play NWN I refused... 
 which was a mistake. A mix between Diablo and Star Wars: KotOR, this top-down RPG is great, set 
 in the universe of Dungeons and Dragons. Immersive storyline, great battle system (but poor voice 
 acting) this game is definetely worth a try. ITs hard to get used to a the start, but then it gets 
 very fun. You can even play co-op storyline fpr up to 6 friends, which is what I love doing. The 
 most frustrating thisg about that is that your partner will take all the gold and weapons from 
 the chests... : ( Great singleplayer (long chapters and theres 4 of them) and great multiplayer, 
 and apparently custom worlds to join/make (havent tried it though) , this is a definete must-play 
 game, whether you're like me, who play shooters more, or a real RPG player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: umbrae
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 21, 2006 11:27 am PT
Review:  Its an old game I have had since release, so I felt obligated to provide a review on it with the 
 sequel forthcoming. This is the only game I have played for 4 years straight. The single player 
 is interesting, but with multiplayer and custom content: ever time you pick this up it is a completely 
 different game. Why pay a monthly fee when you can play for free on hundreds of user created virtual 
 worlds. Get bored? Switch to another and have a completely different ruleset, map, world, people. 
 Truely a neverending treasure chest filled with D&D goodness.
  
  The closest thing you will ever get to table-top D&D. Since 2002, I have not had a machine without 
 this game installed, and it is the first thing installed after my drivers are up to date. NWN is 
 working before my email is. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: megafeck
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 15, 2006 7:13 pm PT
Review:  Neverwinter Nights is a Dungeons & Dragons roleplaying game by Bioware, creaters of the popular 
 Baldur's Gate Series, where you take on the role of a character who you create. You can have multiplayer 
 characters and the character creation system allows you to customize your characters. When you 
 create a character you can choose such things as race, gender, class, and skills. Neverwinter Nights 
 also includes a bunch of pre-made characters and packages, which are a set of already defined attributes 
 that you can use when creating a character. 
  
  Multiplayer in Neverwinter Nights works similar to the Pen and Paper Dungeons & Dragons games that 
 many people play. You can join a game in two modes, either as a player (through the game itself) 
 or as a dungeon master (through a seperate program) . 
  
  Players attempt to complete the objectives of a dungeon (area) if the game is objective based, 
 or go around doing various quests. Dungeon Masters control the game, and can create new monsters, 
 traps and triggers. Dungeon Masters can also take control of any computer controlled character 
 and adjust the difficulty of the game on the fly. 
  
  Multiplayer is diverse thanks to the Aurora Toolset that is included with the game. The Aurora 
 toolset allows people to create their own dungeons, complete with scripting (Done in a C++ Like 
 Language) . This allows for very complex dungeons and it's even possible to create different types 
 of games using the scripting. 
  
  While Neverwinter Nights primarily focuses on multiplayer, it also includes a single player campaign 
 consisting of 4 chapters and a tutorial chapter. While single player does offer some fun, it isn't 
 very long. Therefore if you don't intend to play multiplayer, I would recommend Baldur's Gate I 
 or II instead since they focus more on single player. 
  
  Graphics are done in 3D and take advantage of the latest 3D hardware. If you have a NVidia GEForce 
 3 or 4, you will be able to take advantage of the "shiny water" feature which makes the water reflective. 
 For some reason however, this feature does not work with the ATI Radeon 8500 cards even though 
 they support it. 
  
  Sounds are somewhat repetitive as well as the music. When a spell is cast, a lot of the words are 
 the same as other spells. Music is generally the same for each area type with minor variations. 
 
  
  Neverwinter Nights has done a good job of taking the turn-based Dungeons & Dragons and making it 
 real-time. A day consists of a certain amount of seconds (settable by the person running the server) 
 as well as turns. 
  
  Overall, Neverwinter Nights is a great game and I would recommend it to people who like to play 
 Role-Playing games and fans of Dungeons & Dragons. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shrog-III
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 6, 2007 5:01 am PT
Review:  Neverwinter Nights was the first game based in the Forgotten Realms that didn't use the infinity 
 engine to come out since the original Baldur's Gate in 1998. However nice looking it is though, 
 it doesn't make up for the absolutely rubbish story and repetitive and unchallenging gameplay.
 
  
  Neverwinter Nights, as may be guessed by those who are familiar with the Forgotten Realms setting, 
 is set in Neverwinter. The city is suffering from a great plague and it's your job, as a new academy 
 apprentice, to find the components and save it from disaster. And although the story does develop 
 and eventually get better, there is no epic feeling at any section of the game which is made worse 
 by the fact that you can hack your way through just about any monster in the game.
  
  Unlike Baldur's Gate and its sequels, no thought has to be put into the gameplay. It's more of 
 an action game as opposed to a role-playing one. Playing as a spellcaster makes is much more interesting 
 however, because spells have different effects on different enemies and there is more challenge 
 in that you have less health.
  
  Characters interaction is altogether pretty poor as well. The oppurtunities to blatantly insult 
 someone and other such comments are few and far between now and barely any of these have consequences 
 any more either. By far the worst however is the lacking of any party whatsoever. You can employ 
 a mercenary but you can't actually tell him to do anything. You now have the equivalent of 1 1/4 
 characters. This henchman can't even die because if he does you just find him back at the current 
 base when you teleport back!
  
  The sound in Neverwinter Nights lacks the intensity of the Baldur's Gate games too. It's all fairly 
 generic much like the graphics. The new 3D engine is nice too but characters look fairly blurry 
 and uninteresting and, especially urban environments, look pretty boring.
  
  So, why do I rate this an 8 with all the negative comments I have given it? Simply because, much 
 like other reviewers have said, once you get over the fact that it is not Baldur's Gate, it seems 
 to get better, and you start to realise it's not so bad at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pyroguy305
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 12, 2006 5:27 pm PT
Review:  I will make this review straight and to the point while still clarifying my statements. Neverwinter 
 Nights is a wonderful rpg that i have had many a fun hour playing..
  The story in NWN is impeccable just like all biowares games and it involves the main character, 
 you, trying to find several ingredients that will help you cure a plague that is tearing apart 
 the city. After this first part of the story you start unraveling mysteries surround a cult that 
 alledgedly started the plague. The story is definitly interesting and will keep you playing the 
 game until you are finished and leave you wanting more. 
  The graphics are very good for their time and the type of game. The sound is amazing however with 
 much ambience and great sound affects. 
  The multiplayer aspect of the game is definitly worth mentioning as well. There are literally hundreds 
 if not thousands of modules that can be played which can contain anything from simple pvp arenas 
 or even huge worlds modeled after Lord of the Rings' Middle Earth for you to explore or socialize 
 with people in. 
  The game comes with the Aurora toolset and you can make your own worlds and even put them online 
 for others to play. THis is a great game that is definitly worth playing.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tarzyz
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 12, 2006 6:53 am PT
Review:  Unlike previous BioWare RPGs, you're only fully in control of one player. However, your character 
 can be joined by a henchman and a summoned monster or familiar, bringing your party's total to 
 three. You only have partial control over these accompanying characters, while AI controls the 
 rest of their actions. For the most part, they play fine: a thief will know when to disarm a trap 
 and a cleric will know when to heal you, etc. There are some moments when the AI gets a little 
 wacky, like when your bard sidekick is still shooting arrows at an orc 15 feet away while the goblin 
 15 inches away claws on her. There are also instances when the pathfinding is off. This was more 
 understandable in Baldur's Gate when you were controlling a party of six; having a single character 
 not being able to follow you because of poor pathfinding is pretty annoying. 
  
  The single-player story can be played cooperatively through GameSpy Arcade, the Internet or LAN. 
 Up to six players can participate in the action. I spent a few hours playing co-op games and found 
 it a bit confusing. Players do not have the same journal updates unless they were all present for 
 the same event at the same time. So if you join a game late, you won't be able to tell what portions 
 of the main quest and side quests have been completed until another player types you the info. 
 The best route for co-op play -- in the story mode -- is coordinating with some friends to start 
 at the same time.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Last_Ride
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 11, 2006 8:50 am PT
Review:  The regular story mode is good. But the best is on internett. Nothing beats playing it with guys 
 on internett. The races and the combinations are good and cool. The 2nd Neverwinters game is probably 
 gonig to be more awesome, then this one. There are a lot of good maps on the net. The abiltiys 
 are also a good addition to this game. There are good combination of weapons and armors. But what 
 im most excited over is the next game in the line for this game. Im defenatly gonig to buy that. 
 Since this game really compell to me. The two other additions are also good. So if you want this 
 game, the other additions are good choices. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Revan7382
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 9, 2006 8:04 pm PT
Review:  With a gripping storyline, intense multiplayer and a completely customizable toolset, Neverwinter 
 Nights has something to offer for all tastes in the RPG category.
  
  This game offers a whole lot for gamers looking for a great single player or online game. The campaign 
 consists of 4 chapters, each with its own set of unique quests and fierce enemies. Not to mention 
 you can take the campaign online and complete the entire game with any number of friends.
  
  The toolset is very unique compared to other game toolsets. Players can actually create persistent 
 worlds with its own seperate storyline. Players will make their character from a variety of races, 
 classes and weapon proficiencies. They will then adventure through someone else's created world 
 and pursue the ultimate MMO goal, reach max level. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marijuana_man2
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 6, 2007 10:35 am PT
Review:  It's a great game that has unlimited possibilities, you can play the single player and go through 
 the story... or you can go online and go into P vs. P area... or you can make your own adventure 
 and put it up in bioware. com for other players to download and play.... like i said the possibilities 
 are endless...
  
  However, the singleplayer is good, the story is sub-par, first your trying to find a cure for the 
 plague... then you're looking for a cult, and you're fighting giant lizards, that's pretty much 
 it... though it flows together... it feels like there's a few pieces missing...
  
  Of course unlike the other games like KOTOR or Jade Empire, you can't control you're henchmen... so 
 they're pretty much in your way when you're trying to open a chest... disarming a trap... or blocking 
 your escape route...
  
  Multiplayer is also great... similar to MMO's this game will take your life for at least five months 
 or more... eventually you'll get bored of leveling up and start considering to eat something nutritious...
 
  
  NWN is a awesome game that did have few things that did live up to the hype and did deliver decently... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homes225
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 2, 2006 4:20 am PT
Review:  Neverwinter Nights leads you into the game after the tutorial with a great story about a attack 
 on your academy and you must get to the bottom of it which leads to many other quests. NWN also 
 is guided by Dungeons and Dragons rules that is a nice ode to the game (not videogame) that started 
 the whole RP scene. Even though NWN doesn't have the greatest graphics because it was released 
 in early 2002, the game provides a suprisingly fun gameplay experience. If you are stuck in the 
 single player game you can always go into Co-op story mode or any of the other modes online for 
 hours of fun with your friends. The modules for NWN are plentiful with the numbers into the thousands 
 because players can create their own worlds and quests based on the NWN construction set. To top 
 it off NWN single player has hundreds of hours of gaming and you can get even more hours by playing 
 multiplayer. While NWN does have solid gameplay and many hours of fun the boss battles can be very 
 tough but the rewards for beating them usually pay off generously. Also the enemies you encounter 
 can be very repetitive but what RPG doesn't have common character models. After loads of hours 
 in the Neverwinter world you release that Neverwinter Nights is an instant classic RPG that delivers 
 in many ways and has a bright future ahead for the sequel, Neverwinter Nights 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aussinator
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 27, 2006 7:01 am PT
Review:  Neverwinter Nights consists of a massive, yet intimate map. The game leaves little room for improvement, 
 with a delicate and interesting storyline, which the player can effect, making the game replayable. 
 Unfortunately, subsequent expansions where less involving, however for a gamer 'in it' for the 
 story, i would suggest looking into the expansions for a deeper and more involving experience.
 
  The items are ... ok. however, there are skills and pathways that can be learnt/taken to add bonuses, 
 or even customise the look of your weaponary. The game has a rather large inventory of items, many 
 of which can be crafted from raw materials found within the map.
  The game has multiplayer, which is always fun for RPGs, and is more than adequately implemented 
 into this game with little to no bugs.
  An impressive game with great textures and reasonable graphics for it's time is definitely worth 
 the time ... for a real gamer  . have fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: artemis1814
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 5, 2006 1:07 pm PT
Review:  No more dices. Neverwinter Nights takes care of the rolling, its that awsome. The graphics is ok, 
 the sounds fine. Yea... Its awsome on multiplayer and single. RPG's, Action, Arena, ect. You can 
 create your own world, npc, creatures, to your own weapons and armor. Put your game on multiplayer 
 so other people can join. If you don't know what Dm's are, they are Dungeon Masters. They control 
 everything, except for youif you made the module. So hire some responsible people to be DM's. When 
 your about to make a module it will be confusing. Took me awhile to figure out everything. The 
 hardest part is scripting. You don't really need them if you only want to kill things. I can't 
 help you with that part. Well anyway It's awsome game and you must try it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bharrison911
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 4, 2006 11:03 am PT
Review:  I have played RPGs on many different systems over the years, but this is definitely one of the 
 best that I have ever played on the PC. The character building was definitely accurate to what 
 I have expected from AD&D rules and design. The ability to create characters that had multi-class 
 types was a great treat. 
  
  One problem that I had with the game was that it could be a little sluggish at times from a graphical 
 perspective. The sounds were fantastic and very indicitive of each area that I was in. 
  
  The only thing that I did not like about the game was the character control and interaction with 
 NPCs. The character control was very sluggish and very hard to maintain a good pace. There needed 
 to be a way where you could control the characters movements in a more of non-stop type manner 
 rather than in jerky pieces. The interaction with NPCs was also kind of slow, because it took so 
 long to go through a given conversation. 
  
  Aside from those couple of flaws, an absolutely fantastic game and fantastic story. Well worth 
 the time it took to complete. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blazer88
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 4, 2006 8:08 am PT
Review:  This definately one of the best roleplaying games ever made. With user made persistant worlds I 
 was able to experience a level of RP'ing that you will never get in games like Final Fantasy,... or 
 Oblivion. It uses D&D rules which pretty much automatically makes it better than pretty much anything 
 out there anyways. And you will have to actually do a little thought when making your character. And 
 with it's expansions this game only got better, particuliarly if you add Hordes which has a whole 
 lot of new content. The learning curve on this game is much,.... much longer on this game than probably 
 any out there as it can take awhile to really understand the complexity of character progression,.. however 
 it pays to take the time as it provides a much more interesting class sytem than the rather boring 
 one in game likes Oblivion. However this will be learned over time and isn't like you won; t be able 
 to play the game until then and more of something to the effect of a thing that will improve over 
 time you play as figure out the ins and out of what makes a great character build.
  Highly reccomended!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jwbulmer
Rating: 10
Date: May 13, 2006 4:34 am PT
Review:  In my opinion Neverwinter Nights is the greatest game out to date, and defiantly the best game 
 I have ever played.
  
  For once someone has got the perfect mix for an RPG. Impressive game play, a none stop roller coaster 
 ride of twists and turns that they then called a story line, the thousands of NPCs and the none 
 stop character development makes this the game of games that WILL rival everything before it, and 
 most probably everything after it.
  
  The character classes leave a uncountable number of possibilities (especially if you have the expansion 
 packs as well) for your character with the option to multi-class and the mountain of feats and 
 skills that you can obtain would make a real life hardened warrior weep in fear, then on to the 
 magic in the game. There are vast amounts of spells and potions to strengthen your character and 
 make the game take a whole new turn.
  
  The graphics are admittedly nothing to rival the likes of Oblivion, but they are good enough for 
 you to be amazed when you get a new spell and cast it for the first time, or encounter a new monster. 
 The scenery is marvellous to say the least and everything that is in the game is available in the 
 Aurora Toolset allowing you to make your own maps and campaigns that add a whole new lifetime of 
 playtime to the game.
  
  All in all this game would be a worthy addition to anyones game collection and I guarantee that 
 even if you didnt like RPGs before that this has something to offer everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hitcher812
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 9, 2006 6:26 am PT
Review:  What a game! I remember waiting for this game with my mates. We had such high goals to create mods 
 for it but as time would have it we found ourselves playing and playing not worring about building.
 
  Graphics were a step apart from so many others at the time. Mobs and Mobs are not alike. I want 
 that armor does it make my butt look big?
  Though when we got around to building I found the tools to do it were created with the user in 
 mind meaning that you did not have to have a degree to build you mod.
  I felt that the cost of the game was just right for what you were getting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hynnin
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 7, 2006 1:27 pm PT
Review:  Neverwinter Nights is impeccable, everything is designed and made to be just like a table RPG, 
 and it works, the dialogue and the story involves the player to the outstanding mythical world 
 that lies unseen.
  The game features catches the player to a brand new game every time that you plays it with a new 
 character, if you act as rogue, you would like to use your persuasive skills to get the information 
 without pain, but if you act like a warrior you could use some of your muscles to get what you 
 want.
  All the skills has it purposes, some more useful for some classes, others useless, but the fact 
 is, if you don't have any experience with RPGs you'd better not step aside Neverwinter Nights, 
 or you'll be completely vanquished by all the little precautions that you must care about.
  The low point of the game is that not every dialogue has its unique choices, a lot of them are 
 plain and boring (secondary quests) but the main dialogues are fun and catches the adventurer to 
 go even further to get to the answer for that puzzles.
  Neverwinter Nights doesn't really focus on battles, a lot of skills are made for it, but most of 
 the spells has the same speeches and the same visual effects, it could've been improved and the 
 melee better arranged and more real, but the entire game makes it looks fun and even tolerable 
 because the story is fabulous and it should have a continue, pity that BioWare threw that chance 
 away, better luck in Neverwinter Nights 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Najikill
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 7, 2006 6:16 am PT
Review:  I've been playing Neverwinter Nights since 2003 and i plain love it...
  
  It have like every aspects a Roleplaying game needs. Mostly i've been playin Online, Both PvP and 
 Roleplay... And it's fantastic.. It's really like playing Pin and Paper just on your computer! 
 You just dont have to do all the dice rollin and waste of time finding a date to gather all your 
 friends! In Neverwinter Nights there is always someone to Roleplay with ! :)
  
  Buy it... If you need something to spent A LOT of your time on... If you first have been dragged 
 into the world it impossible to get out... :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GPoteet15
Rating: 9.9
Date: May 1, 2006 8:00 pm PT
Review:  Yeah, I've been playing this game for over a year, and I thought that in celebration of the new 
 patch I'd write a review for this game.
  
  Everything in the game is crazy replayable, it really shines here, the multiplayer, is free, which 
 adds to the value even more, but there really are hours upon hours upon MORE hours of playability 
 here.
  
  The graphics look great, and you don't need a top-notch system to see the game's beauty. The spells 
 for the most part look beautiful and the little things have superb detail.
  
  Sound, can get repetive at times, epecially if you've played it as much as me, but everything's 
 different for the most part. And the music is outstanding.
  
  The gameplay is great, playing as a Ranger, a Cleric, a whatever. Everything is balanced, and feels 
 true. The game and story are paced well, and it's so open ended, it just offeres so much great 
 gameplay.
  
  Yah, it is by far my favorite game of all time on the PC, and The Core game, and two exspanions 
 and some extras are in the Diamond Edition, so if you haven't started yet, that's a fantastic spot 
 to get started.
  
  Do it now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -DarkFusion-
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 26, 2006 10:30 am PT
Review:  As a hardcore rpg gamer when I first heard about nwn I immediately wanted to play it and when the 
 game finally came out it was all i hoped for.
  
  Based on the 3.5 dungeons and dragons engine the game offers a big ammount of classes, races, spells, 
 skills, feats and other factors that every good rpg game must have.
  In addition, the sound and character's vpice set are superb and you can even find the voices of 
 badgers, cats and goblins!
  The graphics is sharp and detail, a variety of tillsets is offered, moving from forests to mountains 
 and even fortresses.
  The single player itself does'nt offer much and in most of its aspects it's repetitive, linear, 
 boring and the "atmosphere" of the game feels more H&S than RPG, the multiplayer, however, is diffrent 
 and it offers a HUGE ammount of servers built and designed by players.
  Using Hak packs and other addons the game becomes even more various and making your adventure even 
 better!
  The servers are divided into categories which means that the only thing you have to do is chose 
 your favoirte type of play: RP, Arena, Action, Story etc..
  
  To sum up, I can say that nwn is one of the best rpg games/games I have ever played and it's recommended 
 to any dnd fan/rpg fan/new rpg player.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jivekibbles
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 21, 2006 5:50 am PT
Review:  this is a great game, no, an amazing game. there is so much to do. You can go long with the storyline 
 and be a great hero, you can be a meddling thief or killer. you can enjoy the world of never winter 
 at your own pace.
  fighting is good enough, as our character may pull off a cool combo while your assistant could 
 be casting a major spell to blow away the enemy. there is loads of weapons, armour, spells and 
 accessories to collect throughout the game, and so much to do with them.
  a lot of N. P. C's have their own speech and a lot of hours of speech work went into this game and 
 it's worth admiring, 
  monsters look good and attack and defend pretty well. 
  my only complaint about this game is that the graphics could of been touched up a little, other 
 than that it's a superb game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 43n1m4
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 7, 2006 4:01 pm PT
Review:  Sure, this game is a polished, clean and pure D&D game. But unfortunately I find the game rather 
 generic in its approach to the D&D universe; and IMO it lacks the originality of games like Vampire: 
 Bloodlines and The Elder Scroll Series.
  
  Anyway, if you're a big fan of the D&D Forgotten Realms setting, disregard this review, as I am 
 obviously not. The plot and the twists are at the usual high level that we have come to expect 
 from Bioware, which gives flavour to a rather bland backdrop. Perhaps I lack the immersiveness 
 of the Elder Scrolls series, or the depth of characters found in other games. Its hard to point 
 the finger at anything specific. But after 30 hours in the game, and after that through the first 
 expansion, I lost interest.
  
  The game is entertaining - just not at the level of the before-mentioned games; or other Interplay, 
 Bioware/Obsidian efforts like Torment, Star Wars KOTOR I & II. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TH3_1NF1D3L
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 4, 2006 7:06 pm PT
Review:  This game is the best PC RPG out there. Better than WoW, better than FFVII, and way better than 
 Horizons. 
  
  The reasons: 
  1) It has single player. The single player game is riviting and keeps you suspecting and guessing 
 as to what is going to happen at the end. And even when you finish the game, it has so much that 
 the character has not found yet, that it has lots of replay value. 
  
  2) It has multiplay. The multiplayer aspect of the game is very well run. Now, even though, it 
 is not an MMO, this game can seem very much like an MMO. User-made mods have sprung up to make 
 persistant worlds where you act like you would in an MMO, starting from a low level and working 
 your way up. 
  
  3) Support. The support for this game is amazing. 4 years after its release, Bioware is still patching 
 the thing. Bioware is also still releasing moduals for it too. They must be very proud of this 
 game because they are still producing things for it. Missions that can still be fun after all this 
 time. 
  
  4) Expansions. Now, I am very aware that not many people on this site like the expansions for Neverwinter 
 Nights. Shadows of Undrentide and Hordes of the Underdark are immensly fun and quite addictive. 
 But, I will say, Undrentide was less fun than Underdark. But, still worth getting as it gives you 
 prestige classes. Hordes of the Underdark is better, in my opinion, because it expands the level 
 cap to 40 as opposed to 20. It also gives more prestige classes. And Hordes is about 30 hours long 
 if played on the hardest difficulty. Or, it took me that long. 
  
  Now, the drawbacks:
  1) Dated Graphics. The Aurora graphics engine is looking kinda old. It looked great when it came 
 out but has long been surpassed by other engines.
  
  2) Kinda Nerd-ish. This game is based on DnD rule base 3.0 and anyone who knows that... is a nerd. 
 Thats right, this reviewer is a nerd. Eh... whatever. I don't have a problem with it but some players 
 may.
  
  All in all, this is the best game for your value. If the player buys the Diamond version, they 
 get NWN, SoU, HotU, and a new modual to play. NWN is patched to 1.66 and so far, I believe that 
 is the newest version.
  
  Bottom line, get this game, it is like $30 at Wal-Mart. And is definatly worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: willdemers
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 2, 2006 12:56 pm PT
Review:  NWN was advertised as the next generation of the Baldur's Gate type games. Being a fan of both 
 Baldur's Gate and Icewind Dale, I was of course very eager to play this game.
  
  I was impressed, but at the same time let down.
  
  Nobody can deny that this game was exceptional. 
 It was so revolutionary in the way that it enabled gamers to not only play the premade single player 
 campaign, but also to let them build their own campaigns and create online worlds where they and 
 people across the world could play.
  
  The NWN community was one of the strongest online communities I've seen or been apart of. Bioware 
 continued to pump out sequels to add new items and elements to the game, and while they were great 
 they were never quite what we were promised or what we could have wanted.
  
  The problem was that the game came out with an already outdated engine. By the time 2002 roled 
 around, this game was too old... The single player campaign could not compete with games like Baldur's 
 Gate or Icewind Dale, but at least it had spirit.
  
  This game was the first of the NWN series and it had so much to it that the single player campaign 
 was lacking a bit. The graphics were not that good, but at least the game was fun.
  
  The sound and music was amazing as you would expect from Bioware. The music was so immersive and 
 beautiful, just as gamers had become accustomed to from games of Black Isle Studios.
  
  The amount of content and customization this game has is literally limitless and as a result the 
 community is still strong to this day. 
  
  I cannot wait for NWN2 to come out, as it will be focusing much more on making a standalone campaign, 
 while tweeking and updating the Aurora Toolset they have for making custom worlds.
  
  This game has it's pros and cons, but is still an exceptional game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Squids-Ahoy
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 29, 2006 10:48 am PT
Review:  Neverwinter Nights is arguably one of the most complete, interesting, and beautiful Dungeons and 
 Dragons games ever made with a plot that is equally as engaging as gameplay. Though there are a 
 few complaints, these are forgiven easier than a cute kitty mewing for milk. 
  Neverwinter Nights offers almost everything from a tabletop Dungeons and Dragons experience, translating 
 nearly everything perfectly to a third edition game. There are some omissions, such as whips or 
 deities, but these omissions have little effect on the game for the most part. Instead of focusing 
 on whats missing, the massive amount of content there is simply staggering. The player has the 
 ability to craft just about everything he or she could want, there are a variety of weapons to 
 beat the faces of your opponents, equally as many solutions to any given problem. All of the classes 
 are available, such as monk, warrior, or wizard, giving the player a massive amount of replay value, 
 and all feel faithful to the source material.
  NWs story is an exciting, suspenseful, and interesting with enough plot twists to keep you going 
 all the way to the end. The game starts by introducing you to the city of Neverwinter, which is 
 in the throws of a plague. Youve been called to train at the academy in hopes that you will yield 
 results along with your comrades. Of course things take a turn for the worse, the academy is attacked, 
 and its up to you and one helper to make things right.
  Neverwinter doesnt offer you a full party of people to quest with, but rather gives you the option 
 of hiring a single helper whose story you learn as time goes on. Its kind of disappointing in 
 a way that you cant run a full group of wizards and fighters on your adventures, but the system 
 works remarkably well so you dont feel overpowered, but you also dont have a walk in the park. 
 
  NW has a cooperative mode for the campaign, however, so you can fill your party if you have enough 
 people, and believe me, this is worth it. The game has stable play for multiplayer, and offers 
 a great deal of strategic gameplay, loot, and experience for any group of people. 
  By now, NW has a great deal of player created content thanks in no small part to the developers 
 kit. These mods are some of the greatest player creations for any game, giving a professional grade 
 experience for free, and thus giving even greater replay value. 
  The graphics in NW are very good, giving the player a convincing environment to explore. While 
 the environments suffer from an extremely right angled level design, this in no way diminishes 
 the look and feel of NW.
  The sound is top notch, with spell casting, fighting, and the occasional voice work all sounding 
 well done. 
  Neverwinter Nights is probably the best Dungeons and Dragons game ever made, and should you have 
 the opportunity, I would recommend you pick this up. This is the rare game that truly offers something 
 for everyone. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HectorIssac
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 28, 2006 11:24 am PT
Review:  Es de los mejores juegos que he tocado, muy buenas graficas, excelente historia, puedes jugarlo 
 una y otra vez con personjes distintos eso es lo que hace que el juego sea muy largo... espero 
 NWN2 y eso que todavia no termino NWN me falta las expansiones; pero pienso que sern igual de 
 buenos...
  
  2006 me imagino que va ha tener unos graficoa parecidos como los de Oblivion por lo que he visto 
 en unas imagenes que seria fabuloso.
  
  Espero que ya se den los requerimientos para poder ver de que esta hecho esta segunda parte y, 
 que maquina debo ahorrar para comprar; aunque yo lo juego en una Mac; dicen que el juego de PC 
 es identico. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragonmaster989
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 26, 2006 5:51 am PT
Review:  From the onset Neverwinter Nights surprises you; with the multitude of class, race, and ability 
 choices when first starting out, you are utterly stunned. There are so many different types of 
 character you could play it is great. The graphics compared to todays are a little dated but still 
 look great and the music is a nice accompaniment to the game. Gameplay itself is like that of many 
 other games (or should I say many games are like Neverwinter Nights?) , you click on a monster and 
 your character attacks him, you can use special attacks, magic, and other things while your character 
 is attacking. You can also pause the action to decide what you want to do and can queue magic and 
 other attacks. The main storyline keeps you engaged and there is always an interesting side quest 
 to accomplish. With the expansion packs for this game and its cheap cost (I got Neverwinter Nights 
 Gold for $9.99) this makes this a great value and a classic that showcases the RPG genre at its 
 best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iceteo012
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 24, 2006 11:04 pm PT
Review:  Having been a fan of pen & paper D&D, it was with great anticipation when I fired up the PC to 
 play NWN, and boy, it has been a blast even 3 years down the road.
  
  The classes are very well thought out and it is fair to say that no class has an advantage over 
 the other. The single player game has the player go on an epic journey to save the city of Neverwinter. 
 Aided by your henchmen, you will battle orcs, goblins & mighty dragons. Adding the clash of steel 
 and roaring of magical spells into the mix, Bioware delivers a hell of a product to its fans.
 
  
  But thats not all, with the provided toolset, fans can now create their own mods for the community 
 and they have taken to this like a fish to water, as shown my the many excellent mods that abound 
 in the Internet. NWN is a game that will have a very very long life in your hard disk. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lawrencevanrijn
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 23, 2006 1:47 pm PT
Review:  I have to admit that i am a total NWN junkie. I have the game on both the PC and the MAC, and they 
 truly rock on both systems. I have played the game 4 times now, and i still look forward to playing 
 it again. Growing a character from acolyte to a truly terrifying master is challenging in so many 
 ways, that getting through this all is just too must to believe.
  
  The storyline of the first game is so deep and so captivating, that when you reach chapter 2 you 
 are just beyond believe that chapter 1 is only the introduction to one hell of a game.
  The wide setup that some missions can only be done by certain classes add to the pleasure and desire 
 to play it again and to solve the riddles of another class. 
  
  The game is shear perfection in all ways of an RPG, and for those who thought that Baldurs gate 
 was great, will soon learn that the creators of both these games surpassed anything they did with 
 Neverwinter Nights.
  
  And every night i go to bed, knowing that the next morning i am one day closer to Neverwinter nights 
 2.
  
  Some games just give meaning to life, this is one of them.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: puresthate
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 20, 2006 10:59 am PT
Review:  Neverwinter Nights was a revelation for me. I'd never particularly had much exposure to RPGs and 
 I picked it up after a recommendation from a friend. Thank you friend, thank you.
  
  The graphics aren't mind-blowing. They are functional and some of the monster design and particle 
 effects are impressive, but over-all they aren't anything to write home about. The same goes for 
 the sound, with some of the stirring music themes being the highlight and the decent, but too sporadic 
 voiceover being a problem.
  
  What makes NWN such a great game is it's immense replayability. Of course, like most RPGs there 
 is a great degree of character customisation, with many standard classes available. Playing the 
 game with different characters, makes for uniquely different experiences. I do tend to play using 
 the sheer brute force characters like barbarians and fighters so I don't know extensively about 
 the magic characters, but I'm sure they are just as playable.
  
  The single player game is very long and immersive, featuring many twists and turns, some of which 
 are cliched and some are unexpected. Although, from a Noobie perspective, the nature of the story 
 and its chapter based development was a good lead-in to the world of RPG playing. The monster and 
 level design is well thought out and there are plenty of optional side-quests which alongside the 
 main quest. There are also some memorable characters, particularly in the forms of the tragic Aribeth 
 and the cheeky Tomi. With regards to items, there is a vast gamut of different weapons and armour 
 available. However, I would have personally liked to see some of the sets and unique items, much 
 like those in the Diablo series, as this would have made the campaign even more replayable.
  
  Whilst the rest options and stone of recall make gameplay a little simple at times, there are 
 plenty of increasingly challenging monsters, traps and puzzles to keep the player on their toes.
 
  
  The Dungeon-Master option and also the Aurora toolset give users the option to fully create and 
 customise their own worlds and also upload them to the huge NWN internet resource which provides 
 friendly support and a huge catalogue of further user-created content which can be downloaded for 
 further replayability.
  
  NWN has given me 100s of hours of constant enjoyment, especially when played in conjunction to 
 the expansion packs which have been released. I am eagerly awaiting NWN 2 to see how the universe 
 can be expanded with all new graphics and other gameplay possibilities. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rafa_dhalsim
Rating: 6.8
Date: Mar 5, 2006 6:07 pm PT
Review:  At the beguining it apears to be a great game. The character creation, the new rules about leveling, 
 you could almost see the sun beams coming through your window because you spent the whole night 
 playing. 
  At the beguining the first problem: you can only play with one character!!.... How come!!!... Role 
 playing games are fun because you play roles!!.. Duh!!... The more roles you play the better!!... Some 
 may say: "But you have henchmen!!"... The henchmen are more annoying then the Ilithid!!... And ilithid 
 are way too annoying eating brains and stuff!!
  Ok!! But then you finishes the first act. It was nice, things were a bit predictable but who cares!!... and 
 then another set o quest, as linear as the ones before!!... Not nice, Not nice!!
  Too linear
  Too shalow
  If you liked Baldur's Gate, Icewind Dale, you are going to be disapointed 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: excaliburblade
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 2, 2006 9:30 am PT
Review:  My girlfriend gave me this game. I started playing it and I became addicted to it. The game is 
 immersive. It reminds me a lot of the Fallout series. Neverwinter Nights is a fun role-playing-game. 
 You can customize your portrait, race, class, look, name, age, ect. As you progress in the game, 
 your abilities increase and you develop as a character. You have the ability to multiclass, which 
 means that you can combine your character classes with your base character. I really like that 
 aspect of the game. It allows for complete character growth. 
  The single player story mode is indepth and quite challenging. After playing Neverwinter, I am 
 curious as to what improvements the expansions and the sequel will hold. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: crypto-236
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 27, 2006 11:30 am PT
Review:  You might think that a game like Neverwinter Nights probably isn't very healthy for the gaming 
 industry. After all, this is the sort of game you could easily play for months or even longer. 
 Simply put, once you get into Neverwinter Nights, you'll likely have no need or desire to play 
 another role-playing game for a long time -- or any other game for that matter. And while that's 
 unfortunate for any game trying to compete, it's certainly a good thing as far as most gamers should 
 be concerned. They'll find that Neverwinter Nights is indeed the end-all, be-all Dungeons & Dragons 
 RPG that it's been touted to be for the last several years. 
  
  A plague befalls the city of Neverwinter, and you must investigate. They might also be surprised 
 to find that Neverwinter Nights is actually very accessible, much more so than most RPGs, making 
 it equally recommendable to new players and to hard-core role-playing fans. Yet the latter group 
 especially will appreciate Neverwinter Nights, since it includes not just an excellent stand-alone 
 RPG, but also BioWare's powerful Aurora toolset, which effectively lets aspiring dungeon masters 
 create their very own adventures. They can then get their friends together to play these modules 
 and manipulate them -- DM them -- in real time. So here it is at last: the pen-and-paper D&D experience 
 on your PC. In short, Neverwinter Nights was definitely worth the wait. But it's not necessarily 
 what you might have expected, particularly in its campaign and multiplayer features. 
  
  To set the record straight, Neverwinter Nights basically contains four different elements: the 
 campaign, the toolset, the DM client, and the multiplayer mode. The first of these is the brunt 
 of the game, and it's by all means a lengthy, highly entertaining D&D campaign. It's comparable 
 with and in many ways superior to BioWare's previous RPGs -- or any other top-notch RPG to date for 
 that matter. If Neverwinter Nights offered nothing other than this campaign, it would still be 
 one of the best RPGs to come out in years. If you're looking to buy Neverwinter Nights for a traditional 
 role-playing experience, then this highly replayable 60-to-80-hour campaign, with its great story 
 and countless optional side quests, won't disappoint you, despite having a few minor problems. 
 
  
  But then there's also the Aurora toolset, a separate utility for creating your own campaign modules. 
 This is an impressive program that's reasonably user-friendly, considering how much it lets you 
 do. In the Aurora toolset, you basically get the license to use the Neverwinter Nights game engine 
 to make just about any type of fantasy adventure you can imagine. Some technical aptitude is required, 
 and some programming knowledge will help if you wish to script your own events, making the toolset's 
 learning curve not at all comparable with the learning curve of a typical game. Coming to grips 
 with the toolset is rather more like trying to learn programs like Adobe Photoshop or Illustrator. 
 That is, you can figure a lot of it out on your own, you can learn a lot of it through instruction, 
 and what you can do with it is limited only mostly by your own skill and talent. The game doesn't 
 ship with a complete set of documentation for the toolset, but because of the community appeal 
 of Neverwinter Nights, the answers to any questions you might have about it are just waiting to 
 be read on the game's official message boards. 
  
  3rd Edition D&D lets you make some very powerful characters. In addition to the campaign and the 
 toolset, Neverwinter Nights includes a DM client, which lets you play the game using the godlike 
 powers of a pen-and-paper D&D dungeon master, able to manipulate the proceedings of any module 
 in real time and at your whim. You can take control over any character, you can give players items 
 and experience, and do much more. Like the Aurora toolset, this isn't easy -- especially because 
 you're something of a performance artist in your role as DM, and your audience's enjoyment depends 
 largely on your actions. But the DM client has an efficient interface and is one of the key differences 
 that can separate a Neverwinter Nights module from a player-generated map for some other game. 
 After all, though you can use the toolset to create a fun-filled stand-alone dungeon hack of some 
 sort, in conjunction with the DM client, you can truly create a unique role-playing experience 
 for someone -- and for yourself. If you've ever played a pen-and-paper RPG, especially as the DM, 
 then you probably have an idea of the Neverwinter Nights DM client's potential. 
  
  Regardless of whether or not you wish to be DM, the multiplayer option of Neverwinter Nights basically 
 lets you host your own module over the Internet or join in on someone else's game. Neverwinter 
 Nights doesn't ship with a built-in multiplayer content, but the campaign can be played through 
 by groups of players that can cooperate or try to foil one another along the way. Beyond that, 
 the game's multiplayer mode is completely community-driven. Essentially, in making Neverwinter 
 Nights, BioWare created a powerful toolset and then used it to build a superb role-playing game 
 that should be inspiring for any would-be module maker, and now, it has opened the floodgates for 
 user-created content.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Demagorgon
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 24, 2006 4:21 am PT
Review:  Neverwinter Nights is not a bad game, but it could of been so much more. 
  
  Bioware made this game with its Aurora engine, which they also used to make Knights of the Old 
 Republic. The Aurora engine is basically an adaption of the 3rd edition D&D rule set.
  
  After spending many months playing both Baldur's Gate II and Diablo II, I was expecting this game 
 to be an advanced, 3D version of Baldur's Gate. 
  I was wrong. (For those who don't know, Baldur's Gate II was the game Bioware made before this 
 one, which is also more fun than Neverwinter Nights)
  
  You don't get to control a party of characters like you did in Baldur's Gate II, instead you have 
 to control one usermade character. You also get the option of taking one henchman along. Just one. 
 
  
  In Baldur's Gate II you don't have the feeling that it's you VS. the rest of the world, as you 
 often have fights where it's you and your party of five people versus a small group of 5-6 weaker 
 enemies or a singular really strong enemy. In Neverwinter Nights, its just you and maybe one other 
 person against sometimes 10-15 enemies. In Baldur's Gate II a dragon is one of the toughest opponents 
 in the game, in which it takes the strength and courage of your whole party, to defeat a singular 
 dragon. In Neverwinter Nights, you have to fight two at once, by yourself or maybe with a Henchman.
 
  
  I was expecting there to be a wide variety of sidequests, but was there? No there wasn't. This 
 game is linear, and has a much weaker story than that of previous and future Bioware RPGs. 
  
  This game is basically the illigetimate child of Dungeons and Dragons and Diablo II. If you 
 enjoy the hack and slash style gaming of Diablo, then by all means get this game. Ignore me. But 
 if you prefer a more traditional RPG, then go find yourself a copy of Planescape: Torment or the 
 other game that I mentioned a couple of times throughout this review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThieveryCo
Rating: 7.7
Date: Feb 23, 2006 9:58 am PT
Review:  NWN is an amazing game. First time Ive played, I felt like all the images I had in my head concerning 
 the world of AD&D were coming true. Just like the feeling you have the first time you watch the 
 LOTR movies, after having read the books. This game reflects so much this world and rules that 
 I was gaming with my Players Handbook and Monstrous Handbooks of AD&D on hand. 
  
  Unfortunately, even if the game is not that linear, something is missing in the storyline. It feels 
 like the challenges are always repetitive. Also, if you really want to get deep in the story, prepare 
 yourself for hours and hours of reading. Finally, just as in the original AD&D board game, the 
 characters dont level-up real fast, but this time, you are not having discussions with your friends 
 while levelling-up. This situation leads to a pretty hard game, especially with the major bosses 
 and restrain your set of available skills. At the end, you choose to play a Fighter because he 
 gets more feats than any other characters and let you dive faster in the middle of the action. 
 
  
  Still a must to try if you are an AD&D fan !
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: limraz
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 20, 2006 1:43 am PT
Review:  Neverwinter Nights gameplay/interface and D&D rules make him one of the best RPG i`ve played. For 
 those who played KOTOR 1 first - like me - the interface seem easy enough to use and the character 
 upgrading are somehow primitive . This doesn`t affect the game addiction you`ll developed after 
 a while, grace to intelligent missions and open universe.
  The huge amount of items arecounterattackedby the difficulty to make easy a buck - a trade 
 for Bioware - , but in the end you`ll play for fun , not to accomplish one or another quest . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xiven
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 17, 2006 11:15 pm PT
Review:  Neverwinter Nights is based on D&D where instead of you rolling the dice and doing the calculation, 
 here it's all done by the AI. The difficulty is just right while the learning curve will just take 
 non-D&D players around 30~60 minutes and D&D players around 0~30 minutes.
  
  What you must really appreciate in this game is its story and the customizing of your character. 
 It is just fantasic!
  
  The gameplay here is works like D&D where you take turns to attack your opponent. If your initiative 
 is high, you'll have the first attack, then to the second highest and so on.
  
  Bioware focus on the character so much that whatever action you take in-game will determine your 
 character to be either good or evil. The character system here is vast, from a Halfling Fighter 
 to a Barbarian Sorcerer.
  
  The sound is just plain awesome, Bioware really took the voice acting as an important factor, the 
 way the NPCs talk are really realistic unlike some games where their voices are mostly monotonous. 
 The soundtrack is by Jeremy Soule, this makes your gaming experience through NWN even better!
 
  
  The graphics here are mediocre, the characters are kind of boxy. Other than that, the sceneries 
 are quite good.
  
  All in all, Neverwinter Nights is really NEVERending, even after completing single player, you'll 
 be so addicted that you'll move on to downloading modules made by other players and even playing 
 online with newly met strangers.
  
  For any of you RPG or D&D lovers, this is a game worth buying, you will not regret it, I promise.
 
  
  My ratings for it is a superb 9.7/10! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mehfuz
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 16, 2006 6:33 pm PT
Review:  Neverwinter Nights is the best RPG games I have ever played. Why not  it has all the essentials 
 that a good RPG game must have. From start to end it is a game full of nicely balanced quests, 
 a fantastic story that drives the whole game and huge world to explore. Like all the other games 
 of this genre you will start with character selection  there are many things to choose from in 
 every selection like race, class, ability, feats. After that you will find the wonderful world 
 of neverwinter Nights. There are above 100 quests, some optional ones too. You can also hire a 
 companion. And there are many to choose from. There are countless amounts of objects in the game 
  from potion to armor and weapon. It is possible to store considerable amount of items in your 
 backpack. I like one thing very much  the opportunity to replenish health by resting  it saves 
 lots of health potion and other thing that you can return to main hall any time during game. This 
 is a game that you can play for a long time and there is possibility that you want to play it for 
 the second time or even third time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pol215
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 7, 2006 12:58 pm PT
Review:  i never was a realy big fan of rpg i started to play this game only becoz my friends made me ... 
 but after i advanced in the story line and in the game it self i fell in love with him even if 
 the graphic is a lil old for now for example it cant even compare to games with graphics like doom 
 3, f. e. a. r, quake 4 and more... but still it got a realy good and long... story line and quite interesting 
 as well ... well for the end i don't got anything else to say about this game exapt... WOW!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A_Viper
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 5, 2006 6:48 am PT
Review:  Neverwinter Nights is undoubtably one of the most important games ever released. It is a gorgeous 
 and immersive game that sucks you in to it and will have you playing it over and over again. In 
 terms of graphics and replay value it is a major step in the advancement of RPGs.
  
  Even to someone who is experienced with RPGs, Neverwinter Nights may seem a little intimidating 
 at first. The instruction book is huge, and there seems to be so many character options that at 
 first you may not know what to do. Any feelings of bewilderment will soon pass though as the game 
 guides you step by step through character creation and also takes you through the basics of gameplay 
 during the prologue. Having completed this you should have no problem going into the main adventure. 
 There are many different character classes and many options within those character classes enabling 
 you to hypothetically create hundreds of different characters, each one unique. The game is incredibly 
 long so you won't end up doing this, but still it is good to have this ability as you can create 
 a character perfectly suited to your gameplay style. 
  
  As said, the game is incredibly long, almost to the point where it becomes a little bit of a slog. 
 The story is good, though in the second and third chapters takes a bit too long to progress. Perseverance 
 is rewarded though, as the final chapter is a short and exciting experience that is full of tension. 
 Also the potential abilities and spells that characters can gain as they become more powerful make 
 all the tedious slogs through level after level of troll caves worth it in the end.
  
  In terms of sound, Neverwinter Nights is good without ever being spectacular. It has a variety 
 of different voice sets that you can choose from for your character though these are only really 
 used in occasional phrases during combat. The voice acting for the NPCs is good, though at times 
 seems a bit over-the-top and can become mildly annoying. 
  
  The graphics are what truly sets this game apart from its rivals. Each environment is different 
 and looks really good, and all of the characters are detailed and attractive. This is what the 
 Diablo games should have looked like. In terms of plot, Neverwinter Nights is inferior to Diablo 
 2, but in terms of appearance there is no comparison. This game is graphically stunning.
  
  The included toolset and DM facility allow you to create unique adventures, though as someone with 
 no programming ability I found this facility a bit intimidating. The game doesn't teach you how 
 to use the toolset, and even after downloading several guides I still was unable to use it effectively. 
 For someone skilled with this sort of program then it will be a major plus point though for the 
 average gamer it is not really accessable. It is still cool to play through other peoples creations 
 though.
  
  This is a great game, and one that I have played through with different characters many times. 
 While the plot is not spectacular, the variety of different ways that you can achieve what is needed 
 to complete the quests is endless. There are also countless adventures that others have made using 
 the toolset to play through and official expansion packs. This game will keep you occupied for 
 months.
  
  Plus it looks so damn good that you can't help but love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ssgmccoy
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 2, 2006 8:41 am PT
Review:  The graphics are good, the sound is good, the gameplay is great and very addictive. You can select 
 from many different races, classes, and skills. There are plenty of user created MODs on the web 
 to download as well. So if you're bored of the included mission... download another. Neverwinter 
 Nights comes with the tools to make your own MOD adventures as well. There are also premium MODs 
 for the game, which are on the official bioware website. There are 3 expansion packs that you'll 
 want to get your hands on. They add new single player adventures, races, classes, skills, and items. 
 The expansion packs also give you more template tools for building your own homebrew MOD. You'll 
 enjoy playing a variety of different characters. Be a human magic user, an axe slinging dwarf, 
 a half-elf archer, or just about any other combination you can imagine. You can even play with 
 your friends on-line in group adventures. If you're a D&D or RPG fan, you'll love Neverwinter Nights. 
 You'll not be disappointed. It'll give you unlimitied play time with all the content out there. 
 So, it's well worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tharkun89
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 31, 2006 5:53 am PT
Review:  I am usualy the one who dislikes turn-based games. I tried Nights of the Old Republic and I couldn't 
 stand the fighting. The story is the only thing that kept me into it. It is the same case with 
 Neverwinter Nights. However, the fighting is more tolerable in this game. I like the choose-your-destiny 
 qualities and the character creation is wonderful. I though that the spells where the coolest part 
 of the game. The graphics are amazing and the particle effects are awsome. This game has the wonderful 
 feature of letting you be able to say what you want to the other characters with little negative 
 feedback. You can scam people into giving you money or evan force them to. You can even pickpocket 
 people. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ImDrFreak
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 30, 2006 2:02 pm PT
Review:  It's 2006, four years after the release of Neverwinter Nights. On one hand, you might think this 
 review too late. Though I like to think of it as - I've had lots of time to play this game.
  
  Note - I am only reviewing the game as originally released, without any of the expansions. 
 The game is improved dramatically with the expansions, and I highly recommend anyone who gets the 
 game to pick up the currently available "Diamond" edition.
  
  Neverwinter Nights was everything Bioware promised. They told us that it would have a great engine 
 and tools which allowed for nearly limitless modification and player "campaigns". This is true. 
 They also said that it would include a long Single-player campaign. This is also true. It's just 
 too bad that the Single player campaign is so mediocre.
  
  The single player campaign starts you off as a single character in a sort of training facility 
 for potential heroes. You walk around, talk to people go through some combat training, all to get 
 used to the interface and learn how to play - then are thrust into the adventure. I don't really 
 want to give too much away, but the adventure is long, with lots of your standard fighting, buying 
 better stuff, and fighting some more. The story is wholly unoriginal - the standard "ancient evil 
 - you are our only hope - yadda yadda yadda" and is plagued by generally uninteresting side-quests 
 (and an even more uninteresting main quest) and completely bland NPCs - Especially the primary 
 NPC "Aribeth" - one of the most boring, vapid, and pointless characters ever. It's your job to 
 redeem or defeat this "noble" fan-service icon.
  
  In addition, the single-player campaign - while based in the world of Dungeons & Dragons, has none 
 of the feel of a D&D "campaign" - something that was generally hyped about. Smaller nitpicks to 
 this was that it was missing a number of the (again hyped) 3rd edition enhancements including many 
 spells, and even a class or three. Some of the enhancements, while included were changed dramatically 
 from their pen & paper functionality - supposedly to work "better" in a computer game environment. 
 A larger nitpick would be the total lack of a party. Yep - No party. You spend the entire game 
 playing as a lone character with a maximum of one "henchman" (and perhaps a "familiar" (pet) ) 
 - A dramatic departure from Bioware (and Black Isles) previous efforts - the (absolutely brilliant) 
 Baldur's Gate series. These points and many other small ones add up to - not really much of a "Dungeons 
 & Dragons" experience.
  
  All that said - technically and control-wise, the game is quite good. The graphics and animations 
 are decent (they were very good when the game was released) and the control and game play mechanics 
 are intuitive and easy to learn. While the camera can be an issue at times, it doesn't distract 
 from the game as a whole very much.
  
  Now we get to the real meaty meat of the Neverwinter Nights experience - Multiplayer and User-created 
 content. Bioware did the best possible thing with this game in releasing a variety of tools for 
 people to create their own content and campaigns, and they did - oh how they did ever. Neverwinter 
 Nights ended up second only to the Sims series in the sheer volume of user-created content - from 
 skins to weapons, items, tiles, to full adventures and multi-adventure campaigns - Neverwinter 
 Nights has it to spare... Not all of it is good... Much of it isn't - But some is. Some is very 
 good. ( *cough*  *cough* ) and really shows the included 
 single player campaign's flaws. Once you get a taste of some of the best rated user-made campaigns 
 you really realize that all the original had going for it was length. The fun is tripled when you 
 play the game multi-player (generally LAN, where you can be sure that people are going to stick 
 around for a while) . This is really the only and best way that you can get that D&D "party" feel. 
 Add to that the ability to have a live "dungeon master" with controls to warp the campaign to their 
 storytelling will and create encounters on the fly, and you've suddenly turned something mediocre 
 into something wonderful.
  
  My final score on Neverwinter Nights is moderately low, compared to many others - but it takes 
 into consideration the negativity I feel from the original campaign and the great times I had with 
 user mods and multiplayer. As a final word, I -do- recommend the game... but also remember you'll 
 be doing lots of downloading. The game has a community and you'd be best to become part of it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Buick87GNXv6
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 26, 2006 2:03 am PT
Review:  First off I want to say I am sick of people talking about baldurs gate, give it a rest already, 
 yes it was good but do we have to compare every rpg to it for the rest of eternity.
  
  ok now that I've got my chest let's start.
  
  I was actually one of the people who enjoyed 
 the single player experience so I don't see what the complaints were about. I guess I don't try 
 and think too much when I play games so I don't work out where it is going. NPC's give pretty good 
 and varied dialogue and I enjoyed the side quests. The main character aribeth is quite strong in 
 her performance and portrayal of her actions. I felt quite emotive about the story and I think 
 that's what makes a good RPG. Your henchmen and varied and interesting and generally and pretty 
 good at fighting and keeping themselves out of trouble. Selecting appropriate dialogue options 
 can lead your characters to build quite a friendship so they are more than just expendable mercs 
 for hire. It'll take maybe a good 30+ hours to finish if you take your time by doing the sidequests 
 and exploring every portion of the map. 
  
  I liked the graphics alot, only beef I have is the character models are a bit blocky especially 
 around the joints and run like they are constipated. It was nice to see all the different armour 
 and weapons equipped. I think the spell effects are probably the best of any D&D game.
  
  Sound was incredible I loved the music and it had a great number of different tracks to fit the 
 mood as well. Sound effects were great as well with aptly fitting spell and battle effects.
  
  I think there is a fair amount of reply especially with all the mods out there, and the ability 
 to try all the different classes as well as the henchmen.
  
  I'd also suggest buying the hordes of the underdark expansion as I felt that it was even more engaging 
 the original. Though the same can't be said for shadows of unrentide which i'd avoid buying unless 
 you were desperate to try a certain prestige class.
  
  So all in all I thought nwn was a great RP experience, single player included. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ihminen
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 26, 2006 12:32 am PT
Review:  This RPG changed my life, because before this i played  and 
 found out they sucked. NWN's story is very epic and very good, i came addicted to the game so much 
 im still playing it and finding new stuff i haven't seen. My best character is lvl 40 fighter, 
 sorcerer and red dragon disciple (have all expansions and raised it with REAL playing so i didn't 
 use any level cheats or maps) . Cant say i can find any flaws from the game. And also i recommend 
 downloading CEP. You can download it from NWN Vault. CEP gives many new faces, weapons, portraits 
 and creatures. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nodham
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 13, 2006 3:40 am PT
Review:  Neverwinter Nights is a little like Diablo without the insane clicking. Not in gameplay terms, 
 as NWN uses a combination of realtime and turn-based combat, but in its story and tasks. While 
 there are many NPCs to speak with and quests to undertake, you'll be spending most of your time 
 killing things and retrieving items - there's hardly any XP to be found in dialogues. 
  The story is divided into four chapters, and each chapter brings you a new 'home base' where you 
 can resupply, get healed, and hire a henchman. 
  While the main story is adequate and entertaining enough, it's your usual Evil Rises, Hero Vanquishes 
 scenario prevalent in most RPGs. Not much in the way of surprises, either. Dilemmas usually have 
 two solutions, kill or don't kill, and you may find yourself completing quests without even knowing 
 it. Where the game shines, however, is in the character classes. The main work in Neverwinter Nights' 
 creation obviously went into balancing and implementing the various races, classes and feats available. 
 Human, Half-Orc, Gnome, Dwarf, Elf ... different strengths and weaknesses, and a different game 
 experience. Not to mention whether you're a Fighter, Druid, Wizard, and so on. 
  Fittingly, replay value isn't in the storyline or discovering new quests, but new ways to kill 
 things. 
  Plodding and backtracking is kept to a minimum courtesy of useful teleportation portals that sometimes 
 open when you've gotten to the end of a dungeon. This is great design, as otherwise you'd have 
 to wander back through three levels of empty rooms with empty containers. Nicely done! You can 
 also teleport back to a temple in your base town for free, but it costs some money to return to 
 where you were. Considering you can get healed for free in town, it's worth it. 
  My main complaint about NWN is how basic all your tasks are. After a few hours of playing you'll 
 have probably seen all the environments the game has to offer - cave, shack, house, forest, castle 
 (prison) , and since all you do in them is kill things and open boxes, I started yearning for inventive 
 ways to complete a quest. There are, however, a few areas that overcome the stereotype of NPCs 
 battling the evil that stalks the land by standing around, such as a village frozen in time and 
 an area with dwarfs battling dryads (or was it the other way around?) . These are memorable and 
 well crafted and make you wish the rest of the areas were as intriguing.
  Henchmen are useful characters you can bring along with you. You can choose from several classes 
 of character and give them basic commands, although you can't directly control them or use their 
 inventory. Which makes sense, if I joined up with an adventurer I wouldn't be thrilled if the first 
 thing he did was take all my money and burden me with some armor and other things he needed carried. 
 Expansion packs enable this, as the game sometimes tells you at load screens, which is either earnest 
 explanation or subtle marketing.
  
  In the end, this should be a great stepping stone for those who loved Diablo and want something 
 a little less fast-paced and with more depth to the character classes. Anyone who played Star Wars 
 Knights of the Old Republic (1 or 2) should feel right at home here. Just don't go in expecting 
 Planescape Torment with elves. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pruker
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 24, 2006 5:52 pm PT
Review:  Neverwinter Night takes players into a different world where everything is possible and it digs 
 players into a deep chasm of suspense and betrayal. The main downfall of this game is the dialog 
 which is very dissapointing. The gameplay is fairly interesting and gives you pleasure in playing. 
 The game offers variety of different classes which allows players to choose professions which fit 
 for the players. The monsters are fairly challenging but with the right skill and technique it 
 can be beaten easily. The game is long and would consume alot of time into playing and is not for 
 unpatient gamers. Devotion is the key to Neverwinter Nights it clearly deserves an applause. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ultima1551
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 17, 2006 4:39 pm PT
Review:  Neverwinter Nights is not exactly the game that I feel most people will look for. If you want a 
 fast-paced non-stop hack and slash, you might want to look somewhere else. In NWN, there are several 
 time where you must set up camp and rest for about thirty seconds or so before you can go into 
 the next room. Leveling up is extremely hard if you use the re-spawn function. The graphics however 
 are nearly flawless for a massive environment filled with enemies flying every which way. If you 
 are new to the D&D style games and you do not know much about the dice rolls, then this is definitely 
 a good learning game. The Aurora 3 engine runs almost flawlessly, completely by itself. If you 
 are not paying attention, you may not even notice at first that the outcome of everything is determined 
 by a die count. I say this is a great computer port of the Pen and Paper version. Top notch! It 
 is a little on the difficult side, however; this does not take away from the game play because 
 you can turn the AI down if you need to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maegnas
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 14, 2006 8:26 am PT
Review:  One of the best RPG's i have played in my life. I think it reveals the true power of a well done 
 RPG. It has a lot of the feeling you get from playing Baldurs Gate wrapped up into it, and i feel 
 like it makes you longing for more, even though the game is like 100+ hours. It truly resembles 
 everything you could want in a RPG, the story really keeps your attention, and with all the spells 
 and abilities that can be obtained and performed, you will never lose interest. The difficulty 
 is just right, and it gives you great power over making a character class you really enjoy, it 
 gives lots of flexibility and multiple options. Great game and i would recommend it to anyone looking 
 for an addicting RPG!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smerlus
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 6, 2006 11:07 pm PT
Review:  First I should start off saying that the instruction manual is your friend. Being one of the finest 
 and largest of the manuals aside, there is a wealth of information about this game. One can just 
 flip through the pages and build a character in their head. If youre a beginner or youve forgotten 
 some of the rules along the way, a quick look into the manual will surely help.
  
  As you could probably suspect, Neverwinter Nights graphic engine is showing signs of its age. 
 Starting off, the character creation looks pretty dated by todays standards. The character models 
 are very blocky and not too pleasant looking. Once the game starts however, things take a decent 
 turn. Some of the areas are pretty large and detailed, while others are small and are just as finely 
 detailed. Most of the creature models look adequate. I have to admit that the dragons look pretty 
 nice though. They are by far the best looking creatures in the game. The cut scenes are provided 
 in storyboard format, with drawings of pretty good quality.
  
  The story is one of epic proportions. A deadly plague, numerous betrayals, cowardly king, ancient 
 evil and even a touch of racism rears its head. The plot is sometimes overwhelming but does a 
 good job of making it feel like the character is becoming a legend. This grand scheme does not 
 come without its price. Numerous times the story drags along, especially in the first act. The 
 goals are set out almost immediately, but the game throws out constant obstacles which drags out 
 a short quest for far too long. The game does have some amazing scripting, and tries to keep things 
 varied throughout.
  
  The sound of the game is the typical fantasy fanfare. Voice acting is done pretty well but there 
 are far too many times where the conversations start off with audio only to turn into reading after 
 a few sentences. Also, some of the voicing for non-important NPCs is used over and over again. 
 
  
  Gameplay stays pretty varied throughout with numerous ways to complete each quest. While D&D adventures 
 usually consist of large groups of heroes, Neverwinter Nights never touches on this. A single mercenary 
 ally is all you get to join you. Fortunately this game has a rather robust online feature. If youre 
 more into the solo single player, there are a number of mercenaries to choose from to complement 
 your own hero. As for actually playing your own character, heroes other than the wizard and warrior 
 types should have an urgency to role play. While the rogue that my character is had no chance of 
 dispatching the dragons he came up against in melee combat, he was still able to walk away without 
 losing a single hit point due to some resourceful thinking. That is the true beauty of the game. 
 There are dozens of ways to get past each encounter according to your discipline.
  
  In closing, Ive had this game since it came out and it is still fun to play for the most part. 
 Each time through there are new things to find and new mistakes to be made (a rogue + a bard = 
 constant saving and respawning) . Rarely does a game have this much staying power with me, but with 
 the expansions, both official and non-official, Neverwinter Nights will stay in my disc tray for 
 quite some time.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Billypooped
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 6, 2006 9:08 pm PT
Review:  I wanted to play neverwinter because being from a family of gamers i like all the games. I Dont 
 really like rpg games but never winter was an exception. Nice graphics but they say the same thing 
 over again when attacking. I had to play it tice 8D. I reccomend buy the expansions likei did and 
 deafeting them all. That took me some time. i think they should have had more weapons if u ask me. But 
 over all i really liked the game. I like to play it on the internet sometime. I thought the way it 
 had all the creatures and classes like in the book reqallly made it what it is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kiatebake
Rating: 2.7
Date: Jan 6, 2006 7:31 am PT
Review:  To start with, this game has a incredibly bad system of magic, either you have to chose to place 
 spells in slots (could be good, but there is not enough!) or you will have to go trough a meny, 
 kinda annyoing in the middle of the heat.
  
  the storyline is bad, it's based on a plauge and then develops into evil lizards from the past (sigh) .
 
  you start in a academy and the just shoots of into the story.
  
  the grapics are almost designed for headaches and the camerasystem is bad, the music is horrible 
 and the dialouge is worthless.
  
  The aligment system is just not good and the quests are idiotic.
  
  Don't buy this game, i 
 would expect a good game from these guys but this is just no acceptable.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Perth68
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jan 5, 2006 12:44 am PT
Review:  The game has a nice base system, plenty of numbers and stay true with its DnD roots. Character 
 options are limited (but not bad for when it was made) and the profiles are restrictive, but easy 
 to make your own. The games original campaign and battle system are what ruin the game.
  
  In battle sequences are not very exciting or interesting, the whole system feels a bit restrictive, 
 uninventive, and boring. The music is altogether forgettable, the graphics are decent with the 
 time including some nice art, and art direction. Sound effects are also good, really adding to 
 the atmosphere of the game.
  
  The campaign fails at giving the player incentive to play. The beginning is much to drab and slowly 
 depresses the player, perhaps intended but this makes playing the game almost a chore. The game 
 altogether fails at giving me a reason to play, its not fun enough to push through it and there 
 is no in game interest at that point. I ended up stopping, never reaching past the first few sequences 
 of the game. So it may improve as it progresses.
  
  The main selling point of this game to me ultimately never formed. The game includes an excellent 
 editor in which you can build your own campaigns, it also has online play. Both of these were severely 
 lacking and I never found any fun with either. The opportunity is there but the community isn't. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: globalchimp
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 27, 2005 12:32 pm PT
Review:  Having seen the trailer that came with BGII I had waited for its release ever since.
  
  Gameplay:
  Feels very good, easy to get used to and relatively efficient. The multiplayer has 
 been extremely smoothly been integrated and playing with friends or making them along the way is 
 amazingly fun and to be honest also the core of the game in my opinion. Single-player is lacking, 
 simply because the story is too linear imo and doesn't carry enough strength to simply keep you 
 playing for the sake of the story. Also the way items drop is also a bit disappointing in my opinion, 
 too random for my likes. It's not like doing an extremely hard mission, or killing an extremely 
 tough dragon to get a certain strong item you are interested in. It feels more like 'farming' like 
 in mordern MMO's. However these last two issues have been fixed very well in the Hordes of the 
 Underdark expansion IMO.
  
  Graphics:
  Very good for it's time and allows the game to express its full potential.
  
  Sound:
  Sufficient.
 
  
  Value:
  I have played this game for countless hours and spread over quite a long time period (2-3 years 
 on and off) , the longest I've played any game. I would buy it again in a second. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yaba
Rating: 7.7
Date: Dec 27, 2005 8:04 am PT
Review:  Neverwinter nights was released in 2002 making it 3-4 years old as I am writing this . The game 
 has aged both graphicly and gameplay wise, but it is a worthy complement to the good ol' choose 
 your own action RPG on the level or greater then Knights of the Old Republic but falling just short 
 of Fallout.
  
  The Good:
  Good graphics for it's time, still in release, cool user editing feature, modding community is 
 robust, easy to understand battle interface, many classes to choose from, online play, when characters 
 do speak they are generaly well acted, fun.
  
  The Bad:
  Looks like hell for this time (Late 05) , Gameplay is a bit dated, voice acting is incomplete (NPC 
 often only speak their first lines) , story is a little dorky.
  
  All I have to say is that you have to play it to understand it. But just remember its no Fallout, 
 but it does best KOTOR.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ksherinian
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 24, 2005 9:18 am PT
Review:  Neverwinter Nights is a good game - no question about it. However, I would not lavish quite so 
 much praise on it as others have. 
  
  There are a lot of good points to this game. The graphics and sound are well done, and the main 
 story (i. e.; the one that comes with the original game) is pretty good. As can be expected with 
 a D&D game, there are a lot of options for creating a character. Further, there is a lot to explore, 
 just with the original game, and that is not including expansion modules or community content. 
 Of course, there are a few things bothering me.
  
  For one, the camera control in this game is awful. None of the different modes is very responsive 
 - I would prefer straight first person a la Morrowind. In addition, a lot of the "gameplay" elements 
 are really stale - i. e.; forcing a party to move to different sections of a dungeon to rest, trapping 
 every chest, etc. Lastly, the story is good, but the execution was just short of great. For instance, 
 in the first Chapter of the original plot, when you solve a problem in a particular area of town, 
 it doesn't change. You still hear tortured screams, zombies, etc., and don't see anyone walking 
 about. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: comptrex
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 23, 2005 4:10 pm PT
Review:  NWN takes single player to a new level. It is long, over 100 hours in most cases, involving and 
 at times evolving to your game style. I've had the oppurtunity to complete the main set and have 
 now gotten the platinum edition. I will be starting over again trying out some new classes. It 
 is the definitive statement to what an RPG should be. 
  
  Some of the pluses...
  Beautiful graphics for the time period.
  Balanced gameplay.
  Easy multiplayer integration.
 
  
  Now the cons...
  Characters look alike... no individuality.
  Some areas are hard to gauge.
  
  All in all it is one of the best games i've ever had the oppurtunity 
 to experience. And i've been doing this for a loooooooonnnnnnggg time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ramileous
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 20, 2005 5:35 am PT
Review:  If you are a fan of dungeons and dragons kind of games that give you options then this is the best 
 game going right now. This game blows away MMO's like Everquest simply because NWN allows for a 
 DM to create quests and interact with online players. This game is free to play online with others 
 and you can create your own servers and game worlds. 
  
  I started playing NWN in Summer 2002, It didnt take me long to get bored with the single player 
 mode despite my initial amazement at how solid and versatile it is. It wasnt until november of 
 2002 when some friends invited me to play online on one of the servers that I fell in love and 
 became addicted to the game. 
  Playing with others around the country, making endless kinds of characters. You often had DMs (also 
 players ) who would make the game more interesting and unpredictable. I was addicted while playing 
 on a server called Battledale with many others. I love to make stories and there was no shortage 
 when you put many creative players together in one superb game.
  
  As with all games they lose their luster over time, I finally stopped playing in early 2005 after 
 two years of play. I would play almost daily too it was that fun. If you are looking for a D&D 
 oriented online game then this is your best bet. I have tried EQII and even that pales in comparison 
 because it has no option for a DM . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cervantes_Soul
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 19, 2005 4:12 pm PT
Review:  If you've ever wanted to get into the DND universe, this is a godsend.
  
  I used to be a hater. I used to view DND nerds as a bunch of lifeless losers who lived in their 
 basement.
  
  Now I can see WHY they live in their basement.
  
  This game is by far one of the best RPGs ever made.
  
  This game is huge, with a built-in world 
 editor, long storyline, and endless character possibilities. The gameplay follows the complex DND 
 guidelines, though it has been simplified to a level noobies will understand. Hell, I had no idea 
 how DND worked before I played this game. I now understand the ways of the Dork Side.
  
  The world editor that comes with the game is any mod's dream. I'm no pro when it comes to making 
 mods, but I made some mods that I would have never dreamed of before. You can also edit gear and 
 items in this mode, so you can make that perfect-looking sexy Elven ranger I know you've always 
 wanted to.
  
  Graphics. Beautiful. Make sure you got a nice card though.
  
  Sound. Again, excellent.
  
  BUY this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mkiller27
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 14, 2005 9:40 pm PT
Review:  As my title to this little review states, there should be a warning label to this game. In all 
 of the RPGs that I have played this one has consumed me to the max. I would say that this game 
 is pure uncut digital crack at its finest. Look I know that the game is almost 3 years old, but 
 my computer is old and unfortunately I can't play any of the new cool games. I know that to todays 
 standards the graphics are old and outdated, but the story is out of this world and the npc interaction 
 is pristine. Look if you are like me stuck with an aging system and looking for a spectacular game, 
 and you are hard core for RPGs then this game is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: haadurin
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 18, 2006 7:38 am PT
Review:  This game's really wonderful! You simply have to buy it! The graphics aren't too hot sometimes, 
 but when you think about it, the game's not really meant for close ups! The textures for the ground 
 and walls are absolutely wonderful, and the sound is great too! I've been playing this game for 
 probably, oh, three years and I still haven't gotten tired of it! The gameplay's pretty fun, but 
 the campaigns have failed to 'hook' me and I just can't really get into them, and the henchman 
 menus are rather clunky and shoddy. This can be overlooked, however, because this is still a great 
 game. I can't wait for Neverwinter Nights 2.
  
  8.2/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: insomniac_7
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 11, 2005 6:34 pm PT
Review:  I'm really enjoying Neverwinter Nights. This is one of those very rare games that snags my attention 
 for more than a week. I've gotten so much into my characters that I've been playing them for the 
 past 3 weeks. That's nearly a record for me. Baldur's Gate 1 and 2 had their appeals but didn't 
 have me this addicted, same as Icewind Dale. The character creation and levelling is probably the 
 most faithful to the 3.5 rules. The only thing I disliked was the inability to have more than 3 
 classes for your character. Meaning no lvl 5 fighter/ 5 rogue/ 5 ranger/ 25 paladin or anything 
 convoluted like that.
  The world's robust. The editor amazingly flexible and accessible. I've personally tinkered with 
 my own scenario a bit over the past week. It's hard to dedicate to much time to it though, because 
 it means I'm not playing the game. 
  Anyway, the game is available with all the expansions at your local EB in the Diamond Package for 
 a bizarrely low price of 20$. Never have i gotten so much playtime out of a 20$ game and I'm nowhere 
 near done. Pick it up today and then start your salivating about NeverWinter Nights 2! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Levoth
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 7, 2006 12:34 pm PT
Review:  Neverwinter Nights is one of the best RPG's I've ever played. The first time I saw this game I 
 liked it , and Neverwinter Nights became my favorite game and RPG.
  Neverwinter Nights is a huge game. You'll spend about 100 hours playing it. The main campaign is 
 very good. You can do everything freely and solve quests the way you want. That's what is most 
 important, you can do everything you want to do. The story is very good too. The City of Neverwinter 
 was infected by a plague , and many people died. You start as an student in the Academy of Neverwinter, 
 but in the same day that you'll finish your training the Academy is attacked , and the cure for 
 the plague is stolen by someone. As the survivor of the slaughter you'll have to look for the cure 
 which is divided in four parts known as the Waterdhavian Creatures. This is just the prelude there 
 are far more to see in this history.
  
  Building your character is one the funiest things in this game. You can choose your character race, 
 portrait, packages of abilities and his/her class. Then you'll have to choose his/her type of hair, 
 color of hair, color of skin, tatoo, initial clothes and other things. The races of the game are 
 the same of D&D : you can play as an Elf , Human, Half-Elf , Half-Orc , Halfling and Dwarf. But 
 you can create your own race in the sub-race comand which allows you to create another race based 
 in one the races of the game. 
  All of your abilities and atributes can be customized by you. That's the most fun , because if 
 you are a hardcore player you can create the perfect character for your choosen class and this 
 is very interesting. The game offers a huge list of class for your character , there are barbarians, 
  and many others. You can multiclass the way you want 
 with all these class. But your character can only use three class, either classes or prestige class 
 they count as the same.
  
  The tecnical of this game are great too. Many people don't play the game just because it is inovative 
 and it is very fun , but because of its graphics or sounds. The graphics of this game, they were 
 very well done. You can see lights reflecting in a warrior armor or sword. All the lights are very 
 good, you can see the scenario itself is made by light, lights totally influency this game graphics. 
 One interesting thing is the shadows. There are shadows everywhere and they are perfect, with you 
 have a good video card you're going to see it. The water, the grass, snow effects everything is 
 so great that you won't believe in what you're seing. The game have many colors too and good textures 
 of course. It is amazing what graphics do. But I think that some people won't like it at the first 
 time because if you're about to compare Fable: Lost Chapters or Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion graphics 
 with Neverwinter Nights' , you're not going to like it , but as time passes you're going to see 
 that this graphics are quite impressive. But, in my opinion the weapons aren't very well designed. 
 I mean , their picture looks very good but the weapon itself doesn't have the same look as the 
 picture have. 
  The sounds are good , they don't show something innovative. The musics are boring sometimes, but 
 there are good ones in the most interesting places of the game. I think that's why those places 
 are the most interesting. In fact , the game doesn't have a theme, so that make it sucks a little. 
 But actually , the sound effects are very very good. It is wonderfull the characters screams , 
 and animals roaring and other stuff such as steps of the characters, the sound of sword clashing 
 , the heros screaming in battle and many other impressive sounds which makes it fun. The voices 
 are good too , but I think that there must have been much more voices 'cause there isn't many characters 
 with voices. That's a negative point 'cause in Dungeon Siege II evey character speaks and even 
 in Dungeon Siege almost everyone do it too. The gameplay is just the same gameplay of every PC 
 RPG. In fact, the gameplay here is very similar to Diablo's gameplay. I think the only difference 
 between then is the rotation of the game camera and the zoom. Battling is very easy , you just 
 click at your enemy and then you watch your char fightinning with him, I think that's the most 
 boring part 'cause you just watch your hero fightinning and you don't have to do anything else 
 , unless you're an wizard and want to cast a spell. The game have lots of hotkeys which you can 
 personalize and use it the way you want to use. If you're a magician , you'll probably have all 
 sorts of magic , so you can use these hotkeys which you created to cast spells faster. And this 
 hotkeys is also used for you to equip an weapon or armor faster , activate an ability , use an 
 item and many other things.
  
  The online gameplay is another feature that Neverwinter Nights should be very proud of. It is just 
 too much fun playing online with all of your friends exchanging items and abilities and knowledge 
 about the places ,or even playing the main campaign online. You'll find out this game online gameplay 
 has much to offer than an MMORPG itself, because you can use your character offline in the online 
 mode, so even if you don't have an DSL you can keep playing without being connected to the internet 
 and them after your upgrades you enter and play with all the kind of players in the world. That's 
 very fun.
  
  ::: VEREDICT ::: 
  
  Neverwinter Nights is very enjoyable game. If you are a fan of RPGs, you should play it. If you 
 play AD&D you'll be very proud of seen AD&D in an eletronic game. And even if you're not a fan 
 of RPGs , I know you'll like playing it 'cause it is very very fun. Highly recommended ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameReviewer711
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 5, 2005 12:51 pm PT
Review:  Always Gamer Nights
  Summoned, magic missled, frosted, and cursed by Justin Reed
  
  Welcome to this side of town boys and girls, it full of misfits, Orcs, dwarfs and Elves, with occasional 
 plague that is tearing down the insides of people in this town and the Lord has called for all 
 up coming heroes to save the day. The true PC gamers out there give me a Hail Neverwinter! Thats 
 right, the Dark Gamer has finally came around to make a review of a legendary PC game, thats right 
 Neverwinter Nights. From the makers of the first Star Wars: Knights of the old Republic, BioWare 
 made a game back in, I believe if my history is right, out in 2002. The game was an instant classic 
 among the RPG fans, the D&D fans and if they were drawn to it, GURPS (Generic Universal RolePlaying 
 System) fans. I had this in my old collection and since the release of the NWN 2 is on its way 
 hopefully soon, I thought to play the game again, and being a reviewer and having many PC gamer 
 fans I decided this review needed to be made to help down on their luck gamers.
  
  In the world of the Forgotten Realms, the town of Neverwinter has been infected by the plague that 
 seems to be causing the Lord of the town as well as many of the towns people real distress as 
 well as well their deaths of course. The Wailing Death has struck the town and Lord Nasher has 
 called on the aid of warriors of all kinds to stop the plague and to later on help the people behind 
 the plague. In this game, well its a usual RPG for the PC so the first thing you do is create 
 your character, which in itself is a task only you, the chosen man/woman can decide. Lucky you, 
 you get a huge fan fare praising you but when I entered Neverwinter, the priests sent me out of 
 the town and everyone charged at me when I refused to. You must select through the gender first, 
 then through races, which range from Dwarf, Elf, Gnome, to the Half races that are half one thing 
 then half Human and then you have the Basic race, Humans themselves. Then onto portrait, let people 
 in Neverwinter see what you think you look like. From a picture of an Elf crafting magic to the 
 silhouette if Satan himself the horns and everything. Once you get that done, you go onto the class 
 of person you are, classes that range from Barbarians and Bards to Wizards and other uses of Magic. 
 Is it time to give me stats? You ask, why yes it is, its all up to you what you want to be. 
 If anyone who has played other Bio Ware games this should be rather familiar territory for you. 
 After you got all that done, just customize what you look like as a character model, which in all 
 honesty doesnt need to be done unless you what to be bulky or skinny, with tattoos or change your 
 skin color, the clothes side of this has no real effect on you, unless you plan to sell them which 
 does seem to come in handy if you need cash. Now have you finished? *Gamers nod* Thats good, now 
 its time to become the hero of another tale from the FR and set the world free from evil until 
 the expansion pack becomes available for you.
  
  The game starts out simple enough, you wake up in the barracks of a training facility, and you 
 have trained ever since you have gotten in town and now are on the day you finalize your training. 
 Odd, in any adventure in the Realms you wake up on the day you finish training. Yea, think about 
 that! Depending on your class you finish the training with that set class after going through, 
 or if your like me, skipping through, the tutorials and getting right on through. To get passed 
 me sounding like a strategy guide I will get to my review portions of the game. The twists and 
 turns, a surprise enemy, well sort of, and interesting story line, the game left me involved with 
 it or many months, or I should say years since I continue to play it. The cut scenes are remarkable 
 and beautifully done. The Voice actors had some issues here and there, some of them scared me when 
 they were with some disgusting characters like a plague ridden hooker who asks for help, both the 
 way they described her in detail and how her voice sounded alone was able to make me question the 
 voice acting. Most others fit on par with their characters but became redundant when they were 
 used multiple times, but that is to be expected when they have a world of NPCs all around. To mention 
 one of the things Bio Ware abuses in most their games is in this one as well. Of course it would 
 have to be the ability to be evil or kind to people, but the only thing that influences the Dark 
 or Light sides of the Forc I mean of the game is through dialogue. All it influences, I think, 
 is just how people talk to you because when I was both good and evil the ending did not change 
 at all, it was all the same. The villains of the main story are thought out and well made, their 
 abilities and way they talk are true with the historical worlds setting. Every now and then though 
 one boss would be completely pointless because it was weak and had the weirdest threats, plus another 
 enemy within his base as a sub-boss was a hell of a lot stronger. I had a problem with the difficulty 
 level though, the enemies had overwhelmed me at times but as any RPG fan would say, it tests the 
 ability of our character. I preferred to take them on one at a time, and allow my summoned creature 
 and my henchman to attack while I sat back and became lazy. Dont judge me, I am who I am, a level 
 54 lazy wizard. Most gamers who play this game will love the fact that as you level up, you can 
 gain upgrades for them so that when you get in a situation when you need to use your powers, depending 
 on your level, they will be supped up and will be able to blast holes through your enemies, or 
 maybe crack their skulls but I know I personally loved to gain more power to my magic missile or 
 my fire ball so that I could eradicate the hordes of enemies coming my way just a little bit easier. 
 The game play was the norm in most RPGs but every now and then I got distracted when I was trying 
 to choose a weapon and armor to equip myself with while I was deciding if I should be good or bad 
 in dialogue with a person. The screen got cluttered a lot and sometimes when I tried to move when 
 the screen was empty the henchmen of mine or my familiar or some random people on the street would 
 get in my way and I would accidentally click on them and it entered a conversation. Even moving 
 was hard at times, the walls would get in the way when the camera moved or if I sat in a corner 
 getting into a chest, it was like the wall and the camera where trying to make love with me in 
 the middle. No joke! That aside the game environments were exceptionally gorgeous when it came 
 to open fields or hidden tombs, the audio and the ambience synced together perfectly. All in all 
 the game would please any hardcore RPG or PC gamer, even if youre just getting into PC games, 
 this is a must own.
  
  Now that you have braved the perils of Neverwinter and survived the plague there is only one thing 
 to do save the game, lay down and curl up in a ball because you will be seeing visions of dragons 
 and walking skeletons dancing in your head. The only way to stop them is to well get the expansion (s) 
 or sleep and then wake up to play your first person shooter favorite. Its now time for us to part 
 ways, my clan is calling me to the south, surprisingly they just got a shipment of legendary items 
 and we plan to use them to take over the country I mean help the country The world of online 
 gaming is calling and soon the reviews will be hitting that sector of gaming. To request any game 
 you would like, send the Gryffindor mail my way at gamereviewer711@yahoo. com and I shall head out 
 that way post haste to begin my new assignment. This has been the Dark Lord of Gaming signing off, 
 Hail the Horde!
  
  Rating: 9.3 out of 10
  Verdict: A must own to any PC or RPG fan, to any beginner in either side pick it up as well. It 
 has its faults but when the second one comes out they will be fixed most defiantly. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lassarina
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 4, 2005 1:28 pm PT
Review:  A city lies helpless before a virulent plague. Ancient demons rise to walk the lands. Farmers' 
 wives have been kidnapped by giants. The venerable defenders of justice, right, truth, and kittens 
 are powerless in the face of these trials. The solution? A first-level Dungeons and Dragons character!
 
  
  Thus begins the single-player campaign of Neverwinter Nights, Bioware's epic Dungeons and Dragons-based 
 PC RPG. You are a student at the Neverwinter Heroes' Academy, about to graduate from your long 
 and arduous training. A plague known as the Wailing Death has assaulted the city, killing thousands. 
 Reagents have been gathered to manufacture a cure, but they are stolen from right under the nose 
 of Lady Aribeth de Tylmarande, paladin of Tyr and protector of all things bright and fluffy. She's 
 too busy keeping peace in the city to hunt down the cure, so the task falls to you. Like many RPGs, 
 a young unknown shall set out to save the world.
  
  In many PC RPGs, especially those based around D&amp; D rules, you get plenty of choices for your 
 character type or class. Neverwinter Nights offers a wide variety of races, classes, and options. 
 If you buy and install the two expansion packs, Shadows of Undrentide and Hordes of the Underdark, 
 those options become even more numerous. You can either pick a pre-made package (if you just want 
 to leap in and get started) or you can build your character from scratch, picking everything from 
 her skills to her favoured weapons to the colour of her eyes. If you're familiar with Dungeons 
 and Dragons character creation, it's a piece of cake. If you're not, the game still makes it easy 
 to understand. Different classes have different strengths; you can build a warrior with massive 
 strength who cleaves things in half with swords/axes/bladed weapons of choice, or you can have 
 a swift, sneaky rogue, or perhaps a sorcerer. The game will also recommend statistics and skills, 
 which you can tweak to suit yourself instead of starting from scratch.
  
  It is worth noting that the game balance is occasionally somewhat skewed; much like in Dungeons 
 and Dragons, a warrior is vastly overpowered early on while a mage dies if the enemy looks twice, 
 but later in the game a mage can destroy whole groups of enemies with a single spell. The best 
 strategy is usually to get a balanced party, which is easier in multiplayer than single-player. 
 If you have never played a PC RPG before (which I hadn't) and you start with a magic-user (which 
 I did) , you're in for some serious pain and frustration as you get accustomed to the controls and 
 try to survive hordes of Weak Goblins. Once you get accustomed to the system, though, it becomes 
 easier. The game remains fairly difficult throughout, with enemies being rather well balanced against 
 your abilities. Time passes regularly in the game, shifting from day to night to day, and this 
 affects the duration of special skills and the abilities that you're able to use (some can only 
 be used a certain number of times per day, while others last a number of hours determined by a 
 formula.)
  
  At the beginning of the game, you'll go through several tutorials as you make your way through 
 the Academy's halls, teaching you combat, exploration, the management of your henchman (see below) 
 and the use of the game's many useful components such as the map and journal. These instructional 
 tutorials fade away after the prologue, the NPCs apparently having decided that you've learnt quite 
 enough and must now muddle through on your own.
  
  The non-playable characters (NPCs) are well fleshed-out, with personalities and goals of their 
 own. You can hire a henchman to complement your own skills (for example, you could hire the hulking 
 warrior to run ahead and be what is affectionately known as a meat-shield, or the rogue to disable 
 traps and open treasure chests.) Your own character's personality is quite up to you; most dialogue 
 boxes have between two and seven options that will affect how an NPC responds to you and, thus, 
 what you can get from them. This doesn't really affect the outcome of the game, but it does give 
 you a little more control over where you are and how you do things (i. e. do you persuade the NPC 
 to give up the shiny thing or just kill him and take it?)
  
  The plot in Neverwinter Nights is quite solid and unfolds slowly over a prologue and four "chapters." 
 This is easily an 80 hour game. Each chapter has four basic "tasks" that you must complete, and 
 then there are innumerable little sidequests that garner money, experience, shiny things, and access 
 to facilities to make magic items or other, similar things. I really enjoyed this process, although 
 from a certain point of view the endless grind of "sidequest, kill stuff, sidequest, kill stuff" 
 could get rather old. I did greatly enjoy the plot, though, and the actions of NPCs were entirely 
 believable. You don't get a free ride just because you're the hero; as you gain renown within the 
 city, people will react differently to you, which can be a lot of fun. NPCs will also react to 
 you based on your appearance, race, etc.
  
  The graphics are quite good, although very dark; if you're not carrying a torch or equipping an 
 item that provides light, you may have difficulty seeing from time to time. You can change the 
 level of the gore and splatter that results from your many battles, which allows you a nice range 
 of "barely any blood" to "incredibly realistic crimson sprays." There are all kinds of textures, 
 interesting corners, passageways, and other fun things to explore, with a 360-degree rotatable 
 camera and the ability to zoom in and out. If your computer's graphics card isn't quite up to par, 
 there's an option to scale the eye candy to suit your hardware.
  
  Sound is also excellent. The music doesn't have too much variation, but I didn't mind the repetition 
 as none of the pieces were particularly annoying. As you walk through towns, you hear random snippets 
 of conversation and occasional outbursts. Forests and caves are replete with odd noises and animal 
 sounds. The voice acting is good quality and believable. The sound quality is quite good overall.
 
  
  And that's just the single-player campaign. You can also play through the basic storyline online 
 through Bioware's servers (or, if you're playing with friends, one can run the server off his/her 
 own computer and make it a private game.)
  
  As vast and fun as the single-player campaign is (not to mention the multi-player option) , that's 
 not all there is to this game. Bioware included something called the Aurora Toolset. Think RPG 
 Maker, and you've got a fair idea. You have all the textures, enemies, and other components of 
 a game. You can make your own adventures. This is a lot of work (again, think of how much work 
 you put into a single map in RPG Maker games) , but regardless, it's a lot of fun to be able to 
 sit down and create your own adventures, which you can then offer up for download and anyone who 
 owns Neverwinter Nights can download and play them. I know people who have run entire Dungeons 
 and Dragons campaigns through the use of the Aurora Toolset. It's a really nice addition that just 
 rounds out a fabulous game.
  
  Overall, for all the struggle I put into it and the multitudinous oaths and rants I directed at 
 it when some enemy had laid waste to my sorceress, I really enjoyed this game. I would have considered 
 it well worth the money and the time even without the Aurora Toolset, which I find completely fascinating 
 and awesome. It's definitely worth the purchase, especially with the Diamond Set out that contains 
 both of the previously mentioned expansion packs as well as the recently released Kingmaker expansion, 
 made up of official modules released online by Bioware themselves.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mort2fire
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 3, 2005 12:28 pm PT
Review:  This game is truly the best game i played in a long time.
  
  Really high grapghics, Amazing sounds, and unique battles that kept you wanting more and more battles, 
 with really good challeges and side missions.
  
  This game had a good story line to it, with extra missions to take up, when speaking to other people.
 
  
  You could change your armour and fully customise the colour and design once you have learnt the 
 skill.
  
  The game offered you different skill methods, that one you choose 3 skills out of 20, you could 
 work on this and improve his/her powers.
  
  You can customise your characters face, body, male / female, and the clothes that they were.
 
  
  You earn cash and you can spend them on 
  weapons, armour / clothes.
  
  Skills, power potions, and food.
  
  I also loved the way you can add more Mods and features 
 to the game.
  The expansion packs also made this game the best ever.
  
  THIS IS A GAME YOU SHOULD PLAY, WEITHER OR NOT YOUR AN RPG PLAYER OR NOT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: greatatlantic
Rating: 6.3
Date: Nov 30, 2005 5:33 pm PT
Review:  The year is 2005, and Neverwinter Nights was released in 2002, so I'm writing this rather retroactively. 
 However, the continued support for this game and the relative small catalog of SP cRPGs means this 
 game is still relevant, for better or worse. Though its probably for worse.
  
  The game has received much praise for the Single Player campaign. Indeed, thats what cRPG fans 
 really want, a good campaign. The praise is misplaced, however, as Bioware simply does not deliver 
 on this account. The problems with their campaign are numerous. It starts out very well, with a 
 character creation screen with tons of options. You have around 20 classes to choose from, with 
 choices like Monk or Ranger, which can be further customized with attributes, skills, and feats. 
 Then, during play you can multi-class with ease allowing even further character customization. 
 Thats the sort of thing that makes RPG fans drool. Yet, its all a facade. There are exactly two 
 ways to play this game, fighter or mage (which is either wizard or sorcerer) . Any other class is 
 simply another variation on those two themes (often a weaker variation) , or isn't a way to play 
 the game. A barbarian is a stronger fighter with fewer feats. A bard is a sorcerer with wimpy spells. 
 You get the idea. There is an option to play the Rogue class, no DnD game could be complete with 
 out a rogue. But unless you like doing a lot of quick saving and quick loading and are extremely 
 patient, then you simply cannot beat, enjoy, or even play the game as a rogue.
  
  There are several reasons for this, and illuminating them brings to light just what Bioware screwed 
 up on. DnD is meant to be played with a balanced party, yet NWN only gives you direct control over 
 one character. Not one character at a time, but one character- the one you create at the beginning 
 of the game. Now, surely Bioware would let you include AI-controlled NPCs in your party to fill 
 the holes, right? Nope, you are allowed one henchman. Thats right, you play a DnD based game with 
 only two characters, one of which you have no control over. There are 6 possible henchmen to choose 
 from, each has their own back story and are available for hire for a small sum. Yet, its pretty 
 obvious what the best picks are. If you are a fighter, you want the cleric; if you are a mage, 
 you want the barbarian. In the first chapter some dungeons merit the rogue, but thats it. Spell 
 casters can also summon a familiar to be a third party member, and Rangers can use a skill to acquire 
 animal companions, but these do little to allievate the problem or party limitations.
  
  Bioware attempts to imitate the party interaction of their Baldur's Gate series with henchman quests. 
 Basically, every henchmen can give you a quest if you talk to them enough. Though, these quests 
 are always to bring them some item they need. They don't tell you the location of said item, just 
 that they need it. You can find these items by searching every nook and cranny of the game world, 
 and this game has a lot of nooks and crannies. Then, unless you did a henchman's quest in the first 
 chapter, you can't complete it in subsequent chapters due to limitations of the engine. Overall, 
 a pretty arbitrary feature to include.
  
  But I haven't yet told you about the game, have I? The story starts out in an hero training academy, 
 where students have flocked to since the king put out a call for heroes to help end the city's 
 plague problem. Why he didn't put out a call for doctors is beyond me. Anyways, parts from four 
 animals are necessary to concoct a cure for the plague, and they are stored in the academy until 
 their use. The academy is attacked the the animals all run away into the city. As the one of the 
 few surviving students, you must go and find the animals. Oddly enough, there are exactly four 
 parts of the city you can explore, guess what each section of the city contains? If you answered 
 exactly 1 part of the cure, you're right. You can end chapter one by brining all four parts back 
 to your supervisor, and you'll be thankful to finally get it over with. Unfortunately, every single 
 chapter follows the same formula: go collect the 3 or 4 gizmos from the 3 or 4 regions listed. 
 Once you got the gizmos you get the hear the next part of the story. The story won't keep anyone 
 on the edge of their seats though. Its the usual ancient evil returning from long slumber to enslave 
 humanity. There are plenty of side quests, but they are overwhelming fetch quests with the same 
 problems as the main quest.
  
  Yet, this is a 60 hour campaign, what are you doing for those hours, you might be wondering. The 
 short answer is combat, lots and lots of combat. The tool set Bioware created made it real easy 
 to build big dungeons and fill them with enemies. So, thats what they did. Hence, any attempt to 
 go from A to B outside a few hub areas inevitably involves fighting group after group of low level 
 enemies. Diablo fans might think there is nothing wrong with that, but this isn't Diablo. DnD combat 
 is traditionally turn based, but in order to accommodate the multiplayer portion of the game Bioware 
 uses something called Real Time with Pause. Basically, combat is animated in real time, but behind 
 the scenes the computer queues the players attacks into turns. Unless you tell your PC to something 
 else like cast a spell, he or she will just attack. So, its possible to win fights with out any 
 input on the part of the player, and that just stinks. The whole affair is like you're watching 
 it unfold as oppose to being a participant. Its a little better for mages, but not much. So there 
 you have it, a game overwhelmingly dominated by combat with out any fun to be had from combat.
 
  
  Furthermore, you have no incentive to avoid combat, since its where you get the majority of your 
 XP (coincidently, this is another reason you can't play rogue) . Quests give you some XP, but not 
 enough. Avoiding combat will make the end game extremely difficult due to your lower level. And 
 then there is the issue of loot. NWN is filled with chests, barrels, and corpses with random loot. 
 There are so many of these things, that the only way to balance the game was to keep the loot inside 
 of very small value. So in the first chapter you run around opening barrels just to get the 2 or 
 3 coins inside. Before that though, you have to open up your entire inventory management system, 
 just to get a few coins. Its ultimately worth your while to do so, since you can make a profit 
 in bulk. Also, some of these loot bins contain real loot, like +3 weapons or enchanted armor. Heck, 
 there are a ton of these enchanted weapons floating around, many of which sell for more than what 
 you get for completing quests. Its really is a bizarre set up that discourages subquesting.
  
  The single player campaign has plenty of other smaller flaws that make it such a flop, such 
 having zero ability to impact the story or a badly implemented good vs. evil axis. However, at 
 this point it would be beat a dead horse to go into them. The game does make it easy to assign 
 spells and special attacks to hot keys, and easy to find them with a radial menu. But whats the 
 point of a user friendly interface unless you have an incentive to play the game.
  
  Ironically, the game's redeeming features come not from Bioware but the people who bought their 
 poorly done campaign. Bioware shipped their game with a relatively user friendly tool kit. Many 
 mods have been made using this kit. Some of them are much more worth while then the Official Campaign. 
 Unfortunately, a lot of these require the game's two expansions to play. There is also a multiplayer 
 mode. Playing the official campaign with a buddy isn't any more fun then alone, but plenty of other 
 maps now exist that are fun with multiplayer. Of special interest is the Dungeon Master mode. This 
 allows for one player to be logged in as the PnP role of Dungeon Master. He or she can then alter 
 the game as they see fit to enhance the game play experience: giving players more experience, switching 
 the content of chests, etc. So, if you want a more social experience, Bioware can help you out 
 there. But, with out a solid single player campaign, this is a hard sell for cRPG fans to buy. 
 Unless it's in the bargain bin, I wouldn't bother. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skeieter123
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 24, 2005 10:42 pm PT
Review:  When I first started to play, i thought that it gonna be like all other games, but it was different. 
 When i got stucked in chapter 2, that time what i spent searching for thAat, it was so fun. I think 
 it probably best game i have ever played before. I preffer to driving games, but this was different. 
 I think that best of this game was that part with faiting and whole story was just amaizing. To 
 figure and made something like that up, you need a loooot of time. One thing what i little bit 
 didn't like was graphics. First they were pretty amazing, but after a while it started to get booring 
 and didn't made any fun anymore. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrusherOfThings
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 24, 2005 10:47 am PT
Review:  I love Neverwinter Nights. It's a great RPG, if you are into mods and custom modules. IMHO, the 
 campaigns that shipped with the game are rather, well, boring. I tried playing the original campaign, 
 and just lost interest because the game was too slow paced. Maybe I'm just spoiled by fast paced 
 games like Diablo 2, I don't know. 
  
  But this game has ten million times the content to offer than a game like Diablo 2. You can download 
 modules from other players, or better yet, make your own! If you can figure out Windows Paint, 
 you can figure out this tool set. lol. There is a lot of untapped power in this game engine and 
 its tool set.
  
  I must admit, that I was too young when Pen & Paper gaming was at its height in popularity, so 
 I never really had a chance to play AD&D, though I know what it is basically like. So, given that, 
 I understand the slower nature of the game, though I still like hacking my way through enemies 
 in Diablo 2. If you had a hack & slash RPG with a tool set this powerful, that would be a dream 
 come true (Titan Quest, perhaps? One can hope...) .
  
  But the true beauty of NWN is that the game doesn't have to be about combat. You can set up mazes, 
 puzzles, NPCs, shops, plots, custom made equipment. You can even fine tune it down to what a monster 
 or NPC has in their inventory to pick up when you kill them.
  
  Bascially, as long as you have the hard drive space, you can make whatever you want, as big as 
 you want.
  
  Throw in the fact that it has multiplayer and you can play online with your friends using your 
 custom made modules, and I think that makes this one of the better RPG's of all time. I know I'm 
 having a blast making my own campaigns.
  
  Definitely worth checking out. They have various packages, such as the Platinum edition, etc. that 
 come with the expansions to it, and they come fairly cheap, so you don't have a reason not to try 
 it! :)
  
  I'm HIGHLY looking forward to Neverwinter Nights 2 because of how good the first one is. You can't 
 go wrong. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swimmer33
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 30, 2005 11:55 am PT
Review:  Neverwinter Nights is a highly immersive RPG. You are thrown into the world of Neverwinter and 
 the Plague at the begining of the game. I was really immersed in the story line and wanted to keep 
 playing to find out what happened next. The game is based on Dungeons and Dragons rules, but you 
 don't have to know the D&D Rules to play. The computer does all the work for you while you attack 
 the bad guys and level up your character. The game allows you to hire henchmen to tag along. Choosing 
 the right henchman is essential to completing the game. The single player game is addictive and 
 the multiplayer is reason to keep playing even after you are finished with the single player game. 
 There are tons of mods and new stuff on the internet. 
  
  GAMEPLAY-10
  
  The game is easy to pick up, but then has much more depth. Battles are fun and quick. They don't 
 slow down the progression of the story. The camera angles are always great and you can see the 
 whole area you are in. Its easy to move around, talk to people, and attack enimies. Shops are easy 
 to navigate and you can sell and buy things with ease. Inventory management is no problem and you 
 have plenty of space. Your surroundings are easy to interact with and easy to navigate with the 
 in-game map. The game never slows down and the load times aren't very long on a decent computer. 
 The single player campaign takes about 40 hours and is very immersive. 
  
  GRAPHICS-8
  
  Probably the low point of the game. The specific weapons and armor look similar to the same 
 type. For example, a enchanted axe looks the same as a regular axe. The characters look believable, 
 but could be sharper. The environment looks good and is very realistic.
  
  SOUND-9
  
  The backround music is appropriate for the situation you are in. If you are in battle it is fast-paced 
 and exciting. If you are just walking around then the music is peacful and quiet. The ambient sound, 
 such as birds chirping adds alot to the environment. The sound complements the situation. 
  
  VALUE-10
  
  You can buy the game and its two expansions (100 hours of gameplay) for under 
 $50. There is much more to be had online too. It is a great deal.
  
  TILT-10
  
  I love this game and I think any RPG fan should buy it today. 
  
  The game is great. If you 
 like RPGs you should get this bargian. Its one of the best out there. There is great singleplayer 
 along with plenty of things to do online after you finish the single player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leonard28
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 30, 2005 5:09 am PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  The gameplay is amazing. It takes some time to get into it but once your there it's really worth 
 it. The first chapter is good fun but after that the game really becomes highly addictive. Anyone 
 who has ever played Baldur's Gate will feel at home instantly.
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics are great but not short of a few mistakes. Some parts of the game have clipping problems. The 
 never ending dungeons start being boring after some time but the woods are great. The effects are 
 top of the line.
  
  Sound:
  The sound is good but there is not much variation. The sound effects are great. The voices are 
 also good but sometimes a little overdone.
  
  Value:
  The game itself takes enough time to finish but the true value layes with the community. All the 
 mods and levels that are available add greatly to the value. Bio ware even made some modules with 
 professionals, there are great but the do cost money.
  
  Conclusion:
  Buy this game, it's great!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: habsfan_33
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 21, 2005 7:10 am PT
Review:  This is the best PC RPG game I have played to date. The story is well written and the action is 
 intense. I like the idea of one henchmen over large parties (as seen in previous games) . There 
 are enough side quests and story play to keep you busy for 100+ hours. 
  
  I was impressed with the graphics and seemless they flowed on my computer screen. The game has 
 very few bugs (that I've seen) and it has yet to crash on me. 
  
  The only negative I've seen is with saved games. Very rarely, a saved game would not reload properly 
 and I made sure I saved a game twice before closing up my play for the day to ensure that one of 
 the two saves would load.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Encimedes
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 14, 2005 9:02 am PT
Review:  NWN is a great game based on D&D. Any player of D&D will reconize the use of the rules here (that 
 were transalted greatly) . The tilt is easy to get and takes a few min. to use to. The gameplay 
 s awaesom, especialy in the combat. The storyline is very intresting too. The sound is fun to hear 
 and sometimes you probaly gonna sing it to yourself. The graphics are overole
  good and it's nice to see your charecter wearing cool gear.
  But the game most great point is 
 his muliplayer. You can play with your friends and get into exiting and fun roleplay servers. You 
 can even creat your own adventure!
  But still, there are problems. The sound is sometimes funny when you attack a chest or a box and 
 you hear a great battle music and your character calls: "Let the earth take you!", though it's 
 just a chest!
  The most bad aspects of the game is it's loading screens and the game is very lemeted. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robg3176
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 14, 2005 5:31 am PT
Review:  Despite all the bugs, the length of the game, and the difficulty of learning D&D rules... I really 
 enjoyed the depth and character of the game. Immersive, and grows on you. Tons of options, and 
 lots of land and plots to explore. A thumbs up hands down. It has a great combination of spells 
 and hack and slash. And the spell effects are the best i've seen thus far. I've spent more than 
 a few hundred hours on this game, as well as the expansion packs. I fell as I'm a real person in 
 the Neverwinter world with the ability to explore, speak to many NPC's and kill them if I choose. 
 One of my all time favorites, if not my favorite. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nawras
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 13, 2005 12:59 am PT
Review:  | Story
  
  As with every single RPG ever created, you start off in a very peaceful environment which is soon 
 to be otherwise. This time you start at the Academy where you get trained according to your class 
 (more on that later) and then you are off to see the great Lady Aribeth. She's a Holy Paladin, 
 and quite a looker too, you'll immedietly fall in love with her and her sense of justice. Of course, 
 you get attacked by a group of cultists and then everything goes wrong. You are told about the 
 Wailing Death, a plague that has overcome Neverwinter, and that the four beasts that escaped during 
 the attack on the academy were the cure for the disease. Finding those beasts of course is only 
 a very, very tiny part of the grand plot against Neverwinter, and the story only ever increases 
 in intensity, with a huge amount of surprises and very sad betrayals and deaths. In fact the story 
 is a little bit over-dramatic and exhausting, and the ever-persistent grim atmosphere really doesn't 
 help brighten things up. But you'll get used to being grumpy.
  Although the story is A-Class, you would be disappointed at the easiness of the last climatic battles. 
 Or maybe that was because I was a Paladin. But still, there were many enemies much more difficult 
 in the final areas, like the Guardian Dragons, who were truly overpowering compared to the rather 
 flimsy final battles. Yet still, perhaps it was me being a Paladin.
  
  | Gameplay
  
  The gameplay system follows the third addition of Dungeons & Dragons. For the casual player, it 
 is all nonesense, and perhaps too overwhelmingly complex to even care about. For the hardcore, 
 it is best described as an ongoing orgasm. Where-ever you fall into the gamer-type spectrum, you 
 are sure to find something charming about NWN.
  For the casual gamer, you start off by creating a character from scratch, almost. You get to choose 
 the gender and the race and the class, with a predefined package, and you're all set to go. Pretty 
 simple and doesn't take more than a minute. For the hardcore it is a different story. Choose the 
 gender, and then you get to choose between one of five races or even create your own race. Each 
 race, of course, has its own unique attributes and abilities, as well as a favorite class (later 
 on that) . Typically, humans are your way to go as they're the jacks of all trades. However they 
 are the master of none, so if you want to experience a slice of everything you may want to go with 
 a human. Otherwise, you get to choose an Elf, a Half-Elf, an Orc, a Half-Orc, a Halfling, or create 
 a race of your own. Each class get their own special treatment, for instance, Elves get immunity 
 against paralysis and a bonus to some stats. You also get the Wizard to be the favorite class, 
 which is crucial if you want to multi-class.
  Speaking of classes, once you get your race decided you are off to literally decide your fate in 
 the game. The huge variety of classes and their unique abilities is very overwhelming, and you 
 definately would want to read the Manual to get a glimpse of the abilities provided by the higher 
 levels of each class, since playing half an hour as a trial per class won't do justice plus it 
 would seem nonsensical. As for the classes themselves, you get everything from Bards to Druids 
 to Paladins to Wizards and Sorcerers. They all have abilities and spells unique to them, and some 
 of them are shared. However, Paladins get to use all sorts of armor and weapons while Druids cannot 
 for instance. However, Druids get to talk to animals - major advantage for finding information. 
 You can even tame wild beasts with a Druid. But Bards can charm everyone with their poetry and 
 their supportive magic is unprecedented - except for the Clerics whose healing and death spells 
 surpass everyone else. 
  Choosing a class not only affects your whole game, but also how you multi-class if you want. Every 
 time you level up, you can choose either to continue with the same class or go to a new class. 
 This multiclassing can give you some advantage by combining elements from different classes but 
 it has two drawbacks. The first drawback is the once you opt to multiclass you cannot reach the 
 full potential of any particular class. Second, if your main class is not the favorite of your 
 race, you get penalized for multiclassing by having some of your stats reduced if the level offset 
 between the primary and secondary classes exceeds one level. For example, an Elf with a primary 
 of level 6 Bard and a secondary of a level 3 Sorcerer will suffer the penalty. If the Elf was originally 
 a Wizard the penalty is ignored.
  After all that you also have to choose an alignment. There are 9 of them, Lawful, Nueutral, Chaotic, 
 with their subdivision rangind from Evil to Good. Some classes are restricted to certain alignments. 
 Druids can only be in the Neutral range while Paladins can strictly be Lawful Good. Shifting in 
 those alignments is affected by your actions and treatments and a radical shift may halt you from 
 proceeding through a particular class altogether.
  Complex eh?
  Still more.
  Your character has an inventory - basically an invisible chest you carry around. It is divided 
 into tabs so you can sort items at your leisure or just stuff everything you can in it. But of 
 course, you are limited in space. And not only that, you are limited by weight too. Each item has 
 a weight, except gems and miscellaneous and plot items which have a weight of 0 or something very 
 negligible. Carrying an overweight halts your ability to run (you can only walk) as well as some 
 punishment on your dexterity. However, the developers are kind enough to have some magical items 
 (magic bags) which allow you to store items more than your maximum slots as well as with a reduced 
 weights, anything from 20% to 100%. Some belts and armor you equip affect the weight loss but won't 
 allow you to carry more items.
  There is quite a variety of weapons of all types and spells of all types, all applicable to particular 
 classes. You also get rare exotic weapons - but you must have the feat selected at a level up in 
 order to be able to equip them. Some other non-exotic weapons are still unique if you have them 
 forged or steal them from the corpses of bosses and key enemy characters. You can sell them for 
 astronomical prices if you wish or can't equip them - or wait a little more to reforge them and 
 sell them for an even higher price.
  The game itself is actually difficult, so you may want to hire an assistant. You get to choose 
 from a variety, all of them different classes of course, so it would be wise to choose one to compliment 
 your class (like a Fighter may want a Cleric assistant) . You can issue them some commands but usually 
 they do everything on their own and they do it quite well - although sometimes your Cleric would 
 just sit there and won't heal you even though you give him/her a direct command. You can always 
 increase or decrease the difficulty settings anytime during the game. For good measure though, 
 you can chat with your assistants anytime you get bored and they reveal about their past. Some 
 of them are very serious dramas, however you would want to take someone really funny to have a 
 good laugh while resting in a cleared room.
  The gameplay is just too complex to describe in detail, but just as a last thought, you can restore 
 your health and your "mana" (mana is actually how many times you can cast a spell, not how much 
 it costs to cast) by simply "sleeping". Yup, you need to be in a safe room or away from monsters 
 in order to sleep. It is a very interesting and useful innovation - certainly better then teleporting 
 back to town and resting at an inn. It is more convenient to just sleep where you are.
  
  | Overall
  
  A great, stunning game, with sharp graphics and music, and a solid story line 
 and an immense gameplay atmosphere, if you haven't picked this game up you better do so now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tsmone
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 12, 2005 9:41 pm PT
Review:  Neverwinter Nights has survived the test of time. Even today the game has a place, its a classic. 
 
  The game is basically a roleplaying game with some hack'n'slash. With a good storyline and an impressive 
 amount of content. Right from the beginning intro the music grips you. NWN emulates Dungeons and 
 Dragons 3rd Edition rules. They do a decent job of translating the rules into a game that is faster 
 paced then playing on paper. The game play is rather simple, click and move interface. You have 
 a hotbar you can place items and skills in, too hotkey them. The user interface is very effective 
 for the game. Nothing too flashy, simple, effective and easy to use. Combat can be slow at times. 
 Waiting a few seconds for a combat "round" to be finished. The combat overall is nothing to special 
 to watch. Simple animations with a few parries and dodges. Changing the options and increasing 
 the violence to special can be a treat. Watching enemies explode into a pile of goo and bones. 
 
  Treasure is hidden in locked containers or loot bags from dead enemies. Ranging from chests to 
 barrels. It can be annoying to open dozens of containers though. Some containers, doors and floors 
 can be trapped. Traps can kill you! With the right skills you can disarm them, or even just spring 
 them and take the damage. Locked chests and doors can be broken open. 
  There are hundreds of magical items present in the game. The combinations are endless. 
  Spells 
 have cool effects and the character chants. There seems to only be a few different chants but its 
 cool to know a spellcaster when they start waving their hands and chanting. Its time to run! Those 
 fireballs are nasty. 
  The game play also tries to remain fast paced by allowing to rest pretty much anywhere thats safe. 
 A few seconds later your all healed up and spells are good to go. There are also ways to teleport 
 via item to get back to town quicker. 
  The graphics still look good even though the game is a few years old. The textures are easy to 
 see. Animations are a bit redundant at times. Combat animations lack allot of life but it doesn't 
 take away from the overall appeal of the game. I did find it annoying to find a nice cloak put 
 it on and see nothing on my avatar. Weapons can have effects and will show them. Such as a sword 
 that has flames on it. 
  I love the sound and music in the game. The ambiant sound of being in a dark place of unspeakable 
 evil. Or being in a peaceful forest at night. Creatures will make noises, NPC's will talk and call 
 battle cries. You can even press voice keys to give your henchman a command and the avatar speaks. 
 
  The game really makes it feel like your focusing on your character. While you gain a henchmen you 
 cannot completely control them. Until later expansions, its improved slightly. You can converse 
 with the henchmen to give them basic commands of what you want them to do. Also on the radial bars 
 you can call out commands. I simply learned which keys to press, "V""E""E" Follow me! Henchmen 
 listen fairly well and do manage to stay alive for the most part. 
  The best part of this game hands down is the toolset. You can custom make your own modules and 
 adventures. You can download other users modules as well. Bioware offers demos and premium modules 
 to download too. You want to make a level 15 Wizard and fight a horde of goblins? then enter a 
 dark cave and fight a dragon? You can do it! With the DM client you can even run your own server 
 and game. The internet has a huge following to NWN and numerous online servers exsist. 
  I love Neverwinter Nights. Simply put its my favorite game ever made. I can make my own custom 
 adventures, play other peoples, its one of the few games that truly can be endless. With Neverwinter 
 Nights 2 coming soon you owe it to yourself to try out the original. If you like treasure, adventure, 
 roleplaying, if you want to join hundreds of players online, make your own modules, if you like 
 Dungeons and Dragons you need to try NWN. Don't forget its expansions as well =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ellrodt49
Rating: 7.9
Date: Sep 5, 2005 4:29 am PT
Review:  Simply put, this is a good game. Not the best I've ever played, but a good game nonetheless.
  
  The developers packed a lot of adventuring into the official NWN campaign game - almost too 
 much. As I neared the end, I found myself almost starting to wish it would soon be over. Not that 
 the game is not interesting - for my taste, it's just a wee bit long, and the limited tilesets 
 don't allow enough diversity of environments along the way.
  
  But, overall, the game certainly held my interest. The game is quite linear, but there's nothing 
 wrong with that. In fact, I like my games to have some sense of ending or closure. After all, it's 
 just a game, and at some point there has to be an end (after all, there are so many other games 
 to play and so little time!) . I don't mind a little non-linearity, but I do like my games to have 
 a definite objective and a logical, fun path to get to that objective without spending precious 
 gaming hours out collecting obscure herbs for alchemy or running endless "go get this and bring 
 it back to me and I'll give you a reward" quests. I liked the main storyline of NWN, and the linearity 
 allowed me to move steadily forward into the story while having a lot of fun along the way.
  
  For me, the biggest negative in this game was the limited tilesets. The dungeons, forests, 
 caves etc. begin to look very much the same very quickly. Same tilesets, just arranged in different 
 layouts. Of course, there are other environmental "looks" available for the NWN world thanks to 
 the construction set and the many user mods, but as far as the official NWN campaign goes, the 
 game could certainly have benefited from more variety in the environments.
  
  The developers did a nice job with the quests along the way to the main objective. Great variety 
 and good use of ingenuity at times (e. g., I was delighted with the world within the snow-globe 
 and the intrigue surrounding that world) . They made this a game that holds your interest and they 
 deserve kudos for good work with the game design and storyline.
  
  The game plays smoothly and is quite stable. I don't remember any significant bugs, and I played 
 through to the end with only one crash that I can recall.
  
  In summary, this is a nice game. It is single player (though you can choose a companion from several 
 fairly interesting henchmen at times) , it is linear (a plus for some like myself, a negative for 
 others) , it gives you good bang for your gaming buck. Though it is a bit long for a linear game 
 (in my humble view) , and though it definitely suffers from far too much similarity of environments, 
 it nevertheless holds your interest to the end. And the construction set and huge and active modding 
 community make this a gaming world you could almost play forever if you so desired.
  
  NWN is a worthy addition to the gaming library of any CRPG fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CraigH123
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 24, 2005 10:45 pm PT
Review:  Wow, just wow. This game was amazing when I bought it when it first came out and it is still probably 
 the best RPG I've ever played even now, 3 years later. I've never played pen and paper D&D but 
 I've learned a lot about it from this game and love how it was done. From what I've seen in the 
 game compared to the D&D handbooks, it does do things a bit differently, but in my opinion it's 
 better than what I would imagine in actual D&D. 
  
  I'll start with the graphics. They are pretty amazing for 2002, although it's obvious that the 
 characters and high detail items aren't as smooth as you might like to see on PC. It's true though 
 that when you make a game you want to be able to reach the largest consumer base as possible and 
 really good graphics that need better hardware reduces the amount of people you can sell the game 
 to, and given everything this game can do I would overlook its shortcomings graphically. However, 
 you would think that they would be able to have better options for having better graphics for those 
 with the power to do so. I've played the game at great length with the lowest settings which seemed 
 acceptable, but I was disappointed at how ratcheting up the settings didn't yield a lot more impressive 
 graphics than they did.
  
  Now to the sound. The soundtrack was really good and the battle music is quite good as well. There 
 is plenty of variety in the music as well and though I've played the game probably 300+ hours I 
 still haven't gotten tired of the music and that's really good in my opinion. They don't overdo 
 the music and that's important when you have a game with such replayability.
  
  Regarding the value - it is very high and 10 doesn't even do it justice in my opinion because the 
 replayabilty on this game is just so high. The single player campaign is quite long but not too 
 long. But because of the ability for owners of the game to make their own campaigns, which they 
 have done in great numbers, with a lot of good content, the replayability is so great that you 
 can play probably 1000 hours if you downloaded enough modules and still have unique experiences 
 all the way. Not only can you make your own campaigns like many other games allow you to do you 
 can basically do a lot of detailed programming level decisions about how the campaign is played 
 out, and you can make your own models of anything! You can make new enemies, new items, and new 
 commands.
  
  Finally the gameplay is just specatular. Before Neverwinter Nights, I considered Baldur's Gate 
 2 was the greatest RPG, but Neverwinter Nights (made by the same people) took it to another level, 
 specifically 3D, and with epic scope. The storyline of the campaign is one of the best stories, 
 if not the best I've seen in an RPG to this day. There is a lot of interactivity between your character 
 and the environments in the game. There is also great artwork in the game, as there was in the 
 Baldur's Gate and Icewind Dale series. The way the spells are done are really nice, with the incantation 
 sounds as well as the actions and effects act. Everything regarding the gameplay is in my opinion 
 is near perfection only to be outdone by the most recent expasion, hordes of the Underdark. That's 
 not to say there aren't many things that shouldn't be added in Neverwinter Nights 2, but most of 
 the suggestions I've seen for the next games only want expand what you can ( y axis, horseback 
 riding, more quickslots and command options) rather than fixing a broken system (in my opinion 
 one clear exception to that is a way to sort your backpack at least in some way, but I would like 
 to see it specific - a place for different types of items and a way to automatically maximize weight 
 saving bags) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Link_the_one
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 11, 2005 10:11 pm PT
Review:  Judging by the lateness of my review as compared to other peoples, you'll realise that I have only 
 really just played this. So a predicament has occured. Do I judge it by todays standards or of 
 2 years ago? I'll go with today.
  
  Firstly gameplay. This is undeniably a 10. I'll be the first to admit, I still do not fully understand 
 all of Dungeons & Dragons rules, but to play NWN, you need never have heard of D&D before. The 
 story is great. Pretty original too, but obviously with all fantasy games, it's not going to be 
 unique. 
  You start as a student of Neverwinter's academy to try and find a cure for a plague for the city. 
 This is the first of 4 chapters. Since I'd never played a game like it before, it took me a whopping 
 25 hours to complete one chapter! This is GOOD news! 
  With so many twists and turns in the story, the game needs to play well. And it does. Weapons, 
 magic, armour, shape shifting, companions - it's all there. 
  However, a possible downpoint, which becomes noticeable as you go through the game, is the loading 
 times between each screen. For each new building you enter, or area you need to go into, the soon 
 familiar loading screen does slow you down.
  
  As with all RPG's, you train your hero by fighting monsters. The first time I played, I just progressed 
 as a fighter, which got me so far, but I had to have the difficulty on Normal. Try magic is my 
 advise - to see your creature glow is worth it just for that.
  
  That leads us onto graphics. You can play the game using many different camera angles - I used 
 the traditional top down approach. As in Dungeon Keeper, you can zoom in and out seamlessly and 
 from a zoomed out perspective the graphics look quite nice even by todays standards. Zoomed in 
 however, and especially in 3rd person perspective, the graphics become blocky and fuzzy. 
  
  Sound is both great and ok. The voice acting is fantastic. Literally some of the best I've 
 heard - you feel the characters have emotions, not just putting on a show. The lady who plays Aribeth 
 - she needs a medal and I'd like to meet her to shake her hand. The passion she puts in after.... 
 better not say, could spoil the plot.
  The sound affects though, leave a bit to be desired. It wasn't noticeable in the first chapter, 
 as you were inside a lot of the time, opening drawers for loot etc, but as you progress, you hear 
 the same sound when you open a drawer as you do when you open a sack. Hmmm.
  
  Multiplayer wise, this game doesn't scimp on either. You can do the whole game as a team over a 
 LAN or the internet. I met a great girl on there who had a hero so powerful, it took me two months 
 to get my character to get from a Easy challenge rating to her, to a Moderate rating! Sadly I've 
 lost contact with her, but the people on there look after new people to the game (even if it has 
 been out a number of years.) 
  
  I bought this on a 3 for 2 offer, and computer game wise, it was the best choice I have EVER made. 
 The fun it gave me lasted near 100 hours and although I reckon I've seen most parts, I bet there 
 are still more I haven't discovered. The replay value too, is insane. With the amount of character 
 options to choose from, I doubt no one could discover them all. And with two fantastic expansion 
 packs to get, the story, the adventure and ultimately the fun continues. And of course once you've 
 done the single player campaign, you can go and investigate other modules created by the NWN community. 
 And remember, I reviewed it using todays standards.
  I can guarantee, as long as you like Fantasy adventure, and for the most part even if you don't, 
 you WON'T be disappointed with this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Concordia44
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 11, 2005 4:28 pm PT
Review:  Just began playing since I recently updated my computer. So far, this is the best RPG I've played. 
 With the adapted 3.0 D&D rules, this game is what comes closest to tabletop D&D. Highly addictive, 
 I can't wait to get back home and play just one more hour, then one more, then one more...
  
  The game is chal; lenging, yet it leaves you the possibility of reelly learning the bits and 
 pieces to make sure you play it right and it's still fun, not overpowering you with foes you can't 
 beat. Right-clicking to know the degree of challenge of a foe is great ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: randar23rhenn
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 30, 2005 12:07 am PT
Review:  Neverwinter Nights is a truly awesome Role Playing game that is really a must have for any RPG 
 fan. 
  
  Gameplay: 
  You start off the game by choosing your character's class and customizing them as you see fit. 
 From here you are thrown into Neverwinter, a city of immense scale.
  
  Neverwinter Nights has the same traditional battle system as just about every other Western RPG, 
 that is, it is based of the Dungeons and Dragons system. The battles are played out based on stats 
 and modifiers you get as you earn feats (read- skills) , and other bonuses you get added by weapons 
 and armor. It is all based on dice rolling, although none of this really shows on screen. If you 
 have played the more recent KOTOR you basically know how this battle system works.
  
  What makes the game great though, isn't the battle system, it is the adventure. The storyline basically 
 has you trying to figure out the puzzle behind a mysterious plague that has infected the city of 
 Neverwinter. In fact, the vast majority of the game is spent in this city, which at first seems 
 limiting. However, once you discover the sheer scale of Neverwinter, you discover that this is 
 game that will easily take at least 30-40 hours to beat the single player, along with tons of hours 
 to spend online.
  
  The storyline is truly in depth and has several twists that are really surprising, it is the storyline 
 that really kept me playing, as the battle system is of a fairly traditional nature.
  
  Online allows you to hone your skills further on modules (read: campaigns) created by other players 
 online. Many of these are of epic scope in their own right as they can last for literally dozens 
 of hours. Online play also allows you to fight other players (although sadly most people online 
 have discovered how to hack, and are simply invincible) . 
  
  The major fault of the gameplay is the fact that it stays so close to the roots of its battle system. 
 Had it had more variations in its system like more recent games do it would have been much more 
 enjoyable.
  
  Graphics: Graphically for its time Neverwinter Nights was pretty darned good, but now it's looking 
 more aged than before. For its time however, the graphics were great, and are scored accordingly. 
 It was really a pleasure running through grass for the first time and watching it part as you ran. 
 Other graphical pleasures include seeing your weapons and armor change, as your character can look 
 completely different by the end of the game.
  
  Sound: The music for Neverwinter Nights is really incredible, one of the better soundtracks of 
 any PC game to date. That said, the attack noises and voices are also very well done.
  
  Value: With extended online play, and a very good single player quest, the value of Neverwinter 
 Nights, which you can now buy with both expansions for around $20, is superb.
  
  Tilt: Neverwinter Nights is a great RPG with a few shortcomings that keep it from being the best. 
 It is certainly a must have for fans of the genre, and it might bring new players into the fold 
 as well. I highly recommend it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: demonoid42
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 25, 2005 3:33 am PT
Review:  This game can only be truely appriciated with both expansions, though on it's own the original 
 Neverwinter Nights is a solid game. Providing a good 40 hours of play for the original campaign 
 and another 15 and 25 with the expansions, NWN has enough to keep you entertained for your money -- however 
 much you actually spend on it. The graphics are above-par for what you'd expect for a D&D RPG, 
 and the sound is about right, if not a little repetitive. The music, however, is excellent. D&D 
 gameplay will always earn a high score if done right, as it is here, and the rest is academic. 
 Even to date, this game is a solid 9 WITH THE EXPANSIONS, the base itself would only garner an 
 8 or so. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xts3
Rating: 5.8
Date: May 24, 2005 7:32 pm PT
Review:  Let's get one thing straight NWN doesn't have much in the way of anything, its like one big polished 
 turd. The story and graphics are bad for the most part which some great stuff here and there, but 
 mostly its terrible. The bland and repetitive graphics will really grate on your nerves.
  
  The story is absolutely horrible and forgettable for a bioware game, its is markedly amateurish 
 in every way.
  
  The control over your character is focused down to one character and lacking in interactivity. 
 The interactivity and fun is non-existent in this game. It's a game you watch rather then play, 
 you will be bored to tears in this navigating simulation where all you do is walk or run along 
 without anything eventful to do or to even interact with because your skills are so lacking. 
 
  
  In Neverwinter nights you can't control your characters hardly at all, nor your henchmen to any 
 degree, the best you can do with henchmen is set their AI routines and there is no depth of action. 
 You click icons from a skill menu (once you get skills when you gain levels) that change the die 
 roles of damage if you're a melee class, with no special animations or anything. Your character 
 doesn't animate his special moves when he attacks, how dumb and lacking in interactivity is that?
 
  
  This game is worthless unless you are a hardcore RPG fan that likes MMO's very slow, I'm watching 
 the grass grow, type action and really poor paced game play and story.
  
  The only pro's about NWN are its game editor, multiplayer component and the user modules you can 
 download. And even these, while great ideas and well implemented mean nothing because the game 
 is so mediocre in and of itself. You really get the feeling that this game was very unfinished 
 when it was released and it needed at least another two years of work to get right. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paula465
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 27, 2005 12:41 pm PT
Review:  I admit it, I'm not big into FPS or role-playing games. That being said, I really had a lot of 
 fun playing this game and intend to continue playing using different characters.
  
  I didn't manage to defeat Morag in the end, but up to that point I was able to continue through 
 the game. Part of my problem is learning to understand the classes and how to develop a character 
 with the strengths needed to go all the way to the end. I realize this is probably an easier task 
 for those who play these types of games frequently, but for me (and maybe for anyone who isn't 
 familiar with this genre) it will probably take a long time before I understand all the nuances 
 to selecting a particular class or even the advantages of cross-classing. I do have the manual 
 that came with the game, but it doesn't answer all the questions I have. To be fair, it would need 
 to be the size of all three LOTR volumes to answer all the questions I have, but it does contain 
 enough information to allow even a newbie like me to get started and have success in the game.
 
  
  What keeps me interested is the fact that I was able to learn enough to increase my skills and 
 level up and almost make it to the end. Most games I have attempted in the past left me frustrated 
 and bored which led me to abandon them long before I had any interest in learning more about how 
 to play the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FireBot
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 8, 2005 12:03 am PT
Review:  The game play is what makes this game great. There is an extensive campaign mode that just keeps 
 getting better and better as the story progresses. The story it follows is you are the hero that 
 is trying to help the 'queen' find a cure for the disease that is plaguing the city of Neverwinter. 
 I don't want go into any more detail then that, because I don't want to ruin the story. Let me 
 tell you that from what I have seen the story line is amazing! Neverwinter Nights also has a Multiplayer 
 mode that lets you play over the internet on a server someone made on a quest that they made as 
 well. I think that this is the coolest feature because it allows you to interact with actual humans 
 so it is a lot easier to form a technical battle plan where as if it is an AI partner you can only 
 give them simple commands like 'Stand Your Ground' and 'Guard Me'. But with a human obviously the 
 possibilities are endless! Another thing is at the beginning of a campaign mode, or when you first 
 go to a server online you need to make a new character. To do this you get many options. You get 
 to choose the gender, race, portrait, class, alignment, abilities, and look/name/age of your character. 
 In addition to choosing all of that you also get to chose if your character starts with any objects 
 (weapons, armor, etc.) . With all these options your character can be exactly how you want him or 
 her to be. Just another reason why this game is so great! 
  
  Another thing this game has that I am going to kind of put in with the game play is the 'Toolset' 
 which has all the stuff you need to make your own quests, dungeons, etc. This is another really 
 neat feature because it lets creative people try their hand at creating a quest of their own. I 
 guess it is a little challenging because there is a lot of stuff to do, and it takes along time 
 to learn how to do it all. But once you get the hang of it, it is awesome to make your own stuff, 
 and then put it out on t internet so other people can play on it! 
  
  The graphics on this game are unbelievable, even if you have the quality turned down all the way 
 they are still pretty good, but with the quality turned all the way up these graphics shine. It 
 shows you that they put a lot of work into how the game looks, to make it just right. The buildings 
 and scenery are very cool, the buildings look like something you might actually see in real life, 
 and the scenery, whether it be something that is real like trees, and walls, or something that 
 is not real like a mysterious beam of blue light, it looks real. The monster models are amazing 
 as well, each monster looks as if it was worked on from something so small as how it's fingers 
 look (if it has any) to something as big as what color it's skin (or whatever it has) is. The item 
 models are also very cool, the armor, weapons, scrolls, etc all look like what they should, and 
 had a lot of time put into them. 
  
  The sound on this game is awesome as well. Your character will shout things when he or she runs 
 into a fight, and they will say something when they cast spells. This adds a ton to the feel of 
 the game, and plus you get to customize how your character sounds so it makes it feel more real. 
 There are also other sounds like birds, creaking trees, and the like. Those add to the atmosphere 
 of the game. It also helps you get an idea of your surroundings. Also some of the people you will 
 talk to actually talk with words, so you don't always have to read a ton of text! 
  
  Overall this is a must-have for RPG lovers, and something that you might want to try even if RPG's 
 aren't your thing. I know I wasn't too much into RPG's, but this is one of my favorite games now! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcahill92129
Rating: 6.4
Date: Feb 25, 2005 4:01 pm PT
Review:  i couldnt wait for NWN to come out, seeing as how i loved the Baldur; s Gate series, and i love 
 played D&D with friends. but this game, IMO, is a total let down. First, you open the box to a 
 cheap cloth map, and CDs in paper holders. oh well, i figured, just to save money. i pop in the 
 game. Single player was a waist of time. no parties, they force you to solo. now i love soloing, 
 but i also love playing with parties and getting to know the NPCs. So i tried Multi player. the 
 MP is ok, but if you dont have any friends who play NWN, the MP is boring, and not very fun. I 
 spent hours looking for a fun game, and even whn you join, over half are people just standing around 
 talking or messing around, they arent even playing the game. or other games are people getting 
 9999999 XP for killing rats, just to spam XP and raise their char level, and getting uber items 
 for killing pathetic creatures. It as a good try, but NWN fails as a truely good RPG in todays 
 world. Baldur's Gate is still the game for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ukiimail
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 16, 2006 8:24 pm PT
Review:  I've played through Neverwinter Nights, but honestly I've come away less than impressed. The problems 
 I had with the game are numerous, and now I remember why I didn't enjoy it several years ago when 
 it was first released. Before continuing on, however, allow me to present a disclaimer: I am reviewing 
 this game without considering the fact that it is based on the D&D rules. As a PC gamer and someone 
 who never played RPG board games, I feel I am not alone in being unfamiliar with the D&D universe. 
 Nevertheless, as an avid PC gamer, I have played dozens of PC RPG's, so I think I can distinguish 
 the good games from the bad.
  
  Now to begin with, the biggest complaint with NWN lies with the story: it's absolutely atrocious, 
 and the first eight hours or so are some of the worst you will find in any RPG -- Planescape: Torment, 
 Baldur's Gate, and KOTOR all have far superior plots, yet they all also come from Bioware. Even 
 if you are willing to sacrifice a couple hours of your life to trod through the boring single-player 
 quest, the game design also has some serious issues. For one, there are way too many character 
 classes, pointless abilities, etc. Combine that with the prestige classes, and the whole thing 
 is just so muddled that I can't understand how one can make a suitable character. After playing 
 for a couple hours you will finally discover the "right" choices to building your character, but 
 at this point you will have to start the game all over again and replay the horrid first eight 
 hours (another option would be to keep the FAQs handy of course) . Furthermore, there is far too 
 much boring text to read in comparison with KOTOR, which managed to keep the story from bordering 
 on the mundane. When I heard about the clichd plague, and the fact that four corners of the town 
 would need to be explored, I already knew the game was in trouble. 
  
  As for the gameplay, the idea of having only one player controlled character was clearly a poor 
 choice as there is little to do besides "click click" ala Diablo. While clicking on enemies to 
 fight is at least passively interesting, bashing all the chests found within the game certainly 
 is not. As if this were not bad enough, the party character AI is quite poor; the NPCs in the party 
 manage to get lost frequently and seem to have no idea how to use spells properly (even so, NWN 
 still beats out KOTOR's AI in this regard) .
  
  On looking at the interface, from a PC gaming perspective, it is disturbing is how much information 
 about the D&D ruleset they actually displayed in the console and within the game itself by default. 
 Who the hell cares what my dice rolls where in the game? If I cared about that, I'd be playing 
 the board game, and not a PC game which can be substantially more immersive. How does seeing roll 
 calculations and damage numbers showing up floating over enemies heads really engage less-hardcore 
 players in the D&D universe?
  
  The graphics aren't particularly special either, and never were even when the game first came out. 
 The characters are blocky, the architecture repetitive, and the textures quite ugly. Regardless, 
 the quality of graphics isn't really a big deal for an RPG. The character customization is surprisingly 
 also poor, however, and the player's avatar cannot be personalized to any great degree: I found 
 it almost impossible to make a character which looked appealing. Player models all end up looking 
 the same since there are so few different heads and portraits, but what can you do? I still find 
 it funny that within the first tutorial section, I found a character with the same portrait as 
 mine -- apparently I've been cloned. This is pretty lame if you ask me, and it seriously hampers 
 the immersion factor. The only technical highlight seems to be the sound, which was better than 
 I expected, but since only a handful of the dialogues are voiced (the optional Q&A parts are only 
 text of course) , I have some obvious criticism here after playing the acoustically fleshed-out 
 KOTOR.
  
  In the end, this game seems best suited for hardcore D&D players who really enjoyed the boardgame, 
 and is additionally targeted at the mod community. The developer's story itself is pretty bad compared 
 to other games in the genre including several of their own, as previously mentioned. The game, 
 with its repetitive tilesets and poor textures, is obviously built with user-created content in 
 mind, and in this sense its appeal to the online community is understandable. Nevertheless, I feel 
 the out-of-the-box experience is less than stellar, and Bioware could have easily put more effort 
 into at least having a decent single-player game; if so many talented modders can come up with 
 interesting modules, one has to question if Bioware chose to rush NWN out of the door. If youre 
 looking for an engaging and versatile single player campaign, either download some user mods, or 
 try the excellent KOTOR series instead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nealok
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 7, 2005 12:25 pm PT
Review:  If you have Neverwinter Nights, Planescape: Torment, Fallout, and Morrowind, you will never need 
 to buy another role-playing game ever again. Neverwinter Nights is one of the most outstanding 
 role-playing games to be released on any system; indeed, some might consider this the best role-playing 
 game ever made. 
  
  NWN doesn't grapple with the same scope of Baldur's Gate II or Morrowind. You are a figure of import, 
 but even at the conclusion of the packaged campaign, you are no god. You are merely an exceptional 
 person who has finished an epic quest of some importance to the Forgotten Realms. Good for you. 
 The bundled quest has dozens upon dozens of side quests to finish, but at the same time, you can 
 complete the game easily without seeing a single one of them. Even if you only play the main campaign, 
 you get your money's worth. 
  
  The game's graphics aren't on par with Morrowind, but they are still attractive, as well as detailed 
 enough to give the impression of a living world. The game unfolds from an isometric perspective, 
 but that can be changed slightly by zooming, rotating, or tilting the camera to take advantage 
 of the fully 3D world. 
  
  The voice acting doesn't seem to be on the same level as Baldur's Gate 2, Bioware, previous game, 
 but it's spare enough that it's not as noticable. In a change of pace from the other Bioware/Infinity 
 Engine games, you can only control one character. In fact, you can't even gain more than one henchman 
 in Neverwinter Nights. Most of the time, that henchman is a moron, to boot. Double-trouble! 
  
  For most games, this would be a fair capsule review. Good graphics, good sound, great story, 
 good controls, smooth interface. But Neverwinter Nights shipped with arguably the best scenario 
 editor and DM Toolkit to ever bless your hard drive. 
  
  You may or may not know the joys of pencil/paper role-playing. Many games have attempted to emulate 
 the experience, whether in the half-hearted mutterings of Baldur's Gate or Icewind Dale, or the 
 multiplayer travesty that was Vampire the Masquerade: Redemption. The Aurora Toolset that came 
 with Neverwinter Nights is a robust suite that the development team used to actually write the 
 main campaign; that campaign is almost like a sample, an example of some of the things you can 
 do with the Aurora toolset. So any player with the inclination can write a pretty decent game with 
 the toolset. And any player with a decent knowledge of C can actually write his own scripts and 
 create a professional level gaming experience from scratch... with a DM 
  
  After all the fun level making, NWN also has a powerful DM client that allows a player to assume 
 the mantle of Dungeon Master. Unlike Vampire's weak DM client which controlled with a facility 
 roughly akin to driving a phone booth, NWN's DM client controls like another player, but that player 
 is uber-fast and able to walk through walls, enter whatever areas he wants whenever he wants, and 
 otherwise manipulate the environment or creatures however he wants. While it might appear overwhelming 
 at first, NWN also features a powerful hotkey system that can allow you to do everything from cast 
 magic missil at will to insert your favorite trap where you next click the mouse. With a competent 
 enough DM, you wouldn't even need an overly scripted campaign! Sheer genius. 
  
  Up above, I wrote out a list of what I consider to be the definitive RPG collection for any interested 
 gamer. When I first typed it, I considered including Baldur's Gate II on that list. But it was 
 superfluous. See, an assiduous group of people could make their own BG2 given the time and inclination 
 with the NWN construction kit. It's already been done for the classic Pool of Radiance. There are 
 dozens are very well done user mods already out there, and if you are so inclined you can add to 
 the pool. This is a game with almost unlimited shelf life. Do yourself a favor and pick up one 
 of the best role-playing experiences of the last ten years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tysonius
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 15, 2004 7:11 pm PT
Review:  Since NWN's been out for a couple years now, it may be pointless to add my ten cents, but I'll 
 keep it short and sweet: The single player game is good, but not up to BG or BG II standards. As 
 usual with Bioware products, the voice acting is good or better, and that more than the graphics 
 are what make you relate to a character (not unlike KotOR, hmmm) . I think the artists at Bioware 
 did a great job giving texture and color to the clothing, fire, water, etc., but the character 
 polygon count is pretty outdated (see City of Heroes screenshots for comparison) . I liked the radial 
 menu for actions, but am not married to the camera angles (see ref to CoH above, which I think 
 is a real improvement) .
  
  The main reason I bought the game was to create my own modules, and that it does very well. Setting 
 up an area's buildings and natural features is extremely easy, and placing insta-encounters is 
 likewise something that can be done in seconds. I think the sound palette is quite good, though 
 I would've like more voices from which to choose for NPCs. However, to really set up anything other 
 than simple plots or hack and slash, you have to understand the scripting tools. Considering the 
 paucity of documentation, this will take some effort on the DM's part -- a lot, if you've never done 
 any programming. I tend to run campaigns in D&D, so I wasn't satisfied with generating a bunch 
 of standalone modules. That meant a lot of time getting to know the scripting and reading anything 
 I could find in the way of documentation and online tutorials. It's very much a dream-fulfillment 
 for me to be able to turn my PNP campaign into an online game, but I'm hoping Bioware/Obsidian 
 does a much better job with the toolset documentation the next time around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sgthalka
Rating: 8.2
Date: Oct 25, 2004 3:05 pm PT
Review:  RPG fans who crave a faithful, epic D&D CRPG haven't had much to pick from in recent years. Temple 
 of Elemental Evil looked beautiful, but clunky, buggy gameplay ruined what could have been a fantastic 
 throwback to Bioware's Infinity Engine games. Interplay's own D&D efforts have gone the action-RPG 
 route with Baldur's Gate: Dark Alliance I and II. While Neverwinter Nights is far from perfect, 
 it definitely is the best traditional RPG fix for D&D fans since Baldur's Gate II.
  
  First, the bad stuff. The game is designed to be intentionally easy. Instant teleportation can 
 whisk you out of any battle so you can rest, heal and buff up, then teleport back in. Henchman 
 can die and be raised for free an unlimited number of times. They're always waiting for you back 
 at the teleport point. Henchman are also finicky to control. They rush into battles without warning, 
 they choose their own foes to fight, and you can't manage their inventories or gear (at least not 
 until Shadows of Undrentide) . And of course, you only get one henchmen (two in Hordes of the Underdark) 
 which kills the "party" facet of traditional D&D. But perhaps my biggest complaint is that there's 
 no "sky". The NWN engine gives you a top-down 3D view of fully rendered environments except you 
 NEVER GET A SKY! That takes away the realism in a way I wouldn't have expected.
  
  But there's lots of good stuff, which gets overshadowed by the complaints tossed above. First, 
 the story isn't bad at all. It's not at KOTOR or BGII's level, but I enjoyed playing through it. 
 Second, the character development is awesome as long as you have some idea of what you're doing. 
 The game gives you "recommended' advice if you need it, but it's worth your time to read up at 
 NWN's community fan site on how to build a great character. Laying out a path for an awesome epic-level 
 character is good stuff. Third, the graphics are clunky and outdated but the spell animations are 
 still fun and combat is a joy to watch. And lastly, you can get the whole package (NWN, Undrentide, 
 Hordes) in the Platinum package for $30 or $40 now, and that's a huge steal. 
  
  If you haven't given NWN a shot yet, or tried it earlier and gave up, you're missing out on a decent 
 D&D experience. Much better than Temple of Elemental Evil and much more satisfying than the Dark 
 Alliance series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shawnwon
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 5, 2004 6:11 am PT
Review:  The game is fun the gameplay is ok the graphics are ok the sound is very good the one 
  thing that take's from this game is game play you don't have alot of control over your player if 
 the game play was more like Starwars Knights of the Old Republic it would be a 10 all in all the 
 game is fun it's worth the money. i'm a off and on rpg player so keep that in mind when reading 
 this. The story is good so far, i have not beat the game yet. It's a nice learning curve to get 
 around if you never play a rpg. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Epicsoldier
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 25, 2004 1:57 am PT
Review:  This game is amazing, i was never really a big RPG fan, certain games i realy really liked, but 
 most i hated. Then i played Dungeon Siege, that changed my mind alot, so after i was done Dungeon 
 Siege, I seen Neverwinter nights, it looked pretty good, so i bought it, and it was worth every 
 penny. This game is so deep in story it will have you being so addicted to it that you can't leave. 
 The graphics are good, the lighting is what makes it look so great. The sound is very well done, 
 and the gameplay it'sself is really great. The A. I isn't all that stupid either, so it's not really 
 an easy game. There plenty of expansion's for Neverwinter to, so it's like a Never ending game!. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Swamination
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 17, 2004 4:45 am PT
Review:  Neverwinter Nights is a product of several generations of D&D-backed RPG games. It learned, expanded, 
 cleaned up, and improved upon many aspects of the others, and has become a wildly popular game 
 that will hold a large following for a long time to come.
  
  The storyline is linear, yet with chapters allowing you to explore many areas in the order of your 
 choice. Character creation is fun, and divergence is broadened with levels and even further if 
 you purchase each of the excellent expansions. The journey is easy-going, as the radial-menu system 
 helps find out what to do. Unsure? Right-Click it.
  
  The 3D engine was a great change from the 2D/sprite-ish isometric view of its predecessors, and 
 is very well implemented with complex shadows, colored lighting, and various other special effects. 
 With some antialiasing, this game is gorgeous. The camera is fully controllable for virtually ANY 
 perspective on your journey. Get up close for the battles, or take in the scenery from afar. Many 
 of the items you acquire change the look of your character, making for even more eye candy and 
 character ownership.
  
  The audio in Neverwinter has a large score of ambient sounds to accompany the fairly mundane music. 
 There are a few areas where the sounds and music will combine to creep you out (cool) , and the 
 tempo will quicken in battle. That dynamic touch to the environments makes ok music much more enjoyable.
 
  
  Neverwinter Nights has a complete editing program allowing users to create modules to share with 
 other users online, or to host for others to join. This is quite possibly the greatest feature 
 of the game. Supporting up to 64 simultaneous players, there are servers out there holding persistent 
 player-created worlds, including player vs player combat (with or without teams) . You can create 
 your own items, monsters, events, conversations, you name it. It truly captures much of the tabletop 
 element in scenario creation tools to create your own masterpiece. The sky is the limit, as each 
 area in a module can link to virtually unlimited other areas. How much time do you have? BioWare 
 created a masterful multiplayer component that is stable and only limited in scope by the users 
 who make content.
  
  I have owned this game since almost day one, and still enjoy it, even though I have played through 
 Dungeon Siege and a bunch of beta MMORPGs. If you like RPGs, dynamic lighting, player and dev content, 
 and multiplayer worlds, pick up the Neverwinter series now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cchefner
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 11, 2004 7:10 pm PT
Review:  I had originally bought this game as a chance to play an online rpg that moved and progressed more 
 quickly than the mmorgs that are currently flooding the market. The first time through you will 
 find yourself playing the original 40 hour + single player campaign, which on a basic level includes 
 some underdeveloped AI for companion and enemy players. For gamers new to the D&D style RPGs, the 
 companions can be life savers while you learn the controls since fighter classes can choose from 
 a variety of spell casters to aid them, and a few tanks to keep monsters off of you if you chose 
 the mage or archer approach. For experienced D&D players, the difficulty setting can be raised 
 to include rules for damaging fellow party members and non aggresive NPCs.
  
  After playing through the first time, NWN has 2 expansion packs that bing in several prestige classes 
 that should be very familliar to 3rd addition gamers. These classes allow you to take full advantage 
 of the 3 classes one character can level at any given time. Arcane Archers (Shadows of the Undrentide) 
 allow characters to deal fireball arrows for massive area damage, and arrows that never miss for 
 the frustrating concealed monsters. Red Dragon Disciples (Hordes of the Underdark) give sorcerers 
 and bards natural strength, defense, and eventually dragon breath and wings.
  
  Finally, after playing through 3 campaigns and somewhere around 80 - 100 hours of gaming, you should 
 have 2 or 3 very powerful characters to take into the online version of the game. NWN includes 
 an extensive dungeon master kit allowing players to create their own levels, items, and npcs allowing 
 for endless campaigns to bring your character to epic status. After playing online a few times 
 you will find the main function of this game is the multiplayer aspect leaving the single player 
 campaigns for character building.
  
  Overall, the game uses a basic set of graphic tile sets and somewhat predictable music scores. 
 There is a high replay factor as you try to build the perfect character for your style of playing. 
 Have fun and hopefully this helps out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dapsone
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 19, 2004 5:38 pm PT
Review:  I just want to say that this is THE game I've been waiting for since I first played an video game 
 RPG (Final Fantasy & Dragon Warrior on the NES) . I believe (at least hope) that NWN sets the standard 
 for a full genre of gaming. What I'm referring to isn't necessarily the single player game, but 
 rather the multiplayer support and the Aurora Toolset. What wows me the most is that I've always 
 wanted to create my own games and this toolset allows 'anyone' to create a module through a toolset 
 and script editing. If you're not into creating modules, this DOES give tremendous value as there 
 are thousands of modules available. Furthermore, the multiplayer features allows the equivalence 
 of playing DnD online in a video game environment. How Awesome!!!
  
  Again, PLEASE let this be a new trend instead of a flash in the pan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deano
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 29, 2004 9:26 pm PT
Review:  I guess I'll write up my review again since gamespot seems to like to delete old reviews.
  
  First off I want to say I am sick of people talking about baldurs gate, give it a rest already, 
 yes it was good but do we have to compare every rpg to it for the rest of eternity.
  
  ok now that I've got my chest let's start.
  
  I was actually one of the people who enjoyed 
 the single player experience so I don't see what the complaints were about. I guess I don't try 
 and think too much when I play games so I don't work out where it is going. NPC's give pretty good 
 and varied dialogue and I enjoyed the side quests. The main character aribeth is quite strong in 
 her performance and portrayal of her actions. I felt quite emotive about the story and I think 
 that's what makes a good RPG. Your henchmen and varied and interesting and generally and pretty 
 good at fighting and keeping themselves out of trouble. Selecting appropriate dialogue options 
 can lead your characters to build quite a friendship so they are more than just expendable mercs 
 for hire. It'll take maybe a good 30+ hours to finish if you take your time by doing the sidequests 
 and exploring every portion of the map. 
  
  I liked the graphics alot, only beef I have is the character models are a bit blocky especially 
 around the joints and run like they are constipated. It was nice to see all the different armour 
 and weapons equipped. I think the spell effects are probably the best of any D&D game.
  
  Sound was incredible I loved the music and it had a great number of different tracks to fit the 
 mood as well. Sound effects were great as well with aptly fitting spell and battle effects.
  
  I think there is a fair amount of reply especially with all the mods out there, and the ability 
 to try all the different classes as well as the henchmen.
  
  I'd also suggest buying the hordes of the underdark expansion as I felt that it was even more engaging 
 the original. Though the same can't be said for shadows of unrentide which i'd avoid buying unless 
 you were desperate to try a certain prestige class.
  
  So all in all I thought nwn was a great RP experience, single player included. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: async
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 28, 2003 7:33 pm PT
Review:  So, you want to play an RPG? After a year and a half, Neverwinter Nights remains a paragon of RPG 
 glory. What's amazing is that this game is destined to go down as one of the most mod-friendly 
 games ever. Because the engine is so deep and inspiring, only now are some of the biggest projects 
 coming. Dragonlance Adventures and City of Doors Initiative are nearing release of their projects, 
 which are equal in scope and likely superior in quality to the official campaign... and free. There 
 are already some great modules out, like Adam Miller's Dreamcatcher modules; but these are raising 
 the bar. Adam is going to be releasing his sequels to Dreamcatcher, dubbed Demon.
  
  So if you haven't experienced NWN by now, and you have internet access, especially broadband, you 
 owe it to yourself to try this game... or, if you weren't impressed by the fairly unimpressive 
 official campaign, then perhaps try it again, because now the best part of the game is coming to 
 fruition. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 5, 2003 7:39 am PT
Review:  The single player campaign for Neverwinter Nights is fun and enjoyable, but you cant help but 
 be frustrated by thinking about what it could have been. This game could have been a perfect 10, 
 like Baldurs Gate 2 or the old Gold Box games with fancy graphics and a slick interface. All of 
 the previous Bioware/Black Isle Dungeons and Dragons computer games have had a great single-player 
 campaign. However, for Neverwinter Nights, the single-player campaign was carved up and watered 
 down to make it Mod friendly and multi-player friendly.
  
  The highlight of this game is really its engine and its interface. The interface is a critical 
 yet under-appreciated aspect of every RPG, and NWN has maybe the best ever made. Every task is 
 just a few intuitive mouse-clicks away, and customization is a snap. You can set up a whopping 
 36 hot keys, by using the 12 F keys, and then the F keys in combination with Shift or Ctrl. This 
 makes for gameplay that is efficient and never bogs down. Radial menus allow you to quickly access 
 actions that are not hot-keyed, and your inventory comes up quickly on the main screen. As a whole, 
 the controls are very easy to use, and they are very refined. There simply arent any long inventory 
 rearrangement sessions or menu hunts in this game. Its impossible to overstate how important that 
 is.
  
  The graphics, for the most part, are very good. Faces are somewhat blocky and featureless, but 
 the rest of the character parts look great. Your character looks dramatically different, depending 
 upon what he is wearing and using. Battle animations are impressive and fun to watch. The best 
 aspect of the graphics though, has to be the games magic effects. Playing a wizard is fun just 
 to see all the neat eye candy. Fireballs, lightning bolts, acid clouds, and magic missiles look 
 fantastic. Most areas look great when you first enter them, although the use of cookie-cutter tile 
 sets gets boring after a while. Artwork in NWN is almost nonexistent. There arent any unique, 
 unforgettable areas like there have been in the other recent D&D games (like Watchers Keep in Throne 
 of Bhaal) .
  
  The soundtrack for Neverwinter Nights is one of my favorites of all time. Jeremy Soule put together 
 another masterpiece for this game. The theme song is beautiful, and so are a lot of the ambient 
 pieces in the game, like the temple music. There are also a few really rousing battle songs in 
 the game, especially for some of the boss battles. In general, the sound is very good.
  
  The main storyline for the game is mediocre, but it makes up for it in a lot of ways. There is 
 one major side plot in the game which is interesting, unpredictable, and somewhat tragic. There 
 are a lot of very creative and interesting side quests in the game. One sidequest requires that 
 you collect bounties on criminals by retrieving their ears. Another requires you to be the defense 
 attorney in a murder trial. Its too bad that the creativity shown for the side quests isnt in 
 the games main quest.
  
  Unfortunately, this game plays a lot like Diablo when it comes to the action, and that is not a 
 compliment. I am simply baffled by the amount of games that have Diablo envy, and this game is 
 one of the worst offenders. For starters, you just play a single character, and you can only get 
 help from one dumb henchman, whose inventory and actions you cant control. The AI for your henchman 
 is non-existent, so you are best off just picking a melee bashing machine to join you. 
  
  Many areas are populated with endless hordes of low-level enemies that you slice through until 
 you come to one or two boss characters. Along the way, you break open chests. And more chests. 
 And more chests. And more chests. And then more chests. This game has eight trillion chests. Everywhere 
 you look there is a small pile of gold under a rock, or some item of randomly generated junk. Most 
 of the magic items in the game are randomly generated, and have absolutely no charm or character 
 to them. During Chapter 1, you find a bunch of low-level magic items, and in Chapter 2, you find 
 the same set of magic items with slightly higher modifications, sorta like Diablo. And then there 
 is the Portal Stone, which is simplified version of the Town Portal scroll from Diablo. The Portal 
 Stone allows you to escape from anywhere at any time to get back to town, and it simply had no 
 business being in this game.
  
  Baldurs Gate 2 is a much better role-playing game, and Icewind Dale 2 is a much better tactical 
 combat game. In order to enjoy Neverwinter Nights, you have to forget that it is Dungeons and 
 Dragons, and instead judge it on its own merits. When you do that, you will see that it is fun 
 and enjoyable. Its hard for me to stop wishing that this game had been a 6-character, non-liner 
 RPG. Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic looks like an indicator of what Neverwinter Nights 
 could have been if Bioware had wanted to make a great single-player experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adam5150
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 12, 2003 1:15 am PT
Review:  I am reviewing this game only because of jnieberd's false review on the game.
  
  After playing the Baldur's Gate series numerous times over, i couldn't help but finally buy and 
 try out NWN. According to what jnieberd said about the game, it has trouble running and installing. 
 I had no problems installing or running this game, even without applying the patch! I have a AMD 
 Athalon XP 2000+ 512 DDR mb RAM, with a GeForce 3 ti 500 videocard and i had 0 problems running 
 the game. The game has only crashed maybe once or twice on me. 
  
  I think the only problem i had with this game is that it is WAY to easy. Even on harder difficulties. 
 My main character is a LvL 20 Sorcerer, and i can easily beat the whole campaign over in 6 hours 
 or less. 
  
  The graphics are fine, but they look a bit too cartoonish for my taste. I dont really mind the 
 graphics at all though.
  
  The gameplay is really similiar to the Baldur's Gate series. Only thing different i think is the 
 HUD. 
  
  One other complaint i had about this game is that while playing Baldur's Gate 2: Shadows of Amn, 
 i was told numerous times that i would be able to IMPORT my baldur's gate characters into neverwinter 
 nights. And guess what? I WASNT ABLE TOO! That was pretty disappointing since i had a lvl 40 Wizard 
 ready :)
  
  Well in conclusion, i think that the game is pretty much worth buying. However, NWN isnt a game 
 that you will want to play over and over. Once you beat the game the first time, it's just not 
 fun playing the whole campaign over again. What makes the game what 30+ hours to beat? Is that 
 you stop and examine chests or barrels around the area your in to only find a whopping 100gp! If 
 i hadn't stopped to check every barrel or chest in the game to only find a light cure potion for 
 225gp i would have beaten the game in under 6 hours. 
  
  Oh and this game runs perfectly fine on my computer, no slow-downs or freezing up even with 5 other 
 programs running. 
  
  If you liked all the othet Bioware games i would really suggest checking this one out.
  
  
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SnugBall
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 10, 2003 4:10 pm PT
Review:  As an addict of Diablo II and Dungeon Siege, I wasn't really sure if Neverwinter was the kind of 
 game I would enjoy, even after researching reviews and playing the not so indicitive demo. 
  
  So, now that I have the game I can't seem to get enough of it. Neverwinter isn't as overwhelming 
 with features and text as Baldur's Gate (Never could get into that game) and its not exactly as 
 action packed as Diablo, but, Its somewhere in between which works out beautifuly.
  
  There are lots of things to do in the Neverwinter universe, most of which are entertaining, and 
 because it is for the most part "open ended", you wont be forced into too many features you dont 
 like. The story is good, its not like Tolkein or Raymond E. Feist quality, but because its D&D, 
 you can rest assured the story is well developed and interesting. Don't worry about having to read 
 through huge amounts of text though, you could actually skip most, if not all text, as its realitively 
 simple to understand what you need to do to progress.
  Gameplay is fun because combat is fun. Lets face it, in the end, its all about the combat and Neverwinter 
 delivers pretty good in this department. The action is hardly frantic and seems more calculated, (closer 
 to what it would be like in real life) though I would have liked to see more variety in animations 
 and sounds i. e. More variety in player and monster attack types, more blood and kill animations, 
 more grunts and hollars, metal clangs, that sort of thing. Spells look and sound awesome, im not 
 one to play wizard, but I very much love watching spells do their thing, and because you can hire 
 a mage or play with other people, the joy of wathing magic fly around is always availible. All-in-all, 
 the combat is really fun. 
  Another great feature, all though nothing new, is that items in your inventory are visually identicle 
 when equiped on your character. Armor, weapons and helmets all look awesome, probably the best 
 looking player characters I've ever seen. You will gaze proudly at your gleaming armor and vicious 
 weaponry... really, the visuals on characters is great, and most of the monsters look fantastic 
 too, and there are lots of different monsters, though it would have been good to see more variety 
 in same species graphics, like size, color, scars, missing limbs, but its pretty dang good as is.
 
  Neverwinter's sound scheme is on par as well. With decent sound effects and mood enhancing music, 
 the game is easy to listen to, but, as allways, I would like to see more variety in this department 
 too.
  Level graphics leave something to be desired. Everything looks good, but its all a bit stearal. 
 The artists didn't go out of their way in creating as robust a tile set as they pobably could have. 
 Much of the level graphics are somewhat blocky (You'll hear this in most reviews) The levels are 
 alitte too "clean" It would be nice to see more dust, dirt, garbage, rags, piles of stuff, blood, 
 reminants of battles past all littering the landscape, and while all of this is attempted by the 
 developers, its just not as good as one would want from a game like Neverwinter Nights. Keep in 
 mind though, the blockyness ends with sendentary elements, player characters, NPCs and monster 
 are all well crafted graphics, organic and life-like. I must mention: There are some remarkable 
 visual effects in this game, like dynamic lighting and shadows, again, nothing new, but none the 
 less well excicuted. Another nice feature is realistic wind effects, clothing and hair bellow in 
 a breeze and tall grass flows with the wind or reacts realisticly with your character or monster 
 movment... this wind effect is an awesome idea and I hope Bio Ware and other developers jump on 
 the technology and make it even better.
  
  Ok, so your torn twards getting into Neverwinter. I have never really enjoyed the Idea of D&D... 
 Long greasy hair, no girl friend, dork comes to mind when I think D&D, but NWN is no D&D session 
 as far as im concerned... its just plain fun with a little more depth than usual. No need to roll 
 dice here! Valkrie is not about to die!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jgalt
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 6, 2003 9:04 am PT
Review:  Good but not great graphics. The sound is very well done. And I believe the game is a great value 
 with all you get in terms of gameplay, tools, and fan modules, etc.
  
  Gameplay would get a 10 if it weren't for the realtime combat and the D&D system. The combats are 
 often not challenging and as is often the case with real-time combat, you feel more like a spectator 
 than a participant. What's worse as you up on level many battles will net you essentially no experience. 
 For example, when I was clearing out trolls and ogres in one of the East Road areas, I was getting 
 4 experience points for the Ogres and 18 experience points for the trolls. At that level it's not 
 worth fighting. I'd prefer a "quick combat" option or an option for overpower creatures to simply 
 flee in awe so I could avoid those low exp. combats entirely, because they are boring and time 
 consuming. 
  
  The interface is about as well-designed as it could be and is a joy to use. The stories, NPCs, 
 quests, etc. are also very well done. 
  
  All in all the game is worthy of the 9.0 rating, especially given my tilt. I'm looking forward 
 to the playing the new expansion that's out now.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: T0I0M7
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 16, 2003 5:38 am PT
Review:  Okay, everyone has already said everything that needs to be said about this game, and there are 
 a thousand reasons to buy it. Simple, convenient, and intuitive controls, excellent third person 
 3D graphics, a pretty good campaign, and a basically infinite number of possible homemade adventures 
 to be found online, as well as the tremendous multiplayer possibilities all add up to buy it immediately.
 
  
  I have a couple minor issues with the game, but the only one that needs mentioning is the voices. 
 Some of the voice acting is find, but a sizable portion is unimpressive, and leaves me a bit dissapointed. 
 My main complaint about the voices, however, is that, as far as I can tell, there is no way to 
 customize the voice clips for your character. In Baldur's Gate, back in '98, you could record your 
 own complete set of sound files for your main character, and insert it into the game. That was 
 extremely gratifying for me, as it made it that much easier to personalize my character and give 
 him a true identity. A few of the available voices for male and female characters are decent, but 
 most are practically unusable, they're so poor. In fact, there are only about 1/4 of the available 
 voices that I hear used in multiplayer games, over and over again, such that everyone ends up sounding 
 the same. Customizable voices would be an awesome addition.
  
  Obviously, with such a small issue being my biggest complaint, you can imagine how fantastic this 
 game must be. Buy it immediately, I say. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: digggd
Rating: 10
Date: May 23, 2003 12:11 am PT
Review:  This game is truly a gem. It is among the best RPG games that I have ever played and I have played 
 a lot of them. Very good story line and it has a lot to do in the game. The graphics are excellent. 
 At first I thought the graphics were about an 8 or a 9, but once I got past chapter one and able 
 to finally go outside of the city it seemed like the graphics got a whole lot better taking it 
 up to a 10. Do not be turned off by the first chapter; many are upset that all you can do is run 
 around the town, that is because you have to beat the first chapter. The real game lies after the 
 first chapter. I just wish that I had more interactions with my partner such as in Baulders Gate 
 II. Also it seems too easy at times to [Persuade] NPCs. All in all though a very good game, I have 
 spent a very, very, very long time on this game and still have a long way to go. I can't wait for 
 the expansion packs. This game is much better than that Morrowind crap that is collecting dust 
 on my shelf. Also I enjoy this one more than Dungeon Siege. I liked Dungeon Siege a lot and even 
 beat it, but this game is much deeper with graphics just as good if not better than DS. My favorite 
 RPGs are still Baulders Gate II and Daggerfall. Way to go BioWare! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
