-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: New World Order
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/newworldorder/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr  2, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 2.1
Critic Score: 4.4, 17 Review (s)
User Score: 3.8, 136 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Strategy First
Developer: Termite Games
Genre: Modern First-Person...
Date:     Mar 18, 2003
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
New World Order tries to emulate other tactical shooters but fails in every imaginable way. 

 
  At first glance, New World Order gives the impression that it's an unoriginal game, rushed out 
 the door to cash in on the latest trend. Unfortunately, this first impression is pretty much accurate. 
 The back of the box states that New World Order is a "super realistic, tactical team-based first-person 
 shooter." The problem is that the game isn't realistic, it contains only shallow tactical features, 
 and it's played without help from AI teammates. New World Order tries to emulate other tactical 
 shooters such as Counter-Strike and Tom Clancy's Raven Shield but fails in every imaginable way. 
           Is my name Dobbs or is it Parker?    

  According to the story, your name is John Dobbs, and you're the latest member of the elite Global 
 Assault Team, a top-secret, worldwide organization created to fight terrorism. Even if you can 
 ignore the fact that this setup is a direct rip-off of Ubi Soft's Rainbow Six series, you'll probably 
 notice that at no time during the game do you meet any other member of this so-called team. All 
 the missions in the game are solo missions, with no help whatsoever from any other operatives. 
 Aside from the commanding officer, who gives canned orders at the beginning of each mission, you 
 appear to be the only field operative in the GAT. Even the opening level, set at GAT headquarters, 
 is entirely bereft of other GAT employees, despite the fact that it's a multistory office building 
 with dozens of desks. To make things even more bizarre, a text prompt at the beginning of each 
 mission addresses you as Agent Parker. Is your name Dobbs or is it Parker? Maybe Parker is your 
 supersecret code name, for use only out in the field? The world may never know.  

  It would be an understatement to label New World Order's graphics mediocre. The game's textures 
 are flat and drab, and this is exacerbated by the fact that most missions take place at night or 
 during overcast days. The game's vertex lighting looks downright primitive by today's standards, 
 while models contain few polygons and are animated in a stiff manner. New World Order's death animations 
 result in corpses lying in bizarrely contorted positions, which is odd because these animations 
 are pre-set and not the result of rag-doll physics as in Raven Shield and some other shooters. 
 The game features some blood, which probably contributed to its M rating, but for some strange 
 reason, blood on the ground evaporates almost immediately.  

  Given how little New World Order offers in terms of graphics, the game's steep system requirements 
 seem puzzling. Even on a fairly high-end system with a 2.53GHz Pentium 4 and an ATI Radeon 9700 
 Pro, New World Order's frame rate is terrible. With more than two or three enemies firing onscreen, 
 the frame rate drops into the low teens. If more than 10 enemies in a level are activated, the 
 visuals become a literal slideshow, and the game becomes completely unplayable.           Yes, 
 this is how the game looks with graphical settings almost maxed.    

  Unfortunately, the game's sound doesn't really have any redeeming qualities either. New World Order's 
 tinny sound effects make each of its real-world weapons sound like a toy gun. Even the multibarreled 
 minigun sounds underwhelming. The voice acting is terrible. Your travels take you around the world 
 from Sweden to Chechnya to the Middle East, but apparently terrorists all around the world speak 
 three phrases of English: "Kill Him!" "Take him down!" or "Not a chance!"  

  And as it turns out, New World Order's gameplay is awful. On normal and hard difficulty levels, 
 you can sustain about two to four shots before dying. That may sound bad already, but the fact 
 that AI opponents can see through walls and are often already firing at you as they turn the corner 
 to engage you makes it worse. Most missions contain anywhere from 12 to 20 enemies, so it's nearly 
 impossible to make it through an entire mission. Yet for some bizarre reason, there's no way to 
 save the game during a mission? If you die, you must start over from the beginning. Turning the 
 difficulty level to easy is the only reasonable option, which will let you sustain a lot more damage 
 before dying, but since the frame rate drops precipitously during big firefights, you'll probably 
 die a good number of times in the later levels anyway.  

  There are only 12 missions in New World Order, and each consists of just a tiny map, sprinkled 
 with some enemies. Although some missions ask you to gather intelligence or rescue a hostage, in 
 almost all cases, none of these side quests need to be accomplished; it's simpler to just kill 
 every enemy in the level. Even taking into account a liberal amount of restarting, it will take 
 you only about an afternoon to get through New World Order's campaign. Don't expect to beat the 
 last mission though -- with more than 20 enemies on the map at once, the frame rate plummets, and 
 it becomes impossible to finish the game.     

  The manner in which you equip weapons in New World Order is ill-conceived. At the start of each 
 mission you can equip various weapons based on what rank you've attained. This rank and experience 
 system plays little role in the game because after the second mission, you'll always have acquired 
 enough experience to buy any weapon you like. You're also given a weight limit of what you can 
 carry -- each gun, grenade, and clip you equip yourself with has a certain weight, and according 
 to the game's documentation, the more you carry, the slower you move, although we never found weight 
 to affect movement speed significantly. While that may seem insignificant, for some bizarre reason, 
 there's no way for you to tell how much weight you are carrying. Based on the stats given for each 
 item, you're forced to calculate in your head how close you are to the 10-kilogram limit. Even 
 more frustrating is that you cannot pick up a dropped weapon if you're already carrying one of 
 that type. For instance, if you're carrying an AK-47, and an enemy drops one after dying -- you can't 
 even take the bullets from the dropped weapon to add to your stash. If you run out of bullets, 
 you're forced to memorize the gun's location and go back to it later.           Don't mess with 
 the one-man GAT.    

  Actually firing New World Order's weapons is an exercise in frustration. Despite the game's claims 
 of realism, all of the rifles and submachine guns fire in full automatic mode. There's no selector 
 switch to change to single shot or burst fire, and since the firing rate is so fast, it's difficult 
 to manually fire weapons in short bursts. Even kneeling, bullets tend to stray well away from your 
 crosshairs, which, unlike the crosshairs in more-realistic games like Counter-Strike and the Rainbow 
 Six series, do not expand to show the increasing inaccuracy of the weapon as it's being fired. 
 Did you run out of bullets and want to quickly switch to a pistol instead of reloading your primary 
 weapon? Too bad you can't -- once a reloading animation has begun, it has to run until completion 
 before you can switch weapons. All too often you'll die while reloading because the game won't 
 let you switch to a secondary weapon.           Keeping the swimming pool empty means they don't 
 have to render any water!    

  Multiplayer in New World Order is directly copied from Counter-Strike. Aside from standard team 
 deathmatch modes, there are also bomb planting missions and hostage rescue missions. You'll seldom 
 find anyone online playing retail New World Order, and even the game's many demo servers are utterly 
 empty.  

  Even at its $30 suggested retail price, New World Order is a poor value. It's a game that simply 
 attempts to cash in on the success of Counter-Strike and the Rainbow Six series by copying their 
 themes, but it ends up falling well short of the mark because of its terrible graphics engine, 
 its ill-conceived design, and a campaign that takes only a few hours to (nearly) complete. If you're 
 looking for a modestly-priced tactical shooter, you'd be much better served by picking up Line 
 of Sight: Vietnam, Deadly Dozen: Pacific Theater, or gold editions of Ghost Recon or Operation 
 Flashpoint.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Azghouls
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 4, 2008 4:49 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: 6 (needs patching otherwise this slumps to a dismal 2)
  Graphics: 7 (after patched up otherwise a 3)
  Sounds: 4
  Value: 6
  Tilt: 7 (basing on version 
 1.5)
  
  I think its just me however I seem to gravitate to those unknown types of 
 games in hope of striking gold; like a gold miner back in the 1800s when one yells gold 
 then everyone rushes to grab the spoils. Well my strike rate in hitting gold has been a mixed bag 
 hence I choose New World Order. This highly anticipated game was first developed 
 in the year 2000 then undergone many changes until the final copy was released in 2003. Yet the 
 final copy (and ironically so) was so riddled with bugs that the game can be deemed unplayable 
 until the final patch release to 1.5 (or eight patches later) .
  
  The premise of New World Order is a pretty standard tactical based shooter. Based in the near future, 
 the terrorist faction known as The Syndicate is causing havoc throughout the world. 
 These people are naturally highly organised posed to rule the world by the ways of sabotage, kidnapping 
 and destruction. In response to this, the current world powers formed an anti-terrorist group called 
 the Global Assault Team or G. A. T. which their aim is to stop these terrorist actions bysabotage, 
 kidnapping and destruction. Well I guess you can say fight fire with fire.
  
  Straight of the bat, the game will test your patience. It starts off sending you to meet your trainer 
 however the GAT office gets blown up by these terrorists and straight away you are in the thick 
 of things. I thought that was pretty cool as I was expecting a training facility and not meeting 
 face-to-face with some terrorist chumps.
  
  Also the beginning of the game you're presented with a very limited selection of weapons and ammunition 
 and weight plays a very important part as you cannot be the ultimate hulk and carry anything that 
 was dropped or selected. Every mission begins with a load out of what to expect in the form of 
 visual recon from satellite and as you gain experience (in the form of how accurate you are, how 
 much health remaining at the end of the mission and the amount of ammo wasted) the more weapons 
 you can unlock. I thought this is a fine incentive instead of just getting everything landed on 
 a silver platter so it pays to plan ahead than to go gun-ho.
  
  The entire game comprises of only twelve missions and the level itself is quite tiny. However dont 
 let that fool you as youll notice extremely quickly that there are no health packs anywhere 
 hence every shot will hurt and remember that being a tactical shooter all it takes is a couple 
 of hits before you fall to your death; and this of course goes with the enemies. Speaking of which, 
 each level can comprise of around eight to I think twenty terrorists therefore you are already 
 behind the eight ball. What makes matters worse the AI are totally unpredictable as some are a 
 complete imbecile and will run around in circles yet others will flank you from behind. Is this 
 a tactic they have employed I really dont know however it had fooled me many times.
  
  Depending on what version you have will determine the graphics. Considering that version 1.1 
 is absolutely not playable by any means (and I really mean that) the version I eventually settled 
 for was 1.5. That said, the graphics are not bad at all. There are the odd rendering and clipping 
 issues however its still playable; the landscapes looks dreary and war torn (as it should 
 be) and well thought out  that is expect graffiti, trash, uneven surface and even that odd 
 semi-naked ladies calendars yet some levels just look bland. The movement effect from you is very 
 cool as when you change weapons the screen will shake to reflect actual movements so expect some 
 real jittering actions. The enemies do look realistic but certain times duplicates appeared (twins 
 perhaps) and the way they die you can see their body twitch slightly before remaining deathly still.
 
  
  What I really liked was the lighting effects and the shadows it casts. The shadows renders in real 
 time hence you will see that your shadow comes and goes depending upon the way the light source 
 strikes you. This also plays an important part when trying to determine the whereabouts of your 
 enemies; however the buildings reflections remains static. Another cool feature was that 
 many FPS players complained about that floating arms syndrome however in New World 
 Order you can actually see your legs as well. This improves game play as you feel that you are 
 now a complete soldier.
  
  Similar to the graphics, the quality of sounds depends upon the version you have. Again basing 
 on version 1.5 I thought the sounds are average. There are absolutely no musical scores what-so-ever 
 (besides that lifeless sounds in the beginning) and the game itself is pretty much devoid of any 
 noise. I thought the only noticeable affects where the sounds of running men as this can be nerve-racking 
 as you are trying to determine exactly where the enemies are. The voice acting are also limited 
 so expect the occasional smoke him down chants or the profanities aiming directly 
 at you for killing his chumps. Yet the blood splatter does produce some nice cool effects and worth 
 investing a shotgun just to hear it again (and then watch the body twitch) .
  
  As mentioned before, the entire game only spans twelve smallish levels. An immediate thought that 
 this game will be over in a snap but this is a misconception as the maps are cleverly designed 
 so there are many entry/exit points to consider. For example you can enter the subway via a hole 
 left by a train, via a back way or simply via the main entrance; and this goes for all the maps 
 so even though that the maps are small in comparison the replay value is quite high. Sadly though 
 in the single player mode, once you have alert The Syndicate (and this goes equally the same with 
 silencers - go figure) expect almost the entire team will rush towards you; this means either a 
 quick death for you or pretty much  of the entire squad will fall down if your timing is right.
 
  
  As for the multiplayer aspect, I really couldnt comment on this as funny enough there are 
 no active servers to speak off. However looking through the options, I feel that it would be a 
 blast playing this on multiplayer as mentioned before the map designs are good enough to test your 
 patience and skills. Also there is an option to play the game in co-op mode and considering the 
 many entry points you can really act as an anti-terrorist squad. Oh well, I guess we can leave 
 this for other games like Vietcong.
  
  So on the surface this game may look like a complete joke; the many patches and the disappearance 
 of the company who created the game you will naturally assume this is one serious total write-off. 
 However if you do manage to spend some time digging a little deeper New World Order is not as bad 
 as initially portrayed. Yes there are flaws and patching up is an absolute necessary (like breathing 
 to survive) however like a book, dont judge this game by its cover; its actually 
 better than you realise and it's very cheap too! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
