-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Next Life
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/nextlife/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Initially fascinating &quot;What happens when we die?&quot; storyline.
 Great, artistic visuals.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Doesn't do enough with the ambitious plot idea.
 Slow pace and too many hoops to jump through when solving puzzles.
 Obnoxious pixel hunts are required to find key objects and exits.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec  3, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4.5
Critic Score: 5.9, 13 Review (s)
User Score: 4.9, 305 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: DreamCatcher Interactive
Genre: Adventure
Date:     Nov 20, 2007
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Tedious pace and annoying pixel hunts sabotage this surreal adventure. 

  Playing a lot of point-and-click adventures could prepare you for the afterlife if the premise 
 of Next Life is accurate. However, let's hope that it isn't because this traditional adventure 
 from Future Games wimps out when it comes to dealing with the "What happens after we die?" premise 
 and also manages to almost bore you to death in the process. While you start off fascinated with 
 the weird island on which you are marooned after the fiery death sequence that opens the proceedings, 
 you soon find yourself trudging through a very slow, very unoriginal adventure-game scavenger hunt. 

           You know, on second thought, maybe I'd rather be rotting in the ground.      

  It's 
 a shame that more isn't done with the story, a surreal tale about what happens to Adam Raichl after 
 his SUV apparently plows into a tanker truck and goes boom one dark night. The young man from Prague 
 doesn't wake up in a hospital or beside the pearly gates, however, but in a metal hut on a bleak 
 island, imprisoned there with other recently deceased people who have lived all over the globe 
 during different time periods. You're pretty much beaten over the head with the strangeness of 
 it all as the people you meet immediately launch into talk about how much trouble Nixon is going 
 to get into for Watergate, what it's like living under Brezhnev, and how work has been going lately 
 at the World Trade Center. But the visuals are fantastic at conveying the loneliness of the setting 
 and the grim facial features of your fellow castaways (you won't find much better character art 
 in an adventure game) , so the look of everything is more than enough to creep you out. Only the 
 voice acting is a little flat, and it's off just enough to deepen the sense of strangeness. Thick 
 European accents abound, giving the game an art-house ambiance that increases the dreamlike character 
 of your surroundings.  

  Weirdness slowly fades as you get immersed in playing Next Life, though, and you quickly find yourself 
 in just another adventure game. Traditional structure is the focus here, so you have to guide Adam 
 on a walking tour where you engage in linear conversations, collect random scraps of garbage, and 
 solve esoteric logic puzzles. Not that there's anything particularly wrong with all of this, as 
 fill-in-the-blanks chats, scavenger hunts, and logic puzzles have been the foundation of adventures 
 for a couple of decades now. But you can't help feeling let down here because the game trumpets 
 a philosophical examination of life after death in the beginning but then collapses into gathering 
 broken glass and wire like you're Sherlock Holmes in a junkyard.  

  The pace and overall fussiness of Next Life is also seriously aggravating. Much of the time you're 
 not allowed to figure out what you need to do by checking out the landscape and the tools at hand. 
 In the very beginning, for instance, it's elementary to deduce that the rocks, sticks, and dry 
 grass you pick up should be used to make a fire to burn away a log wedging a rock in a cave opening. 
 But you're not allowed to combine the objects in question unless you go back to your purgatory 
 pals and get tips about starting a fire. You endure this sort of unnecessary backtracking throughout 
 the entire game. One trip to a location is never good enough, and you often have to pick up numerous 
 types of certain objects. Don't stop at picking up just one stick when Adam can carry three! The 
 nightmare sections of the game also rely on confusing trial-and-error experimentation that can 
 see you die dozens of times. The construction site and car-accident sequences are particularly 
 crammed with tough problems that seem impossible to solve without fleeing to an online walkthrough. 

           Bizarre logic puzzles in the afterlife? Say it ain't so, Jesus.      

  Numerous little design flaws further emphasize the sleepy, frustrating nature of the game. Hot 
 spots are often so tiny that you have to hunt for pixels to find exits (you can at least hit the 
 "E" key to highlight these locations, but you shouldn't have to do this in every other scene) . 
 Key objects are also miniscule or shrouded in darkness to the point that some can't be seen on 
 the screen at all. Extra pauses accompany all of your actions, during which your access to the 
 cursor is locked out and you become a spectator. Whenever you direct Adam to move, he swivels slowly 
 in place and takes a second or two to get going. Similar hesitations occur every time Adam opens 
 his mouth: It's like he's always pausing to take a deep breath. There's a brief gap before he speaks 
 and a brief gap after he finishes his thought. The same thing occurs when he comments on picking 
 up an object. The whole game seems to be on a three-second time delay.  

  More profound treatments of the meaning of life can be found in fortune cookies than in Next Life. 
 Still, even if the game cops out and doesn't address the thoughtful questions that it raises, it 
 at least makes for a good sleep aid.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (15 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: paladin_1010
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 1, 2008 12:54 pm PT
Review:  I don't mind using walkthrough's anymore, because these games leave me with little patience as 
 I get older, but it was well worth completing the game, even if I had to cheat my way through :P
 
  
  I love adventure games and the stories are sometimes surprisingly good.
  
  Voice dialogue was somewhat humorous quite a bit of the time and wasn't that bad at all.
  
 
  What makes a game for me and most people is the story.
  
  Usually, a game gets spoiled by using a walkthrough, but not so much for this game or for these 
 really tough-to-complete adventure games, at least for me.
  
  If you are sick of boring games with a boring story, and would like something fresh in the storyline 
 senario, then I would suggest you picking up this game and Googling a Next Life walkthrough so 
 you can enjoy it... unless you love a challenge and have the patience to complete really tough puzzle 
 adventures. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: freudlacan
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 12, 2008 3:04 pm PT
Review:  I was looking for a game called reprobates to review it and then I found the USA version was called 
 just "Next life". Just that name change on the tittle ruins it, this is not "Next life" at all, 
 this is maybe a game that if was released in Japan would be adquired and perfected by konami and 
 called Silent Hill 0.5 or something. Even if it turns out to be something reaaaally differnt at 
 the beggining you fell like a silent hill taste into it.
  
  So if you are a fan of silent hill like games, without the fighting, go get this game.
  
  The 
 boring part of the game its going back and forth looking for a change to go on the game, but at 
 least you dont have to do pixel search that much, just grab rocks, sticks and grass anywere those 
 are your main tools.
  
  As for the history, well this is one of the best historys in a game Ive ever played, really original, 
 and surprising, its spoiled a little in the end, i guess they could do better adding more that 
 one really "selfish end" but in the mean time its a game really to be enyoied.
  
  Some easy puzzles now and then, not replayable, but as you can enyoy a good movie or a good book 
 you can also enyoy this game a lot if you are into good and dark historys. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Apekiller
Rating: 2.5
Date: May 29, 2008 5:20 pm PT
Review:  I am disappointed.
  
  Well, maybe it's because I had my expectations too high for this game. You see, I expected this 
 game to be... enjoyable and captivating, how all games should be, however it's just barely appealing.
 
  
  The widescreen implementation is terrible - with black bars on all sides. Yes, both vertical and 
 horizontal. This peculiar aspect affects the gameplay experience in a negative way (you will agree 
 once you actually see how bad it looks in widescreen) .
  
  Once you start the game you will undoubtedly notice that the terrible voice acting and ridiculous 
 dialogs are present in abundance within the game. Also, the spoken words do not even match the 
 text displayed on the screen on the screen at that time.
  
  After playing for some time you'll see that the riddles are extremely simple, thus being reduced 
 to just going from one place to another, back and forth - which is a very ponderous and boring 
 process. This is a design flaw, as the player wants to be part of the story and solve some puzzles, 
 not travel from place to place and wait for the character to reach various destinations, over and 
 over again.
  
  The game is all flash but no substance, despite all (dilettantish) efforts to make it an interesting 
 game. It has very nice graphics but that's about it. The story, puzzles, character movement, voice 
 acting, dialogs, etc are the game's downfall.
  
  PS: If you manage to play until you finish the first two days from the story, you'll find yourself 
 dealing with a very stupid puzzle (one which goes against the "adventure game" spirit, if you ask 
 me) . By this time you are probably very bored and will choose to uninstall the game.
  
  Fail.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: flover2006
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 3, 2008 10:38 pm PT
Review:  Next life in my opinion is an amazing title which seems interesting at first but the game mostly 
 disappoint you with low quality demos and boring atmosphere of it`s so called purgatory world which 
 is nothing but a remote island with a few characters in it. The pace of the game is slow and boring 
 but the visuals except for demos are not bad at all. The character models seem pretty good and 
 detailed. The puzzles are some how easy and predictable with some moments of sharp hot spot findings 
 but when the game enters the nightmares parts the puzzles are ridiculous with some boring and really 
 hand breaking !!! puzzles which needs mouse capabilities rather than thinking. After all the story 
 is somewhat interesting and have its twist but in total this one is just another medium rated adventure 
 game which tends to be a poor one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vahid_xbox_360
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 4, 2008 8:51 am PT
Review:  The game begins with a cut scene showing the main character, Adam Raichl, getting in his vehicle. 
 He is temporarily blinded by a white light but shakes it off and speeds down a dark road. Grabbing 
 a cell phone to tell someone he's on the way to them, he ignores a yield sign and runs into a gasoline 
 tanker truck. A big explosion occurs, and the next scene shows Adam unhurt but in a different location 
 entirely. This is where we gain control of Adam in this third person perspective game.
  
  Adam finds himself in a weather-beaten metal hut on a lovely island in the middle of nowhere. As 
 Adam, we explore our new surroundings and meet other people who don't have any idea why they are 
 on this strange island either. Each person has been in a horrific accident and has arrived at this 
 exotic locale unscathed. They come from different countries and different circumstances, and some 
 from different time periods as well. Adam has to interact with them all in an attempt to answer 
 why he is there and how he can leave the island to get on with his life. A motivating factor for 
 leaving is that everyone has nightmares on the island, and it becomes apparent that one's actions 
 in a dream may have very real consequences.
  
  The screens are static with no panning, though there is movement within them, with a seagull swooping 
 gracefully by or waves lapping at the shore. The 2.5D graphics are quite nice, and are greatly 
 enhanced by the excellent ambient sound. The wind whistles, seagulls caw, and rocks thrown into 
 the water make a satisfying splash. In a nightmare sequence, liquid falling on construction pipes 
 is well done and serves to make the atmosphere eerie. What little music there is in the game is 
 unobtrusive. 
  
  "I did not pay for a holiday in the Caribbean as far as I know." -- Next Life 
  
  There's a kind 
 of oddball charm to the main character's accented and stilted English, and I found him quite likable. 
 The varying accents of those he meets serve to enhance their somewhat stereotypical characters, 
 and good voice work makes them come to life. The excellent 3D character graphics made me feel like 
 I was meeting real individuals, each with strengths and flaws. From the kind-hearted American to 
 the womanizing German to the crafty Scot, I enjoyed the banter (although occasionally it didn't 
 make much sense) .
  
  There isn't as much dialog as I would have liked, but there is just enough to move the story along. 
 Adam often makes comments that give a clue to what your next action should be. On the other hand, 
 Adam sometimes makes comments that don't seem to apply to the situation in the least. Salty language 
 is sprinkled here and there. There is partial nudity in one scene, which I thought was tastefully 
 done and one toilet scene with accompanying toilet humor which I could have lived without.
  
  Somewhat less charming are the awkward subtitle translations. These are filled with incorrect 
 English and sometimes don't match the spoken word. This strangeness also appears on-screen when 
 identifying locations, which are named "under the hill," and "at the gap," and so on. 
  
  While on the topic of locations, it might be pertinent to divulge the fact that I always read the 
 game manual. Unfortunately, in games for review, I have the habit of reading it after I play the 
 game for the first time. This way I can judge if it is particularly helpful or innovative in some 
 way. If I had read the manual prior to playing Next Life, I would have had fewer hair-pulling moments. 
 Important to note in regard to this game is that the exits on the screen can be revealed by pressing 
 the "E" key on your keyboard. There are entirely too many pixel hunts already -- when picking up 
 inventory, for instance, and especially when accessing a climbing icon for negotiating difficult 
 terrain -- without adding to the equation.
  
  "Locked! Who would have thought so?"-Next Life
  
  Most of the puzzles consist of picking up 
 items that one might readily find in the surroundings and utilizing them to solve a puzzle (although 
 there is an exception or two) . Occasionally items need to be combined in inventory before they 
 can be used on-screen. Sometimes it is necessary to right-click an item in inventory to gain information 
 from it. While on the one hand it makes sense to use sticks and rocks on the island to gain your 
 objective, it becomes tedious to continue doing this over and over again. When puzzles were available 
 that used other components, they were significantly more interesting.
  
  The game is linear, and you may have to find a character and initiate a dialog before a puzzle 
 can be continued. The other characters do not stay in one place; considerable searching for them 
 may ensue. I liked this facet of the game, with the individuals going about their lives -- one 
 jogging, one trying to trap a bird, one ogling another. Each new day in this game world has the 
 camera angles changing, so you will have to reorient yourself to available locations.
  
  Sometimes an article is too large to fit into Adam's pocket (your inventory) , and has to be utilized 
 in that same screen. This can be problematic when nothing appears to be an item with which you 
 can interact, but that item only becomes active once you have climbed to a certain position by 
 way of the ascent icon (which in turn is not always easy to locate on the screen) .
  
  Adam can die by failing at some puzzles, but the game will automatically take you back to the sequence 
 before you made a mistake. It is still a very good idea to save often, because repeating these 
 sequences can be a long process, especially if there are cut scenes involved. Outside of cut scenes, 
 the game can be saved anywhere -- even in the middle of a puzzle. There are ample saves and it 
 is beneficial to make use of them.
  
  "A stamp collection would be more pleasant at this point."-Next Life
  
  However, in the midst 
 of this slowly emerging story, you are suddenly in one of Adam's nightmares and are facing a timed 
 arcade sequence without any explanation as to the objective or the rules of the game. There are 
 three of these sequences. I had to ask elsewhere for help with what I was supposed to do when I 
 encountered the first one. Once I understood it, I was able to complete it easily with my weak 
 hand on the keyboard.
  
  I have played many action-type games, so a pure adventure gamer may find this more difficult. But 
 stunningly, the second and the third such sequence were difficult for me to complete, and I had 
 to keep trying many times before I was successful. A bypass key or an automatic win after a certain 
 number of tries should have been implemented here. This almost certainly will be a game stopper 
 for some gamers who find that they are required to go from the point-and-click interface of the 
 main game to a keyboard arrow frenzy -- even if they haven't the ability or the inclination to 
 do so.
  
  After a failed attempt, you are returned to the beginning of the sequence. On the third such puzzle, 
 that return takes you to the beginning of a particularly long combination of exploration and inventory 
 acquisition and implementation with another timed aspect to it (although there is ample time to 
 successfully conclude that part once appropriate steps are taken) . Again, it is very important 
 to save often.
  
  There are at least two other times in the game when it is necessary to have a quick response, but 
 they don't differ from what you would find in many other adventure games. One of these quick reaction 
 sequences does require you to hide without indicating an icon to do so. 
  
  "I regret for the first time in my life that I am not Spiderman"-Next Life
  
  I experienced 
 no crashes or bugs with this game. There is a strange quirk, however, when on occasion the game 
 seems to pause as an action is initiated. In addition, twice my character had to stand in place 
 doing nothing until the storyline kicked in -- once in a cave and once toward the end of the game. 
 
  
  A double-click makes Adam go to the next screen more quickly. Given that there is no map for fast 
 travel and a lot of going back and forth between characters and locations, this is a welcome feature. 
 However, by having Adam "run" by double-clicking, you also reduce his stamina, which is reflected 
 in a bar at the top of the game screen. Usually this doesn't matter, but there are times when Adam 
 may announce that he is too tired to do a certain action. At that point he needs to drink water 
 or eat cookies.
  
  "A morgue? What's next? A cemetery and a crazy grave digger?"-Next Life
  
  This is an interesting 
 story with a twist. But I'm not sure gamers will get to that point due to the aforementioned pixel 
 hunting, the shock of going from a slow point-and-click pace to timed arcade sequences with keyboard 
 arrows, and other oddities. However, I enjoyed the story, especially getting to know the diverse, 
 life-like characters -- each with a unique, tragic tale.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1349_BLACK
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 30, 2007 4:13 pm PT
Review:  Hello, after two (2) days of playing Next Life i finally manage to finish the game. After playing 
 it i've readed the other game reviews here, and i was very disappointed. I like very much the GOOD 
 games, it doesn't matter what kind/tipe (adventure, fps, rts, etc...) when it's a good game it's 
 a good game!!
  
  I can say that the ones before me that rated this game, were not even close Adventure games lovers. 
 The game is great from the beginning till the ending, strong story-line, well placed puzzles.
 
  
  The game starts with some peoples on an island where strange things happens around. When you hear 
 the 3rd bell-ring of an old Church you and all others fall mysteriously to sleep, entering in a 
 "real" dream/nightmare where you kill each other for survival, and after that you wake again on 
 the mysterious island with no items on you. "they" steal the items from you every time you fall 
 asleep. I will not tell you more, because i want you to enjoy the game like i did :P
  
  p. s the game has an (and only) happy ending ;)
  
  A combined story of Lost and Silent Hill 
 in my opinion this game Next Life, and very successful too!!
  
  A must play game, the adventure gamers will love him.
  
  The only reason why i didn't rated 
 it with 10 was because i encountered some bugs in the game (it's a spot in the game "eastern cliff 
 on day- day1" if you enter, you can't get out, only with load game :) and the other letdown is 
 that you can only play with the default video more: 1024x768@32, AA at level 4 and Shader level 
 3) you can try to change them but for unknown reasons the setup don't save them... : ( and the game 
 graphics could been better.
  
  ALEX 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark_being
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 12, 2007 9:36 pm PT
Review:  I want to start by saying that the game "Next Life" is not for novice adventurers. If you don't 
 enjoy adventure games, this one will not change your mind and it will probably just make you hate 
 the genre even more.
  On the other hand, if you are an experienced adventurer, you might find that "Next Life" holds 
 a certain innocent charm.
  That been said - on to the review.
  
  What happens after you die? Is there an "After-Life"? What about a "Next Life"? If you've been 
 asking yourself these questions, then "Next Life" might be the game for you.
  Adam just woke up on a strange island, with no recollection on how he got there, or even where 
 "There" is. The last thing he can remember is a big truck smashing into his car. He soon finds 
 out that he isn't alone on the island; other people, all of them recently suffered from a "near 
 death experience", inhabit a small colony (10 cabins) along the coast line. The strange thing (well, 
 strange-est) is that none of them can agree on what date it is.
  You play as Adam, the "new guy" on the island, as you explore, chat, and collect sticks and stones 
 (mostly sticks and stones) in an attempt to piece together the big mystery  what the hell is going 
 on.
  
  The story arch is definitely the game's strong point. But there is more than just a nice story. 
 "Next Life" looks great for an adventure game, especially the characters. Every single one of them 
 (including Adam) is unique in looks and behavior, and even has its own expressions and gestures. 
 
  The backgrounds are detailed and diverse, and the cut-scenes are beautiful.
  
  Story and graphics are all fine and dandy, but what about the gameplay? Well, here is where the 
 game fumbles a bit. The gameplay is slow, even for an adventure game. Adam will take his sweet 
 time doing just about anything, be it walking, picking an object or climbing a ladder. Sure, you 
 can make him run by double tapping your mouse, but even when running, Adam is incredibly slow.
 
  Another very annoying aspect is the constant pixel-hunting. Every time you walk into a new level, 
 your best action is to scan it top to bottom with your mouse, in order to find all the hot spots 
 on the screen. None of the hot spots are obvious, or even highlighted. Most of the times I got 
 stuck in the game were because I missed a certain object along the way, and this can be a real 
 pain.
  
  The background music is pretty standard, when present, and does a good job at creating the mood 
 for every scene. The voices, on the other hand, are less than acceptable. Whoever wrote the dialog 
 is clearly not fluent in English, and there were times the subtitles and the spoken dialog did 
 not match, which can be confusing. Every character was a different voice, but a lot of the accents 
 sound alike; the only one that stood out was the Scottish accent of one of the characters, but 
 not because it sounded Scottish.
  I'd recommend "Next Life" to anyone who played a lot of other adventure games before, and can be 
 forgiving towards the flaws this genre tends to suffer from.
  If you've never played any adventure games in your life, or just plain hate them, keep your distance. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: c4xp
Rating: 2
Date: Dec 8, 2007 12:35 am PT
Review:  This game is to be played when you have nothing else to do... Most annoying... I think I will write 
 them an email.
  My only regret is that I can't continue from where I left off because of a damn timed puzzle.
 
  Maybe there will be a cheat some time soon, I hate leaving unfinished games.
  Or maybe a patch, for that matter ?! Service Pack even ...
  Hello ! The adventure company ? Is 
 there anyone there ?
  Games are supposed to be fun, not annoying. I really don't have the time for this madness.
  I 
 am officially mad, Arrrgghhh 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Caotico69
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 1, 2007 9:04 pm PT
Review:  The game has a very interesting plot and initial mystery, like the show Lost people on a island 
 appearing and desapairing all the sudden, having nightmares that you cant differ from real or not. 
 Also the last thing almost all remember is their own death, so, are they dead, alive or in between?. 
 have to be a braniak to solve some of the puzzle, to finally get to the awful truth, a bad ending, 
 with so many unsolved parts. Bad voice acting, some glitches, bugs and incoherent solving solutions 
 for some puzzle.
  
  I only went thought to get rid of the curiosity, but I was very disappointed on the ending. there 
 are only one and bad ending, no alternative ending.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dazzle999
Rating: 1.5
Date: Dec 1, 2007 8:39 am PT
Review:  just lame as the title said...
  the objectives are not clear... the puzzles are too hard or way too easy depending on were you are 
 in the game...
  overall the graphics are outdated 
  voice-acting is terrible... after all ur bases are belong to us this is the worst 
  storyline 
 is good but just worthless due too verry stupid puzzles and lame interactions...
  sometimes your stuck because of you didnt talk to 1 person ...
  and halfway the game there are 
 some terrible action thingies that really suck major balls...
  
  in other words really bad adventure game...
  wanna try a desent game try runaway 2 for ds or 
 pc brings back memory's to long gone sierra or lucasarts games
  
  iv played a whole lot of adventure's and this is the worst one yet...
  damn i love my scummvm 
 and really like those older ones even the new sam and max are way better than this brainfart of 
 a game... 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: eegotriip
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 28, 2007 2:02 pm PT
Review:  You would think a game with such promising graphics and depth, would have hired better actors. 
 
  
  The game starts out well enough UNTIL they begin talking. Now, I'm not going to review this step 
 by step and spoil anything for anyone else.. I'll let the game do that. 
  
  I give Next Life a 4 and I base it all on that because it is graphically pleasing. Otherwise, a 
 deep story is told with retched acting making the whole experience need a vomit bag by your side. 
 If you can make it through the whole game and look passed the camera blunders and voice acting 
 (and the acting during animation isn't that great either) , then good for you. I'll be at the game 
 store looking for a trade. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acid_tissue
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 27, 2007 9:37 pm PT
Review:  I'm able to run plenty of new PC games on my computer fine, but for some reason Next Life lags 
 the hell out of me. Even saving games or going to the menu skips/lags. The interface for the dialogue 
 and menu also looks extremely cheap.
  
  Feels like an amateur game. I've played low budget titles that look ten times better than this 
 (inventory is poorly designed as well) . Some of the buttons were also off screen for me, couldn't 
 fix it no matter how hard I tried.
  
  I'll agree with everyone else that gave this game a bad rating too, the main character has an accent. 
 I don't usually mind accents, but in this case it sort of added on to my irritation on how poorly 
 designed the game already is. The accent also just makes the voice acting feel ten times worse 
 than it already is.
  
  
  I'd rather replay Fahrenheit/Indigo Prophecy than spend another four hours with this game. Look 
 somewhere else for a good puzzle adventure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: waveddiamond
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 27, 2007 8:09 pm PT
Review:  well what can I say about Next Life, its boring once you get the hang of the the weird puzzles. 
 The beginning of the game is bogus, the main character dies in a really stupid accident, while 
 speaking real horrible english. I hope nobody is that stupid in real life. Interactions are basic 
 point and click, and puzzles can become irritating to the point that you will be playing this game 
 IN THE NEXT LIFE. The game is fairly short believe it or, as long as you are good a puzzle solving 
 and have the ability to understand the next sentence. "ma nae isa kirsk, I lie 2 buncy bal nici 
 2 me who". We;; thats about it for this game I suggest you play ghost in the sheets first at least 
 is a bit better, and if you are crazy enough to enjoy this game then ghost in the sheet is a must 
 play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Viper242
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 27, 2007 6:26 am PT
Review:  At first, this game seems to be interesting. You quickly figure out that your character Is dead ,and 
 is walking around some kinda "pit stop" to heaven or downstairs to the bar-b-q.
  Almost as fast as you start to like the concept, you notice that this game was made by a group 
 of people that sound like a foreign tourist that "speaka no english".
  The voice over are Awful!!!!! How awful you ask?? enough to delete this installment after about 
 10 to 15 minutes after playing.
  In short, if your a Point'n'click /Adventure/"when will telltale games buy the rights to Monkey 
 Island and make #5" fan, then look else where. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShinGnosis
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 26, 2007 5:46 am PT
Review:  This game had so much potential; it has great graphics and a fairly unique and interesting story, 
 however it's spoiled by:
  
  1. Timed puzzles, timed puzzles and adventure games don't match - period. This is because as a 
 player you not only have to find a solution to a problem, but you also have to figure out the solution 
 that the programmers were thinking about... And when you've replayed the same scenario for the 
 10th time you start to get slightly pissed...
  
  2. Ridicules situations. Let me give you an example; the main character is trapped in a car that's 
 about to be hit by a train. I don't know about you but I would tear off the seatbelt, smash any 
 window and just get the heck out of there. But instead our main character prefers to just sit there 
 complaining that the seat belt won't open waiting to die. For God's sake... just crawl under the 
 seatbelt or something....
  
  Let me give you own more; I spent 20 min figuring out the solution to a puzzle until I resorted 
 to a guide. Then it turns out there's a hidden frame with a workers helmet, that was essential 
 for solving the puzzle, that I didn't see. If I had been there in person I would have seen the 
 helmet plain as day, but here in the game I had to walk to the bottom corner of the screen in order 
 for it to magically shift to a new location that wasn't in any way previously indicated before, 
 ridiculous...
  
  Still not convinced? Let me give you one more then, later our main character find himself trapped 
 in car wreck that's on fire (how does he manage?) . Suddenly a completely illogical timed mini-puzzle 
 appears that I'm supposed to solve... Only  there's no explanation how to solve it and I can't 
 even figure out how to do it. So instead our "hero" is slowly roasted.... still trapped by the 
 same seatbelt as before... Jesus.... 
  
  3. The voice acting is one of the worst I've ever heard in game, ever.
  
  4. You awake more 
 than once to the same area, but on a new day. This is fine but every time you do so the camera 
 changes to a new angle for every location in the area. This may not seem like much but it makes 
 it hell to navigate the place since you have to re-learn where all the hot-spots are and how to 
 get where you want to go all the time. It's just plain annoying and adds absolutely nothing to 
 the game. 
  
  So yes - this game had a lot of potential but it's completely ruined by the above flaws, someone 
 at The Adventure Company didn't do their work here. Games are supposed to be fun to play, not frustrate 
 the players into wanting to hit something. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
