-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Nexus: The Jupiter Incident
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/nexus/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Gorgeous, high-end graphics.
 Intriguing plot.
 Everything a space game should be.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Stealth missions can be frustrating.
 Not too many playing multiplayer.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar  9, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.3
Critic Score: 7.6, 24 Review (s)
User Score: 8.7, 1,544 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: HD Interactive
Developer: Mithis/HD Inter.
Genre: Sci-Fi Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Feb 24, 2005
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Nexus is an exciting and gorgeous space combat game that should definitely appeal to sci-fi and 
 strategy fans. 

  Fans of the space game genre haven't had much to cheer about in recent years, but Nexus: The Jupiter 
 Incident is a game that any self-respecting space game fan needs to play. This gem of a space tactics 
 offering is everything that fans of the genre have been waiting for, as it takes gorgeous, next-generation 
 graphical technology and applies it to an exciting game about starship combat, rogue artificial 
 intelligences, galaxy-spanning wormholes, and more.  

          The Angelwing is your personal ship throughout most of the game, and it evolves considerably 
 under your command.     

  In Nexus, you play as Marcus Cromwell, an already legendary figure employed by SpaceTech, one of 
 the megacorporations that's colonized the galaxy. Put in charge of the frigate Stiletto, you must 
 patrol the far corners of the solar system while on the lookout for rival corporations. However, 
 that's just the tip of the iceberg regarding the plot, because before you know it, you'll be sucked 
 into a galaxy-wide war between alien races and a lost remnant of humanity.  

  At first, Nexus looks a bit like Homeworld and Homeworld II in that you control a starship or a 
 fleet of starships in interstellar combat. However, the key difference is that Nexus isn't a real-time 
 strategy game, so there are no resources to gather or units to build, much like there are in the 
 Homeworld games. That lets Nexus focus on its strength, which is starship combat that looks so 
 good it's literally cinematic in nature... from the way your shields glow when they absorb an incoming 
 energy beam to the manner in which a ship's thrusters fire to swing it about.  

  The control scheme is elegantly simple, once you figure it out, but that masks some of the game's 
 depth. To move or attack, simply select the ship you want, click on the corresponding action icon, 
 and then select your target. You'll then watch as your ship fires its thrusters to accomplish the 
 task. Using this control scheme, you can control a small fleet of ships and their accompanying 
 fighters and bombers easily. The game lets you pause at any time to issue orders or to simply swivel 
 and zoom the camera around to soak in the view.  

  There's quite a bit of tactical depth in missions, depending on your ship's loadout. If you're 
 armed with shield-draining devices, you can try to knock down an enemy's shield and then switch 
 to hull-battering weapons to finish him or her off. Or, if you have disabling weapons, you can 
 target specific components on a ship. That way, you can take out a ship's weapons, its shields, 
 its engines, and more. This is particularly helpful if you need to dispatch a boarding party of 
 commandos to search a vessel. Or, if you have a complement of fighters and gunboats on board, you 
 can launch them to protect your ship by targeting incoming fighters and missiles, or you can have 
 them assist you in taking down a target. There's a wealth of options at your disposal, and when 
 you multiply the number of ships in a battle, the action becomes even more cinematic to behold. 

  You also have a fair bit of energy management to think about, as all those weapons, shields, and 
 devices require a lot of power. Part of your job is to manage your ship's power, and you can boost 
 it to different systems, such as those for shields and weapons, at the cost of draining your energy 
 reserves. This is simply done by clicking on the various settings in the energy panel. And if you're 
 even more of a hands-on player, you have the ability to manually tinker to a greater detail by 
 opening up the ship's systems panel and moving sliders about, though you can easily make it through 
 the game without doing so.  

          Battles can be titanic as capital ships and fighters clash and lasers crisscross the dead 
 of space.     

  Though the 15-to-20-hour campaign is presented as a linear story, it does offer some strategic 
 depth between missions. You can outfit your ship with the latest weapons and devices; however, 
 you'll be limited by the number of resource points available to you. This means that you'll weigh 
 the trade-off between arming yourself with, say, shield-draining devices and device-disabling devices. 
 The former is useful in a no-holds-barred battle, while the latter can be used to cripple and disable 
 ships that you may need to seize. If anything, it's hard to know what you'll need until you play 
 the mission at least once to see what you're up against. As a result, it would be helpful if the 
 game would give you more of a clue as to what to expect beforehand.     

  A smattering of role-playing elements are found in Nexus as well. As you progress through the campaign, 
 you and your crews gain experience. And if you accomplish secondary objectives, you'll gain experience 
 faster. Every now and then, you can upgrade one of your character's three main attributes: combat, 
 engineering, and science. Combat makes your ship more effective in battle, whereas engineering 
 gives you more resource points between battles. Meanwhile, science lets you both scan objects faster 
 and detect enemies further.  

          You can outfit your ships with the latest weapons and equipment, depending on what's available 
 and how many resource points you have.     

  Part of the fun of going through the story is watching your ships become more powerful. When you're 
 in command of the Stiletto at the beginning of the game, you're at the controls of a ship you feel 
 humans could probably construct in a hundred years or so. However, once the plot takes off, you 
 find yourself taking command of the Angelwing, an alien vessel with the capabilities of a  Star 
 Trek  series craft. The differences between the Stiletto and the Angelwing are like night and day, 
 and they have effects on gameplay. At first, ship combat is almost stately and ponderous, almost 
 like  Master and Commander  in space. But by the end of the game, the combat is almost frantic, 
 as you try to keep up in huge battles against wickedly powerful foes armed with weapons you could 
 only dream about earlier.  

  Mission design is where Nexus stumbles a bit. There's a wide variety of missions, ranging from 
 stealth ones where you have to sneak up on a target, to knock-down, drag-out battle royals between 
 a dozen ships. The stealth missions are where you'll more than likely encounter some frustration, 
 as their general slow pace and stringent mission requirements will probably mandate that you play 
 them over and over until you can figure them out. A particularly difficult level involves you having 
 to navigate your ship through a gigantic asteroid cloud full of enemy sensors and patrols. You 
 do have a cloaking device. However, it can only be used for a few minutes at a time before it must 
 be recharged... and it won't help you if an enemy gets too close. This mission is difficult enough 
 to make you pull your hair out. There are other missions where it's just simply a matter of playing 
 and replaying them until you figure out what you're supposed to do. You can save the game during 
 a mission, but this often causes the mission to crash, so it's not something we recommend.  

  The multiplayer mode is fairly simple but also quite enjoyable, assuming you can find opponents 
 online. Nexus ships with the standard deathmatch and team deathmatch modes, along with the ability 
 to create a custom skirmish game. Depending on the server settings, each player can control a small 
 flotilla of ships, and the goal can be to get the most kills, get the most points, or be the last 
 person standing. However, the real challenge is trying to find opponents, as there are only a handful 
 of servers up at any given moment, because the game just doesn't have that large an audience.  
 

          When big shows blow up, they go in glorious fireballs that are almost blinding.     

 
  In terms of visuals, Nexus is easily the best-looking space game to date, and it's arguably one 
 of the better-looking games of the year thus far. It's a sumptuous graphical experience thanks 
 to the advanced Black Sun graphics engine. The game takes advantage of the latest DirectX 9 graphical 
 effects (you can force it to use DirectX 8.1 features if you have an older video card) , and it 
 looks good enough that you'll want to show it off to all your friends. The sound and voice acting 
 are also well done, though they're not quite as attention-grabbing as the graphics. Still, they 
 complement the action onscreen very nicely.  

  Nexus isn't perfect, but it's probably as close as space games are going to get for the forseeable 
 future, simply because the genre isn't what it used to be. Still, this is a game that will whet 
 the appetite of any sci-fi fan, as it depicts battles that were previously the domain of television 
 and motion pictures.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (38 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Cerebris
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 11, 2008 4:56 pm PT
Review:  Great game, lack of multiplayer support just a few months after release. I remember looking for 
 game demos for Sci-Fi games on a site once, seeing this, playing the demo, and looking for the 
 game in about 7 stores when I finally found it in some old place.
  
  Riddled with bugs, and glitches.
  
  Good community support.
  
  Great game, and massively 
 ambitious, but it just doesn't use the potential that it so obviously planned for.
  
  On the topic of acting, it is superb, though many believe the voices could have been given a bit 
 more of an extensive script, it does do very well for what it has.
  
  The in game cutscenes, cinematics, and of course galaxy map complete with true innovation, is a 
 great add also.
  
  I really wish this had been done better, or at least support was continued, but alas no such thing 
 has happened.
  
  Verdict: 8.0
  
  - Cere.
  
  P. S.
  
  I really hope that in the future, they actually make an expansion, but I heard that the designers 
 and company itself are no longer existant... a pity and a definite shame to say the least, but 
 here's to hoping. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LoneHusky
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 21, 2007 1:16 pm PT
Review:  Took me a while to realize I have not reviewed Nexus here, I did put a score on it but forgot the 
 other parts of saying my thoughts on this game.
  
  Nexus is a great space story, it has a deep and strong hook that will make players that like and 
 enjoy both space sci-fi and strategy games very pleased with the general gaming capabilities within 
 this 2 CD game package.
  
  As probably the reader has learned, one is "Marcus Cromwell" a figure whose heritage and own achievements 
 resulted in a near legendary status within the corporate world of the hopefully-not-so-distant 
 future, starting on a moderate yet extremely sleek looking ship he embarks on series of job in 
 order to help his career and the corporation he works for to become more powerful within the solar 
 system.
  
  Unfortunately as destiny has its hand the plans of humans are rarely important in the greater design 
 of things.
  
  Nexus is far more deep and more complex than just a space story, it embarks on a quest for the 
 survival of humanity itself as other creatures within the vastness of the universe show their interest 
 towards earth and humans and any other specie that stands on their path.
  
  He strongest point of Nexus are its visuals, effects, sounds and voices, while its weakest points 
 are multi-player, manual ship movement (tricky way to do but it can be done) and occasionally frame 
 rates slowdowns while playing video scenes between stages (No idea why it happened to me, but happened 
 always even other people never saw such slowdowns)
  
  I still fail to understand why people keep trying to compare Nexus to homeworld, homeworld 2 and 
 freelancer, all games are completely different in gameplay mechanics and even type of strategy 
 games, Nexus is not an RTS whereas homeworld is, much less close to freelancer which is a 1st person 
 shooter. Nexus is different because it actually doesn't treat you on X, Y, Z keeping your ships 
 on the X plane of an imaginary horizon, Nexus lets you move around all 3 coordinates without any 
 articular relevance to a single plane.
  
  All in all, Nexus is a great game, it could have been better yes, but for the money its a good 
 purchase, though the support website is lacking nexus is a classic sci fi for the fans of the genre.
 
  
  LT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MajinBuXL
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 12, 2007 11:39 am PT
Review:  I've played a lot of space sims. I played some good ones and not a whole lot of bad ones. I'm not 
 really picky when its up to space sims, or games in general. Though I tried, Nexus is just not 
 exactly what I was looking for.
  My first impression of the game was... oh wow this looks really neat, im gonna enjoy this... so 
 I got excited and got more and more into the game. I have to say the first few hours were really 
 glorious. Pretty deep storyline, awesome graphics, mysterious exploring, an epic battle here and 
 there.... but then? It got extremly ripetitive and VERY random.... You start out in the Solar system 
 which is becoming more and more populated by humans apparently but no one really ventures outside 
 its boundaries because we simply don't have the means to do that yet. Ok thats pheasable and pretty 
 cool in my opinion. But then why am I fighting on Beta Praxis and Omega Prime against a WHOLE, 
 and i repeat, a WHOLE bunch of different aliens that abruptly joined the storyline? What exactly 
 are we fighting them again? How did I get this ship exactly?
  It's like the game is lacking a linear story. Random stuff happens and you are always in the middle 
 of it for no reason. The game suffers from this because it started out so fun at the beginning 
 that it lost it's appeal. It got so repetitive and boring.
  You also have to redo your ship configurations every time you load your game since it apparently 
 loves you to have the crappy guns on your vessel every time. That also takes a long time since 
 you'll have to configure 3 or more ships at a time.
  Anyway, I would recommend the game if you are looking for some quick and easy fun. Maybe the game 
 would have been better if there was a quick battle option since there really is no connection between 
 actual gameplay. Oh well. Scratch one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Someguynamedjac
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 9, 2007 6:57 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best space battle sims i've ever played, it has the coolest looking ships out 
 of all space sims. The only down side is that this game is too short, there are only around 12 
 missions and the game is over. The other down sides include: Unable to produce ships - you get 
 what you start out with and fight til the end.
  No ground battle - everything is done in space
  You only get to control one race - humans. You 
 cannot control any other race in the game
  Spaceship thrusters sound like firewood cracking, and it gets really annoying. This is a very good 
 game, but it is one of those games where you just spend around 10 hours (thats how long it takes 
 to beat the game) , play through it once, and put it on your shelf and let it sit there for about 
 2 years until you feel like playing it again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mentat76
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 3, 2007 2:57 pm PT
Review:  We have a winner here. Exciting and ambitious, amazingly well designed interface and controls offer 
 a very promising game.
  
  This game is definitely designed for players like me who wants to be the commander of the ship 
 but not the pilot striving to kill all foes by himself. That is the beauty of this game. You give 
 the command and they act to fulfill. It is gorgeous to see engines bursting fire back of the ship 
 after giving the go order. Space battles are also very pleasing to watch as ships turn slowly and 
 engage each other, offering a calm controllable battle sequence.
  
  Upgradeable and customizable ships is always an attractive issue in such games and Nexus fulfills 
 this quite successfully. It offers players to construct strategies of their own both in customizing 
 their ships and selecting power distribution to various options (like shields, engine weapons and 
 even specific targets like hard points) during battles.
  
  Also I have to mention that other than ships flying in space, the tactical map is modeled magnificently, 
 a true beauty envelopes the player with advanced zoom-in &amp; zoom-out capabilities. You can cover 
 complete solar system and it is surely impressive.
  
  Sadly it is not a perfect game and Nexus, which strictly follows a linear story and often can be 
 annoying by frustrating and over difficult missions (the same mistake that homeworld has done) 
 . That can be the one and only flaw this game has. This flaw often leads to repeating missions 
 and eventually extreme boredom and leave no choice but to abandon the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Manxpotter
Rating: 7.6
Date: Mar 1, 2007 12:49 pm PT
Review:  I found the game slow to getting started, the first few mission help you get to grips with the 
 controls and hub displays in the game. The levels get progressively harder as you would expect 
 but some of the later mission can fell like they drag on a little. (This probably adds to the realism 
 of being in space I guess) .
  
  The aspect of the game which impressed me the most was the different camera angles and freedome 
 of movement the game offers. I enjoyed playing this game but if your after action and explosions, 
 this probably isn't the game for you. This is more for the specialist gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bloodinator
Rating: 5.6
Date: Jan 24, 2007 12:45 am PT
Review:  This is possibly the single most boring game I've ever played. There's a lot you can do during 
 battles, but very little of it makes any difference. You mostly just get to sit and watch as two 
 or more ships slowly rotate around each other firing weapons that do very little damage.
  
  On the plus side, the battles do look gorgeous, the game makes for better cinematic fights than 
 most games on the market. I have on occasion found myself loading it just to see a nifty looking 
 battle, but that may just be me trying desperately to get my money's worth out of the game. It 
 doesn't help much either that I got my hopes up when I heard it compared to Freelancer and Homeworld 
 2, both much better games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: commander515
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 14, 2006 9:55 pm PT
Review:  Nexus: The Jupiter Incident is a game unlike any I have ever played. It combines an original and 
 interesting story, compelling characters, diverse and highly detailed ship designs, gorgeous graphics 
 and cutscenes, a strong soundtrack, an innovative ship upgrade system, and more futuristic weapons 
 than you can blast a battlecruiser out of the sky with to create a very fun, very tense, very visceral 
 experience. Nexus starts off slowly, which is a blessing, because in all honesty, getting the hang 
 of controlling your ships can be downright tricky. Movement is primarily accomplished by ordering 
 a ship to move towards or away from another reference point in space, like another ship or an asteroid. 
 Fortunately, the ability to pause the game, and the fact that the interface is actually fairly 
 intuitive, make controlling even a single ship fairly easy, albeit sometimes time-consuming, since 
 you end up having alot of options to tinker with every few seconds or so. The combat in Nexus can 
 be hectic, since many of the later missions involve you maneuvering your battle squadron against 
 some downright enormous enemy fleets - and the fact that you'll have to manually order your ships 
 to switch between anti-shield and anti-hull weapons can get repetitious. Throw in the various power 
 management settings for your multiple ships and keeping an eye on their shield levels, and you'll 
 begin wishing you had four eyes and six hands. Nexus' difficulty level is pretty high, and not 
 just because of the second-by second management required. It's easy to lose a mission for any number 
 of reasons, particularly the escort missions. Although you'll get some fairly helpful instructions 
 from your crew members in-mission, its still a common occurrence to find yourself playing a particular 
 mission over and over again because one of your computer-controlled allies managed to get himself 
 blown to bits despite your best efforts. What's most unusual about the game is how chaotic the 
 battles can become, to the point that they never turn out the same way twice. Despite all your 
 efforts, one of your destroyers will somehow take the brunt of the enemy attack and go down in 
 a matter of seconds; play the mission again, and it doesn't get scratched. Or the tactic you used 
 the first time around gets you nowhere the second time. It can get downright annoying, but fortunately, 
 Nexus does such a good job of convincing you that you're the commander of a naval squadron, and 
 just looks so darn pretty besides, that most of the time it'll make you that much more determined 
 to win the next time. Despite the difficulty level and the attention to detail it requires, Nexus' 
 good points outshine the bad. The story is deep and compelling, and the races are all well-designed, 
 each with their own personality, shipstyle, and look. You'll encounter a wide variety of enemies 
 and allies during your campaign, and they all look and feel real and unique. Most of the voice 
 acting is quite good - even though the boastful Gorgs and whiny Vardrags will get on your nerves, 
 they still sound authentic. The main character, Captain Cromwell, comes across perfectly as the 
 determined, though haunted, fish-out-of-water hero. Most of Nexus' backstory is neatly laid out 
 in flashy, well-animated cinematics, with the rest of it coming in the form of Cromwell's personal 
 logs and mission briefings. Nexus also adds a few quasi-roleplaying elements to the mix as well, 
 as each one of your ships comes with its own captain, complete with profile, and your ships' crews 
 gain experience after each successful battle. As captains level up, they can improve their combat 
 skills, and crews that gain veterancy will perform better in battle. You'll also receive resource 
 points before every mission, which allows you to upgrade your ships with new engines, shields, 
 power generators, and weapons. Lose a ship in combat, however, and you'll have to replace it with 
 a stock model. Since Nexus also keeps track of how many crew members escape alive off a dying ship 
 as well, and adjusts the new ship's experience level accordingly, you may finding yourself getting 
 attached to your pet warships, even reloading a mission to complete it without losing any ships. 
 The only downside of the ship outfitting system is that resource points cannot be reclaimed once 
 spent, potentially stranding you with a poorly-balanced ship design. It's very possible to have 
 to start a mission over after finding out the hard way that you can't win with the current equipment 
 configuration. This makes frequent saving very important. Another plus is that Nexus looks and 
 sounds beautiful. Ships are highly detailed affairs, with glowing engine trails, bristling weapons 
 turrets that blast violently with energy, resplendent shield effects and realistic damage effects. 
 Alarms blare as combat rages, and the weapons sound loud and dangerous. The starkness of space 
 is reminiscent of the vast backgrounds seen in Homeworld, with stars, asteroids, nebulae, and vast, 
 shadowy planets. Looks aside, the true core of Nexus is its compelling gameplay. Unlike Homeworld, 
 there is no resource collecting or shipbuilding - this game is all about tactics. What you get 
 is what you get, and managing your ships down to the last detail is the only way to win. What Nexus 
 does unbelievably well is convey the realism and intensity of fleet-to-fleet space combat, making 
 you feel like a real squadron commander of the future. Its very addicting to just sit and watch 
 your cruisers trade broadsides with the enemy, making it somewhat disappointing that Nexus doesn't 
 have much going for it outside of the main campaign. Although the game comes with a fairly detailed 
 mission editor, a simple skirmish mode might've done more for people who lack the time and patience 
 to labor over crafting their own intricate battles. If you're the kind of person who enjoyed Bridge 
 Commander or Homeworld but was looking for something a little more elaborate in terms of space 
 combat, then Nexus is definitely for you. If you're any kind of tactician who likes a challenge, 
 or if you like any kind of simulation games, then you ought to give Nexus a try. Heck, any kind 
 of sci-fi fan with a knack for PC games is well-advised to check this game out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamestream
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 20, 2006 5:47 am PT
Review:  This game is so good that i could give anything for a expansion or a sequel.
  Homeworld is nothing compared to Nexus. One of major things that engulf you as you start playing 
 is a immerse storyline, which start very early in the game, when you control only 1 small space 
 ship.
  And then suddenly after few missions you get another space ship called angel , which is some kind 
 of alien prototype.
  Space combat is just awesome, shield effects are stunning... the whole gameplay gives you some 
 kind of cinematic feeling..
  the only 1 bad thing i have to say about this game is - do more games like this!
  as i don't 
 want it to end :)
  Surely is an EPIC!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Orion08
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 16, 2006 6:25 pm PT
Review:  Great game. Runs nicely. its an interesting space combat sim and i think alot of people just over 
 looked it b/c of all the big games that came out. I liked it alot . the only problem i saw was 
 the simplicity after a couple of missions. once you get a hold of the 3d envirment and camra controls 
 it gets a bit mundane. But the game play expience is worth the money. i think you can get sucked 
 into the story i know i did and i liked the tactical maps, they really helped me plan out the level. 
 Also the built in turt. was a huge help, it would have taken me much longer to learn the game if 
 that wasnt there 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slonor
Rating: 7.7
Date: Oct 30, 2006 9:32 pm PT
Review:  The title basically says it all. This game is a masterpiece when you play the campaign for the 
 first time. The ships are very detailed, can be given complex orders and allow for many strategies 
 to be implemented. You control from one to a number of ships. The ships each have devices, which 
 range from devices that control the shields, to devices that move and rotate the ship (engines) , 
 to the energy cells and the weapons that allow the ships to attack. The weapons come in three types: 
 anti-shield, anti-hull and anti-device. The only way to destroy a ship is to destroy its hull, 
 but before that can be done, the shields must be drained. That is where the first two weapon types 
 come in. Drain the shields and then destroy the hull. The lasers are special in that they cannot 
 damage the hull, but can penetrate and ignore the shields to destroy the devices, such as the guns 
 to make the ship harmless and the engines to make it unable to retreat. Ships can be so thoroughly 
 destroyed with simply the lasers that they will be unable to fire, move or even rotate. If a ship 
 is unable to rotate (requires engines) , even if it has working guns, it cannot position itself 
 to fire (guns are located on certain sides of the ship) , leaving it an easy target. All this without 
 even mentioning the squadrons of small ships that can be inside the larger ships, forming ships 
 to fire massive weapons to destroy massive shields, different crew members of the ships and a VERY 
 interesting plot. Not to mention the beautiful acting, voices and environments.
  
  Unfortunately, the game does have its problems. The missions are often difficult and can only be 
 completed if you follow step-by-step instructions, making the missions very linear, not to mention 
 the campaign. There is also no skirmish game, if I remember correctly, which greatly hurts the 
 game. If this game had the freedom of X3, it would have been simply amazing. Unfortunately, this 
 is another great concept that was kept from greatness because of the lack of freedom and re-playability. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: laureanSL
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 23, 2006 9:46 am PT
Review:  I started to play the game after finishing Homeworld 2 like most of you did and I'm sorry to say 
 I was disappointed and uninstalled it after the first missions.
  However in the light of recent recommendations I've decided to give it another try and found out 
 that overall it was a good game.
  
  I don't have the time to write a full review so I'll just mark out what sucked.
  
  Although 
 the game boasts a map of the Universe it does not give you enough freedom. In fact you're compelled 
 to advance from mission to mission only. The right approach should've been to make a bigger game 
 (diversity of events increased) with a couple of reachable continuous solar systems in which, apart 
 from the main line events, to have additional missions popping up while exploring an area of space 
 or taking up on some odd reports coming from a certain sector etc. Also this could've been a wonderful 
 opportunity to introduce some really awkward space phenomena, some bonus tech /weapons, an augmenting 
 commander status with a real impact on the game, not just a reason to throw up at the end of the 
 game.
  
  The active / passive sensor is really just cheap talk in this confined game.
  
  There is no choice system implemented in the game not to mention setting a navigation course 
 etc
  
  It took me half the game to realise that inside a mission you can move freely in the space using 
 Shift and mouse forward / backward for increasing / decreasing the distance.
  
  As customisable as it seems the configuration of a ship, there's no way to know what you will need 
 for the next mission. Except load again that is.
  
  The hungarian portraits of characters and the etimology is annoying at least. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Valherran
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 2, 2006 4:14 pm PT
Review:  Out of all the space combat games i have ever played, this was by far the best. The story line 
 was good, the gameplay was incredible and the fact that you can fully customize your ships before 
 every battle makes the game worth while!
  
  Gameplay wise, it takes a little while to learn all the controls and tricks this game has to offer, 
 i almost beat the game without thinking about the power outputs on the weapons, engines, and support. 
 Do not forget about those settings in game, they really turn the tides of all your battles!
  
  The story line was excellant, when it ended i was bummed, becuse there should be a sequal or 
 expansion to this game and i dont know if there will be one made.
  
  Multiplayer, i was dissapointed by the fact it did not have a fully customizable match, like a 
 skirmish, instead it has these scenarios which you had to play out, and only one of them you could 
 fight against the A. I., and the A. I. was too weak to stand up against me.
  
  Overall this game had more serious potential. i hope if HD Interactive ever reads this, i strongly 
 reccomend they make a sequal or and expansion to Nexus, and definantly add a skirmish mode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lucky2492
Rating: 8.4
Date: Sep 28, 2006 9:18 pm PT
Review:  I will not go into large detail about all the mechanics of this game but I will say that the combat 
 is amazing. The ability to customize your various ships is also very fun. You can custoimize them 
 with flak cannons to take out weapons, missles for the hull, various energy beams, etc. You can 
 also equip them with mini individual space fighters that you can actually see fly out of the doors 
 in the ship and will protect you and the fleet from incoming fighters or missles. The combat is 
 easy to command and use once you get used it but where the game really shines is the looks of the 
 game. The particle effects are great and ships don't just explode, they are obliterated. Damage 
 shows as the ships are bom barded in the way of scorch marks and mini explosions on the surface 
 of the ship, then eventually the cre wil evacuate then the ship will explode in a blinding burst 
 of light that fills up the screen. I (t is amazing to see it especially when large fleets are involved. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tOrchie
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 17, 2006 6:10 pm PT
Review:  First of all, let me say that I'm a big sci-fi and astronomy buff. Between the recent debate and 
 decision about what formally constitutes a planet, and all the hype surrounding the impending arrival 
 of Spore, I've been worked into a frenzy over the last few months. So, I've been looking for good 
 space-themed sci-fi games to tide me over for the coming months. I saw Nexus at a game store recently, 
 and based on the review here on Gamespot, I purchased it a couple days later. For the most part, 
 I have not been disappointed.
  
  The basic story of the game is that you play the role of Marcus Cromwell, a war hero that had gone 
 missing for some ten years before being recovered from hibernation in orbit around Mars. Your family 
 has a proud history of space exploration and combat, and your father disappeared trying to pass 
 through a wormhole with a colonization fleet. You start the game working for one of the handful 
 of megacorporations that basically run space travel in the solar system.
  
  Things progress fairly quickly, and that is one of the strengths of the game. You start out with 
 an unimpressive cruiser, but soon discover alien technology and a much cooler ship with lots of 
 neat abilities, which you control most of the game. You also pick up more support ships as the 
 game progresses, and more and greater powers with your primary vessel.
  
  The gameplay is pretty good, but not great. Often, it feels like you're just along for the ride 
 while things just happen. If you don't have the best assortment of weaponry (and trust me, there 
 are a lot of options) , battles can take forever to complete. Of course, you can always restart 
 missions, but this entails reconfiguring your weapon and device load-outs. Luckily, this is a mostly 
 smooth process, although I did find one thing that bothered me. Most ships come with somewhere 
 between a dozen and perhaps thirty hardpoints where all manner of weapons, engines, shields, and 
 miscellaneous devices can be attached. However, each hardpoint slot can only be used for certain 
 types of devices or weapons. The problem stems from the fact that some slots can be used for more 
 than one type of item.
  
  So, let's say you're going on a recon mission. You'll want to take that multi-use light weapon/scanner 
 slot and put a data scanner into it. But if you've already got a light weapon in that slot, you 
 can't move it to another dedicated light weapon slot. You have to get rid of it completely, and 
 you get no credit for having it. It just disappears. This is mildly frustrating, but you generally 
 have enough resource points that you can pretty much get what you'll want or need to complete a 
 mission.
  
  The battles themselves are pretty fun, but like I said, it doesn't always feel like you have that 
 many options. It's pretty much attack an enemy's shields, knock them out, attack their hull, rinse, 
 repeat. There are a variety of situations you'll encounter, however, such that you're not always 
 in a straight-up combat situation. This keeps things from getting too repetitive or dull.
  
  Of course, one of the great things about this game is the fact that even when you're just watching 
 battles unfold, you'll be pleased, because the game looks pretty great. The weapons all have distinctive 
 looks and effects, and when lots of stuff is happening simultaneously, things can get exciting. 
 Also, the sound effects are top notch, with a number of really odd sound effects for the weapons, 
 and also for the other bizarre occurrences you'll encounter while travelling the galaxy.
  
  Speaking of sound, the voice acting is surprisingly good. There is a lot of spoken dialogue between 
 and during missions, and thankfully, the actors are almost universally perfectly cast. I never 
 found myself wishing they would shut up. The variety of characters and their interactions create 
 a pretty good dramatic backdrop for the action. The only voices that seemed a little excessive 
 and over the top were one of the more violent alien races, but only just barely. Otherwise, the 
 sound was generally awesome.
  
  The game probably has limited replay value, since it's primarily one large campaign, and half the 
 fun is watching the plot unfold, although skirmishes could be entertaining, in theory. The only 
 issue is that, without a storyline to carry you along, battles might be a lot less compelling.
 
  
  Overall, Nexus: The Jupiter Incident is a really cool game. I particularly enjoy the fact that 
 it's set just a century in the future, and begins by showing how mankind has made progress with 
 space exploration, but maintains realism, evinced by the fact that you initial journey from Mars 
 to Jupiter takes approximately eight months. As new technologies and more advanced alien races 
 are encountered, however, the technology level jumps significantly. It all feels like a natural 
 progression, of course allowing for the sci-fi elements and the fact that you must suspend disbelief.
 
  
  Despite its minor flaws, I would recommend this game to anyone who's ever enjoyed any of the Wing 
 Commander games, or Freelancer, or even space RTS games like Homeworld or Star Wars: Empire at 
 War. It's somewhere in the middle, with a little for everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halokotorgod
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 22, 2006 1:09 am PT
Review:  in nexus you mainly play as marcus cromwell and are trying to save earth from its already happened 
 destruction from well giant metal balls along the way u get help from other captains and get some 
 of the coolest weapons and ships ive ever seen that put star wars and halo to shame and some of 
 the most unusual too that are almost laughable. (sorry for lack of commas and caps) the graphics 
 and gameplay are absoluetly specataclular I mean the jsut superb almost undescribebal and the game 
 play is really hard but you feel so great when u finally win and last the sound is pretty decent 
 it does havve a couple odd moments but over all is decent. I will recomend this to anyoen who had 
 loves strategy, star trek, star wars, adromeda, battlestar galactica, stargate sg1, atlantis, or 
 any other scifi and action elements. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fireball2888
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 4, 2006 8:13 am PT
Review:  It 's a pretty fun game- the only reason i didn't like it that much is because all there is only 
 Single-player, and i look for more multiplayer action. There is multiplayer, but NO ONE is ever 
 on it. The graphics are phoenomenal, and barely put any pressure on your system. The audio is alright, 
 there's not much to it. The gameplay overall is addicting and fun, not to mention very immersive. 
 When i bought the game, i was actually goign to buy Act of War, but then i noticed it was DVD and 
 not CD, so i bought this instead, and was a little dissapointed, but not much at all. The only 
 reason was because it was all Singleplayer, and i like games where you build stuff. Overall, i 
 give it a 8.7, i hope you enjoy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darthpathfinder
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 17, 2006 10:39 am PT
Review:  When i first seen this game on a PC mag i was impressd to say the least the way they spoke about 
 it and the way the pics looked i was looking forward to this game. Well time pased and the game 
 changed its name and even changed the way it was going to be played and i can tell you that i am 
 glad they did.
  
  Nexus is a bit like homeworld 1&2 but with none of the gathering or ship building. Now please do 
 not be shocked by this as it makes for a more action filled game.
  
  You start in a small ship with no sheilds and low tech weapons save for the long range nucs. As 
 time goes by you get a better ship and then get other ships that you can upgrade.
  
  This game is a must for fans of the homeworld games as it plays (the space combat) in the same 
 way sort of ;) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: akdoc
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 17, 2006 7:09 am PT
Review:  I bought this game after gamespots review of it being one of the best unplayed games of 2005 (or 
 something like that) .
  I looked forward to a good strategy space game. Last good one I recall was Imperium Galactica which 
 rocked! Although wasn't popular enough to ever get a quality second generation done.
  Nexus was neat in the beginning. The problem with it and many supposedly "strategy" games is that 
 it is just too cook-book. There is not much ability to do whatever you want. You just complete 
 a mission and move on. Very similar to the campaign modes in most other strategy games. However, 
 it lacks the whole freedom missions, take over the galaxy, etc.. That would have made it worthy. 
 It also doesn't give you much in the way of space ship creation. Sure it gives choices, but they 
 are common sense which ones to take and dont really seem to show a difference in the gameplay when 
 you have them.
  Had I known Galctic Civ II was due out in only a month or 2 I would surely have waited to get it. 
 It appears to be more what strategy space games should be, although it is turn based rather than 
 real-time.
  Nexus I got bored of before the 2nd to last mission, and have lost my taste of space games for 
 a while. Those still considering it at this point, I would only buy it if you were through everything 
 else that is out and dying for a change. Otherwise, save your money and buy a differnet game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: silicon_requiem
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 9, 2006 8:39 am PT
Review:  To begin, this game is absolutely amazing graphically. The star systems are well mapped astronomically, 
 and the ships are incredibly detailed. The galactic battles are stunning, lens flares abound, and 
 you can even see the individual blasts from weapons as they pound on your shield and hull. In terms 
 of gameplay, this is also a stunning game, as the AI is generally very intelligent, and the interface 
 is well planned and easy to learn, but difficult to master. You really do gain ability as you play, 
 which makes every level more rewarding than the last. The story line is also well written, and 
 the characters are professionally voiced and convincing. I won't say anything about the story itself, 
 but it is very rewarding and keeps you coming back for the next chapter. The game itself is long 
 enough to provide a very rewarding experience, without too much repetition. Although a lot of the 
 time you are simply engaging enemy ships with your ships, there are often extra puzzles to make 
 things smoother, and the very act of engaging fleet combat is intriguing and well staged. Its hard 
 to ask for a better game in terms of space fleet combat, and this is definitely one of the best 
 ever produced. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ninja8021
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 8, 2006 1:20 pm PT
Review:  This game has superior graphics. It uses the lastest graphic card. This space game has everything 
 expect a few flaws. 
  Can't take over citys, enter planets, travel on your own, and explore outer space or unknown area, 
 etc.
  The graphics are off the hook. How ever thought the graphics can get this good. The flaws which 
 was metion, has to be in this game to be good. I like the gameplay, but need a little of fixing. 
 Imagine, EVE ONLINE, X3 REUNION, and THIS GAME PUT TOGETHER. This game would be a masterpiece. 
 It would be cool to take over place, and control your own army, ciliviztion, etc. The space part, 
 whats up with the galaxy map? What a waste of space. You can't even use that map, to go and explore 
 that area, kill an enemy, and last of all I wish you can enter a planet. If this game has this 
 I don't know what to say. Overall the graphics are superb, and gameplay is cool, but if they had 
 what I said, this game would be the game of the year for sc-fi genre.
  
  Stealth Ninja- Martial arts of stealth technique. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StoicLeopard
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 5, 2006 8:42 am PT
Review:  A bit of mismatch of genres in my title but you get the idea. This is Homeworld with tactics; note 
 I said tactics not strategy. Homeworld was all about accruing a large enough fleet to do a bum 
 rush or near the end a "Oh my God, theres enough ships to blot out the obscenely large supernova 
 background" rush. In this game you will rarely have more than five ships so you make them count. 
 If you like planning things perfectly and chuckling while your enemies klaxons blare in distress 
 then this is the game for your Machiavellian heart. I personally like it but I understand how some 
 will not especially with its learning curve as to the best load out for your ships. The story is 
 somewhat odd, but I can not decide if it is due to translation or just plain oddness. The stealth 
 missions I could have done without, it is odd to play hide and go seek with a kilometer long ship. 
 The game looks great, you may need a higher end machine though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thundermare-pt
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 28, 2006 7:40 am PT
Review:  Gorgeous graphics, intense gameplay, just plain fun!
  
  While it may be a little hard during the first minutes, you'll quickly learn how to do it all in 
 no time. It's actually very simple to order spaceships around.
  
  Now as to the best tactics... that's not so simple. You either go with lasers to destroy the other 
 ship's sub-systems, or go with shield draining weapons. I prefer the last :)
  
  The story is present and is great to follow. The only real negative point was the last mission. 
 You'll know when you get there...
  
  It's beautiful, it's fun, it's great for space strategy fans! Thumbs up! :-D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yarrick22
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 11, 2006 3:00 pm PT
Review:  I had been following it from the day I heard about it and when it finaly made it up I was happy. 
 The only thing that is sad is that there isent any Sub-missions in the game so that you can build 
 up your ships Exp but it is not a big miss for the game. I am hoping for a follow up on it or atleast 
 some thing that is as good as Nexus, so it's thumbs up for the crew that made this on.
  I didnt find any problems with the game and the story had me nailed down in my chair and the ships 
 and effects where great and even after 2 years the game rock. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 666net
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 16, 2005 11:40 pm PT
Review:  in the generation of future technology games, Nexus: THe Jupiter Incident brings us the brand new 
 experience of spacecraft battle......
  
  The game is performed in RTS form, this time, you're not controlling hundreds of soilder like "StarCraft", 
 instead you have a few (maybe 10 is the max.) spacecrafts to control, which forces you to apply 
 more and more detailed control techniqe into the battle. If you're a real expert, you can even defeat 
 12 warship with 5 ships coporating very well. For example, you equip one of your ship with a lot 
 of shield overloading weapon, and one equiped with heavy weapon, then your enemy will soon turn 
 into a ball of fire. For more detailed control, you can even tell your crew about how much power 
 to which device.
  ie, if you're trying to flee, input all your energy to your engine. Bye foe!
  And one thing should 
 be mentioned, in the later period of game, you receive a powerful device called "SIEGE LASER", 
 which is the most powerful weapon in the game. with the device and cooling down beam released to 
 other two ships, you can shoot this weapon and "BANNG!" and goodbye to the Gorg's flagship.
  The failure.... of course the "Resource Point" system. Everytime you want to modify your ships' device, you 
 need something called "Resource Point". You earn this during the mission, but it is not a system 
 like money, so you can't repeat the mission and collect them! and since you can't sell your old 
 device for RP, and even repairing your ship needs RP, you'll find that hard to modify your ship 
 into a great battleship in 3-4 mission.
  Another failure..... NO ENGAGEMENT!!!
  
  Grraphic part..... no doubt you can't complain about graphic in this game ( just like you won't donate 
 money to Bill Gate) . YOu can zoom close to the hull to see its light, device firing, and even the 
 launch bay opens and release fighters... btw I was talking about the lowest graphic setting.
  
  Audio, not bad, but not many campaign has a shocking BGM like Halo.
  The sound effect of 
 weapons are quite good, but not much change even you upgrade your weapons.
  
  Conclusion? If you like RTS and space, play it.
  If you hate running your brain, don't even gaze 
 on it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redlar
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 15, 2005 11:33 pm PT
Review:  Nexus: The Jupiter Incident is a great space combat simulator, with great graphics, realistic physics, 
 and a surprisingly good storyline. I found that the controls do take a little getting used to, 
 but after you understand them, the game's as easy as pie. The graphics are top-notch and the framerates 
 are excellent, even on my Radeon 9600, and the sound effects do a great job of backing up the action; 
 though they do get a little annoying during the longer battles. 
  
  The musical score of Nexus could use some work. I felt that it was rather repetetive and boring 
 to listen to. Another problem with Nexus are the long battles. Sometimes, it seems like I could 
 go read The Lord of the Rings trilogy in the time it takes to break down an opponents shield.
 
  
  But those things are really minor annoyances to the overall expirience. The story is RPG-quality, 
 and as stated before, the graphics are great. If you can find it, you should buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UltramarineX
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 10, 2005 12:25 pm PT
Review:  I love giant space battles! Babylon 5, the last four seasons of Star Trek: Deep Space Nine, the 
 new Battlestar Galactica series, and all the Star Wars movies were chock full of giant space cruisers 
 and destroyers blowing the hell out of each other. This is one of the reasons I enjoyed playing 
 the Homeworld series, and why I also had a blast playing Nexus: The Jupiter Incident. 
  
  The story itself plays out like an epic space opera which builds itself up with many twists and 
 turns in its plot. You play as Marcus Cromwell, whose father disappeared after traveling through 
 a wormhole found in our solar system. Without spoiling too much of the story, eventually you too 
 will have to travel through that same wormhole and survive what lies beyond. 
  
  Graphically, the game looks phenomenal. You can tell the developers spent a lot of time in deciding 
 on the look and feel of Nexus. Each race in the game has intricately designed ships with their 
 own distinctive appearances and attributes. The background graphics are not just a simple "stars 
 on black space" motif, but instead use vibrant colours, high-resolution textures and excellent 
 lighting effects to ensure the game in no way looks "boring." 
  
  Nexus' gameplay centres around space battles between opposing ship fleets, and it is one that can 
 be both very simple and incredibly hard at the same time. Some missions can be very easy to complete, 
 while other missions (especially the later ones) can be excruciatingly hard. The control scheme 
 takes a little time to get used to, but it will become second nature once you get used to it. Ship-to-ship 
 combat is easily initiated by right-clicking on an enemy ship. Moreover, you can also target specific 
 components onboard enemy vessels such as their engines, shields, or weapon generators, which allow 
 you to plan your attacks strategically rather than just throwing everything you've got at the enemy. 
 
  
  In between missions you are also able to outfit your ships with new weapons, armor, and engines, 
 and with this option you can outfit specific ships under your command to perform different roles. 
 For example, one of your ships can be designed solely to take down an enemy vessel's shields, while 
 another can be used to obliterate their hull. My main complaint with the gameplay of Nexus is that, 
 unlike the Homeworld series, you cannot travel to any point on the map you wish, but only to the 
 various "nav-points" on the map. Also, this game is not for anybody who is impatient. It can take 
 some time for your ships to get to their destinations even with engine power maxed out, so prepare 
 to sink a fair bit of time into this game. However, these are only minor complaints which detract 
 little from the game itself. 
  
  Sound wise Nexus does a decent job as well. The game employs some subtle yet very moody music in 
 the background. The sound effects of engines firing, torpedo impacts, and laser blasts are done 
 well also. As for the voice acting, while many people thought the voice acting was bad, personally 
 I thought it was pretty good. Now obviously the actors are not going to win any Oscars, but what 
 they say and how they act is done well enough to convey how the characters feel and to advance 
 the plot. 
  
  In the end, Nexus may not be as high profile as some of the games released this year, but do not 
 let that fool you. Nexus is a highly enjoyable, rewarding experience and a great game particularly 
 if you like strategy games. I would even go as far as to say it is one of the first sleeper hits 
 of the year, so go out and give it a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pell1979
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 7, 2005 11:22 pm PT
Review:  Put simply this is the game Homeworld 2 SHOULD have been. Based in the year 2138 you are the prodigal 
 son of a Captain who lead the colony ship Noah through a wormhole, catapulting into an unknown 
 region of space, and is lost to Earth. Through a twist of fate you grow up fatherless and become 
 a war hero, given command of your own warship the 'Stilletto'.
  
  Space combat is very rich and compelling, keeping a "realistic" feel to it all. Humans have advanced 
 in technology but their best space drives still means a voyage to jupiter takes 8 months. Your 
 ships also have momentum so that when you issue a command to your ship you can see front mounted 
 thrusters firing to slow your ship down in order to perform a tight turn before bringing your main 
 rear engines to bear before firing in a flash of brilliant light.
  
  Ships can be outfitted with 4 different types of weapons - Laser (for knocking out enemy ships 
 devices) , Ballistic (for doing large amounts of general damage to the hull) , Energy (overloads 
 an enemy ships shields) , and Missile (limited ammunition but LOTS of damage) . You also have 2 types 
 of squadrons - Commandos (invade enemy ships or stations) and Fighters (useful for taking out enemy 
 missiles, fighters, or attacking a ships devices) .
  
  To fans of space combat I HIGHLY recommend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yoshi_Lover
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 2, 2005 11:13 am PT
Review:  This is a game that kinda never got noticed just like the homeworld series. Definatly think about 
 it before spending your money on this game. This is a very slow paced game and not all people enjoy 
 this kind of gameplay. I personally love this game I also play the Homeworld series and am a big 
 fan of the stratagy genre. If you enjoy ordering a fleet of ships around and having a realistic 
 (well what id expect from future space craft) experience then this is defiinatly for you. I say 
 check out the Homeworld series first and if you like that then take this one for a spin. Homworld 
 is a bit more action packed and allows more options. In the end i say find a demo and if you like 
 it buy it. For fans of this genre its a must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joewagner501
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 18, 2005 8:36 pm PT
Review:  I have to admit that I didn't expect a lot from this game. The reviews I read were all over the 
 board but once I started I found this game to be a lot of fun and the story line kept my hooked 
 the entire time. Excellent story and voice acting surprised me and made the game itself a lot of 
 fun to play. 
  
  The graphics were magnificient with beautiful colors especially during combat which could quickly 
 become so addictive the mission would be over before I was ready for it to end. 
  
  The game itself is a little short but that is how I like my games. I want to be able to learn the 
 game quickly with an intuitive interface (this game has it) and enjoy the gameplay without a lot 
 of distractions. I don't like games that go on forever and become repetitive. You won't have to 
 worry about that in this game. There is enough variety and each mission is different from the last. 
 None of them were too slow or too complicated. The pefect balance of fun and engrossing story.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarthRevan
Rating: 5.3
Date: Aug 16, 2005 12:27 am PT
Review:  
  First of all, I should mention a "showstopper" bug in the ship configuration part of the game that 
 stopped me from finishing the game. The ship configuration is based on a pool of resource points 
 that you can use to add/remove ship parts - weapons, engines etc. When you add a part, the cost 
 of the part is subtracted from your resource points. When you remove a part, the cost of the part 
 is added to your resource points. Unfortunately, when I removed a part, the resource points were 
 not added to the total. Eventually, I got to the point where I had no ship parts (engines, weapons 
 etc) and 0 points. There was no default or reset button to return the points. One would think that 
 the developing team would thoroughly test that part of the game or at least give a reset button 
 as there is no way to get further in the game if you screw up your configuration. 
  
  Here is my impressions of the game up through the 13th mission in the game:
  
  I played this 
 game immediately on the heels of finishing Homeworld 2 which is an incredible space strategy game. 
 I love space-based games and I've played Homeworld, Descent Freespace 1&2, TIE Fighter and the 
 Wing Commander series. Even before I ran into the bug, I found Nexus lacking in appeal in many 
 regards. The only 2 redeeming qualities that the game has running for it are the enigmatic story 
 and the graphics. The gameplay which is the most essential part of any game is slow-paced and I 
 always had the feeling that I was a spectator. I never had the impression that I was in "real" 
 control of the ships and I could change the tide of the battles. Perhaps, that can be attributed 
 to the lack of a good tutorial that explains the advanced ship functions of your ship. Also, the 
 game offers a substantial number of ship modifications but you can never really tell what each 
 one does or whether they're the right ones for the upcoming mission. You will have no choice but 
 to resort to the 11th commandment of "You shall save and reload whether you want to or not". This 
 game also made me realize the importance of sound in a game and it did so not through the lack 
 of such.
  
  Overall, Nexus is a disappointment and a great example of how a game that could have been good 
 to great can result in a mediocre, bug-ridden experience. The bug in the ship configurator, however, 
 is unacceptable and the score that I've given it is very generous.
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nsae_Comp
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 12, 2005 1:28 pm PT
Review:  Sci-Fi at it's finest!!!
  Great story, great deph, and definitely great space ships and BATTLES !!!
  
  What else could 
 you say...
  
  If you like Sci-Fi and Ship battles with cannons grumbling, engines roaring, beams zipping through 
 the space.
  
  And again, great story, great atmosphere, great feeling of space ships and battles, great feeling 
 of space...
  
  Just very, very detailed, made with love for Sci-Fi and very, very immersive!!!
  
  ---I repeat ---
 
  
  If you like Sci-Fi and Ship battles with cannons grumbling, engines roaring, beams zipping through 
 the space.
  
  And again, great story, great atmosphere, great feeling of space ships and battles, great feeling 
 of space...
  
  Just very, very detailed, made with love for Sci-Fi and very, very immersive!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowHawk
Rating: 10
Date: May 3, 2005 2:17 pm PT
Review:  Maybe game of the year is a bit far to jump seeing how 2005 is not even 1/2 over. And that it came 
 out last year in Europe. Anyways I digress. Game freaking rocks, simplest way to put it. Beautiful! 
 and I mean BE U TI FUL Game! The Black Sun game engine is quite a thing to behold which I hope 
 to see in other games (Nexus 2! Hint, Hint... Nudge Nudge...) The game play is responsive and quick, 
 and when your using a small ship, it really feels like it cause of how it response, compares to 
 the huge battlecruisers which take 30mins to turn or get somewhere but thats all good. I would 
 have like to see the Stilletto get more time in the game. But the Angle is truly an awesome ship. 
 Also the developers made the game very easy to mod and there is already a huge modding community 
 forming around this game. I give it 11 out of 10.. but seeing how I can only go up to 10. That's 
 what it will get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fatality4u
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 24, 2005 4:10 am PT
Review:  This new space strategy game developed by Mithis showcases the possibility of the future of space; 
 a time where space is not controlled by governments, but controlled by individual corporations 
 and which ever corporation has the most power controls space. You are Marcus Cromwell, son of the 
 first ever human born in space, and you are thrown into several conflicts that will test your ability 
 as a commander of a fleet and of an individual ship.
  
  The game will start off with the standard tutorial type missions, mainly introducing you into the 
 basic controls of the ship and the abilities that you have. As you progress through the campaign, 
 your experience will evolve as will your fleet. You will slowly be transformed from the captain 
 of a single vessel with low-tech weaponry and gadgets to the admiral of a fleet of ships with high-tech 
 weaponry and gadgets. As suggested previously you will have the opportunity to upgrade each one 
 of your ships with different technology. You will have to equip your ship with engines, shields, 
 generators, and of course weapons. As you progress you will have to start making wise decisions 
 as to which weapons to deploy on each ship and for each certain mission. You will also have the 
 capability of having fighters to escort and help your ships as you may need them in future missions. 
 Micromanagement will be the name of the game as you learn the tricks to how to defeat enemies. 
 You will be able to choose what type of weapons you want to use on a ship: tactical, anti-shield, 
 and destructive. You can even manage further by choosing which individual weapons to use on different 
 ships. 
  
  The game play is definitely the highlight of this game. Commanding a fleet of ships may seem like 
 a daunting task at first, but as you progress you will slowly be introduced into how to control 
 many ships with ease. Every mission presents a different challenge to be accomplished and the strategy 
 for doing the mission may change from time to time. The controls of the game are very well done. 
 If you are capable of using the controls that are presented to you, you will be able to decimate 
 any enemy that confronts you. The campaign takes about 15 hours of solid game play to finish. 15 
 hours of game play in this age of shorter and shorter games 15 hours seems like a lot of single 
 player game play. The only real problem with the game play is that the way to defeat enemies gets 
 rather dull and hum drum after you learn the trick to defeating them. Im not going to reveal the 
 trick, but it is rather obvious after a few fights. You will need to install the patch that has 
 been released in order to not encounter some of the bugs that have really hampered the game.
  
  The graphics in the game are exquisite. The regular game play graphics are incredible. As you 
 fire every single weapon you will see the trail of the laser weapons or the streak of a missile 
 screaming towards your target and even the trail of your engine. You will see the impact of that 
 weapon on either the shield of enemy vessel or see it explode on the hull of the ship with a fantastic 
 explosion. As you are able to destroy a ship you will be able to see the innards of the ship come 
 apart and once the ship can take no more internal damage you see a spectacular flash and after 
 that flash has subsided you will see parts of the ship strewn everywhere. Not only is the explosion 
 of the ship aesthetic, but also deadly as any ship without shields caught in the blast will get 
 damage or destroyed. The cut-scenes that are scene at pivotal points of the game are incredible. 
 They seem so realistic, and they really make sure that you pay attention because they explain some 
 pivotal parts of the storyline.
  
  The sound in this game is pretty good. The sounds of the weapons going off sounds as realistic 
 as I guess you think that they would be. After a while it will get annoying to hear the same sounds 
 over and over again, but you really cant mix that up so you cant really complain. The music that 
 is played during the moments in which you are not in the heat of battle is pretty good and put 
 you in the mood to play a game like this.
  
  The value of the game is definitely worth it. Even though the price right now is at 40 bucks it 
 is still worth every buck. The way that the game plays and the way the game looks make it definitely 
 worth the money. If you can download some mods to the game you will be able to create your own 
 missions and with the tools coming with the game. Bottom line: buy it now.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cvonsydow
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 24, 2005 2:06 am PT
Review:  The first thing you notice in this game is the beautiful graphics, and, while they may resemble 
 your favorite scenes from Babylon 5 or the new Battlestar Galactica series, the gameplay and simulation 
 elements more that back up the flashy visuals. This game has the tactical depth of a tradition 
 turn-based battle and the excitement of a large scale RTS skirmish thanks to a handy pause button 
 where you can take all the time you need to micromanage every weapons pod on every ship (if you 
 wanted to, but the AI generally does a good job of the small stuff) .
  
  All the components from traditional space games are included: shields, fighters, targeting of ship 
 components, energy management, ECM and ECCM, recon and stealth, boarding parties, custom-designed 
 ships, and even an experience system that levels-up crews and captains.
  
  The missions are fairly varied, and the storyline is original, if not a little slow at the beginning. 
 If I had one complaint with this game, it would be that the intuitive "command" system was a little 
 clunky. The ship AI generally takes care of the small details of maneuvering a capitol ship, and 
 all one has to do is issue general commands from a list at the bottom (along with a behavior, aka 
 aggressive, defensive, recon, etc) and the ship will act accordingly, however sometimes it will 
 seem 'confused' in certain situations and stall, especially when firing missiles.
  
  All in all, this is the game that space sim enthusiasts have been waiting to play ever since the 
 original play-by-email space conquering sims and the first Master of Orion were around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pisc99
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 14, 2005 10:40 pm PT
Review:  I must admit that I am a big fan of this type of games, but never the less, i will try to stay 
 objective.
  
  It passed some time since last 3D space strategy was released. This game it's self is very tense, with 
 phenomenal space battles, I really enjoyed it, and would refer it to any body who likes space strategies.
 
  
  And now something about game. 
  Principe of the game is a bit different than other strategies, because you don't have to gather 
 resources, you don't have to build nothing ,so all your energy is concentrated on space fights. 
 But never the less, this is a strategy. You will learn that first time you'll engage in some bigger 
 battle. But everything else, like maneuvering in space is common with all other space strategies.
 
  
  As I said, because you mainly fight, you have many features regarding that. Trough the game you 
 don't control more than a few ships, and because that you have a very wide range of commands with 
 which you can practically control every bit of your ships. From what weapon system to fire, and 
 in whit which rate, which damaged system to repair first, to which system to bring more or less 
 power. This concept was already seen in some older games, but in this it's brought to perfection. 
 
  
  Big space battles are very spectacular, but when you are fighting with less powerful enemy, fights 
 sometimes know to become boring, because when you target enemy system, you have to wait to destroy 
 them, and in some cases that takes some time. 
  But in that time you admire surrounding space , and see from up close how your ship is destroying 
 the enemies. You will not have the chance to do that in large battles, because they tend to be 
 very difficult, and you will have to be on top on everything. Enemy AI is average, they will always 
 try to disable you power and weapons systems, but i did'nt notice some special thing you have to 
 worry about. In main battles, the game will compensate poor AI with large attack fleet. Sometimes 
 you will have to fight with 4-5 ships against 20-30 ships, but of course that's the best fun.
 
  
  You have the pause button, and in the pause you can resign the commands. Graphic and sound are standard 
 quality, quit good, but nothing special.
  But intro to missions, is just phenomenal, and that's refereed to the map, where you are explained 
 what to do. Just awesome, and very nice to look at it.
  
  At the end of every mission you can upgrade you ships, with money you receive. When upgrading weapons 
 you must be very careful what to take, because wrong weapon choice can be a deadly mistake, even 
 to that level, you'll have to restart the mission because of that.
  
  Story is pretty strange, there is nothing really told with it. The game is very linear, and with 
 poor story, and because of that this is the worse segment in the game.
  
  Game is pretty hard, so if you don't have any experience in this kind of games, you will have a 
 hard time. Tutorial is build into the game, and through first few levels you learn how to play 
 the game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tanker
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 11, 2005 3:35 am PT
Review:  Nexus: TJI combines the very best aspects of role playing, RTS, and strategy gaming into a uniquely 
 wonderful gaming experience.
  
  Probably the best way to describe Nexus: TJI is 'Babylon 5' meets computer gaming. A mix of Homeworld 
 and Star Fleet Command is another apt analogy. You command anywhere from a single vessel to a sizable 
 fleet in an amazing amalgamation of RTS and tactical gaming. The gameplay, cinematics, and world 
 are similar to the look and feel of Babylon 5 including the Newtonian-based space combat. Yet 
 it also combines the best aspects of space combat in Battlestar Galactica (the new series) , Star 
 Wars, and Star Trek. Anyone with an interest in space combat will be very pleased with this 
 game.
  
  The graphics in the game are outstanding. The ship models are very well done but the 'space terrain' 
 you fight in is even better. Asteroids, planets, sun flares and more are marvelously rendered with 
 great lighting and shading. Sound is also well done. [Another reviewer mentioned no combat sounds 
 in space. Must have been a bug as I have great sounds of lasers, missiles, explosions, etc.] The 
 story is solid and interesting and offers more depth if you care to read the diary entries and 
 character bios. Voice acting throughout ranges from good to excellent.
  
  Gameplay starts with bits of the story and a mission briefing. You are then left at the Starmap 
 to outfit your ships, check on crew, read diary entries (more story plot) , and generally get yourself 
 ready for action. As an indicator of the overall quality of the game this section is almost a great 
 game in its own right. The Starmap lets you literally explore the Universe like an astronomer. 
 You can browse around solar systems and look at planets and moons. The game begins in our own solar 
 system so you'll have some familiar surroundings from which to start.
  
  Once you leave the Starmap and start your mission the main game begins. The game plays out in real-time 
 but you can pause the game to give orders at any moment. What is so unique is that the game blends 
 three levels of detail into an amazing and seamless whole. At the highest level it is similar to 
 a regular RTS game (without the resource gathering) where you can just command your units as you 
 would in Homeworld. But there is also another deeper level where you can exert direct control of 
 certain units and do things such as launch fighters, assign specific target points, dictate posture, 
 etc. Yet there is a third level to the game where you can dig one step deeper and take very detailed 
 control of certain units and assign energy distribution, repair systems, control detailed movement 
 orders, and much more. Best of all is that you can play the game successfully at the level YOU 
 enjoy most. On occasion you'll need to dig down (or with the larger battles back up) but mostly 
 you can play at the level of detail and control you enjoy. These multiple levels really set the 
 game apart from previous space combat games. You are not stuck at one level but can move up and 
 down in detail as appropriate.
  
  All of the various ship types (fighters, capital ships, alien ships) and actions (boarding actions, 
 energy management, and more) you would expect (and want) in this type of game are present. The 
 ability to pause the real-time action makes Nexus: TJI a great tactical combat game that rewards 
 sound tactics and understanding of your units strengths and weaknesses and not just an exercise 
 in how fast you can click. The AI is quite good and certainly doesn't do anything overtly foolish. 
 The games first couple of missions ease you into play and provide tutorial tips along the way. 
 This is almost enough to play the game but you'll be best served spending some time with the well 
 done manual as you it details some wonderful features not discussed in the in-game tips.
  
  The game interface is a study in elegance and efficiency. Most of it is immediately intuitive and 
 the rest easily digested after a read through the manual. There is an incredible amount of information 
 displayed in a clean, useful fashion that greatly adds to the enjoyment and atmosphere of the game. 
 You can easily command your ships, see ship status, and information on enemy ships. Many of your 
 actions can be assigned directly with the interface without the need to hunt around for particular 
 ships in the 3D display.
  
  A previous reviewer noted crash problems when saving the game. So far the game has been very stable 
 for me and runs just fine at high resolution with full effects.
  
  If all of that wasn't enough Nexus: The Jupiter Incident also includes Mod Tools that lets you 
 create not only new missions but whole new ships and solar systems! I have little doubt we will 
 see many player-created missions available on the Web. This feature gives Nexus: TJI incredible 
 play life. Considering the quality and depth of play I suspect we will see some of the best experiences 
 come from Mod created missions. With luck the designers will produce not only expansions but mission 
 and/or world packs as well.
  
  If you have any interest in sci-fi combat games or the space action in movies/series such as Babylon 
 5, Battlestar Galactica, Star Wars, or Star Trek you simply can't miss this game!
  --- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pitts
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 7, 2005 5:48 pm PT
Review:  Loading up the brilliant Nexus: The Jupiter Incident for the first time, I was hit by a wave of 
 nostalgia. Space games use to be the foundation of PC gaming, and I am glad to see them slowly 
 reemerge, especially if Nexus will be at all indicative of their quality and innovation.
  
  Graphically there is nothing to disappoint here. The graphic engine is truly beautiful, whether 
 it is showing weapon effects as you punish an enemy ship, fighters swarming around trying to shoot 
 down incoming ordnance, or the solar flare effect through a planets atmosphere. The simple map 
 phase of the game shown for briefings is such an incredible visual feast you might, as I did, spend 
 many a minute just looking at our virtual solar system in its graphical glory. It will certainly 
 remind you of the Stellar Cartography computers that have been shown in countless Sci-Fi films. 
 
  
  Sounds are a little different than most games because there simply arent many. It is odd at first 
 to see lasers and torpedoes firing and not have the assumed obligatory sound effects, but the developers 
 of Nexus went for realism, and choose to forgo space sound effects. The sound you do hear is very 
 well done, including the voice acting for the most part, but, realistic or not, I missed the weapon, 
 engine and explosion sound effects found in most other space games. 
  
  As a captain of a destroyer-class starship and eventually a fleet of such ships, Nexus plays much 
 differently than most space games that cast you as a fighter pilot. Since capital ships tend to 
 be slow-moving behemoths bristling with weapons and multi-layered defenses, it is a testament to 
 the game design that they made the combat so deep and action-packed, but didnt mislay the sense 
 that you were fighting with vessels hundreds of meters in length in the huge expanse of space. 
 
  
  The game is very deep, and requires some careful thought at times. Using what cover you can, or 
 setting your ship to stealth mode (not-radiating) can often help you get the jump on enemies. 
 You have full control of the power distribution, weapon systems, and even repairs on your ship, 
 and it is important to know your ship and her systems. Sometimes overcharging your weapon batteries 
 is crucial, at other times, keeping your engines going straight out is. In addition, you can customize 
 your weapon and equipment load out, and this can be the difference in victory or defeat. Laser 
 weapons, unlike most games, are used in Nexus for precision attacks, so are almost useless in doing 
 straight-out hull damage, but are crucial in disabling and destroying enemy subsystems. While missile 
 weapons have huge damage potential, they have limited ammo and difficulty in dealing with shields. 
 So it is important to have a varied arsenal with precision weapons, damage dealers, and anti-shield 
 weapons all vying for your limited space. While at the same time ensuring that your fighter craft, 
 shuttles, shields, engines, and power plants are also ready for any undertaking. 
  
  At first glance, the story seems ripped from every other stereotypical space genre, evil aliens, 
 the fate of Earth, a sentient A. I., etc. However, the story does quickly present some interesting 
 twists for the player, and ended up really getting me caught up in it. In addition, the designers 
 did an excellent job of keeping the mission structure fresh, and that will help pull you into the 
 universe they have created. While there are of course kill all the bad guys missions, there are 
 many more that have you performing escort duties, recon, search and rescue, infiltration, or even 
 using your ship to sneak up on an installation and launch your commandos shuttles while avoiding 
 counter-detection. 
  
  All in all Nexus: The Jupiter Incident is a refreshingly different game from the many prosaic titles 
 that seem to litter gaming store shelves these days. Granted, this game can be exceedingly difficult, 
 but an engrossing story and amazing presentation along with multiplayer features will keep you 
 coming back for more. Pick this one up and see how extraordinary a game can be when developers 
 give you both flash and substance. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
