-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: NFL GameDay 99
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sports/nflgameday99/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 25, 1998
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.1
Critic Score: 7.2, 11 Review (s)
User Score: 6.2, 15 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: 989 Sports
Genre: Football Sim
Date:     Aug 31, 1998
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
If 989 Studios can devote more attention to bringing the other areas of the game up to the level 
 that we see on the field, the dream of a totally complete football package might finally come true. 
 

 For PC football fans, it's become almost a given that you can't have impressive on-field action 
 and realistic league and simulation results in the same football simulation. Front Page Sports: 
 Football Pro? Great league management, a vast array of coaching options, and solid simulation results 
 - but anemic play on the gridiron. Madden NFL 98? Addictive gameplay and pulse-pounding drama on 
 the field - and merely average coaching and league-play features away from it.  

 NFL GameDay 99 is no exception. If you're looking for a simulation that lets you use real-life lineups, 
 create custom leagues, or launch a career that spans several seasons, you're out of luck here. 
 But if you're in search of the most realistic - and consequently most challenging - on-field play 
 you can find in a football simulation, GameDay 99 is at the head of the class.  

 There are lots of reasons for GameDay 99's success on the field, but the biggest is the artificial 
 intelligence (AI) programming of the computer-controlled opponents. If you think you can rip off 
 big chunks of yardage by running the same play over and over again, you've got another thing coming. 
 The defenses really do adjust to your play-calling tendencies, and gamers accustomed to steamrolling 
 even powerhouses like San Francisco and Green Bay in other action-oriented games will be a little 
 miffed to learn that it's just not gonna happen here. Your only hope for scoring success in GameDay 
 99 is the same as in the NFL: Establish a balanced attack and stick with it as long as possible. 

 And the AI doesn't slack up when a computer-controlled team gets the ball. Play against Detroit, 
 for instance, and you might see Barry Sanders and fullback Tommy Vardell run for three nice gains 
 in a row - but stack the line with eight men to jam up the ground game, and you'll probably see 
 Herman Moore blowing by the single coverage and hauling in a TD pass. Thankfully, the graphics 
 are up to the task of bringing all this to life: You'll need a 3D accelerator to play GameDay 99, 
 but with a 3Dfx chipset and a fast (200MHz or faster) PC, you'll see some of the best animations 
 and graphics ever to grace a football sim.  

 Controlling the players can be a little frustrating at first, but at least it's because so many 
 different actions are available. Besides the usual moves such as jumping, catching, spinning, and 
 diving, you can also lateral the ball, make a one-handed catch, use a stiff arm (a "swim" move 
 on defense) , and even high step to elude a diving tackler. Actually, there are so many moves that 
 I don't know of a gamepad that could accommodate them all. But there's still a lot you can do with 
 an eight-button controller like a Gravis GrIP, and it's nice that all the special moves were included. 

 The play-by-play by Dick Enberg and color commentary by Phil Simms sound impressively accurate at 
 first, but after a few plays you'll hear the same comments over and over. What's more, the commentary 
 only focuses on the last play that was run: After three consecutive running plays for eight yards 
 or more, for example, Phil Simms will make a statement like "The offensive line isn't getting the 
 job done" if the fourth play ends with no gain.  

 Turn off the play-by-play and take control for an exhibition game or two, though, and you might 
 start thinking this is the game we football fans have been waiting for. Well, don't get too excited, 
 because many of the other facets of NFL GameDay 99 are as weak as the play on the field is strong. 

 Take season play, for instance. The games here aren't being truly simulated; instead, GameDay 99 
 is merely "rolling the dice" based on the statistical strengths of each team and using the results 
 to generate scores and stats. Fortunately, the outcomes seem to be pretty accurate, although passing 
 yardage seems considerably lower in GameDay 99 than in real life (around 50 yards less per side 
 on average) .  

 But that's about the only good news for season play. Injuries appear to be mix-and-match affairs 
 - players can be out for two weeks with leg cramps, 13 weeks with a bruised thigh, or ten weeks 
 with a concussion. Come on - if a guy is out ten weeks with a concussion, he's either retired or 
 in a coma, and if someone had leg cramps so bad he had to miss two games, he'd probably have to 
 undergo an amputation. There's no way to generate a custom league or schedule; the single-year, 
 six-round draft uses veterans, not rookies, and strips you of key players and forces you to draft 
 them; and you can't correct errors in position for any roster other than your own (more on that 
 later) . Shorten a season game to less than 15 minutes per quarter so you can finish it more easily 
 in one sitting, and you'll find that the 14 other games simulated by the computer for that week 
 of play were 60 minutes long.  

 That last bit doesn't sound too crucial - just play 15-minute quarters and save the game if you 
 have to quit before it's over. But in a true slap in the face to PC gamers, GameDay 99 doesn't 
 feature an in-game save feature. I'm getting sick of developers creating cross-platform titles 
 and not bothering to include something as rudimentary as an in-game save for the PC version, especially 
 in a football game - there's absolutely no justification for not being able to save whenever you 
 like.  

 The list of other missing features - many pretty standard fare at this point in the development 
 of football sims - is extensive. There's no option to adjust music volume, no player names on jerseys, 
 and no way for two players to control two teams through the course of the same season. If you adjusted 
 graphic settings for performance reasons, you'll have to do it again for a new season. And in another 
 example of laziness in porting the game to the PC, gamepad users must assign the pause command 
 to a button in order to call a timeout at the line of scrimmage - a real waste, considering you 
 could use that button for one of those fancy moves if the game would just recognize the keyboard 
 as well as the pad.  

 Then there are the rosters. I like to set the rosters in a football sim to match their real-life 
 counterparts, but in GameDay 99 it's simply impossible. Although the README file that comes with 
 the version 1.1 patch says the rosters were updated as of August 31, that's only true when you're 
 playing season games: the exhibition rosters remained severely out of date.  

 But even the season rosters aren't kosher, because special team assignments have been completely 
 bungled. Marquee players like Keyshawn Johnson, Chris Carter, Terrell Davis, Curtis Martin, and 
 many other stars are assigned to kick coverage by default - and there's no way anyone would chance 
 injuring a key player by having them cover kicks. Kick returners are similarly botched, with default 
 settings that have fullbacks returning kickoffs and defensive backs bringing back punts.   

 I've already mentioned that you can't alter any lineups other than your own, so there goes any 
 chance of simulating a real-life matchup in GameDay 99. But at least you can easily correct player 
 assignments for your own team, right? Once again, the answer is no. GameDay 99 doesn't use a real 
 depth chart, which has assignments for kickoff returner and punt returner. The only way to change 
 who plays on special teams before a game is to change their position on the roster. But that's 
 not practical: To have the Ravens' speedster Jermaine Lewis return punts, for example, you'd have 
 to make him play defensive back (he's a wide receiver) . And to relieve Terrel Davis of kick-coverage 
 duties permanently, you'd have to make someone else the starting halfback.  

 The other method is to change assignments by formation after the game has started, but it's extremely 
 tedious, and the changes only last during that game - and as insane as it sounds, you can't change 
 the punt return lineup at all once a game starts. The sad part of all this is that there'd be no 
 problem whatsoever if 989 Studios had bothered to see who handles these chores (the info is easily 
 available) , included a true depth chart, or let you make position assignments before game time. 

 GameDay 99 features the usual suite of multiplayer options - modem, serial, IPX, and TCP/IP connections 
 are supported - and 989 Studios also hosts a matching service called 989Studios. net. To have any 
 hope of controlling players while online, though, you'll need an extremely low-latency Internet 
 connection; my guess is that 250 milliseconds would be the maximum latency for relatively smooth 
 play. Unfortunately, the chat client lags severely whenever anything happens online, so you'll 
 find it nearly impossible to type a full sentence while in the lobby without seeing extra spaces 
 and transposed letters.  

 With NFL GameDay 99, 989 Studios managed to overcome one of the biggest obstacles facing developers 
 of football sims: creating AI routines that not only result in computer-controlled teams playing 
 like their real-life counterparts, but that also force the user to play in a realistic style as 
 well. If 989 Studios can devote more attention to bringing the other areas of the game up to the 
 level that we see on the field, the dream of a totally complete football package might finally 
 come true.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (0 Reviews)
-------------------------------------------------
