-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: NFL Head Coach
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sports/nflheadcoach/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Dozens of hours of gameplay to be found in the career mode.
 a solid, easy-to-navigate interface.
 good use of the Madden engine for on-field action.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Heavy emphasis on micromanagement is going to drive some people crazy.
 on-field artificial intelligence gets wonky in spots.
 motivation component is entirely unpredictable.
 multiplayer is not fun.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 22, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.2
Critic Score: 6.2, 13 Review (s)
User Score: 7.0, 234 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Sports
Developer: EA Tiburon
Genre: Football Management
Date:     Jun 19, 2006
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Its laborious pacing and artificial-intelligence issues not withstanding, NFL Head Coach is a worthwhile 
 first attempt at a football-management simulation. 

  Sports-management simulations aren't exactly a hot item among North American audiences these days. 
 Some of the more dedicated sports fans have taken to any of the assorted menu-based managers available 
 for the PC, and in Europe, multiple publishers have turned their popular soccer franchises into 
 successful management simulations on both the PC and consoles, but over here, most fans have been 
 satisfied with a new franchise mode in Madden every year, and little else. Of course, hardcore 
 fans aren't necessarily satiated by such casual fare, and now EA is out to prove it can play the 
 management game, too, in NFL Head Coach, a deep, involving management sim that puts you in charge 
 of practically every aspect of a team's operation. From the off-season to the Super Bowl, you'll 
 be dictating everything from practice schedules to contract negotiations, and you can even call 
 the plays in an on-field simulation using the Madden engine. While all of this sounds wonderful 
 on paper, Head Coach isn't quite a smashing success. Too little freedom and too much busywork often 
 combine to make the flow of the game overly sluggish, and the on-field action isn't nearly as exciting 
 or enjoyable as you'd hope. Still, there's a good, solid foundation for a better future rooted 
 in Head Coach's design, and as a first stab at the genre, it gets more right than it does wrong. 

          Finally, the armchair coach in all of us is given its chance to shine in NFL Head Coach. 
     

  While it would have been easy for EA to simply take its existing franchise-mode model from Madden, 
 beef up a few aspects, and shove it onto retail shelves, NFL Head Coach isn't that. This is a franchise 
 mode on serious performance enhancers -- the kinds that lead to a major step-up in athletic ability 
 but also harbor a few ill side effects. One thing to make clear from the get-go is that this is 
 not a game for casual Madden fans. If you're the kind of casual-minded player that prefers to skip 
 through most of the menu-based tasks of a Madden franchise mode and doesn't have a ton of patience 
 for busywork, then you're going to find yourself frequently frustrated and annoyed with Head Coach's 
 slavish dedication toward micromanagement. But if you're the type that can't get enough of the 
 management mindset and loves to be the brains behind the brawn, no matter how much micromanagement 
 might be involved, then NFL Head Coach is the kind of game that should be right up your alley. 

  You begin the game's career mode by building your very own coach. The premise here is that you're 
 either the offensive or defensive coordinator of the Super Bowl-winning Pittsburgh Steelers, and 
 now you're a hot commodity on the head-coach market. You simply pick your favorite team, and you'll 
 soon find yourself entertaining offers from that team, as well as several others. You'll also get 
 to play dress-up with your coach, albeit in a somewhat limited fashion. There isn't a ton of difference 
 in the physical and facial attributes available, but you can certainly dress him up in some snazzy, 
 team-colored sweat suits or a Tom Landry hat.  

  The only "free" time you get in the game is during some brief office-hour periods each day. Unfortunately, 
 there's not much you can do here. You can only sign players during a designated "sign players" 
 appointment. The same goes for designing plays, calling up potential coach hires, and just about 
 everything else that isn't checking your e-mail, reading brief news bits from around the league 
 on NFL. com, or managing your depth chart. And even depth-chart management is too tightly regimented 
 here. You only get time for two specific tasks during these free periods, and each single move 
 on your depth chart counts as one of the tasks. So if you want to assign three players to the first 
 team before the next day's practice, you aren't going to have enough time to move them all. How 
 silly is that?  

  Inflexibility aside, the sheer amount of stuff you can do in Head Coach is enough to make your 
 head spin -- at least at first. As a coach, you don't just show up on game day and call the plays. 
 Between every game, you'll schedule a myriad of practices, from simple one-on-one, noncontact drills, 
 to full-on 11-on-11 contact runs. You get 10 reps per practice section, and you can send any combination 
 of first-, second-, or third-string offensive and defensive squads onto the field. The more you 
 practice up individual players, the higher their attributes will go. No player in the game stays 
 at his max potential at all times, and only by giving players a healthy dose of practice-field 
 time can you get them to where they should be. It's not an exact science, mind you. Sometimes, 
 no matter how much you put a player on the practice field, his attribute ratings just won't rise 
 much, and he'll inexplicably start stinking it up on the field. It is mentioned early on that some 
 players just don't jibe as well in a specific offensive or defensive system, but there's no particularly 
 great way to gauge that, and mostly, the attribute rises and falls seem more random than that. 

          On-the-field action is relegated to you calling the plays, and the artificial intelligence 
 executing them for you (usually) .     

  Another interesting, but even more unpredictable, component is strategy and motivation. During 
 practices and games, you can talk to groups of players or individual players on the sidelines. 
 If you feel a player is doing something specifically wrong, you can tell him to take on a different 
 strategy. If your QB, for example, is too often tossing the ball wildly to avoid taking a sack, 
 you can instruct him to protect the ball and not try and force plays that aren't there. The player 
 artificial intelligence certainly takes this to heart, though sometimes almost to a fault. Fortunately, 
 it's easy enough to cancel that advice when it's not benefiting your team.  

  Outside of strategy, you can try and motivate your players by saying one of two things to them. 
 Each phrase has a different tone, either aggressive or passive. Different players respond differently 
 to different styles of coaching -- unfortunately, there's no predictability or measurement of which 
 method ought to work, given the situation. Sometimes yelling at a QB that just threw an abysmal 
 interception will get them on the right track, and sometimes doing the exact same thing at a different 
 time to the same QB will provide a negative reaction. Likewise, there are some phrases that seem 
 like they never should get a negative reaction but do. Why would a running back that just broke 
 a 70-yard rush for a touchdown get pissed when you encourage him and tell him he's doing a great 
 job on the field? In some respects, it's almost a surer bet to just not try and motivate your players, 
 and that's certainly not the methodology of a successful real-life coach.     

  Perhaps the most frustrating thing of all in NFL Head Coach is that you are entirely at the mercy 
 of the artificial intelligence when playing a game. You can instruct players prior to the snap 
 to call audibles, do formation shifts, and set in motion -- but that's the extent of your control 
 on the field beyond play calling and strategizing. In most situations, the AI does a fully competent 
 job of playing the game of football that you call. But for some reason, the quarterback AI has 
 a tendency to get stupid at the most random times. You could be playing with a fully practiced-up 
 Peyton Manning, and he'll still throw some really bizarre interceptions at the most inopportune 
 times. So you can only imagine what happens when you try to play with a Rex Grossman or Aaron Brooks. 
 Also, there are some plays that just don't seem to work right. Screen passes to halfbacks and wide 
 receivers almost never result in the QB passing to the right receiver to set up the screen, and 
 deep crossing routes often result in a whole lot of players bunching-up, which leads to passes 
 being thrown well ahead of where the receiver actually is.  

          Talking with and motivating your coaching staff and players is a key component of the gameplay -- and 
 also a rather random one.     

  But with all of this said, NFL Head Coach really can be a fun and addicting game. A lot of this 
 is thanks to the sheer volume of available tasks in the game. You really do get the sense that 
 you're in control of every aspect of a team's business (despite your inability to dictate your 
 own schedule in a freer manner) , and the amount of time it will take you to get through all of 
 these tasks is staggering. Simming as little as possible, it took us around 20 hours to get through 
 our  first full season . Granted, some of that time was due to the generally slow navigation from 
 task to task (especially on the PlayStation 2 version, which suffers from significantly longer 
 load and save times than the Xbox and PC versions) , but considering all there is to do, it's hard 
 to imagine anyone blazing through the career mode without doing a whole lot of task simulation. 
 And simulation of these tasks is not something the game wants you to do. NFL Head Coach is built 
 with the micromanager in mind, so essentially, if you don't take the reins on every major task, 
 the team will suffer for it. This is especially true of practice situations. Simulating practices 
 pretty much guarantees that you'll be walking into a game with a limper squad than you would have 
 if you managed practice yourself, so you'll be far more likely to get your ass handed to you. Obviously, 
 if you're playing with an exceptionally good team, you can still manage to get by and maybe even 
 hit a wild-card spot in the play-offs. But this isn't the norm.  

  While there are certainly those who thrive on micromanagement and would balk at the notion of simulating 
 past key tasks, the density of Head Coach's design is certain to be too much for some players. 
 With so many off-season tasks to pore through before you even get to training camp, you'll spend 
 hours sifting through menu screens, simulating tasks such as calling up player agents; sitting 
 at a desk; checking your e-mail; drawing up gameplans; and having dry, generally unexciting meetings 
 with your staff. If you've ever heard the old joke about games becoming so realistic that eventually 
 you'll find yourself one day playing a virtual interpretation of your own boring, banal office 
 job, NFL Head Coach might initially seem like the beginnings of that joke come to life. But in 
 reality, nothing Head Coach does is really that different from the typical tasks found in a Madden 
 franchise mode. It's just a much deeper, more granular version of what you've probably already 
 played but without the added benefit of being able to play the football yourself.  

  For as deep an experience as NFL Head Coach can be, it is lacking in some of its ancillary features. 
 Beyond the monolithic career mode, all that's available is a basic quickplay mode and online multiplayer. 
 The multiplayer seems like it could be legitimately interesting in concept, but once you get online, 
 you'll instead find a rather dull and frustrating experience. The online setup works functionally 
 the same as any other EA Sports game, but once you're in a game, it becomes clear that functional 
 is just about the only positive word to describe it. Without the ability to put your players into 
 practice and build them up prior to a game, you're basically at the mercy of a team's rating. If 
 you play as, for instance, the Bears, you're going to suck it up against just about any team that 
 isn't statistically worse than you -- not to mention that you're going to find yourself celebrating 
 a festival of interceptions with the likes of Rex Grossman behind center. Unlike in normal Madden's 
 online mode, where a good player can make even a bad team succeed, Head Coach's online mode once 
 again puts you at the mercy of the artificial intelligence, and no amount of good play calling 
 or motivational speeches can fix this. Not to mention that for some odd reason, you can't do any 
 of the pre-snap controls online. So if you're about to send a running back into a massive wall 
 of defensive players, there's no way for you to audible out into a passing play, or even set tight 
 ends in motion to block on another side. Basically, unless you're willing to pick one of a handful 
 of upper-echelon teams in the game, and you're the type of player that always runs the exact play 
 you call, with no pre-snap adjustments, you're going to have a miserable time with the multiplayer. 

  On a more positive note, NFL Head Coach does a solid job with its presentation. On the field, you're 
 looking at the Madden engine you have come to know and love over the years. You might see a slightly 
 higher tendency toward goofy animations and visual glitches here and there, but otherwise, the 
 game looks like Madden. Off the field, the developer has done a fine job of making the game fairly 
 easy to navigate. The menus look slick, and for the most part, you should have next to no trouble 
 figuring out where the information you need is. There are areas that don't seem quite as well thought 
 out -- there isn't one, all-inclusive injury report that shows on one menu who has what injury and 
 for how long, for example -- but these bouts of menu confusion are typically in the minority. The 
 PC version in particular is especially easy to navigate, given the relative ease of the point-and-click 
 mouse and keyboard interface over the controller-based on of the console versions. Not that it's 
 especially difficult to sift through the console versions' menus, but it's just an easier task 
 on the PC. The only things to really complain about are some of the presentational touches found 
 in the old franchise modes. Would it have been such a hassle to bring back things such as the newspaper 
 headlines or the Tony Bruno radio show? It needs something -- anything -- to give the game less of 
 a dry aftertaste. It's understandable that the developer would generally want to stick to the business 
 of coaching and its tasks, but seriously, don't coaches read the newspaper, too?  

          Get used to sitting behind this desk. You'll be doing it a lot.     

  Practically all 
 the audio from the game seems to have been lifted from last year's Madden, sound effects and NFL 
 Films soundtrack included. The NFL Films music is used to particularly good effect here, though 
 again, if you bought last year's Madden and turned off most of the lame licensed music, you've 
 already heard this stuff. There's very little voice work in the game, save for some radio chatter 
 from your coordinators when you're calling plays and a few phrases here and there during meetings. 
 There's no in-game commentary, which is certainly more accurate to a real-life sideline experience 
 but also makes the on-field action just a touch blander than usual.  

  There was a great deal of potential in NFL Head Coach, and that potential shines through in several 
 key aspects of the game. But it's also hard not to be at least a little disappointed by some of 
 its more glaring flaws. The artificial intelligence issues really put a damper on the on-field 
 action, and some of the concepts within the coaching model, such as the motivation system, just 
 don't feel as fleshed out as they could have been. Still, while Head Coach is ultimately an imperfect 
 football-management simulation, it is also, almost in spite of itself, a frequently fun one. Those 
 with a penchant for serious football management are most certainly going to find things to like 
 about it.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (24 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: DMChiefs
Rating: 3
Date: Mar 14, 2008 3:18 am PT
Review:  The idea is truly a great one, but this games doesn't deliver at all. The meeting are all the same 
 through the years. This game just shows you how boring and tedious a head coaches live really is. 
 Another trouble spot: making your coaches happy by agreeing with even if they are wrong. It's just 
 a bad game feature that is neccessary to get a good coach with good stats to stay with the team. 
 Simming through many of the HC features will cause you team to make big and drastic changes that 
 destroy your team from within.
  
  There are just so many bad features, they totally overpower this games positive features, they 
 aren't even worth talking about. I'm glad I only had to pay five dollars for this poor products. 
 
  
  Working practices is interesting and fun for a little bit, it quickly gets boring. 
  
  I'm hoping that the next installment of NFL Head Coach 09 will be better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dare
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jul 22, 2007 8:15 pm PT
Review:  NFL Head Coach is a football management simulator that really gives a clear example of how hard 
 a coaching job is. In the beginning it was very tedious with the amount of office hours, which, 
 are highly unneeded. First you answer question from this guy then he gives you 5 team offers. After 
 you sign with one the game really puts you in charge of all the teams signing, drafting, and gameplans 
 to fit your team. The drafting i thought was fun just because of mel kiper's remarks after each 
 player was selected. He really went into detail about the players. I loved the cutscenes and thought 
 they were very well layed out and they were great looking. Too bad the whole game couldn't look 
 like this. The graphics in NFL Head Coach are reasonable, but not as good as Madden 07. I bought 
 this game for 19.99 with a bunch of coupons too, so it was worth the price, but 40 or 50 bucks 
 isn't. Overall it is a good game if you like sitting and controling a team for 50 hours or more... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bourkey207
Rating: 8.1
Date: Aug 8, 2007 2:58 am PT
Review:  What can i say about NFL Head Coach. This gives the view of how hard it is to be a head coach of 
 a NFL team. Your given certain goals each week or period which if you don't fulfill the owner gets 
 annoyed. This game is extremly slow at the start, which if you don't have patience you will throw 
 this game in the bin. It's all about patience. Signing players, choosing draft picks and training 
 your players is all one of the part of NFL head coach you have to be patient about. Though if you 
 are patient the results will show at gametime.
  
  The best bit of the game is game-day where you call the plays and make sure your players are performing 
 the plays right. The best bit of game-day is when you tell your players stratagy. So telling your 
 quarterback to throw long instead of short.
  
  The worst bit is office hours when you sit in the office and you are supposed to change gameplan 
 and rosters which you don't need to do anyway because your other assistant coaches do that already. 
 And unfortunatly you can't swap it with somthing else like training or signing players or coaches. 
 Plus the bugs and glitches in the game will make you think Atari developed the game.
  
  If your patient and love NFL this is your game my friend if not just buy Madden 07 or buy some 
 action game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: devilreyes
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 11, 2007 9:57 pm PT
Review:  EA is the smartest software company on the planet. Most companies waste their money on beta testing 
 and patching bad software. Not EA! They sucker their own customers into buying buggy software and 
 wait until the next year to implement the fixes. NFL Head Coach is the crowning glory of this business 
 model.
  
  This software is so full of bugs that the game is unplayable. I actually enjoyed the draft... too 
 bad I never saw the fruits of my labor - and labor I did. The level of management detail is spotty 
 but time consuming. Choosing your staff is a great idea, but the process is needlessly laborious. 
 Interviewing assistant coaches is a waste of time as they all spout the same invariably vague dialog 
 and you end up hiring them based solely on stats. Dealing with agents is a nice feature, but is 
 just as botched as the staff hires. Basically this entire game is an animated overlay pasted onto 
 a buggy version of Madden's management model. The simulation of actual games is entirely and utterly 
 broken. The fact that this game even shipped is proof positive of just how little EA thinks of 
 it's customer base. EA is willing to trade what credibility it has with gamers by turning out broken 
 code and charging you to beta test it,.. and since you can't return video games anymore, EA is 
 laughing all the way to the bank. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hoss75
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 11, 2007 8:07 pm PT
Review:  If it were not for the bugs, this would have been a decent game, but there is so much that could 
 have been done better. First, the bugs that I encountered were games being 0-0 and putting me as 
 coach as a different team, and I also had a bug where all screen menus would not be there and nothing 
 I could do short of Ctrl-Alt-Deleting the thing would work.
  
  The control this game gives you is great, but I found myself lacking time to do some tasks and 
 too much time to do others. Being able to motivate players is an awesome feature, one I wish was 
 in Madden, but not with how random player responses is.
  
  Among a couple of other issues, my scouting director is a moron and is definitely not to be listened 
 to, and for some reason my defensive coordinator is preoccupied with my running backs.
  
  Overall, I was greatly disappointed with what appeared to be a great premise. The bugs and annoying 
 quirks have caused me to basically abandon the game since the game now is just a waste of time 
 for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rolling66
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 16, 2006 1:57 am PT
Review:  Footbal players ecpesially seem to want to make there own plays. THat was almost the only reason 
 why I bought NFL Head Coach. When I finnaly got to the playmaking it turned out to be a very hard 
 thing to do. Another thing that is bad about the game is the super small detials. I thought it 
 would be coool with all the detials but I was severly wrong. You want to play a football game play 
 madden if you want coaching game play madden coach mode. The game has a long tilte and lerning curve 
 to it so spare your money and buy Madden. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zornundo
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 12, 2006 8:09 pm PT
Review:  Had some fun with this game. Made it all the way to week 2 regular season with no problem and enjoyed 
 it immensely. Then I try to actually play the game and the game is going to a different team, as 
 in I am head coach of one team and its making me coach another on game day. I simmed ahead to the 
 next week and it did it again.
  
  If I paid more than bargain price for this game I would be pissed off. As it is, I don't think 
 I will play this game again because I put in a lot of time and now I can't do anything in the game.
 
  
  Thanks for a piece of buggy poop, EA!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ocdog45
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 20, 2006 11:33 am PT
Review:  NFL Head Coach brings you into the world of a head coach. make crucial decisions that will impact 
 your career within the organization and overall.
  
  gameplay - almost complicated at first but basically you interview for a head coaching job and 
 you get offered a job depending on your answers to question. then comes the initial work like having 
 a coaching staff, restricting contracts, evaluate players ect. football stuff.
  
  graphics - are simple and to the point. the players look poly all the way. Theres not much to 
 see here. an office here and there, a wardrobe change. thats it. during the games it looks solid.
 
  
  sound - during gameplay this game looks and SOUDNS great. has the atmosphere of an actual game 
 with you being on the sideline.
  
  Overall - this game is good enough for the strategy fan. if you want to play the team. give it 
 up because its not going to happen. while this is a decent game for a football fan, its not enough 
 for a gamer and simply put. you spend too much time doing things in short terms of the day. they 
 could of done it in a different angle. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vfibsux
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 12, 2006 3:20 pm PT
Review:  In short the game is boring, repetitive, the manual is non-existent, and the interface is the worse 
 I have seen in a long time. I really want to like this game, but personally I don't see anything 
 here that the Madden series cannot do but without the excess baggage. The game pulls you in at 
 first with the interview process and getting hired, then weeks of meaningless crap follow. I don't 
 need action, but add some flash to this so-called simulation. It is just boring, did I mention 
 the terrible interface? The rosters are the worst. THey would have been better off using Madden 
 06's interface, that would have improved the game 50% by itself. Waste of money and time in my 
 opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: edbeavers3
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 1, 2006 7:52 pm PT
Review:  Apparently being an NFL head coach is among the most tedious jobs in the world. If so, then this 
 game captures it perfectly. If not, then it's the most detail oriented game ever.
  
  It's an easy game to play - almost everything is quite intuitive. The game takes you through the 
 entire sequece, all you have to do is follow along and make the decisions - and boy, there are 
 a lot of them. You can create plays, change coaching uniforms, make all of your coaching staff 
 and personnel decisions, schedule training camp and all practices, game plan and call your plays, 
 praise and berate your players, do your depth charts, everything - you name it, it's all there.
 
  
  Just be prepared for it take a lot of time... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Corke_Halon
Rating: 4.7
Date: Jul 26, 2006 5:45 pm PT
Review:  My first year coaching the Oakland Raiders was definitely a successful one. I crushed the team's 
 goal of finishing with an 8-8 record not only by going 11-5, but by making it to the wildcard and 
 greatly improving the team's running game (in the matter of fact I was fifth in the league in rushing 
 yards) . I don't know if I was due to my outstanding work ethics or my unmatched play-calling ability, 
 but this success earned me several lucrative coaching offers from practically every team, as well 
 as comparisons to the greatest coaches in NFL history, such as Vince Lombardi and Don Shula. Someday 
 I just might join them in the hall of fame.
  
  Unfortunately I doubt I will ever see this day. This is simply because NFL Head Coach just isn't 
 fun. It might have an interesting premise and be infinitely rewarding, but it is just too tedious 
 to make me want to press on in my short NFL coaching career.
  
  In the words of legendary coach Vince Lombardi: The only place where success comes before work 
 is the dictionary. This applies perfectly to NFL Head Coach. It is possible to achieve an extremely 
 high level of success (or become a total failure hoping to get a job) , but the game will make you 
 work for that. And boy, will you work.
  
  The possibilities of where you can go are almost endless, but NFL Head Coach starts you off as 
 a young offensive or defensive coordinator (you can choose) on the Super Bowl champion Pittsburgh 
 Steelers, who is hoping to land a job as a head coach. After speaking with scouts about your coaching 
 philosophies and much more, you will receive e-mails from team owners who are interested in having 
 you as a coach. If you want you can start off with the Steelers, or you can build up a team that 
 had a rough year for a higher paycheck, such as the Houston Texans or Oakland Raiders (assuming 
 that they are interested in having you as a coach) . From there it is up to you to complete the 
 manager's demands or else you'll be looking for a new job next spring. So if you pick the Steelers 
 you better win the division again, while going 8-8 should be enough to satisfy the Texans.
  
  But you're not just coaching on the sidelines in NFL Head Coach; you're running the whole show. 
 You're responsible for hiring coaches, conducting practices, signing/releasing players, and much 
 more. Basically you control everything that happens behind the scenes. Out of the almost twenty 
 hours that I spent with the game, the vast majority of my time was spent in the office, not on 
 the sidelines. While this might sound great in concept, especially to Madden franchise junkies 
 like myself, in reality it is extremely boring.
  
  The office hours, which are squeezed in between every single event, just aren't interesting. Besides 
 reading e-mails and revamping your roster, there isn't a lot to do, and the constant office sessions 
 are enough to drive almost anyone crazy. I have no problem with a little management, but in NFL 
 Head Coach this is the focus of the game. On top of that you aren't able to skip or simulate anything. 
 The best part about franchise modes in football games was the fact that you can do as much as you 
 want and skip whatever you want. This isn't the care here. You can sim practices and a few other 
 events, but don't expect your players to return from a simulated practice and perform any better 
 on the field.
  
  Coaching actual games is also a disappointment. Basically there are very few features, if any, 
 that aren't included in modern football games, such as EA's Madden series. Substituting fatigued/injured 
 players, calling plays, and challenging the referee's calls might be fun, but recent Madden games 
 offer all of this as well, plus the ability to play if you desire. The only difference is the ability 
 to individually coach players on the sideline. This can be as simple as telling running backs to 
 protect the ball (to avoid fumbles) or criticizing a quarterback for throwing an interception with 
 the game on the line. This is the one thing the game has going for it. Some might take the criticism 
 to heart and take over the game, but others might not and turn out worse and not improve at all. 
 As a coach it's your job to find out how your players respond to certain criticism and treat them 
 accordingly. This is cool because your influence will ultimately impact the games.
  
  But at the same time the poor AI sometimes makes you feel like a spectator. There were times when 
 I would be played an exhibition coaching game and witnessing NFL superstars such as Peyton Manning 
 and Tom Brady throw three interceptions in a game and make the worst possible decisions that don't 
 go with the intended play at all. In the matter of fact in career mode I even lost a game because 
 my quarterback threw the ball a good five yards too short late in the fourth quarter (a pass that 
 no NFL QB would throw) , which resulted in an interception that was returned for a touchdown. The 
 AI also has other problems, such as goofing up certain plays and making the occasional bad decision, 
 such as throwing to a receiver heavily covered instead of the wide open one on the other side of 
 the field. Ultimately the fate of any sports team lies in the hands of the players, but it's really 
 disappointing to see your team make the dumbest mistakes while you helplessly watch.
  
  There's also multiplayer included, but it's completely worthless. You can coach against other people 
 over the Internet, but since you can't train your team in any ways matches are determined almost 
 solely on the team's overall rankings. The single player mode can almost last forever, but it just 
 isn't something that casual fans will be able to endure. If the office hours and the AI was improved 
 NFL Head Coach could've been a top tier sports management simulation. But because of its flaws 
 we're all better off going back to the annual franchise mode in Madden. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stratospaly
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 5, 2006 5:42 am PT
Review:  I am in the post season now on my NFL head coach game. I spent 10 hours before my first real season 
 game. I picked the Seahawks, and traded off the 2 WRs I had for first round picks, Picked up a 
 great speed WR, and a great OLB, then traded or picked up in free agency: Isaac Bruce, Matt Jones. 
 I had Hasselback and 3 great recievers, along with alexander and the rest of the starters of the 
 06 superbowl team, so I was set to go.
  
  The first 6 games I win by 3 scores or more, with little coaching to the players. After that the 
 game seemed to go on "cheat mode" I had a list of flaws stated below.
  
  * My QB a few times tossed a beautiful bullet... the wrong way, some DE picked it up and just walked 
 into the endzone for a free TD costing me a game or two.
  
  * Ints in this game are out of hand.. My QB has thrown 40 TDs and 40 Ints going into the post season, 
 my DBs have 23, 12, 10, 5, 5 Ints.. 23 ints?!?! how is this realistic?
  
  * Penalties - if it is a game changing overturning play... it never goes for my team, not once 
 out of 8 or so of these plays has it gone for my team.
  
  * "hurryup = IWIN" for computer - I have had 32 points in 2 min scored on my defence that held 
 the same team to 0 points for the first 18 min.
  
  * Plays switching before I can hit enter - randomly the plays will call themselves.
  
  * "get 
 a big hit causing a turnover" = everyone rush the QB when the ball is snapped, no matter if I call 
 zone or not.
  
  * Playbook, I have not really looked for an option, but can we get plays with like formations on 
 the list.. It is obvious every time a team has a TE and a FB, they are going to run it on first 
 down. 
  
  * "coaching players" can totaly ruin them
  
  * Graphics, It would be nice to have better graphics than the same thing we had in NCAA 05! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moshingpunker
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jul 3, 2006 9:17 pm PT
Review:  I was highly anticipating this game to be on the same level as the Madden series, but I guess I 
 just set my sights just a bit too high. Although the game is fun at first but lacked the depth 
 that the popular Madden series contained. I also was having a problem with the fact that sometimes 
 i would send my halfback up the middle for a run play and he would run into his blockers then continue 
 to run around in circles until a hole opened up for him to run through. More problems I was having 
 is the fact that players and coaches didn't have the greatest collision detection so people were 
 passing right through one another. Although various problems I did like the fact that you can control 
 your team from the seat of the head coach. A good game just something I don't see them following 
 through on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ajsheridan75
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jul 3, 2006 9:19 am PT
Review:  I was dissapointed pretty much from start to finish. You're supposed to have complete control over 
 your team, but you can't even schedule enough time to do simple things like deciding who your starters 
 will be without skipping practice. I also didn't enjoy going through hours and hours of preseason 
 work just to find out I could only play with 5 minute quarters. There is no way to adjust this. 
 I understand the creators probably set the games to 20 minutes to keep statistics reasonably close 
 to those you would find in real life (and they are) , but why not drop the laziness and do the work 
 so this works with a 15 minute quarter as well as a 5? I think EA should of let a real head coach 
 play through a season of this first and then put it out as an NFL head coach simulation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: viking93
Rating: 1.8
Date: Jul 2, 2006 5:33 pm PT
Review:  EA Sports failed miserably with this NFL title. Definitely do not recommend purchasing. It is tedious, 
 boring, and feels too much like "work" vs video game. Wait on Madden '07 vs spending your money 
 on this flop. 
  
  Movement between scenes is very slow due to long save and load times. 
  
  Dialogue between the coordinators, the owner, and the coach are extremely limited.
  
  It 
 is definitely a closed ended game. Meaning that you have to follow the script too closely and is 
 not flexible enough to allow open ended play.
  
  Was expecting something similar to the Madden Franchise mode just more unfortunately was disappointed 
 with the play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crcostel715
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 29, 2006 4:23 pm PT
Review:  NFL HC is a decent game. I used to play Madden on coach mode sometimes and this is a little like 
 that. 
  
  PRO
  - Draft is well done (but odd)
  - Great concept
  - Don't have to listen to Madden and Michaels!
  
  CON
  - Keyboard shortcuts are wrong. If 
 it says press [ I have to press ]
  - Draft is screwy - how is it I got Reggie Bush at #7
  - Player AI is horrid. With 2 min to go, and 4th and 3, why in the world would my QB throw a long 
 lateral. Even stupid QBs aren't that stupid
  - My DBs wake up one day and get a dozen picks, and other times don't exist. Same gameplan. Same 
 practices.
  - The interface is awful. Slow. Too many menus and sub menus. Its obvious this game was designed 
 for console.
  - Rosters are 6 months or more old. What was EA thinking?
  
  Despite all that the game is pretty fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tieio
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jun 28, 2006 1:34 am PT
Review:  There could have been so much more to this game and there could have been some less too, but what 
 we got was something not quite adequate. Sure you can sit for hours and fly by the world of pretending 
 to be a football manager, but truly realistic, it is not. Filling a game with unnecessarily tedious 
 and redundant tasks does not make for a good simulation. There is room for much more strategy and 
 real football related material. Had EA sports picked up the old front office football team and 
 worked their idea into that classic game, it may have been a better fit, but they put that company 
 out of business with their NFL license hording and did not make a decent replacement.
  
  Having said that, I will play the next version because there are a lot of good things in the game 
 too, and with enough time and improving, this could become a far better game. As a general rule 
 it is best to not give up on a game that has a good idea in its first version, and this game has 
 a good idea or two in it.
  
  If you want to check this game out, I recommend waiting until it is a little cheaper and the experience 
 will be far more worth it, paying $50 does not seem reasonable for something that feels very unfinished.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: moniteau88
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 27, 2006 7:25 pm PT
Review:  this is a really good game. but you have to be one of the people that like thinking and understanding 
 the game of football. you cant just pick it up and play it. and the graphics are nothing great 
 but they were trying to let it to run on all computers so. it is a very addictive game. it is worths 
 the money for $40.
  and you also get EA sports fantasy football commsioner package for free thats alone is $50. in overall 
 i would give it a 9 out of ten it just needed better garphics. but thats my view on it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darth-Talon
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jun 26, 2006 8:27 pm PT
Review:  I've always played Madden in Coach Mode, so I was thrilled when I heard that EA was coming out 
 with a game that focuses on coaching and franchise management as opposed to fast-action button-pressing 
 during games.
  
  First, let me begin with my main disappointment in the game. You can't get at ALL the data you 
 need simultaneously. For example, when evaluating my team in the off-season, I want to see the 
 age and salary status of players at the same time that I'm looking at their various talent ratings. 
 NFL Head Coach has all this data. However, it's segmented in the user interface such that you can't 
 see it at the same time (from the same screen) . That would not be a problem if EA would have provided 
 an export feature on any and all of the game's data-centric screens.
  
  Two additional interface gripes: 1) In a game like this, tables of data are a good thing. I know 
 this is supposed to be a 3-D simulation, but there is so much wasted screen space that you are 
 constantly scrolling up, down, left and right. Did I mentioned that an export feature could have 
 fixed this? 2) The roster screens are too hierarchical in nature. Filters for teams and positions 
 are at one level while the actual numerical ratings are at another. This prevents you from quickly 
 comparing players across teams and when search for free agents. Oh, yes, the export feature would 
 have solved that also...
  
  There is plenty to like about NFL Head Coach. It is very deep, and aspects of the game are much 
 more realistic than Madden in Franchise Mode. For example, in Madden you could use the instant 
 feedback meters to pull of the perfect trade or offer the absolute minimum salary. In NFL HC, you 
 don't get instant feedback and you have limited opportunities to interact with player agents and 
 opposing GMs. I hate it when a GM hangs up on me for wasting his time with too many low-ball trade 
 offers, but it feels realistic.
  
  I agree with what most reviewers are saying about the strict schedule, but after a while, I got 
 used to that. The whole concept of dynamic trust, motivation, and strategy seem natural to manipulate. 
 They seem to have the expected impact in the short-term, but I've yet to see the long-term impact 
 of these aspects of the game.
  
  In summary, the game tends to grow on you It takes a while to adjust to the game (especially the 
 coach's office user interface) , and the game certainly won't adjust to you. It's a nice game, but 
 the restrictive user interface and lack of high-power data crunching tools make the game "fair" 
 instead of "great". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JesseFox
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jun 26, 2006 8:18 am PT
Review:  The first turn-off about this game would be the interface. Due to the cross platform nature, and 
 awkward menu interface it takes a little getting used to in order to get from menu to menu, but 
 the keyboard helps out quite a bit.
  
  This game is definitely not for the casual fan of football series. This is not a twitch game, as 
 it puts you in the role of the head coach/gm. There is a lot of micromanagement, but it is presented 
 in a much more pleasing way , in my humble opinion, then front office football is. There are also 
 aspects of the game, such as the motivational side and the importance put on practices that I have 
 not seen elsewhere.
  
  There is a definite learning curve involved. It will take a few times going through a task, or 
 game before you get the swing of things in that task. Game day seemed very taunting at first, feeling 
 like I had no time, but by the end of the preseason you are flying through things with time to 
 spare.
  
  A major complaint i read is that some tasks are rigid and can not be swapped out, office hours 
 specifically. While it is true you can not do much during office hours, you can change your calendar 
 which is the main reason I feel it is in there between every practice. If they made it where you 
 could swap out your office hours the simple problem with that is a) you would be locked into your 
 tasks if they are a bunch of practices in a row (where you can't get to your calendar to swap out 
 tasks) , and b) the balance of how much time you have would either be gone, or they would halve 
 the number of tasks you can do in a day, which would end up with people complaining about that. 
 However, what I do find annoying in this system is occasionally an assistant coach will call you 
 during office hours and ask you to pencil in another practice when most of the time, all your available 
 time is packed with practices.
  
  The natural relationship development between you and your assistants runs smooth. You have a trust 
 level with your boss (owner) and all your subordinates (coaches) , and this seems to work out well. 
 If the players they are responsible for are not doing well, the trust level naturally declines 
 due to conversations you will have with them. And at certain points in conversations you can choose 
 to take a trust hit in a hope to enlighten them (stat increases for them) by dressing them down.
 
  
  The players themselves have a range within which their stats will fluctuate. They seem to fluctuate 
 a bit too much imho, making it so that it seems your well prepared qb at the top of his rating 
 due to a good week of practices drops to the middle or low part of his range if he is sacked. Motivation 
 is unpredictable enough where it is always a risk, but you learn which players on your team react 
 good or bad based on certain situations, and learn how to have the best chance of manipulating 
 your team.
  
  There are definite opportunities for improvement, and I truly hope this is a series that lives 
 on via patches and future versions. There are occasional AI glitches during games that make you 
 shake your head a little bit, but they are not common enough to ruin the experience. The multiplayer 
 portion could have done much better with online leagues being an option. The play designed feature 
 could have been done a LOT better. Simple file management in the play designer is a chore. All 
 in all a very good sim if you are into micromanaging the day to day activities of a pro team. 
 
  
  On a strategic level, one of my very few disappointments in this game is the same I have had with 
 madden, in that the defensive players don't seem to really play true football defense, in the sense 
 of different schemes (ie: 1 gap vs 2 gap) , but I remain hopefull for the future.
  
  I suggest you do not read reviews written by those who have only played the demo, and stick to 
 the reviews of those who have invested some decent time into the game. If you like sports-management 
 sims, or madden franchise mode (and don't mind that it isn't a twitch game, you are watching all 
 the action just making the calls) , this is a good game with some nice graphics to it. If those 
 are not the kinds of games for you, neither is this. 
  
  This game is definitely a niche game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jokiddjr
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 26, 2006 7:21 am PT
Review:  I like the concept from Tiburon, a game that tries to simulate the day to day tasks of an NFL coach/gm. 
 Unfortunately, right from the start this game micromanages way to much. It makes the game too linear, 
 where most strategy games give you more freedom and allow you to multitask (which is probably a 
 key attribute of an NFL coach) .
  
  The menus are painful to navigate (which is most likely due to the port from console to pc) and 
 roster and statistic screens should have borrowed from the more informative versions of its text 
 based cousins. Trading is painful due to the lack of feedback from the other team. For example, 
 when a coach told me my trade was an A- and I needed to make it an A+, I added a 2nd and 3rd pick 
 and was still told the same thing.
  
  There are several key features that this game adds to the sim genre which save it from utter damnation. 
 The trust system you must build between the owner, team coaches and players is a great idea - its 
 just to buggy and immature. The floor and ceiling rating system is a great idea, especially how 
 practices and gamplay affect the players current rating. Unfortunately, this aspect needs a lot 
 of polish. The scouting aspect of the game was one of the few parts of the game that is release 
 ready. It is imaginative, somewhat challenging and intuitive to use. 
  
  Finally, the live coaching of games and practice was very entertaining - the best part of the game 
 for me. Besides calling plays, you have all the features of Madden (shifts, audible, movement ...) . 
 In addition, you can motivate and micromanage each player throughout the game.
  
  Overall, the game is too easy and worries way too much about visuals. It neglects the management 
 part of the game. Worst of all, most of its good features are underdeveloped and seemingly rushed 
 to release. Gamers should stick to Madden and NCAA for the eye candy and FOF and TFP for the brain 
 candy.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bfmooz
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 26, 2006 3:15 am PT
Review:  NFL Head Coach takes a whole new approach on the Madden franchise. For the last several years of 
 playing Madden games, I have thoroughly enjoyed the Franchise mode. The incentive was to get through 
 the season to get to all of the offseason activities, such as free agent signing and the draft. 
 NFL Head Coach focuses on these parts. It provides a whole new element of challenge for players. 
 Some aspects can get tedious at the beginning of the game, but simming through some of the unnecessary 
 days can speed the process up. Overall, NFL Head Coach provides a new set of challenges for the 
 die-hard football fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tekkor
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 24, 2006 8:47 pm PT
Review:  First things first....
  
  If you are a fan of the Madden series and think this is just madden with a bit more franchise mode 
 thrown in.... your wrong. 
  
  In essence what you have here is one of those management sims that those other companies make about 
 Baseball or Soccer or something..... but its done using a much more graphical interface and actual 
 3D while the game is going on graphics. You dont control the players. You are the coach. You do 
 all the behind the scenes stuff like balancing rosters, adjusting depth charts, running practices 
 and focusing on players who need it the most and more.
  
  If you come into the game with the right focus on what to expect you will be like me and at first 
 be a small bit underwhelmed. But..... as you play it more and actually make your way into actual 
 games the whole thing starts to really get addictive. 
  
  It's not like normal football games where no matter how bad the team is if you have some "Skillz" 
 you can still score and do whatever you want. You have to be savy on drafting and signing free 
 agents to try and better your team. Even more you have to practice the players that need it. Your 
 LB's not at the top of potential? You better run some RB vs. LB drills!
  
  There are a few annoying things to point out that are the main things bugging me so far. First 
 of all as all reviews point out I hate how the schedule locks you into certain activities and you 
 can only do certain things. For instance there are all these "Office Hours" time periods. Typically 
 2 a day. You on average only have room to do about 4-5 things a day. During these "Office Hours" 
 you cant do much of anything except adjust your depth chart or read email.
  
  For instance.... Currently Im up past my 3rd preseason game (about 10 hours play time) . I was noticing 
 I only have like 49 guys on my roster (Phins) . So I want to go look at the Free Agents available..... 
 Wrong. You can only do that during a "Sign Players" time period of a day. I look at my schedule 
 for a week and everything is full with practices and meetings.
  
  I have like 15 "Office Hours" in the schedule.... I probably need like 2 of them. Its very aggravating 
 that to go sign a new player I have to cancel a practice to do it and cant use my "Office Hours" 
 for it. Very annoying.. but you learn to work around it.
  
  The other thing that was a bit awkward is that they didnt have the trades up to date..... for instance. 
 Im playing with the Phins. They dont have Culpepper. You also have to do the draft that just happen. 
 Well I wanted to get Culpperpper to sorta make the team be similar to how it is now in RL.
  
  I Offered the Vikings my 1st , 2nd and 3rd round picks for him and they said no.... lol. So 
 its impossible to get him. I ended up having to settle and trade Houston and stole Carr away.
 
  
  Anyway if your like me and always had an interest in those francise sim games but never got into 
 them because of the simple graphic nature and not wanting to just deal with numbers....... this 
 may be what you have always wanted. Im enjoying the game more then I thought I would.
  
  I really hope they perhaps add some patches to deal with a few issues.... if not I really hope this 
 series continues with a sequel..... as a first try its a good try at it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hades_30
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 23, 2006 6:32 am PT
Review:  Head Coach will definitely appeal to the hardcore sports fans who love to get their hands on the 
 behind the scenes things that makes a successful team.
  
  The day to day activities can become a bit tedious, but if a player really likes to sit and think, 
 plan, and strategize, this part of the game will be lots of fun. For those who want to get right 
 to the on-field coaching and playing, there is a bit of a wait, as preparing your team is a big 
 part of the game. This part could have been made a little more fun, and perhaps a little easier 
 to control.
  
  Interface is weird, as it combines keyboard and mouse in a way that I haven't gotten totally used 
 to. Obviously this is due to the cross platform nature of the game. The learning curve is short, 
 but to master the game and make the right decision, a player will need some knowledge of players 
 and teams, all which are available within the game. You just have to know where to look.
  
  Other coaches will help you, the Head Coach, in making the right decisions, but sometimes, they 
 come up with boneheaded suggestions. This A. I. can be great at times, and bad.
  
  On the field, the game shines. I really like how EQ incorporated the Madden playstyle and look, 
 while you pace the sidelines. A coach goes on making strategy, motivating, etc. on the sidelines 
 while the team plays in real-time. 
  
  Player progression is interesting just as the team progression is. Each player has a range of ability, 
 and practice will increase their stats. So practice before games is very important. One thing I 
 am not sure of is exactly how my coaches input influences my players. 
  
  Head Coach has been fun, and it is surprising to me that I am finding it much like Civilization 
 IV in the way I cannot stop playing . . . I have to take that next step in having another weekly 
 staff meeting, or conducting another Off vs. Def practice so that my team learns the playbook.
 
  
  Heac Coach is a great sports sim/management game tha I recommend to all fantasy football fans, 
 or hardcore football fans. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
