-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: NHL 08
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sports/nhl08/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 EA finally added the skill stick--albeit a less dynamic version of it.
 Dynasty mode is reasonably deep.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Skill stick or not, this plays pretty much identically to the last few PC EA NHL games.
 Defense is stump dumb.
 Dynasty mode has some budgeting issues.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 18, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6
Critic Score: 6.6, 7 Review (s)
User Score: 5.2, 484 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Electronic Arts
Developer: EA Canada
Genre: Ice Hockey
Date:     Sep 11, 2007 &raquo;  
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
NHL 08 offers up a few control tweaks and minimal updates to the dynasty mode, but that's about 
 it. 

  If you've been following EA's sports game releases on older consoles and the PC over the last couple 
 of years, the following sentence should be of absolutely no surprise to you: NHL 08 on the PS2 
 and PC is a lot like NHL 07. Once again, EA has phoned it in on these versions, adjusting the control 
 scheme a bit, adding minor league management to the dynasty mode, and calling it a day. Apart from 
 that, the game still plays the same lightning-fast and patently unrealistic game of hockey it has 
 since NHL 2005, and unless you're devoid of any current-gen consoles, there's little reason to 
 take the plunge on this year's game.  

           NHL 07 returns to the PC in NHL 08.      

  The most significant change to NHL 08 on 
 the PS2 and PC is the addition of the skill stick, the excellent control feature from the Xbox 
 360 and PS3 game that lets you deke and shoot using the right analog stick (PC owners can still 
 use keyboard buttons, if that floats your particular brand of boat) . Unfortunately, this version 
 of the skill stick isn't all that great. It's certainly an improvement, but it lacks the precision 
 of the stick movements found in the 360 and PS3 versions. Dekes feel a bit stiff, and slap shots 
 are a pain to pull off. Half the time you wind up for the shot, your player won't slap it forward, 
 no matter how hard you push the stick forward to shoot. Wristers, at least, seem to work without 
 a hitch.  

  There's no arguing that the addition of the skill stick is a nice bonus. It's just that this skill 
 stick isn't dynamic enough to really make a significant difference, especially when you're playing 
 the equivalent of speed hockey. NHL 08 still feels way, way too fast to be remotely realistic. 
 Checking is still too frequent and too heavy, and scoring is only slightly less out of control. 
 Once you get a handle on the stick, you can still average seven or eight goals a game just by hammering 
 slap shots (when they work) and constantly crashing the net up the middle, periodically faking 
 out the goalie with some of your fancy new dekes. Defensive artificial intelligence is weak enough 
 to where you can pretty much do this over and over and guarantee a win on practically every difficulty 
 level -- especially when the defense decides to start getting tangled-up opposing players in front 
 of the net in a gigantic bunching formation, making it easy for you to move to the wing and snap 
 one in while the goalie is screened. The ridiculous speed and high-scoring nature of the game make 
 it relatively fun if viewed purely as an arcade hockey game, but it's not really any more or less 
 fun than last year's game, or the year before that, for that matter.  

  The only other gameplay addition to be found is a goofy "buddy buzz" feature that lets players 
 in two-player team matches tap their sticks on the ice and, as a result, send a quick bit of vibration 
 to their puck-handling friend to let them know they're open. And the PC version doesn't even have 
 this feature -- just the PS2 does.  

  In terms of modes, NHL 08 includes all the same ones from last year, including European elite leagues, 
 tournaments, the free-4-all minigame, and the dynasty mode. Unfortunately, none of the negotiation 
 aspects of the 360 and PS3 versions' dynasty mode have made it into the PS2 or PC game, and you 
 can basically sign free agents until there are no free agents left. The salary cap doesn't appear 
 on the free agent signing screen, so you won't know if you're over the cap until you go into the 
 contracts menu and take a look. On top of that, the fantasy draft option is totally busted. You 
 can draft up to 40 players, but draft never tells you how much each player costs, and the computer-controlled 
 teams seem oblivious to the cap. So once the draft is over, you start seeing players like Joe Thornton 
 and Dany Heatley sitting on the free agent market because teams couldn't afford them. It's just 
 silly.  

           The new skill stick finally lets you shoot with the right analog stick, though it doesn't 
 feel nearly as good as it does on the 360 and PS3.      

  Online play is utterly untouched from last year. Head-to-head play, leaderboards, lobbies, it's 
 all there. PC owners can access the EA Sports Online features, like clubs, tournaments, and head-to-head 
 matchmaking, provided they register the game online and figure out how to make the EASO installer 
 work (it doesn't install to the game by default) . The online experience is relatively smooth on 
 both platforms, at least.  

  Beyond these meager distinctions, NHL 08 really just is another coat of paint over the same basic 
 game EA has been releasing for years. Graphics have seen next to no improvement beyond a few improved 
 goalie animations and slightly better player faces, and the audio hasn't changed a lick, right 
 down to the same repetitive commentary from Jim Hughson and Craig Simpson that's been recycled 
 to death at this point. While it's certainly no shock that the PS2 version would get this treatment, 
 since it is an aging platform, the PC version's neglect is both surprising and irritating. There's 
 no reason why EA couldn't port the 360 or PS3 version of the game to the PC at this point, and 
 that it hasn't yet is just kind of disgusting. Either way, neither the PS2 nor PC versions of NHL 
 08 should be your first, or even second, choice for a hockey game this year.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (58 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: rustyjayrusty
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 23, 2009 9:38 pm PT
Review:  This game is hard to rank because, well it is a very good game, but on the other hand it pales 
 in comparison to the 360 version. A lot of reviewers giving this game such a horrible score is 
 because they are comparing it to that version, but it is still a very good game for PC (never tried 
 NHL 09 but its supposed to be more of the same)
  
  Gameplay : The gameplay is actually quite good and it feels more like real hockey than any game 
 in the series in quite a while. Goals are very satisfying when you get them, but it is very frustrating 
 when you accidentally shoot the puck because the skill stick appears to be broken and "clunky". 
 The AI is very challenging at times and manages to make some good plays.
  
  Graphics : The graphics are extremely disappointing. While not that bad overall, in 2009 (or even 
 2004) they look very bad. The game does not support wide screen resolutions (which is at the very 
 least, unacceptable) and even at the highest resolution at high details the graphics are jagged 
 and aliased. It looks almost like a detailed version of NHL 98 if you can believe it. Of course 
 everything is extremely detailed and well done so it doesn't detract from the game too much, but 
 it is very disappointing.
  
  Sound : The sound effects are very good and makes you feel like you are "on the ice". Commentary 
 is a little annoying at times and seems to repeat itself more often than in previous years (again, 
 regression rather than progression, is at the very least unacceptable) , but overall it is not too 
 bad.
  
  Value : At about $10 right now, i would say that it is a better value than NHL 09. Its obvious 
 that EA has focused on making their next gen games on the consoles rather than PC, which is understandable 
 because a lot of clueless people with underpowered PCs would be complaining about the system requirements 
 if they put a next gen game on PC, but is very annoying nonetheless. It is still, however a very 
 fun game if you take it for what it is and the best hockey experience on PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crowless
Rating: 3.5
Date: Mar 19, 2009 2:08 pm PT
Review:  and we are to stick with the Electronic Arts idea of hockey game conversion to our beloved PC's. 
 
  Having the license fot NHL and the European leagues doesn't mean EA will serve you a thrilling 
 hockey game on a silver plate. Contrary to the Fifa series, there is no competitor like Evolution 
 soccer and EA remains the only distributor to any hockey game. The bitter taste can be felt in 
 the game itself - quite the same visual feeling for the last 5 years, the same idiotic control 
 system along with ... same bugs.
  Sure there are some good ideas in the game, like the dynasty mode and stick control, which work 
 just fine in the next-gen consoles ... but ... buged as they are in the PC conversion? And on top 
 of that, they were introduced in 2004 and 2005 version of NHL. 
  All I can say is - such a great game (which hockey really is) deserves much better ... much better 
 then EA! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowluv12
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 11, 2008 6:21 pm PT
Review:  This is a GREAT game is you are looking for a exciting and triled action. I would highly recommend 
 ppl rather than the NHL 09 version because in 09, there's far to many glitches in the PC version 
 of 09, so if you are very looking forward to play the 09 version, then buy the game for another 
 platform eg. XBOX 360 and PS3 works BEST! but if you only play PC games, then i woul buy this game. 
 Although this game might be a year older but the has very few glitches and overall it's better 
 than the 09 PC version, the players might be out-dated but it's still a whole lot of fun. If you 
 want to experience the most out of this, then buy the Logitech Dual-Action Gamepad, this gamepad 
 is the same as a PS2 constroller but it's for PC. You can buy this gamepad for less than 30 dollars 
 in Bestbuy and Wal-Mart. this pad will help you experience the MOST out of this if you put it on 
 Hybrid controls. Well, ENJOY THE GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fandom888
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 6, 2008 1:10 am PT
Review:  From the early years of the PC, EA sports annualy released a game wich has to do with ice hockey. 
 Every year the developers added new features and new things. But finally, it seems that they are 
 out of ideas.
  
  In fact, the game has not anything to introduce, expect from new rosters and kits, and the skill 
 stick. The skill stick is a valuable tool for attacking breakouts and will solve all your problems 
 if you use it properly. Unfortunately, the PC controls don't help at all, and make it tougher to 
 use. But the major problem with the skill stick is that it makes opposite defences seem ridiculous, 
 even the best ones.
  
  Apart from the skill stick, the game offers only some upgrades in the dynasty mode, which is good 
 enough. Nevertheless, there is a great possibility to face great finiancial problems or to lose 
 almost every game by the time you don't play by yourself. In an attemt to make a hard-like-real 
 dynasty, the developers failed, thus making a harder-than-real dynasty mode.
  
  The visuals, sounds, and every on-the-pitch issue is almost the same as in 07: good graphics, average 
 sound and an average performance.
  
  NHL 08 is not advancing the series. However, it is still entertaining and interesting, but in my 
 opinion it should be approached only by older playeres of the NHL series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mjstokes85
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 24, 2008 1:36 am PT
Review:  I bought this game thinking it would be a cool sports game to get in to, pretty high octane stuff. 
 Great, right? I, like a lot of people use the 360 wireless controller with my pc. But EA sports 
 fails to recognize this, and so i cannot play the game at all. What a waste of money that was. 
 I cannot comment on the game as i have never been able to actually play it, so this last part is 
 me just trying to get this review up to the requred number of words. Am i there yet? I think i 
 must be almost there now. So in summary, if you own the most popular and best PC game contoller, 
 you can not play this game, period. Anyway, i think i must be around the required number now, please 
 say i am as i have nothing else to say about this pile of elephant turd, except it is reminiscent 
 to an old man who chods his own pants and sits there grumbling until someone changed his soiled 
 white y-fronts. This game is a skid mark on the pants of PC gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordzoris
Rating: 1.5
Date: Sep 13, 2008 6:39 am PT
Review:  As all the other NHL games it is good on it's own foot. The difficulty is easy even on Difficult 
 Settings and there is a lot of presence within the game. The custom character creation is horrible 
 and completely amateur. Bad face models and even worse manipulation of them. Honestly I thought 
 NHL 06's version was much better. Slight performance issues have been corrected and the internet 
 play is decent. If your going to get an NHL game, get it for the 360 or PS3, they've clearly finished 
 with PC.
  
  This game might as well be new packaging. You get what you pay for.
  
  Although a lot of bad things have been said, if you have never played NHL games before this would 
 be a decent stepping stone. The new stick controls are alright and there are a lot of options on 
 the ice. On-The-Fly line changes are an effective way to change the strategies you have planned 
 out on the ice and is a neat feature.
  
  Dynasties are fun to play, as you can control pretty much anything your players have to offer on 
 the ice, but for some reason you cannot control finances... though in 07 you could. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: martinhabs
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 12, 2008 7:39 pm PT
Review:  its not bad but 3 things could improve the gaming, the graphicks, and the game play. im not impress 
 with the graphicks i know its the pc version but i no they could do better, plus the controls u 
 have 2 way to pass the x button and the R2 on the joystick and plus u have speed boost in the game 
 on the xbox 360 version none of that, plus u cant even do the special deke THERES NO SPECIAL CONTROLS 
 :P ahhhhhhhhhhh i mean COME ON !!!!!!!! there`s nothing to unlock so its sooooooooooooo itsssssssssss 
 boring, and plus what would be cool if they could vintages games like NFL madden 2000, u are the 
 middle of a game and u have objectives to win the game obviously :P like for example, the habs 
 vs the NY rangers the biggest caome back of the century when the habs were down 5-0 in the 2nd 
 period and then micheal ryder scored (who had a hat trick that game) and when the habs won the 
 game in the shootout, those kind of objectives those are fun and i hope 2K sports wont do this 
 idea i want EA sports to do this idea :P
  but anyway its still a good game. anyway hope u like my review :P and GO HABS GO :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shaelon42
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 27, 2008 2:25 am PT
Review:  INTRODUCTION:
  NHL 08 Has come back to the PC with a brand new menu, new music, an updated AI, and that's pretty 
 much it. Play your favourite team and get on the ice to play a game against your favourite oponenent 
 and watch yourself win a hockey game 9 - 5 or 15 - 1 or 6 - 1. Not such a great way to start off 
 your career in NHL 08.
  
  PLAYABILITY:
  NHL 08 is very easy if you've already played a previous PC NHL Game. The skill stick that was improved 
 is annoying to use and can make user experience some what difficult.
  
  FEATURES:
  Other than the update Skill Stick, you got a new menu, updated music, the 07 - 08 NHL Schedule, 
 and a stronger goaltender AI, other than that, prepare for NHL 05 V. 3. 
  
  GRAPHICS:
  I can't believe how dissapointed I am in the graphics of this game, it is purely horrible, Even 
 a WIndows 95 Computer with decent hardware could run this game, what a rip off.
  
  RECOMEND RATING:
  This would defitnetly not be a First choice of game, not even a second, or 
 third neverless. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: afiq_04
Rating: 5
Date: Jul 18, 2008 10:42 am PT
Review:  I exprect more from NHL 08. The gameplay for NHL 08 is boring. I don`t know why. But I like NHL 
 2000 to 2002 more than NHL 08. Eventho NHL 2000 don`t have the grate graphic with it. NHL 2000 
 to 2002 is much more fun then NHL 08. I expect NHL 08 graphic would be a lot nicer but I guess 
 it is all the same like NHL 07. Izit a copy paste game. I mean like they copy the NHL 07 and paste 
 to make NHL 08? NHL 00 and NHL 02 is much more fun. The colour-commentator for NHL 02 is fun to 
 hear. Lots of humor. But in NHL 08? It iust like another EA Sports games, they are running out 
 of ideas to impress gamers. For example, I like FIFA 97 to 2001. FIFA 2002 to FIFA 08 dosen`t impress 
 me at all. Yeah the graphic is awesome from FIFA 01 but come on... You need to change the gameplay 
 and other features to impress fans. Plz fix all of this. I am still a EA fans. Plz fix the gameplay! 
 Make it fun to play! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WhiteTigerX
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 27, 2008 5:09 am PT
Review:  Just to start. I Didn't played NHL2007 or 2006. But i tried this one and i liked it.
  
  Well let's begin the review...
  
  For the first time the gameplay is kinda nice, but the enemy 
 AI is kinda stupid, and when they steal the puck usually theres a graphical error.
  The shooting itself its nice and the New Stick thing, well I have no use for it.
  
  The graphics 
 aren't really bad but they could be better for a 2008.
  
  The sound is also nice, lots of effects, the TV Hosts are kinda always saying the same, but that 
 doesn't interfere the game.
  
  The animations itself are kind of dumb  . 
  
  Gameplay -  6.5
  Graphics -  7.0
  Sound -  7.0
  
  For a First Timer, it's not Bad, but 
 i guess it could be better after reading other reviews, there hasn't been innovation since 2007 
 or 2006.
  Still for someone who played for the first time, doesn't care because they never played the others.
 
  
  And by the way there should be something like a tutorial and stuff for people who never played 
 , saw or talked about Hockey. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nick0091
Rating: 1
Date: Apr 12, 2008 11:46 pm PT
Review:  NHL 2001 is a ok for it's time, wait this is 2008... ohhhhh I thought I grabbed NHL 2001 again.
 
  
  a 1/10 I must be joking right? No this is seriously the worst game I have ever spent money on EVER! 
 Maybe there are worst games out there such as "big rigs" but as far as I am concerned this takes 
 the cake for several reasons. The EA NHL series has been around such a long time now, and I remember 
 back to the days of the SNES. I even remember playing nhl 2001 on the pc day after day.
  
  The sad thing is NHL 2001 has the same if not better graphics then NHL 2008. I am not joking, and 
 yes I did have everything up all the way. Players look ugly, ice is terrible, sticks, puck, ref, 
 graphical glitches, etc. Graphics arn't everything, but at least make it worthy of a game you made 
 7 years ago. Heck I would have been happen with graphics along the lines of last gen consoels such 
 as xbox, gamecube etc. These don't even come close.
  
  The sad thing is I only spent 13$ on this, and had incredibly low expectations knewing it was not 
 supose to be near as good as the console version. Even with these low expectations it beat them 
 big time.
  
  Now lets talk about content. Sure it has a fantasy draft, a few different leagues, create a player/team. 
 The real question is does it matter? No it doesn't. Not only have most of these features been around 
 for the longest time cough* nhl 2001. They were even deeper 7 years ago! How do you recycle a game 
 over 7 years, and have less content then what you started with? HOW? someone please explain this 
 to me.
  
  Oh wait the skill stick wasn't in NHL 2001 oh thank god it will save this game. All the skill stick 
 does is move your stick all the way left or right, and you shoot with it. Not overall useful or 
 impressive. Very tacked on, not that the feature itself is "bad" but they should have left it out 
 because it just looks ridiculous. All you do even on the hardest difficulty is skate really slow, 
 moving left right left right up the ice till you score. The best part is even if your moving as 
 slow as possible, if you hold your stick right your player stops skating. For some reason though 
 he never losses momentum. It looks so funny, actually I guess there is something good about this 
 game. It made me laugh at how bad the animations are.
  
  What about the actually gameplay? Well the skillstick is a bad feature but what if you don't use 
 it? how is the AI terrible. There like a bunch of monkies that are blindfolded. They basically 
 don't seem to have a clue with what is going on.
  
  Not to mention things like technical problems such as constant game crashes, that most people experince. 
 
  
  I know it is easier to find things wrong with a game then things good. This game however I just 
 don't know. I can usually not like a game but still find good things about it, like I can see why 
 people may like it, but this. 
  
  If you are looking for a more realistic hockey experince on the pc, why not try nhl 2002 or 2001 
 at least those games didn't suffer from technical problems, and ai retardation.
  
  Better yet, if you really want a recent hockey experince consoles are the way to go nhl 2k8 or 
 nhl 2008 would be excellent choices. If you really want a pc hockey experince, and are a huge hockey 
 nut like me, and can't live without. You will have ot make due with eastside hockey manager 2007.
 
  
  It may not let you play, but you can manager any nhl ,ahl, chl, international, etc hockey team 
 you want. Incredible game if that is what your into. 
  
  A final warning if you play this game you will most likely lose a lot of faith in humanity, and 
 with that note thanks for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beer_tree
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 12, 2008 5:20 am PT
Review:  I played this on the 360 for the first time at my friends house, and it was a great experience. 
 I thought, since I am a PC gamer, I would go out to buy it for my computer because I really liked 
 the game and rosters and everything of that sort. What a mistake. Nothing was alike, features are 
 missing, graphics not even close to the 360 version, and usually PC's can run a little better than 
 a console. But EA keeps on disappointing their small core of sports fans on the PC. Pretty soon 
 they will have to stop making these games because no one is going to buy them unless they make 
 them very similar or exactly the same as their more popular consoles. Computers can handle better 
 graphics and deserve the same game as the 360 or PS3 users. I dont see why EA is going to 'jip' 
 the computer users out of $40 for a new game. Until EA fixes this, I am not going to even consider 
 buying one of their games again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: staypuft44
Rating: 1.5
Date: Mar 4, 2008 10:39 am PT
Review:  When NHL 06 came out, fans of the game were happy nevertheless, even though there was little change 
 from 05. When NHL 07 came around, fans were annoyed, that all they've seen is another roster update 
 with a minor tweak, when suddenly XBOX and PS3 users were anointed with a completely new product.
 
  
  With NHL 08's release, the franchise on the PC has hit rock bottom. For the third year in a row, 
 NHL fans were shafted heartily. And it was only rubbed in further when the next generation product 
 on the consoles has achieved even greater heights in its own right.
  
  How can EA Sports, whose flagship series' in Madden and NHL continue to insult the PC gamers who 
 follow the titles as closely as any one user who owns a console?
  
  The game doesn't deserve a valid review, the company should be lambasted for their ignorance and 
 complete lack of respect for the power of the PC gaming fellowship. Do you think Guild Wars gets 
 5 million users because the PC arena is a weak gaming market? What about World of Warcraft with 
 a whopping 10 million?
  
  Half-Life and its sequel Half-Life 2 have been widely considered the best games ever made, and 
 were brought into legend by none other than: PC gamers.
  
  It's time for EA to shake it's head and get back into the game, start treating every market with 
 respect equally. Because the bad taste left in my mouth will easily carry over to the time when 
 I plan on owning a console. That's something that EA truly doesn't understand. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tieio
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 6, 2008 1:43 pm PT
Review:  Did EA spend any time at all on this game? It looks like they were developing the console game, 
 stopped about half way through and called it done in order to concentrate on the console game solely.
 
  
  I am seeing a big trend in apathy in EA sports lately, more so than usual and again I am sad this 
 is the only hockey game for PC because a nice alternative would be welcome. As it stands I will 
 not be playing a hockey game on PC because this one has so many bugs and glitches it is almost 
 not even playable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 69655
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 18, 2007 12:48 pm PT
Review:  its an ok game, for the ps3 and xbox 360 its mind blowing but its so so on the pc. BUT PEOPLE its 
 not the same at ALL things did change not alot, the fighting is the same as 06 07 but on the next 
 gen its way diffrent the rosters are updated and the graphics are a little bit better BUT not alot 
 the faces look more human and the gameplay is not cartoonie AND THANK GOD ! the game is more hard 
 instead of 9 to 1 game its 4 to 1 more realistic. but in the end of it all this well be a fun game 
 for a while but then you will put the game in the shelf and it well die out untill next season. 
 i have the 06 for xbox and when i played 08 for pc there is a lot of change! but i have played 
 07 and NO change at all except jerseys (and the new jerseys are crap) and rosters (edit lines are 
 never fun) and graphics (8/10 for that )
  
  i give it a 7/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Zills-
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 12, 2007 3:35 pm PT
Review:  NHL 08 by EA Sports does not use the PC's graphical capabilities very well. There is hope though 
 as next year the team that made 08 is at contracts end. The next team will basically not make NHL 
 09 PC or make it next gen. But back to NHL 08 for the PC. The game has a whole new soundtrack and 
 look and I for one am a fan of both. They got away from the EMO $h! t they had last year which for 
 me is a plus. The create a player/team has not changed one bit which I found really disappointing, 
 because on the other systems you can change and test stick curves, skates, etc. The cinema-tics 
 are 100% identical to 07, but the announcers have changed quite a bit. Now to get to the game play 
 the goalies are way better then in 07 there movement is more realistic and to me that is the major 
 bright spot on the game. The skill stick is a cool feature but I can't say I am 100% comfortable 
 with it. It can feel odd at times and seems poorly thrown together. For instance the goalie cant 
 pass with it he needs a button to pass further then 2 feet. The slap shot works really well but 
 I find the wrist shot rather difficult, as you have to change it depending on the handness of the 
 player. The AHL feature is poorly thrown together as it has no connectivity to dynasty mode. All 
 the players that are in the AHL cant be recalled in dynasty mode so you might as well put them 
 all on your NHL team. Lastly dynasty mode. Two major changes have been made to dynasty mode. The 
 first the fact you can have a trade block. This is a list of players that you have made public 
 you dont want and they will be more inclined to send you trade offers including these players. 
 As well you can see players other teams have on the trade block. I think this is a great addition. 
 The second is weekly goals. Your owner will send you a goal every week and if you complete it he 
 will boost one of your upgrades (Scouting, Team Gym, Goalie Coach etc.) Again I feel this as well 
 is a great feature. If you look through the game small things will strike you as different but 
 I have stated the major ones. My final comment for this game is I like it I feel it is an upgrade 
 over 07 but it is your choice. This is not a must have game by far but if your a hockey fan and 
 dont have a 360 this is the next best thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skoltz
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 17, 2007 4:11 pm PT
Review:  Graphics and player profiles could be better. Sound is more than adequate.
  The artificial intelligence of computer has been enhanced compared to previous versions. Players 
 reactions to plays seem a lot more realistic. The game sometimes grabs the puck late in a period 
 and will not relinquish control. This only happens late in periods. The fans still cheer and look 
 happy when their team is being crushed 13-4. I think we could improve the fan interaction a bit. 
 You cannot tell what the score is by looking at the crowd. They appear happy not matter what the 
 score is.
  
  Overall a definate improvement in realism. If you are expecting to push your video or sound cards 
 with this game forget it. But sometimes Sunday drives are nice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ardshael
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 10, 2007 1:49 am PT
Review:  EA should be ashamed of themselves for this years version of their NHL series. The PC version is 
 barely a step above the 2007. The graphics looks like they are a few years old and the AI is still 
 pretty stupid. The addition of the skill stick is neat but for a player that doesn't use a controller, 
 it doesn't affect me. The ability to manage my minor league team is the best addition in my opinion. 
 It does give a nice, albeit small, addition to the dynasty play. I've played both the PC and PS3 
 versions of NHL 08 and I can safely say that the PC version doesn't even come close to the PS3 
 version. The AI on the PS3 feels more in tuned with the play and the animations and graphics are 
 far superior. PS3 also has an experience based system where players gain experience for their play 
 in games. This is also missing on the PC.
  
  The only thing that saves '08 is that EA created a fundamentally fun game in '07 and the formula 
 works. One thing is for sure, if '09 produces another regurtiated version, they can forget about 
 making a '10 version cause no one in their right mind will even consider getting it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: conny83
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 6, 2007 7:02 am PT
Review:  I have wanted this game for a long time when i first heard about all the new cool stick movements 
 &amp; the ability to skate around on the ice where you can feel the skates take control. And the 
 player can turn around with the puck, making really beautiful Gretzky moves.
  
  But the grafik hasen't change in some years now, whitch can't stand for. The worst thing in the 
 game are the national play-dresses. What did EA Sports think of. Same **** jerseys in last years 
 NHL 07. It's no fun to play in national tournaments with crappy **** for uniform. I'm from Sweden! 
 Have you een the Sweeds unreal uniforms. Uchh....
  
  In NHL 2005 there were every copy of each countrys' uniform. How can they take away some stuff 
 in the game whose been the before. Sad, sad, sad...
  
  Fun game to play with friends anyhow, but EA Sports must use all the power and include every aspect 
 of the game! Small simple stuff such as more bigger importent elements of the best game in the 
 world ....................../ CS 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aschuhart
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 6, 2007 11:29 pm PT
Review:  I remembering playing NHL 93 and loving it on my SNES. Ironically enough though, I rarely would 
 buy the newer versions... in fact I only have bought 3 NHL games... ever. First was NHL 93 which 
 is a classic game of course. The second in the series I bought was NHL 96. Now being 11 years ago 
 I had high expectations for NHL 08 considering I haven't played any of the prior NHL games since 
 and I was actually let down... but not because of the game play.
  
  NHL 96 had a very nice interface. It was sleek with great graphics (at the time) with many options. 
 You could view individual teams with full statistics and most even had video clips of the teams 
 greatest shots, hits, saves, and wins. NHL 08 however has a very week interface and really put 
 me off to a bad start. In fact, even with dual 8800GTX's and all settings maxed the interface just 
 looks like an EARLY 90's style interface. I know it's not really something that should matter a 
 whole lot, but for me it just really gets on my nerves. I was happy to see that much of the gameplay 
 really hasn't changed much since NHL 96. I was able to jump right in and re adjust in a matter 
 of minutes. In fact, it's essentially the same game with a few minor differences which, for me, 
 I enjoy. However I do feel sorry for those who have bought each new game in the series as it looks 
 like there really hasn't been anything drastic to change except for the different play modes. It's 
 really not a bad game at all and I do enjoy it very much but I don't understand why companies waste 
 money producing these new games when really all they are doing is just updating the roster and 
 adding another year on to the title. They should honestly just hold off yearly production and just 
 offer patches with roster updates and such until there's a big enough chance in either graphics 
 or gameplay to warrent the sale of a new game in the series. **NOTE: after playing this game for 
 awhile longer, your teammate AI is awful at times. I actually saw my players skate AWAY from the 
 puck. Also the computer seems to have ENDLESS speed and will usually beat you to the puck 9 out 
 of 10 times even though you are speed skating as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheRussianRoket
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 30, 2007 4:46 pm PT
Review:  As everyone else has suggested, the game is quite similar to the next previous years. What i do 
 not agree with though, is that this makes the game bad. The team has many years ago made a great 
 game, and they have tried their best to upgrade the game without leaving the fundamentals it was 
 successful with.
  
  NHL 08 is simple a patch, that tries to lower the problems the minor upgrades have been causing. 
 The game hasen't fundamentally changed in 4-5 years. It was as great as it was back in the day, 
 it's just that people expect dramatic improvements every years. Lately, the gaming market has been 
 driven by gaming systems. As a result, the money EA spends on this game for the PC are purely symbolic. 
 This is the last game to recieve any effort and is on the back burner. It simply inherits some 
 improvements from the previous years' console version. A much better might come. In the next two 
 years or so. Don't expect radicalism though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theakseffect
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 27, 2007 2:25 am PT
Review:  For me this is my first NHL game, ever. We don't get to see much of the sport irl where I'm from 
 (Netherlands) which means that playing this game was also a bit of a reintroduction to the game 
 for me (cause of course I have watched it a few times i/t past @ the olympics etc) and I have to 
 say it's not a bad one, at all. With very decent graphics and -gameplay (I'm also new to the using 
 the right analog to shoot) , I really have to say that I like it. A bad part is that though I just 
 started playing the game and -I am still learning the easiest way to score etc, I feel like raising 
 the diff lvl already (think its at normal/medium (deff not on easy anyway) ) .
  
  So in my opinion, if you're fairly new to the game and the sports, you really should give this 
 a try, especially if, like me, you're able to get it 4 free .
  
  To give u a little bit more of an idea of my gameplay experience below is some info on my pc config.
 
  
  Asrock P4i65PE, P4HT 2.8E, 1.5GB Corsair DDR RAM (PC3200) , Asus X800XL 256MB, Sweex 5.1 soundcard, 
 250GB Maxtor HDD 7200, 80GB Maxtor HDD 7200. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Drew_Atreides
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 23, 2007 7:54 am PT
Review:  I should preface this with I lost interest in playing thru an entire season single player years 
 ago'. I've played thru the game and won the Stanley Cup about a gazillion times in a gazillion 
 different iterations. The only time i really have fun with these games now is when I'm playing 
 with (or against) someone else. In that regard, this game is fantastic. Very easy to log onto the 
 servers and get a game going online within moments. I'm getting my money's worth and then some. 
 The game is definitely better then folks would have you believe. Sure it's graphics aren't up to 
 par with it's Next-gen console counterparts, but in this day and age it's becoming less and less 
 coming for people to need to upgrade their rigs as quickly as they used to, so this insures that 
 a broader range of players can play the game at it's optimum settings. The graphics are good enough 
 to get the job done. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: foever86
Rating: 4.5
Date: Sep 22, 2007 3:12 pm PT
Review:  If you are the fan of NHL series, you probably heard of the hype EA has been making about their 
 PS3 and Xbox 360 version of the game. You would also probably know that their PC version has not 
 been making any progress for the last few years and EA has decided to not make any progress for 
 another year.
  
  I am sorry to let everyone know that this year's NHL is just another revision of last year's NHL 
 07, which was already the revision of NHL 06. If you have ever played NHL 07 or NHL 06, you will 
 notice that every single thing is ported from its previous series; from main menu to in-game rink 
 board advertisement. How bad is it? Well, the game intro is the same, rinks are the same, commentaries 
 are the same, graphic is the same goal ceremonies are the same and goal horns are the same. This 
 year's dynasty mode is again the carbon copy of the last year's dynasty mode, so I don't think 
 there would be any reason to explain how horrible it is here again.
  
  Only things I noticed were slightly better player faces (for instance, Vancouver's Kevin Bieksa 
 gets his own face instead of the generic one... even though he looks horrible...) slightly better 
 penalty calls and slightly improved game play.
  
  Skating seems to be changed a little bit. If you were skating at full speed, it will be little 
 bit harder to control your player compared to the last year's. Penalty calls became a bit realistic 
 as I have already seen officials making calls like Charging, Cross-checking, Roughing, and Interference 
 relatively accurately compared to the last year's. Goalies have improved compared to last year's, 
 in my opinion, even tough they still do allow soft goals from time to time. I have actually played 
 as Vancouver against Calgary, and Luongo allowed 2 goals in 31 shots. Pretty impressive..
  
  However, from consumer's point of view, doing Ctrl-A, Ctrl-C, Ctrl-V on their source code and 
 making a few changes is not acceptable, especially if you have been doing that for at least 5 years. 
 At this point, there is absolutely no reason for EA to not port the portion of Xbox 360 contents 
 to PC, if not all. For this reason, you shouldn't be spending your money on NHL 08 unless if you 
 are willing to pay $30 for the slight improvement from NHL 07. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GreenDazed86
Rating: 3
Date: Sep 22, 2007 7:34 am PT
Review:  This game is a complete piece of garbage. If you want NHL '08, get it for a next-gen console if 
 you have one. The differences between the console versions and the PC version are vast: the console 
 version has better graphics, better gameplay, better realism, and pretty much better everything 
 else. The gameplay is so fast and ridiculous that I don't even think they should be able to call 
 this a hockey sim . In fact, the ONLY thing I can think of that's good about the PC version is 
 that they included the German League, where the 360 version does not. I can't believe EA has the 
 nerve to charge $40 for this game... it's disgusting. They need to get their act together and put 
 some effort towards the PC versions of their games.
  
  Bottom Line: don't buy it. Don't even think about buying it. I wish there was a who cares selection 
 for the difficulty, because I sure as hell don't. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dalmakgpo
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 29, 2007 6:43 am PT
Review:  In my classification, down there, I have put it: Been there, done that . Why? I felt like Neo when 
 he saw that cat for the second time - Deya Vu my little vulcanized rubber disc .
  I just came back from hair cutter; o boy, I had nasty antennas all over my head. It was year 2000 
 and I got my NHL 2k as a present. I played it and played it and... passed away. Well, not exactly. 
 But, those were good time.
  Today I have played with Red Wings on NHL08 and beated Carolina 12:2. Ok, some1 will say: You are 
 a nasty player . He he... I am!!! Then I remembered and asked myself something: Wait a minute, 
 why I am playing 2k again? I have installed 08 and now my antennas are back!!! 
  I wanna be booooold!!!!
  They have make the game like this:
  NHL 2000 + NHL 2007 + My money 
 = Deya Vu * 1M Antennas.
  1. AI is exact as one from NHL2k.
  2. Graphics and sounds are same as one from 07 (Hey, commentators know new jokes!) .
  3. Not only 
 my money - Its your money too...
  4. Deya Vu is here so pray to all mighty we gonna survive! I just hope some1 will KityCheck soon.
 
  5. Antennas? You don't wanna know...
  So to conclude it: I gave the Score: 5.0 because of that AI from 2k. One suggestion to EA: you 
 better make a patch then the game. Period.
  Thx 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rigid38
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 20, 2007 8:08 pm PT
Review:  waste of your money. get a brain EA. this game is recycled garbage from 2004.
  
  what a joke of a game
  
  go to hell EA. stop recycling games. when was the last time you made 
 an NHL game worth buying? 2004? maybe... i can't really recall because ALL YOUR NHL GAMES LOOK THE 
 SAME.
  
  get a brain EA, all of you that helped do NOTHING to improve this game should be punched in the 
 face for making such a vomit inducing pile of crap.
  
  i am NEVER buying an EA game again. to hell with you fools. learn to make a game worth playing 
 for more than 5 retarded minutes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dufvasven
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 20, 2007 12:53 pm PT
Review:  The Gamespot review covers it pretty nicely. This is the NHL 07 (or let's say NHL 06...) engine 
 with slighly improved graphics&amp; animations, basic skill stick, a bit better AI and the AHL.
 
  
  One thing that I think is worth noting about the Gamespot review is that this game doesn't have 
 to be lightning fast and super unrealistic. It's very easy to go into the gameplay options and 
 change the game speed slider to 0, the burst to 0, the acceleration to 0 (or 1) and then do some 
 other minors changes (such as maximum defensive slides (and rising the shooting on diffucult mode) ) . 
 By doing that, you get a game that looks quite a lot like hockey - much more than NHL2K on default 
 mode.
  
  The skill stick is not as great as the Xbox360 one, but at least you are finally abe to move the 
 puck on your stick and deke the goalie in new ways. The goalies look quite good in NHL 08 actually 
 and now are a lot better at moving and saving shots. The animations for the goalies are notably 
 better than the ones in NHL 07. Combine that with better AI (especially on offense) and even experienced 
 players have a hard time beating the computer.
  
  The thing that disappoints PC gamers the most is, however, probably that EA never made an effort 
 to advertise this game as different from the other versions. In other words, until the game hit 
 the shelves, few knew that this was just another patch and not the same new great game that NHL 
 08 is on Xbox360 &amp; PS3. Fans have all the rights to be mad at what seems to be false marketing 
 - or rather, an attempt to not let the fact out that this was not the NHL 08 people had been waiting 
 for.
  
  So, is this game worth its price? Definitely not. Is it the best game so far in the NHL PC series: 
 Sure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hockey15LSW
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 20, 2007 6:15 am PT
Review:  I know everyone doesn't like this because this game is exactly like NHL 07 which was exactly like 
 NHL 06 but i liked those games. NHL 08 has new jerseys for  new 
 logo for San Jose, and Washington. I don't know if they're actually different. Okay, if you got NHL 
 07 and did the shootout then you might think that 08 has improved on the shootout a bit. The puck 
 doesn't just drop from the sky or anything it just appears on the ground. The music is just like 
 the trak from 07 just with different songs. The gameplay is kind of the same. The different is 
 the defensemen are a lot harder to deke out. Oh yeah, the one on one skill stick doesn't even come 
 on PC 08. Also the goalies for 08 are a lot harder to beat. In 06 because of the skill stick I would 
 win 10-2. In 07 I would win 6-3. In 08 now I win 4-1, 3-2. You get the picture. The graphics are about 
 the same. the coaches look better. Oh and if you pay attention to the AHL. Good news for ya. You 
 can play as an AHL team in dynasty mode or season mode. Well don't pay attention to Gamespot's 
 review. Well sorta what they are saying is true but still, NHL 08 is a great game. If you have not 
 got 06 or 07. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordkai
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 19, 2007 2:03 pm PT
Review:  I was actually excited about the NHL game this year and the graphics I saw posted all over the 
 internet. But now I feel duped, betrayed and I want my money back to say the least. The game's 
 graphics has a completely outdated look to it and runs just as well on my laptop as it does on 
 my desktop with absolutely no graphical differences between the two computers. The gameplay isn't 
 too bad but only because I took a year off from playing the NHL series, now though I wish I hadn't 
 even attempted the come back. EA has abused it's PC player base for the last time with this poor 
 attempt at a game, no not a sports game but a game in general. I'm sure it's nothing at all similar 
 with the Next Gen systems version and that's a real shame because what they did here only shows 
 their commitment to their customers. With this release I won't be going back to an EA sports title 
 for a good long while. This was just a piss poor attempt at making money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: graydon20_basic
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 18, 2007 10:35 pm PT
Review:  Grow up EA Sports and port your next-generation games to PC, you're almost 3 years late. I'd recommend 
 just buying NHL 2000 for $0.01 on eBay and updating the rosters yourself. The game has the same, 
 if not even more bugs/glitches than last year's version, and it actually plays crappier, and I've 
 upgraded my computer over the summer. The online play was not even worth it for me.
  
  BTW, I have this game for Xbox 360 as well, and thankfully the 360 version is very responsive, 
 and for the first time in a long time, is fun. The PC Version is horrendous, they shouldn't have 
 even bothered to release it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Metallica_Dan
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 18, 2007 10:19 pm PT
Review:  Wow, I just read the review by GameSpot and it's pretty harsh... And 100% accurate. There is no 
 point in getting this game... If it wasn't for user content, the NHL series wouldn't survive (forget 
 about EA's laughable Roster updates - there are better sites out there) . When will PC users get 
 a good hockey game? Why did EA Sports skip out on making this game for the Wii? The PC should have 
 the best NHL game, not the worst. EA is riding on the great reputation they have built over the 
 years for sports sims and are flushing it down the drain... A reputation will only last you for 
 so long. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: misterlaus
Rating: 4
Date: Sep 18, 2007 8:52 pm PT
Review:  Hhhhhhmmmmmmm i'm gonna be as non biased as possible on this review regardless of the disappointment. 
 Last year when EA decided to come out with next gen graphics for the 360 and ps3, they said on 
 every article I read that us PC gamers would have to wait till 08 to experience this improvement 
 in the game. Well, I got Madden 08 then I got NHL 08 hoping they would keep their word and guess 
 what??? Same exact gaming engine that has been used for years now! The overall gaming experience 
 is ok. I mean, I have played like 15 games so far and it's not that bad but in reality it's almost 
 the same exact game as nhl 07 and nhl 06. The onetimers are ok to some extent, the goalie control 
 has gotten a bit better but the defensive AI is just whacked. I am 10-1 on my dynasty on difficult, 
 averaging between 6-8 goals per game on 5 minute periods. Definitely not realistic scores. The 
 computer has some stupid glitch goals from pretty far out which kill my chance of even getting 
 a shut out. So far, the lowest I have been able to keep the computer's score has been 3 on any 
 given game. Even if I'm playing superb defense, they manage to get one or two glitch goals from 
 close to the blue line on simple shots that would be stopped in a real game. I don't know what 
 else to say. I've been playing EA hockey since nhl 93 on Sega. I haven't missed buying this game 
 one year but the last good game EA has made for us pc hockey fans was nhl 04. After that, there 
 hasn't even been an attempt to make a game that leaves us amazed by the outstanding gameplay and 
 graphics. What else can we do? I see the same feedback in EA's hockey forum with the same suggestions 
 year after year and nothing gets done to even try and satisfy our needs for a good game. Honestly, 
 EA should just stop making nhl hockey for us pc gamers. It is obvious all their efforts go into 
 satisfying console gamers so why do they keep disappointing us? The game isn't horrible I still 
 play one or two games per day but it's just not an improvement since nhl 04 came out 4 years ago. 
 Yet, we are foolish enough to keep wasting our money in hopes of a better game year after year. 
 It's almost comical at this point LOL..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jordo08wii
Rating: 4
Date: Sep 18, 2007 7:09 pm PT
Review:  If you have 07, dont ge this game, get a roster update for 07. It is pretty well exactly the same, 
 the menus look horrible and EA gives us the same stuff as weve got for the last 2 years. The graphics 
 isnt changed, barely anything is... you cant even use AHL on dynasty. I was playing 08 on 360 and 
 that is great and it makes me jealous that it isnt that great on computer. 360 has create a play, 
 great graphics, great gameplay, excellent AI, excellent creation zone and a good dynasty... what 
 does the pc and ps2 version have... it has a fanasty draft mode... So if EA doesnt make the next 
 years game next gen, i will never buy from EA Sports again 
::::::

::::::
UserName: belekoy
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 18, 2007 6:35 pm PT
Review:  the new nhl game, 08, before release, had this hype about the skill stick and goalie mode as well 
 as the create-a-play. It was all hype. When it was released, it became nothing more than nhl 07 
 with ai improvement and new animation as well as layout.. besides that is nothing else. What is 
 really dissapointing is the skill stick which all the people are rooting for. It is not available 
 to pc gamers. EA only modified the control so that u can shoot and move the stick with the right 
 analog. I was so disheartened to spend $40 bucks for an improved nhl 07. i mean, any modder can 
 do what ea did to nhl 08. it is really dissapointing, really. And when people express their comment 
 about the game on the official forum, they were just locked out. EA really descriminated all of 
 us pc gamers, seriously and i dont think any1 likes being descrimnated.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheStranger
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 16, 2007 8:38 pm PT
Review:  I can't help but think that the same people who designed the game have never bothered to play this 
 piece of cr*p. I love that in dynasty mode they implemented the salary cap; however, they then 
 make it next to impossible to track your current cap.
  
  Fantasy draft to start, you're screwed you. It tells you your team salary (currently) but not what 
 the drafted players will cost.
  
  Make sure you review your pending trades ahead of time because everything again is on different 
 screen, making it a real pain if the team counteroffers...
  
  Besides this HUGE annoyance, the gameplay and graphics aren't any improvement over last years. 
 Not to mention they didn't bother making a wii version whose motion sensing might have at least 
 changed gameplay enough to make it a separate title from NHL 07. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Syn0069
Rating: 1.5
Date: Sep 16, 2007 3:35 pm PT
Review:  This is just plain sad... its the same NHL 2006 game with an updated roster and a few minor tweaks... 
 dont be fooled by the images displayed on gamespot as they are from the xbox360/PS3 version.
  
  The graphics havent changed since 2006, there is still no support for SLi configuration (my 
 framerate drops to 1/3 when i enable it) and still has problems with dual core processors as well.
 
  
  EA Sports and 2K Games have shunned me away from their products for the next few years.
  
  If you want my oppinion, this game was a total waste of money for me, as I own NHL 2K7.... 
 so I find myself owning 2 versions of the same game.. which is very disappointing to me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vampira506
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 16, 2007 11:17 am PT
Review:  I got this game just two days ago for the PC, been enjoying it, wasn't overly impressed with the 
 graphics, they're not quite up to the par of NHL 2k7 for my Xbox 360 but they're passable.
  
  Gameplay I found to be fun and enjoyable, using the analog stick for shooting and checking 
 took some getting used to but I found it better than 2k7's method of shooting which relied heavily 
 on one timers.
  
  Audio was, well good, I haven't seen anything too innovative in a hockey game as far as sound goes, 
 so its just... yeah good.
  
  Overall, I just find NHL 08 to be a solid hockey game, don't know how it stands up to NHL 2k8 due 
 to me being too cheap to purchase more than one hockey game a year, Just wish it had the classic 
 teams that NHL 2k7 had (with the REAL names instead of just the numbers, that would be great) . 
 If you like hockey games and didn't play 07, I suggest picking up this game, but from the looks 
 of things its just a re-hash of 07, so go find 07 in your local bargain bin 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cdndragoon
Rating: 4
Date: Sep 16, 2007 10:09 am PT
Review:  Every year since 1997, I go out and buy EA Sports' latest incarnation of the NHL franchise and 
 every year, I've been regretting it about an hour later. I can't believe that I was such a chump 
 and did it yet again. Although graphics look good and the franchise mode is supposed to have been 
 tweaked slightly, it still have the same feel as last year (which was a rehash of the previous 
 year) . The biggest gap that I've found is in the franchise mode. Other brands have emphasized this 
 feature with much more success (2K Sports and Sports Interactive come to mind immediately) . For 
 example, salaries are not correct, players who have been in the league for several years still 
 do not have their faces mapped, and the management aspect does not reflect the real minor league 
 development. Even though EA Sports got the rights to AHL prospects (and you can play as the AHL 
 teams) , those players are not available as NHL call-ups. This is very frustrating for those of 
 us who are used to the depth of game play that comes from Eastside Hockey Manager. The actual playing 
 of the game is virtually identical to 07, so for comments related to that I suggest that you read 
 any of the reviews for that game. There's really no difference. EA Sports really had an opportunity 
 to reinvent the franchise, but chose not to do so, but rather rehashed the same old game with the 
 same old product. It's too bad that they failed yet again to listen to the masses clamouring for 
 more depth and even worse that I've fallen for the same old trick yet again.
  
  I'll say yet again that I probably won't buy their product next year, but I'll probably fail to 
 keep that promise to myself. One of these days I'll get annoyed enough to actually deny EA Sports 
 their money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dtrinh
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 16, 2007 5:00 am PT
Review:  It's another abysmal year where EA has decided to put no effort in the further development of the 
 NHL franchise for the PC platform. The game has been boxed as 2008 when in reality there has been 
 no real changes to the game since 2006. Same control scheme, same graphics, same announcers (we 
 love you Jim Hughson, but listening to you for 3 years is getting quite boring) , same play-by-plays, 
 and ... well ... you guessed it - the game core mechanics has yet to change and no real graphic 
 update has been made over the past 3 years.
  
  However, they did manage to update the music, the interface, and the current rosters. But what 
 even makes it more lackluster in this disappointing game is the fact that the developers did not 
 include the new logos/jerseys for this year! The game however, is completely different for the 
 XBox360 and PS3 versions.
  
  If you REALLY want to save some money, buy NHL 2006/2007 in the bargain bin at your local EB Games. 
 Because you are not missing anything new. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killahospital
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 16, 2007 3:42 am PT
Review:  Now I know the PC versions of NHL 07 and NHL 08 are 'Current Gen' as the developers at EA chose 
 to brush up NHL 06 -&gt; 07 -&gt; 08. Its the same game. As the years progressed the defense will 
 poke check more often, the goaltenders move across much better, other than that and some roster 
 updates? If you have played NHL 06 you have played NHL 08. Therefore if the last EA Sports NHL 
 you played was NHL '05 or earlier, I'd recommend this game.
  
  As I started up the game I noticed a few changes with new menu splash screens and a new EMO music 
 selection. As I began 'Dynasty Mode' I noticed the rosters were brutally incorrect. Now for instance 
 I chose the Vancouver Canucks, and notice that the team has Jan Bulis, Brent Sopel. NONE OF THE 
 PROSPECTS ARE PART OF THE TEAM. To slightly double check in amazement, I looked at Anahiem Ducks 
 and noticed Bobby Ryan is nowhere to be found. What the hell?
  
  As I began a game, all the opening sequences were identical to 06/07 and the game-play and graphics 
 seemed frighteningly similar to NHL 07. Wait a minute? Aren't the players supposed to be wearing 
 the new RBK Edge jerseys? Canucks are wearing the same ones. As I look at Roberto Luongo, who is 
 probably now one of the most popular goaltenders in the league, I noticed that they didnt even 
 bother personalizing his hockey gear. He's wearing white **** pads and a generic Canucks mask from 
 EA NHL 05?
  That is just brutally lazy. Lack of respect for the consumer. Shame on you EA, and I've been a 
 loyal EA franchise customer since NHL Hockey for Genesis.
  
  So at $40 you are getting NHL 07, packaged as NHL 08.
  What you recieve in this 'update' is a 
 07/08 rosters with many players assigned to teams incorrectly, a fantasy draft option, a harder 
 defense and goaltending. That is all. Couldn't you just offer a patch to update 06, 07 etc?
  
  Bottom Line: A great game that got boring in 06. No effort or care taken to really improve 
 the product, overall lazy attempt. If you have only a PC and havent played any recent NHL's pick 
 it up. If you have? Punch the product right off the shelf. I lost a lot of respect for EA after 
 they again attempt to rip off their loyal customers. I don't know if i even want to buy a 360 and 
 NHL 08 for 360, as they don't really deserve my business. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Braxen
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 16, 2007 2:21 am PT
Review:  Wow has this game started a riot or what? EA are accused of misinformation, and NHLfans are mad/disappointed 
 of getting a current gen game when so many of us have semi- or new gen computers.
  
  On to the game.
  
  Graphics: About the same as last 2-3 years. Some minor updates with uniforms, 
 the ice looks better and other small stuff. But really the graphics aren&acute; t bad at all, just 
 bad in comparison to the new gen version.
  
  Sounds: Same commentary. A few strange soundFX (bodychecking sometimes sounds like dropping a box 
 of spaghetti to the ground) otherwise the soundFX work just fine. Maybe some added ambient sounds 
 when the puck hits the rink?
  
  Gameplay: Same feeling as previous years, but with a simplified version of last years skill stick 
 being put in. It works pretty much ok, and adds a new feel to the game which is much needed. Players 
 move a bit better I think, don&acute; t know what has been tweaked but the gameplay, especially 
 with the added skillstik feels much better. Controls feel tighter. Not as good as NHL07 for X360 
 but definately an improvement from NHL07!
  
  Features: New gaming modes (shootout f. ex) and create a player/team and other goodies at least 
 gives an indication that EAsports didn&acute; t go the easy route 100% and decided to add some new 
 features.
  
  Value: With pretty low system requirements and a pretty low price I can&acute; t say that this game 
 is total crap. If we hadn&acute; t had this- and last years next gen versions I bet people would 
 give this game a much much higher score. I think that it&acute; s a good game, well worthy of buying 
 if you don&acute; t own a next gen system. If you have a 360/ps3 that version will cost a bit more 
 but give more satisfaction.
  
  For my own part, I play the X360 version singleplayer, and PC version online against my old rival... and 
 for that it gets the job done just fine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cowboygeneral
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 15, 2007 10:52 pm PT
Review:  Ok here we go. 1) EA should be sued and i hope the company goes out of business. Im serious. I 
 dont care if the employees lose their jobs or not. Not any more. I have had the lies, the false 
 promises, etc. Heres an analogy, Its like the eagles winning the super-bowl... everyone here in 
 philly says This is the year .... just like this game ... EGM said this is the year EA gets its 
 act together , but they failed to mention that they ONLY DID IT FOR THE XBOX 360 version and PS3 
 VErSION!!!!!
  
  The PC version is an exact REPLICA of 2007. I cannot believe that they have actually went this 
 far as to not edit anything. Period. The controls have actually gotten worse, the graphics are 
 exactly the same, the sound still sucks, and the music is not even sub-par. The visuals that are 
 posted here on GAMESPOT. COM and EBGAMES. COM are actually the xbox 360 screens. The first thing 
 i noticed when i started playing the game was.... where are the super graphics like in the picture? 
 EA UNDERSTAND THIS: YOU WILL BE EXPECTING A MEGA-LAWSUIT IN THE NEAR FUTURE MARK MY WORDS. Thus 
 my felllow gamers, please im begging whoever reads this.... DO NOT UNDER ANY CIRCUMSTANCES BUY 
 THIS GAME YOU WILL BE VERY SORRY!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Beorncid
Rating: 2.5
Date: Sep 15, 2007 9:28 pm PT
Review:  NHL 06 was fun as **** and then what comes out after? oh yes 07... almost the exact same game but 
 then there is 08. At least 06 to 07 had different commentary and edited roster stats. just look 
 at Ottawas roster, the exact same stars as last year even tho Redden and Mezeros had a terrible 
 season.
  
  The new jerseys for some of the teams arnt even in the game. THE NEW JERSEYS FOR SOME OF THE TEAMS 
 ARNT EVEN IN THE GAME. The commentary is the EXACT same as 07, i mean jesus EA is about nothing 
 but profits. PC = low profit, Xbox 360 = High profit. some of the best games were original and 
 wernt meant to be this new blockbuster game like command and conquer (now EA and sucks)
  
  FINAL WORD: NHL 08 IS 07; NO PASSION! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reddevils31
Rating: 2
Date: Sep 15, 2007 3:30 pm PT
Review:  Nothing new from 07. No new create a player. Tried to implement skill stick but controls don't 
 work properly. Can't change controls fully and some keys you cant change at all. Jerseys are not 
 good and are made as if they were lazy. Could make it look like they tried harder on making the 
 game. Computers are better now, you can make games like the 360. Try making a good nhl game for 
 pc like you did back in 98, 99, 2000. Those were great games back then, make great games now. Goalies 
 are still horrible and being goalie is very bad. Very easy to score still and the player AI never 
 changed like the 360 did. Very disappointed in the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: qucolg
Rating: 2
Date: Sep 15, 2007 3:19 pm PT
Review:  I love hockey, and I love computers. This game is, then, a heartbreak in so many ways. I played 
 NHL 07 day in and day out, content with my keyboard and my screen. Whence goeth the PC hockey game? 
 This is so transparently recycled, it scares me about my future. I have a lot of time ahead of 
 me, but if this dictates the trend of improvements in the world, I might as well end my life now.
 
  
  The biggest giveaway is the commentary - horrible, as it has always been - EXACTLY how it has always 
 been. It is the same batch of play-by-play and commentary recordings as were used in the last iteration, 
 with a few names added. Names are shamelessly butchered (Milan Michalek, Toni Lydman, and Henrik 
 Tallinder had their identities vocally excreted on, as I noticed within the first 30 seconds of 
 a game) .
  
  It also came to my attention that the console games were much, much different. Much, much BETTER. 
 I am completely and utterly shocked at EA Sports. I am a logical person, and I cannot find a reason 
 in the boundaries of our physical laws for why this has happened. Boycott anything and everything 
 from EA. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 7ranc3
Rating: 3.5
Date: Sep 15, 2007 11:25 am PT
Review:  EA is at least consistent. In this case, however, the consistency is not what anyone who is a fan 
 of hockey is looking for. Bugs that have existed since at least the '06 version of the game are 
 still showing here. The engine is old, I am sure this game could play on the computer I owned 4 
 years ago without breaking a sweat. The same easy moves still guarantees beating the goalies, and 
 worse, the elements that are in the console versions are not available in this version. Someday, 
 a developer is going to come out with a genuine product that truly destroys the EA stranglehold 
 on the Hockey game, and when that day comes, I hope the community buys it like crazy. If I was 
 a developer, I would make an engine that was easily modded, and not bother signing with the NHLPA 
 and NHL and then let the user community provide the statistics, names and etc. Make the best playing 
 hockey game out there with true cycling, play making, on the fly line adjustments, etc. Graphics 
 are substandard, sound is ok but the audience is boring...
  
  Please do not support EA by buying this game... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: waynehopwood
Rating: 2.5
Date: Sep 15, 2007 9:49 am PT
Review:  This is NHL 07 all over again with minor differences, mostly bad ones. The commentary, camera angles, 
 and gameplay are virtually identical.
  
  -rosters are bad, as usual. Some free agents are considered free agents, others are still with 
 last year's team even if they have signed with another NHL or Russian team. Surely the roster is 
 the last thing you do before shipping the game - it's pure and simple data entry.
  -they haven't incorporated the new jersey designs.
  -AHL is a nice addition, but there is zero 
 relationship between the AHL and the NHL - you don't get to move players back and forth (other 
 than the same old Minors feature that was already in 07) .
  -you no longer have any control over finances - all the same data is there, but you can't change 
 it (i. e. ticket prices, concession mark-up, and so on) .
  -you still can't change the length of a season in dynasty mode. Dynasty mode is still very limited 
 in what features you can turn on or off.
  -there is a new, way-too-heavy focus on cross-checks in front of the net.... way too many replays 
 show a cross-check, while the commentators say something stupid like woah, what a big hit .
  -quiet audience during the intro of each game; hard to get pumped up.
  -the new controls are 
 ok, but have some problems - for example, doing fancy deaks is just inefficient.... tough to get 
 a shot away when you have to take your hand off the shooting stick to press the deak button, then 
 the deak modifier button before shooting.
  -the game is way too easy, as 07 was. I'm not very good at these games usually, but I put it on 
 the hardest difficulty setting for my first game, and I used the new controls which were foreign 
 to me, and I still dominated and won. Ridiculous.
  
  I'm sure I'm missing many weaknesses (every time I play, I notice 2 or 3 things that are just plain 
 wrong) , but you get the idea. If you have 07 already, 08 is a big waste of money. This has none 
 of the new features that are advertised for the XBox and PS versions (including the play designer, 
 which I was looking forward to) . Overall, it is the same game as 07, but worse. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Creeper6
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 14, 2007 11:01 pm PT
Review:  First and foremost I'd like to say that EA gave us the full features of the PC on ther website 
 a long time before release. The link to it is here http://www. easports. com/nhl08/news. jsp? id=nhlonps2, 
 Aside from that. Here is the full review of this game without the negativity that other users have 
 said about this game.
  
  The first thing I noticed was that the music actually sounded good and not boring like the Emo 
 sound in 06 and 07. I know its the first time and one day I will get annoyed with the music but 
 hey, Thats what mods are for. The main menu is the same as 07. The game modes section is pretty 
 much the same as well. They added a feature where you can go straight to the playoffs with any 
 team and such. I thought that was pretty cool as well.
  
  They added the AHL into the game. Its only playable in Season mode though I dont think thats a 
 real downfall to the game at all.
  
  The A. I in this game is superior over NHL 07. The A. I no longer goes berserk at the end of the 
 period and scores a lousy goal. They actually only score if they simply beat your defense and they 
 arent cheap at all. The A. I is tough on the poking at times, But the challenge is great and keeps 
 you in the game, Which adds the wonder if there is a team that can hand your ass to you and keeps 
 you playing.
  
  The goalies are superior as well. Totally fixed. You now can get tripped if you get to close to 
 the goalie and stumble like the 360 version of the game. The goalies are hard and are a challenge 
 on difficult.
  
  The game has a more up-tempo style of gameplay. The bigger guys can now go as fast as the smaller 
 guys. (If there attributes are higher and depending on the player of course) .
  
  They added the skill stick to the right analog joystick on the gamepad you use. I use a logitech 
 gamepad and it works perfectly. Its exactly like the joystick on the 360 version. To do a wrist 
 shot flick up with your thumb. To slap shot just hold back and flick up, and you can deke and move 
 your stick left and right. You can also hold the left or right of the analog stick and flick up 
 to do a backhand or wrist shot.
  
  They did add commentaries for the AHL for all the teams and players.
  
  I also noticed that 
 the coaches faces were updated, Most of the players have faces now as well.
  
  If you liked 07. Even if you didnt like 07. You should definatly give this game a try. Remember 
 people, This is the only PC Hockey game out there, and for that reason EA doesnt even have to make 
 a hockey game. There is no competition for them to beat. This is also the last of Montreal Studios 
 of EA making a NHL hockey game for EA as there contract is up. Give it a shot. Its definatly worth 
 a shot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pcfox77
Rating: 4
Date: Sep 14, 2007 11:29 am PT
Review:  This version is NHL 08. It features the same thing as the other version except with few positive 
 additions. For one, when the puck is against the boards behind the goalie, an arrow appears showing 
 where it is. This may seem like something so trivial, but it is an addition that saves you tons 
 of time not knowing where the puck went, and having to cover the whole backboards just to get it, 
 while the ai knows where it is instantaneously.
  Another plus is the addition of a decent goalie. In past version, your goalie would save seemingly 
 unstoppable shots, and then give up the easiest tosses. This version seems to be very sharp, from 
 what i can see after the one exhibition match between anaheim and ottawa under difficulty setting 
 that I played. I won the match with a 2-0 shutout, which in past versions is quite difficult to 
 do without holding on to the puck.
  Still, unfortunately for pc users such as myself, Ea has not yet brought nhl 08 to the next generation 
 graphic and we are still stuck with the terrible graphics from at least 4-5 years back. This game 
 is not worth buying, its a waste of money. If you have a next gen console, pay a few dollars more 
 to get it on there. And for the last time I repeat, DO NOT BUY THIS GAME 
::::::

::::::
UserName: break5
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 14, 2007 6:30 am PT
Review:  embarassing effort from ea. nhl06.3. unbelievably garbage effort from ea. i bought this game from 
 wally-world just to install it and confirm what i knew all along... and it's confirmed. this game 
 is a travesty and a complete insult to the pc gaming market, especially for those who have religiously 
 purchased and supported ea's nhl franchise efforts. there has never been a good reason to pirate 
 games. it's wrong. what ea did to us on the pc is even worse though and is a concrete reason to 
 pirate every and all games by ea.
  
  for pc, i OWN nfs: u, nfs: u2, tw04, nhl98, nhl99, nhl2000, nhl2001, nhl2002, nhl2004, nhl2004, nhl2005, 
 nhl2006, nhl2007 (GARBAGE, NHL2006.3) . what a kick in the crotch to receive YET ANOTHER GARBAGE 
 FACSIMILE OF MY FAVORITE GAME ON PC.
  
  the worst part is, i like hockey so much, i'm actually thinking about buying an xbox360.
  
 
  so very very very very very angry about this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Towarf
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 14, 2007 4:36 am PT
Review:  - If you were a bit bored with 2007 and excited about the new version, there really isn't much 
 to renew interest
  
  - The advertised goalie mode is absent from PC
  
  - Game play is improved a bit
  
  - Graphics and commentary are completely recycled (or so close 
 you would have trouble seeing the difference
  
  - Menus look 10 years old
  
  - Nothing new in dynasty mode
  
  - Honestly if you are new to this game, pick up 2007 for $10 
 and if you are returning and have a small budget for games, skip it.
  
  EA didn't put out demos and kept the differences between PC/PS2 and the better console versions 
 secret (now we know why) . Pretty much a scam. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MisterGee
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 13, 2007 10:15 pm PT
Review:  I purchased and downloaded NHL 08 last night for the PC via EA Link. I was sort of going into the 
 game somewhat ambivalent because I've been disappointed by it the past three or four years. But 
 I've read good things about it from people [who got advanced copies] on various forums and I figured 
 I have nothing else better to do than to try it out for myself. Obviously, I haven't spent a tremendous 
 amount of time playing it and analyzing every nuance of this season's edition, but several things 
 became very apparent to me in the two or three hours I took it for a test run. Here's my thoughts 
 on a variety of subjects about this year's version of the game...
  
  Fantasy Draft in Franchise Mode
  
  The first thing I did after installing the game, as I do 
 every season, is head straight for Franchise mode to do a Fantasy Draft. The process is pretty 
 straight-forward and shouldn't need to change a whole lot from season to season. The most notable 
 change to Franchise mode, especially as it pertains to Fantasy Drafts (oh, and the NHL, too) , is 
 the $50 million dollar salary cap. So right off the bat I was like, Okay, here's an interesting 
 new spin on things and I'll have to actually give my draft choices more thought to stay within 
 budget. You know, snag a couple big name players with huge salaries and, from there, fill the roster 
 with younger talent with future potential and smaller salaries. Well, my short attention span forced 
 me to hit the Auto-Draft button once I had filled the greater majority of my roster positions. 
 How did the PC do in filling things out? Let's put it this way, the cap is $50 million and the 
 Auto-Draft took my team salary to $68 million. I wasn't sure how that would effect my franchise, 
 so I tried to play my first game and was denied due to being over budget. A message popped up on 
 the screen saying I'd have to release players to Free Agency or trade them to get my team salary 
 under the cap. Fair enough. It's just a reflection of how the NHL is these days.
  
  At that point I took a closer look of my post-draft roster and was somewhat stunned to see the 
 bone-headed choices the PC had made for me in this money-conscious era of hockey. Once two or three 
 solid lines have been chosen, plus six starting defensemen and a starting goalie were picked, the 
 PC probably should have looked to fill the remaining roster spots with grinders of average skill 
 and salaries within the $400k-$600k range to stay under the cap. Instead, the computer snagged 
 the highest skilled, highest paid players still available, which translated to a back-up goaltender 
 making over $5 million and 7th and 8th defensemen making $2 to $3 million per season. It just didn't 
 seem like the kind of logic that should have been programmed into the process.
  
  From there, I jumped over to take a look at the Free Agent pool. I guess I was sort of surprised 
 to see some of the better players in the league (like Ilya Kovalchuk, to name just one) sitting 
 there, undrafted, or drafted and then immediately released by another team also over the cap. It 
 was then that I realized I could essentially re-draft the core of my team just by cutting players 
 to free cap space and then signing all these Free Agent all-stars sitting out there in limbo. So 
 that's kinda what I did... I cut eight or ten players from my drafted roster and signed two or 
 three seriously skilled players. It seems like a cheat of some kind to me. Like, maybe more thought 
 should have been put into dealing with the salary cap as the draft was taking place. I don't claim 
 to have the definitive answer, it just seemed... I dunno, goofy.
  
  Take the Good with the Bad - First the Good ...
  
  So once I got my roster all straightened 
 out, I started my first game. It only took a minute or two to realize that EA had, at least in 
 my estimation, tightened up the AI. It seemed to me like the computer opponents weren't falling 
 for all the old tricks and weren't getting beaten repeatedly by the one-timer. I'm not even sure 
 what difficulty I was playing on, probably Pro, but the computer kept the games fairly respectable. 
 The first game I won, 4-1, second game 2-1 and, the third game was sort of a blow-out with me winning 
 7-1 (with first liners Sidney Crosby and Daniel Briere both tallying hat tricks) . I should probably 
 bump up the difficulty... but for now, at least, I'll put the 'improved AI' in the Good column.
 
  
  Going back to Fantasy Draft mode for just another minute, one thing I noticed is that player ratings 
 seemed to have gotten a lot more realistic in NHL 08. Last year it seemed most every player's speed, 
 just as an example, was somewhere between 90 and 99. To actually find an active player with a speed 
 slower than, say, 85 was sort of anomaly. Of course, I'm going by memory. Maybe that's an over-generalization. 
 But, to me, this year's ratings looked refined for the better overall. They may not all be spot-on, 
 but at least they seem more based in reality. Another check in the Good column. The graphics. Ehh, 
 they look okay to me... I'm not totally blown away by them, but they'll do. I'm playing on a pretty 
 high-end machine with a Nvidia Quad SLI video card. NHL 07 ran like dog poop on my computer... 
 I never could make the graphics stop chopping, it made it pretty much unplayable. After contacting 
 EA's tech support about the problem, their answer was that dual core processors were never tested 
 on the game, so that's probably why the game ran like I was playing on a 486/50 with 64mb of ram 
 running Windows 95. Huh? Anyway, at least NHL 08 seems to run smoothly for me (although it did 
 freeze on my twice in just two hours or so) . Maybe just running smoothly is setting the bar a little 
 on the low side. Still, I'll put it in the Good column. Much improved graphics? Mmm... I wouldn't 
 really say so.
  
  And now the Bad 
  
  The interface for the PC version has been pretty un-intuitive and goofy for as long as I can remember. 
 It just doesn't make sense. On one menu screen, you use the Backspace and Enter keys as primary 
 navigation buttons. On another menu screen, those buttons don't work at all. Instead, you use the 
 #2 and #4 buttons on the joystick. The player trade window is still a mystery to me... it's navigation 
 is far too complicated and illogical. At the time, I wasn't planning to write a review of this 
 game, so I don't have it all memorized... but it seemed like virtually all 10 buttons on my Logitech 
 Rumblepad, plus the two joysticks and D-pad were all used for something in the trade window. I've 
 been playing EA's NHL franchise on the PC for 13 or more years... and I can't figure out how to 
 navigate the trade window... what is up with this? This is a PC... why not just point and click 
 with the freaking mouse? Another thing I'll say about the interface is that, at times, I seems 
 downright broken. You're supposed to be able to sort whatever column you have highlighted by pressing 
 the #3 button on the joystick, only sometimes the column just doesn't sort. The only way to get 
 it to work is to change the stat category you're in (say, from Overall to Speed) and back again 
 before the sort button will work properly. A pretty bold check in the Bad column here. This just 
 seems like really sloppy programming. Navigating menus in a game franchise that's been around this 
 long shouldn't be this unpredictable and dumb.
  
  Create a Team - Some people don't care about this feature of the game... me, I could take it or 
 leave it, but I always mess around with it at least once with every new release. And after messing 
 around with NHL 08's 'Create a Team' feature, I now remember why I forgot about last year's... 
 it's bad. For starters, it appears to me that EA hasn't even attempted to revise or improve this 
 part of the game in the three or four years it's been in it. Remember... this is the 'creation 
 zone' where you can be 'creative' and 'create' your own franchise from any city in the world... 
 as long as it's already in the list of 60 or so cities that have pre-recorded audio for their name 
 (ie, Chicago, Detroit, Philadelphia, New York, etc) . And the custom franchise of your creative 
 little mind can wear whatever color jerseys you desire... as long as what you desire is already 
 being worn by another NHL team. Want your team to sport sinister looking black and white uniforms? 
 Fantastic... well, you can pick from the Los Angeles Kings home uniforms or, well, their away uniforms. 
 And, that's it, really. Madden's 'Create Team' feature has its own short-comings, but at least 
 you can actually custom create your team's colors from top to bottom and when it's done, it looks 
 original. This feature in NHL 08 is a flat-out joke. It's just as useless as they day they rolled 
 it out three or four versions ago with precisely zero additional effort going into it over the 
 years. Beyond just the cosmetic annoyances, 'Create a Team' also falls short in that you cannot 
 participate in a Fantasy Draft with your newly created custom franchise. At least, not that I could 
 find. It would be nice if you could replace an existing NHL team and draft like you normally would. 
 But instead, you fill your roster by picking and choosing whatever players you want from whatever 
 teams you want with no competitive considerations whatsoever. Your team could essentially be made 
 up of 90-99 rated players at the expense of every other team in the league. Where's the fun in 
 that? And, unless I'm mistaken, I'm pretty sure you can only play your created team (you know, 
 the one you made from another team's existing uniforms, playing in someone else's stadium, with 
 players that you stole from other teams) in exhibition mode. 'Create a Team' gets a big, fat check 
 in the Bad column and a shameful finger wave at EA for recycling this tired 'feature' in its games 
 year after year.
  
  Create a Player - There's not a whole lot to say here that hasn't already been said in the two 
 paragraphs above. This feature has also gone completely ignored since it was introduced into the 
 franchise several years ago. They're literally regurgitating the same exact player models (faces... 
 horrible, flat, same five hairstyles... awkwardly exaggerated broken noses and goofy black eyes) 
 year after year. As far as I can tell, they only thing that's changed is equipment (ie, helmets, 
 skates and sticks) and that's more than likely because there are promotional considerations involved 
 with these different brands, like Nike, CCM, Bauer, etc. And another thing, as far as I was able 
 to determine last night, you cannot add a created player to a roster that you've put together in 
 a Fantasy Draft. Maybe the player needs to be created before the draft, I'm not sure. The lameness 
 of this whole 'Creation Zone' thing is just overwhelming. EA should really be ashamed to keep putting 
 the same exact chunks of code in its new games year after year. Another big, fat check in the Bad 
 column for 'Create a Player'.
  
  And this has been a pet peeve of mine since day one when it first appeared in the NHL series several 
 years back. The color of a goaltenders equipment stays with him regardless of what team he has 
 been drafted by or which team he is traded to. As an example, if I were to draft Evengi Nabokov 
 to play for the Blackhawks, he appears on ice wearing his San Jose teal blue pads and mask rather 
 than Chicago's red, black and/or white team colors. The same is true for goalies that are traded 
 from one team to another. The goalie's equipment will always match the colors of the team he played 
 for on the default rosters. That's just plain stupid. A goalie's equipment colors should be linked 
 to the team he currently plays for and not to the team he originally played for. I'm putting another 
 big, fat check in the Bad column because, unless there's some seriously good, well thought-out 
 reason for doing it this way, this just appears to be a careless oversight on EA's part. Yes, it's 
 a cosmetic detail but it's kind of a big one. One that should have been taken care of with a patch, 
 a month or two after its initial debut three or four years ago.
  
  Audio and Sountrack - I'll just touch on the audio portion of the game for a minute. The voiceover 
 and commentary in NHL 08 doesn't sound the slightest bit improved. In fact, I'd venture an educated 
 guess that nothing new has been recorded for this game in years, with the possible exception of 
 some player names. I'd even go further to say that if you blindfolded a fan of this game and played 
 them commentary from this year's version, last year's version and NHL 06, you wouldn't be able 
 to spot a difference. Just more recycled, unimproved data neatly wrapped up in a new box with a 
 new game price tag. Big fat check in the Bad column, only because I'm starting to feel cheated 
 at this point. As far as music goes, it's all a subjective thing, of course. I actually kinda liked 
 a few songs from NHL 06 and 07 enough to download them from iTunes. This year's soundtrack seems, 
 for the most part, pretty darn bland and uninspired to me. I'm getting old... probably older than 
 most people reading this review. I just know I'm about 20 years past the age where I'd want to 
 hear death metal (or whatever you call it) in a video game or anywhere else. At least in previous 
 versions, I thought some of the harder stuff was at least catchy. I really, really miss the days 
 of being able to add your own in-game ditties via a totally unsupported little importer utility 
 that EA made available. I used to scour my CD collection for music that'd be cool to hear between 
 face-offs or after fights and I'd add vast amounts of reverb to them to make it sound like it was 
 echoing in a cavernous stadium. I guess those days are gone for fear that someone's artistic rights 
 are somehow being trampled upon. In any case, I'll put a check in the Eh, whatever column under 
 the game's soundtrack.
  
  The Bottom Line
  
  Is NHL 08 a fun game? Sure. Is it an improvement over NHL 07? Yes, to a point. I do feel the AI 
 has been improved, making games versus the computer opponent more competitive and realistic. Your 
 mileage may vary. The biggest problem I have with NHL 08 is the same problem I tend to have with 
 most new EA sports titles year after year... it seems to just be re-packaged code from the year 
 before or the year before that. In my opinion, EA tends to focus on making one or two perceived 
 major improvements to these games (ie, eye candy that looks nice on the back of the box) and leaves 
 everything else untouched. They probably figure that these big changes will be so big that people 
 will either not notice the other 80% of the game they haven't touched (and desperately needs improving) 
 or those failures will just be forgiven. I'm NOT going to go so far as to say that EA is doing 
 this maliciously, to rip off consumers. But I do feel that their self-imposed, annual 12-month 
 development schedule is just unrealistic when it comes to producing a quality product that is definitively 
 improved all-around. I think with the limited time they have to develop these games every year, 
 they have to pick and choose which battles to fight. This year the AI gets a makeover, next year 
 maybe they'll give the Create a Team/Player features the attention they deserve... but that will 
 likely come at the expense of improving the game's AI. In truth, we would all benefit from EA taking 
 a year off to put more quality time into the development of its sports titles. Well, everyone would 
 benefit except for EA, of course. It just seems to me that these games get rushed to meet sort 
 of unrealistic deadlines. And in the end, what you get is sloppy programming, inconsistent menu 
 navigation, features that work very poorly and problems that go unfixed year after year after year. 
 But we all kinda know that's what to expect from EA, though, now don't we? For me, again, I'm disappointed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hanhartb
Rating: 3.5
Date: Sep 13, 2007 8:41 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: Same as '07
  
  Sound/Music: Sound same as last year, music as usualy comprised of EA Trax which I can't say I'm 
 a fan of.
  
  Gameplay: More or less the same as last year's PC version. Compared to previous versions?: The 
 skill stick is ho-hum, most of the new advertised features (for the consoles) aren't present on 
 the PC version. Let's see, you get a slightly tweaked AI, 28 AHL teams (which by the way, aren't 
 integrated into the dynasty mode like in the 360 and PS3 versions) . It's a no-brainer, although 
 I'd probably say don't buy either since EA obviously cares very little about its PC user-base. 
 Final word: EA has scammed we poor suckers once again into buying a game that simply isn't what 
 they've advertised it to be. Oh sure, they will point to the tiny text on the official site's feature 
 page that specifies X-Box 360 and PS3, but then, why wasn't there a feature page for the PC or 
 PS2 versions? EA should provide '07 owners who bought '08 a refund and an apology. I will not buy 
 another EA Sports title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SimUser
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 13, 2007 8:24 pm PT
Review:  1024X860 Max Resolution?
  No upgrade what so ever, a bogus excuse from EA.
  A Price Upgrade? For what? The fifteen bucks they paid the kid to update the logo and the roster?
 
  
  DO NOT BUY THIS GAME
  
  I personally will buy no more EA products until they correct this, I don't care if they have to 
 make a NHL 08 and 1/2. This is corporate nonsense, and a joke.
  
  DX10 is a feeble excuse for laziness.
  
  Does the upgraded graphics for NHL 08 for the 360 
 require the HD-DVD player? No, there is absolutely no excuse for the PC division to shortcut once 
 again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: julianray
Rating: 2
Date: Sep 13, 2007 7:36 pm PT
Review:  Like many , Ive been playing the NHL series on the PC for years ( before that it was Sega) . NHL 
 08 is a total waste of time. Im not going to bother dwelliing on the lies EA said about the PC 
 version. Nothing is in the game . Game is the same as 07, which was the same as 06.. Series has 
 gotten worse and worse, to the point where I'm bored once I start a Dynasty. Brutal. I actually 
 returned the game 3 hrs after playing ( once I realized that they just added a patch to 07 and 
 re-released it) .
  
  I really hope EA does not make anymore Hockey Games so we can just put this dying series to rest 
 and let someone have a go..
  
  If you have 06 or 07 stay far away from 08.
  
  Giving it a 2.0 because of the false advertising and the fact that I already bought this game last 
 year (which I didnt enjoy) when it was called NHL 07. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacobderosenoir
Rating: 2
Date: Sep 13, 2007 11:20 am PT
Review:  I didn't know that NHL 08 for PC was not the same as the NHL 08 release on the PS3 and XBox 360. 
 So all those good looking graphics, game play options and new features shown on the web site ARE 
 NOT on the PC version of the game. NHL 08 for Pc is almost identical to the NHL 07 version. The 
 sames animations (when I say the same I mean it... it's identical even in the pre-game presentation) , 
 the same commentaries, the same interface (with new graphics) with even the same glitch (not being 
 able to use game pads in the in game menus) . The create zone is identical to the one of NHL 07 
 up to the shirts and logos. The graphics are the same, the AI is the same, the same tactics works..... well 
 you got it!
  
  You cannot go over 1024X 768 in the resolution and you don't even have the 16:9 format.
  
  
 The only difference (and the only is not a figure of speech) is the new way of shooting and passing 
 with the right Analog stick which is not big of a deal as I find it difficult to be precise with 
 it. The way to make deke with it though is good.
  
  The only good thing about NHL 08 is the fact that you don't need a state of the art computer to 
 play it. But since almost every NHL gamers already have NHL 07, it make no sense to pay 40 bucks 
 for a patch as NHL 08 is nothing more than that.
  
  EA is laughing at PC gamers with this game. The miss representation they've done on their website, 
 not showing the PC version is inexcusable. I want to know why EA didn't provide PC Gamers with 
 a Next Gen game, particularly since NHL 06 and 07 are basically patches of NHL 05. I have all NHL 
 games since 1994 and even in the bad years I was patient because I don't believe that you can produce 
 such a different game every years like they pretend to be doing. But with Next Gen console I was 
 120% sure that the PC version would be Next Gen too.... It doesn't make any sense. It's a rip off 
 and I will never buy an EA Sport game ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kalay_BG
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 13, 2007 3:17 am PT
Review:  If you own nhl 07 or 06 dont buy this nothing new . Skill Stick works only under season but its 
 nothing interesting , AHL cant be played during dinasty ... nothing new the graphic engine is too 
 old now . The Console series are far better than this . I rate it 5.0 only because i love hockey 
 , but i am playing same game from 2 years so i am bored to death . The keepers are bit better but 
 not sure if thats not because the players skills have been lowered , still they are some glitches 
 and multiplayer will suffer this . Pitty EA consider making new games because not only NHL but 
 even FIFA 08 will be the same like last year one ?? Whats should hockey fans that dont own console 
 , do ? EA sports think that we should buy one . Thats their idea ... But only EA is loosing from 
 their ideas i hope 2k sports make pc version next year , if they dont then we should abadone the 
 hockey games for pc :| Buy a console version because thats a crap ! Thanx EA 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
