-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: NHL 07
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sports/nhl07/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Gameplay is still enjoyable, despite its lack of progress.
 great player models.
 it's only $2999 this year.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 This version of the skill stick smacks of &quot;me too!&quot; desperation.
 gameplay, graphics, sound, and just about everything else are practically unaltered from last year's game.
 it's got a roster update, but it isn't an especially accurate one.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 15, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.1
Critic Score: 6.8, 8 Review (s)
User Score: 7.1, 459 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Sports
Genre: Ice Hockey Sim
Date:     Sep 12, 2006 &raquo;  
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Perhaps unsurprisingly, the versions of NHL 07 not made for the next generation of consoles offer 
 little in the way of new content. 

  Making its debut on the Xbox 360 this year, EA's NHL franchise finally got off the schneid and 
 delivered a hockey experience that not only compared very favorably to the competition but also 
 forced you to rethink how you play offense in a hockey game, thanks to the brand-new right analog 
 stick-based skill stick. Unfortunately, the Xbox, PlayStation 2, and PC versions of NHL 07 weren't 
 quite so lucky. Innovation and updates are few in these latest iterations of the franchise, probably 
 due in no small part to EA's focus on the 360 version. For those without the benefit of an Xbox 
 360, these other versions of NHL 07 do manage to provide reasonably updated rosters and a couple 
 of tweaks here and there, but if you want more than that, you'll be disappointed.  

          Unlike their 360 counterpart, the PS2, Xbox and PC versions of NHL 07 are basically NHL 
 06.1.     

  To be fair, the older console and PC versions of NHL 07 do include a version of the skill stick, 
 but it's not a very impressive one. Rather than shooting and dekeing, the stick controls passing: 
 moving it side to side passes normally to nearby teammates, pressing forward throws a saucer pass, 
 and pressing backward does a quick drop pass. Mechanically, it's sound enough, but it feels like 
 a tacked-on change. There's nothing special or unique about the way the stick handles the passes, 
 so you're left with a new control scheme that's been changed for the sake of having a new control 
 scheme. It doesn't improve the flow of the game or the offense to any real effect. It also bears 
 mention that if you have the PC version of the game, make sure you've got a good dual analog control 
 stick, otherwise you won't see the benefit of this mechanic at all.  

  Of course, that's not to say the game still isn't quite a bit of fun. Though it's an overly speedy 
 and periodically unrealistic game of hockey, the pace of the action makes for some crazy plays 
 and hard hits that are highly enjoyable to watch. The only problem is that it's much the same brand 
 of crazy hockey that it's been for the last few years. Defense doesn't play any better, goalies 
 still make some boneheaded moves, and the offensive game feels relatively unchanged. Sure, there's 
 that newfangled skill stick, and a greater emphasis on role-playing makes players of certain categories 
 (snipers, power forwards, grinders, and the like) play their roles a touch more stringently, but 
 again, it really doesn't change the feel of the game from what it's basically been since NHL 2005. 

  Every mode that was in NHL 06 is in NHL 07, and there are a couple of small additions to boot. 
 The Czech Elite league has been added to the ever-growing list of European leagues available in 
 the game, and now there's even a European dynasty mode to take part in. Granted, about nine people 
 in the North American market probably care about that, but hey, it's there if you're into it. As 
 far as the typical NHL dynasty mode goes, you're looking at a carbon copy of NHL 06's dynasty mode, 
 which in turn was a copy of NHL 2005's dynasty mode. Owner goals still annoyingly charge you with 
 tasks varying from winning the Stanley Cup (do we really need to be told to do that?) to getting 
 the first overall draft pick in the following draft (bad teams ask you to do this, and it's not 
 as easy as it sounds) . There's also a slightly different twist to the owner feature, with the new 
 trust system. Owner trust is now what affords you upgrade points for your dynasty, rather than 
 cash, and what type of GM you pick (they range from boastful types to penny-pinchers to somewhere 
 in the middle) directly affects how your trust is gained and lost throughout a season. It's a slightly 
 more interesting risk-versus-reward take on the mode, but it doesn't fundamentally change the lame 
 nature of the owner-goals system and ultimately makes getting upgrades a bit more of a pain.  

 
  One other notable addition to the dynasty mode is the proper salary cap, though it comes without 
 the benefit of the 360 version's realistic minor league contract management and waiver system. 
 You don't get the option to sign players to one- or two-way deals, so you can send whoever you 
 need to the minors without any consequence of that player being plucked off waivers.  

  Outside of dynasty, there's a single season mode, exhibition games, the world tournament, a shoot-out 
 minigame, and the free-for-all minigame. Free-for-all is a decent bit of fun if you've got four 
 players to play, but considering that the competing NHL 2K series has had a much longer list of 
 minigames for years now (including one that's just like free-for-all) , it's hard to get too excited 
 about just one minigame that hasn't really changed in a couple of years. There's also online play, 
 with much the same roster of online features that just about every EA Sports game has these days, 
 including basic head-to-head competition, leaderboards, lobbies, and the like. Though the PC version 
 has the typical EA Sports online features, like tournaments and clubs, the Xbox and PS2 versions 
 have nothing of the sort. Considering that the NHL 2K games have had online seasons and tournaments 
 for a good long while, 07 feels decidedly behind the curve. At the very least, most of the matches 
 we played seemed relatively lag free.  

  Given what's been written thus far, it will probably come as no shock to you that the presentation 
 has gone unaltered across the board. NHL 07's graphics look functionally identical to NHL 06's 
 graphics. You might see a few new goalie and forward animations here and there, but for all intents 
 and purposes, you're looking at the same graphics engine. That's not all that bad, mind you. NHL 
 07 still has excellent-looking player models and animations, and though it may be an aging engine, 
 it still looks great on each of the respective platforms. The menus and interface, however, have 
 aged less gracefully. The menus in the game look downright crusty, and navigating a few of the 
 in-game and dynasty menus can be confusing at first.  

          There is a new skill stick, but all it does is pass, not shoot.     

  The game's audio 
 also hasn't changed, and that's less to the game's benefit. Unlike the 360 version, these versions 
 of 07 don't have the dynamic commentary duo of Gary Thorne and Bill Clement; rather, they feature 
 the far less engaging pair of Jim Hughson and Craig Simpson. In fact, the commentary sounds like 
 it's a precise recycling of the same lines from last year's game, periodic wrong calls and bugs 
 to boot. The soundtrack includes another roster of hip-for-the-minute emo bands that neither entertain 
 nor offend, and if you can tell the difference between the sound effects in last year's game and 
 this year's, you're officially lying to yourself.  

  The one nice thing EA Sports managed to do with NHL 07 on the PS2 and Xbox is price it down to 
 $29.99 (the PC version has been $29.99 at release for a couple of years now) , but it seems like 
 a necessary step given how much of this game feels like a patch of NHL 06, rather than a new game. 
 EA's focus is squarely on the next generation of consoles, and if yours isn't, you're going to 
 be left out in the cold if you want solid progression in your hockey games. If you own an Xbox 
 360, you are hereby excused from purchasing any of the other home versions of NHL 07. If you don't, 
 and can stand buying a roster update with perfunctory tweaks and not much else new to its name, 
 NHL 07 is still a fun game, if not an altogether different one.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (46 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: fandom888
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 28, 2008 12:58 am PT
Review:  Each year the NHL series become even worse than being improved. What NHL 06 offered is corrupted 
 now, a few new features and a problematic gameplay. What else are you looking for?
  
  NHL 06 just updated its roster. NHL 07 does so, but it is not enough. How can you release a series 
 if there is no improvement in its games from year to year. The gameplay and graphics are the same 
 since I remember myself playing hockey. What I said in my review for NHL 06 is correct for 07, 
 too. Of course that doesn't mean that the game is bad. On the contrary, the gameplay will be difficult 
 to understand for the newcomers, but the older players will enjoy it pretty well.
  
  If something is improved a bit, that is the skill stick, which van be used wiser than it was last 
 year. And I am also grateful that the player figures are somewhat detailed this year. But the graphics 
 face the biggest decline. They are decreased a bit for the sake of a great performance, which also 
 lacks on condition that your PC is not updated with the latest parts and drivers. All the rest 
 remain the same.
  
  Of course there is still a reson to play NHL 07: if you have a powerful system and a previous experience 
 with the series you will have a really good time. If not, I reccomend you to rent it first to see 
 what's going on with this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark777888
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 16, 2008 10:57 pm PT
Review:  I got this game in the EA Sports 2007 pack that came with NHL 07, Madden 07, Tiger Woods 07, NBA 
 Live 07, and Nascar Simracing. All i can say for this is two days after i bought it i went over 
 to my local gamestop and bought a Logitech Dual Action Gamepad. After i bought that, it was a great 
 game, before i had the controller the game was unplayable.
  
  This game features the 2006 NHL season with great everything, except keyboard controls. They are 
 nearly impossible to calibrate and once you can remember them they feel awkward. After i got my 
 joypad it became my number one played game. Once you can actually play it it is just plain fun. 
 It is smooth, sleek, and relatively low on bugs. And at this date with a $10 price tag, its a must 
 have.
  
  The gameplay is basically the same as that for NHL 06 except they did a major debug on the entire 
 system. There is the occasional graphical glitch or catch in the scenery but those a few and far 
 apart. Plus the ones that do occur arent bothersome, they are just funny. The biggest one i had 
 was where the opposing goalie passed the puck straight down the middle of the ice but i checked 
 the reciever. My goalie got stuck in the goal and the puck went it. That may be annoying but i 
 was on the floor in stitches.
  
  The controls (once you get a controller) are easy and fun. There are body checks, two kinds of 
 shots on goal (slapshot and flick shot) , and two ways to pass. The first way is that you hit the 
 pass button and your player passes to the nearest open person. The second way is where you use 
 the second analog stick to pass it in a direction where the computer takes hold of the reciever 
 and picks it up. It adds an extra dimension to passing and makes those wrap around attacks on goal 
 much more fun.
  
  The game looks and sounds great. The players are all rendered well and just about any computer 
 can handle the modest graphics recommendations. The sound occasionally repeats but its just something 
 that happens in sports games, nothing to get mad about.
  
  The ultimate highlight of the game is the dynasty mode where you take you team through the season 
 as you sign free agents and try to get the best record. The stanley cup isnt always your ultimate 
 goal though as you can play in a large variety of leagues from around the world.
  
  I say go get this game if you want to shell out the $30 for it ($10 for the game and about $20 
 for a controller) . I also say you should have a controller anyways because as i played this i also 
 learned that a controller is necissary for Madden on PC and any NBA games on PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ritzcracka
Rating: 1.5
Date: Jan 28, 2008 6:23 pm PT
Review:  For several years, EA has been making almost no effort with their once-great hockey series. This 
 year, however, should have been different. NHL07 has been completely rewritten to take advantage 
 of the powerful new Xbox360 and Playstation3. Everyone was excited to see the same effort on the 
 most powerful gaming platform - the PC. Unfortunately, what PC gamers have received is not the 
 same game that is on the X360 and PS3. It's based on the same engine as last year's sub par NHL06 
 for PC and contains none of the enhancements that the "next-gen" consoles got in their versions. 
 It's the same insulting, lazy effort that PC gamers have received from EA Sports for years.
  
  GAMEPLAY: NHL07 plays exactly the same as NHL06. There, I said it. If you didn't mind NHL06's 
 lack of AI and extra content, then you won't mind NHL07's lack of AI and extra content. I should 
 preface this by saying that the X360 and PS3 games use different controls (including a completely 
 different shooting system) , have a completely rewritten and far better AI, and more content.
  
  Your players don't set up plays, often don't get in the right position, and your goalies can't 
 stop a beach ball, especially when the computer is down by a couple of goals. That, by the way, 
 is the most frustrating thing of all - the computer STILL cheats. Instead of implementing a solid 
 AI, EA Sports boosts ( or reduces) the other team's stats depending on the score of the game. The 
 referees call more penalties on the team that is up by a couple of goals to try and hide the blatant 
 AI cheating. Despite all this, it's too easy. I can usually blow at least 7 goals past opposition 
 goalies even on Difficult. The score might end 7-5, because the computer turns my goalie to mush 
 to compensate, but it's still no challenge.
  
  Oh, the depth. The minigames are still of the mindless "score X number of goals in 1 minute" variety. 
 There is still no pure playoff mode, so you have to play through (or sim through) a shortened season 
 to get to the playoffs. The menus are still completely inconsistent - some require the mouse, some 
 require a gamepad. Multiplayer is still laggy and mostly broken. All of these are complaints I 
 had about last year's game, which essentially sums up this review.
  
  GRAPHICS: NHL07's graphics are identical to NHL06's graphics, which is to say that they aren't 
 very good. They'd have been impressive about 5 years ago. The next-gen game looks about 40 million 
 times better, and it's sad, because the PC can easily handle the graphics in the Xbox360 or PS3 
 version.
  
  SOUND: NHL07 sounds identical to last year's game. It sounds OK. The music is irritating and repetitive, 
 though i guess fans of emo and pop-punk might like it.
  
  OVERALL: EA Sports has abandoned the PC gaming market, and the PC version of NHL07 is proof. There 
 has been absolutely no improvements worth mentioning to NHL07 over last year's abysmal effort. 
 If you already own NHL05 or 06, just download updated rosters from the various websites that host 
 them and you'll have the latest trades and player additions.
  
  It's a terrible product compared to the next-gen console version.
  
  As an aside, I'm not buying 
 any new versions of the NHL series on the PC until it's rewritten from the ground up. I borrowed 
 NHL07 from a friend and uninstalled it after about a week -more than enough time to see what this 
 brutal game is worth. I won't be buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rut3
Rating: 3.5
Date: Oct 11, 2007 5:28 pm PT
Review:  If there was ever a disappointing game, this was it.
  
  Good: - Looks terrific
  
  Bad:
  - That's all of the good.
  - Everything is incredibly easy. The entire AI is VERY bad. 
 I won a game as Montreal against Edmonton 7-0 on the hardest level. The shots were 10-7.
  I also won a World Cup type tournament playing as JAPAN!
  - It is possible to obtain every player 
 in the league except Crosby. You can trade up again and again, starting with the worst player, 
 and work your way up to anybody. - Even Martin Brodeur will let in backhands and wrist shots from 
 the blue line. -Overall, unless you are a moron and know nothing about hockey, you can beat ANY 
 team playing as ANY team. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: COWS2
Rating: 7.6
Date: Aug 13, 2007 3:35 pm PT
Review:  Well were back to sqaure 1 with the copy of 06. The realism with is crappy. Unrealistic speed horrible 
 commentary and my biggest porblem is I cant change my res. soo im stuck with a 640 by 480 projection 
 with a 1650 by 1250 possibilty projection. Skill Stick: Ummm Useless unless u like the puck being 
 taken from u
  Commentary: Sucks soo bad i had to cut them
  Diffculty: SOOO DAMN EASY. I get 10-16 goals on medium!
  AI: Sucks man like ive gotten games 
 with the comp getting one shot on net
  Goalies: OK. But why do they keep the equipment and masks from the old team? like its ok for like 
 first 5 games but it getts annoying thinking uve got a calgary goalie in net not a san jose sharks 
 one.
  Dynasty: Ive uberd my team soo badly im 52-0-0-0, Trading tooooo easy or tooooooo hard. I had to 
 trade 3 great plyers for Ovechkin!. well life aint a bowl of peaches
  Free 4 all. Defense are like robots. So freaking predictable
  Shootout: Ummm why the hell do 
 i have to even go there it sucks.
  
  To finish it off. For those of u with FIFA 2005 its like an exact mold of it in all aspects of 
 the new content. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luigigreen
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jun 25, 2007 7:32 am PT
Review:  NHL 07 is the next iteration in EA's popular hockey franchise. If you haven't played any of the 
 games before, it's a simulation of real life hockey. While NHL 07 is fun to play, it has changed 
 very little from last year, which is not helped by it's bare bone features and lack of depth.
 
  
  The hockey in the game is very fun to play, it's the features the game is lacking. Checking, skating, 
 shooting, and even defense is entertaining and is done very well. The AI is very smart and when 
 the difficulty is changed, it can always give you a challenge. The game has changed very little 
 from last year, which is another down side.
  
  The franchise mode is also very bare bones. If you've never played NHL 07 or franchise mode, franchise 
 mode takes you through 10 different seasons as you being the owner trying to make a winning team, 
 by trading players, signing contracts, editing lines and more. As fun as that sounds, it ends up 
 being very shallow. After that, their is very little do except play the game. The season mode is 
 not much better as it is almost the same thing except through just 1 season.
  
  While online is very fun to play, there is usually no one on and there is a limited amount of things 
 to do. All you can do online is play a game, no mini-games, or other things. While there are seasons 
 and tournaments, the fact that you can only play a game is a little disappointing.
  
  The graphics have also unchanged from last year, but they are still very good. The crowd looks 
 very nice, the players look very nice and all the rinks seem to have a different feel. The game 
 does seem to have a few frame rate problems at points, but it does not make a big difference. The 
 games lighting and shadows look very nice, and the game is overall for enjoyable to look at.
  
  The sound in the game is very good for the first hour or two, but once you start playing a 
 little more it gets annoying. The players skating, shouting and the crowd all sound great and very 
 realistic. What gets annoying very quickly is the commentators. The commentators are ok for a while 
 but once you start playing for a bit, they start repeating the same thing, over and over and over 
 again to the point where you just turn them off all together. Other than that, the game sounds 
 nice.
  
  The game's presentation is very professional and is visually appealing. The game's menus look nice 
 and fit the game's style. The game has an overall more cartoony style of gameplay, as the graphics 
 seem to convey a more abstract image then the 2K series. Overall, the game's presentation seems 
 well suited.
  
  NHL 07 does very little to help distinguish itself from 06. EA has constantly been slipping when 
 it comes to the NHL series, as the from 00-02 were hailed as 3 of the best hockey simulation games 
 ever. The game seems very bare bone, very unchanged, but what disappoints the most is the lack 
 of time and effort spent on this game as it seemed EA just updated the roster, slapped 07 on the 
 front and tried to squeeze people for more money. If you want to play a great hockey game, go pick 
 up NHL 2002. If you want to pick up something more recent with updated rosters, pick up NHL 07. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: David_Helmond
Rating: 2.7
Date: Jun 24, 2007 10:22 am PT
Review:  First of all, I must say I'm not into these sort of sport sim games. But I thought, what the heck, 
 let's give it a try. Big mistake.
  
  This game looks really good. &Iacute;'ve tried it on both a high and a low end system, and graphically 
 speaking, it looks amazing.
  
  But the controls suck big time. With the keyboard it's very tricky, so I tried with my rumblepad. 
 Even after 20 minutes I still couldn't figure out how it works, and that spoils the entire experience.
 
  
  So, if you like to figure out for hours how a game works. If you like a learning curve of twelve 
 years, then this is your game. If not, don't spoil your money on it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ut40755
Rating: 7.4
Date: May 15, 2007 6:08 pm PT
Review:  Passing system is a bit funky and takes some getting used to. Shooting system is pretty good. Once 
 you wind up, you can move around a bullseye around the goal. Goalies can get tough though. The 
 overall difficulty is not much to battle against either. After a few days you'll have double digits 
 after the first period on difficult setting. Dynasty mode can get addicting, and can be very fun. 
 Sometimes things can be a bit fast to be realistic. Fully adjustable settings to pick out the gameplay 
 type you want (fast - slow, hard - weak defense, lots of shooting - hardly any, etc) . Haven't tried 
 multiplayer. Graphics look decent from the default camera angle over the ice, but when it gets 
 up close, it can look fairly n64-ish.
  
  
  Overall its a pretty fun game, but nothing too special. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZavierKonz
Rating: 5.5
Date: Apr 16, 2007 11:11 am PT
Review:  EA Sports has released another game from the NHL franchise. NHL 07! My first impression was: Oh, 
 that's why it was so cheap, I bought a patch for NHL 06! . I was wrong... This is brand new game 
 but that looks exactly like NHL 05 and 06 almost exactly. They revamped the gameplay and the stick 
 handling a little bit. At first its cool but after a while it becomes uninteresting. The Dynasty 
 mode is exactly like NHL 06 which was probably exactly like 05. By that I mean that the Dynasty 
 mode is very boring. Theres no real challenge and no salary cap The NHL rules have changed but 
 not NHL 07. You can clearly see in the AI that they didnt work on a new system where you can make 
 two line passes for exemple. They just turned off the rule instead They released a slightly revamped 
 version NHL 06. I dont even want to talk about the online mode. Very disappointing, even for $19.99! 
 Oh and I have to add that EA Sports released the game with a horrible roster but cant seem to 
 upload new roster online every month or so like they used to do before. Do they care about PC gamers?
 
  
  Gameplay
  
  The gameplay is boring. Its as simple as rushing the net and doing a one-timer the AI is so stupid 
 that I put it at the most difficult level and I win 11-0. At the end of the game if youre winning 
 by 1 or 2 goals, it seems like the AI will eventually score the crappiest goal just to make it 
 even an annoy you. I am unable to create a nice power play attack and settle in the offensive zone. 
 Oh yeah I forgot, you can still hook A LOT in NHL 07 no penalties. There are still a lot of glitches 
 with the goalies. Ive played hockey all my life and I am a big hockey fan I can tell you that 
 this game is not realistic! Its all bling!
  
  Graphics
  
  Ok graphics. But who cares? Its a hockey game! The graphics are just like the rest of the game 
 a slightly revamped version of NHL 06.
  
  Sounds
  
  Horrible . What bugs me the most are the commentators. They repeat the same thing again and again 
 Very often they dont call the right player and sometimes they call a player that is on another 
 team! I always mute the commentators when I play.
  
  Value
  
  $19.99. I gave it a 5 just because its cheap. You will have fun with your friends for a little 
 while but who really play multiplayer offline on a PC? The online game is very bad anyways.
  
  Tilt
  
  If you played NHL 05 or 06 before, youll get bored of this game really fast. If 
 you never played these games before, you might have fun a little bit longer while you will experience 
 all the bugs and the poor AI of the game.
  
  Unfortunately, I found this game very boring. Might be because I am bored of playing a revamped 
 version year after year but I cant help it.
  
  I give this game a beautiful 5.5/10! Ouch! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GoLpOw
Rating: 6.9
Date: Apr 13, 2007 11:48 am PT
Review:  NHL 07 is a must for every hockey fan, but after you play more than 10 hours, you finaly start 
 to discover a lot of bugs and annoying stuff. ex: when your change your forwards lines ( 1,2,3 
 or 4) sometimes the character you select is not the one who will appear in your lines. Also, When 
 you simulate a game and you win or lose that game, sometimes the win is not credited to your goalkeeper 
 so at the end of your season your team could be 45-32-5 but your goalkeeper stats will be 34-30-2 
 even if he played every games. The rosters patches are also very rare... from late August (game 
 release and hockey season beginning) and early april (hockey season ending) don't expect to download 
 4 or more rosters patches. It would be better if they could release one per month at least.
  Because every month or so, new young player begin to play with their new HNL team in real life 
 and you can't choose them in the game. The graphics and the game-play are pretty good and are getting 
 better and better but if they could do the same thing for those little bugs it would be great. 
 I'm a huge hockey fan and I will continue to buy any NHL game from the EA sport series, but they 
 really need to improve the small details that makes the game exiting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: InSoMnIaK604
Rating: 3.6
Date: Apr 6, 2007 5:09 pm PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying I've been playing EA Sports games since around 2001. This is a HUGE 
 disappointment, let me start off by telling you the *ONE* good part about this game, the roster 
 update, ok yay we get this years roster. Thats the only good thing. Literally EVERYTHING Game-play 
 wise is the same with the one exception being the controls, whoever changed these controls should 
 be stabbed repeatedly, they took the FUN Trick Shot Stick and replaced it with a passing trick 
 stick. Yep. You heard me right. Now, honestly, who the hell wants to PASS the puck. Control Changes
 
  
  Trick Shot Stick &gt; Pass Trick Stick
  Pass/Switch Player &gt; Pass/Poke-Check
  Wrist Shot/Poke Check &gt; Wrist Shot/Useless Duck Thing
  
  Try playing NHL 2006 and then come 
 play this.... you'll see what I mean, its like picking up a totally new totally retarded game, I 
 was ready to rip my eyeballs out of my head after I had seen the new controls. And now onto the 
 sound..... another epic failure, There are only like 10 new songs to listen to, and after playing 
 this for an hour or two you get sick and tired of hearing them, not to mention the announcers, 
 I mean christ, they add NOTHING play with them for an hour or two, you'll be ready to duct tape 
 their mouths shut and shove them off the nearest bridge! Bah, garbage.
  
  anyways, unless the ONLY thing you care about is a new roster, stay the hell away from this game. 
 Buy Nhl 2006. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jade_Monkey
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 18, 2007 7:53 pm PT
Review:  The most common question I face when people find out that I own NHL 07 is is it better than NHL 
 06 . The answer, in my opinion, is yes. I must add though that it is better by only small things, 
 and that is all. If you were to also ask me if it were worth it to upgrade to NHL 07 from NHL 06, 
 I would say it depends on how much you value your money. I bought it the week it came out for $34.99+tax 
 and I didn't blink, but that's me, some people would balk at spending that much for something that 
 only adds marginal improvements and still comes with some issues. Now since it has dropped to $19.99+tax 
 CAD at most stores, it becomes a better deal.
  
  I'll start with the little things like the box and manual. The box is very nicely done with the 
 screenshots on the back, and front. The system requirements are not on the box or manual however. 
 They are on the packaging, but after you throw that out you must refer to the EasyInfo program 
 or the website. I know that EasyInfo is easy to find and use, but I think the system requirements 
 should still also be on the box. I should point out that coming with some copies of the game is 
 a limited edition bronze EA medallion in a case with an Alexander Ovechkin card. This isn't a huge 
 selling point, but it's a nice touch for those that like those kinds of things. Now I come to the 
 manual, or lack thereof. It is 16 pages long, and that's including the warrenty and support. The 
 areas of the game I would of liked better explained is the dynasty mode, and the rules/options. 
 I have played dynasty modes before in NHL 06 and NHL 2001, but in NHL 07 I did have a few questions 
 that are not answered on the website or the manual, I had to go to a forum. The same goes for the 
 options. There are many sliders, some of which are not really explained what effect they will have. 
 Most are straightforward, but not all. The menus were well done and lag free. I found them easy 
 to navigate and they were decent looking to.
  
  Graphically NHL 07 was nothing special. The player models on the ice were good enough but the crowd 
 could of been better. It was however an improvement over the crowd of NBA Live 06, which was horrible 
 in that area. There were some clipping problems, mostly with certain players hair coming straight 
 throught he players helmet, and when I check an opponent into their players bench they go through 
 the boards on parts of their body. The ice itself looked really nice, it seems like a trivial thing, 
 but it was something I noticed first. I also like how the arenas are getting some good detail, 
 especially with the unique entrances to each team. As for the video options I would of liked more. 
 The highest resolution supported is only 1280*920, which is not acceptable in todays games with 
 resolutions going all the way to 2560*1600. Also there is only four different sliders for detail. 
 There is no apparent support for AA, or AF. The soundtrack of NHL 07 was pretty good. Not as good 
 as NHL 06, but still good. On the ice you can hear chatter among players and also shouting from 
 the bench, that was ncie even if there wasn't a lot of variety in it. You can turn certain songs 
 on and off, just as you can in previous renditions of the series, but you cannot redirect the music 
 folder to your own music folder like you were allowed to do in Madden 2004. I miss this feature 
 even if I didn't use it very much, it gave me, and anybody who didn't like the music, to put their 
 own soundtrack in. I think it's a simple thing that wouldn't take very long to code into the game.
 
  
  Playing NHL 07 gave me a complaint that I never thought I would give: it's too easy. I have the 
 difficulty on highest and every slider turned to what I would expect to make it more difficult 
 (no speed burst, etc.) and it does limit me to 3-5 goals, but it limits my opponent to 0-2, still 
 a wide win by me. I can waltz into the net area and no opposing defencemen try to really put up 
 much of a fight. It is still very fun at points, but having a wining percentage of over 90 gets 
 kind of dull. Some could say I could purposly give myself lower quality players to even things 
 up, but I say I shouldn't have to. I hoped I could remedy this by playing online with other players 
 closer to my own skill, but met with bad results. It's not that no one is up to my level, far from 
 it, it's just that the gameplay online is so horribly laggy that it isn't worth playing. It's like 
 playing a PS2 game online for Christ's sake ( I have a suspicion EA ported this game from the PS2 
 to the PC) . That is even more sad because such a good online setup exists with rankings, stat tracking, 
 leagues, and more. If only the gameplay wasn't made so painful it would be awesome to play online. 
 There are many modes to play, dynasty mode being my favorite. One thing I expected that I didn't 
 get though was a fantasy draft for dynasty mode. Madden 2004 had one, NBA Live 06 had one, Madden 
 2005 had one, how hard would of this been ? I also would of liked the autosave feature to be optional, 
 although it became a good thing since my copy seems to like to crash to the desktop every once 
 in a while. What will keep you playing this game ? Well the fact that you need something to play 
 until NHL 08 for one, but there is pretty solid gameplay here that will keep you coming back. I 
 know I have let many of the negative things come to the top of this review, but it is a fun game 
 that I still play, and will continue to play until NHL 08. I am ashamed of EA's online servers 
 though, PC gaming should not be this laggy. Also more support from EA would be nice, there is so 
 far at the time of writing this review, not one patch for NHL 07 to fix any of the problems I mentioned. 
 If the developers don't care about their own game, why should we care enough to buy it ? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: litaichi
Rating: 6.9
Date: Mar 17, 2007 5:58 pm PT
Review:  This game is retarded! Here's why, it's either too easy that you win without trying or it's so 
 difficult that even if you used the top professional players, you'll struggle scoring goals. If 
 you pay just $3 for this game, you paid too much. The goalkeepers (Brodeur &amp; Kippy) give on 
 average a goal in 6 shots. With Rookie level, you skate twice as fast as CPU and you score every 
 2-3 shots. With Easy mode, some easy goals end up wide or high. So yes, Marion Hossa may be standing 
 right next to the net and yet, still overshoot it. Sakic may be only a feet away from the GK, and 
 yet still hit it wide. This happens more than few times in a game and it's getting to the point 
 of annoyance. It's so annoying missing easy shots. With medium mode, the CPU scores every 4-5 shot 
 and with Difficult Mode, only Jesus can beat every game with that level. The point is this: it's 
 either easy that it's boring or it's difficult that it's boring, so basically, this game is boring 
 and annoying. If you want a fun hockey game, go with NHL 2002, but if graphics is your big concern, 
 play NHL 2006, more fun for the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sandpiper121PP
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 22, 2007 9:23 pm PT
Review:  I have been to only a couple of real hockey gamesin my life. I will say this much... you either 
 love it or don't. I personally love hockey and have the utmost respect for the players being that 
 it is a very tough sport. Well with that said... EA captured it all right here... and MORE!!!
 
  
  You will notice from the start that there are a great number of ways to play. From exhibition to 
 season... they are all worth while. They even have a shootout between you and a goalie that is 
 quite fun to play with. Let's take a look at the game overall and see what makes this one of my 
 most favorite games on my shelf.
  
  First of all... it is hockey! In this version you have all of the teams in the NHL plus the some 
 new additions from the foriegn countries. If your team is not in here... I would just be amazed. 
 Just like in the real rink... you can hook, highstick, snap shot, slap shot, wrist shot and more. 
 You can even FIGHT as well. Isn't that what REAL HOCKEY is all about??? Also as I just found out 
 last night... you can shatter the rink glass with the puck as well! Very cool effect! Graphics 
 are very nice in this game as the players look just like they do in real life. Even the coaches 
 are just like the real ones... making it a better game over all as you get the feeling that you 
 are really there. I love how the rink looks with the ice not being perfectly smooth. Instead it 
 does have that glassy look to it with reflectivity somewhat... but you can clearly see the skate 
 marks in it and that just adds to the realism. As the players skate you can see the lines being 
 drawn in the ice and my favorite effect is when the power slide... you see the shavings comming 
 off the ice. Very cool indeed! The rink is also very alive with activity to just enhance the gameplay. 
 From players in the penalty box to the fans with their faces painted and screaming for you... it 
 just looks real! You can even see the banners around the rink changing just like in a real game... 
 and they are not in perfect sync either. Alot of detail went into this version and it shows. The 
 sound is awesome as well as you can hear the players yelling at each other as you fight for the 
 puck and a clean shot. I have yet to get into a fight in the game... but when you slam into another 
 player... it sure sounds real like two bodies just colliding. You can clearly hear the skates and 
 the puck as they glide across the ice. It just gets better as you play. They also incorporated 
 an online way to play but I have not as of yet done that. If it is like the other games that EA 
 puts out... it should be very nice to play online.
  
  In conclusion... if you love hockey... go and get this game! If you have never played or seen a 
 hockey game... and love fast paced sports... go and get this game! I play on a 32 HDTV and it looks 
 better than the real thing in my opinion. I find me playing for hours on end for it is just that 
 great of a game. I personally reccomend that you play with a gamepad with dual analog sticks as 
 that makes playing the game alot easier than the keyboard. You can customize the controls and make 
 it very easy to play! Now... GO AND GET THIS GAME!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Viper_con
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 12, 2007 11:40 am PT
Review:  Not much different from the previous 3 releases of NHL 200X. However, the graphics and sound quality 
 are phenomenal. The controls are pretty much exactly the same as previous versions. This makes 
 the learning curve a lot easier to handle. The overall play factor is still missing something, 
 I just can't
  put my finger on it yet.
  
  Updated rosters is always nice to have. When you are playing on a PC it is so much easier to use 
 a Logitech game control device rather than the old-timer... Oops, I mean Old-School Keyboard configuration 
 technique.
  
  Create your players, draft them onto your team, create a new team. Doesn't matter, hours of hockey 
 fun are waiting to be unleashed onto your HD, and Video Card... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ko_be
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 28, 2007 11:53 am PT
Review:  i bought this game two days ago but still haven't installed and waiting for your thoughts and wondering 
 that why gamespot gave such a low score which is 7.1 . So , what things didn't you like in the 
 game , why low score why why
  explain me the reason of it. bla bla 
 
  
 
  aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa
  aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa
  aaaaaaaaaaaaaa
  aaaaaaaaaaaa
  aaaaaaaaaaa
  aa
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa
  a
  a
  a
  aa
  a
  a
  a
  a
 
  aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa
  a
  a
  a
  aaaaaaa aaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa
  
  aaaaaaaaaaaaaaa
  a
  aaaaaaa
  a
  a
  aaa
  
  a
  aa
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
 
  a
  a
  a
  
  a
  aa
  a
  a
  a
  aaaaaaaaaa
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  a
  
  aaaaaaaa 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BLTom5
Rating: 5.3
Date: Jan 11, 2007 6:42 pm PT
Review:  It's really hard to understand how the PC wasn't categorized as a next-gen system warranting a 
 nice spiffy new version of this franchise, instead of the resissue of NHL 06 that this game turned 
 out to be. It's a little updated, but as has been EA's style in the last 3 or 4 years, they took 
 one tiny step forward and 2 big steps backward.
  
  The most depressing thing about this is that they used to make a good hockey game! Even if they 
 had left the engine relatively unchanged from the old mid-90's era games, they'd be more fun than 
 the garbage they're putting out these days. The AI is terrible.... really, really, really terrible. 
 It's the 21st century, guys -- that means nobody should have to play a hockey game in which the 
 players pretend the puck doesn't even exist. Watch your D-men on the power play and jsut see if 
 they try to keep the puck in. If it's going over their heads, they'll just stand there. It makes 
 me feel like I'm 8 years old and playing my Commodore 64. EA's chemistry system and its player 
 attributes scheme are moronic. You're telling me that Sakic, Hejduk, and Ovechkin would suffer 
 from playing together? And that Burnaby Joe would somehow skate faster, turn quicker, check better, 
 and shoot harder if he's lined up with Brendan Shanahan and Sami Kapanen? That doesn't make any 
 damn sense! Whatever happened to Offensive/Defensive Awareness as a way to accurately measure what 
 separates a fast guy like Shean Donovan from a fast guy like Ilya Kovalchuk? In EA's system, I 
 could score 60 goals (or more) a year with either of them, despite the fact that that is never, 
 ever going to happen in real life. Take Gretzky as an example: what set him apart wasn't his skating 
 or shooting ability so much as his vision, his awareness, and his smarts... but EA has no way to 
 work that vital attribute into their players. The CPU magically comes back as soon as you score 
 a goal or two, especially in the last period. The game looks *nothing* like a real hockey game... 
 which wouldn't be such a big deal if it was somehow fun in an arcade-kind-of-way. But it isn't. 
 NHL 2007 is a joke. And just to add insult to injury, they went ahead and released the PC version 
 with bugs all over the place. Go ahead: I dare you to try to change your first-line left wing. 
 The game *won't let you*, unless you reload it and try again. What a waste of time! EA ought to 
 be ashamed of itself. Just once, it would be great to have them keep the good and FIX the bad, 
 instead of ruining the good and changing the bad without making it any better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iciris
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 2, 2007 11:07 pm PT
Review:  I have always loved the NHL games, either by 2KSports or by EA Sports, it seems that each year 
 they try and be better then the other company (Like all companies should) and each your they seam 
 to pass the torch back and forth. Last year it was NHL2K6 that I like better then NHL06 and this 
 year I like NHL07 over NHL2K7.
  
  I have played on Xbox360, PC, and PS2. I love the controls for the Xbox360 the most however I do 
 not own one so I am best with my Keyboard and Mouse setup that I use when I am at home. The Default 
 controls on the PS2 and PC are really weird personally so I changed them up to better suit myself. 
 For some reason it wouldn't let me switch the controls to use my classic Alt, m, n, b, v, space 
 setup that I used to use for all the older NHL games.
  
  The graphics were top notch for the PC, I say this because I am having problems with compatibility 
 with Window Vista, I have everything turned on max however it wont let me change out of 640x480 
 so it looks very pixelated or like I am playing on a regaler TV, so I guess it could be worse.
 
  
  The sounds are good, however like always they do not program enough voices into the announcers, 
 after you play about 4 games you get too used to what they are saying, I can almost quote them 
 on what they are going to say after I score a goal.
  
  Character creation is good, you can change what your player uses, and their stats change how much 
 they are worth in a regular season with the salary cap. The team creation is just as good, and 
 it allows you to replace a team in the season so that you can use a custom team to win the Stanley 
 Cup.
  
  The fighting system was weird, I do not know what I am supposed to do but I smash a whole bunch 
 of buttons and seem to win half the time. :D
  
  The trading system seams to work good, and with the Dynasty mode you need to trade and keep in 
 mind things for the next year, with draft picks, contracts, etc. I personally made my team stacked 
 trading for most of the stars. Sure I stacked my team, but I can't keep them next year... thanks 
 to contracts.
  
  The value of this game was superb, I play these games all year until the next one comes out then 
 I try both 2K's and EA's and decide which one I am getting to keep me tied over for the rest of 
 the year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LoJo10
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 9, 2006 9:28 am PT
Review:  First, the gameplay. The game is very easy to learn - however, I use a logitech gamepad, the kind 
 they recommend, so to completely get the best experience you need to have a dual analog gamepad. 
 One of the main reasons is because passing is done with the right analog stick. The controls at 
 first seemed kind of awkward, because speed boost and shoot were assigned to the triggers - but 
 after playing a few games you get used to it and it's really fun. Also, the difficulty seems about 
 right; there are four levels, beginner, easy, medium, and difficult. As with all EA Sports games, 
 the first two levels are a joke; medium and difficult make the game more realistic, but probably 
 most so on difficult. I play the dynasty mode with the Florida Panthers, and in real life they 
 suck, but I won the Stanley Cup my first year. But it's not like I went undefeated the whole year 
 - I lost five games and had 7 overtime losses - so it's not too hard to imagine a team being that 
 good, regardless of talent.
  
  The dynasty mode is excellent. You are placed in the GM position, and the owner gives you upgrades 
 that make your team better, in terms of skill or in terms of front office things. For instance, 
 having better coaches in the goalie upgrades or skating upgrade will increase your players talent 
 for those attributes, and for legal, you can sign players for cheaper and save money. And as you 
 do better, you get more upgrades.
  
  The graphics are awesome. You should have a semi-decent machine to run it, but with my configuration, 
 AMD 3800+, 1 GB Ram, 7300GT graphics card, it runs perfectly, with absolutely no slowdown, even 
 if I play four games in a row.
  
  The commentary by Jim Hughson and Craig Simpson is pretty good, but at times it gets very repetitive, 
 and somewhat not that great to listen to. I've must have heard Simpson say the same fact about 
 Olli Jokinen 120 times, at least once a game after he scores or whatnot. But regardless, they do 
 a pretty good job in the booth. The last hockey game I played was NHL 2002, and to be honest, I've 
 never heard commentary in any sports game as good as in that game - Hughson and the other older 
 guy who used to do the commentary were absolutely hilarious - in this game I find that Hughson 
 and Simpson aren't as crazy, which I wish they were.
  
  The soundtrack is awesome; this kind of music is the stuff you'd want to listen to on your own; it's 
 not crap like a lot of music in sports games, and there are about 20 songs, so it's not like you're 
 going to hear the same song every minute.
  
  I've played about 120 games of this game, and it's still fun, so it has a very good value.
  
 
  So if you've got a good enough computer, go out, buy a logitech dual action controller if you 
 don't already have one, and then buy NHL 07; you won't be sorry. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yoonen123
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 2, 2006 8:10 pm PT
Review:  I've played all the NHL games so far, this one (NHL 07) is by far the hardest one to play. Its 
 kinda like NHL 97 (you know the one with the cool intromovie with the We can be Heroes David Bowie 
 song) . No powerbars, no big fights, they gone back to basics, and it rocks. Cus now when I am playing 
 a Season, I'd lose some matches against the PC. There's still the fact that the PC will pick up 
 the pace and rally in three goals in 2 minutes, but its better balanced overall. And finally its 
 just nice to win, cus you got to work for it. Graphics are pretty mediocre, so no surprises there. 
 Some of the ingame movies will be the same as in NHL 06, but they made a bit of progress with some 
 movies with players tossing the puck with theirs sicks, kinda fun. Also the sound isnt really improves, 
 some of the same lines of the older versions are spoken out, so dont expects improvements there 
 also.
  
  But still the game plays much better, its more competitive, passes from the side are not always 
 finding their man, because the bodies now really are obstacles. Furthermore the shots from distance 
 are improved and will more easily hit the back of the net. One final thing to say, I didnt play 
 the only stuff, so please check other reviews for that, but the core game is improved. Great job 
 EA Sports!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aa1to
Rating: 4.6
Date: Nov 19, 2006 7:34 am PT
Review:  NHL2004 was obviously as good as it gets, because every title since then has just been worse and 
 worse. I won't even waste my energy on writing about how much NHL'07 stinks, I'll just show it 
 to you:
  
  http://home. aland. net/ma22282/nhl2007_sucks. avi
  
  That is EA Sports biggest problem, the goalies. One game they're like the chinese wall, the other 
 game, well, see the video above. Sure, every real goalkeeper has his ups and downs, but this is 
 extreme. More animations is desperately needed, more natural behaviour overall, and finally, secure 
 even the simpliest low-shot or pass with a pad or anything at all, so we don't have to see our 
 passes back to goalie slide into the net, between the goalies legs. This is ridiculous, really. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pxc2k
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 30, 2006 5:01 pm PT
Review:  I would say that several emotions hit me the instant I saw NHL and 07 so close when I read, back 
 then, the preview of what is, today, NHL 07.
  
  After being feed up with those interesting teasing videos showing that cute and dynamic interface 
 I have to admit my first reaction was to find a tissue to clean my drool. And pass to the nex t 
 video then.
  
  Inmerse on a fantasy of exciting ice hockey, violent fights, ESPN's highlight-of-the-day-goal and 
 some catchy tunes my only thought after seeing all that was: Nice .
  
  Of course good things don't last forever and they arrived when I got my new copy of this franchise. 
 Determined not to waste any time, I stopped worshipping the box, opened it, and took from the inside 
 this new-born child, this progidy which I expected to be the next breathrough in computer sports.
 
  
  Nedless to say how disappointed I was when I realized the interface didn't change *that* much, 
 ignoring it for a moment as my fingers clicked viciously into the advance arrow to start my first 
 game.
  
  After a very short load of time, something I still sense like a strong point of this series, the 
 -aweful- truth presented upon me: I couldn't help checking, and double checking and triple checking 
 to see if I was hustled by the people who sold me this: for an instant I thought I was ripped of 
 with a bad NHL 06 copy in a new fancy box.
  
  Ladies and gentlement take my word as sacred when I say EA division in charge of NHL spent the 
 last year doing nothing.
  
  Sure, there's a 3 mille long line of people waiting to tell me the impressive and revolutionary 
 concepts the game introduced in PC gaming. Forgive me for not being a literate in this matter but 
 I will have to strongly disagree with that.
  
  First of all, seems the NHL 07 we all saw at the preview pictures and videos is not the same we 
 got in our PC and compatibles. That's, for what I've seen and heard, a console version. Let's face 
 it: consoles are in charge now. As an old-school PC gamer there's nothing that hurts me more than 
 that. Would be like finding that Largo Leckuch was actually a bad pirate without relationship with 
 our beloved Threepwood. I know. I'm with you.
  
  Secondly, despite the game feels like NHL 06, hears like NHL 06, play like NHL 06, wises to be 
 NHL 06's collectors edition , it is not. Is a new game, with a new price tag, a new box and, forgive 
 me if I could not find it inside he packaging, but some people say a new concept in playing games.
 
  
  Stil, I played the whole dynasty season, with my own custom team ( Las Vegas Cashiers , by theway) , 
 and won the cup. First couple of games in easy, then in medium then in hard. After the open season, 
 playoffs' and a couple more games from the new season I still can't take this weird taste from 
 my mouth that is telling me: Dude, you have been cheated on .
  
  The players move basically the same, the goalies commit the same ridiculous saves, and suffer the 
 same ridiculous goals too. Oh and the referees are still blind and, for worse, you can't still 
 hit them on purporse. Oh, let's face it, how many times you wanted to charge towards a bad referee 
 with your best hitter and send him to the seat for the rest of the season, just to let them know 
 they have the whistle, but you own the barbarian horde.
  
  Besides the  thingy, the dynasty menu, with some 
 small new additions, is basically the same. Now you have Minor League where you can send players 
 to improve or just because you need to cause you are over the salary cap. Rest assure Joe Sakic 
 was not very happy to spend 90 games in there cause the NHL just wouldn't let me pass the 44 M. 
 Something you can't change either.
  
  Play-by-play. The same as previous versions. And when I say the same I *mean* the same. Same play-by-play, 
 same commentors, same expressions on the same situations. Nothing new. I mean it.
  
  I'd have to say the only thing that I liked about NHL 07 (yes, there are a couple small things) , 
 was the new shooting system. No matter if you have Mr. MVP  
 shots are played by odds too so, you won't get 100% shooting no matter what. Players now miss, 
 and they miss big time. Of course, the newly drafter rookie from Siberia probably takes one opportunity 
 to shoot at the goalie and he scores&iexcl; while Sakic spent 10 shots doing it without even hitting 
 the bar. Get used to it.
  
  Stadium sounds, crowd comments, sings (for the cheer up) are --yes, you are right! -- , exactly the 
 same.
  
  Overall, I liked (far from enjoyed ) playing the season. Will I play a second one?. Not a chance. 
 Perhaps you are calling me pretentious, or you are just agreeing with me on every single word I 
 typed. Either way, the game is nice, but not *that* nice.
  
  They haven't reasearched about today's gamers, computer specs, and all the mambo jambo. The game 
 is not near hardware demanding. I'd consider it a very good game from a small european software 
 company but, coming from the biggest games producer on earth?, they should feel insulted by their 
 own product.
  
  To finish this amateur review, I am letting you know I just uninstalled the game already, put in 
 that precious, lovely packaging and stored it on my shelf. Next to NHL 2001, NHL 2003 and, while 
 ironic, NHL 2006. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killahospital
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 12, 2006 4:25 pm PT
Review:  From 05-06-07, Ive heard lots of complaints about NHL, its too arcadey. etc. I dont understand 
 that. 05 was the best Hockey game made, then 06 was the best hockey game made, and now to 07. Try 
 playing the games in reverse order to really appreciate how far these games have come.
  
  I was disappointed that there wasnt much of a difference in 06 -07 current gen.
  
  Major differences:
 
  
  - Goalies are improved huge, they play a little more realistic, and dont dive to the wrong side 
 on stupid wraparounds.
  
  - Defence is significantly tougher.
  
  - Defelections ease has been turned down.
  
  - D-men shooting from the point is much more effective.
 
  
  - Using quick wrist shots is also much more effective.
  
  Disappointments:
  
  - Rosters updated, yet so many missing players... where is Malkin? Staal? Semin? Radulov?
  
 
  - Same animated scenes, as 06.. come on guys thats just lazy.
  
  - Computer likes to cheat where they non stop hook you to get possesion, even though you are skating 
 turbo and passing and deking well.. (ref doesnt call hooking penalties on them)
  
  - Why does Dynasty mode not have FANTASY DRAFT and Season does?? Who wants to play season when 
 there is dynasty mode?
  
  Overall, NHL 07 seemed like a disappointment from what I was expecting. Yet as mad as I can be, 
 I cannot deny that NHL 07 is still the best Hockey game to date. (havent tried the XBOX360 version 
 yet tho) .
  
  NHL 2K series just doesnt cut it. EA NHL 07. If you loved 06, get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PoopManBob
Rating: 4.5
Date: Oct 9, 2006 1:20 pm PT
Review:  Short and simple. Few new half cooked features, less floppy goalies, easier to score and still 
 the same horrible online play.
  Dont waste your money. Dont waste your money. Dont waste your money. Dont waste your money. Dont waste 
 your money. Dont waste your money. Dont waste your money. Dont waste your money. Dont waste your money. Dont 
 waste your money. Dont waste your money. Dont waste your money. Dont waste your money. Dont waste your 
 money. Dont waste your money. Dont waste your money. Dont waste your money. Dont waste your money. Dont 
 waste your money. Dont waste your money. Dont waste your money. Dont waste your money. Dont waste your 
 money. Dont waste your money. Dont waste your money. Dont waste your money. Dont waste your money. Dont 
 waste your money. Dont waste your money. Dont waste your money. Dont waste your money. Dont waste your 
 money. Dont waste your money. Dont waste your money. Dont waste your money. Dont waste your money. Dont 
 waste your money. Dont waste your money. Dont waste your money. Dont waste your money. Dont waste your 
 money. Dont waste your money. Dont waste your money. Dont waste your money. Dont waste your money. Dont 
 waste your money. Dont waste your money. Dont waste your money. Dont waste your money. Dont waste your 
 money. Dont waste your money. Dont waste your money. Dont waste your money. Dont waste your money. Dont 
 waste your money. Dont waste your money. Dont waste your money. Dont waste your money. Dont waste your 
 money. Dont waste your money. Dont waste your money. Dont waste your money. Dont waste your money. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: notme80
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 7, 2006 7:47 am PT
Review:  The first game I ever bought was NHL Hockey back in 1995 and I really enjoyed it, spent a couple 
 of months playing it. Then I played NHL 04 &amp; 06 for short periods of time but never really 
 got it going. Buying NHL 07 was meant to bring back old good memories. Having spent almost 200 
 hours with it I am still not sure whether it's worth its price. The game is very playable, it builds 
 on you, the games are pretty entertaining supported by nice graphics &amp; excellent sound. I have 
 finished Dynasty mode which lets you control several aspects of running an NHL club picking up 
 the Stanley Cup on the road. What I am missing here is options actually, the amount of things you 
 are able to customize is fairly limited. Most important statistics are there but some really basic 
 things are left out, for instance there is no way to see all your matches in a single table, you 
 can't go back to a match and see its details. Unfortunately, the game is just too easy, imagine 
 winning World Championship at the highest difficulty level playing Japan. All in all, a solid product 
 that will give you an opportunity to score a lot of nice goals and make a couple of big-time hits. 
 What is missing is innovation! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: foever86
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 3, 2006 11:41 pm PT
Review:  For those who played NHL06, including myself, probably expected same graphics and gameplay out 
 of NHL07. Some were even saying it's better to be called NHL06 V1.5 instead of NHL07. But my impression? 
 Better than I expected.
  
  As many of you expected, graphic shows no improvement fron NHL06. NHL06 graphic wasn't too bad, 
 but NHL07 is supposed to be a new release and consumers wouldn't really like that. They did include 
 a few more in-game scenes like a few fans cheering for their home team, but it's just not impressive 
 enough.
  
  Starting menu interface looks same, in-game menu interface looks same, dynasty mode.... well looks 
 pretty much the same. They did change a few things in dynasty mode, although it's not too impressive. 
 It's still suffering from having same schedules every season and still have those dumb goals from 
 your owner. The most obvious and biggest change is having a salary cap. That would be the only 
 and the biggest difference from NHL06. Well, way you upgrade your club did change as you don't 
 control your budget anymore. Everytime you win game you gain owner's trust and that could help 
 you earn stars which can be spent for upgrading your facilities.
  
  Gameplay, however, did change. First of all, goaltending is actually improved. Note that I said 
 improved, but not solved. That means your goaltender will still make some crazy moves for no reason 
 and allow stupid goals sometime. But I clearly see way less flipping compared to 06 and just skating 
 by the goaltender actually doesn't make him lie down and start rolling. Having such improvement 
 actually made this game a bit more playable, but other parts like AI defense are still pretty much 
 the same.
  
  Although NHL07 doesn't have any step forward from NHL06, I would give a slightly higher score than 
 NHL06. However, with all those things still needed to fixed, I am afraid to say this game doesn't 
 worth $39.99 CAN. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: helluvagood
Rating: 8.6
Date: Sep 27, 2006 7:04 pm PT
Review:  NHL07 comes back with a fury, improved graphics, thankfully better defense from the players, and 
 some new catchy tunes and addicting gameplay.
  
  The gameplay is what shines in NHL 07 (xbox) , even without the new skill stick, exclusive for NHL 
 07 (360) the game is just as or possible even more addicting than NHL 06. Even though they took 
 out the skill move (The one with the right analog, where you do some fancy moves and almost always 
 score with it, which was pretty cheap) , you still can deke and spin deke, which creates many cool 
 goals. The defense (players) have greatly improved from 06 and the goalies no long do the two pad 
 stack everytime you shoot, only rarely will they do it. The grahpics are stunning, improved from 
 last year and a joy to look at! The graphics are definitly better than 2k7s.
  
  Sound is great, new songs, still the same commentary guy, but they added a few things more dialogues 
 in. Good value, the game can last for a long time, especially in dynasty mode.
  
  Overall 07 is a better improvement from 06, even though they took out a few things, NHL 07 still 
 packs a powerful punch. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KLN2002
Rating: 7.2
Date: Sep 26, 2006 9:04 pm PT
Review:  NHL 07 for the PC looks exactly the same as NHL 06, so those of you looking for a jump to next 
 gen on the PC will have to wait for at least another year. The primary difference between NHL 07 
 and the previous game is that the Passing button has been remapped to the Right Analog stick on 
 your game pad. This took some time to get use to the new control scheme, after adjusting the game 
 plays very much like the predecessor.
  
  There are some tweaked puck physics, and the removal of some of the trick shots from last year, 
 which seem to make the game slightly lower scoring/realistic. The main improvements have been to 
 the dynasty mode, which now can be played in several different leagues.
  
  All in all NHL 07 has a couple modest improvements from the previous game, but really dosent offer 
 anything new, besides the control scheme. If you havent bought a hockey game in a while go ahead 
 and pick this one up, if you have NHL 06 dont bother updating 
::::::

::::::
UserName: death_zone
Rating: 5.2
Date: Sep 26, 2006 2:03 am PT
Review:  I'm not sure what is EA doin on the current gen version of NHL...
  This game feels and looks the same since NHL 2003...!! i know it doesnt exactly look the same.. but 
 there's really not much different in it...
  
  This game has changed at all except for the passing stick.. that's all.. and that doesnt make the 
 game feel different.. u can still feel this is last years game with updated rosters...
  
  NHL 07 is still a high scoring game.. Animations are the same as NHL 06..
  
  Graphics for PC 
 is nicer than NHL 06 a bit and than on consoles.. Same refree faces... The ice still have reflections 
 where the real ice hockey dont have much reflections on the ice.
  
  Rules of NHL aren't accurate... there are still rules in the Real NHL are not applied in the game.. Game 
 is way too fast this year in NHL 07..
  
  the only good thing about it is.. At least EA came out with NHL 07 for the current gen consoles, and 
 to me, that is still a bad news coz the game is the same from previous NHL tittles..
  
  If you wanna get this game.. get it for Xbox 360.. dont get the current gen version,, coz this years 
 NHL 07 for current gen.. really suckS! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Force_field
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 25, 2006 4:41 pm PT
Review:  The game is still very addictive, just as it's predecessors were.
  The skill (pass) stick carries a good improvement in the game, because it adds that no look pass 
 moment which was often needed in fast actions!
  Graphics and sound are just as in NHL06, but the gameplay is somehow softer and less brutal than 
 before. Goals seem a bit easier to score and have the same amount of that uh, well, it's almost 
 real feeling as before. The animation still has its glitches and jumps, but it will probably always 
 have it. Finally, NHL07 is not a bad game at all, but a really small improvement for the same price 
 again &amp; again! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tieio
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 25, 2006 12:11 am PT
Review:  For the first time since NHL 2000, EA sports improved from the previous version of their game. 
 It is not a big move up, and it is still not worth buying, but at least they did not make this 
 version worse than the last like each version did for the past 5 years.
  
  The alternative, 2k7 is also not much better, so what to do for a hockey fix this year? Play NHL: EHM 
 2007, that's what.
  
  I would write a long review, but I doubt I need to with all of the reviews here already, most of 
 them are fairly accurate. This is a marginal game and it is worth playing if you need to play some 
 hockey video game style. I can't wait to see next years game, at this pace of small improvement, 
 we should have a decent NHL game by 2011. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Braxen
Rating: 8.2
Date: Sep 20, 2006 7:43 am PT
Review:  NHL06 was IMO the best hockey game ever released for PC. Finally I felt that I had full control 
 of the puck and where the puck should go. I could make awesome manual dekes and score pretty goals.
 
  
  Sure it had some flaws but was a formidable hockeygame none the less.
  
  NHL07 is, as you&acute; ve probably read in numerous other reviews, about the same with a few exceptions.
 
  
  I don&acute; t use the dynasty mode, I just play the occasional exhibition game against the computer 
 and mostly I play online against a friend, so I&acute; m just covering the gameplay area here.
 
  
  Graphics: About the same as last year, except that the differences in size isn&acute; t as freaked 
 out as last year where some players looked like they weighed about 400lbs, and some looked like 
 little kids. Sounds: New sound FX for some hits &amp; puck rebounds. Can&acute; t say that I&acute; m 
 overly impressed by the sounds the hits make. Sounds like the players are made of fiberglass or 
 something. Goalie-rebound fx are great. There is a certain thump sound when it hits the pads that 
 sounds really good.
  
  Gameplay: The superdekes and fake shots have been removed. WHY!? Also the poke-move is totally 
 screwed up. Hold the poke-button and your player looks like he&acute; s having a seizure. Otherwise 
 it feels pretty solid. Passing has been sped up and improved. Goalies let in some fluke-goals which 
 I&acute; m getting used to more and more. Just means that they are human.
  
  AI: Pretty ok. Sliders need to be adjusted to make it more challenging, since the computer often 
 skates waaaay to close to your goal to be able to score. He practically stands on the goalie when 
 he&acute; s about to shoot. Defense plays pretty good, and your offensive players are just where 
 you want them most of the time. Overall: Solid hockeygame with a few gameplay features missing 
 (see gameplay) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hellegr
Rating: 4.8
Date: Sep 18, 2006 2:27 pm PT
Review:  I've owned just about every EA NHL game since the original on the Genesis. This is by far the most 
 disappointing. I'm a hardcore hockey fan and this game holds no appeal to me at all. Each year 
 it becomes less innovative and more of just a rehash. Apparently, the Xbox 360 version is much 
 better. Jim Hughson and Craig Simpson are as annoying as they've been for the past 3 years. Thorne 
 and Clement would have been much better. The gamepad control scheme is TERRIBLE and I can't change 
 it to suit my style. It's like trying to re-learn the game all over again. EA has effing nerve 
 charging for this piece of crap. I would have been happier paying $5 or $10 to download the updated 
 rosters (which actually seem worse than recent years in terms of accuracy) . There are players on 
 one team that were actually traded in November of last season even though the guy for which they 
 were traded are also on the same roster. Do not buy this game if you have any EA NHL game from 
 the last 5 years. It's a piece of crap. I'm switching to the Take Two game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tute_fruy
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 17, 2006 3:50 pm PT
Review:  I was looking forward wildly to NHL 07 and expecting some great things out of it. Now don't get 
 me wrong, there is some great things, but also some large flaws. Lets just say i'm happy I tried 
 this game out at a friend's first.
  
  Pros:
  As soon as I got the game up and running, I obviously wanted to test out the new rookie wonders 
 in shootout mode. Crosby and Ovechkin of course. I was impressed. (Buyer beware, it is a Free4All 
 mini-game shootout, expanded from the original Free4All mode, not an actual shootout.) The physics 
 blew my mind, and the movement of the goaltender even more so. The gameplay seems to be the most 
 realistic in any hockey game I have ever played. The graphics are great, every face is recognizeable. 
 The sound is a step up from EA's usual in terms of soundtrack, not commentary. Although the game 
 may not differ a ton, and as some say feels like a pacth for '06, it still is fun to play. Rosters 
 are up to date for the most part, leaving out about ten, non-major recent trades, which can be 
 manually updated in a few minutes by checking this link out -&gt; http://www. nhl. com/features/insider/deals_summer2006. html
 
  
  Cons:
  I'll start off saying, controls may take a few games to get use to, but I actually like them, main 
 reason - EA changed something! But it goes by player's preference. First noticeable detail, not 
 much in terms of mode has changed, but what do you expect from EA. For non-Xbox 360 versions, commentary 
 is bland and the same as previous years, filling space, but in an awkward way. Second detail, Xbox 
 360 version of '07 will outscore any other version by a mile, not because of some new graphics 
 (that are absolutley amazing) , but because all it's features seem full. For example I was dissapointed 
 that the Skill Stick is only for passing. *Sigh* Third detail, now I am a bit rusty, and there 
 is new controls. I'm not expecting to win much in the early season in Dynasty mode on difficult. 
 Game one: Atlanta-7 vs Tampa Bay-1. Yes, 7-1. Slava Kozlov pots four goals, Bondra pots two, all 
 top-corner, glove side. Marc Denis doesn't have that bad of a glove hand, does he? If this flaw 
 was not here, the game would be a welcome challenge, and my favourite hockey game yet, but just 
 how much fun is a season going 82-0-0 and outscoring your opponents by six every game? Not very.
 
  
  Conclusion: Simply put, a fun game with great graphics. Buyer beware of lack of change from '06, 
 and lack of challenge. Otherwise great game. I'm hoping the PS2 version is tougher to score on 
 then this PC version. I also wish I had Xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CarCrazy709
Rating: 8.2
Date: Sep 17, 2006 1:20 am PT
Review:  The best thing to know about when buying a game is thoroughly knowing about its problems.
  
  The cons:
  
  NHL 07's got bugs and I mean LOTS.
  
  Then there are the stupid bugs from 
 06 that have made their way back
  in, such as goal and penalty cutscenes disappearing after about 8 or
  more goals have been scored 
 in a game. But there are things like
  goaltenders having equipment from teams they played for a year or two
  ago (Khabibulin has his 
 Tampa set) , board advertisements missing from
  the ACC and a few other arenas, goal horns are still fake and crappy,
  looks like I'll have to 
 change that again. And the crowds... how boring
  really. I'm not sure if you've played 2006 FIFA World Cup by EA, but
  that game hands down has 
 the most amazing atmosphere, you feel like
  you're watching the game in the stadium! They do this by great
  commentating and a LOUD and interactive 
 crowd. In NHL 07, the arena
  goes silent and all you hear is dull skating sounds.
  
  Speaking of sounds, some of them are ridiculous. Players seem like containers made of composite 
 plastic and metal pieces because they make the strangest crashing and banging noises when they 
 fall to the ice. Apart from those issues, the sounds are improved a bit.
  
  Apart from that, the highest difficulty was a joke. The AI was
  averaging 2 or 3 shots on me 
 and most of my shots from the slot or
  point were going in. Also, the upper glove is the new money goal this
  year... I had to downloaded 
 a slider editor and edit things until it
  became realistic enough to enjoy. Other than that, I enjoy my Anaheim
  Ducks season and am looking 
 forward to the playoffs which EA said were
  revamped.
  
  Penalties, penalties...90% of the penalties in this game are high-sticking and 50% of those look 
 terrible in the replay. You'll see players getting high-sticking penalties for skating past one 
 another and barely touching.
  
  Now onto the controls. If you get frustrated easily, buy a gamepad for this game. I've gotten used 
 to the crazy controls on my keyboard but they're absolutely disgraceful, especially due to the 
 lack of redefining them properly.
  
  The goaltending is a MAJOR improvement over NHL 06, but an improved manual control would've beeen 
 welcomed. Basically, you can only move the goalie to cover a shot and they move quite slow laterally, 
 making it easy to leave a whole side open in a split-second. I'm not
  sure if you remember NHL 98, but you could do anything you wanted
  with the goalie. There was 
 a whole array of moves and saves to do
  using a combination of the arrow keys and the shoot button, depending on where the puck was positioned.
 
  
  Pros:
  
  What can I say? The AI is outstanding. Your teammates are capable of making plays and position 
 themselves properly, either to send an opponent to the ice or intercept a cross-crease pass. The 
 opponent AI has been greatly improved as well. No longer will they spin behind their own net waiting 
 for you to take the puck. They set up plays behind the net and pass to wingers and play their positions 
 perfectly.
  
  Graphics are exactly as they were in NHL 06. This is one department I've been pleased with in the 
 NHL series for some time. This year EA has added a nice blurring effect to backgrounds in cut-scenes.
 
  
  Thank you EA for a proper soundtrack since NHL 2004. Of course, they skimp with the licensing fees 
 by grabbing artists trying to make a name for themselves on the market, but this year's game boasts 
 a wide selection of talented newcomers.
  
  The fun is back. I'm finally having fun playing this game, everything after NHL 2004 has been a 
 frustrating experience but it looks like EA straightened up by improving the gameplay this year.
 
  
  After downloading the roster update (well done EA for making it so quick this year) , I find the 
 rosters up-to-date and fulfilling. The coaches are all with their respective teams and retired 
 players are out of the teams. With the exception of Keith Primeau of course, but let's forgive 
 EA for that, he did announce it quite recently ;)
  
  Some nice additions have made their way in, such as new cut-scenes and a few new play-by-play and 
 commentary lines. You'll also see new details and little things, such as sports drinks on a table 
 near the player entrances. Cute.
  
  And it seems like EA has strenghtened their ties with Dodge/Daimler-Chrysler this year as a 2007 
 Dodge Nitro stands upon a podium near the outdoor rink and also provides the 3 stars presentation. 
 And Jim Hughson can't get enough of saying Dodge ;)
  
  Disappointments?
  
  The shootout mode. I was expecting the type of shootout that the next-gen version provided, the 
 type of shootout gamemode found in NHL 98 that directly took you to instant action between two 
 teams. Instead, it is free-for-all with shootout rules.
  
  Goal horns? I expected them to be realistic this year but was once again proven wrong. The goal 
 celebration cut-scenes are way too short to include the authentic goal horns and music. I'd like 
 to see multiple replays for goals, just like the FIFA series.
  
  Again, the crowd. Although this time they finally cheer when the home team scores, the crowds are 
 as dull as heck and do nothing to create the atmosphere of a wild and exciting hockey arena.
  
  Overall, the game is very playable but I'd advise tweaking it to suit your needs. I'll definitely 
 have fun until NHL 08. So get out there and win a Stanley Cup, keep your stick on the ice! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: third_twin
Rating: 6.3
Date: Sep 16, 2006 3:36 pm PT
Review:  The next generation of Hockey is here. Well, on the Xbox360 atleast. The PC version of the game 
 along with current gen consoles is nothing but NHL 06 with a few tweaks and new rosters. The games 
 graphics are nearly identical to those in 06. It uses the same engine, though functional, with 
 the setting maxed out it still looks a couple years behind current PC games. There are subtle changes 
 such as the upper crowd is made up of more detailed sprites and a filter or shader is used in the 
 background during most cut scenes. The overall presentation of the game appears to be done on a 
 low budget. The games menus are not animated in any way and seem like a step down from previous 
 NHL games which were much more full of life. Some of the menus can be confusing too (if you have 
 played 06 you are already familiar with the layout) and make trying to manage your team that much 
 less fun than it should be. There are several different modes including Season, Dynasty, Exhibition, 
 Free For All, Shootout Minigame and Online. The only new mode, Shootout, isnt really just a slight 
 variation of the free for all. All the others are much the same as before. Dynasty mode has been 
 tweaked for the better. There is now a salary cap and the system for your teams expectations has 
 been overhauled. You now gain confidence from your owner by winning games and get more trust depending 
 on how big an underdog you were in the game. When you loose you loose trust in the same way. In 
 EA hockey tradition 07 has a new gimmicky control feature, replacing the skill stick of last year. 
 To pass now you flick the right analog stick in the direction you want. This works pretty well 
 and is one of the best new features we've seen in a while. Although you need to use precision or 
 the pass wont go where you intended. To compliment the new passing system the controls have been 
 changed around completely which takes some getting used to. Unless your using the keyboard and 
 none of this applies to you. NHL 07 does a respectable job when it comes to hitting the ice. It 
 plays a decent game of hockey, a bit arcade like, and if thats all your really interested in then 
 this game might be for you. Veterans of the series will likely find the game to be on the easy 
 side but will appreciate that the AI has been tweaked a bit. Goalies no longer stack the pads every 
 other shot and deffencemen dont go for a line change when the other team is on an odd man rush. 
 Hitting has been reduced, now players will often stay on their feet and keep the puck when bumped. 
 One timers are less likely to go in and instead it is easier to score in other ways (moving laterally 
 on a goalie while manually dekeing then going far side works very well and is almost too easy to 
 pull off in a game) . The soundtrack in the game is made up of mostly emo, hard rock or punk bands 
 popular at the moment. You can turn them off in the menu. The commentary is mostly recycled from 
 last year unlike the 360 version. Its not especially good but its not bad either. Its the same 
 story for sound effects. If you already have 05 or 06, dont have a game pad, dont have an Xbox 
 360 or are'nt the biggest hockey fan then this game is not for you. Maybe next year we'll have 
 something to get excited about. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MindMelt
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 15, 2006 8:02 pm PT
Review:  for those who complained about old rosters, go to easports. com find NHL 07 for PC and go to downloads 
 page, it explained how to do it!!!!
  
  as far as the game i have not played it yet,. i know its gona be same as 06 mostly, but i dont 
 care i paid like 10 dollars for it be cause i has some gift certificated and it was on sale on 
 one day only the day it came out, now i am going to install it and play and c how it is, cant be 
 worse than 06 and i hope the controlls can be reversed to last years i love the big hit button
 
  
  
  have fun playing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yoel
Rating: 1.6
Date: Sep 15, 2006 4:56 pm PT
Review:  This NHL game, if u can call it that, is a total disgrace. EA sports have no respect for its customers 
 by releasing a slightly modified version of NHL 06. Even the shortcut logo is the same , all they 
 did is replace the 6 by a 7. I don't understand why they couldn't just put the same version as 
 the XBOX360. Technically computers with a decent graphics card will always be able to deliver better 
 graphics than any console, since they are always upgradable. Instead of releasing this Cr@%, it 
 would've been better for EA to just not release any game for 07, but of course they will do anything 
 they can to make some money out of us. This is not even worth a dollar. This feels like a patch 
 and last time I checked patches were free to download! Also, the rosters are completely outdated 
 , they are at least 4 months old! Not only is this game feeling and looking the same as 06, they 
 seem to have managed to have screwed up the controls (these are not the same new revolutionary 
 controls that they implemented in the Xbox360 version) . I think that another company should be 
 given the task to do NHL games than EA, better yet EA should never be allowed again to produce 
 any NHL game for the PC, after delivering us this Cr@%! Making computer games use to be an art 
 and developpers always worked hard to make the best game possible, but EA proved to be just thirsty 
 for people's cash. I think we should all let EA know how insulted we are by this Cr@%! I don't 
 understand how EA went from one of the best and most respected companies to the most discraceful 
 one. I could go on and on about how much this game sucks and how EA sucks even more, but since 
 they didn't even bother to deliver a decent game to their longtime customers, I don't know why 
 I should bother to go on and on and waste my time, since I'll feel like I've spent more time writing 
 this than they worked on this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maagi
Rating: 6.8
Date: Sep 15, 2006 2:52 pm PT
Review:  In my career of EA Sports NHL's from 96 to 07, this must have the least updates compared to the 
 previous year. And this isn't just saying what everyone else are saying, I'm serious with this. 
 And here's the list I remembered to put in to text : Menu's are the same, only graphics are changed 
 a bit again, but if you just change the colour of **** it doesn't make it any less **** than it 
 already was, it still is **** And by that I mean the console way of doing things. Changing lines 
 has come waaaaaay back from the times when you could just drag and drop. It was so much easier, 
 and personally I'd still prefer line editing to work like that, instead of rolling down a droplist 
 of names. But, even that would be decent enough, if it would WORK. I can't get the droplist to 
 work properly everytime with mouse, so I have to tap my heart out with keyboard. Make couple of 
 changes, and the arrows to switch viewable lines disappear. What the hell is this? In demo I could 
 let this go by, but not on 3rd edition of the same configuration. For most of the parts, animation 
 is the same as before. As fun as it may be to have flashbacks of your previous year's games when 
 some guy is cheering for his goal, it still doesn't make a good impression. For most parts animation 
 is also reasonably good, so I'd say it still works and I'm not totally pissed about it. But, compared 
 to XboX 360... I'm not even going to say it.
  
  And the goals, oh the goals... goalies slide much much faster now, so one-timers are a bit more 
 difficult, which is nice 'cause one-timer's were the way to score if and when you needed to. BUT. 
 Now, there's equally easy, yet maybe bit more realistic ways of scoring. One is to shoot before 
 the B-point circles. Doesn't make a whole lot of difference whether you take a slapshot or a wristshot, 
 just as long as the shooter has decent accuracy, and there's a good chance the goalie sucks it 
 in, no matter who's in there. Once I was coming to opponents side with Sundin, and I got checked. 
 Sundin being quite a big guy, the checker pretty much just stopped him on his feet, so I decided 
 to take a shot before I get checked over again (Sundin isn't the quickest skater afterall, despite 
 his stats... which is weird, same thing was in 06) . I loaded the slapshot, and released. Second 
 later, the puck hits the top corner on goalie's glove side. Sure, Sundin has a hard and accurate 
 shot, but when other guys with lesser scoring skills take shots like that on somewhat regular basis, 
 somethings amiss here.
  Same goes to CPU's players. No matter who I have tending the goal, they are going to score, especially 
 on the last minute. Having some Finland-Sweden deja vu's already. One thing I've hated in recent 
 years of NHL's, is the fact that you cannot change the keyboard (yes, I play via keyboard, 'cause 
 I don't have a pad and definetely won't buy one just for one game) button's to the one's you'd 
 like, namely like Ctrl, Alt and so on, the old buttons . Instead, you have to wish some guy would 
 do an editor to change'em on your own, again.
  Weird enough, after reading NHL 07's boards, I found out in several thread's that even pad's are 
 having issues, which didn't exist in 06. Is EA Sports downgrading the game for PC players or what?
 
  
  So, basically besides some cosmetic changes and remaining irritating stuff, spiced with some cool-for-5-seconds 
 stuff like bouncing pucks to the audience from the post, it's definetely the NHL 06 v1.5 instead 
 of mostly new game.
  
  I didn't mention the game modes mostly 'cause they're 95% the same they were in 06, in good and 
 bad. Rosters weren't up to date, but EA Sports came up with a roster update quite quick, so it 
 ain't a big thing for me. Still, as someone else mentioned on his/her review, the option for 2 
 line pass still exists, which is becoming a bit weird by now. The game still has scores closer 
 to a volleyball-game than hockey-game, and that's not because either me nor the CPU would be just 
 that good .
  
  One plus I have to mention : it would seem that powerplay actually works now. It was a bit better 
 in 06 than it was before, but now it really works. Defensemen stay around the line, other guys 
 mostly fill the position if you move far enough from your spot, etc. More often than not it's my 
 defenseline who shoots the powerplay goals, not the forwards, which is just fine, 'cause that's 
 one of the things I've been waiting for years. But, on penaltykilling, and defense in general, 
 AI sucks as usual. But on offense it works quite well, if you're not expecting everyone to be a 
 playmaking-mastermind.
  
  Still, if you have NHL 06, I cannot recommend buying this. However, if you haven't tried any NHL 
 games from EA Sports, or didn't try 06, I could recommend trying this one out, unless you have 
 XboX 360 of course, which can offer the next gen playing quality. Until that arrives to PC (if 
 it ever will) , we're stuck with this from EA Sports. Can't say I'm happy about it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cthulhu34
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 15, 2006 11:02 am PT
Review:  NHL 07 really is no different then any other NHL whatever year it is. This particular year they 
 changed the snazzy GUI to be a little crisper then usual. No intros in teh game which i found a 
 little strange. I almost felt like okay here's your game for another year now leave us alone .Gameplay 
 so far is alot of fun, if it's too easy you keep cranking up the difficulty. So far after 4 games 
 I have not had one fight and have the fights set at maximum, perhaps recruiting alot more fighters 
 is what I need to do.
  
  Salary cap was added in GM mode (Dynasty) which doesn't really matter since you need alot of points 
 spent for them to accept trades anyway, doesn't matter what the point system is like and how good 
 your players are that yoiur traded, the computer just won't allow the trade.
  
  Lowering the cost is nice but what this game needs is a canadian on the graphic design team to 
 add things like jerseying a player, perhaps even if the jersey comes off from the tie downs not 
 being on you get tossed just like in rl, would make it exciting. How about throwing in some blood 
 if ther eis a good fight. There's blood in hockey just like in rl so implement it in the game. Hard 
 hitting, fighting, lots of goal scoring and shooting. Sounds like you have a game. Almost is my rating, perhaps 
 EA will charge us for updating the roster ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HurleyJos
Rating: 2.2
Date: Sep 14, 2006 3:10 pm PT
Review:  This game should not even exist at all on PC. It's now a common fact that high end PC have more 
 processing power than a Xbox 360. But for whatever reason, EA deceided that the PC version of NHL 
 07 will be the same than the PS2 and other 4 years old consoles. It's a shame, a slap in the face.
 
  
  There is no major difference between this year version and last year, instead the passing button 
 and some dinasty mode tweak. This game does not worth even a dollar, and really, there is no excuse 
 from EA as why PC user get this pathetic version while Xbox 360 owner get a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shutton
Rating: 2.3
Date: Sep 13, 2006 7:59 pm PT
Review:  If you have NHL 06, This is a waste of money!! Every menu and every option on every menu is almost 
 the same... Franchise mode hasn't changed in three years, besides the addition of a cap!! What the 
 F#%% is this... what a waste. Even the presentation and pregame are the same. Hello? When you market 
 a new piece of software... how about adding some new code! Why are the rosters reflective of 3 
 months ago. The Penguins don't have MALKIN or  The same faces, the 
 same menu, the same graphics, the same dumb franchise mode, the same game. 2004is the best game 
 in the last 7 years. I would rather that EA stopped making the HNL series on the pc. Do it right 
 or don't do it at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kirillka87
Rating: 4.9
Date: Sep 13, 2006 7:41 pm PT
Review:  Its not that the game is bad its just that this games has not changed in the last year. I dont 
 kno y, but i think the main reason is that the ppl at EA dont care about the PC version of the 
 game that much. Some goalies still have pads that they wore 2 years ago example... khabibulin he 
 still has his lighting gear and brizgalov still has blank pads never mind the playoff MVP cam word. 
 I dont understand how does EA expect to get away with such a half ass job. the new controls are 
 simply analog passing and a mix up of the old buttons and the goalies are just as bad but dont 
 make stupied dives instaed they miss clear slapshots. My imagintion of this game was much higher 
 then this, this game is like a slap in the face of fans of the PC NHL franchise. Since the gameplay 
 hasnt changed and the graphics are the same as last year i could only give it a good rating, since 
 last years game was alright. but i take off all the other ratings since im not happy with this 
 game at all. I would buy this game becuase im a hardcore hockey fan but if u have a computer and 
 you wanna play nhl just get nhl 06 alot easier controls and as sure of alot hell cheaper. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yzergod
Rating: 2
Date: Sep 13, 2006 3:15 pm PT
Review:  I just got this game today, and have played about 10-11 games so far. Now on Offline mode, i dont 
 have much to complain on, except the salary cap is messed up and not correct. Online EASO... What 
 a joke. Again, for the 4th year in a row, we get the same exact setup. They even forgot to remove 
 the 2 line pass option, even though that is no longer a NHL rule. They were too lazy to even remove 
 it. Also online, you cannot play any other level but "Medium". I changed from ranked to custom 
 and game difficulty stays greyed out. Then i tried with a friend, the IP to IP. Guess what... It 
 was even greyed out there. Rosters on online play are the worst ive ever seen released from a company 
 that is big like EA. For example... Manny Legace was released from Detroit about 2 months or longer 
 ago... he is the starter in net for Detroit in NHL 07.
  
  2 vs 2 play.... are you kidding.. lol.. I dont know why they removed probably the best feature they 
 had. This needs to be in the game, but EA doesnt care about anything but ripping us off with New 
 patched releases. This year isnt even a patch, its a huge $29.99 downgrade.
  
  Controller - Unreal... they removed a bunch of features from 06, and barely added anything. Then 
 they made default all crazy. I think they do that so you think your getting a "New" Game.
  
  Graphics - This is what normally keeps people playing. But this year, they catered for all 
 the low end pcs. They claim its because of a low market for pc games. Well, heres a idea... Anyone 
 in the year 2006, who games on their pc, should be at least 2.0 gig and above for a processor, 
 and a 256 video card. Then EA can build this game the way it shouldve been built 2 years ago. Seriously, 
 the graphics from 2k4 look better then these, just terrible. I love the game of hockey, but what 
 EA released September 13, 2006, in the USA, is not hockey. Its a blocky looking kids game that 
 got worse. Save your money, all, dont waste it on EA. I love NHL games, but i am kicking myself 
 for wasting money on this junk. Next Gen is supposed to be for NHL 08 for the PC. Maybe they downgraded 
 this game graphically and gameplaywise so 08 will seem better then what it is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cocco
Rating: 4
Date: Sep 13, 2006 12:40 pm PT
Review:  When I started the game all the menus looked familiar too me, and I like familiar. That way you 
 know where to configure certain options.
  
  I started off right away turning the graphics to max and configured the controls. Ready for the 
 game I noticed everything looked just like 06. The players entered the same way, the commentary 
 was the same as before, same warm up "cinematic". The crowd looked like crap as well. Then I thought: 
 "what the hell, it seemed nice on the videos! It has to be good!". The ONLY difference from 06 
 I found was some minor "bugs" that got fixed, like the "goalie-ninja-turtle-spin on the back" and 
 stuff like that. And that you get called for interference while hitting a player not active in 
 the play.
  
  For me, this is a bug fix for NHL 06. I won the first match with 11-1 on difficult, and that's 
 my biggest issue with 06. You can score when you shouldn't be able to!
  
  Thumbs way DOWN EA! Better luck next year, too bad NHL 2k7 isn't released on PC! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hardcastle
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 12, 2006 10:22 pm PT
Review:  Well if u liked 2006 you will LOVE 2007. All the crap that 06 had in it ( one timers, goalies, 
 dynasty mode ) have all been fixed.
  
  no more constant one timers, goalies are flopping on there backs like its disco time and dynasty 
 mode with the salary cap has been implemented.
  
  the pc version isnt like the 360 version so dont get mixed up. the 360 is a brand new game on a 
 brand new engine. 2007 is basically a upgrade version of 2006 which in some peoples mind isnt good. 
 to me its GREAT since the 06 EA hockey was quite a good one ( compared to others )
  
  i highly recommend 2006 for you pc hockey needs! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
