-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: NHL 06
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sports/nhl06/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 The skill stick and left-analog deking are fun additions to the gameplay.
 Defense is much more well balanced in this year's game.
 Great graphics.
 Better-than-average online play.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Dynasty mode continues to be flawed, and it features more bugs than usual.
 Overall, pretty much the same score-crazy brand of hockey you're all too familiar with.
 Still can't play free-4-all against CPU opponents or online.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 23, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.6
Critic Score: 7.7, 16 Review (s)
User Score: 8.2, 688 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Sports
Developer: EA Canada
Genre: Ice Hockey Sim
Date:     Sep 6, 2005 &raquo;  
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It's got all the new rule changes, as well as an almost entirely up-to-date roster, but considering 
 how similar the game is overall to 2005, you have to ask yourself, "Is that really enough?" 
 

  Last year, EA's NHL franchise took something of a misstep with NHL 2005. Despite being a generally 
 good game of hockey, some gameplay problems, a somewhat lacking dynasty mode, and a few other scattered 
 problems cost the series the momentum it had built the previous year with the thoroughly excellent 
 NHL 2004. For this year, and for the triumphant return of the NHL from its ugly player lockout, 
 EA has righted a couple of wrongs, left some other wrongs as they were, and tossed in a couple 
 of new ones. NHL 06 doesn't feel like much in the way of forward progress at all, really, as it 
 simply tweaks things that probably needed bigger overhauls and leaves an awful lot of the package 
 generally untouched. Sure, it's got all the new rule changes, as well as an almost entirely up-to-date 
 roster, but considering how similar the game is overall to 2005's version, you have to ask yourself, 
 "Is that really enough?"  

          NHL 06 plays an awful lot like NHL 2005 -- just with less-insane defense and a couple of 
 minor upgrades.     

  Gameplay-wise, NHL 06 plays a lot like the last few games in the series have by focusing on a faster, 
 more furious brand of play that can't exactly be called realistic but manages to be fun, regardless. 
 The game can be controlled via keyboard and mouse, or with a gamepad, but like previous NHL games, 
 the way you should be playing this is with a gamepad. The keyboard and mouse control just sucks. 
 Mechanically, all the changes made last year are back once again, including two-button shooting 
 and the easy one-step wraparound shot. One thing that isn't back is the overwrought defensive artificial 
 intelligence that made setting up offensive plays a gigantic pain in the neck. The defensemen in 
 NHL 06 actually do things like poke-check and play you up close without necessarily hip checking 
 you to the ice every time you cross the blue line into the offensive zone. Sure, they'll still 
 knock you back, given the opportunity, but thankfully, those opportunities aren't nearly as plentiful 
 in this year's game, giving you more chances to play realistic offense. That isn't to say the balance 
 is perfect, mind you. On the default difficulty, we found it a little too easy to exploit certain 
 one-timers and fancy shots -- though to be fair, that wasn't so much the fault of the defensemen 
 so much as it was the fault of the goalie, who for some reason finds it necessary to drop to the 
 ice sideways at rather bizarre times. But once we bumped the difficulty up to either of the upper 
 two levels, that issue went right away.  

  Beyond less-crazy defensive AI, the developer has put in a couple of new goodies in the form of 
 left-analog deking and right-analog shooting. The left-analog deking is pretty self-explanatory. 
 You simply move the left analog stick back and forth as you're moving up the ice to try to fake 
 out defenders and goaltenders. It takes a little getting used to, as you essentially have to hold 
 the stick forward and press it side to side at the same time. But once you get a handle on it, 
 it works nicely. The right-analog shooting is a feature designed for those special forwards and 
 offensive defensemen who love faking out goaltenders with lots of fancy skate work. Essentially, 
 by pressing a direction on the right stick, the player with the puck will do some kind of 360 spin 
 or crazy between-the-legs fake-out that only a true superstar could pull off without breaking his 
 ass on the ice. And that's the thing of it, really. Only superstar players (who are ever-so-subtly 
 denoted by a big fat star icon whenever they're selected) can really pull these moves off with 
 any effectiveness, and even they need a little bit of breathing room to be successful. So don't 
 expect to be doing any goofy spin moves with a burly defenseman all up in your face.  

  Both the flashy scoring moves and left-analog deking are nice additions to the package, but neither 
 is anything you could exactly call game-changing. Sure, they're fun, but they stick pretty closely 
 to the mantra that seems to be the overlying theme of the whole game: style over substance. Again, 
 it's tough to really call NHL 06 a simulation hockey game, as it plays so fast, and it's too easy 
 to score fairly high numbers of goals once you get a handle on the defensive tendencies. Not to 
 mention that it's still supereasy to do things like, say, control defensemen all the way down into 
 the front of the net, have a shot saved and passed back to an opposing player, and still not suffer 
 defensively -- as some random forward will magically find a way to play defense just as well as the 
 defenseman you stranded in the offensive zone. Additionally, the game totally overuses the "hero 
 lines," which often consist of ridiculous scoring troupes that put forwards in defensive positions... to 
 the point where they're on the ice for a third of the game (unless you pick manual line changes) . 
 Still, the style of the game works to its advantage, too, as it does make for an exciting method 
 of play, and it's not as though you can't play the game strategically at all. There are plenty 
 of opportunities to set up proper one-timers and power plays. It just isn't the most realistic 
 game you'll find on the market currently.  

          The default rosters have some of the big free agency roster changes already in effect, 
 but not all of them.     

  While the game does offer great (if familiar) gameplay, on the features front it's a bit lacking. 
 Mainly, there really isn't any one big, new feature in this year's game. The dynasty mode, for 
 example, feels pretty much like a carbon copy of last year's dynasty, warts and all. You still 
 have to deal with restrictive owner goals set for you at the outset of each season, and said goals 
 still play into the team's perceived business philosophies. Teams like the Devils and the Avalanche 
 want to get deep into the playoffs so they can eventually win the Stanley Cup, whereas stingier 
 clubs like the Blackhawks want the number one overall pick (yet, for some reason, the Hawks don't 
 care who you take with said pick) and a high profit margin. In the non-salary-cap era of hockey, 
 these designations for teams made a little more sense, but since free agency began, some of these 
 stingier clubs have started spending money on real free agents, and conversely, some of the biggest 
 spenders have been picked relatively clean and didn't bother to make up for their losses. Granted, 
 nobody would expect EA to completely scrap its franchise design only a few months before release, 
 but those are the breaks when you don't bother to deviate from what was an overly restrictive design 
 to begin with.  

  Other old problems remain unfixed as well. The game still doesn't notify you when you have new 
 messages via the mode's e-mail system, even if it's something important like an injury or a trade 
 offer. So unless you stop the simulation to go check your e-mail constantly, you'll miss out on 
 important stuff (made all the more infuriating because the game's single season mode actually does 
 interrupt simulations for notices) . There's also still not much of an offseason progression here. 
 No specific callouts of the draft or the beginning of free agency exist beyond single e-mails letting 
 you know what dates on the calendar signify each (the calendar itself displays no hints as such) . 
 And in either event, your participation is minimal. You still don't really have to scout rookies 
 at all (and depending on how much upgrade money you spend on scouts, varying degrees of reliable 
 rookie info will be available at your fingertips on draft day) , and you can still cherry-pick the 
 best free agents on July 1, as no player stops to entertain other offers. Also, there's no salary 
 cap at all in the dynasty mode, and there's not even a hard team budget. So unless your owner has 
 specific concerns about team salaries, you can just go buck wild with player signings.     

 
   

  With that said, all the good features from last year's dynasty are back again, too. The team-upgrades 
 system is intact, letting you gradually improve off-ice coaching and the financial components of 
 your club. Also, the whole chemistry system is back again this year. Players are still divided 
 into categories of scorers, playmakers, and grinders. And just like before, splitting up different 
 types of players among lines nets the biggest boosts. Fortunately, this year the CPU does a better 
 job of distributing your players across different lines should an injury pop up, and you won't 
 see as many marquee players getting relegated to fourth-line status. There is one odd glitch with 
 lines, though: When you first sign a new player to the team and then dress him, sometimes you'll 
 find the CPU went nuts and assigned him to about five different lines at once, sometimes making 
 him the only player on a line. It's a problem that's easy enough to fix, but it's kind of bizarre. 

          Scoring is still fast and frequent in this year's game.     

  Speaking of bizarre issues, there's one big new problem in the dynasty mode that wasn't present 
 last year. Specifically, it relates to the scheduling of games. What happens is that whatever schedule 
 you're given your first year ends up being the exact same game schedule you get  every  year. If 
 you play against the Sharks in your first game and the Blues in your last game, that will be the 
 case every year, as will every other game in between. Not to mention that we found ourselves playing 
 a lot of the same playoff opponents over and over again, at one point playing against Calgary in 
 the finals three years straight. While that's only somewhat of a leap, having the exact same schedule 
 every single year is simply an impossibility, and it's clearly just some kind of glaring oversight. 

  The online play is pretty much in the same boat as the dynasty mode. Before you can get to any 
 of the fancy online menus or lobbies, you have to register with the EA Sports online service (and 
 either pay $2 to EA or let ESPN spam your e-mail account, which is, you know, gross) . Once you 
 get past all that nonsense, it's fundamentally the same online experience as most other EA Sports 
 games on the PC. You can access lobbies, clubs, tournaments, and tracked stats for your profile 
 across all games. All told, it's a pretty by-the-book online mode, but it does at least perform 
 better than last year's game.  

  In terms of other features, NHL 06 runs the usual gamut of international teams, providing a world 
 league tournament, three elite leagues, the free-4-all minigame (which is completely untouched 
 from last year and still can't be played online) , create-a-player and create-a-team options. It's 
 basically the same roster of modes from last year, sadly, and the playable version of NHL 94 that 
 was on the PlayStation 2 version of the game isn't available on PC.  

  The NHL franchise has always included slick presentational values, and NHL 06 is no exception. 
 The graphical models for players have changed somewhat, as they now more accurately depict the 
 size differences between larger defensemen and enforcers, as well as smaller, speedier scorers. 
 The one adverse effect that these changes seem to have had is that all the players, specifically 
 when playing the game (as opposed to cutscenes) , look a little more squat than they used to. It's 
 not that they look bad at all, necessarily, but there's something just a bit off about each player 
 that makes him seem a bit stubbier than in recent years. Up close during cutscenes you don't really 
 notice this as much, so maybe it's a camera perspective thing. Anyway, the on-ice action still 
 looks great. The ice is beautifully reflective and deforms, and the new animations, specifically 
 the new scoring moves, look fantastic. There are some occasional animation hiccups where players 
 will get stuck along the boards or against the net for a few seconds, but apart from that, everything 
 on ice looks pretty seamless. The PC version of the game is actually not an awful lot better-looking 
 than the Xbox game. It's crisper, for sure, but in terms of graphical detail, there isn't much 
 more here than in the top console game.  

          Yeah, it's fun hockey, but it's far from the best out there.     

  The audio experience 
 of NHL 06 is on the same level as 2005. There are great on-ice sound effects, and there's periodically 
 useful, but mostly overwrought and nonengaging, commentary from the same twosome that's handled 
 the commentary for the last few years, Jim Hughson and Craig Simpson. Additionally, more rock-based 
 EA Trax tunes make up the soundtrack, which includes artists like Fall Out Boy, American Head Charge, 
 OK Go, and Pennywise. None of the music exactly stands out, but it's all fine menu-screen fodder. 

  Fans of EA's brand of hockey will undoubtedly take something positive away from NHL 06, but even 
 they will find it hard to deny that the game isn't everything that it could have been. 06 just 
 doesn't do anything significant for the franchise, as it just adds some ancillary features that 
 are neat to have but don't ultimately change the face of the game, leaving some of the most important 
 (and, in some cases, most flawed) aspects of it practically in stasis. It's good hockey, but it's 
 not great hockey. And even though there aren't exactly a lot of choices available for PC-owning 
 hockey fans, you still might want to carefully consider if this year's iteration is really worth 
 the money.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (35 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: fandom888
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 27, 2008 6:19 am PT
Review:  NHL 2005 was a good game, having new features and things to play with. Unfortunately, it seems 
 that finally EA comes up short, having no new ideas to put on the table.
  
  There are, of course, new and updated rosters from the previous season (in fact, there was a lockout 
 in 2005) , and the new rules with whom NHL hockey is now played. But apart from these typical cases 
 of updates, the game is unable to offer something new. Except from one or two things, which are 
 not added, but fixed from the previous release. The skill stick for example, is a bit improved, 
 however in this case it is obviously not fixed enough. But the problem is that you still score 
 big, you will find matches which end with ten or eleven goals.
  
  Furthermore, in 06 the EA crew has taken care of the great lack of balance between offensive and 
 defensive play. And this balance is kept by the time the skill stick is only used for passing and 
 not scoring. However, some problems remain loyaly in the series. The worst of them is the dynasty 
 mode issue: it is teeming with bugs, now even more than before. It is not deep-substanced enough, 
 consequently offering a short and shallow experience to the players.
  
  A minor enhancement is also done to the online play, which seems more than enough this year, offering 
 good multiplayer matchups. Another improvement is done to the visuals. They seems better than ever 
 before, fortunately not asking for high numbers as the previous NHL games did.
  
  NHL 06 makes clear that the NHL series is under construction from the beginning. Let's hope that 
 in two or three years the experience of playing hockey will be one of the best on earth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dork_assailent
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 5:44 pm PT
Review:  I spent a lot of time on this game, and for good reason. When the game was still new, I think that 
 NHL 06 probably ousted its competition because of the sheer funt hat I had playing it. People keep 
 criticizing the series before NHL 07 was for being too arcady, but in my mind, the 2K series are 
 the more arcady games. Now, although this maybe true for NHL 06 for the most part, it doesn't mean 
 that I didn't have fun playing it. Hey guys, games are supposed to be games, they dont always have 
 to be realistic sims of the real life thing to be fun. And I think that's the main thing that people 
 are missing. I had tons of fun playing this game, and it will be remembered as one of my classics. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cowboydb59
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 2, 2007 6:36 pm PT
Review:  I've been wanting to buy a hockey game for years after playing a lot of NHL Hits on someone else's 
 Xbox. This game plays very much like NHL Hits, which kind of warned me right off that this was 
 no hockey simulation. Which I think is a good thing.
  
  Gameplay: Skate around, hit people with four different intensity levels, and listen to Captain 
 Kirk-style commentary ( The -Stars... have lost -this... game. ) . The AI almost never hits you 
 back without some healthy slider adjusting in the Options menu, so you can slide around and spin-move 
 with impunity. Aiming shots can take too much time when you're near the goal, so most of the time 
 I set it to Auto... but you have to set it before each game, which kinda stinks. There are some 
 wicked bugs, not to mention the craziest one I've found that Alex didn't mention in the official 
 Gamespot review (which deserves its own paragraph) :
  
  If you use a gamepad (like you should) , the bad news is you can't pull your goalie from the pause 
 menu after pressing esc on your keyboard. However, the good news is that if you're down, clicking 
 pull goalie in this manner will still help your team in a big way. Yeah, you can already guess 
 what happens. The game assumes that the AI team is using the keyboard, so using their escape button 
 to access the menu allows you to pull *their* goalie. Whenever you get frustrated or just feel 
 mischevious, score some quick goals with EA's new Beat The Crud Out Of The System Playmaker Control 
 (tm) .
  
  Graphics: Decent. I've got them at the highest settings and they don't look all that great, but 
 you won't notice it very much during the game.
  
  Sound: Except for Kirk's commentary, the sound is okay. Some of the songs on the menu soundtrack 
 are pretty killer, like the OK Go one, whatever it's called.
  
  Value: High if you buy it in the EA '06 combo pack.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: I didn't want a hardcore 
 hockey sim. I wanted some fierce hits, last second goals, and mad spin moves. And that's what I 
 got. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ritzcracka
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 16, 2006 7:49 pm PT
Review:  For several years now, EA has been providing PC users with the only hockey game on the market. 
 Unfortunately, since there's no competition, there's very little incentive for them to make many 
 changes or improvements. Almost every bit of the game makes you think wow they could have done 
 this a lot better. 
  
  GAMEPLAY: NHL 06 plays a lot like NHL 05, only with less hitting. If you've played 05, you'll know 
 what to expect. There are a few modes (Exhibition, Season, Dynasty, Tournament and Free for All) . 
 You'll notice the conspicuous absense of any playoff mode. They took it out a couple of years back 
 for some dubious reason, meaning that you'll have to play through at least a shortened season before 
 you can play in the playoffs, and you can't pick your own matchups. Since that was one of my favorite 
 features, i was very annoyed when they took it out, and i'm STILL annoyed that they haven't put 
 it back in.
  
  Dynasty has very little depth, and they didn't even bother adding in the salary cap (for all their 
 advertising about how it includes all the new rules...) .
  
  As for the actual action, it's NHL 05 with a new skill stick feature (which isn't all that interesting) 
 and some special moves with rarely work. You can also move the hockey stick left and right with 
 your left analog stick to stickhandle. That's kind of a nice feature, but it's nothing earth-shattering.
 
  
  The AI is still horrible, but as I said before - don't hold your breath for this to change since 
 there's no competition on the PC. EA Sports' idea of AI is to boost the computer's stats when they 
 need a goal so that they become unhittable, much faster than your players, and nearly impossible 
 to take the puck from. As for difficulty, none of the settings work for me. It's either way too 
 easy (10-1 wins on medium?) , or way too frustrating because the computer gets an unfair advantage 
 instead of better AI.
  
  Free for All mode is very underdone. I wish they had spent time adding a playoff mode or improving 
 the actual games instead of wasting our time with a weak party mode. There are two games to free 
 for all. One involves you trying to score a set number of goals on a random goalie (no, you don't 
 even get to pick who) and optionally up to two random defencemen (no you don't get to pick them 
 either) , and the other involves you - wait for it - trying to score as many goals as you can on 
 a random goalie with up to two optional random defencemen. If they sound identical it's because 
 they pretty much ARE. At least you can play with players that have jumbo size heads, because that's 
 really interesting. Yes, I long to play against large-headed Martin Brodeur.
  
  Oh, I should mention multiplayer. It's still horribly laggy and mostly broken. You can get somewhat 
 smooth gameplay if you use Hamachi and simulate a LAN game over the internet, but any internet 
 play that I tried using the game's built-in game browser either didn't work (most of the time) 
 or was too laggy to be playable.
  
  GRAPHICS: They are identical to NHL 05, which were very close to being identical to NHL 04 and 
 so on and so forth. The graphics would have been impressive in 2002, but in 2006 they are pretty 
 average. At least that means that it runs smoothly on low end systems.
  
  SOUND: Once again, it's recycled from NHL 05. The sound is ok. The commentary is exactly the same 
 as it's always been (not bad but not good) . One nice feature (that isn't unique to NHL 06) that 
 they added a couple of years ago are the goal horns for each building - but you can definitely 
 tell that they aren't actual horns recorded from each building. The crowd noise is ok, but it should 
 be louder and they should be more reactive to the play.
  
  CONTROLS: It plays decently with a dual-analog-stick gamepad. The controls are not very customizable 
 (yet another area where they couldn't be bothering implementing something) . I wouldn't play it 
 with anything else, to be honest. THe menus are a mess, as they've been for years. You can control 
 SOME of them with a mouse, but most of the time you'll need to use the gamepad. It's bad design 
 and lazyness year after year. Working on your lines is irritating beacuse of the console-ness of 
 the interface and there's an annoying feature where the game automatically changes your lines to 
 what it thinks are the best combinations whenever you acquire a player via trade or free agency.
 
  
  STABILITY: One thing that should be mentioned is that this game occasionally crashes to desktop 
 with no error message. Also, it does not run properly on dual-core computers in some situations 
 unless you launch it with Winlauncher and force it to run on one core (or change the affinity of 
 nhl06. exe to run on CPU 0 after you launch the game) .
  
  OVERALL: It's not a very good game. Unfortunately, it's all we PC gamers have as a hockey game, 
 so I keep playing it. And most of the time I either stop playing out of frustration because the 
 computer cheated to beat me on difficult, or I get bored because I'm smoking the CPU on medium. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CarCrazy709
Rating: 5.9
Date: Aug 14, 2006 10:06 am PT
Review:  This game is, simply said, broken.
  
  -Same old cutscenes used, didn't provide depth or NHL realism
  -Don't get me started on the goalies, 
 online mode is a laggy festival of one-timers and cheap gift goals.
  -When switching goalies, there is no cutscene to show it. I believe NHL 2003 had the best goalie 
 switching cutscene, it actually showed the backup coming off the bench and his name was displayed. 
 Incredibly, for some reason online shows goalie switching cutscenes 
  -No cutscene when calling a timeout, 2005 and 2004 showed the coaches talking to the players.
 
  -Very dull and unenthusiastic commentary from Hughson, unrealistic towards real NHL commentary 
 and gets more boring each year as his lines are the same old lines he's been saying for years. 
 Craig Simpson is a bit more than a whisper in the breeze, you hardly hear him say anything interesting.
 
  -Crowds very unrealistic, sometimes in the middle of action the arena just goes dead silent for 
 no reason whatsoever. Crowds barely make any noise or even stand up when the home team scores. 
 I know next-gen has this fixed.
  -Too easy to score cheap goals whether it be one-timers in the slot or crossovers, the skill stick 
 made it even easier. AI scores the cheapest and luckiest goals that a player would never have the 
 luck to do... or stop for that matter.
  -Unrealistic player and goalie attributes in many parts, Finns are the most talented and fastest 
 players around but you wouldn't see it in this game.
  -During the second or third period, replays from goals, hits, and penalties would start disappearing. 
 The useless patches did nothing to fix gameplay and bugs.
  -I thought 06 would bring out the "new rules of the NHL" yet the AI hooks like there is no tomorrow 
 and never gets penalized. On AI powerplays, they will constantly hook you enough to get frustrated 
 and turn off the game once and for all.
  -AI NEVER, EVER makes a big hit. What's up with that? 2005 was terrible due to the constant hitting 
 but there is absolutely no hitting in 06 unless I do it, and even then the hits are unrealistic. 
 Sometimes in violent collisions in the NHL, both players hit the ice but in this game, the hitter 
 is always a god.
  -The game engine is scripted to give AI the advantage throughout the game. I was leading San Jose 
 2-0 with 2 minutes left in the 3rd and I thought it was the most realistic game I had played in 
 '06. In the last minute, Joe Thornton magically scored 3 goals in a row. I tied it with Teemu Selanne 
 and took it in overtime but that's beside the point. The engine heavily favours the AI and there 
 is no realism or fun in scripted plays. The puck magically bounces to the AI's stick, my goalie 
 magically turns into a minor leaguer, and it is impossible to hit, poke, or move the opponents 
 while they are in the "magic goal zone".
  -It's impossible to dump the puck over the boards in your own zone. I would also like to see a 
 penalty from this in 07.
  -Speaking of penalties, the AI always gets away with everything. Once I was so frustrated that 
 I slashed and injured every player on the AI team and restarted the game 
  -Online favours luck, not skill. And there's lag. Lots of it.
  -No practice modes to try some 
 drills, strategies, and lines in season or career modes. The free-for-all is a joke for PC and 
 I never play it.
  -When you score a goal, it doesn't show how many you have in a season or career. I mean come on!
 
  -The goal songs and arena ditties were so horrible and unrealistic that I used a stream editor 
 to remove all of them and put in my own ditties and goal celebration songs and increased the entertainment 
 and replayability value of the game. Not to mention the realism. That being said, if anyone wants 
 realistic ditties, I can send that 400MB streams. dat 
  -The goal horns... oh gosh. I found some realistic goal horns for all the teams but the goal horns 
 weren't even available through the stream editor. Basically there are no goal horns in the streams. dat, 
 they're stored somewhere else and I couldn't get my hands on them. They're unrealistic. The Phoenix 
 goal horn sounds like an 1830's cannon firing off 3 shots. It's supposed to be a howling Coyote, 
 garrhhh!!!
  -EA's lack of support for their NHL games is appalling. 3 useless patches. And not to mention the 
 playoff rosters still have players that retired before the season began! GARHH!!!
  
  It has some nice improvements such as goalies having cyberfaces that actually look realistic and 
 dekes sometimes fooling AI nicely. Apart from little quirks, this game is a disaster. Incredibly 
 I still play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: artemvas
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 22, 2006 9:25 am PT
Review:  In NHL 06 the puck bounces like in real life the goalie moves like in real life
  The only problem with this game is nothing. The dekes are superb espescailly the new skill stick. 
 The celebrations are real the graphics make it seem like you are watching T. V. It even shows the 
 sticks each player uses . It shows the Helmet the player uses, it shows how the player tucks in 
 his shirt, it shows what skates he wears, and it shows what brand and type of goalie pads the each 
 goalie wears. The create a player goes into details like what stick do you want, what helmet do 
 you want, what goalie pads do you want, you can even change his visor color if you want to, you 
 make super stars like Jagr or Thorton in to terrible players by toggling with their stats like 
 if their skating is 95 out of one hundred you can make it 50 out of one hundred, what ever you 
 want to do you can do , even become genral mananger. You can change each players type of pads type 
 of stick you can change each type of gear on each player. if you you haven't played NHL 06 then 
 play it. And you will not regret the time you wasted playing it. No offense NHL 2k6 gamers but 
 NHL 2K6  Thanks for reading this reveiw hope you liked it! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: David_Poulin
Rating: 6
Date: May 17, 2006 11:15 pm PT
Review:  Electronic Arts has had the monopoly for most sports game when it comes to the PC platform and 
 boy, is it starting to show that competition is a good thing. This year's game shows little improvement 
 over NHL 2005 and seems to retain the same bugs, letdowns and blatant ignorance of hockey as a 
 sport. We can only hope that this means EA is hard at work on a next-gen engine for this series 
 for next year.
  
  The graphics, sound and dynasty mode are carbon copies from last year and have all the same problems. 
 Dynasty mode lacks features and complexity as well as the new rules of the NHL like the salary 
 cap. The graphics are the same which isn't terrible but EA needs to start using higher polycounts 
 and add much more detail to the arenas that all look the same.
  
  On the gameplay front, the game plays a little bit different from last year's hit-oriented hockey; 
 you no longer get your body inprinted into the boards as soon as you get within three feet of a 
 defenseman. However, the problem is that the opponent AI will hook you if you spend too much time 
 with the puck and will get away without a penalty. That wouldn't been so bad if it wasn't for the 
 fact that you can't do the same thing. Trying to get the puck from the other team is the hardest 
 part of NHL 06 as you can hook, slash and hit them with the biggest guys on your team, they hang 
 on to that puck like grim death.
  
  Once you do get the puck back however, it's very easy to do what you want with it. Although the 
 game will do anything (including cheating) to stop you from having breakeaways, it is incredibly 
 easy to just waltz into the enemy zone with the puck and get scoring chances. Unfortunately, the 
 enemy goaltenders seem to be able to stop just about everything. It doesn't matter if his overall 
 rating is 50, the opposing goaltender will stop almost all attempts at one-timers, dekes and wrap-arounds 
 that no human goalie could hope to save. This wouldn't be all that bad if yours could do the same. 
 This is a recurring theme in this game: it seems that EA has done everything to give the opposition 
 advantage in each "coin-toss" in the game. This is most likely done because the AI is so inadequate 
 that doing otherwise would render the game a cakewalk for anyone who's ever seen a hockey game.
 
  
  When you get down to it, the core of the gameplay has all the same problems that the NHL series 
 has had forever: unrealistic situations, glitches that enable you to score whenever you want and 
 the problem that players don't seem to be aware of the puck most of the time.
  
  Maybe I'm hard on this game because I'm such a hockey nut but this title truly does not deserve 
 to be the only option for PC gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sabre3000
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 13, 2006 3:36 pm PT
Review:  NHL 06 is a great hockey game... if you didnt play 2005 last year. NHL 06 has way too much in common 
 with NHL 2005 for its own good.
  
  Gameplay- Strikingly similiar to last years 2005. The only major change is that instead of deking 
 options we get stuck with some lame figure- skating like moves. 8/10
  
  Graphics- ahh... the cream of the crop... the best part of NHL 06 has to be its graphics... the player 
 models are extremely detailed and the crowds are (almost) fully 3-d for the first time. 10/10
 
  
  Sound- Like most EA games, NHL 06 has a good soundrack stocked with licensed tracks. Though not 
 alot of them (11) the songs on this game are great.
  
  Value- This is the best hockey game you can get for thirty bucks, hands down... if you like hockey 
 you should own this game, you wont regret it... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evilresident666
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 16, 2006 10:03 am PT
Review:  
  love NHL 05... i mean 06. so little has changed since last year that i thought i was playing 05 
 alot of the time, which to me is not a bad thing. Though its gameplay is not as good as 2k6s is, 
 it is still enjoyable. The dynasty mode is what hooks me each and every Damn year. I have easily 
 put 100+ hrs into each of EAs nhl games because of it. The mode is honestly the deepest in any 
 sports title to date. It is also one of the hardest. You at times will be locked in a scoreless 
 tie 4 minutes into OT and give up the puck leading to the computers victory, which gets extremely 
 frusturating. The game really doesn't evolve the series any. It actually devolves it with the ridiculus 
 figure skater like moves (used with the right anolog stick instead of deking options) which suck. 
 If you like hockey and you liked NHL 05 you will like 06. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: habinator
Rating: 6.6
Date: Apr 19, 2006 7:04 am PT
Review:  All Flash No Substance Story of EA Sports' Hockey Titles Year after Year. While this game is an 
 improvment from previous versions NHL 2k series still takes the cake why? Because they make their 
 games according to the gamers needs and wants in a real sim hockey game. IN Depth Franchise Mode, 
 Tons of Options and of course GAMEPLAY!. If we could combine EA's flash (graphics and sound (except 
 their terrible goal horns) ) with 2k's Gameplay and everything else we would have ourselves one 
 hell of a game. Lets hope 2k improves their graphics when they release their games on the next 
 gen consoles and hopefully EA will improve their gameplay, maybe steal a page from 2k's books.
 
  
  Hahahahah as a side note please dont listen to evilresident666's review of this game. While it 
 is true that not much has changed since NHL 05 it is NOT true that EA has the deepest dynasty mode 
 to date. He has obviously not played the NHL 2k Series which is by far the deepest franchise/dynasty 
 mode to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Peter
Rating: 7.1
Date: Apr 13, 2006 8:53 am PT
Review:  After playing 2005 and then going to this. I wanted to play 2005 again. This game was weaker then 
 05..... by a fairly large margin. Ok the graphics and the modes are as good as 2005 if not better 
 but the gameplay... was not as fun watsoever ... I meen the hitting just wasnt there. It was nearly 
 impossible to turn it takes about 10 games to learn how to actually turn properly... to get the 
 hang of it and theres always one move that you cant stop when your playign against someone. You 
 cant hit them its ridiculous and unfair for others that are not used to it. But I meen theres still 
 that Nhl game fun to it and I wont pass any oppurtunity to play it but This game definately could 
 of and should of been alot better then it ended up being. I'm just gonna stick with 05 and hope 
 07 will be better then 06 was. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scuffdog_65
Rating: 7.6
Date: Apr 9, 2006 2:22 pm PT
Review:  NHL 06 for PC is just another average hockey game. The graphics are pretty good but there are a 
 few glitches in it. Its not too bad though. Gameplay is pretty good but it gets boring after so 
 many games. There is an all new skill stick that is good and easy to control. Only the stars of 
 the team can perform the skill shots though. So dont be using Jason Wooley or any other horrible 
 player with the skill stick. The create a player is fairly good with a lot of depth in creating 
 your skater. Online play isnt very smooth though. NHL 06 is just another average hockey game (i 
 wish they could come up with a great hockey game sometime soon.) but it is better than most i've 
 played. If you cant find any other good way to spend $30.00, go ahead and pick this one up. Its 
 not too bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: easteast
Rating: 9.9
Date: Mar 31, 2006 3:03 pm PT
Review:  Hockey is my favorite sport of all time. I was originally going to buy this game for the PS2, but 
 when I went to EB Games, they didn't have the PS2 version in stock. Afterwards, when I didn't find 
 the PS2 version in Target, I settled for the PC game. I am sooo glad that I got it for the PC! 
 It is such an addictive game! I have put off so much work that it could even get me in some serious 
 trouble one day! That is how addictive it is. I love this game's options. There are... let's see...9 
 game modes! Those will keep you occupied for a long, long time. This is my favorite sports game 
 that I have ever owned! This game will completely own your life! I love the hitting in the game. 
 It is mostly responsive, but not completely. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: disamilic
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 28, 2006 8:47 am PT
Review:  As I sad previously, if You are looking for superb arcade ice hockey game - then stop searching! 
 This is the great one.
  Therefore, whole concept is based on arcade rules:
  Accent is on goal scoring (my average result is 12:7 on 82 games season basis with 10 minutes period 
 and on medium level of difficulty) , fighting, great graphics and sound effects.
  Other game-play options (finances, team training, team upgrades, transfers...) are just "corset 
 laced" and totally unrealistic further building arcade look of NHL 06.
  On the other way, if someone prefer ice hockey simulation with great reality -then he should skip 
 NHL 06.
  "Why am I playing?"
  Does anybody now for other ice hockey game (prefferably simulation) for PC instead of NHL series?
 
  Just tell me and I`ll quit playing NHL immediately.
  Thanks in advance :-) ) ) ) )
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: apatone
Rating: 3
Date: Nov 2, 2006 9:03 am PT
Review:  Some of the worst gameplay i have ever seen. Huge disappointment. I keep hoping that my players 
 would act like real players, but i keep fooling myself. I've seen some bad AI in some games, but 
 your teammates are so bad it shouldn't be called NHL. They don't act even closely to what real 
 hockey players do, it makes me seriously question if the makers of this game have ever laced up 
 a pair. Once you figure out how to score, with the unbelievable effects that stickhandling has, 
 it is literally impossible to lose a game. The goalies are a joke, flopping all over the place 
 and unlike what gamespot said, they stack the pads more than anyone has ever seen since before 
 the butterfly was invented, at all difficulty levels not just the easier ones. The dynasty mode 
 is so basic it's a joke. There is so much potential to have a deep thorough dynasty mode but it 
 just seems like the makers of this game didn't want to put in the time and money on what seems 
 to be a game that no hockey mind can play solo. I don't want to repeat what gamespot already mentioned 
 in their review, but the same schedule every year?? Gimme a break. This game doesn't come close 
 to replicating an NHL experience. They should just put Hockey 06 as it's name not NHL. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wolflegresley
Rating: 7.2
Date: Feb 20, 2006 4:58 am PT
Review:  This game as far as hockey is concenred is the best release to date, The amazing grafics and dynasty 
 mode options you'll find yourself saying "just 1 more upgrade"and it is addicting. However by the 
 time you find yourself playing on the difficult setting yo'll relaise that all you need to do is 
 go around the back of the net or set up a one timer and youy'll score. Ending games with scores 
 of 14-2. However the keyboard and mouse are sub-standered controls, it is recommended that unless 
 you are willing to spend the time to play with the frustrating keyboard (As I have) that you buy 
 a gamepad... the game lists several that it will allow you to use. All and all.. if your looking 
 for a hockey game.. it gets no better then this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kirillka87
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 26, 2006 8:39 pm PT
Review:  Why cant EA make a good hockey Sim. thier soccer and baseball games are great but hockey is still 
 back there not quit developed with the times. i mean the first time i played an ea nhl game was 
 98 and it was amazing i must of played atleast 500 games in nhl 98. but as years come and go some 
 of thier games turn out good nhl 02 04 both great but all miss that little somthing that would 
 make em prefect and realistic. actully that is the problem they cant make the game be alot like 
 the nhl itself. after this years development in gameplay hopefully they can achive a better goalies 
 niext year. if they get the right to all the hockey equipment that would be nice sinces its no 
 fun playing againts goalies in white pads. good luck EA u need it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SWEToryu
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 24, 2006 5:28 am PT
Review:  Great gameplay could be some improv like passing and shooting..
  The swedish commentry was fun to hear, always the same word
  and getting tierd of the after awhile 
 and change it to english for the rest of the season but i'am sure EA will make more and better 
 with the commentry to diffrent countrys. And also the gameplay as well will be better. But sometimes 
 i wish that EA could do more with the dynaste mode and put in some more players like 2 players 
 or more that had been fun right?? It would be more playing hours but whatever but more fun and 
 to see how the friend make it through a season and wich player will he or she go for it the next 
 season, that is something i miss in NHL 06 sadley but we can always hope it will be in NHL 07 instead 
 that would be great.. Or shall we keep dreaming of that!!
  It shall be intreseting to see what happens with the NHL 07 and lets hope the one will be the best 
 ever in hockey.....
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 360motina
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 21, 2006 11:58 am PT
Review:  The first thing that should have been fixed in a patch in the menus. They are broken, and suprisingly 
 after two pathes, they are still not fixed.
  
  The total let down in this game is the stick and decking abilities. First, I do not like adding 
 more bottons to a game that already has a flawless setup ) totally custamizable) . You only come 
 with a certain set of fingers, and the game is still playable and enjoble with thoses actions. 
 Now this is the reason why I am complaining. When you have an AI forth liner guy lie Domi (okay 
 he is not forth line, but he belongs there) use a deck and score you, it is really annoying. I 
 would prefer his annoyingly real goals where he bashes the puck and it goes flying randomly, and 
 somtimes (rarely) luckily scoring.
  
  Difficulties. Easy is too easy, and Medium, while more even, the AI can score easily against the 
 flawed goalies.
  
  Defense has improved, but the your own AI still don't act intelligently. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cthulhu34
Rating: 2
Date: Aug 24, 2006 8:43 pm PT
Review:  First off I love sports games as well as hockey but every single year this game comes out the only 
 difference is perhaps a little better graphics and the updated rosters. I have played a good majority 
 of EA Sports games and why is it they put ALOT of work into a game like MVP 2005 Baseball, you work 
 the minors as well of play them if you wish. Your bats can break when you hit a good pitch. You can 
 charge the mound and start a fight. Get suspended. It even has a little card beside "Americas top 
 100 Prospects". Add broken sticks to hockey when your playing, ad line brawls from dirty hits, add 
 injuries that are realistic. Change the schedule around once and awhile. Add some cool features like 
 in Madden 06 where you can create a superstar and play them. WHY can't you do that in hockey?
  
  the bottom line is this game is downright boring. Signing a contract regardless of the amount 
 of money for players, has no bearing on the game whatsoever. EA wouldn't even spend the time ti input 
 a patch for the salary cap. Yet if they made a new kind of Soccer ball i am sure in FIFA Soccer 
 that would be implimented the same day.
  
  How about get some Canadians to help EA with the game since apparently hockey to them is like Bowling 
 to everyone else. We know it exists but no idea after that. Possibly even have a poll and ask the 
 people who are BUYING the game every single year, what they would like implimented to THEIR game?
 
  
  "hockey is our game, and it will always be ours"
  Team Canada :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RacerX666
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jan 7, 2006 2:58 am PT
Review:  i recently borrowed nhl 06 from my friend to play for a while. its the most recent version of ea 
 sports nhl series since nhl 2001. i have nhl 2000 as well, and felt that both of those games, however 
 good they are, dont do a good job of realisticly representing the nhl. the first thing i did was 
 (of course) create a player in my image. unfortunetly, the format for changing facial features 
 took me 10 minutes to figure out. there are no instructions on how to change them (and there should 
 be in this horriffic example of player customization. finally, after struggling through changing 
 the face, i made it to the skills where i discovered that my rookie forward can immediately be 
 the best player in history with all 99/99 stats. i made my player 5'10, 201 lbs like i always do. 
 i decided to make a goalie later, and started a new season. i immediately played a game, and discovered 
 my player wasnt a toned athlete, but instead looked like he was about 5'6 and 260 lbs!! he was 
 essentially obese skating across the ice! then the rangers changed lines and eric lindros came 
 on. he looked as though he would hip check a god dam FREIGHT TRAIN onto the DL. as he skated down 
 the ice with the puck, my defenceman (nicklas lidstrom) turned out to be surprisingly anorexic. 
 i skated at lindros from the side, pressed z for the body check, and instead of knocking lindros 
 off the puck, lidstrom got injured. i also noticed that the speed boost automaticly causes you 
 to lose the puck if you hold it for more than 3 seconds. it also turns out that there is a yellow 
 bar at the bottom that shows your "boost bar". it appears that you can only use a limited amount 
 of boost per period. after playing through a period and a half of these obese maniacs, i got my 
 first penalty. i was very impressed by the penalty animations, as i could actually see peter forsberg 
 stick up his elbow to take out his opponent. i then got my first big breakaway, and found that 
 the deking has been greatly improved, as the deke actually duped the goalie and i scored an amazing 
 goal! unfortunetly, even though i scored a highlight reel goal, the gameplay is just terrible. 
 the players are extremely slow and unresponsive. imagine a 2 on 1 with peter forsberg and dany 
 heatly, and forsberg passes across the slot to heatly. heatly winds up and you prepare to bathe 
 in the light of glory once again, when dany heatly passes the puck directly backwards to your defenceman, 
 who immediately loses the puck and their forward goes in and scores on you. that has happened to 
 me so many times, that its not even funny. the goaltending ai (with the exception of deking) is 
 sickeningly done. my 99/99 goalie stands in the crease waiting for a shot, and the austrian 4th-line 
 right winger takes a quick backhand from just outside the blue line with no traffic in front, and 
 my goalie sprawls all over the ice and lets it in. by the end of my game, team austria has defeated 
 me 10-8 because of my goalie automaticly being pulled and his awful antics in the crease. the graphics, 
 along with the laughable crowd, have barely improved since 2000 when nhl 2001 came out! not only 
 that, but the music in the game is excessively limited, and whats there is terrible. there were 
 6 bands i had never heard of before! the use of the mouse in any menu is almost impossible, and 
 using the arrow keys is essentially essential. i dicovered that i cant seem to change the direction 
 that the camera looks in the game. a huge disadvantage is that the difficulty barely changes from 
 easy to difficult, as they have dropped the "rookie, pro, all-star" system. after playing for about 
 an hour (35 minutes of which were making players/teams) i gave up and decided to do something less 
 painful than playing this game, like stare directly at the sun or toast my nuts.
  
  in conclusion, this game sucks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CTOCTOCTO
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 30, 2005 9:35 am PT
Review:  I REMEMBER THE GLORY DAYS of EA's NHL series. Not coincidentally, they were the most recent glory 
 days of the NHL itself, back in the early 90's when the New York Rangers were making their run 
 at the Stanley Cup, before expansion teams started popping up in Columbus and Nashville and the 
 league eventually imploded in a year-long strike. Back then, it seemed we were all playing along 
 on our Sega Genesis or SNES, racing up and down the ice, deking goalies and setting up perfect 
 one-timers. For a few years after that, we were blessed with some nice translations to the PC, 
 and, with high-res graphics and our Microsoft Sidewinder gamepads, all was good.
  
  The first problem with NHL 06 is the basic gameplay: in some ways, it feels more like basketball 
 than hockey. Perhaps taking too much of a cue from this year's NHL rule changes designed to speed 
 up the game, you race up and down the ice, trading possessions like the old Showtime days of Lakers 
 vs. Celtics: you skate towards the opposing team's goal, take your best shot, and the other team 
 grabs the rebound and dashes off the other way. There's even the "skill stick," which allows players 
 to make crazy moves or crushing hits with the right analog stick. The only thing missing a 24-second 
 clock. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: billschamp11
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 25, 2005 3:32 pm PT
Review:  NHL 06 stinks! it dosen't even work on my freaking computer. i got it for xmas and checked requriments 
 and i checked them all and it still dosent freaking work im disappointed in NHL, NFL works perfect. 
 NHL keeps going down hill. It looks fun but its messed  
 im ver dissapppointed, this happened to me last year too. I hate EA NHL 06 and  
 thanks
  
  this game was a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a aa a a a a a a a a a a a avery big disappointment 
::::::

::::::
UserName: glassesgeek
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 26, 2005 9:58 pm PT
Review:  The NHL has been heading down a bit of a bumpy road for the past few years with a lockout fiasco 
 and a slew of new changes to the rules of the game. Theyre not alone on this road, however; the 
 NHL series by EA Sports has been on its own bumpy road as each year's game is as unpredictable 
 as Wayne Gretzkys moves. NHL 06, EA Sports latest addition to the series, is definitely an improvement 
 to the series and hockey games in general. However, it seems as though the EA Sports team was meddling 
 in the penalty box during the lockout, considering the minimal changes to the game. Thankfully, 
 NHL 05 was an excellent game and improving upon it, while even in small amounts, made the latest 
 in the series that much better.
  
  Rather than comparing NHL 06 to its relatively identical predecessor, its more important to look 
 at what makes NHL 06 a great game on its own. For those who are familiar with the series, the differences 
 will be obvious. For those who havent touched an NHL game in years, perhaps the following will 
 open your soon to be sweaty palms to what is easily the best game in the series.
  
  The main focus of any NHL game by EA Sports is to deliver fast-paced action with a stylistic feel 
 molded on top. The new rules in the NHL certainly help promote this ideal with the removal of the 
 2-line-pass and a decrease in goalie pad size. To help enhance the showy gameplay even more, NHL 
 06 features a skill stick (or for PC users without a controller, an imaginary stick that hovers 
 above your arrow keys) , which is designed to make signature highlight reel goals as easy as moving 
 your thumb. Wayne Gretzky most likely agrees that a slight movement of ones thumb is all it takes 
 to spin around with a puck and then ram it down a goalies throat. The ease of performing these 
 dramatic motions is what makes the gameplay more enjoyable as you try and fake out goalies with 
 between-the-legs dekes and skate juggling shots. However, these moves, when executed in the right 
 position, can easily defeat any goalie. Once youve mastered the skill stick, youve practically 
 mastered the game. Showy and exciting, yes. Balanced and challenging, no.
  
  Theres more than one way to skillfully handle the puck; the new Realistic Puck Momentum (or R. P. M. 
 if you care to chuckle) physics implemented in NHL 06 makes the puck quite dangerous. Taking a 
 slap-shot with one of your teammates in front of the net is no longer a wise choice of action. 
 The punishment for a 112 mph slap-shot to the knee is a good 5 weeks of medical therapy. Goalies 
 are vulnerable to the reality of puck momentum as well and can also be sent to the ice from a slap-shot 
 to the face. The puck itself moves quite realistically in NHL 06 and contends well against other 
 NHL titles. Unlike other games, if the puck is moving faster than you are on a breakaway, it will 
 glide ahead of you and could ruin your chances at a shot. This simple implementation brings a world 
 of realism to the game that other games surprisingly lack.
  
  Adding to NHL 06s realism theme is the long awaited incorporation of a players size to speed 
 ratio. No longer can Eric Lindros powerhouse of a body dance about the ice without being touched 
 by a defender. Although the idea of making the bigger guys slower and the lighter guys faster is 
 both simple and much needed, EA Sports missed their mark when trying to accomplish this idea. When 
 Mats Sundin, a rather large and powerful forward for the Toronto Maple Leafs, for example, gets 
 fatigued, the man looks as though hes swimming on the ice trying desperately to even move. These 
 are professional hockey players. None of them are like John Madden swimming on skates while trying 
 to get to a donut. All of the newly instated realism is highly entertaining but also quite irritating 
 at the same time.
  
  The most irritating feature of any EA Sports game, however, is its AI. NHL 06s AI is founded on 
 predetermined offensive strategies that the computer players do their best to follow. Sometimes, 
 however, they follow them a bit too strictly. If youre the right-winger and you end up on the 
 left side of the ice, your left-winger is usually not going to change his position to try and setup 
 a one-timer. Frequently, your teammates will get in the way because you are not in the right position 
 on the offensive strategys predetermined map. Aside from the frustration of setting up logical 
 offensive plays, EA Sports had to instill its most player-infuriating and consistently recurring 
 law: if losing, then scorea lot. Never fear the AI scoring 6 goals in a row on you; its only 
 natural with the laws of EA Sports. As a whole, the AI is a disappointment. With the fast-paced 
 gameplay, however, every play and nuisance passes by so fast that theres never much time to complain, 
 only enough time to survive the games inane laws.
  
  You might think that the fast-paced action would discredit the games visual presentation. On the 
 contrary, NHL 06 still puts outstanding detail into the rink environment and each players facial 
 expressions and overall appearance. Although more time went into the more famed players models, 
 each player has realism written all over their jerseys. The animations flow beautifully and, while 
 they mostly animate at above average speeds, appear to be very lifelike and believable from the 
 pulled back camera view. You can feel the pain delivered in each of the checking animations and 
 absolute destruction that takes place on the ice. Its even more painful to listen to the blissful 
 tones of flesh, pads, and bones all clashing in one beautiful note known as the body check.
 
  
  The sound effects enhance almost every dramatic aspect of the game. When the score is tied and 
 the final minute of the game has been reached, the commentary is more than enough motivation to 
 help lead you to a victorious ending. EA Sports, understands how to create an environment where 
 an intense climax is an understatement when describing the situation. Its fixed AI (yes, we know 
 your ways) and visual/audio enhancements blend nicely on the screen to show the beauty that is 
 competition. 
  
  NHL 06 offers a sizable amount of different modes to keep you busy and, like any sports game, makes 
 playing a sport repeatedly more rewarding. The dynasty mode, a mode that lets you take over any 
 NHL team or a team that you create, is the longest lasting and most in-depth of the bunch. It includes 
 the basic operations of any EA Sports dynasty mode that one might expect: scouting, buying upgrades 
 to your team (medical for injuries, coaches for player abilities, etc.) , trading, setting practice 
 schedules, and signing as many free agent players as you want due to a nonexistent salary cap. 
 You can simulate years of games and intervene during any period of any game. There is always the 
 option of giving up your day job and playing all 80, of course. Those looking for an even more 
 in-depth approach to the Madden-style dynasty mode had might as well head over to NHL 2K6 on the 
 other side of the ice.
  
  Accompanying the dynasty mode is a net full of other features that help make the great sport of 
 hockey that much more fun. The create-a-player mode also has quite a bit of depth to it and allows 
 you to create just about any face you can imagine (OK, perhaps not Michael Jackson, but were talking 
 people here) . Created players can be used in any of the other modes and can gain stats like any 
 other NHL star. The World Tournament mode lets you pit teams from different countries against each 
 other in one colossal clash of the titans (or tournament of hockey) . The season mode is an even 
 more watered down version of the dynasty mode, allowing only one season to be played without continuing 
 on afterwards. 
  
  Those looking for the an entertaining multiplayer experience have come to the right place. The 
 free-for-all mode allows you to find out which of your friends can score on a goalie moreyeah, 
 a tad basic, but surprisingly intense for those with real friends. If your best friends name is 
 Larry and he actually doesnt exist, you may find the online mode enjoyablethat is if your friend 
 Larry enjoys lag. The XBOX Live, PS2 and PC versions all have a common theme of lag included with 
 no extra charge. The online component is actually quite impressive in how it keeps track of your 
 game history and includes a worldwide ladder to compete in. If the gameplays frame rate didnt 
 change as drastically as it does online, NHL 06 would be worthy of a shiny multiplayer Stanley 
 Cup.
  
  NHL 06 brings together a substantial amount of content that forms an impressive package of hockey 
 entertainment. The quality of each individual feature is varied, however. The dynasty mode may 
 offer hours of entertainment, but you have to consider the pain of dealing with certain AI and 
 gameplay issues. When it comes to the gameplay of modern hockey games, NHL 06 is by far the best 
 in both its realism and excitement. You will find that every hockey game series focuses on a different 
 aspect of the sport. NHL 06 focuses its gameplay on recreating fast-paced, intense and memorable 
 hockey experiences. If this is the aspect of hockey that interests you most, get off the bench 
 and get in the game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dryii
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 24, 2005 8:12 pm PT
Review:  I remember the EA NHL games of old. All was fun to play, and the games felt solid and polished.
 
  
  2006 seems rushed and bugged (this one has crashed on me numerous times) .
  Online play has been fun, when I've gotten it to work. Network response time was good (have a cable 
 modem) .
  The "Be a General Manager" feature is really boring to me. I just like to play the game.
  
 
  Overall, is an OK game. Could be because the season was cancelled last year, but I hope EA does 
 a much better job next year else I'll be buying a different brand of hockey. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xyriel
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 12, 2005 9:21 am PT
Review:  No large suprises there. The look and feel of the game is basically the same than NHL 2005 and 
 NHL 2004. It's more stable (I used to have stability issues with the last version) and the most 
 noticable difference is that players position themselves better allowing for some awesome gameplay. 
 
  
  Goalies are also more spectacular in their saves. The "he's cheating, he couldn't have stopped 
 that" of previous version is now replace with a last second glove / blocker sticking out or a quick 
 pad. It's not harder to score on them, it's just that you see way better how the save was made.
 
  
  No revolution here. It's barely an evolution. But, I'm a big hockey fan and I like it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Braxen
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 8, 2005 5:09 am PT
Review:  Having played thousands of EAsports NHL-games since the first NHL for Sega Megadrive, its always 
 exciting when the next installment of the series is about to be released.
  
  NHL2004 was a great game, although I found it darn hard to defend myself, since the defensemen 
 were pretty hard to control, and skating backwards was a struggle. NHL2005 improved the controls, 
 but had an insane amount of hooking & hitting.
  
  Now NHL2006 is out and some of the issues in the previous games have been adressed.
  
  Graphics: 
 The biggest thing IMO is the ice surface, which finally is starting to look like ice. :) Players 
 are a bit more detailed. One thing that I cant understand is why some players (like Keith Primeau) 
 are monstrous in size. They look rediculously large compared to "normal" sized players like for 
 example Sami Kapanen. 
  
  Sound: The swedish commentators are hilarious to listen to... and I switched to the american ones 
 after a few games. Sound fx are nice as usual.
  
  Gameplay: Took some tweaking with the sliders to get the feel I wanted, but its really growing 
 on me. At default setting the players puck control is just silly. But adjusting the sliders (puck 
 control-min, shot blocking-max, poke check-max etc.) made the game much more fun. Yesterday I won 
 my first game on difficult setting. The computer will crush you if you neglect your defense. Players 
 in the "not so fast as Simon Gagne" category (like Michal Handzus and Derian Hatcher) move so slow 
 its silly. Takes them about 10 seconds to get through the neutral zone. 
  
  Overall: Some great improvements & more realistic gameplay makes it a worthy investment if youre 
 a fan of the "new" NHL. More goals & more fluid gameplay. Most goals feel like youve earned them 
 instead of the goalie letting random shots in.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mkraush
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 1, 2005 12:14 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay is fine, all the animations get tired after a few games, but thats ok. To say that scoring 
 is repetitive is kinda stupid, seeing as how u deke the puck around the goalie and shoot into an 
 open portion of the net... That reminds me of something, oh right, thats real hockey. But the game 
 quits a LOT for no reason, and you have to set your controls again every time u start the game, 
 which is F'ing retarded. Also the rosters on release suck so much balls. Messier and Francis and 
 all your favorite retired players are just free agents, and appear on disgraceful teams once you 
 start your season. For example... Messier is on the flames in my season, it made me throw up all 
 over my keyboard, thanks EA. Other than that the game is fine, and I get my hockey fix that I've 
 so badly needed. Graphic are nice, most of the players are recognizable from their faces. What 
 more do you need to know... if you like hockey, go buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DanM1411
Rating: 8.2
Date: Oct 20, 2005 1:35 pm PT
Review:  After playing the game for a good month or so, it's a pretty addictive game to play. The more you 
 play the more you want to continue. Especially when playing season more. The game itself isnt expensive 
 for a new release game. Won the first couple games, lost a few.
  
  The game sometime gets fustrating when your goalie lets in the most stupidest goals and theres 
 nothing you can do about it, and how when you try to body check someone instead of hitting the 
 opponent, the person your controlling dives the other way.
  
  When it comes to goal scoring, its not that hard actually, though you do have to get the right 
 angel and usually the right timing. The best way for me to score was rebound goals, shoot the puck 
 at the goalie first. Wait for it to bounce off his pads and if your lucky enough another of your 
 team member gets the one-timer and scores pretty easily. Or score when the goalie is lying down 
 for some reason I don't know what it's doing.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nele
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 20, 2005 3:18 am PT
Review:  First time I started the NHL 06, I was little anxious about what it would be like. I found NHL 
 04 to be major dissapointment, so I even decided not to purchase the 05. But as soon as I started 
 the game going, I realized this game (NHL 06) is to be something special. I found everything in 
 place, just how I pictured it. Puck control, deking, checking, shooting... everything just how 
 it should be. I'd also say that I'm delighted with the new Bruise Control, I have simply never 
 seen such a realistic body models, body movements and of course (what we NHL fans really fancy) 
 body cheks! I'd also like to say that goalies react really realistic, so there are no more those 
 annoying blue-line-beetwen-the-legs goals, which I experienced in 04. In the end, I'll say no more 
 than: obtain it, play it, enjoy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PinkFloyd2003
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 14, 2005 6:27 pm PT
Review:  Straight off the bat I should say that I really love the EA Sports NHL series and this one is no 
 exception. Every reiteration of the game takes some getting used to like for example the slight 
 button layout that changes year to year. Some features are removed while others are added but the 
 core gameplay itself is what matters the most. The layout was something of a disappointment after 
 the earlier NHL games had a superb menu interface for the computer version of the game. This on 
 the other hand is an EXACT port of the console version which made me think that less time was given 
 to the PC version of the game than before. Also gone was the option to implement your own music 
 into the game, replacing the typically under par and often times misplaced EA Trax. Although I 
 think its only fair to say that I found a program called Stream Editor which allows you to do this 
 although not as easily (and certainly not as fast) as the old dittie importer. Lets just say I 
 lost about 9-10 hrs making sure all the music I had put into NHL 2004 was available in NHL 06.
 
  
  Gameplay wise however the game is absolutely solid. As in real hockey the new rule changes make 
 for much more scoring chances. Of course you could always turn 2-Line Passing off but where was 
 the fun in that if it was a real rule? This was the first NHL game to really challenge me even 
 after the first 5 games. It could be the improved AI the game takes advantage of or it could be 
 the obvious and apparent Computer Assistance that keeps the games closer than should be. Sure its 
 fun to have close games but when you really need a win and youre going into the third period with 
 a 3 goal lead, playing on the "Difficult" setting, you can count on that disappearing very shortly. 
 4 Difficulties would have been a better idea: Easy, Medium, Difficult, and Ridiculously Frustrating. 
 On the bright side, on it's Difficult setting, its far more challenging than any previous NHL 
 entry. Also while I'm complaining I should also mention the goalie's in ability to not be made 
 to look like a fool on every other goal. There's no reason to stack the pads or fall on your butt 
 flailing your arms on every shot.
  
  Since I seem to be complaining more than applauding maybe I should get to the good stuff. First 
 of all, the more I played the game the more impressed I was. The animations are absolutely top 
 notch. So are the transitions into different animations. The graphics are very impressive and the 
 in game presentation is the best its been since Bill Clement (the one thing I actually miss from 
 NHL 2001) provided the color commentary back 5 years ago. Also the player has never had this much 
 control over the puck before. You are finally able to perform hip checks when they are best suited. 
 My personal favorite thing is that you are finally able to set up a good scoring chance by slowing 
 the game down in favor of passing around in the attacking zone rather than just typical (yet hopeful) 
 odd man rush, ending with a one-timer. This alone allows you to play how you want to play as opposed 
 to "finding the one move that works." While its still not exactly a simulation, it isn't an arcade 
 rendition of hockey. It actually finds a comfortable and fun median. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: obiken
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 10, 2005 4:41 pm PT
Review:  I am writing this to those that need to know if this game is worth buying, as always with EA Sports 
 the answer is yes. Yes, as one reviewer wrote, if you have the new thumbstick move down it is easier 
 to score goals, even on hard level. Nevertheless, I still love this game. Why because it's fun. 
 I think the graphics are better the pro reviewers say, and the interface is easy. 
  Do we want a sports simulator or a good game? I say this is a good game. 
  Next year all the 
 EA titles will get a major facelift because they have teamed up with ESPN, that partnership I think 
 will give us just awesome sports games. So yes it is a bit arcadish, but no it is not a dog like 
 some would like to say. Decide for yourself, I love it. 
  
  obiken 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meatyfrog
Rating: 8.2
Date: Sep 28, 2005 2:00 pm PT
Review:  I can tell NHL 06 is better just because I actually play this game. I tried to play NHL 05 and 
 became so frustrated halfway through the season that I quit. Not something that I am accustomed 
 to doing since I've been playing NHL for over 10 years now.
  
  Thank You EA for making this game playable again. Now if you could just work on the commentary. 
 It would be nice to add my own music (remember 04) . The create a player feels pretty cheap compared 
 to; well just about every other sports game that allows you to create a player. 
  
  I had to adjust the option and physic bars a little, but that is a positive for this game. Now 
 if only my St. Louis Blues would stop releasing their best players. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lcapussela
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 19, 2005 10:36 am PT
Review:  Even if there are a few things still to be fine tuned, NHL 06 is one of the best release in this 
 franchise history. Great graphics and a smart gameplay system. I did not go into deep with other 
 modes than the standard Season mode but at a more than a first glance everything makes us dream 
 that we are not so far from perfection on Ice Hockey simulations. A little bit too hard to win 
 when all AI settings are turned on "difficult" but this can make fun last more.
  I am Italian, I love this game and NHL 06 is a very good chance to me to dream about sitting in 
 Air Canada Center watching a Leaf game "live".
  Ciao 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xelalex24
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 8, 2005 6:54 am PT
Review:  Well boys, this may be the year that our wifes and girlfriends will leave us. =)
  
  I think this game is amazing, especially after 05 and it's better than 04. Let me begin by telling 
 you that the gameplay is really realistic. The Difficult level is really realistic. I did touch 
 the sliders a bit, but I have been finding myself losing by a goal or two, and lost twice in overtime. 
 Medium is too easy, I was scoring 8 to 10 goals per game.
  
  The stick handling on the left analog is awesome. You can really get the goalie all in a bunch. 
 The skill moves are awesome. I have counted five different skill moves so far. They are hard to 
 pull off unless it's only you and the goalie.
  
  The gameplay doesn't feel like a big cluster F@&$ like 05 and 04. All players play their postion 
 and cycle pretty well. I have noticed that they score very easily when I control a defender and 
 go for the guy coming down the wing instead of playing the lane.
  
  I do wish that they updated the Dynasty Mode much more, but hey, one step at a time. All I can 
 tell you EA, don't fool too much with the gameplay next year becuase you got it down this year.
 
  
  I did notice one bug. Sometime, very rarely, one of my guy will just stand there in the offence 
 zone when the puck is out. THe only way to get him out is actually go in the zone with the puck 
 so that you are called outside.
  
  All and all, I would give this game a 9.3 out of 10. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
