-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: NHL 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sports/nhl2004/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct  6, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.8
Critic Score: 8.5, 13 Review (s)
User Score: 8.5, 495 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Sports
Genre: Ice Hockey Sim
Date:     Sep 22, 2003
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Despite a few glitches, the latest NHL is the finest, and certainly the most challenging, NHL to 
 date. 

  It's as simple as this: If you play hockey on your PC, you play EA Sports' version of hockey. The 
 last serious competition vanished years ago, bullied out of existence by the increasingly powerful, 
 increasingly dominant EA juggernaut. Today, the NHL series is judged only against previous installments 
 and the real-life sport. This year's iteration, NHL 2004, is one of the most interesting in quite 
 some time, offering more innovations than most recent efforts and providing decidedly improved 
 realism. Despite a few glitches -- some which are quite glaring -- the latest NHL is the finest, and 
 certainly the most challenging, NHL to date, and it's a real step forward from last year's rather 
 complacent NHL 2003.  

          Ottawa captain Daniel Alfredsson cranks one from the slot.     

  Strictly from a gameplay 
 standpoint, NHL 2004 represents a major turning point for the series. Gone are the unrealistically 
 fast, stylish laser-beam passing and shooting drills of past editions. Those brilliant 10-pass 
 relays culminating in light-speed one-timers to the top corner? They're very rare indeed. Instead, 
 the development team, EA Black Box, has built a game based on today's NHL. As anyone who follows 
 the sport will tell you, the National Hockey League is now a tight-checking affair where humungous, 
 highly talented players battle tooth and nail with other humungous highly talented players for 
 every inch of a too-small ice surface. To advance the puck through defenders, into the slot, and 
 eventually on the net, gamers must use a combination of foresight, skillful gamepad manipulation, 
 and plenty of hard, bruising work around the perimeter and along the boards.  

  Like it or not, this is the current state of affairs in the real world, and it is reflected in 
 the game. Now, hooking and bumping and clutching are paramount. The battles along the boards are 
 tenacious, prolonged, and, sometimes, just plain hurtful. Fortunately, skaters aren't the only 
 players blessed with new and improved humanness. Black Box didn't forget the goaltenders either. 

  Depending on their level of competence, goalies will give up dangerous rebounds that may find their 
 ways to an opponent's stick. They'll occasionally muff a save, by getting just a piece of the puck 
 and letting it dribble in along the ice or by letting the puck bounce over their sticks and past 
 their shoulders and into the net. Furthermore, they're forced to endure the probing sticks of enemy 
 players, who realistically poke away at the puck even when it seems to be safely covered up. Unfortunately, 
 the developer has not instituted any new goalie controls beyond "save," "pass," and "clear puck." 
 A "smack upside the head" control would have been nice.  

  The kicker is that none of the above is easy. Although NHL 2004's easiest difficulty level still 
 allows rookies to win their fair share of games just by using basic gamepad controls, all other 
 levels require substantially more knowledge and practice than ever before.  

  As the commander and overlord of your team, you must make use of every button and button combination 
 to prevail. Complex deking maneuvers, shot blocks, hooks, poke checks, body checks, an assortment 
 of variable speed passes and shots, and precise positioning are the new weapons of NHL 2004. With 
 judicious use of the right analog stick (presuming your controller is so equipped) , you can even 
 control the exact direction of your check or body check so you don't miss your desired target. 
 In fact, if you don't master this new option -- deemed "bruise control" -- throwing a solid hit is 
 almost inordinately difficult.  

  The truth is that fans of arcade-style wham-bam hockey may never warm up to the new challenges. 
 Certainly they won't be happy to know that Black Box has altered the user control set so that the 
 "speed burst" and "body check" actions are now activated by separate buttons, hence making those 
 monstrously crushing body blows of the past nearly impossible. However, hardcore players willing 
 to put in lots of practice time should come to love the significantly altered new approach.  

 
  Black Box has also rid the game of some its more annoying foibles. For example, you can no longer 
 count on your AI-controlled opposition to consistently flub their breakaway opportunities. More 
 often than not, a breakaway will result in a goal. You can now no longer complete a successful 
 pass unless the intended recipient is oriented to the puck carrier and is free of nearby rivals. 
 You can't delay an outlet pass from the defensive zone and expect your target player to prevent 
 a two-line offside call by magically tap dancing just inches from the center line. And, thankfully, 
 the only time you'll see an AI goalie freeze the puck for a play stoppage is when you've completely 
 cut off all opportunities to clear it.  

          NHL's new and vastly improved spectators add a new sense of realism and drama to the series. 
     

  Still, some problems remain. On more than one occasion we've been hung out to dry by a goalie who 
 meandered behind his net and became stuck there, somehow unable to return to his proper position 
 until the next whistle. We experienced several phantom offside calls and were none too pleased 
 to discover that the most effective defensive technique still involves hammering opponents to the 
 ice illegally, even if they aren't carrying the puck. Sadly, the one big problem hampering every 
 NHL upgrade to date has not been wholly rectified. As in past versions, the latest game leaves 
 you with the feeling that the programming code exerts too much control over which scoring opportunities 
 are successful, which are not, and, sometimes, which team will eventually prevail. Furthermore, 
 the software seems to go to exaggerated lengths to ensure a close, exciting finish.  

  Indeed, we were surprised at the number of times we were able to tie a close game in the last few 
 seconds on a seemingly feeble shot and were then able to win it on another easy shot in overtime. 
 We were also surprised at the ease with which our AI opponents scored three or four late goals 
 in the span of just a couple of minutes to knot an otherwise one-sided contest. Proven goal scorers 
 hitting the post of a wide-open cage from point blank range and massive shot advantages that don't 
 pan out on the scoreboard are things that just don't happen in the real world. It is clear that 
 the game engine attempts to duplicate the sense of good or bad luck and emotional swings that permeate 
 many NHL games, but the execution leaves something to be desired. Happily, the frequency of these 
 predetermined instances has decreased enough so that gameplay is generally a positive experience. 
     

   

  NHL's graphics remain, for the most part, as they were in last year's model. In other words, the 
 game looks as superb as ever but not appreciably enhanced. The most notable exception is the depiction 
 of the crowd. In prior iterations, spectators were portrayed as either 2D cutouts or squared swatches 
 of color. This time around, each little fan is a mobile and fully reactive 3D entity. Granted, 
 there are probably only a dozen or so distinct entities strewn throughout each building, each replicated 
 many times over to fill the stadium, but the overall impression is superb. It is a wondrous thing 
 to watch thousands of these little performers, many of whom are decked out in hometown jerseys, 
 jumping from their seats or throwing their hands in the air to celebrate a goal or a win.  

          Contract negotiations are just one of many elements you'll need to manage in NHL 2004's 
 dynasty mode.     

  This year, the game features nearly 100 total teams, including 30 from the NHL, 20 from the world 
 class international level, 40 from Europe's pro leagues, and several all-star squads. That's a 
 lot of teams, especially considering that each is stocked with more than 20 digitally re-created, 
 motion-captured, structurally correct representations of real-life players. And now, these players 
 look better than ever.  

  Rather than focusing on intimate player detail, facial expressions, and other processing-intensive 
 elements most users won't even see during the course of a game, Black Box has clearly directed 
 its efforts on general animations. The results are stunning. Now, when you direct your player to 
 perform a given action, he'll do so with a unique set of miniscule movements unique to the given 
 situation. Turn your skater quickly, and he'll perform the same series of maneuvers a real player 
 would do in the same circumstances. He'll snowplow to a stop, throwing up a shower of ice shards 
 in the process, and forcibly push his body in the opposite direction. You'll actually see his midtorso 
 moving first, then his legs, and finally his arms. This sort of authenticity is evident from start 
 to finish.  

  Off the ice, NHL offers the same massive array of options and settings we've all come to expect 
 from most top-drawer EA Sports titles. In essence, the game can be just about anything you want 
 it to be. If you don't like the rules, you can change them. If you can't handle the speed, you 
 can reduce it. If you want to play a one-off exhibition between two mediocre European teams or 
 a full season of NHL play, you can do that too. And if you want to create a superhuman powerhouse 
 player who can shoot the lights out from 100 yards away and toss aside opponents with a mere shrug 
 of his enormous shoulders, go ahead and create him.  

  However, one thing you haven't been able to do in the past is conduct a career. In NHL 2004, you 
 can. EA deems it "Dynasty," and it is quite fantastic. In dynasty mode, you control virtually every 
 aspect of your chosen team's operation, right on down to salary negotiations and ticket prices. 
 You decide if you want to put your squad through another laborious practice on the next nongame 
 day. You decide if you want to give them a well-deserved break. You decide who to dress, who to 
 scratch, who to trade, who to draft, and who to send down to the farm. The ramifications of your 
 decisions are many. Happy players, making a good wage and on the verge of a potential salary increase, 
 tend to play very well indeed, but they will cost a pretty penny to keep around for the next year. 
 Poorly performing teams may benefit from more practices, or they'll grow tired and disillusioned. 
 Wins are good for everything, including your fan-base and attendance figures.  

  The better you do, the sooner you acquire upgrade points, which may then be allocated toward critical 
 aspects, like scouting or medical staffs. Even when things appear to be going swimmingly, you must 
 remain aware of potential trouble, like fatigued players who are risking injury, declining revenue 
 due to high salaries, and much more. To make matters even more interesting, the other GMs are a 
 smart bunch who draft intelligently and won't accept bogus trade offers. One word of warning: A 
 season of dynasty hockey is permanently set at 82 games, and, therefore, involves a lot of time 
 and effort -- unless you ask the program to simulate your results.  

  Aside from one rather frustrating bug, NHL 2004's audio is as solid as it has always been. The 
 musical score is standard EA Sports fare -- lots of loud raucous nu-metal and rap rock. Rowdy young 
 folk will eat it up, but many will ultimately turn it down or switch it off, particularly after 
 they've heard everything three or four times -- which won't take much more than a few hours.  

  The game's sound effects are typically stellar. They encompass everything from surround sound 
 crowd chants to air horns, from various reverberating stick-on-puck whacks to swooshing shot follow-throughs, 
 from thumping body checks to a wide range of oofs and ughs, and much more. While all of the above 
 is fine and dandy, the announcing is anything but.  

  It's not the quality of the announcing tandem that's the problem. Returning for yet another go 
 is NHL play-by-play stalwart, and superb real-life hockey broadcaster, Jim Hughson, who sounds 
 as great as ever. Joining Hughson this time is ex-player, and current television hockey analyst, 
 Craig Simpson, who sits in the color commentator chair occupied by Don Taylor during the last two 
 seasons. Taylor, a funny guy and excellent sports anchor in real life, was a breath of fresh air 
 in NHL 2002 but suffered from an inane script in NHL 2003. Simpson, considerably more restrained 
 than Taylor, nevertheless delivers his somewhat dreary script well and does not hamper the proceedings. 

          Big hits are tougher to dish out in NHL 2004, but they're no less satisfying.     

 
  No, the real irritation here is the sheer number of times these guys are wrong. They'll plead 
 for the teams to "open it up" when the score is already 5-to-5. They'll rave about a goaltender's 
 shutout when said goalie is not, in fact, brandishing a shutout. They'll refer to the game at hand 
 as an exhibition contest when it's, in fact, a regular season or dynasty game. You're likely to 
 experience this sort of blatant error at least once or twice per game, and that's not acceptable. 

  Neither are online glitches. Like previous installments, NHL 2004 supports a variety of multiplayer 
 modes, including LAN, direct connection, Internet, and the comprehensive EA Sports Online paid 
 service. The good news is that it runs quite smoothly online, exhibiting, satisfactorily, little 
 lag and virtually no morphing. The bad news is that games tend to end prematurely. Of the half-dozen 
 contests we played via EA Sports Online, we crashed out thrice, most often during the face-off 
 routine, and usually after we'd gone deep into a given contest. In surveying other players, we 
 found such problems were not at all atypical. Granted, EA will most likely address this issue in 
 the near future, unfortunately that won't help those who are playing now.  

  Clearly, the deepest, toughest, and most authentic NHL to date, NHL 2004 seeks to recapture the 
 hearts of those serious hockey fans who may have found it too action-oriented in the recent past. 
 It is successful, for the most part, despite several question marks and problem spots. If you shied 
 away, or were disappointed by last year's model, and are willing to accept an inevitable patch, 
 this is the year to get back in the game.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (13 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: agordplayer
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 2, 2008 7:22 am PT
Review:  Despite a few glitches, the latest NHL is the finest, and certainly the most challenging, NHL to 
 date. NHL 2004 gives a good solid game of hockey. Graphics are getting better. Has a good selection 
 of teams. A good amount of new features including new elite teams and hard hitting NHL action. 
 I recommend this NHL game to all hockey fans. A great NHL experience. Overall I give this game 
 a 8.5 out 10 stars.
  
  
  Despite a few glitches, the latest NHL is the finest, and certainly the most challenging, NHL to 
 date. NHL 2004 gives a good solid game of hockey. Graphics are getting better. Has a good selection 
 of teams. A good amount of new features including new elite teams and hard hitting NHL action. 
 I recommend this NHL game to all hockey fans. A great NHL experience. Overall I give this game 
 a 8.5 out 10 stars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SgtGray
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 6, 2008 9:48 am PT
Review:  This is the first NHL game I have ever played and I was actually quite surprised with the results. 
 Despite being five years old this game actually holds up pretty well.
  The graphics are brilliant considering it's age, although on many occasions the animations are 
 terrible. For instance on the ice you can check a player when he's two feet away. Sometimes you 
 will be glad for the bugs, as they sometimes prevent, or cause the puck to end up in the back of 
 the net for no apparent reason.
  The trouble with this game is that the spectators have not evolved much from the old cardboard 
 cutouts of old racing games. Maybe they have some new animations such as walking up and down the 
 aisle and clapping, but even then, when it comes to slow-motion replays the spectators seem to 
 double speed instead of slowing down.
  As for the audio, it makes you feel as if you really are on the ice when the graphics let you down.
 
  In multiplayer I really can't say because there is no server browser in the game, forcing you 
 to type in an i. p. address to play online. That is if you arn't willing to pay EA for a gamespy-like 
 multiplayer.
  The music in the game is okay, but there isn't a lot of it unfortunatly. We have been told about 
 a music importer so that you can listen to your own music in-game, but this idea has dissapeared 
 into thin air.
  Gameplay is fun but takes practice, and it is quite hard to fool the AI on the other team.
  So 
 I gotta admit this game is fun yet badly flawed. 
  Well worth playing but not for everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wkdjones
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 18, 2006 11:18 am PT
Review:  This was bad / good ( so about mediumy good/ bad) it was ok in the department of healthy and safety 
 AS NO INJURIES ARE SUBSTAINED DURING GAMEPLAY. It is bad. Well its ok. Well actually its the most 
 superb edition of a sports game known to man ever. It has the gameplay of pro evo, the graphics 
 of pro evo, the sound of LOTR and the value of power rangers on fox TV. On the other hand it has 
 the graphics of pacman, the gamespan of pacman, about as fun as getting a nail hammered throught 
 your hand and then being told that the waiting time will be 17 hours at the hospital. You then 
 pull it out pliers and prompty pass out due to pain and on the way down clonking your head on a 
 sledge hammer which is being launched throught he air by Arnold Schazznegger. In conclusion this 
 game is OK. We're bored now and are going to go on the Eragon demo which is on 36%... sorry 37% 
 complete for the remaindere og the time I may waffle onabout a diff game in a diff review. As you 
 can see this is my first review and after the first word is read you may turn away but i am going 
 to finish by saying. 'Silent night, holy night...' i think Nat is an imbred. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LuDaDJ
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 13, 2006 7:05 pm PT
Review:  Past iterations of NHL has been enjoyable, uptempo portrayals of hockey, even though they have 
 been a bit arcade like. NHL 2003 slowed the default tempo of the game down, and now NHL 2004 has 
 completed the transition, presenting a more realistic simulation of hockey. Players no longer speed 
 down the ice at breakneck speeds, outrageous body checks are less common, goals are tougher to 
 come by, and the computer is tougher. 
  
  Gameplay feels a lot more similar to 2K's NHL 2K3, with the incorporation of a new control scheme. 
 Like NHL 2K3, there's a shift button to perform advanced moves, such as fake shots and passes, 
 or to get a player to block the puck. There are now two pass buttons, one for regular passes, and 
 one for saucer passes. A new feature is the ability to control the direction of your checks with 
 the right analog stick.
  
  Once you start playing, you'll notice how much more challenging NHL 2004 is compared to its predecessors. 
 The game difficulty is comparable to NHL 2K3, if not harder. The moves you used to pull off in 
 previous NHL games won't work as effectively, especially if you like to make long passes or "blind" 
 one timers, where you could make a centering pass and count on a man being there for a one timer. 
 Quality one times are hard to come by, as usually guys in front of the net are being tied up by 
 the defense, and passes are hard to complete. The best way to score is probably to put a shot on 
 goal and hope for a rebound. Pucks will trickle off goalies, something that was first noticeable 
 in NHL 2003.
  
  The presentation and graphics are again, top notch, and complements the new gameplay quite well. 
 The eye candy effects you expect from a hockey game are there, with ice reflections and the ice 
 getting scraped up and losing its shine over the course of a period. You can knock helmets off 
 players now with a hard check, but it happens rarely. By default hero stats, which first appeared 
 in NHL 2002, are turned off, and EA got rid of the tacky gamebreaker feature, further convincing 
 us that NHL 2004 is a serious simulation. However, if you are unhappy with the default gameplay 
 settings, you can still tweak settings like puck friction and game speed to your liking.
  
  If there's one thing bad about the game, it's your teammates' AI. They don't appear too bright. 
 Too often you'll find yourself the only skater in the offensive zone, with no one to pass to. They 
 don't recognize odd man rushes, rarely will they trail the play when you take the puck down the 
 ice. Even when you hold the puck behind the opposing net, your teammates will not get into any 
 good positions for you to attempt a one-timer.
  
  The new gameplay style takes some getting used to if you're a long time NHL veteran, but ultimately 
 the changes are good for the NHL franchise, paying off with an excellent simulation of hockey, 
 and a solid, satisfying game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacobderosenoir
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 9, 2006 1:31 pm PT
Review:  DYNASTY MODE - THE REAL GAME 
  I've own ALL the NHL game from 1994 to today. When they introduced the season play in 2000, I had 
 so much fun going through the 5 seasons progress that my friendand I were only playing it without 
 actually playing the game, just managing the team even if it was limited to signing free agents, 
 trading players and managing injuries. 
  
  In NHL 2004, you have it all. Dynasty mode is a dream come true. In all the reviews I've seen, 
 they only talk about this new feature as an added bonus. IT IS NOT. It is a game in itself. Going 
 through 20 seasons, building your team, upgrading your installations, training your rookies so 
 that they become true hero in 3 years, trying to keep up with the payroll with your ticket price, 
 everything is here. 
  
  The only drawback is the lack of documentation for the dynasty mode that would help you starting 
 your dynasty. The Hint and Tips page on EA's web site should have been included in the documention 
 otherwise you get very frustrated on trying to figure out what works and what's not. The experience 
 points for manager is very intricate and EA should at least give you some indications on the drivers 
 for those points. 
  
  As for the ice game itself, EA finally understood that arcade game style is not what we're looking 
 in for their game and it shows. Now it's very difficult to go from net to net with one player without 
 being poke checked or nailed down. You can actually pass the puck in the attacking zone and try 
 on creating some opportunities. 
  
  If this is not realistic enough you can adjust almost everything in the game from the way the AI 
 behave to the physics that drives the puck. 
  
  This is by far the best NHL game ever. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: A_Viper
Rating: 6.8
Date: Feb 15, 2006 4:07 am PT
Review:  Ice Hockey is a great sport, but living in the UK I don't get nearly enough access to it. So buying 
 the EA Sports NHL game is something of a no-brainer for me, as I get to live the game in my own 
 home. NHL 2004 is a good game, with highly realistic hockey and exciting matches, however there 
 are many glitches, and some of the game modes seem quite poorly put together.
  
  I'll start with the positives though. Graphically this is solid, without being as spectacular as 
 it is billed to be. The players are lifelike, but lack the detail levels you'd expect from a game 
 released in the back end of 2003. Their movements are fluid and highly realistic (which you'd expect 
 considering that they were motion-captured) , however facial expressions are poor and just seem 
 very generic. The arena's are represented in great detail, and the crowd (a traditional flaw in 
 all sports sims) are well done. Gone are the 2D crowds that are nothing more that a coloured line 
 when seen side on, to be replaced by individually modelled people. Obviously, there are not many 
 of these models, with stadiums being filled with a couple of hundred doppelgangers of each model, 
 however this isn't a problem, as it is simply refreshing to see a change from the lame 2D crowds.
 
  
  The sound is good, however the commentary becomes irritating after a while. As picked up in the 
 Gamespot review, the announcers make multiple errors in matches, which is unexpected and frankly 
 substandard from an EA Sports game. The phrases that they use tend to become irritating after a 
 while too, as there is not nearly enough variety in the script. Saying this though, both announcers 
 do a solid job and seem believable. The soundtrack may well be the games strongest point, being 
 a good selection of pop-punk tunes featuring standout tracks from Gob and The Atari's.
  
  It is possible to play in one off game, league, or career mode. While the first two are excellent, 
 the final mode leaves a lot to be desired. One off matches can feature any NHL team, many international 
 teams, or teams from Finland, Sweden and Germany. This range is excellent, and with players being 
 individually modelled the amount of effort EA Sports has gone to is highly commendable. Playing 
 in leagues is also a lot of fun, as you can set the length of the season, and can continue through 
 several seasons, creating a squad of your own choosing. 
  
  The career or "Dynasty" mode is rather less successful though. The concept is good, but it is poorly 
 documented and implemented. The interface for it is clumsy; creating a good training balance is 
 nigh on impossible - with all players seeming to suffer from fatigue or skill loss no matter what 
 system is implemented. The financial side of it doesn't seem to work. I was paying players super 
 high salaries, varying ticket prices and still no change in my balance sheet was apparent. The 
 upgrade points were hard to come by, and no noticeable difference was found when I implemented 
 them. The one major plus was the realistic AI of the other managers, who would only make decent 
 trades involving players or draft selections. The draft isn't particularly well implemented, with 
 not enough information being supplied on the possible players. The whole concept of it is good, 
 but it seems to have been poorly executed, which is a shame as it could have been the major selling 
 point of the game.
  
  It is possible to create your own players and teams in NHL 2004. They can be added to existing 
 sides or can even replace current teams, though I found there to be flaws with the kit, especially 
 in the goalkeepers, who's helmets were always white, no matter what kit their side was wearing. 
 It is also impossible to delete players once you have created them, which seems a little bit strange. 
 Bugs like this are frustrating, but do not cause a dislike of the game though.
  
  There are several more severe bugs in the game though, the most alarming being the consistent crashes 
 if certain menu options are selected. While it is difficult to get any game to be entirely bug 
 free, such blatant problems are frankly unacceptable.
  
  So on the whole this is an enjoyable experience, however it lacks the professionalism you'd expect 
 from an EA Sports game. They are the market leaders in terms of sports sims, and thus a lot is 
 expected from their products. While NHL 2004 is a good game on face value, too many aspects of 
 it seem poorly executed and badly documented, meaning that I've never been able to get the most 
 out of this game. It should have been the defining hockey sim, but sadly in my eyes it falls a 
 long way short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fable_fodder
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 8, 2006 9:37 am PT
Review:  This was a very fun game for me. My favorite part was making custom players. You can make a whole 
 team of all your friends with skills that fit their personality. Lets say your friend was fast, 
 you could pump their skill points for being fast to the max. Other than that, you just play hockey 
 with other teams. it's also fun to play online against other people. If one of your friends bought 
 the game and made a player of them and you made a player of you, you could put them head to head 
 to see which was better. I can't really say anything other than that. It's hockey... You score a 
 goal, the red light goes on and the crown cheers. It's a fun game to play but there's nothing special 
 about hockey. I thought the creators did a good job making it though considering all that had to 
 work with was that they were supposed to make a hockey game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CTOCTOCTO
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 29, 2005 1:11 pm PT
Review:  Hockey-mad PC gamers face a tough decision each year -- plunk down 40 bucks for the latest version 
 of EA Sports' NHL or stick with last year's perfectly serviceable edition. A number of factors 
 weigh in here, not the least of which is just how much "stuff" EA has shoehorned into the new CD 
 (updated rosters aside) . With the series' latest chapter, I'm happy to report that the decision 
 is a complete no-brainer. NHL 2004 is a must-have game for rookie hockey fans and purists alike. 
 
  
  With close to 90 updated and licensed team rosters to select from -- 20 international teams and 
 39 new elite European squads supplement the game's 30 NHL franchises -- there's no shortage of 
 player personnel in NHL 2004. What really adds to the game's depth, however, is its new dynasty 
 mode. Assuming the role of GM, you can now draft or scout player prospects and negotiate contracts 
 with your team's veteran and rookie talent while simultaneously adjusting ticket prices, upgrading 
 team facilities, negotiating TV contracts, and even furnishing your office. It's a remarkably immersive 
 experience that can be played either as a standalone RPG exercise or as an absorbing compliment 
 to the core game. 
  
  1 more thing, the Menu Scree looks disgusting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sven55
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 1, 2005 7:44 pm PT
Review:  Fantastic effort for a hockey game. AI has been VASTLY improved from previous installments. Even 
 after a lot of practice, you still might have trouble scoring a goal every now and then. Which 
 is good - you'll still win most every contest, but it won't feel blowout-cheap like other hockey 
 games. New controls and defensive intelligence force you to be much more precise with your shots 
 and passes, adding a layer of strategy and challenge not typical in a sports title.
  
  Graphics and animations are very pretty. And of course, you'll enjoy more than a few well-rendered, 
 bone-crushing body checks. Nice.
  
  Sound is the only lacking category, and it all stems from poorly programmed commentary. The commentators 
 are incorrect about game situations. (like the fact your goalie has a shutout going when, in fact, 
 he has allowed three goals) They also will say the name of the player who is intended to get the 
 pass well before the pass arrives, so Hughson will say, "Yzerman," even though the pass missed 
 Yzerman badly and is now sliding shamefully towards the defensive zone. It's too bad for this problem, 
 because when the play-by-play is on target, it's rather good.
  
  I give this game a 10 in value because of the phenomenal Dynasty mode. GM's are asked to set ticket 
 prices, manage player salaries, upgrade staff and player facilities, draft rookies, sign free agents 
 - while there's nothing necessarily new about this stuff, it's very well executed, and gives the 
 game humongous longevity. It's so well designed that EA is losing money from me on the deal - I 
 can't buy a new hockey game for my PC, because I'm still intent on finishing NHL 2004.
  
  Great game, and now super cheap. If you're looking for a good hockey game and don't want to pay 
 a whole lot for it, this is your game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: panthers187
Rating: 6.2
Date: Oct 8, 2003 9:34 am PT
Review:  right lets have a real review i have played all the nhl games since it was just called ea hockey 
 on the megadrive and i absolutley loved it making me a big fan of the series ,
  i have bought each years instalment and from 2000 onwards i have been dissapointed.
  this game 
 to be honest is terrible the dynasty mode i admit gives value for money so thumbs up there ea, but 
 to play the actual game is the letdown your team members are thick is the best way i can explain 
 it u end it up running the puck to the opposition goal then stopping and waiting for team members 
 to join you thats terrible yet if you watch the opposition there superb teammates come down to 
 attack with them and the amount of shots they have on your net well lets put it this way it's a 
 good job ea upped the goalkeepers cuz if not u would get walloped also the stats on the players 
 don't make a difference at all every member of the opposition can out speed you by about 20% which 
 means you spend the whole game doing moves that quick in fear of getting caught up by the 5 teemu 
 selannes on the opposite team.
  right now for the defence the opposition defence is awsome you make a move to the left the defender 
 dives down cuz esp tells him ur gonna shoot psychic players to nice one ea, your defence are pathetic 
 they are the only ones go up front cuz ur forwards stay back and defend lol it's funny i got 8 
 goals in 5 games with vishnevski lol when u lose a goal all do me a favour watch the replay and 
 see what ur defender was doing just standing next to the scorer is normally the answer ,graphics 
 wise once again the game is superb it really is but unfortunatley the game doesnt live up to it 
 . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zsciaeount
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 2, 2003 9:38 pm PT
Review:  After a series of missteps over the past few years, and pushed by mounting competition from Sega 
 sports, EA's NHL 2004 returns the venerable series to flagship status with what may very well be 
 the best hockey game to date.
  
  Many fans of EA's NHL series have not been quite content with the recent installments in the series. 
 While continually taking the graphics up a notch, the gameplay became more and more arcade-like, 
 and the series took a wrong turn somewhere near the decision to try to make the color commentary 
 humorous. Well, now with the simulation style of hockey boasted by Sega's NHL line winning raves 
 from critics and players alike, EA decided to answer with a new NHL that is more true to the real 
 game than any installment before.
  
  Don't get me wrong, though: NHL 2004 is still just over-the-top enough to keep it interesting, 
 and a lot of the hard-hitting, fast-action plays are back. However, the game has been deepened 
 by a whole slew of control options, and improved teammate AI.
  
  Let's start with the gameplay. Any fan of hockey will tell you that hockey is like a really fast 
 game of chess, and applying the right defensive and offensive pressure is key to making good plays. 
 NHL 2004 takes this to heart, allowing you to select a number of strategies on the fly. Trying 
 to protect a lead on a penalty kill? Collapse your players towards the net. Gunning for a goal 
 to send the game into overtime? Increase your offensive pressure. It's all there at your fingertips. 
 In addition, NHL 2004 now offers the long overdue ability to tie players up along the boards, as 
 well as the ability to block a puck with your body. The former is particularly exciting, since 
 play along the boards is a vital component of hockey. The system is not as robust as in Sega's 
 line, but it's still a very welcome addition.
  
  The AI has been significantly improved. I used to turn off offsides in previous installments, because 
 whenever I had the puck, all my computer-controlled teammates would just rush into the offensive 
 zone and send the play offsides. It was infuriating. Now, players will rush to get back onside. 
 Teammates battle for the puck, and generally play good D. Fans of the series will also be happy 
 to hear that goalie AI is now very realisitc. It feels like skill and good dekes and one-timers 
 are part of the equation now. Goalies seem to be more vulnerable when screened, and more like stonewalls 
 when the shot is obvious. The result is more realistic final scores than in previous games.
  
  The fighting engine has also been revitalized, incorporating the all-important fact that most 
 hockey fights are based upon a grapple. The ability to knock helmets off is great, but it would 
 have been even better to be able to tug your opponent's sweater over their head.
  
  As far as controls go, the system is quite robust. Manual dekes are back, and the new addition 
 is a manual hitting system that lets you strike in all directions. Saucer passes, diving, poke 
 checks... they're all part of the game. For novice players, the basic control scheme is easy to 
 control, and advanced players will appreciate the flexibility the system allows.
  
  Of course, with some freedom comes a drawback. The ability to pass to open ice and use the boards 
 makes tape-to-tape passes difficult to pull off. In fact, if one criticism could be levied against 
 the game, it's that teammates aren't very good about picking up even a good pass; they'll often 
 overskate the puck, allowing a turnover.
  
  Graphics? Do I even have to tell you? As always, EA has delivered a visual feast. Everything, from 
 the players, to the deformable ice, to the fully 3D crowd is impeccably recreated. The animation 
 is simply amazing, as players glide, spin, and fall realistically. Collisions look great, and the 
 deke animations are superb.
  
  In the sound department, NHL 2004 delivers again, though it suffers from the same sound level imbalances 
 of previous installments. It's tough to find the right balance to hear everything in all its glory. 
 And, it's about time EA started supporting 5.1 speaker systems, which are rapidly becoming the 
 norm among PC gamers.
  
  The commentary has THANKFULLY been toned down. The annoying Don Taylor is finally out the door, 
 and the new color commentary is decidedly more sedate. Once again, Jim Houghson provides the play-by-play, 
 and it follows the play well, but it's no real improvement over previous years. After hearing Gary 
 Thorne and Bill Clement on Sega's newest game, Houghson's commentary immediately sounds simplistic 
 and not varied enough. Fewer player-specific comments are offered throughout the game as I would 
 like to see. Once again, it's a lot of generic comments like "this guy," and "the goalie."
  
  All in all, NHL 2004 is a very solid offering, and sure to please fans looking for a sim-style 
 hockey with an EA presentation. The addition of online play is a wonderful step, and the wealth 
 of features and new additions in the game warrant a purchase, even if you already own a recent 
 installment in the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordRegan
Rating: 7.9
Date: Sep 26, 2003 7:05 pm PT
Review:  Playing NHL 2003 was great at times, until I beat the Season mode a couple of times (with my rangers 
 of course) . 2004's Dynasty mode takes that away, while adding a whole slew of great in game features. 
 I enjoy the contract parts of the game as well as upgrading facilities using points obtained by 
 good GM decisions and winning games. 
  The new defensive tactics like tying people up and hooking really make the game more interesting 
 (and realistic as you can and often do get called for  - obstruction) . 
 Sometimes all the keys can be overwhelming; as for now I haven't figured out how to make poke check 
 and shoot the same key :) . The actual gameplay is much more difficult in this year's version, I 
 must add. The passing is much more difficult and the computer makes divine cross ice passes constantly. 
 I could see this level of difficulty on the hard level, but even on "easy" it is very difficult 
 to get a good play in action. This makes the game frustrating at points. 
  
  OH and by the way *previous reviewer's name excluded*, The 2003-2004 season will feature home jerseys 
 as the dark color, so the programmers didn't mess up!
  
  I would buy this game if I were you all, if you can put up with difficulty. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BucketSmith
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 25, 2003 12:35 pm PT
Review:  By far the best NHL ever - NHL 2004 has made tremendous improvements in gameplay as far as I can 
 tell (about 15 games so far played with 10 minute periods on MEDIUM level) .
  
  Defense has been dramatically improved with new actions such as pinning a player to the boards 
 and the ability to hook players better than in previous versions to slow down the assault. Passing 
 takes alot of practice and you will find yourself constantly being frustrated trying to move the 
 puck - which is a good thing - it was much too easy to dominate the ice in past versions, and this 
 feels more like the frustration I know players must feel when playing the real thing.
  
  The dynasty mode adds tremendous value to the game, though navigating through the menus to get 
 information is not executed as well as in the past. As well there are some bugs - computer shots 
 on goal are still staggeringly high most of the time, EA has made all of the away jerseys the home 
 jerseys and vice versa, and some of the throwback jerseys are with the wrong teams (Minnesota North 
 Stars for the Wild instead of the Stars for example) . Also, sometimes your players will be out 
 with the flu for 3 days, but still in the lineup - so are they out, or not?
  
  Minor annoyances aside (and I'm sure a patch will address alot of these minor things) the gameplay 
 is the best it has been yet. Any diehard NHL series buyer must own this title - the game is a new 
 challenge and the dynasty mode adds a ton to the experience.
  
  If we can just get EA to put a decent instruction manual in with their products (how do you fight 
 in this game? - did I mention there is nothing in the manual about how to play the game?) and tweak 
 a few little bugs, we may finally have the hockey game we've always wanted. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
