-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: NHL 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sports/nhl2005/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 20, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.9
Critic Score: 6.8, 10 Review (s)
User Score: 7.8, 405 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Sports
Genre: Ice Hockey Sim
Date:     Sep 14, 2004
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Make no mistake. NHL 2005 is still a solid game of hockey -- but it shouldn't be your first choice 
 for one. "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        NHL 2005 Review 
 for PC - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, 
 cTrkPrefix) { var imgElem =               The Video Review               

 Alex Navarro gives you his feedback on EA's NHL 2005.       Watch It                       After 
 The Fact:  Reviews Revisited        What's this?               Update:  Servers Offline    Posted: 
 Nov 5, 2008 4:31 pm PT      Toward the end of 2006, the online service for this game was shut down 
 by EA. &nbsp;               

  With the NHL player lockout having now moved beyond the realm of mere probability into cold, hard 
 fact, hockey fans are likely to be on the hunt for any kind of hockey they can find between now 
 and next year. On the video game front, both Visual Concepts and EA are once again adding new installments 
 to their yearly NHL franchises. ESPN NHL 2K5, Visual Concepts' title, came out on the PlayStation 
 2 and Xbox earlier this month and proved to be a phenomenal game of hockey. NHL 2005, EA's newest 
 hockey title, looks fantastic, but it doesn't quite compare in terms of its actual hockey gameplay. 
 Sure, the game definitely improves upon certain aspects of last year's NHL 2004, but in other key 
 areas, the game suffers from some occasionally overambitious artificial intelligence and restrictive 
 game design that ultimately makes the game more frustrating than it probably should be. Make no 
 mistake. This is still a solid game of hockey, but it isn't the most realistic or best-playing 
 NHL title out there, and as such, it shouldn't be your first choice for one.  

          EA-brand hockey is back for yet another year on the ice, although this time, it seems as 
 though the franchise lost some of its firepower in the offseason.     

  If you played NHL 2004, you'll notice a few subtle but useful control tweaks in this year's game. 
 The first and perhaps most important one is the separation of slap shots and wrist shots into two 
 separate buttons. Other games have given you ways to control exactly what kinds of shot you wanted 
 to send toward the net, but this method is by far the easiest. Now, if you want to send a blistering 
 slap shot from the point on command, you can. And if you want to get in close to the net to send 
 a wrister up top-shelf, you can do that too. NHL 2005 also features a brand-new wraparound shot 
 that is far more like the type of quick wraparounds you would see in a real NHL game. Just press 
 one of the shot buttons while behind the net, and your player will try to push the puck into the 
 corner of the net. If you played the last Midway-produced NHL title, NHL Hitz Pro, you may recognize 
 this exact same shot from that game. However, just because EA didn't invent it doesn't make it 
 a bad idea. So, in fact, it's an immensely useful addition.  

  Another useful control change is the ability to shift control to a player that isn't in possession 
 of the puck when on offense. By pressing a button, you'll then be in control of another forward 
 while the player in control of the puck moves up-ice. Position yourself correctly and you'll be 
 in line for a quick one-timer. The one downside to this mechanic is that the camera always stays 
 trained on the player who's controlling the puck, so it can sometimes be hard to get a bearing 
 on the controlled player's position. However, once you get the hang of it, this mechanic becomes 
 pretty indispensable.  

  One big gameplay fix from last year's game is the whole passing system. NHL 2005 still has the 
 same basic two-button passing system from last year, but it's been polished up to fix some of the 
 problems people had with passes just missing to the left or right. The puck still doesn't just 
 automatically go to the closest player's stick, but passing is generally a lot more accurate and 
 easier to manage, so you're far less likely to whiff on what should be an easy and clear pass. 

          The new two-button-shooting mechanics easily represent the best gameplay upgrade made to 
 this year's title.     

  EA Chicago has also gone to great lengths to fix some of the offensive bunching issues found in 
 last year's game. Forwards and defensemen on the offensive side of the puck are much better about 
 spreading out in the offensive zone, giving you better chances to set up real plays. However, it 
 could be said that sometimes forwards give you almost  too  much space. This is especially noticeable 
 when moving through the neutral zone to cross over into the offensive zone. Typically, unless your 
 line is specifically set to crash the net, your line mates will hang a bit too far back, which 
 often leads to you being all by yourself in the zone for at least a few seconds. Normally this 
 wouldn't be too much of a problem, but thanks to the game's overzealous defensive AI, it does become 
 an issue.  

  No doubt, the defense in NHL 2005 is tough -- almost too tough, actually. Basically, getting a breakaway 
 in this game is a near impossibility on any difficulty but the easiest -- at least until you've spent 
 quite a lot of time trying to master the various deke moves and speed burst timings. If you're 
 up against even a decently rated defensive pairing, you're likely to get knocked flat on your face 
 before you even get within 10 feet of the net, which typically results in a quick turnover. The 
 defensive AI doesn't even seem to really use the poke-check mechanic inside the offensive zone 
 much at all. This is primarily because it much prefers to just lay you out flat on the ice every 
 single time you get anywhere near the goal. While this might seem like it would make a game a penalty-filled 
 affair, it actually doesn't. In fact, on the default settings, penalties almost never get called 
 at all.     "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        NHL 2005 
 Review for PC - Page 2 - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 
 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return 
 true; } if (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  
 var newUri = cTrkPrefix + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 
 (parentId, iTrkId, iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem 
 =  if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  
 if (! parentElem) { return false; } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { 
 return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; 
 imgElem. height = '1';  } return true; }   ON   CNET :  Ladybug 
 iPod speakers    //               GAMES:     GameSpot     GameFAQs     MUSIC:     Last. fm     MP3. com 
     MOVIES:     Metacritic     Movietome     TV:     TV. com                    GameSpot. com    
             Search                               BioShock 2 Exclusive First Look:  We head back 
 to Rapture with...               Spore Galactic Adventures Q&amp; A:  Lead Producer Kip...      
          Starcraft II: Wings of Liberty Battle Report:  Its Zerg...               Mafia II 
 Impressions:  The sequel to the cult-classic 2002...                    home        PC      Xbox 
 360      Wii      PS3      PS2      PSP      DS        community      forums      videos      cheats 
      features      downloads      sports      tech      news            Reviews     Previews   
   Cheats     Answers     New Releases     Top Games     All PC Games     Tech Center          Theme: 
   Light    Dark            Sign In    Create your account    Help    Forgot Password?          
                                                       Add Game       Tag       Print       Email 
       Facebook       Digg                              NHL 2005 Review          

 Make no mistake. NHL 2005 is still a solid game of hockey -- but it shouldn't be your first choice 
 for one.                     After The Fact:  Reviews Revisited        What's this?            
    Update:  Servers Offline    Posted: Nov 5, 2008 4:31 pm PT      Toward the end of 2006, the 
 online service for this game was shut down by EA. &nbsp;               

  The game's overabundance of checking appears courtesy of a fix that the developer added to help 
 improve checking. Last year, one complaint that players voiced involved the fact that most of the 
 checks in the game seemed more like varying degrees of shoves than anything else. Now you can deliver 
 absolutely brutal hip checks and similarly vengeful moves with the right amount of momentum. Of 
 course, the problem with this is that the team on defense always seems to find a way to hit you 
 with almost maximum momentum, which gives you no time to get behind the net or do anything else 
 you might normally do to try to set up a one-timer. This isn't as much of a problem if you're up 
 against a smaller forward or one of the few less-than-tough defensemen out there, but more often 
 than not, you're going to go down. Basically, your best bet is to get as close as you think you 
 can to the net without getting waylaid so that you can throw a hard slap shot at the net and then 
 hope one of your teammates gets in close enough to throw his stick at the possible rebound if the 
 shot doesn't go in immediately. This is not to say that you will do this every time you get into 
 the offensive zone, but you will find yourself doing this a fair amount -- at least early on in your 
 time spent with the game.  

          The defensive AI in NHL 2005 is a lot more likely to knock you squarely to the ice than 
 poke-check you. And that's not necessarily a good thing.     

  What's even crazier about this is that in actuality, you don't even really need to worry about 
 setting up plays to begin with -- at least not on the default difficulty. More often than not, if 
 you time a big slap shot just right -- and if the goalie is anything less than Brodeur-esque in quality -- you'll 
 be able to score at least three or four goals a game. Well, why not just bump up the difficulty 
 then? Simply put, because the medium and hardest difficulty settings are absolutely brutal when 
 it comes to defense. Remember all that checking and getting knocked to the ice on the default setting? 
 Multiply that by at least two for every difficulty notch you increase to, which will eventually 
 bring you to a point where it actually looks like defensemen are being sucked into your player. 
 Essentially, there just isn't a very good balance between difficulty levels. The game isn't impossible, 
 by any means, but the overly check-happy defense does make the game a lot more frustrating than 
 it needs to be -- especially if you're someone who likes to play a more strategic game.  

  With all of that said, however, NHL 2005 is still quite a fun game to play, even if it isn't always 
 especially realistic. The speed of the game is excellently paced, making for a fast and furious 
 game of hockey each time out, and aside from some of the previously mentioned issues, the AI typically 
 behaves very well by reacting accordingly when you actually do manage to get a good play set up. 
 It also manages to react very well to some of the coaching setups you can design, like how you 
 can make each line perform a different kind of offense that ranges from crashing the net to working 
 the puck from behind the net. At least the AI does so once all your forwards decide to finally 
 traipse their ways into the zone. The gameplay, as a whole, is a lot of fun, provided you're willing 
 to accept some of the game's less realistic aspects to just appreciate it for what it is -- a fast, 
 fun game of hockey.  

  In terms of game features, NHL 2005 isn't the deepest game you'll ever find, but it's got its share 
 of modes to keep you busy. This year's dynasty mode is definitely where the most developmental 
 effort has gone. However, in some ways, it's also the least attractive of what NHL 2005 has to 
 offer. Most all of the elements from last year's dynasty mode have made their ways into this year's 
 game, including team upgrades and the ever-popular player morale system. The biggest new addition 
 is essentially  the  factor that drives the whole mode: owner objectives. In the real-life NHL, 
 every team has different goals and objectives. If you're playing for a team like Colorado, ambition 
 and winning a Stanley Cup presents a huge part of what drives your franchise forward. But, if you're 
 on a team like the Chicago Blackhawks, your goals are far more financially driven. So the second 
 it looks like you're not turning a profit, there's hell to pay. NHL 2005 emulates this variation 
 of team goals by ranking each team in three categories: ambition, team, and profit. Ambitious teams 
 want to both make the playoffs and win the cup; team-oriented franchises are loyal to their players 
 and typically stick with the most loyal players, regardless of record or money; and profit-driven 
 teams just want to be in the green at the end of every season, plain and simple.  

  Depending on what kind of team you pick, you'll have one specific objective handed down to you 
 by the team owner at the start of the season. For example, if you pick the Devils, the owner will 
 want you to make it to the conference finals, and if you choose the Blackhawks, your goal will 
 be to obtain the number one draft pick (no matter what) . With each goal, you'll have only two seasons 
 in which to accomplish your mandated tasks. There is most definitely a degree of realism to be 
 found in a setup like this, but in a way, it also sucks a lot of the fun out of the whole process. 
 A big part of the appeal of a dynasty is the chance for a player to take a team that might not 
 be so good and do whatever it takes to take that team to the top. However, the player may just 
 want to take a favorite team and make them dominant, regardless of starting quality. With this 
 mode, you can't really do that -- at least not quickly. If your favorite team happens to be one that 
 wants to aim high, then you're in luck. But, if you happen to be a Blackhawks fan, you may not 
 want to wade through however many seasons it takes to make your profit-hungry owner happy enough 
 to finally let you start making your team legitimately successful. Maybe if this whole aspect were 
 optional, that would be one thing, but, sadly, it isn't.  

          The objectives put forth by team owners in this year's dynasty mode are too restrictive 
 for their own good.     

  Outside of the whole objective system, there are some other additions that bear mentioning. One 
 of these is the new line-chemistry mechanic. Let's face it: There's far more to making a successful 
 line in hockey than just throwing three good players together. In the case of NHL 2005, each forward 
 and defenseman belongs to one of three categories. Forwards consist of scorers, playmakers, and 
 grinders, while defensemen consist of players who are offensive-minded, defensive-minded, or checkers. 
 Ideally, your goal is to try to mix up the lines as much as possible so that each type of player 
 is represented on each line. Mixing a playmaker and a pair of scorers or a scorer and a grinder 
 is a far better solution than sticking three scorers on a line. This system works pretty well, 
 and it definitely forces you to think about how you will fill your roster when free agency and 
 the draft come around. Unfortunately, it can also be kind of a pain as well.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (13 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Seipgam
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 21, 2007 12:33 am PT
Review:  NHL 2005 on PC is one of the best hockey games you can find on PC. The best thing about NHL 05 
 is the MULTI PLAYER! If you have a joystick or a PC controller then your in luck. The multi player 
 is the best part of this game. The game when playing single player is alright but two-player is 
 a lot better. The Gameplay is probably a 7, the sound is 9 because it has great songs on it. The 
 graphics a 6 and overall an alright game. It is good if you have a joystick so be aware of that. 
 But the only thing bad about it is it eventually gets boring after a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamerzVoice
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jul 9, 2007 5:41 pm PT
Review:  Ah, the NHL, the pros of the game known as ice hockey. this game ruins the good name of the NHL. 
 This game is crap. I love the cover, cause I'm a canucks fan, it ruins the good name of the canucks 
 captain. you can play as your favorite team, ( guess which one i chose) and pick an opposing team 
 to play against. when I started, they beat me 2-0, no big deal right? In all the times I played, 
 I only scored 3 goals in 24 games!!!! I almost broke my computer. The controls are super hard and 
 the gameplay is very hard. not a surprise coming from EA sports, duh. the graphics are fine, i'll 
 give it that. Gameplay- crappiest gameplay ever!-2
  
  Graphics- good, sharp and realistic.-9
  
  Sound- uhh... i dunno, I was too busy writing about 
 how crappy this game is- 6
  
  Value- I paid $10, I paid $20 too much, don't buy this game-4
  
  Tilt- 4
  
  I am doing 
 you a favor by telling you not to buy this game ( is it even a game?
  but hey, do what you want, maybe you'll like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drmorgus
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 2, 2007 5:18 pm PT
Review:  I've played the EA Sports NHL Hockey series since it's debut in the early 90's, and if you enjoy 
 hockey like you see on in the Pro's, then this is the PC game for the hockey entheustist. It's 
 got all the checking, hard play, action, and game play like the pros. Of course, you have adjusters 
 to customize the game play to your level of play. Don't beleive the wimps that gave this game a 
 low review for they couldn't play at this level and, obviously, don't understand the sport of hockey. 
 Besides NHL leagues, you can play various other European leagues, which add a distinctive twist 
 to game play.
  If EA Sports would combine the game play of 2005 with the excellent graphics of 2006, then we would 
 have hockey niavana!!!
  NHL 2006 is the best graphics to date, but game play is all about scoring at any level. Goalies 
 slide flat to stop obvious saves, shoot high and you score every time, players rarely check no 
 matter what difficulty level you choose. This is not the case in 2005. The easy level is tough 
 with the default settings and game play gets tougher from there.
  Again, if you enjoy hockey with all it's flair and defense as a priority and not as a wimp console 
 game that's all about scoring, then this is the game for you. Previously, NHL 2002 was a good representive 
 of pro hockey, but I avoided NHK 2003 and 2004 due to the reviews. Obviously, the reviewers don't 
 understand tough gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: canucksfan101
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 26, 2007 2:23 pm PT
Review:  Nhl 2005 is one of the best games i ever played. The music track list is short but the actual tracks 
 are really funt to listen to. Nhl 2005 offers a great gameplay experience and could be addicting. It 
 is the best game in the series yet. I dont know why people didn't like it but i loved the dynasty 
 mode. It is a masterpeice of a game. One thing didn't like though was the commentary. It was real 
 dry and not the best I hav heard. So my advise is to buy the game and play it because it is one 
 of the best games of 2005. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrialRevluc
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 9, 2007 6:15 am PT
Review:  Action from the get-go this game rocks. Being a fan of the EA Sports NHL series since the '97 game, 
 I am not a non-biased reviewer. The series has evolved in both a good way (graphics) and a bad 
 way (control input) to create a love/hate relationship with this reviewer.
  
  The graphics have continued to improve to the point atht you are in the game and the camera angles 
 are nice. It gets confusing while you are follow ing one player with the puck on the ice since 
 you can't see where your mates are in relation to your position. Cues on the sides of the screen 
 do help but where are the other teams players while you blindly pass a shot?
  
  Loading the game on a computer which played NHL 2004 without problems, let me know that something 
 had been changed in the processor and graphic requirements for the game. It was like loading an 
 old 386 game on a pentium, since the action was racing around over Mach speed on the machine. It 
 wasn't until I built my next computer that I was able to enjoy the game at a resonable pace. Emailing 
 techsupport did nothing to answer the question as to why I was having the initial problem.
  
  Mouse men unite! I loved the older NHL games from EA with the ability to play with the mouse, 
 but now there isn't even the option. You must play this game with a gamepad or the keyboard and 
 the key strokes can be quiet annoying if you go that route. If I want to use a game pad, I will 
 play on my Xbox, Gamecube, PS1 or PS2.
  
  If you are a diehard EA Sports fan, GET THIS GAME!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Goliath_unit
Rating: 7.1
Date: Oct 11, 2006 6:53 pm PT
Review:  Canada's most popular sport is without a doubt, hockey. We find it very excting to watch players 
 on ice skate down chasing the puck and body checking each other as fast as they can. And of of 
 the best sports game franchises in some minds are EA Sports NHL hockey games. Many have been great, 
 most notable are '98, 2000, 2002 and 2004. Just how is NHL 2005?
  
  This is a giant step down for EA Sports NHL Hockey franchise. Oh yea, it is a good game, but I've 
 seen better from EA Sports. NHL 2004 from what I heard, seemed like one of the best in the franchise. 
 You'd think that they'd improve on that, but EA didn't
  
  I'll start with the positives. NHL 2005 has great graphics. I love the graphics the company has 
 produced in the last couple of years. The hockey player models are very well done, and look realistic. 
 They have the right formula to make a game with great graphics.
  
  The sound is not good. There are far too little FX sound effects for example. Another thing to 
 complain about is the lack of good broadcasting. There are these bland comments coming from the 
 broadcast booth, and really only explain what's going on in the game. Also, the soundtrack is not 
 my taste. There are no great songs in the game. I like the sound in many sports games, but not 
 this one.
  
  One good new feature is the new wrist shot button. Press and/or hold it, your player will do a 
 wrist shot. This button makes scoring a lot easier.
  
  But is that actually a good thing? I find that NHL 2005 is far too easy. All that you have to do 
 is keep on doing close wrist shots or one timers. There you go! A blowout in the making. And I 
 don't mean by 5 or 6 goals. I have on many occasions scored around 10 goals with only using one 
 timers. Add all those close wrist shots, what a blowout.
  
  There are also some missed features. What about my two favourites: create a player and playoffs? 
 What was EA Sports thinking? Many people love to put themselves in the game, as well as some other 
 make-belief players. But EA Sports completely flopped on that and completely missed it! Also, the 
 playoffs were my favourite feature in the hockey games. It was great to set up the playoffs your 
 own way and make it the way you want. The value of the game is fair. Though it is indeed a fun 
 game, there are also some many things missed. There are not many new features in the game over 
 NHL 2004. Though there are some, none of them are that great.
  
  In conclusion, it is a good hockey game, but if you've got another hockey game for the PS2, stick 
 to that one and not this. The lack of new features in the game, as well as some missed game feature, 
 really dampens the EA Sports NHL franchise. It is indeed a good game, but there are some things 
 missed in the game. This is a giant step down in the NHL franchise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kicken
Rating: 4.7
Date: Jun 20, 2006 2:05 pm PT
Review:  where did EA go wrong? simply: because the gameplay shattered this game, only 2 or 3 things really 
 killed NHL 2005, but they were big things.... first off; the difficulty is not right... I literally 
 just bet Canada playing as the Swiss 10-0 in easy... but in hard I cannot win. Well, I can but 
 with luck, and by luck I mean taking shots from the blue line everytime I come in the zone, because 
 the defense in this game is WAY TOO HARD. and thats a underestimate. and the goalie will let in 
 these impossible shots, when you score 4-5 goals from the blue line in a game.... its not right. 
 EA has been improving every year, but this is a drawback, dont even consider this game... yes it 
 has good graphics, decent sound, but no value because its too hard... and its gameplay could of 
 been a 10/10 if it just could of fixed the defense and the goalies, and I tweaked every single 
 gameplay option I could, spent hours on it, because this game had potential, but it just wasnt 
 meant to be..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CTOCTOCTO
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 30, 2005 9:24 am PT
Review:  NHL 2005 also delivers all the action of the World Cup of Hockey, with International Teams and 
 venues from North America and Europe. In addition to all 30 NHL teams, NHL 2005 includes 39 teams 
 from the Swedish, Finnish and German Elite Leagues, as well as 21 International teams.
  
  Ridiculous gameplay that doesn't even come close to resembling hockey; bizarre franchise mode.
 
  
  Of all things you'd expect out of a sports game, the number one priority, the most vital, is that 
 it needs to be better than the previous version. You can talk about features, tweaks, graphics, 
 or whatever, but if a game isn't as good as the year before, then what's the point? That's the 
 problem with NHL 2005 on the PC. Not only is it not equal to NHL 2004; on nearly every level, it's 
 a step backwards. In the end, there's no reason whatsoever to "upgrade" to this new version, and 
 that's the most damming thing you can say about a sports franchise. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrgab
Rating: 5.8
Date: Dec 2, 2005 9:16 am PT
Review:  Opposing team AI gets within five feet of you in their zone, you are automatically checked and 
 puck taken away EVERY SINGLE TIME!
  So basically makes scoring ridiculously hard. In Dynasty mode, the most I've come close to scoring 
 is 1 to 2 goals a game. In exhibition mode its a bit easier.
  Then theres the AIs offense, checking them is fine till that time where it is impossible to check 
 one particular player and of course that player scores a goal.
  Lastly, for now, where is the create a player? I've looked around and nothing. In all other EA 
 games I have, from madden football to NBA Live 2005 to MVP Baseball 2005, there is that option, 
 but not in NHL 2005. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: montzag
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 2, 2005 8:53 pm PT
Review:  While the graphics may be great for this game, they miss the point. The point was to creat a hockey 
 game that plays realistically like the sport of hockey. Having played the game for a long time, 
 this is no hockey and it's really agravating. They build in dekes that don't work because the computer 
 players are able to 'teleport' in directions they couldn't possibly move on skates let alone feet. 
 Very aggravating. Also, while the computer never poke checks, you can just hold the poke check 
 button and no one can get near you without losing the puck. Typical EA Sports, you can easily exploit 
 the game for your satisfaction. Buy ESPN NHL 2k5, not this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: David_Poulin
Rating: 7.8
Date: Sep 21, 2004 1:29 am PT
Review:  I consider myself as big a hockey fanatic as they come and this year isn't especially a good one 
 for me and my fellow fans. As most Canadians know, the NHL and NHLPA are still trying to figure 
 out how to share their millions while the fans turn to other forms of entertainment. Anyhow, this 
 year's version of EA's NHL series to me feels a lot like the current lock-out in the NHL. It's 
 going to be better in the future (lower ticket prices, better entertainment) but right now, it's 
 not very fun.
  
  EA sports' objective for this year was to improve the presentation of the game and they have delivered. 
 The players and animations are outstanding. The face of most players have actually been modeled 
 in-engine; this gives for some truly jaw-dropping screenshots although you won't notice them much 
 while playing away (actually, when going into replay mode, it doesn't look that good because all 
 the players look like zombies, their faces don't react to what's happening although that's bit 
 too much to ask) . The rest of the players' bodies look very good as well; players who usually tuck 
 in their jerseys in real-life actually do the same in the game (the left side, the front, the right 
 side, the back or the whole thing) . Another interesting graphical feature is that each player's 
 equipment has been replicated to their real-life counterparts' likeness. All this might not sound 
 impressive but it goes a long way to help bring the feeling that each player in the game is unique 
 and not just a copy with a different number on his back.
  
  The problem with all these graphical improvements is that it feels like all the work was put into 
 one region: what happens on the ice. You might think that's all that matters but you get a lot 
 of views of the crowd and the rest of the arenas, and they simply don't fit in with the eye candy 
 of what happens on the rink itself. The rest of the arenas were half-heartedly modeled according 
 to the real ones but sport very low-res textures and models. It also feels like the stadiums aren't 
 as big as they should be. The crowds sport the same low-poly models as last year which is understandable 
 since there are hundreds of them; however, more relation between the on-ice action and their behavior 
 would have been appreciated.
  
  All this attention to the graphics make the sounds of the game feel dated. The commentary is basically 
 the same as last year (for God's sake, EA, switch the commentators to CBC's.) . The in-menu music 
 is filled with the usual punk/alternative one-hit bands. It feels like the only real improvement 
 to the sound aspect is the fact that the sound played whenever the puck hits the post has been 
 upgraded. Granted, it sounds suprisingly very good but it's not enough for a yearly upgrade.
  
  The gameplay of the game is where I was most disapointed. I played my first couple of games 
 at beginner/easy levels and I immediatly felt that while the AI was greatly improved from last 
 year, it felt more like ice football than ice hockey. If the player you are controlling gets close 
 to any player from the opposing team, chances are he'll get flattened to the ice. It's as bad as 
 saying that having the puck makes a player attract hits like a magnet. However, you can do the 
 same thing; hitting the 'hit' key when you are near another player will send him flying and most 
 of the time, you won't get a penalty for it. With all this bad-mouthing the hitting, I must say 
 this: they look awesome. The hip checks look simply bone-crushing and very gratifying when you 
 knock out a quick skater with a big defenseman. All this hitting can be toned down a weebit with 
 the sliders but EA just messed up this year on this front.
  
  All this physical play will make your strategies stick close to shooting the puck as hard as you 
 can as soon as you hit the blue line (before you get creamed) . However, this isn't a bad strategy 
 since you'll end up scoring pretty often by doing exactly that. EA tried to implement a 'screen' 
 element with the goalies where if the goalie has too many obstacles (players) between himself and 
 the puck, he will likely not be able to see the shot coming, therefore unable to make the save 
 (just like in real life although lucky goalies just get hit with the puck most of the time) . However, 
 this feature feels stretched out when you can take pretty much any player out there, take a slapper 
 from 40 feet out and beat the goalie 2/5 times. Where as if you make a one-timer pass across the 
 slot to say, Brett Hull (the best for this sort of attempt) , any goalie will make the save 9/10 
 times. I understand what EA was trying to do with making the goaltender feel more like a real goaltender 
 but not enough tweaking was done (much like the rest of the game) .
  
  Three new major gameplay features are in this year: wrap-arounds, create-open-ice and manual dekes. 
 Wrap arounds are pretty much self-explanatory, you go around the net as fast as you can, hit the 
 'shoot' button and hope to beat the goalie as he goes across the crease to block the opening. Most 
 of the time, this tactic won't work but if you keep on trying, you'll surprise them a couple of 
 times. I have to give kudos to EA for this feature because it is perfectly implemented. Next on 
 the list is the create open ice; this is actually in two parts. The first is the ability to switch 
 control to a player who doesn't have the puck, which enables you to cherry-pick your way across 
 the ice in hopes that a pass reaches you. The other part is where you keep control of the player 
 with the puck but you get another player to set picks for you as you go along the ice (which makes 
 it possible to go end-to-end) . These two features kinda work and are welcomed additions. The last 
 is the ability to control the location of the puck in relation to the player's body with the addition 
 of four keys. This feature sounds pretty cool, but in the heat of the action, you'll rarely find 
 yourself using them and just hit the standard deke button which works just as well.
  
  Well, it's another year and the more things change, the more they stay the same. The game has a 
 couple of new features, some cool improvements but still lacks what it needs to be truly great. 
 This is to be expected out of a team that has only a year to crank out a game but if Visual Concept 
 (the developer behind the apparantly brilliant NHL 2k5) can do it, why can't EA? With a couple 
 of months more into development, this game could have been great; the hopes of a patch to fix all 
 this are non-existant if you know EA like I do. Want to experience the real game in all its glory? 
 Grab your gear and head down to the ice for some good ol' fashioned shiny hockey! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Silv3rSt0rm82
Rating: 6.7
Date: Sep 17, 2004 4:38 am PT
Review:  I have been awaiting NHL 2005 release just to see if EA would put some efforts into it to take 
 ESPN NHL2K5 Face-on and get back on top where they sat for almost 10 years.
  
  To my exact expectations, EA didn't do it any better this year!
  EA's NHL serie just seem to 
 get from bad to worst with the years coming!
  I compared the hype and the satisfaction I got from both Hockey games and SEGA's wins it all! I'll 
 be playing NHL2K5 on XBOX while EA's title will rest on a shelf.
  NHL2K5 left me a good feeling from the very first game I played while I had to play 3-4 games of 
 NHL 2005 to get to find some good points...
  
  I prefered from far ESPN NHL2K4 to NHL 2004 last year, as most did.
  So I expected a big comeback 
 for EA as told that they mostly invested time on gameplay!
  I guess they mostly spent time getting the graphics even better, that's all!
  
  I mean, NHL 
 2005's graphics are AWESOME indeed, but graphics is just a part of a game.
  You gotta get it all right, not just on one point!
  Graphics and Sounds in EA are waaaay ahead 
 of ESPN serie, gotta admitt it!
  (I expected that too)
  
  But come on, things will be even harder for EA this year with the smart move SEGA pulled lowering 
 their MSRP down at 19,95$!
  If you're at the store and get to choose between a game with astonishing graphics, fast paced but 
 irrealistic hockey game with sloppy gameplay and controls @49,95$ or a game that's as real as it 
 gets with smooth controls, with graphics just a tad lower @ 19,95$!?
  I guess the logical pick is easy here!
  
  I think the control still miss some realism.
  I 
 mean come on, you cant just go turning 180 on a dime, going in another direction just as fast, 
 turn so sharply... you don't get the feeling you're on skates.
  In ESPN you gotta do a little wider turns if you don't wanna lose speed.
  You gotta slow down 
 just a bit to catch a pass and when you do a shaper turn you have to get your speed back! When 
 you're stopped, your first 3-4 steps forward won't get you at your peak speed just yet...
  
  So overall I think that NHL 2005 is just what anyone could expect of a Hockey game from EA, 
 Near perfect graphics and physics, Good soundtrack, good interface, online play...
  There's a lot of weaknesses though that kills the game since it's on gameplay and controls (Which 
 are the 2 most important things to give you the feel of hockey!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xelalex24
Rating: 6.6
Date: Sep 16, 2004 3:22 pm PT
Review:  So, at first glance the menus and interface work for me much more than last year. I find things 
 easier, and the whole user interface is much more friendly and crisp. (Side note: I have been a 
 web & graphic designer for UI for the past seven years, and own my own business. So I know a bit 
 more than the average joe about UI) It can always be better, but definitly a step up from last 
 year crapy interface.
  
  Gameplay: I like the gameplay so far. The open ice is a good feature. Now, the gameplay is not 
 amazing compared to last year, but a bit better than last year.
  
  Dynasty: Much better than last year because of the UI, but no comparison with Madden dynasty mode. 
 No All Star Game, that is BS. Maybe, they will listen to us for NHL2340 and include the all star 
 competition.
  
  Biggest Issue with the game... LACK OF CUSTIMIZATION. The create a team is lame, nothing compared 
 to Madden or the old FIfa games. No CAP. No way to edit players. There is so much that fans have 
 asked for that is not in the game regarding custimization.
  
  So, at the end, the game is not bad, but I feel that because of the lack of customization, I will 
 get bored with it after two to three weeks. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
