-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: NHL 2000
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sports/nhl2000/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 20, 1999
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9
Critic Score: 8.2, 24 Review (s)
User Score: 8.5, 274 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Sports
Developer: EA Canada
Genre: Ice Hockey Sim
Date:     Aug 31, 1999
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
NHL 2000 is virtual hockey at its finest. 

 Most gamers wait with bated breath for the latest, greatest shooters and real-time strategy games 
 every fall - but not me. Sure, I love a good deathmatch as much as the next guy, but when September 
 rolls around, the one game I want to play more than any other is hockey. I've been devoted to EA 
 Sports' NHL Hockey series since I played the original on my old Sega Genesis. Of course, as a hard-core 
 hockey fan I'm also one of the series' harshest critics, eternally hoping that EA will make the 
 game more realistic and challenging. Thankfully, this year EA Sports came closer than ever to achieving 
 the perfect balance between realistic gameplay and graphic appeal. Sure, NHL 2000 has its flaws, 
 but most of these are overshadowed by the game's many strengths. Simply put, NHL 2000 is virtual 
 hockey at its finest.  

 At first glance, NHL 2000 looks like the same game EA shipped last year, with a handful of visual 
 enhancements. Rest assured that this is not the case: Among the many under-the-hood changes, EA 
 Sports finally changed the way the game clock works. Now, instead of offering 5-, 10-, or 20-minute 
 periods, the game always simulates a 20-minute period with an acceleration modifier that lets it 
 last anywhere from 5 to 20 minutes of real time. This has two significant results: First, the game 
 now computes goalies' statistics correctly. Second, the computer-simulated league games now generate 
 realistic scores and statistics, instead of the low-scoring tallies of previous versions. This 
 means that your league leader boards will now include player stats from computer-controlled teams, 
 instead of just those from your own high-scoring team.  

 More obvious changes to NHL 2000 include even more lifelike computer-controlled players and strategies, 
 which are built upon NHL 99's marked AI improvements. While it may not be as true to life as Radical's 
 PowerPlay series, the gameplay in NHL 2000 is by far the most realistic of any game in the series. 
 This time, AI players forecheck more aggressively and get back into a good defensive position after 
 a turnover. Additionally, players will get caught out of position when they go for an ill-timed 
 body check or steal, opening up more breakaway and odd-man rush opportunities. The game also offers 
 more coaching strategies, including a "crash the net" option. New training scenarios can help you 
 figure out how to skate, shoot, and check as well as hit one-timer shots and give-and-go passes. 

 Speaking of one-timers, they actually work in NHL 2000. Nothing was more frustrating in NHL 99 than 
 setting up a perfect two-on-one play, dishing the puck to a wide-open winger, and seeing him smash 
 a one-time slap shot into the goalie's chest. This year, if your guy really is in a good position 
 and shoots the puck cleanly, you will score. You'll find that penalty shots (which are a little 
 less common this year) and breakaways are easier to score with as well. You may even tally a goal 
 or two on plain old shots from the point. In fact, the only scoring method that seems to be toned 
 down is deflections, which were way too easy and automated in NHL 99. Deflections aside, however, 
 "super goalies" appear to be a thing of the past, which means that your scoring totals should go 
 way up with NHL 2000. But you won't be the only one scoring.  

 The computer opponents in NHL 2000 are craftier, quicker, and more skilled than in previous versions. 
 While NHL 99 and its predecessors use a basic "body check/get the puck/shoot" algorithm for AI-controlled 
 teams, NHL 2000 uses more of a "shoot/shoot/shoot" method of challenging you. And though I occasionally 
 got outshot by the computer in NHL 99, I found that I was almost always being outshot and out-checked 
 by the AI in NHL 2000 - usually at a two-to-one ratio in both cases. This is the one area where 
 NHL 2000 remains unrealistic. Shot totals are still ridiculously high, but at least now a more 
 realistic number of those shots will actually go in the net. In fact, the computer scores a lot 
 of goals now - occasionally in a frustrating "that damn AI is cheating" manner. Long-range blue-line 
 shots tend to get past your goalie with alarming frequency, typically before you can even see your 
 goalie on the screen. But this sort of thing happens all the time in real hockey, so it's actually 
 good to see in NHL 2000.  

 As a result, the game is more difficult than NHL 99 but less frustrating at the same time. True 
 hard-core players will begin to wallop the computer with regularity after 20 to 30 games, even 
 on the hardest difficulty setting, but very few sports games have ever been able to prevent this 
 type of mastery. Also, if you choose to play the game with a bad team (my beloved Islanders, for 
 example) , you'll find yourself sorely ill-equipped against AI-controlled powerhouses like Colorado, 
 Dallas, and Detroit.  

 Of course, you can ditch the real teams altogether and use the game's new (and long overdue) fantasy 
 draft feature. This lets you build a custom team from scratch by drafting against the computer. 
 The draft is flawed - Adam Deadmarsh and Bryan Berard are almost always drafted before Jaromir 
 Jagr, Paul Kariya, and Teemu Selanne - but it does let you customize the gameplay. Similarly, the 
 career mode has been enhanced in NHL 2000 so that you can now draft rookies before each season, 
 while aging players will retire and move on via free agency.  

 Another significant new feature is the Internet multiplayer support, complete with an EA-maintained 
 lobby system. It's not the slickest online gaming system, but it is convenient for finding opponents. 
 The gameplay can be choppy, but it does work, and the game host can choose client-server or peer-to-peer 
 connections.  

 But no matter how you play it, NHL 2000 is simply beautiful. New animations for shots, checks, and 
 goalie saves are augmented by the new face-mapping technique that makes every NHL player look exactly 
 like his real-life counterpart. Better yet, you can even import a picture of yourself and have 
 it mapped onto a custom player of your own creation.  

 The audio effects in NHL 2000 are as good as ever, with excellent lifelike sounds for every body 
 check, shot, and arena noise imaginable. The game even includes a library of prerecorded names 
 so that your custom players can finally get their due during play-by-play and PA announcements. 
 And even though the play-by-play still suffers from the same out-of-sync problems of previous versions, 
 it is considerably more accurate than it was in NHL 99. Also, EA finally brought in decent color 
 commentary talent in the form of ESPN's Bill Clement.  

 If NHL 2000 deserves to be criticized for anything, it would have to be for the unusually high number 
 of injuries that now take place during an average game. In a single period of my first season game, 
 I lost four players for two to three weeks each, while two guys from the computer team went down. 
 You can turn the injury feature off, but it would be better to use a slider bar for injury frequency, 
 like the penalty and fighting frequency options already in place. The only good thing about the 
 injuries is that they force you to manage your roster, by trading for new talent and juggling lines 
 to bolster an injury-riddled squad.  

 Also, the game's computer-arbitrated trading system has a flaw that lets you upgrade your team while 
 seriously deteriorating the talent of other squads. Basically, you can trade any player for any 
 other player whose overall skill value is one to three points higher. Using this loophole, I was 
 able to turn the Islanders' Eric Cairns (rated a 56) into Jaromir Jagr (rated a 100) using a sequence 
 of 15 trades. I even spent an hour doing this for the entire Atlanta Thrasher team and created 
 a squad where no player was rated at less than 80. Fortunately, only complete hockey dorks would 
 waste so much time exploiting this problem.  

 Overall, NHL 2000 is the best hockey game EA Sports has ever produced. Despite the inflated shot 
 totals and the not-quite-perfect draft, career, and trading features, this is as good as it gets 
 in PC hockey games. It's definitely worth the upgrade for NHL 98 and NHL 99 users, and those new 
 to the series will surely find it worth the investment.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (6 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: agordplayer
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 30, 2008 10:48 am PT
Review:  For a Old Game it is way better than the NHL games today. Graphics may be bad but this game is 
 great. This is still not my favorite NHL game but I still like it. Spent at least 20-40 hours of 
 Play Time. It gives a excellent choices of teams and features. I recommend this game to all Hockey 
 fans. Not much else to say about this game.
  
  
  For a Old Game it is way better than the NHL games today. Graphics may be bad but this game is 
 great. This is still not my favorite NHL game but I still like it. Spent at least 20-40 hours of 
 Play Time. It gives a excellent choices of teams and features. I recommend this game to all Hockey 
 fans. Not much else to say about this game.
  
  
  
  For a Old Game it is way better than the NHL games today. Graphics may be bad but this game is 
 great. This is still not my favorite NHL game but I still like it. Spent at least 20-40 hours of 
 Play Time. It gives a excellent choices of teams and features. I recommend this game to all Hockey 
 fans. Not much else to say about this game.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: easteast
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 23, 2006 3:20 pm PT
Review:  This is definetly a classic game. It should be in the history books. I do like the gameplay somewhat, 
 but it could be a little bit better. The fighting is totally messed up. I had no clue what I was 
 doing during every fight in the game. The overall violence wasn't very good in the game, or when 
 you were slamming the keyboard in frustration. This game, even on the easiest setting, isn't very 
 easy. It isn't hard to score a goal, but it's pretty hard to traverse around the various menus 
 and game modes. I really don't know what more to say about the game. That's just it. I have said 
 all I can about the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bgres077
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 12, 2006 9:23 am PT
Review:  NHL 2000 will keep you playing with it's deep career mode. You can now trade players, participate 
 in the NHL draft, sign free agents, trade players, create your own franchise, and even create your 
 own players. Nothing is more exciting than seeing yourself out on the ice scoring your third goal 
 of a game for a hat-trick. 
  
  Throughout the season in career mode depending on how well your players perform they are awarded 
 points and as a result their statistics go up. This is nice because you can develop your players 
 from mediocre-level players into superstars. One glitch in this game is the ability to trade for 
 a player that is one point above the player that you are giving up. If you keep doing this you 
 will eventually be able to get a level 95 player by giving up a level 70 player. This takes time 
 to do, but if you want to become a powerhouse very quickly this is the way to do it.
  
  The visuals and sound are nothing spectacular by todays standards but were fine at the time of 
 release.
  
  The gameplay in NHL 2000 is outstanding. You have complete control over your players so you can 
 make a monster hit on opponents at almost any time. You can also increase the power on your shots 
 which will help you score more goals. One trick to scoring goals is to skate behind the goal, and 
 take a wrap-around shot. This will work about 40% of the time. With that being said, NHL 2000 is 
 a nice hockey game worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CTOCTOCTO
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 30, 2005 9:08 am PT
Review:  The choices are endless 
  
  One of the best features of NHL 2000 is the numerous options available for different modes of game 
 play. I dont have room to go into all of these options here, but will focus on one of the better 
 modes of game play that has been added: the career mode. The career mode allows you to play through 
 ten NHL seasons (short, medium or long seasons are available) and strengthen your team through 
 trades, rookie drafts and free agency, while trying to deal with injuries, illness, retirement 
 and losing your own players to free agency. One of the best parts of the career mode is that after 
 each season the attributes of the various players on your team will either increase or decrease 
 depending on how well they performed over the season. This fluctuation in player skills provides 
 a realistic feel to the game, as you will find yourself depending on different players throughout 
 the season depending on who is hot. I really enjoyed playing through each season and watching my 
 team get better with each year. I havent won the cup yet, but trust me; it is going to happen. 
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Everclearules
Rating: 6.1
Date: Apr 19, 2005 6:42 pm PT
Review:  The graphics are quite good, I don't have anything else to say about it though, good or bad. There's 
 really nothing spectacular about them, nor anything to complain about. The same for the sound. 
 Although with the sound you can edit what songs you want, and even add your own. However, the announcers 
 can sometimes be humerous to downright annoying. 
  
  EA just can't make a hockey game. Well, I should rephrase that. They can make a hockey game, just 
 not a good one. EA has a long line of hockey games that just are not hockey. They're all arcade-like. 
 High scoring and hard hitting. In other words, a game for those who just watch the highlights of 
 a hockey game yet never have actually seen or played a full game. Hockey is supposed to be a defensive 
 game, a thinking game, not just taking random shots at the net.
  
  Unfortunantly, that's what NHL 2000, and just about all other EA hockey games, come down to. The 
 fact is, it's easy to score, too easy. On average and on the hardest difficulty, I was scoring 
 20+ goals a game with periods lasting only 10 minutes without even really trying. Trying, and with 
 periods at 20 minutes, I was scoring around 70 goals a game. What's wrong with that? There isn't 
 a challenge! In real hockey it's a constant struggle just to get in a position to score. Watching 
 the last seconds count down knowing you still need to make a goal to get into overtime. Making 
 your shots count since you know you can't just take 50 shots a game.
  
  You won't find any of that in NHL 2000. You'll find a game where it all depends on you since the 
 amount of hitting in this game is insane. You might try to set up a one timer just to find out 
 all four of your other teamates are lying on the ground since they were all just checked. Unfortunantly, 
 that's not an exaggeration either. That's the sad and pathetic truth. You'll always be getting 
 checked which completely eliminates all strategy what-so-ever. 
  
  The amount of checking also ruins powerplays. Powerplays in real hockey consist of positioning 
 your players so they can pass to each other hoping to catch one of the opposing team, who are trying 
 to block shooting lanes, out of position. However, the AI will just check all your players so playing 
 powerplays realisticaly is out of the question. There's also the fact that the shorthanded team's 
 players will just surround the goalie making it impossible to shoot since the puck will just hit 
 them and they'll take it away. On the other hand, it's incredibly easy to score shorthanded since 
 the other team will be in power play mode and defending their own goal isn't on the top of their 
 priority list.
  
  As I've said, scoring just devolves into shooting randomly at the net since it has just about as 
 much chance of scoring as everything else. A good chance. The computer player will often take shots 
 at you from behind the blue line and score, alot. It makes it incredibly hard to get shut outs 
 since there just isn't any skill involved in scoring, and so little you can do defensively. You 
 wouldn't believe how annoying it is to play 30 minutes perfectly, up 20-0, only to have the computer 
 take a random shot that would never go in in the real NHL, but manages to in this game.
  
  At first I loved this game since I didn't really know about hockey. Then I got into it, watched 
 it on TV, started playing a little and now just can't stand this game anymore. If you want a realistic 
 hockey game, avoid EA like they're the plague (and I'm almost convinced that they are) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andch17
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 15, 2005 11:51 pm PT
Review:  NHL 2000 isnt just like any other hockey game, unlike the new NHL games (NHL 2004, NHL 2005 etc) , 
 NHL 2000 doesnt offer boring defence, it offers lots of goals, hits, and most importantly fun. 
 
  
  NHL 2000 is one of the best hockey games ever made in my opinion. This game is extremilly fun, 
 when you play NHL 2000 you get alot of goals, breakaways, fights, hilarous hits (like after the 
 whistle has been blown he hammer a guy) and most importantly fun. This game has great gameplay 
 and simply if you like hockey games for the PC then you have to atleast try out NHL 2000. The value 
 for this game is great, you get tons of cool modes to play on with your favorite NHL team, and 
 you get online play which console NHL games arent able to offer. My favorite feature is the create 
 player feature, you can create pratically a whole team for yourself and have tons of fun.
  
  The sound in NHL 2000 isn't as good as it could've been. The commentating in NHL 2000 is just 
 the same old people and they same the same thing year after year after year. And the game doesnt 
 really have a soundtrack theres just menu music that you can listen to, but you'll probably wont 
 be on the menu that often cause you'll be playing as your favorite team kicking your most hated 
 teams butts off the ice. The graphics are pretty good in this game all of the players look pretty 
 realistic although they do have square heads but that doesnt make NHL 2000 a bad game doesn it?
 
  
  After all said and done NHL 2000 is definatly worth the money and for people who have been looking 
 for a great NHL game to play on the PC. Quit your looking because NHL 2000 is that game you have 
 been waiting for.
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
