-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: NHL 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sports/nhl2003/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct  9, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.4
Critic Score: 7.8, 14 Review (s)
User Score: 8.0, 302 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Sports
Genre: Ice Hockey Sim
Date:     Sep 30, 2002
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
If you've never played NHL and consider yourself even a casual hockey or sports fan, you owe it 
 to yourself to get the latest game in one of the finest computer sports franchises of all time. 
 

 There was a time when there were a lot more PC hockey games to choose from -- when you could pick 
 a serious simulation, an action-packed, arcade-style game, or even a text-based strategy game. 
 Yet even a half-dozen years ago, one game stood head and shoulders above all the contenders. That 
 game was EA Sports' NHL Hockey. Skillfully developed north of the border by hockey-crazed Canadians, 
 NHL grew from its humble 2D beginnings to become so dominant in the world of computer hockey that 
 it's now the  only  way to get a good game of hockey going on your PC. NHL 2003 is the latest edition 
 in this series, and it continues a long-standing tradition by offering just enough in the way of 
 improvements to warrant at least a cursory glance from past customers. If you've never played NHL 
 and consider yourself even a casual hockey or sports fan, you owe it to yourself to get the latest 
 game in one of the finest computer sports franchises of all time. However, if you're a veteran 
 player back for another go, you might want to consider putting away those rose-colored glasses 
 and waiting for the inevitable NHL 2004.           When Brett Hull lets loose with his typical 
 cannonading drive, chances are the puck finds the back of the net.    

 Some would argue that EA Sports' NHL series has risen to such prominence due to its impressive television-style 
 presentation, but serious players know that underneath all the gloss lies a sophisticated gameplay 
 engine that delivers an action-packed take on the world's iciest sport. Unfortunately, for all 
 its strength and potential, the series' artificial intelligence has traditionally never been especially 
 realistic. For NHL 2003, EA has improved some areas and left others untouched.   

  In the latest game, goaltender animations and skills have undergone a serious face-lift. Now, goalies 
 leap and lunge at difficult shots and loose pucks. They'll venture farther from their net and rifle 
 passes to their teammates even when a forechecker sits between them and their target. Fans of the 
 forward's best friend, the deke, will certainly appreciate the game's all-new "dynamic deke control" 
 option, with which they can pull off a broad range of automatic or manually controlled sleight-of-hand 
 maneuvers. And desktop coaches will enjoy instituting individual offensive and defensive strategies 
 for  each  of their five-on-five, power-play, and penalty-kill units.   

  Veteran NHL fans will be glad that EA has made sure that NHL 2003's hockey games don't always seem 
 like they have a predetermined winner as they have in previous games. You'll no longer be forced 
 to watch your team lose even as they've outshot their opponents by a 4-to-1 margin and completely 
 dominated every facet of the match. Having said that, NHL 2003, like its forebears, does exercise 
 an unwarranted amount of control over several aspects of the game. Players in the real National 
 Hockey League don't fire the puck over the crossbar when perched just 5 feet from a wide-open net, 
 but in this game they might -- if the game decides to keep the score tight.   

  NHL once again lets you engage in various forms of pure post-whistle violence, leveling your enemies 
 with unexpected, unprovoked body checks when you should be playing fair and square. Although this 
 extracurricular activity is great for a few laughs, EA Sports has somehow allowed players to incur 
 real injuries from such altercations, which doesn't seem right, considering the way fights have 
 been handled in previous games.   

  Post-whistle shenanigans aren't the only oddities you'll find. Players will, on occasion, overskate 
 the puck for no apparent reason, even while traveling at a walking pace. AI-controlled skaters 
 will sometimes mysteriously adhere to the boards and shuffle their way awkwardly down the ice. 
 Much of the clutching and grabbing hindering the real-life National Hockey League continues to 
 remain in its licensed game as well, even though NHL president Gary Bettman has sworn to eradicate 
 such tedious strategies this season. Furthermore, the game doesn't reflect recent player movements. 
 For the first time in recent memory, the NHL series seems behind the times: For instance, NHL 2003 
 neglects to shift guys like Andrew Cassels from his former team, the Vancouver Canucks, to his 
 new digs in Columbus.   

  And that's not all. If you find yourself in a face-off situation just outside the blue line, there's 
 a very good chance someone on your squad will jump offside before you have an opportunity to advance 
 the puck. If you find yourself shooting on an empty net from outside the offensive zone, your oblivious 
 player will simply lob the biscuit into the corner rather than fire it at the unguarded cage. It's 
 this kind of situational unawareness that seriously infringes on NHL's credibility. Simply put, 
 players don't often react in accordance with the current circumstances. This is not the case with 
 EA's FIFA soccer series, where players actually play differently depending on the current score 
 and the remaining time left in the game.   

  NHL 2003's depiction of fatigue is no less curious. Granted, players noticeably drag their feet 
 or drop their skill level when weary, yet nobody seems perceptibly less mobile after incurring 
 a series of big hits. The infamously little and brittle Saku Koivu can take several crushing smacks 
 on one memorable shift, yet continues to burn along at his typical hearty clip, none the worse 
 for wear. All the above changes drastically, however, if the game decides it's time for an injury 
 and spirits you off the ice and into the dressing room.           Although NHL's in-close cameras 
 are pretty, you're best advised to play through an overhead view to get a good read of the ice. 
     

 In a visual sense, NHL Hockey continues to offer one of the finest depictions of professional sports 
 found anywhere in computer gaming. Sadly, those dazzling introductory sequences of yesteryear have 
 been swapped with somewhat uninteresting footage of various real-life NHL players shamelessly plugging 
 EA's latest sports product. Nevertheless, the game is otherwise so beautifully presented that even 
 a real-life television broadcast would be hard-pressed to look as good.   

  Off the ice, the development team has fashioned a substantially smoother menu system whereby all 
 pertinent information is accessed from a single interface and the many mini-windows that lie within. 
 As opposed to many recent games, which seem to be moving inexorably to clunky console menu formats, 
 the tight, relatively sophisticated appearance of NHL's pre- and postgame interface is welcome 
 indeed.    

 The game's interface is both useful and deep, too. In NHL 2003, like in the previous iteration, 
 you can adjust or alter practically any parameter, rule, and display option. If you don't like 
 the sight of two grown men smacking each other about -- fighting is thankfully far shorter but no 
 less nonsensical than it was in NHL 2002 -- you can simply decrease the frequency of fisticuffs or 
 switch if off altogether. You can concoct your own custom-created players, set their skill level 
 as high or as low as you want, and even attach breathe-right strips on their tiny noses. Playing 
 variants include quick game, playoff, international (with a fully stocked crew of international 
 teams) , and oodles of multiplayer opportunities, which we'll get into later. You can no longer 
 toggle between an arcade or simulation mode, nor can you hone your skills in a practice or training 
 facility. EA should seriously consider reinstituting the latter for the next installment.      
      In NHL 2003, goaltenders react to the puck better than ever. Here, Patrick Roy follows the 
 bouncing puck.     

 When you enter an NHL 2003 rink, you'll watch your players saunter out from their dressing rooms 
 and onto the ice, bathed in spotlights and the soft glow of pregame mood lighting. Apart from accurate 
 faces, accurate body types, accurate uniforms (including an optional "inaugural" uniform for each 
 team) , each player's animation is startlingly lifelike. When the big lights do come up, the game 
 offers long, loving shots of a packed arena, complete with all the heightened trappings of a real-life 
 playoff contest. Subsequently, you're treated to various animated clips depicting all manner of 
 brazen violence, presumably culled from the last time these teams met. The crowd roars its enthusiasm 
 and perhaps does the wave, the players head for their respective benches, and the game is on.  

  Much has been said about the stunningly high quality of NHL's player models and animations, so 
 a detailed explanation probably isn't necessary at this stage. Suffice to say that for this version, 
 players move their lips and often alter their facial expressions to suit the circumstances. They'll 
 track the puck with their head movements and look upward when the puck is lofted above them. After 
 a goal, they'll mob the scorer rather than standing about or celebrating individually as they did 
 in prior editions. Even during play stoppages, players generally do what real players do, whether 
 that involves a complaint to the referee, a toss of the water bottle at the bench, a simple quick 
 conversation with a teammate, or a heated exchange with an opponent. Although such between-play 
 animations are noticeably more prevalent than they were in NHL 2002 and therefore enhance the general 
 ambience, they also become repetitious after a while.   

  When NHL 2003 players crash into the protective Plexiglas surrounding the rink, they may shatter 
 it, spraying debris over nearby spectators and forcing the linesmen into clean-up duty. When a 
 new period begins and you find yourself facing the opposite direction than in the previous period, 
 you can hit the Tab key and swap perspectives. Unfortunately, we had trouble accessing NHL's always-outstanding 
 replay component. It appears that the game's replay option is simply unavailable following a whistle 
 until you've lined up for the next face-off.   

  As spectacular as NHL's graphics have customarily been, its sound traditionally hasn't been far 
 behind. For the 2003 edition, EA has once again created an engaging audio landscape. During gameplay, 
 you're serenaded with the usual impressive range of rink sounds -- reverberating puck and stick slaps 
 and bounces, skate swooshes, body check crunches, and the like -- but now they seem to emanate from 
 all around you. Even with a two-speaker setup, you'll likely find EA's latest experiments with 
 reverb, echo, and positional placement to be totally convincing.   

  Back for another stint in the broadcaster's booth is respected Vancouver Canucks play-by-play stalwart 
 Jim Hughson, who delivers his usual upbeat descriptions and insights with trademark flair and enthusiasm. 
 Tagging along with Hughson once again is the very funny and extraordinarily knowledgeable Canadian 
 sportscaster Don Taylor. But Taylor, for some reason, who either kept you in stitches or annoyed 
 you with his truly bizarre witticisms and color commentary in NHL 2002, seems far less amusing 
 and far more irksome this time around. Now, his speech seems forced, more juvenile, and repetitive. 
 Hampered by a smaller word count and a tiresome EA-formulated shtick, this is not the Don Taylor 
 most Canadian sports fans hold in such high regard.   

  For those who can't have their hockey without massive doses of popular music, NHL 2003 succeeds. 
 Not only does the latest NHL feature some of today's most trendy rock artists (including Jimmy 
 Eat World, Gob, and Default) , but it also graphically displays the song and artist currently playing. 
 Even during the game, EA's new Sports Trax will bombard you with tunes such as Papa Roach's "She 
 Loves Me Not." Fortunately, if you want to play hockey without all the pop music, the game has 
 an option to simply switch off the music so that you can focus on what's actually happening on 
 the ice. If you pay particular attention to the improved crowd effects, you'll see that they react 
 intelligently to such events as offside calls and intentional icings.   

  And NHL 2003's multiplayer has a lot to it. On a single computer, the game supports up to six separate 
 players. Modem, network, and Internet games can handle 12 humans, one for each player on the ice. 
 But it's EA Sports' Online service that really steals the show. The service lets you source opponents 
 of equal ability, join in an ongoing club tournament, or create a custom team and become involved 
 in the ultrarealistic EA Elite, wherein your squad is actually impacted by real-life NHL events. 
           Some visual anomalies remain in the NHL series. Here, an innocent goaltender gets a stick 
 through his chest.     

 We took EA Sports Online for a test drive on a cable-modem connection and quickly located plenty 
 of fans who were more than happy to teach us the fine art of losing. Our teams chosen and the parameters 
 set, we headed to the ice and were summarily dismantled -- but not before we realized once again 
 that online gaming remains plagued by frame rate problems. In fairness, the game is often quite 
 playable, but it can alternately turn into a slide show or suddenly hurtle players across the ice 
 as though they had jetpacks strapped to their little backs.   

  In typical EA Sports fashion, the newest NHL is an improved but not essential upgrade. If money 
 is no object or if you're particularly drawn to one of its new perks, you should by all means take 
 the plunge with NHL 2003. But if you already own last year's NHL and aren't made of money, you 
 may want to give it some thought.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (8 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: youtack
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 15, 2007 11:56 am PT
Review:  The NHL series really shows you what it's like to play hockey. This game is no exception. First 
 off this game has solid graphics and presentation is excellent. I would definitly recommend this 
 game for a sports video game collectors collection. The commntary is sort of funny and I think 
 that the plays are pretty realistic. However when your trying to poke check a puck it usually ends 
 up that yopur player tries to hook the player or gose on one knee on the ice. This can be good 
 for when your blocking shots but not poke checking. The dynasty mode and playoffs mode are great, 
 and you will definitly spend a lot of time with this game. Overall this game is a pretty good ice 
 hockey game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alpowerfull
Rating: 6.3
Date: Dec 15, 2006 9:44 pm PT
Review:  NHL 2003 has good graphics, considering when it was made, but since I'm only writing this reveiw 
 now, I'm giving 6/10 for graphics. Alot of effort is put into making the user feel like he/she 
 is actually in a real hockey game with the quarky announsers, organ playing hockey toons, and the 
 man that says things like Would the owner of a such-and-such please turn off their headlights, 
 thank you in the far background just to make it feel realistic. The new way to use the C stick 
 to deak out players makes the game feel more in control of where the puck is, instead of just pushin 
 Y to do an auto-deak. The cut scene before each game could use more variety instead of the same 
 players, doing the same things, but with different jursies. (excuse my terrible spelling) Mediocre 
 replay value, and the card system is pretty nice touch. One thing I really disliked was no option 
 to just to a shoot-out to put those deaking skills to good use. The only possible way to do that 
 is too set the tied-game setting to shoot-out and make sure you tie the game against the computer. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jpgrant91
Rating: 1.1
Date: May 20, 2006 3:43 pm PT
Review:  If you have half a brain and wont recognize that every single pre game video, deke, save, shot, 
 check, ect. are EXACTLY the same thing over and over again with no real challenge to accomplish 
 any one of them then maybe you will find this game good. Even in this case, you should soon realize 
 that this game has no depth. The never ending boredom of Dynasty mode with yearly drafts consisting 
 of one good player and 500 mediocre ones EVERY SINGLE YEAR. The terrible AI skill level makes it 
 seem like a 6th grader in computer class programed it. DO NOT EVEN PLAY THIS GAME, NEVER MIND BUY 
 IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brunogodoi
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 25, 2006 12:48 pm PT
Review:  Patinar, lanar, correr e chutar. Este no  apenas um jogo,  NHL,  Hockey,  esporte de primeira. 
 E o taco est em suas mos!
  
  Em NHL 2003 o gamer tem a chance de atuar na maior liga profissional do mundo quando o assunto 
  Hockey, a norte-americana. E pode sair na frente com grandes times como o Anahein Mighty Ducks, 
 Philadephia, Ney York, e tantos outos grandes selecionados da liga.
  
  Tem sob seu controle todas as estrelas, e aproveite para no draft fazer trocas e tentar melhor 
 o seu time. Monte suas linhas de defesa e ataque, para que no momento certo a deciso do titulo 
 parta de suas tacadas a gol.
  
  Mas se voc quer entrar pra liga, acesse a rea de criao de jogadores e entre para o time. Aqui 
 voc comanda.
  
  NHL 2003  um dos melhores games de Hockey j lanados, mantendo a supremacia da EA em games desse 
 gnero, que vem desde o saudoso NHL 95 (que eu jogava no Genesis/Mega Drive) , e que trs a cada 
 novo ano mais e mais recursos para o jogo.
  
  Ah, se voc gosta de partir para o brao, se prepare, lutar, brigar, chutar e comemorar prepare 
 os dedos, joypad na mo e mo no peito para o hino nacional. NHL comea aqui. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CTOCTOCTO
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 29, 2005 1:07 pm PT
Review:  What do you want out of a hockey game? If you're looking for a moderately realistic sports simulation, 
 a la Madden NFL 2003, odds are you'll be disappointed in NHL 2003. On the other hand, if you simply 
 want to run-and-gun up and down the ice, focusing mainly on big hits, 100 MPH slapshots, loose 
 defense, and one-on-one confrontations with the goalie, then NHL 2003 is the gold standard. But 
 even so, a few AI problems keep it from reaching expectations. 
  
  While NHL 2003 is attractive, the engine is showing its age. For the series to take the next step 
 in terms of realism, an entirely new life-like physics model needs to be put in place. Until that 
 happens, many of the problems in terms of AI, control, puck, and player reactions will remain intact. 
 
  
  If you're a diehard fan of this series, there is a lot to like here. It plays a brand of hockey 
 that EA Sports has perfected over the years. The multiplayer aspects are superb, but there comes 
 a time when offering up the same style of play with the same old complaints isn't enough to warrant 
 another $40 -- and that time is rapidly approaching.  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hrockafeller
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 29, 2005 4:31 pm PT
Review:  NHL 2003 isn't a bad game, it's just that there are better versions. The only thing that 2003 has 
 over 2004 or 2005 is that it has an amazing soundtrack (the best soundtrack in any game I have 
 ever played) . It's gameplay gets old (there is way too much scoring) and it's dynasty mode is AWFUL 
 (it's random if a free agent willjoin your team or not and sometimes your star players leave because 
 of this) , but it's fun to play every once in a while just because you can run up the score big 
 time (I mean 30-50 goal games) . If you can get on the cheap and want an arcadey game, then pick 
 it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Everclearules
Rating: 4.8
Date: Feb 28, 2005 9:59 pm PT
Review:  When I bought this game (luckily only for 10 dollars) , I was pormised a 'realistic' hockey experience. 
 As you can probably guess by my tone, it wasn't anywhere close to 'realistic'. 
  
  Whenever I played hockey, I was always the goalie; that's why I enjoy defensive hockey games. I 
 was extremely dissapointed in the fact that this game had next to no defense whatsoever. The computer 
 could always slip right by me whenever I tried to check them, about all I could do was attempt 
 to steal the puck and pray my goalie wouldn't give up 10 rebounds THIS time... I would have grabbed 
 my own rebound, but grabbing a loose puck was like pulling teeth in this game, you had to be RIGHT 
 ON the puck to take control of it. 
  
  Offense was terrible at best, normally a pass from one side of the goalie and a one time from the 
 other side would mean your team would be up another goal, but no, not in NHL 2003. Somehow the 
 goalie goes from lying on the ground to the other side to make an 'amazing' save in the blink of 
 an eye, literally... well the opposing goalie did anyways. 
  
  Now as for AI... this is possibly the worst thing about the game. When one of your teamates goes 
 after the puck, they'll skate in circles around it, which ends up with the opposing team getting 
 the puck back and scoring. Or when one of your computer controlled players has a break away (If 
 your spectating or locked onto one player) they'll wait to long to deke, run into the goalie and 
 he takes the puck away. On defense, about all your teamates do is watch the opposing team take 
 shots at your goalie... 
  
  I could go on, but this is bringing back too many bad memories about this game. I'm not buying 
 anymore EA sports hockey games... that's for sure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LuDaDJ
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 13, 2005 6:12 am PT
Review:  For years, EA Sports' long running NHL series has been the only way to get a good game of PC hockey. 
 The gameplay, along with the TV like presentation, have defined the NHL franchise, and cemented 
 EA's hold on the PC hockey genre. Things haven't changed with the 2003 edition, which doesn't offer 
 many improvements over the 2002 edition, but remains a good hockey game nonetheless.
  
  After the intro videos consisting of various NHL players promoting EA, you'll be greeted with an 
 upgraded main menu system that makes all your options easily accessible and resembles a window 
 GUI somewhat. Along with accessing different play modes, the menu system allows you to easily view 
 player and team stats, and sort and filter stats. You can also export stats to CSV files. It's 
 all well done, and anyone who loves stats will love the new menu system.
  
  Once you jump into a game, you'll notice the pace has been slowed down. NHL 2002 was a fast paced 
 affair, in which players with speed boost could take the puck from one end of the rink to the other 
 by themselves, take shots at exaggerated speeds, and deliver outrageous bone crushing hits. On 
 the default settings, NHL 2003's players don't move quite so fast, and the number of hard hits 
 has been reduced. However, like all the previous NHL games, you can still skate with the puck down 
 the entire length of the rink without much trouble. Breakaways are frequent if you choose this 
 style of play. Goalies aren't invincible anymore as they were in NHL 2002, and this makes the game 
 easier, for it means that the more shots you take, the more often you'll score. Shots can now bounce 
 off goalies, so you'll see some shots trickle in occassionally. In NHL 2002, it was nearly impossible 
 to hold on to the puck long enough for a teammate to get open for a one timer. In NHL 2003, you'll 
 be able to hold the puck longer in enemy territory and wait for a teammate to get open so you can 
 pass him the puck, and one timers are more likely to be successful. The basic controls will be 
 familiar to anyone who's played previous NHL games, but there are some advanced moves to take note 
 of. Saucer passing is back again, which allows a player to pass the puck over opponent's sticks. 
 Players can now also deflect shots with their bodies. Skating backwards is gone though. Manual 
 dekes have been added, and star players will move the puck in between their legs or execute one 
 handed dekes. However, you can choose to use automatic dekes, which are really helpful on breakaways, 
 and give you a good chance faking the goalie out and scoring.
  
  Editing lines remains easy with NHL's easy to use interface and helpful option descriptions that 
 appear on the top of the screen when you mouse over an option. Any NHL series veteran will be familiar 
 with the different cameras and the replay function, which hasn't changed much in the last few games. 
 Graphics aren't as impressive in this installment, but are still good. The player animations during 
 stopped play will repeat after a while. EA's presentation has always been top notch, and this year 
 is no different. The rock music, which has become a mainstay element in a EA game is there, along 
 with the breakaway cam, which slows the action down on a breakaway. The game will pause for a few 
 moments after a spectacular save to replay it from different angles. Jim Hughson and Don Taylor 
 are back as the commentators, and thankfully, Taylor's color commentator is less annoying this 
 year around, although his attempts at humor will still have you wincing.
  
  It's a shame EA took away some of the features they introduced in NHL 2002, like the NHL player 
 cards you can buy with points accumulated for accomplishing certain in game tasks. Also gone is 
 the In Game Story feature, an in game summary of the current match. A less noticeable omission 
 is the momentum meter. In its place is the gamebreaker meter, which fills up when you score, win 
 fights, and execute dekes. Once this meter is full, you can press a button to execute the gamebreaker 
 move, which slows the action down for a few seconds and in theory is supposed to simulate a player 
 being "in the zone", but in practice, doesn't seem to serve any use, as it doesn't appear any easier 
 to make a big play while in slow-mo.
  
  You really can't go wrong with EA's NHL series. On its own, NHL 2003 is a sound game, but lacks 
 the rush and pure fun of NHL 2002. Although it feels less arcade like and more of a serious simulation, 
 NHL 2003 remains a satisfying and entertaining game. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
