-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: NHL 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sports/nhl2002/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 19, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9.2
Critic Score: 8.6, 22 Review (s)
User Score: 8.8, 499 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Sports
Genre: Ice Hockey Sim
Date:     Sep 17, 2001
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
There are quite a few excellent enhancements to the gameplay and the computer's artificial intelligence 
 hidden beneath NHL 2002's dizzying array of flashy new features. 

 Last year's NHL 2001 was about the best computer ice hockey game most fans of the sport could have 
 hoped for, even if it wasn't a perfectly realistic simulation of the sport. Using that outstanding 
 edition of the long-running hockey series as a foundation, EA Sports could just as well have added 
 on a bunch of superficial extras and called the new product NHL 2002. And to some extent that's 
 exactly what happened. But fortunately for fans of the series, let alone anyone who likes hockey, 
 there are quite a few excellent enhancements to the gameplay and the computer's artificial intelligence 
 hidden beneath NHL 2002's dizzying array of flashy new features.           NHL 2002 plays much 
 like -- but even better than -- last year's game.    

  NHL 2002 is essentially similar to NHL 2001, so fans of the previous version will likely be very 
 happy with this year's installment, too. The AI sliders that made NHL 2001 so approachable and 
 customizable are still available in NHL 2002, and they once again let you custom-tailor the computer 
 into just the sort of opponent you'd like to play against. Other returning features include the 
 rookie draft, the ability to trade draft picks, the "big hit" and deke buttons, and the options 
 to import your own music and photos for custom players. The new features in NHL 2002 are hit and 
 miss. Longtime fans of the series will likely find a few of the new features disagreeable, but 
 to its credit, EA Sports has included the option to easily toggle just about every one of the game's 
 new features on or off.   

  And the first thing many players will want to do is toggle off the new color commentary provided 
 by Don Taylor. For some reason, despite years of trying to assure gamers that the NHL series is 
 a serious sports franchise, EA Sports just gave up trying to be serious when it brought this guy 
 on board. His comments, while occasionally quite funny, rarely ever have anything at all to do 
 with hockey. They are merely one-liners that are included for humor's sake, and they give the game 
 a rather unwelcome comic air. As if trying to keep this flavor consistent across the board, the 
 developers also gave the PA announcer nothing but comic lines, such as, "Tonight's 50-50 number 
 is... not yours." Oddly enough, the PA announcer's comments are often much funnier than Taylor's, 
 but they're still out of place. You can turn the commentary off, but even when you select that 
 option, you'll still hear several of Taylor's lines in each game. Aside from the commentary, the 
 rest of the game sounds excellent and more or less exactly like the real thing.   

  NHL 2002 adds a lot to the core game, including an in-game NHL "trading cards" book, similar to 
 the ones found in some of EA Sports' PlayStation 2 games (NCAA Football 2002 for example) . You 
 can accumulate points by completing various specific objectives, such as scoring a hat trick or 
 reaching the 20-goal plateau in a season. These points can then be spent on trading cards, which 
 in turn unlock other special features. The most common of these is the ability to turn the player 
 on the card into a hero for varying periods of time. Others include unlockable goal celebrations 
 and arcadelike power-up items, such as superfast shots. As with the commentary, most hard-core 
 fans of the series will likely prefer to ignore a lot of this stuff, aside from the fun of trying 
 to collect all the available player cards.           A 3D crowd responds to the action in the rink. 
    

  NHL 2002 also adds special camera views for dramatic moments in the game. The best of these is 
 the breakaway camera, which zooms in on your offensive player as the game fades out all sounds 
 except for that player's heartbeat. The idea is excellent and can truly add a sense of drama to 
 a breakaway. However, if you're skating toward the goal at the bottom of the screen, the breakaway 
 camera will maintain that perspective instead of shifting around to follow the attacker in from 
 behind. As a result, the goal and the goalie often block most of your view. Again, you can turn 
 off the breakaway camera if you find it disruptive, but it'll probably impress you at least a few 
 times.   

  A similar, but far more frustrating, new graphical effect occurs whenever there is a dramatic body 
 check or goaltender save. The gameplay freezes for a moment and you get treated to a Hong Kong-action-movie-style 
 montage of three different views of the hit or save. Occasionally, this can be pretty spectacular -- but 
 unless you set the frequency slider for this effect pretty low, you will quickly tire of the seemingly 
 random and repetitive interruptions caused by this replay.   

  On the other hand, a more original and very well done new replay option is found in the new "game 
 story," which basically tracks the flow of the game and flashes back to key moments, either much 
 earlier in the action or just a few seconds ago. These replays pop up during stoppages and can 
 be skipped simply by pressing an action button on your controller, but they are often worth watching 
 just for fun. Some of the themes you'll see during a game story update include a hot goalie, a 
 hat trick, one team dominating the play, or a dramatic comeback by one side or the other.   

 The addition of a hero line is also welcome, as it lets you create a fifth line made up of your 
 most dangerous players. When you edit the lines for your team, you can assign your best players 
 to your hero line and then put that group on the ice in the waning moments of a close game. This 
 saves hard-core players the effort of halting games in order to shuffle their lines for the best 
 scoring punch.           The new breakaway cam offers a dramatic new perspective.    

  Lest you think that all the new features in NHL 2002 are gimmicky, you'll be happy to know that 
 the AI has been enhanced -- a lot. Computer-controlled goalies are much quicker and smarter now, 
 and thanks to what EA Sports calls adaptive goalie AI, they seem to learn your moves over time. 
 So basically you can't just do the same play over and over again and hope to have much success. 
 You will still score a lot of goals with one-time shots on the "crash the net" offense, but you 
 won't score quite as many as you were able to in NHL 2001.   

  Some of the other welcome AI tweaks include the players' ability to receive passes more realistically. 
 Now when a pass goes slightly awry, the receiving player will turn and/or extend his reach as much 
 as he can in order to get the puck. The game also now supports saucer passes, which are accomplished 
 by holding down the pass button a bit longer than usual. In effect, this is similar to the "through 
 pass" in soccer. The passer simply lifts the puck a little bit to get it past opposing players -- a 
 very solid addition to the game.   

  To make matters even more interesting, puck possession is not a cut-and-dried concept any more. 
 Instead, each player's ability to control -- and do anything with -- the puck is directly determined 
 by his "puck control" attribute. As you skate, the colored circle under your player will darken 
 to indicate how much control you have (the darker the better) . So a player who is highly susceptible 
 to giveaways will have a faintly colored circle, while puck-handling wizards like Jagr, Lemieux, 
 and Sakic will have darker circles. Also, your control of the puck increases the longer you have 
 it. The only downside to this feature is that the faintly colored "some control" circle is awfully 
 similar in appearance to the empty circle indicating no control at all. As a result, you may continue 
 skating down the ice thinking you have the puck, when actually the computer player has stolen it 
 from you and is moving quickly in the other direction.   

  Another minor problem is that, more often than is good or right, computer-controlled players on 
 your team will stand stock-still when the puck is right in front of them. Even worse, your goalie 
 will stay steadfastly in between the pipes when the puck is loose and sitting up against the side 
 of the net -- even when no opposing players are around. This simply would never, ever happen in real 
 hockey. Also, the game actually seems to put defensive players at a severe disadvantage when they 
 successfully poke-check the puck away from an attacking player. The defender goes into an odd crouching 
 position when he pokes the puck away from the attacker. He then stays in this pose for some unknown 
 reason, while the attacker can easily circle back, pick up the puck, and skate right past the now 
 out-of-position defender. Presumably, this was done to prevent easy steals leading to unlikely 
 breakaways, but it could have used more tuning.   

  Of course, you don't just have to play against the computer. NHL 2002 supports up to four players 
 in a match over the Internet, and it also provides options for playing over a modem, IPX LAN, and 
 direct Internet connection, as well as the EA. com matchmaking service.           New features, 
 like the NHL trading cards, are plentiful in NHL 2002.    

  No review of NHL 2002 would be complete without some mention of the game's impressive graphics -- rest 
 assured, the visuals are stunning. Not only do the players look even more lifelike than in previous 
 versions, but they also seem to move from one animation to the next with far more fluidity. This 
 is especially true of the goalies, who often look incredibly realistic and now have a much wider 
 variety of animations, enabling them to look the part in nearly any kind of save situation. As 
 an added bonus, EA Sports even added some 3D fans to the game, and they lean over the rails to 
 reach players entering the rink and cheer or jeer depending on how the home team happens to be 
 doing. It's a really nice touch.   

  When you consider NHL 2002 as a whole, you have a game that is everything last year's outstanding 
 version was and more. Each of the many new features adds something to the game, and if that something 
 isn't quite to your liking, you can just fine-tune the options to suit your tastes. The gameplay 
 and the graphics are still phenomenal, and the problems with the game are minor and relatively 
 scarce. It simply is the best hockey game ever produced -- again.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: mx2-option
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 2, 2006 7:24 pm PT
Review:  NHL 2002 for the PC is THE classic NHL game. This is the game when EA Sports pulled a U-Turn and 
 turn the NHL franchise, who was slowing spiralling downhill with the 2000-01 releases, and turned 
 in all around with an exciting, inovating game. NHL 2002 was the only game in the NHL series to 
 have numerous easter-eggs, and with the addition of Player Cards, the Player could have a great 
 advantage in the toughest games, only if they had accumulated enough cards to do them justice. 
 The gameplay is just the exact same as the previous game. It is a very simple key configuration 
 that is easy to use. The graphics were an enormous improvement from NHL 2001. EA Sports decided 
 to add in an extra camera mode that would occur in 1 of 3 circumstances. First, If you have a breakaway, 
 second, if you make a HUGE hit, and third, if your goaltender makes a big save. The sound was a 
 fantastic improvement, you could actually hear the players panting in exaustion when they were 
 too fatigued. This is by far the best game in the NHL series, i would recomend this game over NHL 
 06 anyday. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Danny_Bullit
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 24, 2006 4:21 am PT
Review:  I've had this game for about 1 year and i still play it almost everyday its so fun. The gameplay 
 is really good i especially like the big hits and dekes, its really fun and exciting. The graphics 
 are really good and the players look like they do in real life. The sound is awesome! You can hear 
 the crowd roar as you smoke a player at center ice or score on a break-a-way. The crowd also effects 
 your players like in real life its really cool, if the crowd is not enjoying the game your team 
 might do worse but if they're on their feet the whole time you will play an excellent game. Overall 
 its a very fun game and if you like hockey you should definetly get this game it worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CTOCTOCTO
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 30, 2005 9:20 am PT
Review:  Last year's NHL game for the PC was the best hockey game ever made. Even with its flaws, it was 
 just so much fun you couldn't help but be addicted. This year, although at first glance a replica 
 of last year's version, is again a faithfull follow up. 
  
  I can't recommend this game enough. The PS2 version is just as excellent, except minus internet 
 play. If you've got a PC and PS2 go ahead and pick up the PC version if online gaming is your thing. 
 Otherwise, though, you really can't go wrong with either version. If you've got a PC and love hockey, 
 buy this game immediately. Even if you don't understand hockey and have never really like the sport... 
 this is the game that might change your mind. NHL 2002 rules. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blahblahshutup
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 17, 2005 4:10 pm PT
Review:  I've had this game for about 2 years and i still play it almost everyday its so fun. The gameplay 
 is really good i especially like the big hits and dekes, its really fun and exciting. The graphics 
 are really good and the players look like they do in real life. The sound is awesome! You can hear 
 the crowd roar as you smoke a player at center ice or score on a break-a-way. The crowd also effects 
 your players like in real life its really cool, if the crowd is not enjoying the game your team 
 might do worse but if they're on their feet the whole time you will play an excellent game. Overall 
 its a very fun game and if you like hockey you should definetly get this game it worth it. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
