-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: NHL 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sports/nhl2001/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 28, 2000
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.8
Critic Score: 8.8, 28 Review (s)
User Score: 8.5, 265 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Sports
Genre: Ice Hockey Sim
Date:     Sep 28, 2000
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
NHL 2001 is an excellent hockey game that improves over last year's version by adding numerous new 
 features and enhancements. 

 NHL 2001 is an excellent hockey game that improves over last year's version by adding numerous new 
 features and enhancements. Longtime fans of the series and newcomers alike will welcome the new 
 gameplay customization features, the stronger computer team artificial intelligence, and the expanded 
 player-creation and team-creation features.   

  Perhaps NHL 2001's most noteworthy addition to its predecessor is the comprehensive selection of 
 customizable artificial intelligence settings included in the options menu. In this screen, you're 
 able to adjust numerous on-ice factors that directly influence the outcome of each game. Passing 
 accuracy, the length of time a player takes to recover from body checks, the duration of speed 
 bursts, the frequency of injuries, the odds of a goalie giving up big rebounds, and more are fully 
 adjustable in NHL 2001. With the inclusion of these options, you can almost fully customize your 
 individual experience with the game. Combined with the three basic difficulty settings, the artificial 
 intelligence menu makes NHL 2001 one of the most accessible sports games available.   

  NHL 2001 also includes an enhanced career mode. While this feature emerged in NHL 2000, it has 
 been polished in this year's game. For example, the free-agent signings now offer some visual feedback 
 to let you know which players are likely to sign with your squad and which are not. A little smiley 
 face will appear next to players who are interested in negotiating a deal with you, while others 
 may show a little hate-filled angry face. Happy face or no, you won't always get your man, and 
 in fact the entire trade system has been tweaked to make player transactions very tough. In general, 
 you can no longer dupe computer teams into foolish trades, though they'll still often propose ridiculous 
 trades to you and will negotiate such deals among themselves.   

  The rookie draft is largely unchanged, which is both good and bad. With the impressive advances 
 of some other sports games in this regard - for example, the excellent draft and signing features 
 in NFL 2K1 for the Dreamcast console - it's somewhat disappointing that the draft is still only 
 two rounds long. The game also lacks a minor league roster and actually suggests that you place 
 extra players on the waiver list when your roster fills. Still, you can trade draft picks over 
 the course of the season, which is quite convenient, and the ability to exit out of the draft screen 
 to modify your roster and then come back to select additional players is also very handy. Off-season 
 information on retired and waiver-wire players is available at the end of each campaign, so you 
 can see which player slots you need to fill as you enter the draft and free-agent periods.   

 
  In terms of gameplay, NHL 2001 is just short of ideal. The artificial intelligence adjustment 
 features are a significant improvement to the game and will undoubtedly please fans of the series. 
 If you don't make adjustments, the pacing and style of the game are virtually the same as in last 
 year's fast and enjoyable version, so fans of the series will have little difficulty getting up 
 to speed in NHL 2001.   

  That said, the computer opponents this year are rather more talented than last year's computer-controlled 
 teams. Even seasoned veterans will find themselves outmatched in some games, particularly against 
 powerhouse squads like New Jersey, Philadelphia, and Dallas. This is partly due to good reasons, 
 such as more-aggressive and more-intelligent computer players, more-agile goalies, and the new 
 momentum meter that lets one team gain a boost in its skill ratings when it controls the play. 
 However, the occasional long-distance goal that popped up in NHL 2000 has become much more common 
 in NHL 2001. While mid-ice wrist shots do occasionally find their way past goalies in the real 
 NHL games, you will often find that soft floaters beat your goaltender two, three, and even five 
 or more times every game in NHL 2001. What makes matters worse is that these goals almost always 
 tend to pop up at dramatic moments in a game - for example, just after you pull ahead or tie the 
 score. This annoying problem still seemed to occur with regularity even after a patch that claims 
 to improve matters with long-distance goals.    

 The other problem with NHL 2001's gameplay is less prevalent but still worth noting. Namely, certain 
 players in the league seem to be imbued with superhuman abilities when you play the game on the 
 highest difficulty level. These include well-known superstars, such as Jaromir Jagr, Eric Lindros, 
 and Pavel Bure. When you attempt to check these guys, you will very often skate right through them 
 as they bolt past you for a breakaway. Fortunately, this issue only seems to crop up at the hardest 
 setting, so if you like a tough match, then you may be able to adapt to the computer's godlike 
 abilities - or at least welcome the challenge.   

  NHL 2001 also tends to serve up some rather inaccurate goalie statistics for those keepers unfortunate 
 enough to play for your team. Even with goalie control set to automatic, the goaltenders on your 
 squad often achieve a save percentage of 85-88 and a goals-against-average in the high 3s to mid 
 4s - unacceptable numbers for an NHL goalie, incidentally. These stats would seem to result from 
 the game's emphasis on fast action and scoring, since by comparison, simulated games in NHL 2001 
 deliver very acceptable statistics in nearly every category. It doesn't even matter much what offensive 
 and defensive systems your team uses - the computer will find a way to score and score often no 
 matter what you do.   

  Graphically, NHL 2001 is light-years ahead of other PC sports games, including EA Sports' own Madden 
 NFL 2001. The motion-captured animations are phenomenal, and there's seemingly a limitless variety 
 of them. You'll notice many different types of shots, hits, goalie saves, and after-the-whistle 
 movements among the players in NHL 2001. The game also moves along at an excellent frame rate, 
 so long as you have a good 3D card. The only major slowdowns in NHL 2001 occur when the game flashes 
 a small picture-in-picture window over the main display, usually when a goalie leaves the net or 
 a penalty is about to end. Also, though it doesn't seem to affect the game's performance, the animation 
 of the crowd - which will actually stand to cheer a goal - is very impressive. If the graphics 
 in NHL 2001 have any downside, it's that they tend to suffer from serious polygonal clipping problems 
 when two players get too close to each other. But the action moves so fast that you tend to only 
 notice this while watching the highly detailed replays of your best goals.   

  NHL 2001 also features generally excellent sound effects, although the inane play-by-play and color 
 commentary are repetitive and oftentimes incorrect or mistimed. Jim Hughson and Bill Clement may 
 discuss a team's inability to score goals and then come back at the next whistle to say how great 
 the same team is doing offensively this season. Similarly, Hughson often blurts out something to 
 the effect of "Flattened by so-and-so!" when in fact so-and-so missed his check entirely and the 
 player he was attacking is wide open and streaking in on a breakaway. Fortunately, you can turn 
 off this commentary and just listen to the excellent skating, shooting, and hitting sound effects, 
 not to mention the great arena music and PA announcements.   

  EA Sports provides a freely downloadable utility that lets you import your own music into the game 
 - you can even select certain tunes to play when a goal is scored, a penalty is called, and whenever 
 other specific game situations crop up. Similarly, the face-in-the-game feature introduced last 
 year is slightly enhanced for easier editing and importing of photographs to map onto custom players' 
 faces. A new feature also lets you import a team logo and map it onto a custom team jersey.   

 
  In the end, NHL 2001 is a great follow-up to its predecessor. It has a few problems that keep 
 it from being the perfect hockey game, but they're easily overlooked in light of the game's many 
 impressive qualities.   

    Editor's note : The preceding review is a re-evaluation of NHL 2001 on GameSpot - the original 
 review overlooked certain significant features that, after consideration, invalidated the original 
 review that the game received. GameSpot regrets the error.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (6 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: agordplayer
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 1, 2008 4:07 am PT
Review:  NHL 2001 is an excellent hockey game that improves over last year's version by adding numerous 
 new features and enchantments. Graphics where also improved. Great game for any hockey fan. Has 
 lots of teams to choose from which makes the game fun and enjoyable. Masterpiece. Spent around 
 20 to 40 hours of play time. Difficulty is just right. Overall I will give this game a 8.5 out 
 of 10 Stars.
  
  NHL 2001 is an excellent hockey game that improves over last year's version by adding numerous 
 new features and enchantments. Graphics where also improved. Great game for any hockey fan. Has 
 lots of teams to choose from which makes the game fun and enjoyable. Masterpiece. Spent around 
 20 to 40 hours of play time. Difficulty is just right. Overall I will give this game a 8.5 out 
 of 10 Stars.
  
  
  NHL 2001 is an excellent hockey game that improves over last year's version by adding numerous 
 new features and enchantments. Graphics where also improved. Great game for any hockey fan. Has 
 lots of teams to choose from which makes the game fun and enjoyable. Masterpiece. Spent around 
 20 to 40 hours of play time. Difficulty is just right. Overall I will give this game a 8.5 out 
 of 10 Stars.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilchinagirl
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 30, 2007 10:48 am PT
Review:  This isn't really considered a girl game ... but I got a new gamepad and took my brothers NHL once 
 to try it out... and I got hooked hehe
  
  The customise your team option in this game is great!! And you can make seasons nice and long too 
 ^^
  
  The graphics are cool... The fights are good, and the way you can big hit other players and give 
 your team a boost (no its not cheating, its tactics...) is great
  
  This game has kept me occupied for HOURS on end so I would recommend it as it is great huge black 
 bags full of fun!!! :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NHLfreak
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 25, 2007 6:33 am PT
Review:  This game is probably the best game that is completely hockey before 2000. The only thing I do 
 not like from this game is that there is no Fantasy Draft. But you can trade any player for any 
 player so, it is like a fantasy draft. The control is pretty good and the cameras are respectable, 
 and I really mean respectable. This game has only one special feature that is: Marc Crawford's 
 Coaching Drill. It is pretty fun but still, you are just better playing a quick game than to go 
 to Coaching drill mode. The graphics are not bad and the sound is great. I got it for nothing and 
 it was really worth it. In conclusion, this game shines like a simple hockey simulation with nothing 
 special like in the new versions. You would expect more from one of ea's hockey games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andch17
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 9, 2006 8:06 pm PT
Review:  NHL 2000 was probably one of the best hockey games ever made, it had fantastic gameplay, solid 
 graphics, and was very fun. NHL 2001 is expected to live up to that game, and is arguably better 
 than NHL 2000.
  
  NHL 2001 has everything you would want in an NHL game, it has great gameplay, great graphics, sounds 
 great, and is worth every penny that you pay for it. First of all, the gameplay is great and also 
 hilarous. The game is very easy to pick up and play, all you need to do in the game to be successful 
 is get pucks at the net and good things will happen. What is funny about the game is the hitting, 
 when the puck is frozen all the players will huddle up and hit the hell out of eachother. Sometimes 
 when you are hit, your player will do a backflip and it is hilarious. The graphics are much better 
 than the graphics in NHL 2000, the players look pretty much like they do in real life, and the 
 ice looks very good. The sound is great, all the on ice sounds are polished and the commentary 
 is good. 
  
  This is a must have for hockey lovers and should be considered for any sports fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CTOCTOCTO
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 30, 2005 9:16 am PT
Review:  I admit that I havent played any of the NHL or NHLPA games since NHL 93, mostly because of lack 
 of funds paired with older machines. After the last upgrade to my PC, I went hog wild at the local 
 computer stores, buying games that Ive been denying myself. When I saw NHL 2001 I remembered the 
 media blitz and couldnt stop myself from buying a copy then stopping at Mcdonalds for one of those 
 Chicken Burgers (Damn those clever advertisers) .
  
  Start up and installation is painless  a nice treat for an idiot like myself with 7 partitions 
 on a 13 gig drive (dont ask, youll only laugh) . The opening cutscene had me impressed and ready 
 to bring my Habs to the Stanley Cup. (Quit laughing Omni.) (HAHAHA!  Omni) Gameplay is spectacular. 
 Every nuance of the game can be controlled by the gamer  offensive zone setup, powerplay preferences, 
 aggressiveness you name it, the designers put it in a menu somewhere. The sound draws the gamer 
 right into the game. I didnt realize how long I had been playing until the evening news came on 
  I started playing at noon. Ive probably logged about 100 hours of gameplay and I think that 
 the designers at Electronic Arts should be very proud of themselves.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: coolbmann
Rating: 7.7
Date: Feb 18, 2005 8:42 pm PT
Review:  The triumphant return of Pittsburgh Penguins center Mario Lemieux has triggered a buzz with National 
 Hockey League fans. The cure can be found at any electronics store: "NHL 2001" by EA Sports. 
 
  
  "NHL 2001" gives hockey fans a slight upgrade from its previous release with a few new wrinkles 
 to enhance head-to-head and seasonal play. Most of the new features are minor and would go unnoticed 
 by new users. Eighteen international teams, two NHL expansion teams and in-game momentum gauges 
 are the most obvious changes. However, player animation has been improved to the point where game-flow 
 from blue line to blue line is smoother than ever. 
  
  Control is considerably easier than other EA Sports sports games and has enough complexity to keep 
 experienced players satisfied. Strategies can be modified on offense, defense, goaltending and 
 penalty units, or run according to the automatic settings programmed in the game default settings. 
 Analyst Bill Clement returns to handle the play-by-play duties and delivers with the same edge 
 as he does on ESPN broadcasts. 
  
  The drawbacks are minor. The fighting sequences are brief, simple and watered-down. Views from 
 around the arena are basic and unspectacular. All in all, the game is a solid pick, but not a must-have 
 if you are satisfied with the 2000 version. Players looking for major innovations will be disappointed. 
 
  
  Designers have made significant improvements over the previous nine releases. The first version 
 in 1992 only had eight teams and one overhead view for playing. In 1993, the NHL's Players Association 
 came on board and allowed the names of over 500 players to be used, and two years later on-ice 
 enhancements such as fake shots and drop passes were added. By 1995, programmers added several 
 camera angles, and three years later play-by-play commentators were thrown in. 
  
  And about the return of Lemieux. The game came out too late for the Hall of Famer to be included, 
 but he can be added to any roster with the player creation feature. It's a novelty many games include 
 and keeps EA Sports on par with the rest of the industry. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
