-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: NHL 99
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sports/nhl99/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 22, 1998
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.4
Critic Score: 8.8, 18 Review (s)
User Score: 8.3, 196 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Electronic Arts
Developer: EA Sports
Genre: Ice Hockey Sim
Date:     Sep 30, 1998
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The sense of satisfaction I get from victories or even hard-fought losses more than compensates 
 for any frustration I'm experiencing. 

 When it comes to PC simulations, football fans are living the life of Reilly. EA's Madden NFL 99, 
 Sierra's Football Pro, NFL GameDay 99, ABC Monday Night Football, NFL Blitz - regardless of whether 
 you're looking for high strategy, over-the-top arcade antics, or something in between, there's 
 a football sim out there that should satisfy you.  

 But hockey fans don't have anywhere near that level of choice, at least as far as PC gaming's concerned. 
 It's pretty much boiled down to EA Sports' NHL Hockey games or Virgin's PowerPlay series, and to 
 make matters worse, there's no sign of another PowerPlay game. Perhaps that explains why the debate 
 over NHL Hockey 99 has become so incredibly heated: For hockey fans, there's no really no other 
 game to turn to if you don't like this one.  

 So what sort of new features has EA brought to the table with NHL Hockey 99? Naturally the graphics 
 have been improved over last year's model, with stunning reflections on the ice and clearly recognizable 
 faces on every player. The animations, especially when it comes to severe body checks, have also 
 been ratcheted up a notch - perhaps a little too much. Seeing a player get knocked through the 
 glass is fun the first time, but it starts to wear a little thin the third or fourth time in a 
 single game. But I'll gladly deal with a little broken glass in exchange for these crisp graphics 
 and smooth animations.  

 Where the bulk of development time was obviously spent, though, was in sharpening the artificial 
 intelligence routines that dictate the actions of computer-controlled players. Previous NHL Hockey 
 games were plagued with far too many offsides and two-line passes, not to mention goalies that 
 could be faked out of their skates on just about every breakaway and defenses that could be shredded 
 almost at will by NHL Hockey veterans. But that's all changed for NHL 99: You'll see very few offsides 
 and two-line pass violations now, and the computer-controlled defense is now much more aggressive. 

 At first glance, in fact, it might seem that EA went a little overboard trying to make the AI more 
 robust. In my first few games at the pro level (next to highest level of difficulty) , I was giving 
 up an insane amount of goals (with goalie control set to Auto) - 10 against Toronto, 9 against 
 Dallas, 12 against Washington, all while controlling the world-champion Red Wings. Even more frustrating, 
 I was only managing a paltry goal or two on my best nights. But when I stopped trying to score 
 by freelancing every time down the ice (something I could do with easy in NHL Hockey 98) and began 
 focusing on executing the strategies I'd studied in the coaching strategies screen, my opponents' 
 totals began to drop, and my own slowly began to rise.  

 My studious efforts didn't decrease the unrealistic number of shots taken by the computer - despite 
 your best efforts, you can still see upwards of 25 or 30 shots on goal per team in a single 20-minute 
 period - but at least I could start holding my own on a regular basis. Still, the shots-on-goal 
 issue is obviously a sticky one for gamers looking for a lifelike recreation of hockey; a casual 
 fan like myself can deal with it fine, but hardcore hockey devotees will have a hard time swallowing 
 these inflated numbers.  

 Another nice addition is a practice mode, where you can iron out your moves in all the offensive 
 and defensive sets, not to mention specialized situations like 1-on-2 breaks and penalty shots. 
 Combined with the animated coaching strategy display, this is a real godsend for beginners - though 
 I would have loved it if EA had gone the extra mile and added a full-blown tutorial (similar to 
 Madden 101 in the Madden NFL games) that would explain more clearly what types of strategies are 
 best-suited for your lineup.  

 There's been a lot of talk on Usenet of bugs in NHL Hockey such as lock-ups, play-by-play blunders, 
 and so on, but all I can say is that I've yet to experience any type of lock-up or even slowdown 
 during play. As far as the play-by-play goes, it's basically the same stuff we've been hearing 
 for two or three years now, so I've subconsciously tuned it out and wouldn't notice even if the 
 commentary was incorrect (my bad) . The other things some people are calling "bugs" - lack of scoring, 
 difficulty in passing, and so on - are just too subjective to evaluate honestly. I too thought 
 the goalies were invincible at the Pro and All-Star levels, but as I mentioned previously, it just 
 took a little patience and practice before I started to see the playing field gradually level out. 

 Based solely on the intensity of the action out on the ice, I've got to recommend NHL 99 over the 
 1998 edition - but it's getting a lower overall score from me than I gave that game because of 
 some of the weird omissions and pointless design decisions EA Sports incorporated in NHL 99. For 
 instance, why isn't there a way to allocate a button to perform a wrist shot automatically? The 
 same goes for a poke check - both of these (and many other actions) were available in PowerPlay 
 98, and I was almost certain that EA would incorporate them in NHL 99.  

 Realizing that the improved AI might make NHL 99 a little tough even for veterans, EA thoughtfully 
 included an "advantage" option that lets you tilt the balance in your favor regardless of difficulty 
 setting - but if you decide to use line changes (manual or auto) , the feature is automatically 
 disabled!  

 Another real disappointment is the lack of a "coach-only" mode, similar to what's found in the Madden 
 NFL games. Hockey's an extremely fast-paced game, and I'm sure there are some fans who'd be happy 
 to merely make the coaching decisions and watch the computer carry out the dirty work. But even 
 if you don't assign yourself a controller at the Game Setup screen in a Season game, you'll find 
 that you've still got control once the game starts! There really should be a way for you to make 
 line changes without having to control the players out on the ice, dontcha think?  

 Surprisingly, NHL Hockey has no support for Internet play - although it's probably just as well, 
 given the feeble effort made in Madden NFL 99 for Internet play. In EA's favor, a strong point 
 can be made that latencies are almost always too high to play a game like NHL Hockey 99 over the 
 Internet; you'd need latencies somewhere around 100ms or less to even hope of having a smooth game. 
 But there's always the chance you might get a latency that low against certain opponents - if you 
 both have ISDN connections and use the same ISP, for instance - and a coach-only mode would almost 
 certainly allow for somewhat higher latencies.  

 Perhaps my biggest complaint with NHL Hockey 99, though, is the interface. I haven't played the 
 console versions of this game, but judging from the convoluted layout, it's a safe bet that the 
 interfaces are all identical. In every previous NHL Hockey game, for example, line changes were 
 selected under the Rules menu; now, you choose them at the Controller Selection screen? I probably 
 spent a good half hour or more just poking around trying to find options and features I'd never 
 had trouble locating in earlier versions, due in no small part to a cryptic manual that gives you 
 little more than the bare essentials of program navigation.  

 So, I'm uninstalling NHL 99 and going back to NHL 98 or PowerPlay 98, right? Not on your life! I'm 
 loving the heightened challenge and stellar graphics in NHL 99, and while I'm not too happy at 
 muddling around the interface screens, the sense of satisfaction I get from victories or even hard-fought 
 losses more than compensates for any frustration I'm experiencing. NHL 98 owners on a tight budget 
 can certainly get by without buying NHL 99, but at the very least they should download the demo 
 and see what they think of it - especially since they can "upgrade" to the new version for the 
 reasonable price of $29.99. And no matter how infuriated you are at NHL Hockey 99 for not delivering 
 what you expect for in a hockey simulation, at the very least you've got to appreciate that pricing 
 move.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (3 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: insaneassclown
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 16, 2006 4:38 pm PT
Review:  When I first got this game... I wasn't excepting much since I didn't like watching hockey and I 
 have the smallest interest in it. 
  
  So I put this game on and I then couldn't stop playing it. It was probably one of the first best 
 sports and PC game I've played. I would skip my breakfasts, lunches, and dinners just to play this 
 game. I played it constantly for a year. Now I stopped, of course. 
  
  Gameplay: yeah yeah yeah I know it's so damn damn damn hard to score. If you play this game long 
 enough; you'll discover that shooting from half court can make the puck fly and over the goalie 
 and into the net (most of the time) = easier way to score. The fighting was VERY fun at first, 
 but then gets old. 
  
  Graphics: I think it looks pretty good for a game that released in 1998.
  
  Sound: Good commentary. 
 Then again every single sports game always have repetitive speech. 
  
  Value: I didn't how much it cost back then because I wasn't the buyer, but I play this for a year 
 and it was all good. 
  
  Tilt: There were really some frustrating moments in a game, especially playing on the All-Star 
 level. I found myself banging on my computer's desk causing my keyboard to fly up alittle bit just 
 because I didn't score when I felt like the puck should have went in. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SQUIRREL_LEGEND
Rating: 10
Date: May 18, 2006 3:39 am PT
Review:  played this game all day, all night, all day again. Till it got stolen, now im in the market for 
 a new or used one. This game was so much fun, didnt really repeat it self cause if you control 
 the puck the games as real as you are watching it. This was so much fun for me i hope it will be 
 for you too. I do recommed this game to however likes to create there own plays. those of you who 
 like to create a team, come here! this game is awesome. BEST NHL GAME OF ALL TIME, so far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yamauchirulez
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jan 14, 2006 3:14 pm PT
Review:  This game is probably the best game that is completely hockey before 2000. The only thing I do 
 not like from this game is that there is no Fantasy Draft. But you can trade any player for any 
 player so, it is like a fantasy draft. The control is pretty good and the cameras are respectable, 
 and I really mean respectable. This game has only one special feature that is: Marc Crawford's 
 Coaching Drill. It is pretty fun but still, you are just better playing a quick game than to go 
 to Coaching drill mode. The graphics are not bad and the sound is great. I got it for nothing and 
 it was really worth it. In conclusion, this game shines like a simple hockey simulation with nothing 
 special like in the new versions. You would expect more from one of ea's hockey games. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
