-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: NHL: Eastside Hockey Manager 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sports/nhleastsidehockeymanager2007/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Incredible depth and accuracy.
 astute artificial intelligence that knows its way around the salary cap.
 trading and player movement so smart that it seems like real hockey professionals are making management decisions.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Sim times are a little on the slow side.
 Audio presentation is still pretty minimal.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct  2, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.8
Critic Score: 8.9, 3 Review (s)
User Score: 8.6, 171 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sega
Developer: Sports Interactive
Genre: Ice Hockey Management
Date:     Sep 22, 2006
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Start playing NHL Eastside Hockey Manager 2007 now, and you might not come up for air until after 
 the real hockey season ends next spring. 

  With a simulation as good as NHL Eastside Hockey Manager 2007, you might not need the real NHL 
 anymore. Sports Interactive's incredibly detailed and lifelike look at pro hockey is back with 
 a bulked-up feature set, an overhauled menu system, and all sorts of artificial intelligence enhancements 
 that make for amazingly authentic computer management decisions. While this series has been fantastic 
 from the very beginning, this edition of the game is clearly the best ever.  

          The new 2D game engine is so accurate that you might as well be watching real hockey games 
 from the nosebleeds.     

  On the surface, the new EHM looks and feels a lot like the old EHM. The only big changes you notice 
 right off the bat involve the interface, which has been tweaked in a few areas to provide for more 
 intuitive navigation among the more than 45,000 players and 3,000-plus teams included in the game 
 (meaning that sim times are a little slow, especially if you run a league tracking most of these 
 teams and players) . Basic features are still roughly the same as before. You take over the operation 
 of the hockey club of your choice in solo or online leagues (although the designers have obviously 
 focused mostly on improving solo play this year, and the game's few hardcore multiplayer fans will 
 be disappointed that SI strangely cut the number of supported players down to 16 players this year, 
 so human players can't take over every club in the 30-team NHL) , from Junior A all the way up to 
 pro circuits like the NHL and the European Elite, and handle management and coaching tasks like 
 signing free agents, setting lines, and developing on-ice tactics.  

  But you really begin to notice improvements to the game from the moment you get started with a 
 career in the NHL. Increased player movement is the most obvious change. Where past EHM games were 
 a little light on player movement, as the computer GMs were a bit gun-shy about putting also-rans 
 on waivers or approaching you for trades, now the action is fast and furious, particularly at certain 
 times of the season. For instance, at the tail end of training camp every year, there is a flurry 
 of action as teams dump their disappointments to the waiver wire. The action also heats up with 
 increased trade talk around the NHL trade deadline and as the summer entry draft approaches. It's 
 easier to make deals from your perspective, too, because you get loads of feedback on potential 
 trades from your coach and the opposing GM. Your coach is quick to tell you if a player is being 
 overvalued or if he has any concerns about the financial ramifications of a proposed deal.  

  General managers are very astute and fully aware of the skills of players being offered up for 
 trade, their team needs, and the salary cap. This means that you can't rip them off, but you can 
 swing reasonable trades for both sides. It's a bit spooky how much player movement mimics real 
 life. Clubs out of the playoff hunt will hold fire sales of players, while those gunning for the 
 Stanley Cup will load up on players either at the trade deadline or around draft day. Also, the 
 new NHL collective bargaining agreement is a big issue in the game. Teams can get stuck near the 
 salary cap limit or simply find that a high-priced player is taking up too much cap room for what 
 he's contributing on the ice, which forces teams to put players on the trading block for either 
 picks or cheap prospects. Players like Jeremy Roenick and Sergei Federov have been moved in the 
 real NHL in deals like this over the past year, so it was great to see this same sort of transaction 
 happening in EHM 2007. In our first NHL season, for example, we managed to pick up Jamie Langenbrunner 
 from the capped-out New Jersey Devils for the low, low price of Nik Antropov.  

  Bargains are rarities, though. Computer GMs are tough traders and always want salary parity in 
 deals unless you're giving them a great player that they just can't pass up. Players are also good 
 negotiators and demonstrate real personality and character. We approached Theoren Fleury with a 
 contract after a great tryout in the Maple Leafs training camp, and the possible future Hall of 
 Famer actually turned us down because we set his role as a fringe player. As you can easily imagine 
 the real Fleury pulling the same sort of stunt, seeing this in the game was pretty satisfying (even 
 though it was a bit goofy that we eventually signed him for a lot less money by promising him a 
 key role with the club for the coming season) .  

  On-ice details and tactical options have been greatly improved, as well. Players are now rated 
 at different positions, so you can tell at a glance whether it's a smart move to try that natural 
 center on left wing, where he is rated as "unconvincing," or shift a natural left defenseman to 
 the right side, where he's rated as "competent." Scouting reports are more detailed, as well. Loads 
 of information is available on all players, so you can get a thorough look at prospects before 
 going into the draft. You can now micromanage every player's role on every line, too, by manipulating 
 a suite of slider bars that control their aggression, tempo, hitting, back-checking, shot or pass 
 preference, and more. It's easy to get absolutely lost in the minutiae of running your team in 
 both the front office and on the bench, constantly tinkering with little details to try and get 
 the best out of your club.  

          You can get computer GMs to agree to the odd deal on your terms, but you can't push them 
 too far.     

  But even though EHM has stepped up its game when it comes to the nuts and bolts of the simulation 
 engine, the audio is still nonexistent, with the exception of rock music between whistles while 
 watching games, and the series hasn't changed much in terms of appearance since its inception in 
 2004. This year sees the graphics take a step back in one area, as SI has cut most player photos 
 out of the game as a cost-saving measure. All NHL stars are represented by generic forward, defenseman, 
 and goalie icons in their profiles, although a lot of the league's lesser lights still have their 
 actual photos in the game. This removes some of the hockey-card character of the player screens, 
 so hopefully some enterprising modder will whip up a face pack to add the pics back into the game. 

  The 2D engine that's used to watch games is better than ever. Previously, it looked a bit like 
 pinball on ice, with the little numbered dots representing players scurrying around in ways that 
 didn't make much sense. Now, games play out exactly like real hockey games. Sims are slower overall, 
 but you can watch plays take shape, players head off on changes, and teams set up on the power 
 play. You can tell if your line and tactical strategies are working by watching the games now, 
 which makes you feel like you really are a general manager checking out your team's performance. 

  Any hockey nut will have an absolute blast with NHL Eastside Hockey Manager 2007. The only problem 
 is that the game is so authentic and so all-consuming that you just might find yourself playing 
 it practically nonstop for days and weeks at a time. Start playing it now, and you might as well 
 say good-bye to following the real NHL season, as your free time will be booked right through next 
 spring.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (7 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: fbasque78
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 2, 2007 6:23 pm PT
Review:  This game let's you control whatever team you wish to take over. You can pull off trades, edit 
 your roster, call up someone to the big club or send someone back to the farm team. You can even 
 edit what style a particular player should play, and they will try to do what you want to the best 
 of their ability. The interface is easier to navigate this year, but anyone but hockey nuts will 
 easily be lost with all the options that are offered. You can even scout players from all over 
 the world for the draft or try to sign a free agent who you think can turn into gold.
  
  The interface looks great. The sound is almost non existant but this type of game doesn't really 
 need this anyway. The computer Managers won't accept crappy trades like they did a couple years 
 ago.
  
  If you enjoyed previous versions of this game, you will love this one. It's the best yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cdndragoon
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 22, 2007 6:47 pm PT
Review:  I've played all three versions of Eastside Hockey Manager and this blows the rest of the series 
 away. The detail in every team, every player, every staff member is absolutely mind-blowing. Take 
 control of any hockey team you've ever heard of and thousands of real-life players. If you've ever 
 thought that EA Sports NHL series was OK, but what you'd really like to do is trim the roster, 
 fix your salary costs, fire that coach, and make a run for the Cup, then this is definitely the 
 game for you.
  
  What you shouldn't expect with this game is a beautifully rendered rink, reflections in players' 
 visors, etc. This isn't that kind of game. You'll see little stick-figures moving around the ice 
 (assuming you're the kind of manager who even wants to watch the games) . The real action takes 
 place in the database, where you move your lines around, make trade offers, and do your hiring/firing 
 of staff. The games get simulated, but you can take control to do all the coaching if you want. 
 As I said, the graphics aren't flashy, but the menus are nicely rendered. Ditto for the sound - 
 no music, but the game sounds are fairly good, including puck sounds, crowd noises, and the carving 
 of the ice. One significant absence from this year is the player photos which usually went with 
 each profile - only AHL players and some other minor-leaguers are included, but no NHLers.
  
  In terms of the playable leagues and teams, the only notable absence is the NCAA (for licensing 
 reasons) but enough mods are on the market to fix this necessary omission. Likewise, the fictional 
 players in this league can be 'unfaked' to add to the realism. The nuances of the game, including 
 the tactics sliders, take some time to get used to and some practice to figure out the exact effect 
 some of these have on your players' performance, so feel free to let your coach have some leeway 
 in the early going, at least until you've figured out how your guys are doing.
  
  An interesting, but not necessarily useful feature is that every time you save this game, it records 
 how much game time you've clocked (I'm up to 10 days thus far) and it also lets you know how addicted 
 to the game you are at this point, i. e. 'Don't forget to brush your teeth'. Helpful reminders, 
 all. All this time isn't spent on one season, either. The game continues for decades past the 2006-07 
 season, with youth players moving up the ranks to replace retirees.
  
  If you can judge a game by how many times your wife tells you to put the damn thing away and come 
 to bed, then this one is the best there is. Never before or since have I played a game with such 
 staying power. It's a shame SI Interactive has decided to cancel future development of this series, 
 but EHM 07 is strong enough to carry the franchise until SI revives it. Buy it, live it, love it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jade_Monkey
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 14, 2007 9:58 pm PT
Review:  Eastside Hockey Manager 2007 isn't for everyone, but for this niche genre it's awesome. There is 
 not another game even close to the depth of this game that I have played before. It's so addicting 
 to, I played for nearly 12 hours straight the other day and never even really noticed.
  
  Presentation:
  
  The menus are nicely laid out and most things are easy to find. I say most 
 things because a few minor things could of been easier. There really are no in game movies to speak 
 of, or a manual either ( I got the online download version) .
  
  Graphics:
  
  Again, this isn't your typical game. To be honest you don't even have to view the game so it is 
 possible to pretty much play the game without watching hockey. Te graphics that are done are basically 
 sticks with circles. It's pretty primitive but it's not the focus of the game so I am being lenient 
 here. Still some more effort would of been nice. Even NFL Head Coach had some decent visuals to 
 go with the behind the scenes aspect.
  
  Sound:
  
  In short, what sound ? There is no background music, the sounds of the game being played are as 
 basic as it gets, and you can play the game without sound and it makes no real difference. Again, 
 more effort would of been nice.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Alas, here is where this game shines and flexes its muscle. It is DEEP, and that's an understatement. 
 You can start scouting players at the young age of 14 and keep track of them throughout their later 
 life. You are in charge of lines, captains, strategies, scouting, contracts, and much much more. 
 For lines you can select who shoots and who passes, who can fight and who can't, what the goalie 
 should do in certain situations, and who are captains. For scouting, you decide what your scouts 
 will be looking at, where they will look, the age of prospective talent, position, and more. For 
 contracts you can set bonuses and clauses, and you can resign and fire coaches, scouts, talent, 
 all can be done. Late in players careers you can offer them a contract as a coach, scout or assistant 
 GM. You can fine players for a variety of reasons or give them a warning. You will be answering 
 questions from the media on where you sand with certain players, and your answers will have consequences. 
 This only scratches the surface and doesn't really fully explain everything, there is much more.
 
  
  Lasting Appeal:
  
  There are over 20 leagues, a fantasy draft, and so much to do. You can be fired and get a job elsewhere. 
 If this type of game is for you, it won't be turned off soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kfelber
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 27, 2006 12:26 am PT
Review:  After playing 05 the last couple of years I was really excited about the new game. And having played 
 the new game I must say, that each upgrade they have made is close to perfect! The new layout is 
 great, the enhanced tactics are wonderful, and of course the new 2D engine really makes it fun 
 to watch the game !!
  
  A great enhanced is also the extra leagues they have put in! It has now become really fun to play 
 the european leagues instead of the NHL.
  
  Start in a small team in Denmark and become the ultimate GM in the NHL!
  
  All in all a MUST 
 HAVE for all hockey fans !! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hockeyman23
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 25, 2006 11:22 am PT
Review:  What can I say but what an amazing game sports interactive have come up with. Everything about 
 it got me buzzing, and you can just keep playing it forever. There might be a couple of bugs here 
 and there but Im sure sports interactive will patch them up in no time. And the leagues they now 
 have (new leagues including. EPL in England and the CHL) make it that ever bit more exciting; theres 
 so much to do in the game. The only way Im ever going to stop playing this game is when they bring 
 out the new one which could be a while from now. The tactics, the graphics everything makes for 
 great game play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tieio
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 25, 2006 12:17 am PT
Review:  Going from the title NHL: EHM 2005 straight to NHL: EHM 2007 may confuse some people, but this 3rd 
 edition of the series is an amazing upgrade. A few small bugs linger, but the lads as SI are quick 
 to patch these and get them out of the way so you can just dive in enjoy a great game.
  
  It is emmersive, like the last ones, and has even more detail added. The new tactics for individual 
 players alone is enough to make this worth buying, but it certainly doesn't stop there. New AI, 
 2D engine and statistical depth are sure to impress fans of the series and hook new ones.
  
  Personally, I did not think that 2005 could be improved upon, and I was wrong, and have never 
 been happier to be wrong. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EagleScream
Rating: 8.6
Date: Sep 27, 2006 4:48 am PT
Review:  Originally I wrote a scathing review of this game because I could not get a problem fixed and found 
 it difficult to register on the company forums, however now that it has been fixed I have to say 
 I LOVE the game.
  
  It is really good in terms simulation and detail. Those who complain about NHL 07 not being good 
 in terms of realism should really check this game out, it will meet your needs
  
  My only concern would be for those who are new to the game they really need to make a newbie tutorial 
 or FAQ page IN the game so that users do not have to take as long to figure out what turned out 
 to be a simple problem (when shown how to do it properly) .
  
  A wonderful game that will keep you addicted for a very long time. :) 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
