-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: NHL Eastside Hockey Manager
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sports/eastsidehockeymanagerfe/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 12, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.4
Critic Score: 7.5, 10 Review (s)
User Score: 8.4, 105 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sega
Developer: Sports Interactive
Genre: Ice Hockey Management
Date:     Oct 19, 2004
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This fantastically addictive management simulation covers the entire world of hockey. 

  Do Canadians really know hockey best? Finnish game developer Risto Remes and UK sports management 
 sim legend Sports Interactive (best known for the Championship Manager series of soccer sims) are 
 putting that platitude to the test with NHL Eastside Hockey Manager, the most comprehensive treatment 
 of the coolest game on Earth ever seen in a game. This fantastically addictive management simulation 
 covers the entire world of hockey, encompassing everything from tier-two Canadian Junior 'A' Hockey 
 League clubs in small-town Saskatchewan to the bright lights, big city atmosphere of National Hockey 
 League franchises like the New York Rangers.  

          Each player is rated in more than two dozen categories, and the information screens are 
 also attractively designed.     

  Encyclopedic scope is Eastside's biggest plus. While designers have attempted NHL management simulations 
 before, nobody has included so much hockey in a single game. Remes first released the game as downloadable 
 freeware in 2001, and the amount of time that he's spent working on the project shows. Even though 
 most will be drawn to the lineup of recognizable teams and players in the NHL, you can take over 
 clubs in 18 leagues in every corner of the globe, in both solo and in online multiplayer leagues. 
 You can head to the show right away and step in as general manager of famed teams like the Toronto 
 Maple Leafs or the Chicago Blackhawks, or you can start farther down the line with a minor-league 
 club like the Brandon Wheat Kings of the Western Hockey League. You can even leave North America 
 altogether to sign up the likes of Dukla Trencin in Slovakia's ST Extraliga. Do well in the minors 
 and you may just get an offer from one of the big boys.  

  Team and league listings are exhaustive. Even tier-two and tier-three Canadian Junior 'A' Hockey 
 League and Canadian Junior 'B' Hockey League clubs are featured here, from tiny towns like Brockville, 
 Ontario, to Pictou, Nova Scotia. Most teams feature a full complement of real players and management 
 staff. In fact, there are more than a thousand teams and more than 20,000 players in the game. 
 Even the majority of minor-league franchises boast accurate listings of personnel. For instance, 
 you can even call up Major Junior teams -- like those from the Ontario Hockey League in Canada -- to 
 see local legends like Brian Kilrea (the winningest coach in Junior hockey) running the Ottawa 
 67's or to see Jeff Twohey commanding the Peterbough Petes. Eastside is a licensed product of both 
 the NHL and the NHLPA, too, so all of the familiar logos, names, and faces are on display here 
 for that touch of big-league authenticity. If you know your hockey, you'll feel right at home here. 

  Of course, Eastside Hockey Manager is supposed to be a game, not an encyclopedia. Thankfully, Remes 
 and Sports Interactive have remembered this and have combined the painstaking lineup of leagues, 
 teams, and players with gameplay that serious hockey fans will find almost impossible to put down. 
 A big part of this is because of the extensive player ratings system. Every player in the game 
 comes rated in 27 skills that are divided into mental, physical, and technical categories. Every 
 aspect of a player's personality and hockey abilities are tracked here, including aggression, teamwork, 
 speed, checking, hitting, deking, stickhandling, and so on. The only omission is a plain English 
 scouting report that puts all of these numbers into a concise paragraph detailing player strengths 
 and weaknesses. You  can  request reports from coaches and physiotherapists, though. So at least 
 you can get an expert opinion on whether or not a player is good enough for the starting lineup, 
 or you can get advice about the condition of a player who's suffering from chronic injuries.  

 
  Players also come with reputations and opinions about their teams. So you might have a solid team 
 player like Eric Desjardins, who believes that the Philadelphia Flyers have "a good locker room 
 atmosphere." However, you may have an unhappy camper like Ed Belfour, who feels unfairly treated 
 even when the Toronto Maple Leafs offer him a new $10 million-per-year contract. Some players are 
 flat-out head cases who seem destined to rip up team chemistry. Mike Comrie, for instance, seems 
 to alienate teammates in every dressing room he enters, just like in real life.  

          Games can be watched in tactical mode, which shows how the play is developing on the ice 
 and includes textual play-by-play.     

  Players who are proud to be with their clubs are easier to re-sign, and they're easier to lowball 
 with contract numbers. However, they can also react negatively to such maneuvers. Players sometimes 
 have problems being shopped around the league, taking media criticism, enduring time on the bench, 
 and so on, so their play suffers accordingly. Others might make friends on the team, so they may 
 want out if their unofficial team "leaders" are traded or aren't re-signed. We had trouble in Toronto 
 with Matt Stajan when Alexander Mogilny was allowed to leave town at the end of his contract, because 
 Stajan felt that Mogilny was a key member of the club. All of these factors turn players into people, 
 thus making it a challenge to set a coherent, winning lineup.  

  Money matters make it even harder to build a Stanley Cup contender. Your board of directors can 
 keep a tight hold on the purse strings and can refuse to pony up the cash needed to re-sign pending 
 free agents. Run a small-market franchise like Ottawa and caps on contracts for certain players 
 can be so low that you simply can't sign them. There is no way around this, either. Your focus 
 is solely on building a winning hockey club, so there are no moneymaking options -- like raising 
 ticket prices, staging promotion nights, or jacking up the price of beer -- as in sports management 
 franchises like Out of the Park Baseball and Baseball Mogul. You simply have to stay within the 
 limits outlined by the board of directors, and you must do well in the amateur and waiver drafts. 
     

  Smart artificial intelligence provides you with tough opposition. Computer-controlled GMs can't 
 be conned into dumb trades, because many top players are designated untouchable. This prevents 
 human players from robbing computer opponents, but at the same time, it makes the game a little 
 less realistic, because it's virtually impossible to convince your rivals to make a fair big-time 
 swap. We couldn't get Joe Thornton away from the Bruins for the likes of Mats Sundin, Alexander 
 Mogilny, and a first-round draft pick. Also, some odd players are designated untouchable. The ever-losing 
 New York Rangers, for example, refuse to move Eric Lindros for equitable return, even though the 
 real team managers would probably love it if some sucker would take his contract off their hands. 

          Teams from all over the world are included, from the famed NHL clubs to little-known European 
 teams like Dukla Trencin of the Slovakian ST Extraliga.     

  These opponents are also hard to beat on the ice. Computer coaches set up good lines and alter 
 their approaches to best square off with your squad. Manually coaching games features a lot of 
 options. Along with setting your lines, you can give the team orders that determine how your players 
 forecheck, back-check, hit, and play the puck along the boards. You can even instruct your players 
 to go high, low, or five-hole when shooting, and you can tell your goalie whether he should stay 
 in his net or play the puck whenever possible. The success or failure of your orders can be seen 
 played out on the game screen, which features serviceable, if not overly charismatic, textual play-by-play 
 and a tactical option that shows the flow of the play on an ice surface viewed from above.  

  There are just a few flaws here, many of which concern the interface. As with a lot of text-based 
 sports management games, the menu system could use a little work. Although the screens mimic a 
 Web browser, the design often reverses what would be intuitive. For example, when you want to make 
 a trade, you have to go to the information screen of the player in question to select the trade 
 option from a list of available actions, instead of choosing to make a trade and then selecting 
 the player you want to acquire.  

  A more serious issue is the locked-down database. As constructed right now, Eastside Hockey Manager 
 allows no editing of player or team names, statistics, or individual characteristics. This is a 
 significant problem, especially if you're a hockey nut who can't live with stat and character oversights. 
 As with most sports games, there are a fair number of these issues here. Fortunately, the vast 
 majority of these mistakes are minor boo-boos involving fringe players. So while there's no way 
 that fringe Leafs grinder Clarke Wilm is half as aggressive as skilled superstar teammate Mats 
 Sundin, it's not like very many people are going to care, since a good 80 percent of NHL player 
 ratings are dead on target. Still, it would be nice if Sports Interactive (or even some enterprising 
 modder) rectified this situation by adding a player editor.  

  Also frustrating is the absence of wide-ranging league-news reports. News about your own team is 
 regularly presented, but there isn't much information offered up about other clubs in your league. 
 Sometimes you feel as if you're playing in a vacuum. You hear the occasional trade rumor through 
 the media, and you get the odd entertaining story about events like NY Ranger fans staging protests 
 against team management after lopsided losses, but you have to manually sift through team rosters 
 or use filtered database search functions to see if players are available for trade -- if they're 
 unhappy, injured, or so on. While this isn't difficult, due to a colorful icon system that lets 
 you see a player's status just by looking at the main team roster screen, more news from around 
 the league would be appreciated.  

  More happenings around the league would also be welcome. There often isn't a whole lot to report. 
 Computer teams don't trade among one another very often, and the NHL trade deadline day tends to 
 come and go without a whimper. Contrast this with the real NHL trade deadline, where a good two 
 dozen deals are made in 24 hours, and you can't help but be disappointed. At least teams in the 
 game sign their own players smartly and make intelligent choices during the amateur and waiver 
 drafts.  

          Player information even notes personal opinions about team chemistry and pride in playing 
 for the team.     

  Still, once you get used to the way that Sports Interactive has laid out the menu system, it's 
 a snap to propose trades, set up lines, negotiate contracts, fire coaches, and so forth. And this 
 is one of the most attractive sports management sims out there. Screens are colorful, varied, and 
 feature a lot of player photos and team logos. Even the fonts here are interesting, because Remes 
 has used a variation of the blocky Toronto Maple Leafs font for all letters and numbers. This might 
 not seem like much of a stylistic innovation on paper, but it does manage to liven up what would 
 normally be staid stat screens. Unfortunately, there is no audio to match this stellar visual presentation, 
 even when manually simulating games.  

  Despite these issues, NHL Eastside Hockey Manager is manna for hockey fans. This is easily one 
 of the best sports management games on the market, and it's second star only to Sports Interactive 
 classics like Championship Manager.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: tute_fruy
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 15, 2006 4:09 pm PT
Review:  This is possibly one of the most fun, and addictive sports games I have ever played. You will find 
 yourself just wanting to progress more and more through the game that has almost every major league 
 you can name and then some. If the NHL is not for you, maybe the CHL is, or maybe the EIHL. What 
 is that you ask? Why the Elite Ice Hockey League of Great Britain. Yes, they even have that. Although 
 you can not play as your team in this game, you have full control as the bench boss over your games 
 in a nice, proffesional layout to watch your games as they are going on. You can make all the moves, 
 personnel wise or player wise. Both fans and the board will react differently to the moves you 
 make. Some they like, love, and then some they hate. If you find you and yourself getting in deep 
 trouble, you may find yourself out of a job. But there is usually always 2 or 3 job openings ready 
 to welcome you to their organization. And while you are coaching club teams, why not give the national 
 teams a try, in all the tournaments there are in real life. This game has it all, you are the manager, 
 you make the choices. Have fun playing it! I highly recommend it! Oh, and do not buy it for the 
 sound, there is none. However that means you can play your own background music! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tharp0qe
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 25, 2005 8:08 am PT
Review:  An in-depth look at the hockey world from a manager's point of view, if you like to build your 
 squad via drafts, trades, and free agency, this is the game for you. The game features the new 
 NHL CBA and has rosters as of August 29, 2005 (a data update will be/has been planned to be released 
 at the end of October for opening night rosters) .
  
  The game, despite is name, is much more than the National Hockey League. It includes the AHL, ECHL, 
 WHL, OHL, QMJHL, German, Slovakian, Swedish, British, Slovenian, Finnish, Russian leagues and a 
 few more, as well as national teams.
  
  The game does not allow you to play as the team on the ice, it gives you the choice to be strictly 
 a General Manager or a GM/Head Coach role. You can hire and fire staff and assign scouts to different 
 you next opponent, individual teams, leagues, countries, or regions and get scouting reports on 
 every player in the game. You can determine what style of game your team will play, what the lines 
 will be, and down to whether a player is allowed to fight or not. 
  
  The major drawback is that there is a lot of clicking involved. 
  
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
