-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Nibiru: Age of Secrets
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/nibiru/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Fascinating story blends the occult with Nazis and sci-fi.
 Puzzles consist of many different styles, from basic brainteasers to traditional conundrums in which you grab everything that isn't nailed down.
 Sharp, detailed visuals include scenes that look like picture postcards of European and Mexican scenery.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Pace is a little on the slow side, in that you have to go through the motions even after figuring out a puzzle.
 Dialogue sequences are wordy, and the voice-acting is atrocious.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 14, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 6.4, 13 Review (s)
User Score: 7.5, 398 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: The Adventure Company
Developer: Future Games
Genre: Adventure
Date:     Aug 31, 2005
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Nibiru features the really nifty type of crackpot science that lends itself to great pulp fiction. 
 

  According to the writings of apocalypse theorist and wannabe archaeologist Zecharia Sitchin, Nibiru 
 is the name that the ancient Sumerians gave to our solar system's 12th planet. It is presently 
 unknown to science because an elliptical orbit typically keeps it well beyond Pluto, although every 
 3,600 years it swings into our neck of the woods to wreak havoc on Earth. This deadly Planet X 
 once smashed our planet in two, possibly killed off the dinosaurs, and caused Noah's flood. And 
 don't look now, but according to the mystic Mayan calendar, it's set to return in 2012.  

          What old-fashioned adventure-game mystery would be complete without a professor and an 
 immaculately furnished drawing room?.     

  Crackpot science? Probably. But it's the really nifty type of crackpot science that lends itself 
 to great pulp fiction like that presented in Nibiru: Age of Secrets, an adventure from Future Games 
 in which you plumb the mysteries of this doomsday world. The game is certainly a lot more credible 
 than Sitchin's ancient astronauts speculations, with a decided  Da Vinci Code -styled plot that 
 makes riddle-solving feel more like a high adventure than a dreary afternoon spent with a book 
 of logic puzzles.  

  You play Martin Holan, an Eastern European student/archivist desperate to escape an office buried 
 under "loads of old papers" as the game begins. He gets his wish -- and maybe a bit more than he 
 bargained for -- when his professor uncle calls with the news that he wants him to investigate a 
 recently discovered Nazi mine for evidence of the existence of Nibiru. According to the prof, Adolf 
 and pals were desperately trying to find the 12th planet (and the presumably advanced technology 
 of its alien citizens) at the close of the war as a way to save the Third Reich from destruction. 
 Research seems to indicate that the Nazis were close to making a huge discovery when the war ended 
 in 1945, and that the gathered evidence may have been secreted away in this mine.  

  With that, you're off to discover if Nibiru is myth or reality. And the search isn't the usual 
 archaeological expedition. Mysterious foes without any qualms about murdering people for information 
 are aware of the mine and its connection with the Nazi search for the missing planet, so there's 
 a definite Indiana Jones vibe to the entire adventure. Although Holan is voiced terribly (and, 
 oddly, without any sort of European accent, despite him apparently hailing from the Czech Republic) 
 there is a lot of character to his exploits. He doesn't whip out a bullwhip or leap across any 
 chasms, but he does pull off stunts like climbing down an apartment building in the dead of night; 
 and he does run across more than one corpse in his travels.  

  Puzzles are all over the map. Virtually every type of brainteaser ever included in an adventure 
 game is on display here. Most of them are fairly traditional in that you do a lot of talking and 
 a lot of gathering objects that need to be combined to open a door, start up a generator, short 
 out the lights in a building with a vase full of water, or feed a guard bad mushrooms so that his 
 resulting diarrhea lets you sneak past him -- that sort of thing. The only annoyance is that you 
 can never skip steps. Picking up those mushrooms, for example, isn't even an option until the guard 
 tells you that he's hungry. You often have to sit through two or three lengthy conversations (all 
 the conversations in Nibiru are extremely long) before puzzle-solving items become available, which 
 becomes tiresome in spots because many solutions can be figured out well before the game chooses 
 to reveal them.  

  Still, all you need to solve most of the problems is some common sense and the patience to explore 
 your surroundings. There are a couple of occasions, however, in which developer Future Games pushes 
 the envelope of the absurdities for which adventure games have long gotten a lot of bad press. 
 The more bizarre solutions aren't overly obscure, but it's still awfully hard to imagine any real-world 
 situation where you would throw firecrackers at nearby birds to attract the attention of an apparently 
 deaf old man, affix a stick of dynamite to a rat to blow open a sealed passageway, or access a 
 fire escape by bribing an old woman with a hot dog (don't ask) .  

  Most of the challenge in Nibiru comes from situations that arise from dealing with unhelpful people 
 and sealed rooms, not from set-piece logic puzzles. There are a few of these in the later stages 
 of the game, however, which all share an interesting Rubik's Cube theme. You need to arrange triangular 
 shapes into a pattern, sort colored beads into a cross, and slide panels into various positions 
 in order to open doors. None of these puzzles are particularly arduous aside from the final one, 
 which is to be expected, because it serves as a climax to the entire game. All can be solved with 
 a reasonable amount of trial and error, so the frustration factor is low even if you're not a fan 
 of these sorts of riddles.  

          Judging by the number of corpses that you encounter, it seems like somebody is taking the 
 Nibiru myth pretty darn seriously..     

  Adding to the adventurous ambience is some impressive production values. Nibiru was first released 
 all the way back in 1998 as the Czech-only Posel Bohu, but it has been so completely overhauled 
 that you would never know it. Most scenes look great, with a tremendous amount of detail. Some 
 of the scenes in Prague and Paris feature such incredible detail that they wouldn't look out of 
 place on picture postcards. The 3D animations aren't as stunning. Models are somewhat blurry, especially 
 in the facial features department, and they move awkwardly. Holan lumbers through his quest so 
 ramrod-straight that he might as well be auditioning for a role as a lamppost.  

  Audio quality is also here and there. The musical score is so understated that it's barely there, 
 and the voice acting is absolutely horrible, with some characters speaking with laughably fake 
 European accents (including a Jewish one that sounds like Mel Brooks doing his familiar riff on 
 an elderly rabbi) and others speaking with no inflections at all. Only a few people provided the 
 voice samples for the entire game, so characters seem to be having conversations with themselves 
 at times. Atmospheric sound effects are rich and lively, though. Sound conveys a feeling of place, 
 whether you're listening to the crickets on a nighttime street in Prague or hearing the rush of 
 water flowing under the bridge beneath your feet in the German countryside.  

  Essentially, Nibiru is a stereotypical classic adventure. Future Games has done this one up in 
 the traditional style popularized way back when by the likes of Sierra and LucasArts, so if you're 
 a fan of this sort of old-school adventuring and don't demand that game designers reinvent the 
 wheel, you can't go wrong here.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (33 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: godziv
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 20, 2008 6:15 pm PT
Review:  It took me a while to try Nibiru ,the title and cover were not very appealing to me.
  
  I love adventure games so I like to try them and finish them even though they might not deserve 
 it. This game does though. It really grows on you, the story is very interesting and you really 
 get into it. Don't get me wrong , this is not the best game on the market but it sure is worth 
 it. It is your usual point and click game with average difficulty puzzles.
  
  What I like about this game was the passion to resolve the mystery. Few puzzles are very difficult 
 but some will take time to figure it out. The graphics are nice , not superb but good enough to 
 have a good experience with the game.
  
  At one point I was sure the game was over .... but no ... it still goes on , that was a good surprise.
 
  
  Fot the price Nibiru is selling right now , it is sure worth a try. Have fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vkain
Rating: 6
Date: May 20, 2008 4:06 pm PT
Review:  From the beginning the game looked promising. I could ignore the shoddy voice acting and robot 
 like movement of the main character because the story was intriguing and the graphics were fine. 
 Then entered the annoying "bad guys" and the game took a turn toward cheesiness instead of dangerous. 
 But I said to myself "Self what is this secret the Mayans have hidden that the Nazis want so bad?" 
 I needed to find out so I persevered and continued my journey. Finally I made it to the end. This 
 was it I was finally going to know the secret. Oh Joy of Joys! But like a soggy fire cracker the 
 ending failed to ignite. 
  I guess that says it all. Anyway if you must play this game either borrow it from a friend or check 
 your bargain bin. You don't need the disc to play it once it's downloaded. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dolfinmagik
Rating: 7
Date: May 18, 2008 6:32 am PT
Review:  It took a long time to get started. The conversations were way to long to describe the plot, or 
 what was expected in the next scene. Also, the script sounded like it was written by an English 
 Major that flunk out of a German University. I felt sorry for the actor who had to speak the lines. 
 With those exceptions, it was a fun game. I haven't finished playing it yet. But I like what I 
 have played so far. I have learned that you can skip the cut scenes, which sure makes the time 
 go quicker. Don't look for fast paced adventure. The character walks, everywhere. I definitely 
 would not pay full price for this game. It reminds me of the original MYST Game with a character 
 walking on the screen. They put a lot of effort into the graphics. I wish they had put more effort 
 into the script. I also noticed a few typographical errors in the subtitles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abinmusic
Rating: 2
Date: May 11, 2008 9:04 am PT
Review:  The story is based on a mysterious World War II project relating to prophecies and ancient culture 
 myths which is exciting from the begining and then ends all of a sudden without even a proper explanation 
 on what the heck was going on out there.
  The graphics and surroundings are nicely presented. So are the puzzles in this game some of which 
 are very challenging. You take a lot of time solving these puzzles and making your way to the finishing 
 stage hoping that some mysterious world war II project would be revealed in the end but then all 
 that happens is BOOOOOOOOOOOOOM, THE END.
  A 'would-be' good story spoiled by poor presentation. It looks like the developers wanted to finish 
 the game somehow cause they were running out of time or money. It feels like a real waste of time. So 
 dont bother playing it even if you get it for free. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saila
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 18, 2008 6:34 pm PT
Review:  The game is quite good, but not too good to be the best. It lacks some substantial elements. First 
 of all, the theme is interesting but the authors could draw better the plot line. The pace could 
 be more dynamic and faster. Sometimes the story can be a little bit too straightforward and predictable. 
 
  As for the main character  Martin Holan  sometimes, he can behave foolishly and naive like a 
 child (the ease of stepping into traps) and sometimes he can be very "rude" for others. 
  The game itself is not too difficult but some puzzles and riddles can make you nervous. Especially 
 when you forgot to save the progress, because there is no "reset" button. And some others with 
 easy solution need you to proceed in some special way that seems a little odd. There are also two 
 time missions but you should not worry about them  there is no danger to die in this game (with 
 one exception however) . There is also no possibility to omit some important things that you could 
 use later in the game  some spots and objects are not available until you unlock others. This 
 way the game is linear and safe. One more thing that was for me somehow "disappointing" - the ending, 
 but it's not that bad, it just leaves some kind of "unfulfillment". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: javanniekerk
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 27, 2007 9:38 pm PT
Review:  What do you get when you mix Third Reich nasties, ancient civilizations and extraterrestrial visitors? 
 While all the ingredients are there for a fascinating, exciting adventure, Nibiru: Age of Secrets 
 fails to do anything innovative or even interesting with them. Instead, the game is a flat, cookie 
 cutter experience that just goes through the motions.
  
  With such rich fodder for an interesting story, I expected Nibiru to deliver an engaging, interesting 
 plot. The beginning of the story seems promising  Martin Nolan is called out of the drudgery of 
 his everyday routine to undertake a mission that starts out with intrigue  a missed rendezvous 
 with a mysterious contact, hidden notes, and a murder all unfold in the first few minutes of the 
 game, setting the stage for what could be a gripping plot. Instead, the game quickly collapses 
 into a flat, unentertaining tale. Much of the exposition comes in lengthy, boring dialogues rather 
 than through gameplay itself, adding to the feeling that you're just pushing buttons until someone 
 tells you more.
  
  This is indicative of one of the game's weakest areas: the puzzle play. The puzzles range from 
 eye-rollingly easy to somewhat challenging, and rarely integrate into the story well (if at all) . 
 Almost every puzzle feels as its sole raison d'etre is to stretch the game out as long as possible. 
 There is a boatload of what I call "gopher" game play; you won't be able to get information or 
 assistance out of anyone unless you run errands for them. Get a pack of cigarettes for a bum, or 
 help a bouncer hook up with his girlfriend (which involves a few more layers of errands first) . 
 This could be more fun (and challenging) if you actually had to put any thought into this. Instead, 
 the characters will tell you exactly what they want, and usually exactly how to get it, so you 
 just have to go through the motions to get it done. Evidently, even the developers realized the 
 silly amount of errand-running involved  at one point, even the main character laments the ridiculous 
 nature of the multilayered bouncer/girlfriend "puzzle".
  
  A major weakness in the gameplay comes from the game's design itself. A scattering of random items 
 are available in each scene to examine, a vast majority of which are completely useless. Once you've 
 examined a useless item, its hotspot will disappear. Promising in theory, but due to the illogical 
 nature of the game, this leaves you scanning the screen repeatedly to figure out which items have 
 been de-activated, and which may actually have some use. The game is also rigidly linear  you 
 won't be able to do things or pick things up until the very moment you need to, and these moments 
 are often triggered by repeated conversations with another character. This could also be acceptable, 
 if it weren't for the way the game was written. Once you've exhausted all conversation topics with 
 someone, Martin will say something along the lines of "We have nothing to talk about". Traipse 
 around some more, click on some random hotspot, and suddenly he'll have something else to talk 
 about  but you only know this by trying again out of sheer frustration. With no logical indication 
 that clicking on some item might have opened up a new line of dialogue, this can leave you wandering 
 aimlessly until you finally try again out of sheer frustration. So, to sum up a large portion of 
 the gameplay: talk to someone repeatedly, examine everything, talk to that person repeatedly again, 
 examine everything lather, rinse, repeat. (Shampooing your hair is more fun, by the way.)
  
  This is made even worse by the fact that conversations are needlessly long and wordy. You'll 
 sit through minutes of conversation that have absolutely no value, for no reason other than to 
 advance to the next portion of the game. While the voice acting is passable (even from the clearly 
 Canadian voice actor that portrays the Eastern European Martin) , the poor material makes it hard 
 to take anything anyone says very seriously. 
  
  I could fill this entire review with complaints about the gameplay, but I'll simply say this: illogical, 
 errand-running puzzles, linear gameplay, pixel hunting drudgery and ridiculous simplicity are all 
 present in abundance here. With most of your required actions clearly dictated to you, there's 
 little solving and a lot of fetching involved. 
  
  Technically speaking, the game fares a little better. The graphics look pretty good, though a bit 
 lifeless. One street in Paris has any sort of background action; unfortunately, it's in the form 
 of the same woman walking the same loop repeatedly. There's nothing really beautiful, striking 
 or memorable to look at, and the environments rarely add much to the feel of the game. 
  
  As mentioned, the voice acting is passable, and at times almost good, especially for an adventure 
 game. The problem is, there is just so much of it. The music is unremarkable, but acceptable. A 
 few dramatic clues will give you the heads up that something interesting is about to happen, and 
 a scattering of ambient noise attempt to breathe life into otherwise boring scenery. 
  
  I played through the game because I wanted so much to like it, but I found very little to enjoy. 
 In the end, I felt as if I just been clicking my mouse a lot for a few hours so that I could get 
 on with my life. It may be Nazi/Alien/Mayan-free, but at least it's interesting.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sharier
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 15, 2007 11:05 pm PT
Review:  Nibiru deals with uncovering an alien secret and Nazi conspiracy and takes you to Europe to South 
 America. This premise itself is kinda old. Therefore the game does not quite feel unique to play. 
 This is a typical point and click style adventure game. Nice typical adventure game graphics, conventional 
 puzzles and conventional thrill make it almost a mediocre game. It does not have great sounds or 
 voice acting. So don't expect to be swept away.
  But then again, its not too disappointing. Its much better than many adventure games that came 
 out in the recent years. The developers did not fiddle with the conventional ideas -- yet it has 
 the elements that makes it easily playable. though you would be sometimes able to predict the game's 
 course, you'd still want to see what's next. In that regard, Nibiru is not a bad game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: travis122_basic
Rating: 5.9
Date: Jun 5, 2007 12:30 pm PT
Review:  If youre looking for a new twist on this genre of games then you will be disappointed. There are 
 few if any breakthroughs with its style and user interface. Some of the puzzles you need to solve 
 are a bit obscure and will have you scratching your head. Others are a little two easy. The game 
 is a step back to an earlier time when these kinds of games were all over the place. So if you 
 have played them before you should enjoy a walk down memory lane. But if this is your first time 
 playing a walk around and talk to people, look at everything, do things in the right order, solve 
 a puzzle for a clue kind of game then you might be bored out of your mind. There isn't any fast 
 action, loading clip after clip into your gun to stay alive, explosion after explosion to keep 
 your heart pounding in this game. I also think the story had a lot of potential but just when you 
 think something incredible is about to happen nothing does. But if you have a weekend to kill and 
 you want a game that will let you sharpen you problem solving abilities than this is a decent game 
 for that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: morty53
Rating: 4.9
Date: Apr 2, 2007 10:38 pm PT
Review:  The story starts out and looks very interesting, but as you go there are serious problems with 
 the plot. It seemed like a plot that was worse than a B movie and it was very short.
  You start off as Martin Holan, and you get involves in this plot that involves the Nazis and extraterrestrial 
 life in Mayan civilization. Sounds very intriguing, but as you go the plot execution goes downhill. 
 First off, the character you play is not very bright and not at all like a character that is fun 
 to play like Indiana Jones. He is also a pansy who won't touch murky water because I don't want 
 to get my hands dirty. He isn't able to figure out about the murders even though the game makes 
 it painfully obvious. Second, the plot is very predictable and doesn't make sense in places. Most 
 of the plot is trying to do annoying puzzles that feel very contrived like searching for ketchup 
 to give to a woman so she lends you her cane so you can pull down a shoot that is only eight feet 
 up but your character is a wimp and can't jump. Another one is giving a girl a marble so you can 
 get a firecracker to attract the attention of a nearly deaf person. I wish you could spend more 
 of the game in the few cool places like the mine and Mayan temples, instead of spending most of 
 your time trying to get to them and finishing those parts pretty quickly. Also, the villain is 
 a whiny character that isn't very intimidating. Martin is even stupid enough to try to help the 
 villain out because he doesn't figure things out. There is also a point where the villain should 
 of died and is walking around like nothing happened to him the next day. To be fair, the graphics 
 were good. However, you could only look at places from one angle like you were walking around in 
 a picture. The voice acting was terrible and many people had the same voices.
  
  Overall, I would say the game looked promising, but they needed better writers. Also, make puzzles 
 that make you feel like you achieved something rather than just did every possible action. And 
 a good main character would really help. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedneckGamer87
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 2, 2007 6:08 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: In this game you play Martin Holan, an Eastern European student/archivist desperate to 
 escape an office buried under loads of old papers as the game begins. He gets his wish -- and maybe 
 a bit more than he bargained for -- when his professor uncle calls you up with the news that he wants 
 him to investigate a recently discovered Nazi mine for evidence of the existence of a place called 
 Nibiru. According to the proffessor, Adolf and friends were desperately trying to find the 12th 
 planet (and the presumably advanced technology of its alien citizens) at the close of the war as 
 a way to save the Third Reich from utter destruction. Research seems to show that the Nazis were 
 close to making a huge ass discovery when the war ended in 1945, and that the gathered evidence 
 may have been secreted away in this mine. So you pertty much go of if Nibiru is a real place or 
 not. Thout out the game there is almost every type of puzzle you can think of that was in every 
 type of adaventure game to come out. But most of it is just common sence stuff and it take a long 
 time to explore places. All in all the game play is like long running Myst Series.
  
  Graphics: The 3-D Enviroment is amazing and have great detail. I found the Character models to 
 be quite emotionless, they praticly had no facial experetion to them and the charater models where 
 somewhat blurry. Other then that the graphics where great.
  
  Sound: The Sound Track was appropiate but dialogue sequences are wordy, and the voice-acting was 
 really bad, they should of done a better job on that. *Sigh* To bad what can you do other then 
 send them an e-mail saying how bad they worked on the voice acting.
  
  Value: This game is a good game to play again, It has an intresting story line and deals with an 
 history Sci-fi mix which is pretty neat. The only thing I found that sucked was the voice acting 
 and it was a bit on the slow side just trying to figger out the puzzles.
  
  So I give this game 8 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SKOPY291
Rating: 5.2
Date: Jan 15, 2007 7:42 pm PT
Review:  I'm not really sure how to begin this review. I don't want to be outwardly inappropriate when I 
 do a review. I'd like to be fair. How do I do this? Okay, well I guess I'll just write this.
  
  Nibiru: Age of Secrets, besides having a brilliantly clever name is brilliantly bland. The 
 story was an interesting blend of Indiana Jones and that other point and click adventure over there. 
 Here's the story: The Nazis blah blah with some advanced technology yadda yadda. Now you're in 
 the middle of this evil thing and people die and then you go to a far off country and something 
 happens. It was very hard for me to keep up the straight to keep paying attention. Incredibly wordy 
 expositions and back story drown this game before it even begins. The backgrounds are nice at first 
 but as time goes on become less than interesting. Voice acting contributing to nothing but making 
 me sure that I am in the middle of an old 1930's B movie with stereotyping all sloppy in it. I 
 half expected to see a Caucasian actor jumping around as a Central American worker. Maybe I'm being 
 a bit too vague. I should be a bit blunter: The game has a nice story for a moment, assuming you 
 can stay awake long enough to listen to it. Listening isn't easy either, because the Voice acting 
 is silly and the mouths don't even sync properly I needed a piece of chewing gum after watching 
 them. Finally the background was mediocre by modern standards. Gameplay is nice. That's a positive 
 right? The puzzles range from the ridiculously simple to the how the heck was I supposed to figure 
 that out? I love point and click games... there is something soothing about them but this game 
 made me want to pull my teeth out. When you figure out what you're doing you'll have to walk back 
 and forth between several pages of static scenery multiple times to make it finally work. But wait 
 you're not done because now the individual that you're doing a favor for wants ketchup on that 
 hotdog... back again... now mustard...? I almost destroyed my computer luckily I had hair. Being 
 silly again? This isn't a comedy site? Get to the point? Alright gameplay: fun if you like a range 
 of problems to solve that sometimes take longer than they should to complete.
  
  I'm not by any means saying that I hate this game... I just expect a lot out of my adventure games. 
 They are adventures after all and should be fun to play through not a chore. This game is a bit 
 short and if you can muster the courage maybe could be fun. I, on the other hand, will wait for 
 something much more worthy of an adventure game because this just wasn't it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MadTricksEST
Rating: 6.2
Date: Oct 1, 2006 1:58 pm PT
Review:  Yes, it was short
  Not-so-good story imo, great graphics, average gameplay, and bad
  voiceacting. Puzzles were very easy even for me. But i liked them because they were quite logical. 
 Hardest puzzle was this colored balls puzzle, what wasn't so hard after all. Talking with people 
 isn't really my favourite thing in adventure games and in NiBiRu I didn't have to do this very 
 much. Story lacked from every aspect and ending wasn't better. After playing great game as BS , 
 NiBiRu seems pretty bad.
  But i still enjoyed playing it. It took about 8 hours to finish. I would recommend it to them who 
 are new in genre or like easy-logical-puzzles.
  
  Gameplay: 6/10
  Voiceacting: 3/10
  Graphics: 8/10
  Story: 6/10
  Puzzles: 7/10
  Difficulty: Easy
  
  Total: 6/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: orian86
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 23, 2006 10:39 am PT
Review:  The story is interesting with a lot of unexpected turns and well-researched information. The game 
 is based on conspiracies, but makes perfectly sense while playing.
  
  The puzzles are very hard, not challenging but completely based on the luck of clicking on the 
 right object. If you like puzzle games, go play Myst or Dreamfall, this game is only worth playing 
 because of the story. I kinda like the inventory with the option to combine objects. The environments 
 are very detailed. The cinematics are out of sync with the sound.
  
  I recommend this game only with a decent walthrough on your other monitor, because the puzzles 
 are a waste of your time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Voldy26
Rating: 4.5
Date: Aug 7, 2006 11:11 am PT
Review:  This game is nothing but a bad ripoff of its own predecessor, Black Mirror, with some Indiana Jones 
 and the Fate of Atlantis thrown in for good measure. It disappoints in its every aspect. The plot 
 seems to have been added as an afterthought, there is a lot of redundant dialogue and pointless 
 backtracking that apparently serves no other purpose than to annoy the player, not one of the locations 
 strikes one as beautiful or original (in fact, some of them have been copied from Black Mirror 
 almost pixel for pixel) , there is very little ambient music (some of it copied from Black Mirror, 
 as well) , and again you have to spend lots of time searching every pixel of the screen. The puzzles 
 are good, but they, too, are for the most part modifications of the ones in Black Mirror. To sum 
 it up, if you want a good adventure game, this is not it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Astral999
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 11, 2006 10:50 am PT
Review:  When I was around eight years old, my uncle bought me the original Myst. I was too young to understand 
 any of it, but as I got older I remembered it and wanted to play a game like it. Around Easter 
 I picked up a copy of Nibiru, and I was drawn in. I found the game quite enjoyable, with a tolerable 
 plot, immersive atmosphere, and reasonably difficult puzzles. If you haven't played many games 
 in this genre, then this isn't a bad start. I have only two complaints: For one, the voice acting 
 is the worst I've ever heard, and secondly, the ambient scenes are sometimes marred by the high 
 compression of the images and video, and since all of the visuals in this game except for the characters 
 are pre rendered images and videos, this can make some parts of the game less attractive than others. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mgarribaldi
Rating: 6.6
Date: Jun 7, 2006 2:19 pm PT
Review:  Yes... well... this is a game that starts out promising, gets quite good near the middle and then 
 slides all the way down to the bottom near the end, only to end up in a muddy puddle that makes 
 all of what you have gone through to get there a waste of time.
  
  The plot itself is revolves around ancient Mayan legends which question the possibility that they 
 were visited by aliens from another planet (hence the name Ni. Bi. Ru. - the name of the mythical 
 twelfth planet.) During the time of World War Two the German scientists latched on to it and tried 
 to uncover the many secrets of alleged alien technology, which the Third Reich then tried to adapt 
 to the war effort (and how many times have we played out THAT scenario?) Most of the time the play 
 was fairly well executed and there were moments when I felt I was playing Broken Sword all over 
 again. However that's as good as it got.
  
  As has already been stated in other reviews, the voice acting is terrible, real "b-movie" type 
 stuff that is just so clichd as to be painful, however the scenery is picture-postcard stuff, 
 gorgeous vistas with nice little touches put in, such as the occasional pedestrian walking past 
 or the odd vehicle driving by. Minor animation adds to the atmosphere and there is no shortage 
 of flickering light bulbs and rain... sometimes even in the same scene. Even the leaves on the 
 trees move with butterflies and fireflies flitting about (the only thing they didnt include was 
 Bambi)
  
  One thing I did notice (along with a few other people) is that in the very first scene you are 
 on a bridge with a couple of other characters, and if you hang around too long they all disappear 
 completely and you cant leave the bridge (restart game!) This seems to be the only bug I found 
 so far...
  
  [*** SPOILERS START HERE ***]
  
  Anyhoo, on to a (very) brief synopsis. (See the main review for a full story.) You play the part 
 of Martin Holan, who despite being an Eastern European Student seems to have a decidedly STRONG 
 American accent! Things start off with a phone call from your uncle, a professor, who sends you 
 to Prague to find out about the discovery of an old German mine, said to contain the secrets of 
 an old investigation into Ni. Bi. Ru, the mythical twelfth planet.
  
  Before you can go to Prague you need to get your papers authenticated, and this is where you come 
 across your first murder. Your contact has been killed because she knew too much so now you have 
 to solve a puzzle or two before you can leave the country.
  
  When you finally reach Prague you find that the camp around the mine is now under the command of 
 the Army due to the discovery of explosives. You also meet a mysterious character who claims to 
 be a colleague, but who is not who he claims to be.
  
  Following the discovery of a second murder, and finally having gained entry to the caves, you discover 
 various bits and pieces in the mines which confirm that alien technology has been in use, and you 
 follow clues which then lead you to Paris.
  
  In Paris you visit your uncle, the professor, and he reveals that he has been following the Ni. Bi. Ru 
 project all his life, and you must now go to Mexico to conclude it. On return to your hotel you 
 discover the murderous colleague whom you met at Prague, has gotten there ahead of you, and he 
 eventually kills your uncle and steals some vital objects that you need in your quest in Mexico.
 
  So now you go to Mexico for the final part of the game and, to cut a very long story short, eventually 
 uncover the story behind the Mayan myth of Ni. Bi. Ru, and get to visit the alien lab beneath one 
 of their major temples.
  
  [*** SPOILERS END HERE ***]
  
  
  From start to finish the story-arc is quite well thought out but a little shaky in a couple of 
 places. Execution of the story is tolerable but not without its shortcomings. There is one part 
 of the game, quite early on, where the player has to avoid leaving a hotel room by the main door, 
 and has to find another way of getting out of the building. Having found and used this alternative 
 exit he immediately appears outside the very door he shouldnt have used, which places him in the 
 very corridor he was trying to avoid in the first place! BAD continuity!
  
  There are some lengthy cut-scenes in this adventure (almost mini-movies) and the insertion of logic 
 puzzles seems to ramp up near the end instead of being distributed evenly throughout the game. 
 Interaction with the background could have been more consistent (sometimes right-clicking instead 
 of left-clicking to get a result.) Also, when hovering over an interactive object the cursor would 
 change colour instead of changing shape, sometimes making it a little hard to spot, especially 
 of the background was being heavily animated.
  
  Lateral thinking puzzles (as opposed to pure logic puzzles) were a bit obscure in some places (rats 
 and dynamite!!) but over-all not too unfriendly. There are also a couple of times sequences in 
 the game and if you do die, you get re-spawned to try again with no penalties. I managed to finish 
 this game in a little less than 8 hours from start to finish so not too taxing really.
  
  My conclusion is that this game promises a lot, and delivers a little during the central part, 
 but has a VERY weak and abrupt ending, relying on difficulty rather than any real sense of timing 
 or thought to complete the final sequence.
  
  If you are a newbie to this type of adventure then yeah go for it. I have played it once but having 
 completed it I wont be playing it again. Compared to Broken Sword I would say that Ni. Bi. Ru lacks 
 a certain something, a certain charm which is the core of a good adventure. Nice try but it just 
 misses the mark for me.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Apekiller
Rating: 1.4
Date: Apr 1, 2006 2:26 am PT
Review:  I like adventure games, quests, and was looking forward to playing this game.
  
  Well, where should I start... I've got a good pc so I turned every setting I could find to maximum. 
 :)
  
  Then I found a bug, lol. With antialiasing enabled from the game settings, the animations play 
 slower, and when someone says something, his lips are still moving for some time after the audio 
 part is over... that pretty much sucks.
  
  Then I disabled antialiasing cos it was annoying to hear the sound first and then wait for them 
 to finish their mimic... after some very long in-game movies... the game finally started.
  
  I was somewhere on a bridge, and was apparently late in meeting someone. I walked arround for 
 a while and then noticed the characters from the bridge (the painter and the other tourists) disappeared. 
 Yes, they disappeared and I couldn't leave he bridge.. so... uninstall. I choose "Broken" for this 
 game.
  
  One good this though: It looked promicing, like it would have athmosphere.. unfortunatelly I couldn't 
 play it because of all the bugs therefore it now has a poor review. :)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: skizzo2711
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 22, 2006 1:38 pm PT
Review:  Overview
  
  NiBiRu: Age of Secrets is about the so called planet X, also known as Nibiru. It has been suggested 
 by some that this planet is in fact the 12th planet of our solar system and that it completes one 
 elliptical cycle around the sun every 3600 years.
  
  In this game you play an archaeologist and linguist from Eastern Europe, called Martin Holan. It 
 all starts when Martin gets a phone call from his uncle, who asks him to check out an old mine 
 from the Nazis, which has recently been discovered in Czechia. Martin gladly accepts the assignment 
 and this is the beginning of an adventure that will take him beyond Czechia to France and Mexico.
 
  
  
  The game
  
  The gameplay is pretty decent. You can relate to the character, although there are a few things 
 about him, that are improbable or unlovable (Ill come to this later) . 
  
  As mentioned before, you play Martin Holan, an archaeologist and linguist, who travels to Czechia 
 to investigate a recently discovered Nazi mine. Before he goes there, he is instructed by his uncle 
 about the planet Nibiru and the tales that surround it. A rather disturbing aspect of the game 
 is that Martins uncles reply to Martins statement that surely those tales of planet X are fables, 
 is that he at first didnt believe them either, but now he is sure. And apparently, this is enough 
 for Martin to believe in it too, since no more questions about the authenticity of Nibiru are asked. 
 So, Martin sets of to Prague to meet a contact of his uncle, and here is where the story really 
 begins. Of course, things go wrong from the start and Martin finds himself on his own to find this 
 contact.
  
  As said, the gameplay is fairly simple and the only times that you would find yourself really stuck 
 is when youve missed an object (this happened to me once) . This means pixel hunting, a much feared 
 phenomenon among adventure gamers. It basically comes down to systematically moving your mouse 
 pointer over the screen until you find an object that you hadnt noticed before. But other than 
 that, there are only a few tedious puzzles which can get you stranded.
  
  The major part of the game consists of conversation. Just talk to the people you meet for as many 
 times as you can, because Martin will inform you when theres nothing to talk about. Then there 
 is the aspect of combining and using objects. This too is made fairly easy, since the objects start 
 to flash whenever you hold them over another object with which you should combine them.
  
  You arent given much freedom in the game. You can walk from one screen to another sometimes, but 
 thats it. No travelling around in the city of Prague, for example.
  
  On overall, the puzzles and combining of objects, makes pretty much sense and if it doesnt, youve 
 probably gotten some clues from an NPC (Non Playable Character) . There are a few puzzles however, 
 which can be real brainteasers, the ball puzzle being the worst of them. This puzzle is a lot like 
 the (in) famous Rubiks cube. You have to think in the same way to solve this one, trial and error 
 isnt a solution for this one, because it will simply drive you insane. But those puzzles arent 
 extensive in the game.
  There was one point in the game where I seriously started questioning the ethics of the creators 
 of the game. Solving puzzles by the way of combining objects is fun of course, but in my opinion 
 you have to be pretty sick in the head if you come up with combining a rat with dynamite and matches, 
 after which you set the rat loose in a hole to blow up a locked door. Luckily this is only a computer 
 game, but still, this doesnt exactly make you like Martin more. Ive also noticed one situation 
 in which I stumbled upon a discontinuity: I had found an object, on which Martin made the remark 
 that it looked exactly like the one that somebody had given me, while I hadnt even gotten that 
 object from that person yet. But these are discontinuities that you can overlook.
  
  
  The controls
  
  The game is point and click and fairly straight forward in that. Whenever you 
 move the mouse over something with which you can interact, the colour of the pointer changes and 
 you see the name of the object in the top of your screen. A left click will let you interact with 
 the object in the way it was programmed (use it, pick it up, or something else) , while a click 
 with the right mouse button will make Martin give you a description of the object. If the object 
 is of no further value to you in the game, the possibility to click it again, will disappear. This 
 makes the game pretty straightforward, since you dont run the risk of trying to combine or use 
 objects in any way, if they are unimportant for the game. But hey, isnt that the fun of an adventure? 
 Trying to solve the riddles and puzzles without sometimes knowing whether that object will aid 
 you or not? By removing this possibility from the game, the gameplay is cut down considerably and 
 the game becomes much easier to finish. Ill let you decide for yourselves whether this is a good 
 thing or not.
  
  
  The graphics
  
  This game was released in 2005, but to be totally honest: the graphics dont show that. Not that 
 the graphics are awful, but theyre not exactly the quality of Still Life or even Syberia II, which 
 came out in 2004, and in my opinion, Syberia part 1 (2002!) looked better too.
  
  The locations look very good, so no complaints about those. Fixed backgrounds, which some wont 
 like, but I have no problems with those whatsoever, especially not if they look very nice, as is 
 the case with NiBiRu. They also capture the atmosphere of the game quite nicely. The Nazi mine 
 for example, looks very sinister.
  
  The characters however, dont look that good. They look fairly simple and especially their posture 
 looked very unrealistic to me, as did their movements. I wouldnt call the graphics bad, but you 
 can certainly expect something more from a game published in 2005.
  
  
  The sound
  
  First, the music. The music is very nice. It is not annoyingly present, but it just gives that 
 nice extra touch to the scenes. Although I sometimes found it a little bit exaggerated when having 
 solved a puzzle. Of course its nice that Ive finished a puzzle, but to especially reward me with 
 some music? It isnt disturbing however and hey, you might actually like it.
  
  On to the sound effects. Nothing much to say about those, since they arent that special, but what 
 can you of course expect? If you have a part in the game where you poor water from a bucket into 
 a bowl, you hear running water. There simply isnt much more to make of that, so no negative points 
 there.
  
  The voices however are different. Sometimes you can simply hear some noise in the conversation. 
 And there are numerous moments in the game where Martin suddenly starts speaking softly, while 
 the next thing he says is in its original volume again. Thats just messy.
  The other point I would like to make about the voices is the following: although the voices itself 
 are pretty good, the accents are awful! You have for example an elderly guy who speaks with a German 
 accent. I can tell you now, that no English speaking German will ever talk this way. Martin however, 
 coming from Eastern Europe, has a flawless American accent. This makes the game a bit weird on 
 overall: you have guys with such an exaggerated accent, that they loose all credibility and then 
 you have Martin with no accent whatsoever, which doesnt exactly contribute to the fact that hes 
 from Eastern Europe.
  
  To go short: the music and sound effects are good and contribute to the atmosphere, but the voices 
 are just done sloppy and if the creators had put more effort into that, the game certainly would 
 have had more atmosphere and the characters of the game would seem more realistic.
  
  
  Overall
  
  An okay game, gameplay-like. The story is entertaining, albeit far fetched, but 
 thats the case with many (adventure) games, so that shouldnt stop you to play it. The graphics 
 are doable, although the characters dont look very detailed and move rather unrealistic. The voices 
 could have been better too, but they arent that bad that you cannot make out a thing they say, 
 even though the accents could as well have been left out, as is the case with Martin. The total 
 playing time isnt that long, I would guess about an hour or 10, mainly because of objects that 
 you dont need, become unclickable. The simple modification of staying able to click them, would 
 have added to the duration of the game. The game isnt hard, so its playable for everyone, not 
 just the advanced adventure player. If you find the game not too expensive and would like to entertain 
 yourself for about two or three days, NiBiRu is certainly a good way to do this.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: brianpoetzel
Rating: 7.3
Date: Mar 8, 2006 12:45 pm PT
Review:  This game is good for an adventure genre game. The graphics are good. The gameplay is fluid. The 
 puzzles were inventive but not so hard that I couldnt figure them out on my own. The story is 
 pretty gripping, at least until 2/3 of the way through.
  
  I only have a few complaints about the game. Firstly the voice acting is just horrible. The protagonist 
 is plain dull. He speaks in the same monotone voice no matter what hes doing. In one scene he 
 comes across a dead body and speaks with the same emotion as opening a can of soup. 
  
  The second complaint I have is the ending. There wasnt one. The game just ends without any answers 
 to the questions that the game puts forward. Nibiru? Whats that? Aliens? From where and why? What 
 was the point? I dont know because nothing was resolved. 
  
  I did enjoy the game. It kept me coming back for more. It unfolded almost like a book. It wasnt 
 till it was over that it left a bitter aftertaste. Im not sorry I bought it. Quite the contrary. 
 It was very entertaining for the week or so it took me to beat it.
  
  If you like adventure games I do recommend it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bjbigham
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 28, 2006 1:30 am PT
Review:  There are so many really really BAD adventure games out there today that it doesn't take much to 
 rise to the top of the pile. In the case of NiBiRu, there are enough good elements to overcome 
 the bad.
  
  The graphics are excellent for the most part, with nice details (including movement in the background, 
 which most games lack) . Its muted colors add the to atmosphere, and environmental elements like 
 thunder and lightning help create "realism."
  
  The storyline is okay, although the main character is not very well delineated. He's the generic 
 game hero with no personality and no sense of humor.
  
  There are few "puzzles" per se, other than the normal pixel-hunting find the inventory object and 
 use it type, and most of those are VERY easy (with the exception of a couple of completely illogical 
 ones like the dynamite and the rat) . The "real" puzzles are equally easy, with the exception of 
 the "colored ball" puzzle. I found this one impossible without a walkthrough (although maybe I'm 
 just not as smart as I thought I was) . 
  
  The worst part of the game was that it ended abruptly with an anticlimax that left me wondering 
 "is that it?" Puzzles should increase in difficulty, and end with the most challenging task. Instead, 
 the endgame here is ridiculously easy and the plotline just fizzles. I got the feeling the programmers 
 were facing a deadline so they just hurried the ending and finished the game off.
  
  And although there wasn't too much walking back and forth between locations, it was VERY annoying 
 to wait while the protagonist walked every so S L O W L Y .... I felt like telling him to run, 
 for Pete's sake.
  
  I can't even remember the music! I did like the fact that the game can be played without the CD.
 
  
  Okay, after all these complaints, you might get the idea that I didn't like the game -- but I did! 
 Taken element by element, it wasn't great. But for some reason I enjoyed it quite a bit and actually 
 FINISHED it (which, believe me, isn't common) .
  
  It's not on the level of Syberia or The Longest Journey, but it's above average. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grand-Imperator
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 19, 2006 10:04 pm PT
Review:  As you can probably tell I'm about to crucify this title as my brain cannot take much more of the 
 absurdity of the whole end product.
  
  The game designerrs of Nibiru made a fair effort with their previous Adventure "Black Mirror". 
 That game did many things right and although not a 90+ Classic, it came v close (see my review 
 on that) . Somehow they did not learn much from that attempt and improved only 2 things that I can 
 note, namely the Protagonist's voice actor and the character animations. Sadly they only kept some 
 of that games virtues (such as the intuitive interface) . For the most part the rest of the game 
 went horribly wrong.
  
  My assesment:
  
  The graphics - As mentioned above the character animations were improved, were fluid and generally 
 well done. Backgrounds followed the same format of it's predecessor (2D backdrops with 3D animations 
 on occasion) . Sadly this time the design of the scenery was far too bland for my taste and mostly 
 average, the animations were few and far between. All in all the game fared ok in this department.
 
  
  The sound - The protagonist has a decent actor (an improvement on Black Mirror's by far) , sadly 
 the remainder of the cast sounded very confused. Some were clearly poor stereotypical German and 
 Mexican accents others were some mixed hybrid (one poor man in Mexico sounded like an Irishman 
 trying to impersonate a German who is really French!!) . One of the villains sounded like he occcasionally 
 took an influx of helium, his voice reaching near comical decibal levels. 
  As for the music, it kicks in at very sporadic intervals with no real relevance to the surroundings 
 or situation you are in - All in all quite poor.
  
  The Story - In a word ...... GARBAGE! The initial premise is quite promising, what with an abandoned 
 Nazi mine, an experimental project shrouded in secrecy, Mayan ruins, even extraterrestials. Unfortunately 
 the designers were clearrly confused and failed to combine these elements into a cohesive adventure. 
 The outcome was a mishmash of patched scenes and locales that failed to grab my attention in any 
 way. I felt like a ping-pong ball going to different environs never staying long enough to savour 
 the setting and to top it off a completely pointless ending that left me wishing I had not wasted 
 my precious time in the first place. they clearly took ideas from "Indiana Jones", "Broken Mirror" 
 even "A Moment Of Silence" but never remained consistent enough to remain interesting.
  
  The Puzzles - In two words ...... Pure excrement!! What were they thinking?!!! The puzzles in this 
 game are absolutely atrocious. Bearing in mind this game is supposed to be serious in nature all 
 I can do is recoil in pain at what transpired in the annals of Nibiru.
  Seriously I shall list 2 examples of puzzles throughout the game and leave you to decide, my brain 
 still is recovering from the sheer irritation I experienced.
  Example 1: You find a secret door with with no apparent opening mechanism. So a stick of dynamite 
 you obtain will do nicely. Enter a box of matches and hey presto an explosion results. Oh dear 
 this pop was insufficient to blast it apart so we logically assume we need a combustable material 
 and/or more than one stick of dynamite right?! ...... WRONG. We must find a box, a ruler, a can 
 of beans and a can opener to create a trap for a nice rodent. We then get the vermin, strap a piece 
 of dynamite to it and send the suicidal rat via the crevice created by the first explosion. I rest 
 my case.
  Example 2: ..... You need to pull down a ladder in a back alley and conveniently a beggar woman 
 has a walking stick you can use. Enter the typical fetch puzzle with her needing a nice hotdog 
 from a nearby stand. After providing the said hotdog it apparently was not to her liking and she 
 needs one with only ketchup. So back we go to get the amended order only to find you have just 
 gone to the only Hotdog Restaurant on the planet without ketchup on the menu. So we get an plain 
 one instead. The quest continues with the hero having to find a ketchup bottle in the nearby Hotel 
 .... need I go on?!
  All in all the puzzles are only more believable and challenging towards the end in the Mayan temple. 
 Prior to that they are atrocious acts that I would care to forget!!
  
  The Atmosphere - None. I never once felt this game flowed. It was totally linear, I felt herded 
 through the whole experience, the enviroments were average and lacking in substance and certainly 
 did not mix well, decent puzzles were nigh non-existent and forced all the way, voice acting and 
 music was under par. Oh yes and it was way too short, I did it in less than 9 hours.
  
  My verdict - play "Black Mirror" if you want a good game from this developer. Better still play 
 the classics again such as "Longest Journey" or "Monkey Island" or hidden gems like "Dark Earth". 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joe_calzone
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 16, 2006 9:09 am PT
Review:  Nibiru is supposed to be an extra planet in the solar system. I don't realize what this has to 
 do with the game... it just doesn't fit.
  
  The characterizations are weak, the plot in only partly developed and the ending is plainly disappointing, 
 senseless and abrupt.
  
  On the other side, few puzzles are hard, but all in all the game is quite equilibrated.
  
  
 I'm not saying the game is a waste of time, but it could have been a lot better and deeper. There 
 are far better adventures out there.
  
  Enough said, buy it only if you find it at q _low_ price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alep-om
Rating: 7.6
Date: Feb 10, 2006 10:32 am PT
Review:  Good features :
  Great graphics with very variable environments like nature ,ancient places streets ,mansions ,mines 
 and caves .
  Although its storyline is somehow traditional ( searching for ancient secrets and artifacts before 
 the bad guys find them) but it's enjoyable.
  You will enjoy "the social intelligenceof your character so your character will find no difficulties 
 in distracting a guardian or making an officer leave his work for some minutes and doing other 
 things by using logical clever and comic tricks wich makes the game really enjoyable .
  
  Bad features :
  most of the vital puzzles (unlocking mechanisms and doors and revealing passwords) 
 in this game are stolen from old games without slight changes ,but the game has some great puzzles 
 of it's own and in all cases there is not more than 7 puzzles in the game that are worth thinking.
 
  That's why this game may suit only beginners in adventure gaming world .
  most of the time the objects that are not required to solve a puzzle can be examined once so you 
 will know what you need and what you don't by just one other click on the same objects, and sometimes 
 you cannot move to another area ! just stand in an area to examine 10 things 8 of them can be examined 
 once and the necessary 2 can be examined over and over until you solve the puzzle , so this game 
 is not very challenging but it's not too easy anyway , and like I said it's great for beginners.
 
  The music tracks are repeated , every time you try a puzzle or examine something important the 
 same music track will play but since the voice acting is really great the sound score won't go 
 down too much .
  
  I think this game is a great choice for a beginner adventure gamer it has great graphics enjoyable 
 story and nice but old puzzles with medium difficulty
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mardigan76
Rating: 5.2
Date: Jan 31, 2006 4:44 pm PT
Review:  I would have given this a much better score, except for one thing. This game has one of the worst 
 endings I have ever had the misfortune of experiencing. There was a great storyline going, with 
 plenty of build-up. Then, just when you least expect it, the game is over, and you're not really 
 sure how it ended. Don't waste your time or your money on this game. 
  The game play itself was pretty good. The puzzles were challenging, yet not ridiculous. The graphics 
 were good. The only problem I had with the game play itself was having to walk back and forth between 
 two areas. This happened a lot during the game; and since there was no run feature, this is what 
 you spent a majority of your time doing.
  Anyway, don't get your hopes up by playing this game; because it will only bring you down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Terraflax
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 23, 2006 11:34 am PT
Review:  This was an interesting game. I dont play adventure games often but this games subject matter was 
 right down my alley, and it was fun solving the puzzles, some were pretty difficult but thats why 
 they're fun. The graphics for this game are well done, not mind blowing, (2d backgrounds, 3d character 
 models) but they do the job of immersing you in the story. Sound was good, from what i remember 
 most of the dialogue is spoken, and the ambience from the envirenments sounds good. This game has 
 no replay value, sadly you probably wont want to touch the game ever again after you've finished 
 it. 
  
  It is a great way to spend some time. Not much more to say 
::::::

::::::
UserName: view136
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 10, 2006 3:47 pm PT
Review:  I enjoyed the graphics of the game. The story is ok, as well as the game-play. So why the bad reviews 
 all other? Maybe because it does not have the felling that a good adventure makes you feel. You 
 won't be impressed indeed by anything special, but the graphics which are great in my opinion. 
 The sound is fine too. So I could say the only bad thing about it would be the feeling and the 
 character personalities with which a gamer should identify. At least the impression of it. I guess 
 the characters animation could have been improved. Besides all that, I would give the game 8,7. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stroganov
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 31, 2005 8:29 am PT
Review:  I believe the word which would describe this game best would be: uninspired.
  I had some great (well, maybe not GREAT, but solid) expectations for this game. Having played The 
 Black Mirror I imagined this game to be pretty much the same. Nice but dreary pre-rendered graphics 
 with a rather slow but intriguing storyline with poor narration. I expected more of the same (which 
 was not exactly a bad thing, really) . However I was wrong, the player isn't given as much as an 
 opening cut-scene before he is thrown into the streets of Prague. The graphics are still there, 
 and slightly better too, and the story seemed promising but the same flaws were still there: uninteresting 
 and slightly absurd, stupid, characters. Action-triggered hot-spots, lots of pixel hunting and 
 some rather far-fetched solutions to puzzles.
  
  The main character seemed much more interesting than the first one mainly because he talked without 
 stopping for a second every second word. He sounded upbeat and motivated... sadly he sounded like 
 this all the way through the game even at times where you would expect him to sound sad or scared. 
 Nope, our protagonist continues to sound like a Sunday-afternoon infomercial.
  
  This would have been forgivable had the creators left us with a good story, but they try and fail. 
 The story starts out intriguing enough but slowly loses momentum and then seems to be running out 
 of ideas. The antagonists are generically evil and don't have much of a story behind them while 
 in the second half of the game the story tries so very hard to keep on going, knowing full well 
 that most of the actions undertaken by our upbeat protagonist seem quite random. The ending itself 
 is by far the most abrupt and random ending ever, leaving it up to the player to tie up a whole 
 bunch of lose ends.
  
  And if this wasn't enough tedium the game has the player running to and fro locations solving tedious 
 problems for uninspired side-characters.
  
  If you are a casual gamer looking for a good adventure-game I would suggest you stay away from 
 this game. However if you are a hard-core adventure-gamer who is willing to overlook the tedious 
 flaws of this game, like me, I suggest you try it. Chances are you will derive some amount of pleasure 
 from it but once you've finished it you will put it away and never play it again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bagman34
Rating: 7.2
Date: Dec 31, 2005 6:52 am PT
Review:  Nibiru is a classic adventure game in which your character has to find clues and tools to help 
 him solve the mystery that his uncle presented to him. Along the way Martin (your hero) wil explore 
 the city of Prague, an underground German archive, London, and Mexico. All of the environments 
 are well detailed and help greatly in solving the puzzles by making things very clear, this is 
 a very visual game and finding the items you need is very important. The puzzles usually require 
 you to make more than a few steps to solve them and can require some creative thinking, but none 
 too hard to figure out. The greatest problems in the puzzle solving is the linear nature of the 
 puzzles, you can't even attempt on step until you've finished the one before it. If you know you 
 need some wine, you can't get it until you have a glass. Many times the key is talking to characters 
 multiple times to get the information you need out of them. Many times if your stuck, go talk to 
 everyone one more time and someone tells you what you need to know. The voice acting is terrible, 
 but forgivable. 
  The story line is fairly good and will keep you working to find out what happens next, like a good 
 Tomb Raider adventure without all the shooting and jumping. The ending was not what I was hoping 
 for, but not terrible, a little bit of a let down after all that work, but getting there is half 
 the fun... right? Overall this is a good game to play if your waiting for something really good 
 to come along and don't want to spend a ton of money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aghamal
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 25, 2005 4:21 pm PT
Review:  Everything was logical. Unlike most adventure games with pure puzzles but lack of story line, this 
 one takes you right into the subject from the beginning. To solve a problem, you just have to put 
 yourself in Martin Holan's (The Hero) shoes and think logically what you would have done. My friend 
 and I finished the game in almost 10 hours which is some what short. On the other hand we just 
 spent $20 for it which would justify the shortness. The graphics are sharp and nicely rendered. 
 The control is pretty easy. There is an option to turn the caption on to see the conversation on 
 the bottom of the screen. The game automatically removes the items from the inventory list when 
 there is no longer need. Overall we enjoyed the game and we hope to see more games like this in 
 future.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jwells
Rating: 6.3
Date: Dec 15, 2005 5:30 am PT
Review:  Nibiru is a strange game with a strange protagonist. Usually, I would like that, but in this case 
 I found it simply too far a field from what my own reactions would be in the presented situations. 
 For example, lets say I had found the dead body of someone I was supposed to meet covered in blood 
 in the bathtub. I would personally start freaking out right about then and call the police. But 
 no, instead Mr. Martin Holan (the protagonist of this game) walks around the apartment, looks at 
 the cat and generally hangs about until he hears the police, at which time he flees the scene of 
 the crime. I mean, Im guessing my fingerprints are all over the place. I guess I just have absolutely 
 no understanding of the motivation behind Mr. Holans actions. Yes, he had been sent on a mission 
 by his Uncle. Yes, his uncle thought the mission was important. But, hey, hes just an archeologist 
 type  nothing more, nothing less. So, when confronted with a brutal murder would I, if I were 
 Martin, make a quick escape? Sorry, it is just too strange a reaction for me. Would anyone who 
 is basically a normal guy have that reaction? Sorry, I dont think so. And this is not the only 
 place in the game where dead bodies elicit no more response than a muted wonderment.
  
  So, I guess I am saying that the script is bad, and sorry, the voice acting is bad too. And the 
 game well I love adventure games. They are my favorite genre. On the other hand, I *hate* pixel 
 hunts. The easiest way for me to hate a game in my favorite genre is to make it a pixel hunt. This 
 game, unfortunately, is heavy on the pixel hunts. On the plus side is that at least the red-herring 
 active areas become inactive once you have touched them once. On the minus side is that some of 
 the active areas you have to click more than once in order to proceed. Aghhh The real puzzles 
 that did show up in this game were good, but not great. I never needed help with any of them, which 
 means they were too easy ;-) . The game is also long and twisted. Ending was nice, but a bit predictable. 
 If you are a hardcore adventure fan, you can probably play this game and finish it. If not, dont 
 get this game. It will add to all your negative stereotypes about the adventure genre. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bonanza35
Rating: 1.9
Date: Nov 28, 2005 7:30 pm PT
Review:  possibly a good story, unfortunately nibiru uses a clumsy POINT and CLICK for its movement. this 
 is so rude ! I generally avoid adventure games for this very reason, using a crude point and click 
 system for movement, while advertizing their 360 degree free explorations. It is most unfortunate 
 writers put together a game which has the potential for a true adventure storyline, then go and 
 make the control system so terrible it becomes too frustrating to play beyond the first 30 minutes. 
 nibiru is a complete waste of ones money due to the clumsy point and click system.
  Needing to spend time searching over entire screen for any posssible hotspots one may then click 
 onto is very agrivating. It gets worse after finding out that you really only have one or two choices 
 for clicking onto for navigating through the game, it is worse than being stuck on a model train 
 track going round and round and round for ones adventure! The camera aspect look angle is so oblique 
 that it becomes confusing attempting to navigate even with two choices for clicking the mouse. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: icewindy
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 1, 2005 10:30 am PT
Review:  Sixty years after the defeat of the Nazis, construction workers come upon an old German tunnel 
 complex west of Prague. Martin Holan, a young archeologist, is given permission to enter and investigate 
 the contents. Inside he will find vaults of information concerning an unknown planet in our solar 
 system called NiBiRu. He learns that the Nazis hired a brilliant scientist during the war to make 
 use of Nibiru's secrets, but the end of the war prevented them from finishing their plan. Now, 
 Martin must unearth all that was discovered and find out the current implications of their plot.
 
  
  
  Francois calls Martin Holan and talks about a German mine excavated in 
  Western Bohemia. Professor Francois de Vilde, Martin's uncle talks about NiBiRu - the 12th planet 
 and the German's belief in it and extraterrestrial existence. The contact in Prague is Barbora 
 and she is waiting for Martin at Charles Bridge. ........
  
  The main menu has New game, Save game, Load game, Options, Credits and Quit. The Options menu has 
 selection for antialiasing, shadows, volume and subtitles. The volume and subtitle selections can 
 be adjusted by clicking on the red circle to select it and moving the cursor to the position wanted.
 
  
  To access the main menu during gameplay, move the cursor to top right of screen and click on cogwheels. 
 To save a game, click on an empty frame to save a new one or on an already saved game to overwrite 
 that old one. Click on the balls to scroll the frames. There are 100 slots for saved games. To 
 load, select the frame wanted. 
  
  The inventory bar is at the bottom of the screen. The scroll icons are balls at either end of the 
 bar. Items can be combined by selecting one item and clicking it over another.
  
  Right click on all active items to get more information or to do additional actions. Press the 
 spacebar to skip the intro. Double click on exits to hasten the transition. The cursor is red on 
 active items and will flash on items when an action can be done with an item is on the cursor.
 
  
  ..............................
  
  Rest in peace, my friend.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: shansun83
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 13, 2005 9:13 pm PT
Review:  gamers not in interested in adventure gaming will not find this game too enjoyable...
  
  You play as an archeologist Martin Holan who gets to know about a weird experiment by the Naazis 
 bout the mythical 10 planet Nibiru, during the second world war.
  The game delivers solid puzzle solving and less pixel hunting, the gamepace is slow at the start 
 and gets interesting and more fun and we progress through the story
  The 2D screens look awesome with beautiful art design ,although the characters are umipressive
 
  
  Pros: 
  Engrossing Storyline
  Beautifully rendered 2D screens
  Good Voice Acting
  Good Background Score
  Syberia Style Gameplay
  Easy save mechanism
  Very fast loading 
 
  Easily playable on a low-end PC
  
  Cons:
  Bit Tediuos unimaginative pixel hunt in few places
  Characters not well animated to reflect the 
 mood
  Fairly slow...
  
  Nibiru is a good traditional adventure game not experimenting much in terms of gameplay and graphics 
 but delivers a solid storyline and rich exploration
  
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
