-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Night Watch
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/nightwatch/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 The game expands upon some of the most interesting parts of the movie.
 The humor, while certainly campy, lends a touch of personality to the characters.
 The battle system is easy to pick up and is fun for the first few battles.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Dated visuals and an overall bland presentation.
 Shallow, repetitive gameplay doesn't offer enough variety or challenge to satisfy fans of turn-based strategy games.
 Awkward controls can make performing certain actions a hassle.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul 10, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.4
Critic Score: 5.4, 25 Review (s)
User Score: 6.7, 301 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: cdv Software
Developer: Nival Interactive
Genre: Computer Role-Playing
Date:     Jun 26, 2006
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Night Watch is a stripped-down turn-based strategy game that starts off interesting, but eventually 
 settles into a shallow and repetitive rut. 

  The  Night Watch  movie set box office records in Russia, but in the United States it's still relatively 
 unknown. Recently the movie was released on DVD in North America, and as you might expect from 
 a movie about vampires, sorcerers, and the supernatural, a video game adaptation has shown up as 
 well. Rather than taking the more obvious route of a standard third-person action adventure game, 
 developer Nival Interactive has created a turn-based role-playing game based on its Silent Storm 
 engine. The mention of Silent Storm is enough to catch the attention of strategy fans everywhere, 
 but Night Watch fails to live up to its pedigree. The game does have a genuinely interesting story 
 that complements the movie well, but it's too shallow and repetitive to satisfy strategy vets, 
 and too ugly and awkward to appeal to anyone else.  

          It's got the recipe for success: vampires, shape-shifters, alternate dimensions...     
 

  Night Watch the game is set in the same world as the movie, but it follows a different story. The 
 game opens with a man named Stas on top of a building with a sniper rifle trained on an unsuspecting 
 woman. Apparently Stas' mother is sick, and he needs some quick cash in order to afford her necessary 
 treatment. He takes an assassination job, but when it comes time to pull the trigger, Stas has 
 second thoughts. Just then, some people appear out of thin air and Stas is informed that he is 
 an "other."  

  See, in the world of Night Watch, there's a constant struggle that takes place between the forces 
 of light and the forces of darkness. The forces of darkness like to terrorize the human population, 
 so the forces of light have to keep them in check. Each force is composed of an army of people 
 who have supernatural powers. The problem is that the two forces are so equally matched that if 
 they were ever to attempt an all-out war it would end up destroying both forces, along with the 
 rest of the world. So, for the sake of survival, the dark others and the light others sign a treaty 
 that makes it a crime for others to engage in combat. The light others keep an eye on the dark 
 others during the night watch, and the dark others keep an eye on the light others in the day watch. 
 Of course, it wouldn't be much of a story if the two forces always played by the rules, so instead 
 of all-out warfare the others often resort to trickery and deception to get their way.  

  Stas comes into all of this because he's a sort of undeclared other, which means he's an other 
 who hasn't yet been drawn to the light or the dark. In an attempt to turn him toward the darkness, 
 the dark others set him up on the assassination mission, knowing that he couldn't be a member of 
 the light side if he were a cold-blooded killer. The light others catch on and stop him before 
 he commits the act, thus recruiting him to the light side. Stas then begins his life as a light 
 other, enforcing the law of the treaty, protecting the innocent, and so on. The story in the game 
 actually does a better job of explaining some of the more abstract concepts than the movie does, 
 so even if you haven't seen the movie you'll still be able to catch on quickly.  

  Night Watch is a modern-day turn-based strategy game involving vampires, werewolves, witches, and 
 a wide variety of other supernatural creatures. You can have anywhere from one to four characters 
 in your party, although your party is determined by the story and you have no say in who you get 
 to recruit. Each of your characters can be one of three classes. The shape-shifter is the equivalent 
 of a fighter due to its high defense and melee attack capabilities; the mage has weak defense but 
 powerful attack spells; and the enchanter can imbue everyday objects like flashlights and apples 
 with magic energy that grants powerful special effects. Each class has around 20 spells and abilities 
 that become available as you kill enemies and earn experience. Even then, the character customization 
 feels extremely limited with only three classes to choose from, and the new spells and abilities 
 you gain access to are hardly worth the effort. In fact, you'll probably find yourself using the 
 same few basic tactics right up to the end of the game.  

          ... but it all comes together in a watered-down and uninspired game.     

  Everything 
 you do in Night Watch requires action points, which are replenished each turn. When it's your turn 
 you can move your characters, cast spells, attack, and use items. You usually won't have many action 
 points to spare, so you'll average about three actions per turn for each character. When you're 
 finished you simply hit the end turn button and wait for your enemies to act before doing it all 
 over again. Since movement is a massive drain on your action points, you'll find that the most 
 efficient strategy is to stand in one spot and launch ranged spells or repeated attacks at nearby 
 enemies, which doesn't exactly make for exciting or challenging tactical battles.  

  It doesn't help that the movement in the game is somewhat awkward and very imprecise. It seems 
 simple, because you just have to click the spot on the map where you want your character to go, 
 and the artificial intelligence is fairly apt at finding paths around obstacles and through doors 
 and such. However, the movement lacks precision, usually getting your characters only within the 
 general vicinity of where you clicked. If there are obstacles or other characters nearby it becomes 
 a jumbled mess, which makes it difficult to select a target when attacking or using items. You 
 can rotate and zoom in the camera, but that rarely offers a better perspective on the action.  
 

  One unique aspect of Night Watch is the way that you can travel between two parallel worlds in 
 the midst of battle. When battles begin you're in the real world, but if you have enough action 
 points you can step into the "gloom," which is an alternate dimension where magic is stronger, 
 but your characters are drained of energy each round. Many battles take place almost entirely in 
 the gloom, and characters behave slightly differently depending on which realm they're in. For 
 example, most characters will have much more available action points per turn while in the gloom 
 than while in the normal world. But as interesting as it sounds, the gloom doesn't do much to add 
 to the depth of the game. Usually you step into the gloom on the first turn of the battle, fight 
 until all the enemies are dead, and then step out of the gloom to move on to the next battle.  
 

  The battles in the game take place on large battlefields set in subways, castles, parks, city streets, 
 and more. But while there's a decent variety to the landscape, the actual battles become repetitive 
 quickly. There are very few special missions that require you to do anything other than kill every 
 enemy you see, and you'll end up facing the same few enemies throughout the entire game. The game 
 is actually fun for the first few battles, but beyond that nothing changes and there's no sense 
 of progression. You just get herded from one generic battle to the next in a very linear fashion. 

          The slick style and special effects of the movie are nowhere to be found in the game.  
    

  The presentation in Night Watch leaves much to be desired. The characters are poorly detailed, 
 the battle animations are jerky and stilted, and the rag-doll effect is overused to the point of 
 ridiculousness. The backgrounds are all covered with flat, dull textures and the objects that populate 
 the environment are dull and blocky. The environments are destructible as advertised, but the way 
 objects crumple at the slightest touch seems unnatural and out of place. Even the spell effects 
 are dull, which is in sharp contrast to the very stylized special effects used in the movie. Thankfully 
 the sound is much better than the visuals. There is a ton of dialogue in the game, and while it's 
 all a bit stiff, it's actually somewhat funny at times. It might just be that the characters look 
 so lifeless that even the slightest hint of humanity in their voices seems like an astounding accomplishment 
 by contrast. Also, the music is actually quite good. The rock track that loops in the background 
 is heavy enough to lend a darker tone to the game, without being overbearing. The only problem 
 is that when you step into the gloom the music dies and you're left in relative silence.  

  Night Watch is a promising game in the beginning, with a unique story and accessible battle system. 
 After the first few battles, though, the game never progresses, and instead settles into a rut 
 of simplicity and repetition. The game could take you 15 hours or more to get through, but once 
 you finish it the replay value is next to nothing. Furthermore, if you're expecting the same level 
 of production and style from the game that you saw in the movie, you'll be sorely disappointed. 
 It's true there aren't many turn-based strategy games on the market, but there are certainly better 
 ones than this.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (7 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Gonaldo
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 2, 2008 5:03 pm PT
Review:  Developed by Nival Interactive, the producer of the excelent Silent Storm, Night Watch follows 
 the theme of the official movie, althought it doesnt follow the storyline.
  
  In this game, the main character is Stas, a murderer who discovers that he's not a normal human 
 being, but an Other who belongs to the Light side of the story, the Night Watch. The Night Watch 
 and the Day Watch are opposing sides that have been fighting each other for centuries. In the role 
 of Stas, the player needs to uncover the evil plans carried by the Day Watch leader, fighting vampires, 
 werewolves, witchs and other creatures belonging to the Day Watch.
  
  The title may seem charismatic and complex, but it's all flash: The story is quite basic and the 
 dialogues are very unspired, combining with the flaws that you will certanly notice when playing 
 this game.
  
  If you played Silent Storm or Hammer and Sickle, you will feel at home. Night Watch shares the 
 graphic engine with this games; but there are differences. The textures and lighting are better 
 looking, but there are slowdowns and the the destrution isnt so evident: Some cares explod and 
 some windows break, but dont expect to destroy walls. Althought that happened in Silent Storm, 
 it doesnt mean that it happens again in Night Watch. And it doesn't.
  
  The graphics are basic like the storyline. The characters have poor animations, the effects you 
 saw on the movie are no where to be found and the slowdowns, as I said before, are frequent. Yes, 
 there are some nice lighning/shadow tricks in this game, but thats about it. 
  
  Now the gameplay itself is, once again, very inspired in Silent Storm. But, as you may know, in 
 SS you attacked using long ranged weapons, rarely using melee attacks. Well, in NW the situation 
 is exactly the opposite thing: You use lots of melee combat, but almost nothing of ranged combat 
 (besides speels, but its a different thing) . Now imagine playing SS only using melee combat: Not 
 very funny, isnt it? Well.. thats Night Watch gameplay.
  
  As I said before, if you played SS you will recognise NW immediatly. All the gameplay is based 
 in walk-combat-combat-walk, using AP's for everything you do: Speels, melee atacks and walking. 
 And althought the combats may seem fun at the beggining, they will soon tire you, probably because 
 of its difficulty.
  
  At least NW offers you some good variety of everything (cenarios out) . To fight the creatures of 
 Day Watch you have lanterns, pistols, clubs, swords, spells, etc... There are about 70 different 
 abillities to chose, 3 classes (You have to pick one for yourself and for some members of your 
 party) and a bunch of weapons. In this point, the game does well. But its still a pity that you 
 dont have any kind of armour or option to costumize the looks of yourself or your party.
  
  Not even the audio saves this game. The soundtrack does its job, but the voices are preatty weak. 
 I even noticed some errors on the translations. One last note for the sound effects of the weapons 
 and spells: Like the rest of the game, these are week.
  
  But dont think that everything on this game is horrible: The combat is fun (on the beggening) and 
 the thematics cann be very apelative to some people. If you liked SS or H&S, you should at least 
 look at NW.
  
  But its very hard to recommend Night Watch, because its flaws are bigger than its qualities. So 
 try it before you buy it, but only if you aprove the game mechanic: Because if you dont, dont even 
 bother playing Night Watch.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: thanhbun
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 30, 2007 5:46 am PT
Review:  World has always been divided into two sides  black and white, day and night, Light and Darkness. 
 An ancient agreement guards the balance between Light and Darkness. But there should be someone 
 to guard the Agreement.
  
  There are people among us who look usual but who are different  they call themselves Others. They 
 can enter the magic layer of reality  Dusk, feel the magic power and use it for their different 
 magic abilities. From the very beginning of our days Others took a side to serve to and to fight 
 for. Others who protect Light united in the Night Watch as they fight against those who come out 
 in the night time. Others who fight for Darkness united into Day Watch. Their battle goes on for 
 ages  and will be going on until the balance is lost and one side wins forever
  
  Welcome to the Night Watch! As your power will grow with the experience, you will be able to choose 
 one specialization out of three. You can be Shapeshifter and turn into an animal  your significant 
 physical strength will be a great weapon in a close combat. You can choose to be an Enchanter and 
 be able to turn usual items into magical artifacts. Or you can become a Mage and learn many of 
 different mighty spells. But no matter which specialization you choose, you can also rely on your 
 team-mates.
  
  Your tactics will be greatly deepened with the Dusk, an Other layer of reality. It shows auras 
 of Others, makes your abilities grow and gives more power to your spells. Yet for all this the 
 Dusk takes away your strength  slowly, turn by turn. This constant threat to your life deepens 
 the challenge and makes the magic battles even sharper, while realistic physics and destructible 
 environment make them spectacular! Step into the real locations of modern Moscow, enter the Dusk, 
 reveal your magic abilities and serve the cause of Light! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tylgreer
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 28, 2006 8:10 am PT
Review:  I've played many a game, but Night watch is by far the best ever. With graphics rivaling Oblivion, 
 it is a sight to behold when you just stand and watch a vampire slowly slide his fangs into your 
 character's meat. However, the gameplay in Night Watch is really what separates it from other lesser 
 games. Everything is interactive, the physics make Half-Life 2's look shamefully shambled together 
 last second. The combat is also top-notch, and there are even cameos from other video games such 
 as Solid Snake, Master Chief, Gorge, and even the Big Show from wrestling. Don't buy any other 
 RPG. Buy **** and if the retail store you buy it from has it placed in a bargain bin, demand that 
 you will pay 50 dollars instead for this first-rate item. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nappan
Rating: 5.1
Date: Jul 10, 2006 6:55 pm PT
Review:  For anyone who doesn't know, this game is based on a russian made movie about vampires and other 
 supernatural creatures waging an eons long war of light against dark. It was, for people who enjoy 
 that genre, a stunningly fun movie. On a shoestring budget, high quality sfx were used along with 
 a good (if not entirely original plot) to make something truly entertaining.
  
  Given the ratio of money to fun the movie provided I had high hopes for this game. Unfortunatly 
 from the get go, I was dissapointed. My first criticism is one I will not hold to much against 
 CDV and Nival Interactive, because it's a matter of preference: I wish they had not made Night 
 Watch a Turn Based Strategy style game. This would have been a perfect candidate to use a system 
 like Vampire The Masquerade: Bloodlines, only with far more characters, and a true good/evil option. 
 I would not have mentioned this in a review as a critique except that it is really mind boggling 
 that Night Watch was made into a turn based game. 
  
  For the story telling aspects of the game, I have nothing but respect. Gamespot is not wrong in 
 saying that some may get more out of the story as told in the game than the movie. Of course, unlike 
 a game like Xenosaga (which was blasted for having a great story and weak combat) Night Watch has 
 a great story and almost nonexistant gameplay. Most of the game is just a matter of hurling spells 
 and such and trying to get around some very VERY bland maps (not bad in terms of concept, just 
 weak graphics) . As it stands now, Night Watch the game would be better as a pen and paper RPG than 
 it's current incarnation. 
  
  It may be petty, but I really do take points off for an opportunity lost here. For anyone who has 
 not seen the movie and doesn't understand why I sound so bitter, rent it, then play the game. You'll 
 understand. RPG, FPSRPG, 3rd person, even a PLATFORMER would have made more sense. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rwilcox99
Rating: 2.4
Date: Jul 10, 2006 5:00 pm PT
Review:  Ok, I have to admit I barley played this game but that's only because I couldn't bear it. The graphics 
 are horribly dated, the voice acting is terrible and the dialog sounds as if it were written by 
 a 10 year old. Am I exagerrating? Maybe a little, but not much. While the movie which the game 
 is designed from has recieved a certain amount of acclaim as being the highest grossing filim in 
 Russia this is just anohter example of a movie franchise gone wrong. Steer clear of this madness 
 and you'll be able to sleep at night knowing your bank account is safe from the **** 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpookyX
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jul 19, 2006 12:51 pm PT
Review:  Turn based RPGs are absolutely few and far between. Hopefully, the success and promotion of Heroes 
 and Might and Magic V may help this genre a bit but there is another series that is just as notable 
 and maintains it own dedicated fan base. That game was Silent Storm. Since its release other games 
 have been developed by Nival such as Silent Storm II and Hammer and Sickle using a much better 
 refined commandos-style of gameplay. All of their games have had a twist and Night Watch probably 
 has the biggest as they switch from historically based wars into Vampire based wars. 
  
  Night Watch is based on a wildly popular movie fron Russia based on good vs. bad vampires. I have 
 not yet been able to see the movie but I hear its worth checking out. What I do know is that based 
 on descriptions the game is very loosely based on the movie and makes the Russian based locale 
 look much cleaner and safer than that of the movie. Perhaps, this was a style choice or just a 
 limitation of the engine.
  
  You play an "Other" who is almost converted to the dark force but is saved by the Night Watch. 
 Almost immediately, you need to select if you are going to become an Enchanter, Mage or Shape-Shifter. 
 An Enchanter can give common items magical attributes, a mage casts spells without much prep work 
 and a shape-shifer, well, shifts its shape. You are then carried away into the "mysterious" plot.
 
  
  First off the box art makes things look a lot hotter and exciting then they are. Based on questions 
 in the forums I will tell you this is an offline single player game without any monthly fee. There, 
 its been said. Turn based strategy games , for those not in the know, have you basically point 
 and click where you want to move freely as long as there are not nearby enemies. As soon, as enemies 
 are encountered the game turns to taking turns between you and the AI enemies. Attacks, spells, 
 and moving all takes AP which you have a limited amount of in each turn. For example, I click on 
 a bad guy to punch him which spends some AP, I realize that I have enough AP left to give him another 
 punch which then depletes my AP. Since I cannot do anymore I select "End Turn" which allows my 
 enemies to lay the smackdown on me. Rinse and Repeat. It may not sound very exciting at first but 
 unlike classic Final Fantasy type games you can actually move around to an extent if needed and 
 there is a good amount of strategy involved in deciding how you should attack. These games are 
 nice especially for those unfortunate people who do not have the twitch skills to play real-time 
 shooters and action RPGs.
  
  The graphics are admittedly dated but if you enable a high resolution, kick up the anti-alias option 
 and filtering you can get it to look pretty nice. The animations are pretty stilted but the characters 
 control very easily. The camera seems a little wonky but it is a free-camera so you can get it 
 where you want albeit with sometimes a little work. That's okay since its turn-based and not going 
 to cause you to get killed. The voice acting is and in game cut scenes are stilted but not going 
 to make you moan and groan most likely.
  
  Overall, if you like Nival Interactive's previous works then you will like this. However, if you 
 are a turn-based RPG fan and can only get either this or Heroes of Might and Magic V then wait 
 for Night Watch to hit the bargain bin. If you are a new to the genre I would not say this is the 
 best example that you should start with. Go get a copy of Silent Storm I or II on the cheap and 
 see if you like this style of gameplay before jumping in. The demo of this game also should give 
 you a good idea of what to expect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andyclass50
Rating: 7.3
Date: Mar 13, 2006 8:07 am PT
Review:  The game gives you a fair bit of choice in how you want to play the game, through varied options 
 in dialogue between characters and how you develope your character, similar to what Deus Ex had 
 accomplished.
  
  It has a common style of gameplay for an RPG, but has a few bugs to iron out during combat as I 
 had barely played for 5 minutes before I was stuck on a fence getting beaten to death by vampires.
 
  
  The graphics is at a standard where it would have been considered to be quite good in the late 
 90s, but at todays standard the best thing I can say about it is that it could be worse.
  
  In-game music is fine, just a bit repetitive, which is understandable of a game in this genre.
 
  
  As for value, well this is a game I would buy if I could find it cheap online, second hand, or 
 something of the like.
  However, it has all the makings of a classic if only it had been released a few years back. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
