-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Nocturne
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/nocturne/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 17, 1999
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 7.6, 31 Review (s)
User Score: 7.7, 210 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Gathering
Developer: Terminal Reality
Genre: Horror Action Adventure
Date:     Oct 31, 1999
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Its movie-like quick camera cuts make the game especially difficult to navigate, which makes Nocturne's 
 incessant and clumsy action sequences even less enjoyable. 

 It's difficult to invoke suspense and tension in a computer game, but games like Nocturne keep trying. 
 Nocturne borrows heavily from Capcom's Resident Evil third-person action-adventure games, which 
 in turn stole their creepy style from Infogrames' Alone in the Dark series. This formula calls 
 for claustrophobic scenery, bizarre camera cuts, unexpected encounters, and a scarcity of ammunition, 
 and on first impression, Nocturne follows this formula precisely. On first impression, Nocturne 
 is also one of the best-looking games of the year. But the game reveals its true colors soon enough, 
 and you'll quickly begin to find its flaws one by one, one after another, until you find yourself 
 trying to play a game that isn't as scary as it tries to be, nor as visually attractive as it might 
 have been.  

 Even so, Nocturne looks bleak and beautiful. Its weather-beaten worldwide settings of the early 
 20th century, from German castles to runaway trains to Chicago gangland, are realistic in appearance 
 and cinematic in presentation. Nocturne's stoic hero, the gravelly-voiced no-nonsense secret agent 
 known only as the Stranger, is detailed down to his ruffled necktie and trench coat. His many enemies 
 span virtually every breed of monster you can imagine, including werewolves, vampires, zombies, 
 and demons, and most every one of these is a fearsome reinterpretation of its classic horror archetype. 

 But it's Nocturne's absolutely stunning special effects that are especially impressive. Instead 
 of the usual variety of eye-popping colored lights and full-screen pyrotechnics, Nocturne's effects 
 emphasize the game's darkness. Each character casts a perfectly realistic shadow, which stretches 
 and bends and divides depending on that character's location relative to any nearby light sources. 
 The Stranger's gun-mounted laser targeting devices cut through dense fog, and while his flashlight 
 isn't much help in dark places, what luminosity it provides looks incredibly real. You'll catch 
 yourself gawking at Nocturne's graphics all the time.  

 However, Nocturne's visual quality has its price. The game runs poorly or not at all on machines 
 that don't have over a hundred megs of RAM, and only the fastest home computers in existence will 
 let the game run smoothly. And even if you're part of the elite that can run the game just right, 
 you'll find that Nocturne might have looked much better in spite of its attention to detail, which 
 you'll find was focused exclusively on particular elements of Nocturne's presentation. The realistic 
 shadows and the Stranger's billowing trench coat may look great, but other elements of the game's 
 appearance are plainly lacking; for instance, none of the characters' faces are animated. There's 
 a lot of dialogue in Nocturne, but the characters just stand there like poker-faced ventriloquists 
 the whole time. Besides, none of these characters is well animated in the first place; each moves 
 in the same jerky computer-game-character manner you've seen countless times before, which betrays 
 Nocturne's realism as mere facade. It's also difficult to tell when the Stranger's enemies are 
 actually hitting him and just as difficult to tell whether his bullets are hitting home or missing 
 their mark. And even though most of the scenery in Nocturne looks real, some of it looks either 
 too flat or too clean and simple by comparison. Collectively, such graphical inconsistencies severely 
 dampen Nocturne's presentation and atmosphere. Each time you begin to feel immersed in the game's 
 unique yet familiar horror-movie environment, you are promptly pulled away because parts of the 
 game look too real to let you suspend disbelief, but other parts don't look real enough to ever 
 make you think it's anything more than just a game.  

 Unfortunately Nocturne's sound effects and musical score provide no consolation, as they are as 
 discrepant as its graphics. While the scary symphonic soundtrack works well at times, its cues 
 are too loud and abrasive to lend any real tension to most of Nocturne's supposedly terrifying 
 moments. Whatever fear you're supposed to feel when you suspect evil lurking in nearby shadows 
 is relieved both by the bad animation and by Nocturne's incessant Psycho-sounding screeching-string-instrument 
 score. The game's sound effects aren't especially good either; the Stranger's footsteps are too 
 loud, gunshots are too quiet, monsters sound typical, and the quality of the voice acting is entirely 
 inconsistent. Nocturne's presentation is utterly mixed up. You may revel in its noir horror style, 
 but you'll just as likely berate its attempt at being serious, depending on whether you can stand 
 hearing the word "vamp-ear" all the time.  

 Then again, bloodsuckers are but a fraction of the game's obstacles. Nocturne's gameplay is structured 
 within four main acts, which occur sequentially in time but can be played out of order. All the 
 acts look and feel fairly different; the first and third are more action-oriented while the other 
 two let you explore more freely and make you think a bit. Each presents a self-contained story 
 that's original and interesting. However, Nocturne is really just an action game at its core, and 
 the difference between acts is the difference between fighting constantly versus fighting most 
 of the time.  

 The problem is, Nocturne isn't much of an action game. Controlling the Stranger is difficult no 
 matter what kind of frame rate you're getting. He turns too quickly to let you aim effectively, 
 but not quickly enough to let you dodge his foes. And because he automatically trains his guns 
 on his targets, your role in a fight is merely to mash the fire button until his target dies. It's 
 possible to aim manually, which is theoretically viable since your foes are much easier to kill 
 if you hit their weak points, but precision targeting in Nocturne is impossible thanks to the poor 
 control and the unpredictable camera angles. This means combat in Nocturne boils down to simply 
 being prepared for whatever lies ahead, such as having stakes ready for vampires and silver bullets 
 for werewolves. Anticipating conflict can be challenging, but there's no anticipation required 
 if you just save your game all the time. And this is what you'll invariably end up doing since 
 you'll die often because the control is so bad.  

 You'll probably play through Nocturne anyway. You can tell a lot of effort went into the game; its 
 great look and style make it memorable, and its considerable length affords a substantial amount 
 of gameplay. Its intriguing premise, its endearingly deadpan protagonist, and its cinematic presentation 
 all help create and sustain the horror-movie atmosphere the designers intended. Unfortunately, 
 this cinematic styling is what ultimately precludes Nocturne's success; the game's movie-like quick 
 camera cuts make the game especially difficult to navigate, which makes Nocturne's incessant and 
 clumsy action sequences even less enjoyable. As such, one might suspect that Nocturne's designers 
 tried almost too hard to make everything look just right, because they succeeded in making what 
 might have been a good movie at the expense of what might have been a great game.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: MartinWinthrop
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 24, 2008 12:18 pm PT
Review:  Alright, if you read my reviews, you know by now that I want a horror RPG. But there are just none 
 out there. There are zombie shootem ups galore, or beatem ups. But not a spooky role playing game 
 where you go there woods, dark haunted houses and the like. This game tried to do it. It really 
 tried. But why can't the makers get success? Here was why on this game. There were four different 
 adventures. All great creepy environments. They took you through scary towns, cities, offices, 
 country ranches, caves and the House on the Edge of Hell. That sounds good, but the game was broken 
 and that level did not work. 
  
  Another broken thing was the camera angles. Terrible. It was an above - three d - third person 
 view, and the view or angle was static. Meaning that you could not rotate the camera at all. You 
 had one angle peering down and you had to get your character around like that. Horribly hard to 
 do. Then the action would happen off camera, partly and then on. That Sucked. 
  
  It was a step in the right direction but becuase it was broken, and had bad camera anles and I 
 did not get to play the last level its a 6. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FEPowered390
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jul 6, 2007 2:13 am PT
Review:  Not much you see a horror adventure game on the PC, Nocturne is one that is worth mentioning, though 
 it could have been made much better.
  
  Props to Nocturne for some neat innovation. This was the first real game I ever played on the family's 
 first computer... a Pentium 2 333Mhz. And boy, did it run like $hit.
  
  Nocturne is in it's own class of originality, but it falls somewhat short on the large scale.
 
  
  Is it scary? Yes. Does it have a good soundtrack with proper ambient sounds to send chills down 
 your spine? Yes.
  
  Does it have a good story with good characters? Yes
  
  Does it have excellent graphics and scenery? Yes
  
  Are the game-play mechanics good? No.
 
  
  And now, you see where we fall short. The mechanics. I'm a huge Resident Evil fan. I can understand 
 how new gamers would fine the mechanics of the original RE games to be odd . But believe me, the 
 mechanics on this game is very very odd. Something pops up and you feel like you have hardly any 
 control of your character.
  
  The difficulty could have been lightened up for sure.
  
  Nocturne is definitely worth checking out if you are a horror freak. But don't expect a golden 
 game. Expect to see good action sequences, good story, great voice acting, great graphics, but 
 mechanics that could leave you pulling your hair out! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
