-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: No Man's Land
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/nomansland/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 13, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.9
Critic Score: 6.6, 14 Review (s)
User Score: 6.5, 81 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: cdv Software
Developer: Related Designs
Genre: Historic Real-Time...
Date:     Oct 20, 2003
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The game is in its own "no man's land" between historical authenticity and fiction, and it falls 
 victim to lackluster gameplay, thus preventing it from being recommendable to RTS fans. 

  No Man's Land is CDV's latest offering from a crop of real-time strategy games developed in Europe 
 and later released in the US. The company's titles tend to be relatively realistic and historically-based, 
 and No Man's Land appears to be no exception, at first glance. The various factions and artwork 
 are reflective of the 17th, 18th, and 19th centuries, but, in fact, there's a lot of mysticism 
 and historical inaccuracy in the game. This results in placing the game in its own "no man's land" 
 between historical authenticity and fiction. Additionally, it falls victim to lackluster gameplay, 
 thus preventing it from being recommendable to RTS fans.  

          The campaigns are loosely based on real history, with a few creative and sometimes absurd 
 twists.     

  No Man's Land takes place in North America from the 1600s to the 1900s. There are six factions 
 in the game, including Native Americans, Europeans, and American settlers. There are three campaigns 
 in the single-player mode, but they don't follow any kind of chronological order. Instead, the 
 campaigns show how various factions were related to one another. The first campaign follows a Spanish 
 man as he investigates a sudden drop in gold production in the New World. You'll end up in the 
 Caribbean fighting some familiar foes of Spain during the time period. Next, you'll play as the 
 Iroquois Indians, who are fighting for survival in their woodland homes during the founding of 
 the American colonies. When you finish this set of missions, a character explains that other Indians 
 are having problems with the "pale faces." You then jump to playing prairie Indians who are fighting 
 the settlers in the Midwest as they arrive on trains. The third campaign starts with the English 
 arriving in America on the Mayflower, which, if you recall from history, arrived in 1620. It's 
 being escorted by warships, and they come under fire from... the  Spanish ? Interestingly, the Mayflower 
 was a religious voyage, not a military one, and the Spanish never even made it that far north. 
 Anyway...  

  As you can imagine, No Man's Land isn't going to replace your history text. The story varies from 
 being somewhat believable to just plain ridiculous. To give another example, in the first campaign 
 you're fighting someone named Drake. This is plausible because Sir Francis Drake attacked Spanish 
 ships for the English crown. Oddly, you then you encounter an Indian shaman who can summon animals 
 from out of thin air! The game just feels trapped between trying to adhere to reality and making 
 copious use of creative license to the point where the proceedings just make no sense.  

  Each of the six factions has its own unique buildings and units, although these units are all functionally 
 equivalent. There are weak combat units, stronger but more expensive fighters, and units with bonuses 
 against cavalry. Depending on the faction, these units feature ranged or melee attacks. The cavalry 
 is also composed of the three described infantry units, but, in contrast, the cavalry units are 
 merely -- and obviously -- on horseback. The European nations can also build cannons and warships, 
 while the Native American tribes are limited to canoes. As you might have guessed, there really 
 isn't much variety to the game's military might, so, in turn there isn't much strategy in the game. 
 Battles are won through sheer force rather than tactical decisions. All you really need is a big 
 group of the weak fighters to be fodder for a big group of the strong fighters.  

          Grass Wing's throwing knife is so strong, it will take out this wooden tower with ease. 
     

  The main differences between factions are the elite units, which are the game's version of heroes. 
 They are units built from special structures. Some of them are story-specific characters, but they 
 are all are much stronger than the standard units. They have increased hit points, stronger attacks, 
 and special abilities, and they can regenerate hit points. Some of their special abilities include 
 being able to instantly kill other units or being able to cast whirlwind magic that inflicts heavy 
 damage on buildings. Some of the heroes can be obscenely overpowered to the point where you can 
 solve campaign missions with just the hero unit alone if you are patient enough to let it heal. 

  However, most of the time your heroes will die because they'll run themselves into an enemy base 
 due to the game's poor artificial intelligence. There are behavioral settings for units, but there 
 are some problems with these settings. The aggressive setting is fine, as it will cause your unit 
 to actively hunt down enemies that come within a specific range. The hold position setting is also 
 fine because sometimes you want your units to fire from a given spot. The problem lies with the 
 defensive position. In most RTS games, a defensive-minded behavioral unit will move to attack a 
 unit that comes within its range before returning to its original spot. In No Man's Land, units 
 placed on a defensive setting will only attack an enemy if they are, themselves, attacked. So, 
 if a group of riflemen are set to "defensive," they will not attack an Indian spearman if he is 
 attacking only one of the riflemen. This behavioral setting is, therefore, practically worthless, 
 so you can either pull your hair out because your units blindly run into an enemy base, or you 
 can pull your hair out because your units won't track down an enemy because they are set to "hold 
 position."    

  The enemy AI is also easy to fool because it will typically target the closest unit. A good tactic 
 to use against the computer is to parade your elite unit in the front lines to draw enemy fire 
 while your troops do the real damage. The computer also won't put up much of a fight in the campaigns. 
 It will throw some squads at your base, but it's nothing that a few towers with support can't handle. 
 Missions can become boring as you continually slog through enemy defenses to complete objectives. 

          Colonial towns promote equality because they can be built using male and/or female labor. 
     

  The economy has flaws as well. There are three resources: food, wood, and gold. The problem is 
 that all units and upgrades require food, which is not an infinite resource in No Man's Land. Farms 
 have to be built on fertile land that has a preset number of food units. If you run low on food, 
 the game comes to a screeching halt. The pacing will become really slow unless you find another 
 fertile field or other animals to hunt. You can trade other resources to acquire food, but wood 
 is the only plentiful resource, and you need a lot of it to make trades. There are two types of 
 workers: male and female. They both construct and gather resources, but the males cost more food 
 and have a better attack rating. You'll probably end up recruiting females because food is precious -- and 
 the game is pretty much over if you have to resort to fighting with peasants.  

  No Man's Land is an appropriate moniker for the game's multiplayer mode. There is no in-game browser 
 to find servers, and there are absolutely no games being played from what we saw using third-party 
 server browsers. It's hard to call this a disappointment because the game isn't easily recommended 
 to begin with, but the multiplayer mode, in theory, is fleshed-out nicely. There are your typical 
 RTS build-and-fight-to-the-death modes, but there are also some other familiar game types, like 
 king of the hill and unit elimination. No Man's Land also has a unique gameplay mode called railroad 
 race where you have to complete a railroad across the map before your opponents complete their 
 own. Things can get really interesting when your tracks intersect those of your opponents, thus 
 leading to some brutal fights for track completion.  

  Fortunately, you don't need human opponents to play these modes because you can enter a skirmish 
 against the computer. You can set difficulty ratings for the computer AI, making it relatively 
 more or less challenging. The computer puts up much more of a challenge in skirmish than in the 
 campaigns, so be prepared to actually have to work. There are some interesting additions to the 
 RTS formula in these modes. First, there are assassins you can hire. If you're having problems 
 with an enemy's elite unit, just hire one of these assassins to eliminate him. However, you  can 
  be outbid by other players, so, you  might  see the assassin as he comes after  your  elite unit 
 instead. You can also purchase "upgrades" that affect your opponent. They can temporarily cause 
 detrimental effects, like slowing workers' production or reducing enemy unit hit points. These 
 aren't going to revolutionize the RTS, but they add a nice twist to the formula.  

  Like the gameplay, the graphics in No Man's Land are hit-or-miss. The environments are detailed 
 nicely and look appropriate for each scenario. The water has a shimmering effect, and explosions 
 tear through the air. The units and buildings look good when static, but some unit animations can 
 be noticeably lacking. For example, Grass Wing's throwing knife often appears to come from a few 
 feet above his head instead of from his hand. Of further note, most of the cutscenes are handled 
 by the game's engine, so it does a decent job of progressing the campaigns.  

          Perhaps the people who wanted to play multiplayer got held up on this train.     

  
 The cutscenes are also where you'll find another disappointing aspect of the game: the sound. The 
 voices, in particular, are just plain awful. It's clear from the dull lines that little effort 
 was put into the voice work for the characters. Unit acknowledgements are equally poor. Some effects, 
 like gunfire, do produce some nice booms, and the soundtrack isn't that bad.  

  No Man's Land flip-flops constantly. Sometimes it can be fun, and at other times it's incredibly 
 tedious. The storylines for each campaign run from forgettable to absurd. The AI is rather poor, 
 and some factions are missing features. For instance; the manual states that there are unit formations 
 for European factions, but it doesn't tell you how to use them, and there aren't any menu commands 
 for them. You also can't rotate the camera as mentioned in the manual. The end result is that No 
 Man's Land isn't worth the trip.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: dj_copycat
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 30, 2006 6:59 am PT
Review:  The in-game environments are pleasing to the eye. They are not the best graphics in an RTS game 
 by a long shot, but they are far from bad. The creepy, benighted woods of some levels, coupled 
 with the ambient sounds of howling wolves are very well realized. Water is represented fairly well 
 in those missions that contain naval combat.
  
  There are, however, a few aspects of No Mans Land that are not as refined. Unit pathfinding is 
 downright frustrating, and the AI in general is questionable. Units routinely get hung up on buildings, 
 shrubs and sometimes each other. There are a variety of attitudes that you can be set for your 
 military units: defend, attack, hold position, etc. However, I found that there really wasnt a 
 default mode. There were far too many instances of units standing about while theyre being hacked 
 to pieces or shot full of musket balls. I see no reason why a unit should have any AI routine that 
 prevents it from defending itself or even moving while its being attacked. There are some elite 
 units with a stealth ability where this comes into play, but why would even these units stand about 
 and take it up the chute if they have been discovered?
  
  Unfortunately, the quirky AI makes it difficult to attack opponents in an efficient and organized 
 way. After a very short time, if you have a superior force, youll just let your units run wild. 
 Its easier than trying to control them.
  
  These frustrating incidents are not, once you learn to accept and work around them, enough to make 
 you turn off the game and relegate it to the trade-in pile, for you will actually care enough to 
 push past these annoyances and finish the game. The story sequences help to keep you engaged, and 
 when you consider the big picture, this is a pretty solid, old school RTS with some sloppy AI that 
 could be remedied in the future. over all this game is really just age of empires in a boring form 
 of game everything is the same as age of empires the only difference is that it is amercain trubis 
 is what u control insed of the european conutries 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
