-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: No One Lives Forever 2: A Spy in H.A.R.M.'s Way
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/noonelivesforever2asihw/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 27, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9.3
Critic Score: 9.1, 41 Review (s)
User Score: 9.0, 2,525 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sierra Entertainment
Developer: Monolith
Genre: Modern First-Person...
Date:     Sep 30, 2002 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
No One Lives Forever 2 is a rousing success on every level. 

 No One Lives Forever 2: A Spy in H. A. R. M.'s Way -- the sequel to GameSpot's 2000 Action Game of the 
 Year, The Operative: No One Lives Forever -- continues the surprising success Monolith has experienced 
 in the last couple of years. It improves on almost everything that worked well in the first game, 
 and it also fixes that game's problems. Thanks to this sequel, an already amazing year for action 
 games just got even better.           Skill points can be used to raise eight different character 
 stats.    

 Though the details have changed, the new game's story and setting are similar to those of the first 
 game. It's still the swinging '60s, you're still UNITY agent Cate Archer, and you're still fighting 
 the worldwide crime syndicate H. A. R. M. and its quirky henchmen. This time, you'll not only travel 
 to predictable locations such as a remote military base, an undersea laboratory, and Japan, but 
 you'll also visit the never-before-simulated world of Akron, Ohio, an environment that in video 
 game terms qualifies as truly exotic.   

  If the story hasn't changed dramatically, the means of telling it certainly have. The expository 
 cutscenes -- which were sometimes interminable in the original game -- have been seriously streamlined 
 for the sequel. Nearly all of them make their points quickly and effectively and then move on. 
 This skillful trimming results in scenes that are funnier and generally more entertaining than 
 those in the original game. And from the unexpected visual gags, to the strange gadgets, to the 
 overheard conversations of H. A. R. M.'s neurotic, chatty minions, all the other elements of the series' 
 steadfast good humor remain intact as well.   

  The series' stealth elements, arguably the weakest aspect of the original's gameplay, have undergone 
 a complete overhaul. Thankfully, a lean function has been added to Cate's repertoire of actions. 
 Most of the game's 40 levels (spread across 15 long chapters) can be completed using stealth, brute 
 force, or a combination of the two. And unlike in many games with a stealth element, guard alarms 
 are usually localized -- if you trigger an alert in one section of a level and manage to escape, 
 enemies in another area won't necessarily be alerted to your presence. The designers have also 
 done away with all the aggravating missions in which you automatically lose if you're spotted. 
 Though triggering an alarm (especially on higher difficulty settings, where enemies pack a real 
 wallop) will often result in a tough situation, you always have the option of fighting your way 
 through, fleeing, or hiding until things cool down. In fact, several new gadgets, such as the bear 
 trap and the banana peel, are specifically designed to help you escape from pursuers.   

  Excellent level design complements the game's improved sneaking element. Most of the environments 
 include side passages that can be used to avoid guards. These side-passages, however, also give 
 enemies a way to circle around you in a fight. The AI of your enemies, which was already excellent 
 in the original, has been somewhat improved. Often, one henchman will hold his position while another 
 one tries to work his way behind you. Meanwhile, the AI of characters who aren't actually engaged 
 in combat has been improved dramatically. Guards will become alerted by sounds, footprints in the 
 snow, cries from other guards, and the bodies of their fallen comrades (which you can pick up and 
 carry out of sight) . Once alerted, they won't immediately pinpoint your location. They'll first 
 check the area of the disturbance (taking a moment to investigate dead bodies) . They'll then start 
 poking around, turning on lights and peeking into closets, in an attempt to find you. All these 
 actions are accompanied by auditory feedback in the form of either the guard talking to his compatriots 
 or muttering to himself. The stealth system is both intuitive enough and lenient enough to avoid 
 the frustrating half-baked feel of similar systems implemented in other shooters, which often seem 
 to be nothing more than an afterthought. With the possible exception of the Thief series, No One 
 Lives Forever 2 features the most seamless and satisfying integration of first-person stealth to 
 date.   

  As in the original, there are lots of bonus objects to find and extra tasks to undertake. But this 
 time, there's an actual incentive for tackling these challenges. Skill points are awarded for completing 
 objectives, and these points can be used to improve eight different character stats through five 
 different levels. The effects of raised stats are noticeable without being unbalancing. For instance, 
 improving your weapons skill will reduce the amount of time it takes to load a new clip. It's nice 
 to have improved skills, but it's not necessary to complete a level.   

  The graphics are rendered using LithTech's next-generation Jupiter engine, and while they're somewhat 
 trumped by the next-generation Unreal engine on display in the Unreal Tournament 2003 demo, they 
 still look terrific. The Jupiter engine is capable of rendering large environments with a lot of 
 detail, and it seems particularly suited to creating some striking water effects. But the characters 
 in No One Lives Forever 2 are an especially notable triumph of imaginative design combined with 
 excellent technology. Fluid animations and eyes that actually track objects permit the game's characters 
 to truly act -- a rare feat in gaming. The soundtrack is once again an endearing mix of an orchestral 
 score and Ray Conniff-style space age pop. Also, those who played the original may notice that 
 a new actress has provided Cate's voice work for the sequel. It's a little jarring at first, but 
 you'll quickly adjust to it.           The Jupiter engine does a good job with large outdoor environments. 
    

 Facing stiff competition from games whose sole purpose is multiplayer action, the developers have 
 concentrated on the game's great single-player experience and (possibly wisely) decided to not 
 include any competitive online modes in No One Lives Forever 2. Instead, they've created a supplemental 
 four-chapter campaign that can be tackled cooperatively by up to four players. The campaign is 
 composed of reworked environments from the single-player game, and it's designed to be a true campaign 
 experience in that you can actually save and resume online sessions. The levels do a good job of 
 tailoring the action to a team of players. For instance, at one point you have to carry Cate's 
 unconscious body to a safe zone, an act that requires one person to bear the load while the others 
 to protect him or her, since you can't carry a readied weapon and a body simultaneously.   

  Since it's not a review until someone starts complaining, here you go: The multiplayer doesn't 
 have a lot of replay value. Also, there might be a few too many tasks that require you to scour 
 a level for a key object. Those criticisms might seem half-hearted -- in truth, there isn't really 
 a lot to complain about. No One Lives Forever 2 is a rousing success on every level. In an era 
 when grim, humorless realism appears to be the sensibility of choice among shooters, a game as 
 genuinely funny and good-natured as No One Lives Forever 2 is a welcome relief. That it's also 
 a genuinely excellent game makes it almost too good to be true.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (62 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: margevich
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 8, 2009 3:32 pm PT
Review:  I played this game right after completing the original, which was fun, especially the last two 
 thirds of the game. This sequel doesnt live up to the original. The main reasons - repetitive gameplay 
 and weak storyline. Then theres the memos and letters on every other step that try to be funny 
 but fail at it. I stopped playing this game after completing a few missions, i simply had no motivation 
 continuing unlike the original game that kept me hooked till the last seconds.
  I woulda been happy if they left the gameplay as it was in the original and just updated the graphics, 
 heck it coulda been a masterpiece game. Unfortunately this is what happens to most sequels, Deus 
 Ex, Thief, Unreal, Hidden & Dangerous etc. all sequels were letdowns.
  Another thing that i didnt like was that the levels feel small, although they are not always necessarely 
 small.
  The visuals are great and maybe even jawdropping, i couldn't believe it was lithtech engines next 
 generation, considering the first generation wasn't anything impressive, rather dated for that 
 time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smchacko
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 3, 2009 9:42 pm PT
Review:  NOLF2 is the sequel to the first hilarious game. First off, this second installment has its funny 
 moments but is far less funny than the first one, if you're looking for a laugh, check out part 
 1 before part 2.
  
  Besides the humor, the NOLF plays very closely to the first part but there's more item fetching 
 which can be difficult at times and it's easy to lose your sense of position on a map since everything 
 can look the same.
  
  A new points system allows players to upgrade various skills throughout the game. Points are gained 
 after completing key objectives, some are optional. Overall it's a shallow addition and adds little 
 to the game play.
  
  NOLF2 can be played using stealth or guns blazing. Playing stealth takes a TON of patience because 
 the AI is very good at detecting and following the player. This is a very tough game, even on easy, 
 good thing there's a quick save button. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: torinraven
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 23, 2008 11:28 am PT
Review:  I started playing this game back in 2002, and it is one of the games that I have spent the most 
 time playing. I have beat it time and time again, and have never gotten bored. I recently installed 
 the game again after a 5-year hiatus, and it was like playing for the first time again. I am still 
 impressed with how beautiful the game was for its time. The character modeling was excellent and 
 the motion capture was top notch, especially during the cutscenes. This is the product that made 
 me take interest in Monolith, so I was already excited for F. E. A. R. just because of who it was 
 from.
  
  Okay, so the enemy AI was pretty weak, but then again, the game wasn't supposed to be incredibly 
 challenging, just a lot of fun. It's great to read the little memos from the soviet army and H. A. R. M., 
 and to catch up on all the backstories. The banter that you hear from around the corner will keep 
 you chuckling
  
  This is a genuinely funny and enjoyable game which any gamer worth his salt should pick up. You 
 won't be disappointed 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deltahoot
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 27, 2008 10:58 am PT
Review:  If you played No One Lives Forever and loved it, you will love NOLF2. Just like the original it 
 has a good story line that is deeply woven into the game, (unlike many other first-person-shooters 
 out there) . It picks up were the last game ended and has many returning roles as well as many new 
 ones. One should play the first NOLF prior, but if you havent this one can stand alone. Not only 
 is the story original, it is also well written and at times very amusing. The gameplay is smooth 
 and easy to control, the graphics are very good, the levels are challenging but not too much. The 
 only complaints are the enemy AI is pretty stupid, and some levels can drone on and on. But this 
 is quickly made up for with the action and jokes. Overall very good game, and I would recommend 
 it to anyone. It is worthy of a 9 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stuckboy
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 26, 2008 9:10 am PT
Review:  NOLF2 takes everything that was good about NOLF1, subtracts everything that was bad about NOLF1, 
 then adds in a whole load of other stuff, the sum total of which is one hell of a game.
  
  No one lives forever 2 is all about the topsy turvy situations secret agent Cate Archer finds herself 
 in. Fighting off machine gun weilding french mimes whilst sitting on the shoulders of a fiery Scotsman 
 riding a tricycle. Doing battle with a wheelchair bound assassin over a pit of imitation lava. 
 Escaping a torture machine designed to turn people into human cubes. A katana duel with a ninja 
 in a flying house caught in a tornado. NOLF2 puts two fingers up to the idea of restraint and just 
 goes completely of the wall, resulting in a quirky, exiting and hugely entertaining adventure.
 
  
  The gunplay is simply perfect. Whilst enemies do not pose much of a threat unless in numbers, this 
 fits the 1960's spy action movie feel of the game like a glove. The gameplay is very dynamic, forcing 
 you to think about your position and how you could gain an advantage on your opponents; its not 
 all about being quick on the draw. In NOLF2 stealth is fun and engaging, unlike NOLF1 where it 
 was usually a tedious game of trial, error and quickload. If you do get spotted, then the gunplay 
 is so fun that you shouldn't really care. Enemies will drop armour and health when killed so a 
 more upfront approach doesn't leave you hunting desperately for armour pickups when low on health.
 
  
  The character voice acting and movement is what really brings the game to life. The dialogue is 
 often laugh out loud hilarious and the facial expressions of the character add real meaning to 
 their words. Both the heroes and villains have distinct personalities. Comparisons with Austen 
 Powers are inevetible, and so here is mine: NOLF2 is a bit like a much funnier version of Austen 
 Powers, only with a smart, hot looking girl as the main character, not an irritating goofy moron. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _RaDooM_
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 8, 2008 8:40 am PT
Review:  Exciting game, really. When I was playing, actually, I was strong affected by headaches cause of 
 the gameplay. You have no hints, trying to find out what to do next but having no idea. Well, that's 
 bit of a problem, needs maximum concetration, anyway. 
  
  If you find out quickly what to do, the game is really exciting... Well, a 9.3 from me... 
  Gameplay: 
 8
  Graphics: 10 
  ... and another 10 because I really love the areas! By now, this is my top rated game of all. When 
 I finished this game I was thinkin of NOLF 3, but many years passed and only 2 NOLF's are on the 
 market... Too bad.
  
  My favorite mission was the first one, havin more help from the so-called bird, Santa. Actually, 
 there were more Santa's in the game. Anyway, the first level is easy to complete, with or without 
 the bird... Oh, whatever, the game is pretty difficult, but worth's the wait, the effort, and the 
 moneys spent ! Hope you all enjoy it just like me... :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: juliotostado
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 29, 2008 9:13 pm PT
Review:  This game is how a sequel its supposed to be, to be as great or even better than the first one. 
 You can easily appreciate the effort on the development of this game, because every little detail 
 on NOLF 2 makes the game more interesting in such different ways. 
  
  The single player missions are just awesome, nice maps, excellent design of landscapes and characters, 
 realistic weapons (not counting the gadgets, that are really funny and useful inventions) , a really 
 well done AI that will surprise you all over the game and amusing optional objectives that will 
 not only help you to achieve more information about H. A. R. M. s plan, but also will give you skill 
 points to customize Cate Archers abilities, so you can carry more ammo, you will have a larger 
 health bar, you will stealth much faster and a lot of cool stuff.
  
  The multiplayer option is as good as any other FPS in existence, but NOLF 2 it has Co-op that is 
 playable online and in LAN networks, for up to 2 or 4 players. It may not sound so good, but it 
 is, the fun youll get with this option is way beyond than you imagine, just give it a try. Even 
 Ill dare to compare this co-op with the Perfect dark cooperative option.
  
  Comparing No one lives forever 2 with the first game is not a good way to review, but there are 
 a lot of fixes and new things that were added that is really a need to make a comparation. First 
 of all, Im really thankful that this time the frame rate was fixed, because in the first NOLF 
 no matter how powerful it was the Computer that you were using, there was some places in the game 
 that slowed down the frame rate in such an annoying way. Furthermore the graphic engine was quite 
 improved for the second part. Still The operative: No one lives forever is a really awesome game 
 too, in fact the problem with NOLF 2 is that the storyline is kinda slow, sometimes even confusing, 
 but in a certain part of the game this changes to a really exciting plot.
  
  Resuming, NOLF 2 is a "must play" game that every fan of the FPS should play, it has the influence 
 of so many spying games like Goldeneye 64, Metal Gear (in the stealth techniques and in the body 
 grab system that you can appreciate in MGS3) and even of the greatest FPS ever made, Perfect Dark 
 for the Nintendo 64. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingLim
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 22, 2008 5:54 am PT
Review:  What I love about No One Lives Forever II is the retro design and subtle humor that reminds me 
 of Kill Bill. The overall design of the game invokes a tinkling sense of humor as you assume the 
 role of a sassy female super-spy in outfits inspired from early Bond girls.
  
  This time round, you get to do weirdly interesting stuff in exotic places like fighting roof-top 
 jumping ninjas in a Japanese ninja village, throwing banana skins to trip those fat neighborhood 
 police in the streets of India and balancing on a tornado mid-air while surviving a boss gun-fight. 
 Wow! I mean that's very innovative. Plus, for a first-person-shooter, you get some RPG elements 
 like upgrading options for your health, firepower, speed, etc which kind of makes it a unique gaming 
 experience that appeals to fans of either genre, and it works.
  
  So in fact, I wish this game wouldn't stop here or Contract Jack (which is kind of a spin-off) , 
 cos this is one of the games with a potential setting for a bigger fan base in the future.
  
  KingLim 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CanadianEh
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 28, 2008 12:15 am PT
Review:  There's something special about the sequel to the critically acclaimed The Operative: No One Lives 
 Forever. Could it be the wide assortment of lovable, hilarious characters? Is it the story focusing 
 on the hopeless H. A. R. M. agency as they attempt to cause evil across the world again? Could it 
 be the stellar cross-over of gameplay between reckless shooting and careful stealth?
  
  It's everything. The way every detail meshes together is what defines this title and truly turns 
 it into a great FPS that can be easily recommended to anyone.
  
  You play the role of Cate Archer, who again reprises her part as the sexy super spy of the U. N. I. T. Y 
 agency who must once again thwart the evil H. A. R. M. agency. The story begins as Cate discovers 
 critical intelligence of H. A. R. M.'s next act of evil, Project Omega. As she investigates the project 
 further, it becomes clear to all involved that H. A. R. M. again has to be stopped. To accomplish 
 her task, Cate is sent to wide variety of exotic and not-so-exotic locations including a brief 
 stop-over in Japan (which also provides the training tutorial) , India, Antarctica, Siberia, and 
 even Akron, Ohio. Is there any other Akron?
  
  Since the game is set in the 1960's in the heart of the Cold War, the music and styles on screen 
 often fit with the tone. The music is campy, reminiscent of an Austin Powers movie. Character uniforms 
 or suits, robot designs, and locations are cliched 1960's archetypes, giving the game a noticeable 
 flair compared to other games in the genre. There's even your obligatory evil lair set underground 
 amidst a sea of lava, albeit in this case, fake lava.
  
  The shooting aspects in the game are as tight and solid as any you would have found in 2002, although 
 it's fair to say that the system feels slightly dated today. Regardless, the shooting never feels 
 tedious or boring, and the game constantly throws you new guns and cooler gadgets to test out in 
 the field of battle. Aside from your standard FPS fare of assault rifles, hand guns, and rocket 
 launchers, the gadgets are far more interesting. Joining your inventory could be the Angry Kitty, 
 used to distract your assailants with its incessant crying; the welder disguised as a can of hair 
 spray, so you can get through any locked doors or vaults in your way; or perhaps even the mascara 
 decoder, used to well... decrypt any electronic touch pads.
  
  However, depending on your play style, your weapon of choice may be the CT-180 Utility Launcher. 
 Using this weapon and using the proper form of ammo, you have the advantage of tranquilizing your 
 targets, tracking their movements on the mini-map, firing a jolt of electricity into them, or disabling 
 any nearby cameras. If you plan to play a stealth game, you're certain to be using this weapon 
 the most.
  
  Unfortunately, the stealth gameplay can be a frustrating ordeal, as I often found myself blowing 
 my cover and having to resort to shooting everyone instead. Enemies can often see you peak around 
 walls no matter how swift you are, proving that the only safe location to hide is in the shadows, 
 marked by an icon on screen as soon as you enter it. It may be the ideal form of play in this tale 
 of espionage, but it certainly isn't the easiest mode of travel, and with few consequences of going 
 on a wild shooting spree, there's little reason to even attempt stealth.
  
  No One Live Forever 2: A Spy in H. A. R. M.'s Way is truly a great FPS both in the presentation and 
 execution. With the '60's vibe, the game is quite frankly, hilarious in every sense of the word. 
 Whether it's a battle in a spinning tornado, a long tricycle chase against a French mime riding 
 a unicycle, or the devious and absurd "Man Handler" contraption, it's easy to laugh at the insanity 
 happening around you. For those interested in a FPS with humor and style, it's an easy title to 
 recommend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mohitmukheja
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 12, 2008 10:53 am PT
Review:  i will not give very very high rating to this game as i was disappointed by the difficulty of this 
 game..
  but the game is pure fun and good to play.. graphics are also very good and the missions are enjoyable..
 
  variety of weapons and missions with varied difficulty
  after playing "no one lives forever" i wanted to play its second part and wasnt disappoined as 
 the graphics and everything was better...
  still i feel that the developers should have packed the game with varied new options than NLF part 
 one.. but again this is what makesa game a sequel...
  this game is worth playing but i will not play it more than once...
  yes it is engaging but again 
 i wont say that story is something out standing...
  this is that kind of game which u will start playing and like to finish it...
  the fun is in 
 doing missions and killing people and not much in story and sounds etc..
  the graphics looks like cartoonish but still nice..
  also the game is funny sometimes which is 
 cool....
  but again not very difficult to play... 
  have fun and enjoy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SYdoggXxX
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 30, 2008 6:15 pm PT
Review:  The original No One Lives Forever stood out for many reasons: great cast of characters, excellent 
 scripted sequences, genuine sense of humor that bordered on hilarity, and an excellent combination 
 of action and stealth gameplay elements that gave the game a unique feel. NOLF was such a fresh 
 breath of air in the shooter genre that you couldn't help but fall in love with it. The sequel, 
 No One Lives Forever 2: A Spy in H. A. R. M.'s Way doesn't deviate far from that formula, yet manages 
 to feel just as fresh and exciting as the first game. From beginning to end, NOLF 2 takes everything 
 that was great from the first game, adds a couple of subtle but great touches, and builds up an 
 incredible experience that is impossible not to recommend. In other words, No One Lives Forever 
 2 is the definition of a truly amazing game.
  
  NOLF 2 continues the story arc introduced in the first game, where the evil H. A. R. M. organization 
 was hellbent on wreaking havoc across the world. In the first outing, Cate Archer, the games' protagonist, 
 managed to temporarily stop H. A. R. M., but they weren't completely defeated. Now they're back with 
 more evil plans; this time the plans involve something called Project Omega, which without spoiling 
 much, involves the development of a strong force that could give H. A. R. M. the edge they need to 
 achieve their plans. Of course, Cate and her fellow spy organization UNITY won't sit idly by, so 
 it's up to Cate to find out more information on Project Omega, the consequences that could unfold 
 if H. A. R. M. are successful, and the means to stop their plans. In doing so, Cate will travel to 
 all sorts of exotic locations, some truly exotic as far as game settings are concerned. First there's 
 a trip to Japan (which serves as the games' tutorial sequence) , then there's a long and memorable 
 outing in Siberia, then you'll get the opportunity to visit Akron, Ohio (!) and find some curious 
 facts about a certain character in the first game, later you'll venture into places like India 
 and Antarctica, and eventually you'll infiltrate into H. A. R. M.'s headquarters. The story in NOLF 
 2 is just as good as the one in the first game, it's gripping, funny, full of intrigues, and succeeds 
 at being the driving element of the game.
  
  Sprinkled across all the levels is the game's trademark sense of humor, which is what really gives 
 the NOLF series it's unique feel. Be it a funny conversation between two guards (conversations 
 that can honestly make you feel bad about killing the poor saps...) , a cheeky cutscene, hilarious 
 letters in the form of intelligence items (which sometimes poke fun at the game itself) , or just 
 something plain bizarre (be prepared for when the true identity of the french assassin is revealed, 
 you may end up wetting your pants) . NOLF 2 is a game that doesn't bother taking itself too seriously, 
 so the good nature of the game is present everywhere. Even firefights manage to be funny due to 
 the outrageous comments made by your enemies as well as their comical death animations.
  
  The core gameplay of NOLF 2 remains very similar compared to the one from the first game, which 
 means you'll carefully infiltrate locations trying to remain undetected, making smart use of your 
 available arsenal and inventory. You'll certainly favor silenced weapons since alarming a group 
 of enemies can result in a hairy situation (at least on the higher difficulty levels) . You will 
 also scourge places for important intelligence items (which serve for both humor and storytelling) . 
 This time around however, the intelligence items become a much more important part of the gameplay 
 since you're awarded skill points for every piece of intel that you collect. Skill points can be 
 used to customize certain traits of Cate, such as stamina, stealth, armor, gadget use, etc. While 
 earning skill points to increase Cates' abilities isn't mandatory, it's certainly rewarding and 
 gives you a nice incentive to try to find every available piece of intelligence on the levels. 
 Another great new addition is that you can now search enemy bodies for both ammo and intel items. 
 This means that you will hardly ever run out of ammo. You also have the ability to carry bodies 
 to take them out of enemy sight, which greatly helps you in keeping a low profile. There's also 
 a cover element where you will remain invisible provided you remain behind proper cover and don't 
 move. And thankfully, enemy alarms no longer alert every single guard in the level, only those 
 in nearby areas. All this additions make a stealthy approach much more satisfying and less frustrating.
 
  
  One thing that has changed quite a bit is the matter in which the story is presented. Essentially, 
 cutscenes have become much shorter and gone are the interactive sections where you could alter 
 some of the dialog. While the lack of interactive dialog isn't a terrible loss (though I wished 
 it would've stayed) , the shorter cutscenes rob us of the great interaction between Cate and the 
 rest of the characters. There are times in the early sections where it's easy to forget you're 
 playing as Cate Archer. In the latter levels cutscenes become more frequent, but they're still 
 very short. I understand that one of the main criticisms of the first game were the somewhat interminable 
 cutscenes, but I for one loved them since the acting was terrific. But what little there is, is 
 certainly memorable and top notch. Once again the voice acting is phenomenal, and the facial expressions 
 from the characters makes them truly come to life.
  
  Aside from the shorter cutscenes, the only other criticism I can think of for NOLF 2 is that on 
 many levels, the game relies on infinitely respawning enemies to keep things challenging. I've 
 always said that this one cliche games need to eradicate as soon as possible because it seriously 
 hurts the immersion. There are also a few areas that can be a bit frustrating, but they're very 
 rare and certainly not impossible to overcome.
  
  Honestly though, whatever criticisms one could come up with for this game are tossed out the window 
 for the simple fact that every other aspect of the game is totally superb. NOLF 2 is a game that 
 successfully blends a great story with genuine humor and exciting gameplay, as well as many, many 
 memorable moments. In short, this is the kind of game that you just love to play and can't get 
 enough of it. Just like the original, No One Lives Forever 2 is the definition of a truly amazing 
 game. Now, can someone please tell Monolith that we are dying for a third outing?
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: aschuhart
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 26, 2008 6:47 pm PT
Review:  No One Lives Forever 2: A Spy In H. A. R. M. S Way was an OUTSTANDING sequel to the original which 
 was a huge hit itself. However, unlike most first person shooters, there are certain aspects of 
 NOLF2 that set it apart from most games in the genre. One of the biggest things for me was the 
 humor! You typically don't really see any humor in first person shooters but NOLF2 incorporated 
 a good bit of funny antics without making the game feel cheesy. Rather it was throwing a banana 
 at an enemy or just the simple humorous conversations between enemy NPCs. It really made the game 
 that much more delightful in my opinion. Also the interaction with a lot of the random objects 
 was something fairly new at the time. 
  
  Another thing that really set NOLF2 apart from other shooters was the fact you could complete your 
 mission without really shooting at all. The game allowed you to use to stealth to achieve goals 
 instead of going up against overwhelming odds and just having to gun your way through. This stealth 
 ability was also done to perfection! Enemies who were alerted to your presence would run for alarm 
 boxes and signal to others that they were under attack... but instead of always being on the alert 
 from then on, they would eventually give up searching for you and you could go back to using stealth. 
 It helped give a little added realism. 
  
  The graphics, sound, and story were quite solid for NOLF2 and I really had no complaints in any 
 of these departments. This is a really fun game to play and the added humor just makes it that 
 much more enjoyable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mehedee
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 5, 2008 9:33 am PT
Review:  I have just bought the game. So i can't tell you how much the game entertains me or others.
  
  I liked this game from the beginning. I don't like much to play first person games. But this 
 game has some exceptional things. I can say about only 2 first person game which I've liked. One 
 is crysis and the other one is this game.
  
  there are many interesting topics in this game then the other first person shooters. It doesn't 
 have the repetitive shooting experience like Painkiller: Overdose, Vivi sector or others. I have also 
 played Half life 2: Episode 2 . But i couldn't like Half life as i liked no one lives forever.
 
  
  This game's graphics is very well. Although this game Was made 3 years ago. The game play and and 
 the sounds are also much well then the other FPS.
  
  I think the publishers of this game should make another sequel of this game.
  
  I hope that 
 i didn't make a lot of grammatical problems in this game. Because my mothertounge is not English. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chandu83
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 17, 2008 11:49 pm PT
Review:  In the year 2000, gamers were treated to an amazing 60's style movie like game called The Operative: 
 No One Lives Forever. I had the good fortune of playing that game when it first came out, although 
 my computer was severely lacking in the hardware, I managed to finish the demo a few times.
  
  Very soon, I went on to play the full version and enjoyed it immensely. Now, after 5 years 
 of its release I finally started playing No One Lives Forever 2: A Spy In H. A. R. M's way.
  
  I am delighted that the game picks up right where NOLF 1 left us. The game retains the 60's style 
 setting of the first game. If you enjoyed NOLF 1, you are going to enjoy NOLF 2. But first let 
 us talk about the various features of the game.
  
  Graphics
  
  The graphics in this game are top notch. For its time, the game required a high end computer to 
 make it run at high settings, but most of the current computes can handle the game without any 
 problems. I played the game at high settings and never had any frame rate issues. But of course, 
 my computer is way over the requirements, but I suspect even medium range modern computers will 
 run the game without any problems.
  
  Audio
  
  Audio in the game is brilliant. The music in the entire game is has a 60's groovy psychedelic pop 
 theme, with a few remixes thrown in depending up on the location. All in all, the music complements 
 the theme of the game, unlike some games, where the music and setting do not match; none of that 
 here.
  
  Gameplay
  
  The game has some very basic RPG elements. There are different attributes that can be upgraded 
 over time within the game. Skill points can be collected by finding hidden packages, intelligence 
 items, messages etc. Once enough skill points are collected, they can be spent for upgrading various 
 skills, such as targeting ability, searching ability, gadgets, etc.
  Upgrading one or the other will not make too much of significance, because the game is linear, 
 but it can make certain parts a little easier.
  
  One of the aspects that made the first game so popular was the humor; I am delighted to say that 
 this game has managed to retain all the humor, and if you actually spend time reading through the 
 letters, messages, memos, or hearing conversations, you will find yourself having a good laugh.
 
  
  Being an Indian, it was funny to hear the Indian thugs swearing at one another. Suffice to say 
 that Indians don't actually curse their enemies the way they do in the game, nevertheless it was 
 quite funny.
  
  There is one thing about the game I didn't enjoy as much, minor as it maybe, it is worth mentioning. 
 In certain parts of the game, enemies tend to spawn infinitely; there is just no end to it. I thought 
 for a game that sets very high standards, this is a bit of a blemish on a clean slate. However, 
 this shouldn't stop anyone from playing the game.
  
  In conclusion, No One Lives Forever 2 is a fun experience, and I enjoyed it all the way through.
 
  
  Give it a chance. I think you will enjoy the exploits of Cate Archer just as much as I did :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Luiggi_DiMaggio
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 25, 2008 3:56 pm PT
Review:  This game is in some ways much better than the first, first the story,, maybe in some ways is similar 
 the first, but in the first all was predictible in some ways, except for the final maybe, (in my 
 case i saw it coming that final) , in this game, you dont know what happend until you finish the 
 8 or 9 lvl, well yes you have and idea of what happend, but you dont know with against what you 
 fight.
  
  For the players of the first Nolf, you will see a lot of guys you saw in the first game,, but the 
 best of all the game was the humor,, in the first you listen conversations of bad guys, but of 
 casual conversations, of what happend in his life, in the second you going to listen conversations 
 of work,, for the guys who have a job you will understand,, the guys talk about a syndicates, about 
 is bad logo and how others organizations win they in the Organizatios of evil award, and about 
 is shirts, and how they look bad and you will see how is shirts change in the game,, or talking 
 about the dead partners who goes to his chief and ask for paper for the toillete and the chief 
 kill for impertinent,,,, also you can see movies really humoristic,, for me the best, was The Director 
 of H. A. R. M talking with is mom,
  If you read this review, and you know something about the developers of Nolf, tell me if is going 
 to be Nolf 3, because in the final cutseen the director talk about is return, (Nolf 3) but this 
 game was realesed in 2002, and is not news,, Monolith is making F.. e. a. r, and no news about NOlf, 
 and i think Fox Interactive close is doors, so i dont know,, i waiting for Nolf 3, and i wanna 
 see Cate Archer in Next Gen,,, Let the force be whit you, young padawan 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DryvBy2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 3:53 pm PT
Review:  +Long, interesting, and creative single player experience. Plenty of action, stealth, and humor 
 to go around forever.
  +Really good looking textures that make the games graphics look good, even for today. Voice acting 
 is almost Hollywood-like.
  -Multiplayer vehicles feel generic.
  -AI can be dumb as a bag of bananas sometimes.
  
  No One Lives Forever 2 is one of the very 
 best sequels of any video game. The story follows closely to the original while being completely 
 new. Best of all, they kept the original formula from the previous game. You star as a very beautiful 
 female 1960's spy, set out to destroy H. A. R. M., a fictional terrorist organization.
  
  If any game deserves a Hollywood makeover, this one does. The game has a terrific story. It's clever 
 with the humor and serious when it needs to be. Mainly funny. It takes place after the events of 
 No One Lives Forever, leaving you wandering around searching for clues to stop H. A. R. M. from shooting 
 nuclear devices off in America. H. A. R. M. has hired ninja clans, robotic engineers, and Indians 
 (not Native Americans) to aide them in global destruction. You're job is solely to collect clues 
 through the levels and shoot loads of these suckers. To actually reveal more than that gives away 
 too many plot lines. 
  
  The game plays much like any shooter but implements some various spy gear you can use. All of the 
 spy gear is straight out of a female James Bond movie. I guess that would make it a Jane Bond movie. 
 Here's just a few examples of the gear. Your lipstick actually pulls out and turns into a miniature 
 camera. No spy can go without a camera, am I right? You'll also have some hairspray that has a 
 screw-on top for access to a torch. You'll also be able to throw bananas on the ground for a trip 
 mine. By trip mine, I clearly mean that when they step on it, they'll trip. Aside from the cool 
 gear you'll encounter straight out of your purse, you'll have a load of great lethal weapons. Ninja 
 stars. Katanas. SMGs. Pistols. Rocket Launchers. Crossbows. The usual for a spy game. All of the 
 weapons host a variety of different types of bullets, giving you more to pick from than just shooting 
 mindlessly. Taking out a 1960's robot requires more than just bullets and rockets.
  
  The level design is incredible. There's so many different types of environments you'll run into. 
 One level will have you roaming in a Japanese village, then a few levels down the road, you'll 
 be traveling with a drunken pilot through snow filled hills, searching for clues to the story. 
 One of the most incredible levels is the trailer park. Dozens of ninjas are trying to kill you. 
 And in the background there is a tornado coming towards the park. While fighting, trailers will 
 be flipping all over the place. Finally, you'll end up taking cover in a trailer, along with a 
 boss. During this boss fight, you'll be swept away on a tornado ride. The map will literally be 
 torn apart as you battle, so aside from watching your back from ninja stars, you'll have to watch 
 your step as you may fall out from the bottom to be pulled apart in the wind!
  
  On the long side, the game really seems like it's two games in one. That and because of how many 
 twist can happen in a game like this. The cool thing is how the game doesn't get old. It just gets 
 better and better. The characters are really likable too, including the main terrorist. They put 
 so much effort in the characters that the game really seems like you're in a great spy film. The 
 graphics help this feeling too. Monolith always does a terrific job on their games, especially 
 with textures. Not that the characters and weapons are low polygonal trash, it's just that the 
 textures are such good quality that even if they were low, they'd still look decent. The faces 
 look really cool. They're cartoony and realistic looking at the same time. When you look at this 
 game, the one thing you'll remember is the art work they put into it. It's bright. It's colorful. 
 It's the 60's. While the textures are good, the game also has a good amount of effects. The one 
 thing it's lacking is some sort of ragdolls, but understandable since the game is a few years old. 
 Aside from graphics, the voice acting is really spot-on. The characters' voices look like they 
 really fit their characters. It really puts more realism on the game than you can imagine.
  
  The multiplayer is your typical death match, team death match, and capture the flag. There's 
 a few other spy game modes as well. The multi player is hosted on GameSpy, and it doesn't require 
 their software to be installed to play. Even though it's something we've all played before, the 
 gameplay is so amazing in this game, that the game feels a little different too. The only thing 
 that doesn't do that well is the vehicles. They felt a little generic in the single player at times, 
 so adding it into the multiplayer just doesn't feel right. It's a little tacked on.
  
  I must say, if you have a fairly decent computer and a few extra bucks laying around the hours, 
 you should really pick up this game. It still looks good and will keep you entertained for a good 
 while. I think you'll be presently surprised by how well the story is written as well. Plus, there's 
 nothing like a good laugh during an action game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ng2006
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 1:10 am PT
Review:  I shall divide my review in two parts:
  
  *The things I liked about the game:
  Great and vivid graphic with nice background. They did their best to make objects and details around 
 you look real and it's fun intracting with them. Clear sound and music quality is a good point 
 too. There are also a lot of dialogues made in the game which some of them are very funny.
  Smart and hard-@$$ AIs is another thing that makes the game interesting and challenging. Although 
 sometimes they make you laugh but they're very smart.
  Intelligence are more complicated in this episode. You'll collect a lot intelligence during the 
 game but not all of them are helpful to your missions.
  I didn't encounter any bug even after playing it on different PCs with different OSs and that was 
 another good point about the game.
  
  *Things I didn't enjoy about the game:
  First of all I shall mention some levels in which you've got to play a silly hide-n-seek game instead 
 of fighting your way or proceeding as usual. You won't be geared up and you can't kill anyone. 
 You may just hide or escape. At first look I thought it might sound interesting like a new thing 
 but after a while I became bored. I started yawning and so I preffered to cheat in order to switch 
 to another challenging level. Most of the time you'll find this game so exciting and challenging 
 but a few levels may disappoint you that way.
  I thing equipment were better in first NOLF than this one. I didn't enjoy my gear box very much. 
 They look kind of hard-to-get-along-with for me.
  
  Although NOLF2 is a very great game but I can't rate it like NOLF1 as a perfect or a superb game. 
 I didn't enjoy it like NOLF1 so I may just put a +8 for it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Neloy
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 13, 2007 1:53 pm PT
Review:  This game is so good that I played the campaign for 4 -5 times. The storyline is very deep. Also 
 the game has lot of variations and RPG like character level up system. You mod your character with 
 your experience points which you can get from objectives and intelligent data. Even most of the 
 intelligence data are important to note. The whole game is hilarious like the first game. However 
 the game relaxed on the stealth section which was so imminent in the series. The A. I. of the enemy 
 are even better in this game. The sixties theme and the catchy music makes the player feel they 
 are really in the sixties era. Not to mention, Cate Archer is hotter than before. i urge every 
 FPS and non-FPS game to play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: totalgridlock
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 31, 2007 9:48 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: 9/10
  Its the swinging Sixties, and the world needs saving once again. Thanks to the dreaded acronym 
 agency (H. A. R. M.) those pesky Russians have a cunning plan to destroy the world and start off World 
 War III. Protagonist, heroine and sexy super-spy Cate Archer combines the outrageous hipness of 
 Austin Powers with the no-nonsense sophistication of Connerys James Bond, packaged neatly in the 
 body of an Avengers wannabe. The game itself is quite similar. Its Goldeneye mixed with Serious 
 Sam, with a healthy dash of Thief thrown in for good measure. What we end up with is an exceptionally 
 good first-person shooter with the emphasis on sneaking rather than shooting. You are a spy, after 
 all. Theres something incredibly satisfying that comes from silently slipping behind a guard, 
 dispatching him silently, hiding the body in that handy linen closet over there, disabling the 
 camera and pouring sugar into the generator before your foe can say, Die, capitalist pig! Not 
 that Cate Archer cant handle herself in a firefight: whilst playing you often find yourself going 
 toe-to-toe with any number of the most stereotypical baddies you can dream of. Deadly female ninjas. 
 Bumbling Soviet Comrades. Bizarrely purple-jumpsuited bouncers. Mimes. Your weapons are, for the 
 most part, standard shooter fare. Handguns, machine guns, crossbow, the ubiquitous sniper rifle. 
 All complemented with a great array of gadgets: anything a super-spy needs to save the world. Lock-pick, 
 decoder, handy keychain light, exploding kitty. The game levels take you all over the world, from 
 Japan to Russia to Ohio to India and so on, with great level design, fun environments and plenty 
 of things to see and do in each area with some frankly insane situations thrown in. Think black-and-white 
 sequence from The Wizard Of Oz and youre getting warm. Theres also a slight RPG stat-building 
 element in the game; as you accomplish tasks or gather intelligence you gain points which can be 
 used to improve your abilities in the areas of weaponry, stamina, stealth, armour, etc. And, to 
 top it all of, the gently ridiculous humour that permeates the game makes it a definite winner 
 with me.
  
  Graphics: 8/10
  For a game that is five years old now, NOLF2 still looks good. Its powered by the Lithtech 2.0 
 engine, one of the more flexible engines of the era. Of course the textures arent as detailed 
 and there are few fancy effects to make you gaze in amazement, but its a fine-looking game. Everything 
 is bright and interesting, which is all that matters. The character models can be a little blocky, 
 but the faces are pretty well detailed and animated.
  
  Sound: 9/10
  The music is fantastic in this game. Straight from the opening sequence to Austin Powers first 
 outing you get the idea. Fun and slightly over-the-top. The sound effects and voice work are also 
 very good.
  
  Value: 8/10
  Its not that long a game, and it is very story-driven, meaning that replay value is inherently 
 limited. However, its fun enough to play through a few times if you take a break in between, and 
 there are multi-player options available.
  
  Tilt: 9/10
  Superb.
  
  Pros:
  Awesome swinging Sixties setting and theme, with all the appropriately ridiculous paranoia of the 
 age to boot.
  Good variety of locales and levels.
  Requires more thought than a typical run-and-gun shooter.
  
  Cons:
  Once youve got the hang 
 of sneaking around and knowing your enemies abilities the game becomes a bit too easy.
  A little too short.
  
  Conclusion:
  Much more than the sum of its parts would suggest. Humorously 
 engaging and inexplicably good fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ivory_soul
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 8, 2007 8:12 am PT
Review:  The Good: Great graphics, amazing dialog, story, and style, and humor, great level design and stealth 
 game play, cool weapons and gadgets, upgrading your abilities actually helps, Cate Archer is a 
 major hottie
  
  The Bad: Multiplayer is just ok, should have also been on the Xbox
  
  NOLF2 is a very under appreciated game, and that's why no one knows about it. It was critically 
 acclaimed and wasn't in sales. This is due to the fact that the main protagonist is a female. NOLF2 
 was the best FPS of it's time and is even better than some are today. The game has great humor, 
 voice acting, dialog, and game play ideas. The story is about Cate Archer who is trying to stop 
 the evil H. A. R. M organization from finishing Project: Omega. No one knows what it is but it has 
 to be stopped. In the mean time Russia and the US are starting a new war. While the story is great 
 with lot's of humor such as in India you're on the back of a tricycle with your gun while you stop 
 a midget French mime on a unicycle... yeah you heard me! The game is also serious at the same time 
 and Monolith pulled this off perfectly. The stealth in the game is also just right in difficulty 
 and isn't unforgiving like Splinter Cell or Metal Gear Solid. The game is like a 70s James Bond 
 really and it pulls the feel off perfectly. The weapons in the game are pretty cool like a mascara 
 stun gun, keychain flashlight, a mirror decoder, a hairspray welder etc. You also have a crossbow 
 that can have different ammo types and even a utility launcher to disable cameras and short circuit 
 Super Solider Robots. The game never gets repetitive or old since you switch from stealth to fire 
 fights often. While you can pick up intelligence in the game from drawers, letter lying around 
 etc to gain points to upgrade your abilities. The online multiplayer is also fun but nothing too 
 special. You HAVE to play NOLF2 because you're missing out on one of the best FPSs of all time. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sgtfoxy
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 20, 2007 11:27 am PT
Review:  Nolf2 places you as a spy investigating an evil group called H. A. R. M. You go through levels discovering 
 their evil schemes. The gameplay is great on this game. The controls are smooth and you have some 
 options. If you choose to, on the later levels you can play them like they are Call of Duty levels, 
 but it is a lot more fun to be a spy and silently assassinate all of the enemies. The sound is 
 alright, but mainly because the voices sound like they belong in a cartoon show. The phrases and 
 speech are pretty interesting because you can listen to enemies conversations if you are stealthy. 
 The graphics are great for an animated-looking game. I would highly recommend this game to anyone 
 because of its various choices. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fatboyvinnie
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 10, 2007 10:49 am PT
Review:  Story-You play as special agent Cate Archer, a special agent working for the anti-terrorist organisation 
 called UNITY, helping to stop the terrorist organisation HARM from trying to take over the world.
 
  
  Graphics-This was a incredibly sharp game back in the day and still looks very good by todays standards. 
 All the character models are well detailed and actually look like their talking with well done 
 animations and realistic face motions. The levels in the game all look like the real life counterparts 
 used with china being a good example with lots of pretty looking waterfalls and lot's of Asian 
 style houses all throughout the level. The guns also look very realistic and look close to the 
 real life versions and there are even a few comedy weapons such as a banana peel used to trip up 
 your enemies
  
  Game Play-This game uses a variety of stealth and straight up action. The stealth mechanic works 
 by hiding in shadows, walking behind enemies so they can't hear you and making sure not to hit miscellaneous 
 objects strewn around the level such as bottles. If you are seen, the enemy will probably go straight 
 for the alarm in the level which means you will have to deal with a large quantity of enemies for 
 a short period of time. This game also features a light RPG system where if you complete side tasks 
 and your main objectives you will receive points that you can use to upgrade your statistics such 
 as shooting and lock picking.
  
  Sounds-The sounds of the weapons all sound like they should with the banana peel being especially 
 comedic. The voice acting all sounds great and they actually talk as if they are acting in a movie 
 so it definitely immerses you into the storyline. All the background effects all sound superb as 
 well such as water flowing down the waterfall to a tornado tearing up nearby houses. The soundtrack 
 also has that 60's feel to it that immerses you into the 60's atmosphere
  
  Replay Value-This is a long single player game and will easily take 10-20 hours to complete and 
 maybe even more trying to get every side quest finished. There is also a multi player mode included 
 but nobody really plays it anymore so you will have to search hard to find a populated server.
 
  
  Overall-No One Lives Forever 2 is a great stealth action game that has a lot of creative and funny 
 ideas to keep it engaging throughout. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Helena73
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 22, 2007 8:18 pm PT
Review:  The storyline in the this sequel is what deus-ex would have been if there was humor in it. Picture 
 the avengers and Austin Powers rolled into one! There are more cut scenes than the first one which 
 makes the game play more interesting, and a surprise turn when a foe turns into a friend!
  
  The sequel has some interesting indirect political statements.
  Upon finishing the game, 
 past the credits, there are 2-3 little cut scenes which are not only quirky but lead me to believe 
 that we might see a NOLF3!!
  
  I just wished it was a bit longer.. and it would have been nice to have Cate interact a bit more 
 like in the first one.
  
  Way to go guys!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monco59
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 26, 2007 6:47 am PT
Review:  If youre reading this, youve probably played The Operative: No One Lives Forever (and if not, 
 do so post haste!) . NOLF was a stunning game in every department and managed to reinvigorate the 
 FPS genre. In fact, it was the best shooter to come out after the legendary Half Life in 1998. 
 In light of this, I am pleased to say that the return of our favorite super spy, the lovely Cate 
 Archer, is a resounding succes and further proof that Monolith is one of the premier developers 
 today.
  
  The gameplay in NOLF 2 is close to the original, meaning you have a wide variety of gadgets and 
 weapons at your disposal, the choice of either going in guns blazing or trying a more subtle insertion. 
 What made the first game such a great game were the ingenious and hilarious characters, deep yet 
 funny storyline, great action, adaptive AI and just but gustingly funny dialogue. NOLF 2 manages 
 to incorporate all of these traits and still keep things feeling fresh and exciting. No matter 
 which way you choose to tackle a mission, you are guaranteed to have a lot of fun doing it. Cate 
 is once again outfitted with improbable gadgets straight out of Sean Connerys Bond -movies. Particularly 
 funny are the banana (which causes pursuing enemies to slip and bang their head on the ground) , 
 Angry Kitten (a proximity device that pounces on unsuspecting guards) and the bear trap (which 
 works like the real thing) . While Cate still has her barrette/lock pick, mirror/coderbreaker and 
 hairspray/welding flame, I was a bit disappointed to see that instead of the hilarious lipstick/grenade, 
 she now has regular fragmentation nades. Whats up with that? The gadgets come in handy multiple 
 times during a mission, but thankfully you can pack some serious firepower if the need arises (and 
 it will!) . Among the weapons are mainstays like the AK-47, Tommy gun and Sten. You will also wield 
 katanas, throwing stars, missile launchers disguised as briefcases and a whole litany of other 
 great firearms. Once again, the game has funny and inventive missions set in exotic (and not as 
 exotic) locales. Youll get to visit places like India, Japan, Ohio, the Antarctic and even the 
 same underwater base you had to infiltrate in NOLF. And in these exotic locales are some of the 
 best video game villains you will ever encounter. Characters like the Mime King will have you holding 
 your sides, while you should be putting two in his head. One of the high points of the game is 
 set in India, requiring you to chase the Mime King on a trikey through the streets. Pure gold!
 
  
  The game also introduced a welcome leveling feature, adding rudimentary RPG gameplay. Each time 
 you find intelligence items littered throughout the maps (in addition to points, they also give 
 hilarious insight into the games story) , defeat bosses or complete missions, Cate is awarded with 
 experience points. These can be then used to improve her aim, health, armor, carrying capacity 
 etc. It manages to bring some variation into the standard shooter gameplay, and is a very appreciated 
 addition. This also means that you can customize Cate to fit your style of play. More aggressive 
 players will want to max out the stamina, armor, marksmanship and weapons traits, while players 
 relying on sneakiness will opt for improving stealth and gadgets.
  
  The Lithtech Jupiter engine cranks out beautiful graphics. The locations really come alive, thanks 
 to great textures and dynamic lighting. Character models are equally impressive, with a ton of 
 detail and even facial expressions. Weapons spew out tracers and shell casings, making for some 
 engaging firefights. The game will need a moderately powerful rig to run properly, but its not 
 a system hog.
  
  Once again, NOLF scores a perfect 10 thanks to its groovy music that would feel at home in any 
 60s spy movie. Not only is it appropriate, its extremely good and well done. Particularly the 
 main theme manages to set the mood just right. Each location also has its own distinctive soundtrack, 
 that feels at home and manages to be funny and awesome at the same time.
  
  Not to be forgotten, the voice acting is some of the best ever heard. All of the actors brought 
 their A material, resulting in everyone from major players like Cate and Armstrong to even the 
 lowliest thugs and H. A. R. M. grunts sounding real and humorous. All the great writing in the world 
 couldnt save a game with bad voice work, but thankfully NOLF 2 doesnt fail in that department. 
 Equally impressive are the weapon and ambient sounds, each resembling their real life counterparts 
 in a crisp and satisfying way. This game is candy for the ears!
  
  No matter if you played the first NOLF or not, this game is an all out explosion of fun, action 
 and emotional moments. Everything combines to create one of the most memorable games ever made, 
 and this is sure to be a classic in the making, just like its older sibling. In short, to not 
 give No One Lives Forever 2 a try would be Criminal. Criminal with a capital C! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BentSea
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 18, 2007 8:54 am PT
Review:  Right out of the front gate, No One Lives Forever 2 goes for a fun trip through a 60's spy show 
 with the hot well dressed spy chick Kate Archer. NOLF2 oozes style like David Hasselhoff oozes 
 his own hair gel. There's nothing serious or weighted about this game, you keep playing the game 
 because you like it. And it rewards the stealthy gamer with dialog that simply just has to be heard. 
 Trust me, you will laugh.
  
  Visually, NOLF2 delivers marvelously. It did things on my computer that I had previously only seen 
 done with a Geforce 3. The water effects caught my eye the best and frankly, thinking back I wish 
 I had seen more of it throughout the game. Smooth and detailed character animations and a style 
 that just revels in the hippie days of Charlie's Angels, Shaft, and The 6 Million Dollar Man. Full 
 of various locations, as it even says on the box from Calcutta, India to research labs in Antarctica, 
 and even to the exotic location of an Ohio trailer park, no one place is every used for too long 
 of a stretch. However, the largest and most irritating bug in the game, that I encountered, was 
 a graphical glitch that frequently messed up the weapons in ways that would occasionally seriously 
 obstruct the screen. It usually happened after a reload, and the patch did not fix it.
  
  If this game were a cake it would be one layer with lots of little touches on top. An otherwise 
 totally straight forward action tittle, NOLF2 includes an RPG lite system that lets you beef Kate 
 up. While an interesting feature, it just does not totally belong, and was wisely played so low 
 key you will frequently forget its existence. Most of the icing on this cake is in the dialog between 
 the NPCs and in the large amount of documents and messages you'll have to pick up as a spy. Other 
 tiny things, such as the recoverable bolts from your crossbow, or tidbits such as wind chimes that 
 you can ring, just ad to the pure immersion in the game. Sadly very few things just totally break 
 the suspension of disbelief like re spawning enemies in an area you've already emptied. It's not 
 a bad thing, but some people, myself included, wont like it.
  
  The game play is very fast paced and fun, with a few slow interesting parts. The characters are 
 entertaining and the enemies equally so. The cast includes both serious renditions and quality 
 characters such as Kate as well as a generous helping of pure parodies, both good and bad. The 
 spoken dialog is extremely well delivered. However the character animations in the in game cut 
 scenes, while very well done and funny, left a little to be desired in their motion.
  
  This is a fine game, both well polished and a little rough around the edges at times. No One Lives 
 Forever 2 comes from a superb mixture of balanced gameplay, excellent graphics, sound, and design. 
 It is well worth any action fans time and effort. Easily one of the elite few of the best games 
 of the year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Carpenbasstard
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 16, 2006 3:40 pm PT
Review:  I have been through 3 computer systems since this games release... I have loaded and played though 
 it again for about the 4th time and it still looks amazing and I still laugh out loud at some of 
 the jokes and settings.... anytime I get to fight a ninja in a tornado in a trailer park in Ohio.... well 
 you get the point. If you can find this game buy it and play through it you will not be disapointed 
 it really is one of those stand out games that leaves you wanting more..... This game will remain 
 one of my favorites for a long time to come lets hope the give us NOLF 3... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DevlinC
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 20, 2006 4:42 am PT
Review:  No One Lives Forever 2 did what I doubt anyone expected - improved on the original.
  
  The main problem in the previous title - that intel gathering had no effect on gameplay - has been 
 addressed, and now you'll pick up optional missions and add to your skill points instead of just 
 wasting time.
  
  One major problem this has is that the cutscenes are bizarrely put together. All of a sudden you'll 
 be in mid conversation with a bad guy, or the secondary characters will just all of a sudden be 
 talking about the main point. Whilst NOLF1's cutscenes dragged on too long, these ones are too 
 short, and you'd think it wouldn't be such a hard thing to balance.
  
  Also, Cate Archer's new voice isn't Scottish in the slightest, which was the whole point of Magnus 
 Armstrong not killing her in the last installment. She's significantly cuter and younger-looking 
 this time out, and I think the voice change was part of that but I'm sure they could have made 
 more of an effort with that.
  
  Otherwise, superb. Storyline is a lot darker, music is even better, gameplay is spot on and the 
 humour is present as always - where the hell is NOLF3?? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JOE714
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 15, 2006 1:09 pm PT
Review:  Although the original NOLF was a massive game that covered several dozen levels, I craved a return 
 to Cate Archers world more and more as time passed. I found myself reminiscing about overheard 
 snippets of humorous conversations shared by HARMs employees on the psychological drivers of criminality, 
 or about such stunning action sequences as Cates crash course in parachute appropriation or the 
 race to outrun Baroness Dumas belch bomb. The games appeal stemmed from both its technical impressiveness 
 and its depth of character; enemies and their villainous masters werent just well-animated moving 
 targets, and the means by which to dispatch them were many and varied. I was overjoyed, therefore, 
 to find that NOLF 2 built upon the originals interesting espionage archetypes and, especially, 
 the Lithtech engine to produce a sequel with even more downright likable flair.
  
  My favorite aspect of NOLF 2 lies in its designers further mastery of character movement and expressions, 
 as the first games awesome use of body language for comedic effect is enhanced tenfold in this 
 second outing. One of the best examples of Monoliths brilliant attention to even the finest details 
 in each characters gestures occurs when one of the Mime Kings minions tries to deliver a status 
 report without the use of words. The wide-eyed eagerness programmed into the henchmans face was 
 incredibly lifelike, prompting a measure of endearment that is mostly unheard of in a computer-generated 
 cartoon outside of a Pixar film. The conflict and misery that were threaded clearly into the features 
 of the beautiful Isako  one of Cates new nemeses only by the force of a life debt to HARMs barmy 
 honcho  came across like the finest of Oscar-worthy performances. Lieutenant Anders weary, hulking 
 tromp and rotting visage is by turns menacing and, given his backstory, absolutely heartbreaking. 
 I could go on and on, covering every single personage up to and including Armstrongs spit-take-inducing 
 doggy paddle toward the end of the game; NOLF 2s animation is just that great, transforming the 
 proceedings well beyond a shooting gallery into an interactive movie.
  
  And the kudos just keep on coming: NOLF 2s voice work is top-notch, its weapons and gadgets are 
 more clever than ever, and the addition of some RPG-style skill building made the obsessive search 
 for intel items that I carried over from the first installment all the more worthwhile. The Jupiter 
 engine accords some breathtakingly sharp, huge, and detailed environments  especially the undersea 
 lair and the island of Khios. Im still not a very dedicated fan of stealth sequences, and the 
 Night Flight levels were really tough even with practice, but the sheer anticipation of whatever 
 funny or fascinating shenanigans awaited around the next corner kept me going. Oh, and very big 
 ups to Monolith for their decision to whittle the original titles interminable expository scenes 
 down to just a few quick and effective exchanges.
  
  NOLF is yet another Monolith title  alongside the gruesome twosome of Blood and FEAR  of which 
 I would love to see much more in the future. Good comedy isnt easy to present within a genre that 
 is focused almost entirely on headshots and immolation, but the character-driven nuttiness into 
 which Cate Archer must delve for the sake of the free world works on every level. Just as I do 
 with the first game, I still strongly recommend A Spy in HARMs Way to anyone who can get their 
 hands on a copy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ranjan_united
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 14, 2006 1:56 pm PT
Review:  If there was ever a game which could be action-packed, funny, gripping and worth every cent of 
 your money, all at the same time, then No One Lives Forever 2 has to be that game. Expectations 
 were quite high after playing the original No One Lives Forever. By the time I finished the game, 
 it can be safely said that NOLF2 exceeded all my expectations. A top-notch game which you will 
 want to finish off in one sitting. The gamplay is extremely well done, as are the ususal sortie 
 of gadgets. The variety of weapons and ammonution and the large inventory range are very impressive, 
 especially the Utility Launcher. Combaing a variety of enemy goons, each one having individual 
 strenths and weknesses makes the game more chalenging. But what really stands out after finishing 
 the entire game, is the 'humor' factor. Sneak around and eavesdrop on some hilarious conversations; 
 the writers of the game's storyline have to be some of the best in the business to pull off, what 
 they have managed to. Overall, a game that is fun to play, highly enjoyable and full of action. 
 Two Thumbs Up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fibaglassmonkey
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 4, 2006 4:40 pm PT
Review:  I finished the first NOLF and immediately installed the second.
  The menus seem nicer but they are almost exactly the same as the previous game and the loading 
 screen hints seem to be useful, it even has the option to turn them off when they get repetitive. 
 The loading time was about the same, however quick-loading is no longer as quick.
  Visually, the sequel is far superior, i had only seen screen shots of Cate holding the SMG before 
 playing it, and didn't realise that the detail on the weapon was the same for each item. The cursor/cross-hair 
 has also changed, it is no longer the four bars that would move apart when you moved quickly, it 
 is now circular with much smaller bars and moving quickly only creates a slight blur. This doesn't 
 make it much harder to aim at all.
  The first level starts with the usual cutscene explaining the mission you will have to carry out, 
 i was quite pleased to find that the starting weapon was the crossbow (my favourite from NOLF) . 
 The new controls had me a bit phased but i had a 'Quick Reference Card' which proved useful, the 
 main change that i dislike is the zoom control, the previous game had the zoom feature on the scroll 
 wheel of the mouse (this is however now for weapon selection like most other first person shooters) , it 
 is now on 'Z' by default. It seemed like the developers tried to use as much of the keyboard as 
 possible for all of the various actions and activities (such as 'G' to lift and drop bodies) possibly 
 to prevent the game from being transferred to a games console.
  I feel that there is too much focus on the skill point feature, were the player earns points for 
 doing certain tasks (for example listening to a robotic parrot) , this makes the game seem to be 
 about enhancing your character and collecting everything, rather than saving the world from H. A. R. M.
 
  The new inventory items are as creative as the originals, with the camera-sunglasses now being 
 replaced for a much more imaginative lipstick camera, and it does of course still have the trusty 
 coin, that every player collects but finds that they never use them because it is much easier and 
 more entertaining to just run into a fight and eliminate enemies with the detailed weaponry.
  Like most sequels, if not all, there are new items and weapons: the first level introduces the 
 katana (a japanese sword) which can be collected from the body of a ninja, there is also the option 
 to search bodies (whether they are dead or just unconscious) for intelligence items or extra ammo, 
 and new inventory items such as the banana have been included to maintain the humour of this series, 
 enemies will slip on them while you make a getaway and use a new stealth feature; hiding in shadows.
 
  I haven't played it for long and these are only my first impressions but the pros outweigh the 
 cons. The improved visuals are most welcome and the controls issue can be overcome by simply playing 
 the game and becoming acquainted with them. I hope that this will be as good as the first, i'm 
 going to finish here and get back to learning the controls. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flakk3r
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 2, 2006 2:29 am PT
Review:  It's almost impossible to not like this beautiful and charming game
  
  Cate Archer working for the agency of Unity must once again protect the world from H. A. R. M and 
 their mysterious leader, The Director.
  
  For the second time you get to play as Cate Archer in the 60's spy craze and this time it's just 
 as good as the first time.
  With it's great humour and charm Nolf 2 takes you away on an amazing journey throughout beautiful 
 missions following a nice storyline.
  
  Every minute I play Im enjoying, think ive finished the game twice and still I could finish it 
 one more time just for all the funny comments and cool missions
  The details and graphics fits in perfectly within all these nice enviroments.
  
  It's sad that 
 Nolf have been forgotten by so many people, Nolf 2 brings so much fun online too
  
  No One Lives Forever 2 is a fantastic game and if you haven't tried it out, well do it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slayer_Sam
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 16, 2006 11:35 am PT
Review:  Noone Lives Forever 2 is the successor to the great yet underplayed Noone Lives Forever. In case 
 youve happened to miss our detailed preview you play as Cate Archer, one of the few female spies 
 in UNITY, a top secret organization that is dedicated to stopping terrorist and criminal activities 
 around the globe. In the first NOLF, UNITY combated and nearly eliminated the H. A. R. M. criminal 
 organization. By eliminating key members and foiling their plots, Cate Archer almost single handedly 
 gave HARM the deathblow. However, evil has a way of regaining itself and with H. A. R. M. s new leader 
 Cate Archer is once again A Spy in H. A. R. M. s Way.
  
  Imagine the very essence of a great game. Now imagine that essence poured over an awesome graphics 
 engine, add a large helping of plot, an equally large dose of humor, and a little something for 
 everyone. NOLF2 simply raises the bar for PC FPS, a bar that has long been held in place. Simply 
 put, this is definitely a must-have game of 2002.
  
  The games plot starts off simple enough with the investigation of strange criminal activities 
 in the Orient. Without giving too much away, the plot fits perfectly with the original NOLF and 
 those who had the luxury of playing it will be able to pick up on it very quickly. The plot is 
 almost novel-quality in itself, with just enough exciting bits and twists to keep you entertained 
 throughout the game but not going overboard. Along the way humor is sprinkled generously, which 
 all adds up to be a compelling, flowing, and ultimately entertaining plotline. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andilosha
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 1, 2006 6:14 am PT
Review:  GREAT! No one lives forever... It's true! This game is awesome, has the best environments an FPS 
 ever had, the characters are cool, both sides. The weapons are absolutely fantastic, the story 
 is great and the ending gives you the thought there will be another NOLF game soon, and if there 
 is going to be one, I'll definitly buy it! I really really think you will like A Spy in H. A. R. M's 
 way, and maybe more, you'll love it! Not much I can still say, if you like FPS and want a game 
 where you have to use your mind to get a mission completed, this is what you'd want! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bkwaters
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 8, 2006 12:23 pm PT
Review:  THIS GAME IS GREAT! NOT ONLY IS THE SHOOTING PART OF THE GAME GOOD, BUT SOME OF THE CONVOS BETWEEN 
 CHARACTERS ARE HILARIOUS. ALSO, IN THE 1ST NOLF, ALARMS ENDED THE MISSION, BUT NOW ALARMS ARE ALLOWED. 
 YOU CAN EVEN USE ALARMS TO YOUR ADVANTAGE. SOME OF THE GADGETS ARE HILARIOUS, LIKE A KITTY THAT 
 BLOWS UP WHEN ENEMIES CROWD AROUND IT, A CAMERA HIDDEN IN A LIPSTICK CONTAINER, AND A PUSRE THAT 
 BECOMES A ROCKET LAUNCHER! OVERALL, A GREAT GAME. I GIVE IT A 10/10! IF YOU HAVEN'T PLAYED THIS 
 GAME... DO. BESIDES, IT IS PROBABLY VERY CHEAP BY NOW, BUT EVEN WHEN IT WAS $50 IT WAS WORTH IT. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jay_Slay
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 28, 2006 1:57 pm PT
Review:  Possitive side...
  The gameplay is just revolutionary... u can touch it all
  Graphics are perfect with out question
  sounds great but sometimes u cant hear what theyre saying 
 cos of the soundtrack.
  It has gr8 replay velue cos u simply cant get enugh of it...
  
  In simple terms... its a must have if u like FPS.... like me
  
  Negative side...
  On the short 
 side... there are just too many things to do in every mission
  and it can get frustrating if ure not a patient dude.
  And also... some AI quirks... they get really 
 confused if u make them chase you hehe
  Other than that the game is just one big huge masterpiece 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SaltyMcSushi
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 13, 2006 5:10 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: 17/20 Excellent
  NOLF2 is 3 years old and its graphics are better than those of some games coming out today. There 
 are some parts of the game where certain, mostly unimportant, things look generic and some textures 
 look too fuzzy. Nevertheless, most of the things that you will actually pay attention to look great 
 and sharp. Weapons and enviorments are very well detailed. Effects look great as well. Cutscenes 
 and the detail given to characters are outstanding. Characters' facial expressions and mouth movements 
 are very well done. NPC movements look smooth and natural. Overall, graphics in NOLF2 are very 
 good.
  
  Gameplay: 19/20 Outstanding
  NOLF2 is an FPS that is heavily influenced by RPG elements. You have a skill system that affects 
 everything you do, whether it be stealth, stanima, or accuracy. You gain points to be added to 
 your skills through completion of primary objectives, secondary objectives, and obtaining intelligence. 
 Primary objectives are pretty simple- they are your main objective for wherever you are. They must 
 be completed to complete the mission, so you always get the skill points. Secondary objectives 
 are optional, give less skill points than and are harder to complete than primary objectives, and 
 are shorter. Intelligence is really just finding any written documentation. So, you'd get skill 
 points for finding a note telling a chef not to cook cabbage anymore because the latrines are getting 
 really smelly but you'd also get skill points for finding a note telling you where to plant a bomb. 
 The amount of points awarded vary. This whole system is very unique and fresh, and both the RPG 
 and FPS elements go together very smoothly. You play as a 60's-era spy Kate Archer, very similar 
 to Austin powers (The game after all was partly made by Fox) but she is a girl. That means there's 
 all the cool gadgets and odd weapons as well as humor. A lot of humor. The intelligence papers 
 usually get at least a chuckle out of you. Nearly all cutscenes are enjoyable, well-done, and humorous. 
 There are crazy weapons and gagets like your mascara that turns into a stun prod, lipstick that 
 turns into a spy camera, and even a banana. There are equally crazy enemies, such as cube-men and 
 mimes. Playing the game, in general, is very enjoyable.
  
  Playability: 17/20 Excellent 
  Once you play through NOLF2 the first time, you don't unlock anything besides level select. There 
 is multiplayer, but NOLF2 just doesn't feel like a game that should be played on multiplayer- the 
 game's major strong points lie in the single-player. So, playing NOLF2 the second time is just 
 like the first time. But I bet you will play it again. And maybe a few more times. Why? Because 
 it's a damn good game. You'll probably find things you didn't find the first time around- hell, 
 there are hundreds halarious intelligence papers- and there aren't enough skill points in the game 
 to max out everything, so you can try new things there. The game is pretty long, so you'll probably 
 forget some things you did the first time through and it'll still feel great. The game's humor 
 doesn't get old fast, either. NOLF2 gives a great play expirence and some good laughs, neither 
 of which get old.
  
  Tilt: 18/20 Excellent
  NOLF2 has things that most other FPS games don't. As mentioned before, it has an RPG system that 
 is integrated fully and smoothly. It has lots of good humor. It has a great storyline that is intruiging 
 and easy to follow, unlike some games (I'm looking at you, Doom 3) . It is obvious that the creators 
 of NOLF2 thought outside the box, and they succeeded. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jiao
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 25, 2006 7:36 am PT
Review:  
  Cate Archer is back, and shes looking good. The lithe sixties Superspy must once again take up 
 arms  and whatever else comes to hand  against the evil organization known as H. A. R. M. in this 
 spectacular sequel to Y2Ks The Operative. H. A. R. M. is under new management; their mysterious Director 
 is bent on world domination (or annihilation, if plan a doesnt work out) and he intends to make 
 Cate the first casualty of war.
  
  Unexpected allies. Bizarre, dysfunctional villains. Elaborate traps and amusing torture devices. 
 All the elements that made the original NOLF so exhilarating are here in full force, along with 
 some fresh twists and an expanded cast of characters. The banters as sharp as ever, and virtually 
 every scene is imbued with wicked humour.
  
  The abundant visual comedy is greatly enhanced by Monoliths use of the LithTech Jupiter engine, 
 which renders facial expressions in amazingly subtle detail. One audacious cut-scene in which a 
 nervous actor delivers a wooden walk-on performance is outrageously funny. Those fine facial animations 
 are used to great effect during combat, too; when any of Cates innumerable enemies meet their 
 demise, they actually look dead, rather than just inert. Water shimmers, shadows flicker, and the 
 diverse environments come alive in vivid and gorgeous detail. The episodes staged in Japan are 
 particularly beautiful to behold.
  
  Whilst the gameplay consists of essentially the same winning blend of first-person sneaking and 
 shooting, several elements of the original NOLF have been overhauled. Gone are the pre-mission 
 training levels, those visits to Santas Workshop and often lengthy debriefing sessions. They have 
 been replaced by strategically placed notes, in-game dialogue and optional handy tips presented 
 on the loading screen. This is a sleeker, more efficient NOLF, and those with an itchy trigger-finger 
 will appreciate the evolution.
  
  The plot exposition and character development that were such an enjoyable factor of the original 
 NOLF may have lost something in the transition, but the player can now choose to develop specific 
 areas of spying expertise. Every item of intelligence gathered now earns Cate skill points, which 
 can be spent on fine-honing her talents for sneaking, searching and the like, or her mastery of 
 various weapons and gadgets.
  
  Cates arms collection is as outlandish as ever, with weapons including a super-slick Utility Launcher 
 (which can dupe security cameras, trap, track or tranquilize foes and even fry the circuits of 
 hostile robots) , the Angry Kitty Proximity Mine and the humble banana (yup, the girls packing 
 fruit) .
  
  The multiplayer game is a lively adaptation of the single-player experience, with up to four online 
 Operatives working on a collaborative mission against H. A. R. M. s very competent A. I. lackeys. Live 
 opposition in the form of deathmatch and team rivalry can also be obtained by free download from 
 the Sierra site 
  
  All told, NOLF2 is an exciting, challenging and profoundly likeable game. Violent but whimsical 
 and full of jovial mischief, bullet-based action has never been so groovy.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SadExchange
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 23, 2006 4:25 pm PT
Review:  Coming out on September 20th of 2002, No One Lives Forever 2 (NOLF2) adds to the great success 
 that Monolith had with the previous installment. Again, taking control of Cate Archer, players 
 would use all sorts of different spy gadgets and weaponry to progress through missions around the 
 globe to once again save the world from the terrible organization of H. A. R. M. With a lengthy single-player 
 campaign and a unique co-op mode for players and their friends to play through, Monoliths sequel 
 really shines with A Spy in H. A. R. M. s Way.
  
  The story picks up where the original left off and you once again play as Cate Archer, an agent 
 of UNITY during the 1960s. The environment, music, and fashion design make you feel like you just 
 walked into an Austin Powers, but this is what makes the game so unique and different from your 
 regular first person shooter. The storyline follows across around forty levels spaced over fourteen 
 chapters and in between most missions, youll be presented with a decent length cutscene explaining 
 the story almost to the point of blatancy so the player wont have any questions whatsoever and 
 nothing will be left out of the picture to question later. Youll be going through the regular 
 exotic locations such as India, Antarctica, and also some of the most non-frequented areas for 
 first person shooters such as the state of Ohio. Throughout the story, youll try to uncover what 
 the H. A. R. M. agency is up to with Omega Project, a secret research project surrounding the creation 
 of super soldiers that at first have no weakness, but towards the end and deeper into the story, 
 youll soon be able to create a cure to bring down even the toughest of these super soldiers.
 
  
  Instead of just using a run and gun playing style as is typical for most first person shooters, 
 NOLF2 gives you a few different options when deciding to go through the levels throughout the game. 
 Youre able to go around blasting everyone you see if you like, or take your time and use a stealth 
 approach to each mission where you can use a gun to tag opponents to keep track of their movements 
 on your HUD map on the main screen. These tags can be very helpful when needing to know where 
 your enemies are in specific instances such as raiding the drawers and closets of a private office 
 for some secret documents with the lights off while a H. A. R. M. is pacing back and forth outside. 
 Time and patience are the key to utilizing the stealth aspect of the game. And on the off chance 
 that youre ever caught running in the alleyways and you dont want to kill anyone, youre able 
 to slip them up with a banana peel or shoot some sticky goo out of a gun to slow their tracks. 
 There are a great amount of different spy gadgets and weapons to put to use throughout the games 
 lengthy campaign. It would almost be a waste if you were to only use one certain gun throughout 
 the entire game because of how much time Monolith spent creating and balancing all these different 
 types of weapons. Your amount of fun gameplay will definitely depend on how much you want to put 
 into the different levels and playing styles of this game. Youre able to wield everything from 
 a katana blade to a collapsible rocket launcher. 
  
  The graphics in the game look pretty good for 2002, using Lilitech next-generation Jupiter engine. 
 Its not as good as Unreal Tournament 2003 which came out soon after, but the engine supports a 
 decent draw distance where youre not surrounded by a fog of war just outside of the screen viewing 
 distance. There are multiple options to change under the graphics menu which will in turn make 
 the game look better in all aspects. All the different characters including Cate, her friend Magnus 
 Armstrong, among a host of others do look good with both their character model and their uniqueness, 
 but throughout each level, you will be killing a lot of the same modeled enemy over and over. While 
 the change in scenery will also change your enemies texture polygons, with Indias H. A. R. M. agents 
 looking different than Ohios H. A. R. M. agents, but you might be looking for a little more variety 
 in each level as you blast through enemy after enemy.
  
  The sound and music in the game are superb with the voice acting really adding a lot to the gameplay. 
 Although a different person plays the part of Cate Archer for this sequel, she still does a great 
 job with giving the character life in voice. The music, along with the 60s vibe thats presented 
 throughout the game is once again made by Ray Conniff who provides an Austin Powers type experience 
 from the introduction cinematic to the end game credits. One nice thing about the dialogue in the 
 game that adds quite a bit of fun to the gameplay is the jokes that are made in the between level 
 cutscenes.
  
  Because the developers wanted to create an awesome single-player experience, which they did, not 
 much time was focused on the multiplayer component which was almost a given with first person shooters 
 of the time. Instead of a full feature multiplayer deathmatch mode, the developers decided to include 
 a four chapter co-op mode where you and friend can play through events surrounding the single-player 
 campaign where you must progress through different objectives and goals to complete each chapter. 
 A nice feature to this component is the fact that youre able to stop and save with your friend 
 at any time and good back to it later and on a different date. Although this may not be the great 
 multiplayer component that first person shooter fans have come to expect from developers these 
 days, the great single-player campaign and the co-op mode should suffice those who have any worries 
 or doubts about the replay value of the game. 
  
  In the end, NOLF2 is a very successful sequel to a great game that adds so much more from the original. 
 With a reworked stealth component that will rival games such as the Thief series, and the multiple 
 spy type gadgets that you can use throughout each level in different situations, NOLF2 can provide 
 any first person shooter fan for a lot of unique gameplay hours.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ranzou
Rating: 7.4
Date: Apr 30, 2006 2:43 pm PT
Review:  No One Lives Forever (NOLF) was a fantastic game. Not only was it a superb story and shoot-em up, 
 it also brought ingenuity and humor to the table.
  
  Unfortunately, NOLF 2 falls a hair short of recreating the 1st. Granted the basics are there, it 
 just does'nt leap out and grab you like the first did (which is why is probably won Game of the 
 Year) .
  
  While NOLF 2 does offer a compelling story about bad guys edging the Cold War on, it also offers 
 a unique multiplayer experience that goes hand in hand with the main storyline. In the Multiplayer 
 co-op game, you provide some back-up support to the main game, thus filling in a few gaps that 
 you did'nt know existed.
  
  If you have played NOLF, then you really need to play NOLF 2. Followed by Contract J. A. C. K..
 
  
  Enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: razorblade3191
Rating: 6.8
Date: Apr 10, 2006 4:59 pm PT
Review:  I just completed No One Lives Forever 2: A Spy in H. A. R. M.'s Way, and there are a few things that 
 I think need to be pointed out. While this game is good overall - having come from PC powerhouse 
 Sierra - it does have a few 'qualities' that I felt needed some more attention. 
  
  Without a doubt, I got every dime's worth out of this game; then again, I might be more lucky than 
 most. I found this game in the bargain bin of a toy store in South Carolina a year ago; seeing 
 as how this game had been out for a while, its no surprise that this game only cost me ten dollars. 
 It kept me busy for a good 20 hours, which is a litle above average for your average FPS. 
  
  First, the good things about this game; for a game of its time (2002?) , the graphics are pretty 
 impressive. Like any game, you can notice graphical shortcomings, but in this case you tend not 
 to care. I have a laptop I got a few weeks ago with decent hardware (128MB ATI Radeon Xpress 200M 
 graphics, 1GB ram, Turion 2.2GHz processor) , and it played flawlessly. I imagine that those who 
 play PC FPSs more often than myself have PCs with even better hardware. At any rate, the visuals 
 are very good, running off of LithTech's Jupiter engine, and for those of you with hardware that 
 isn't as good, relax; the requirements for this game are not very high at all. 
  
  I notice that this game, in terms of motif, genre, presentation style etc. reminded me of James 
 Bond 007: Nightfire. I really enjoyed that game as well, and you will find that this game is similar 
 in the way it plays and feels. However, there are some elements that I found Nightfire to be more 
 enjoyable in, and some general shortcomings of NOLF2. 
  
  The first - while we are on graphics - is sound. While the voice acting and music DO fit the game 
 well for its style, I felt like I was hearing the same three tunes over and over again. That annoyed 
 me after a while.
  
  The second - and biggest - was the gameplay. I will have to elaborate in order to prevent confusion 
 - the way the game centers around Cate Archer (our protaganist, the 'Spy in H. A. R. M.'s Way') is 
 fine, in terms of how she aims and how the controls work and so on. It's just that I was in a constant 
 state of confusion. It occurred to me that the designers were going for the 'open-ended' approach 
 that has become popular (and cliched) in modern gaming, and in a game like this, it doesn't work. 
 The games that are supposed to be open-ended are RPGs and GTA (which people need to stop trying 
 to copy) , but not stealth-shooter-spy games. Nightfire worked very well (or, at least superior 
 to NOLF2 in this respect) because it was able to incorporate primary and secondary objectives in 
 a linear fashion. Also, all of the locales in Nightfire were somewhat simple and easy to understand, 
 but to me it felt like NOLF2 was trying to give you a 4-dimensional map and then throw varying 
 objectives at you. What Nightfire did didn't oversimply it because it was still very fun and an 
 appropriate challenge in the right places. One of the reasons I thought it was more fun that NOLF2 
 was that I never had to consult a guide or look at a map. Unfortunately, I think one way NOLF2 
 bought itself an extra 4 hours of gameplay was not making the boards easy to navigate and therefore 
 not making the missions easy enough to complete. 
  
  As a shooter, this game is about average. Sometimes the gunfights are fun, but sometimes you feel 
 like you're shooting the same four guys with the same 30 bullets over and over again. It just depends. 
 
  
  Also, the weapons were cool and functional in and of themselves, but the way NOLF2 incorporated 
 the weapons INTO the game was wrong. There were about 10-15 weapons to see in single-player, from 
 a pistol to automatics to a sniper rifle and swords. But my question - why have only one pistol 
 but two swords and several machine guns? Also, why give us a really cool rocket launcher twice 
 in the whole game (and no places to use it well) ? Or, for that matter, a sniper rifle and rare 
 opportunities to use it in its intended context? Another perplexing thing is that maximum ammo 
 capacities are really screwed up. Why let us carry 12 AK-47 clips and only 4 handgun clips? Compare 
 7.62X39 and .32 for size and you'll be confused along with me. 
  
  But, along those same lines, there ARE clever little things the designers did. The first is that 
 there are 8 skills you can upgrade throughout the game, enabling you to be stealthier, carry more 
 ammo, use gadgets better, etc. I will give it points over Nightfire for that creative and smart 
 design point. Also, one cool thing is that there are multiple types of ammo that you can switch 
 out, and they give you an appropriate ratio of special to regular FMJ (full metal jacket, for those 
 who are uneducated in arms use) . The ammunition has intended effects, and some of it is special 
 because it disables cameras, tracks targets, or is coated with cyanide or phosphorus. The effects 
 visually and on the actual target are rather fun. 
  
  For story and writing, this game is pretty good. The story is not groundbreaking or dramatic, but 
 it works. It centers around two conflicting acronyms - he-hem, sorry, associations - who are trying 
 to, essentially, stop each other. UNITY, whom the spy Cate Archer works for, wants to stop H. A. R. M. 
 from carrying out their plan to eventually rule the world. This game is set in the '60s ('66 I 
 think) , and all of the motifs points toward the style and culture of this time. Also, this game 
 is supposed to be strong due to its use of humor - it is humorous, but not gut-busting. If you 
 want to see a humorous piece set in the '60s, watch Austin Powers. The writing is good even if 
 the story is average, since I can't remember one awkward line. Anything cartoony or clearly overemphasized 
 is clearly supposed to be. In a perfect world, we would hire Cate Archer to kill the writing staff 
 of Resident Evil 4 (very slowly) . 
  
  In general, you CAN give NOLF2 credit for being witty, stylish, and somewhat attractive visually. 
 You can also give it credit for working well in terms of control and ease of learning (it's a classic 
 Point and Shoot 101 with a few more difficult elements.) Also, the difficulties are appropriate; 
 what makes the game difficult is not how powerful the enemies are (harder settings make the enemies 
 appropriately challenging) , but how the game is laid out. Unfortunately, the way the world works 
 around Cate Archer just isn't easy to understand, and until you've played this game for a very 
 long time, you'll be lost. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GazzaB
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 24, 2006 6:51 pm PT
Review:  No One Lives Forever 2 is one of the best shooters I've ever played and that's saying something.
 
  It's a little like a James Bond style of game but with more action. It has a very good storyline 
 that really takes you into the game's world, with some really cool gadgets.
  The things that make it more Bondy then others is that you can sneak up to people and use the objects 
 around you to help and create distractions. The enemies are really smart, for example if you run 
 into a chime it rattles and they become alerted. The gadgets are cool too, you can get welders 
 disguised as hair spray bottles, a bazooka disguised as a briefcase and heaps more. Its not all 
 sneaky stuff though when alarms go off it time to bring in the heavy gear with guns like AK-47s, 
 SMGs, shotguns and snipers. The graphics are good too with great sound affects and cool sight seeing. 
 One thing that could be improved though is the difficulty, its very hard for people who play the 
 first time and should be made a little easier for new comers. But over all it's a great game
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dasilva90
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 21, 2006 9:11 am PT
Review:  
  Presentation
  Comes in your standard DVD case with a detailed manual and 2 CDROM discs. The game menus are easy 
 and effective.
  
  Story & Dialogs
  The original 60's Austin Powers style story is just amazing, funky fresh and new. Dialogs will 
 make you giggle, every aspect of the story is new and fresh.
  
  Puzzle Design
  Some nifty puzzles in the game involving you finding a way into a place using your gadgets, great 
 fun and very new.
  
  Graphics
  Amazing work from Monolith, using their next gen engine (for the time) its really supurb, all the 
 textures are crisp, and the models are sleek and fluid. A* material.
  
  Sound
  The music is inspired by the 60s, and every track is just fantastic, you'll want to listen to the 
 great tracks over and over. You'll never get sick of the unique tunes.
  
  Gameplay
  The fights in this game is amazing, new and fresh. You really feel like your in this world fighting 
 this amazing AI. All levels are very different although continue the same dark theme.
  
  Lasting Appeal
  You can replay this game over and over and still have a great time, you're bound 
 to find many of the 'side quests' and different sub missions available, and approaching every situation 
 differently. 
  
  Last Word
  A great series in the FPS genre, truly a classic.
  
  9.0/10 - Superb 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abima
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 3, 2006 11:22 am PT
Review:  This is the funniest game I have ever played. Putting out enemies by making them slip on a banana 
 peel! A tricycle chase. Who would've thought? The story is great, always leaving you mistaken when 
 you try to imagine what will happen next. Great weapons, settings, and gameplay, especially liked 
 the crossbow. Everything taking the Bondian theme to the maximum satirical effect. Alright, the 
 character stereotyping might cause the more sensitive some slight anguish. But when they start 
 trying to eradicate you, you can forget about how dumb the characters seem when they talk. In short, 
 I wish they would make a third one, but that's probably never happen. Sad, that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ArthurYanthar2
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 21, 2006 11:20 am PT
Review:  The good: 15 missions. Lots of detail in the game. Alarming, and you can trigger it yourself. Experience 
 points for skills. Cool weapons.
  
  The bad: I wanted more levels. Better A. I.
  
  Part 1 of Nolf was an amazing game. So is this one. There are many features in this game included. 
 One of the cool things is this robotic bird that is actually your boss, in the radio. He gives 
 you quite some assistance, and way more. There is also gifts, coins, and notes that you most take. 
 When you take these items, you get experience. Also, you must decode some notes, and do the puzzles 
 that the notes tell you to. Also, you can use a crossbow, and when you hit someone who is near 
 a wall, they get stuck on the wall, and will stay there until you take the arrow.
  
  I'm too tired to write all of the features, but what I will tell you is that this is one of the 
 best games ever. Get it right now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Buick87GNXv6
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 20, 2006 4:38 pm PT
Review:  The graphics are gorgeous, highly detailed but not hyper-realistic or presumptuous - enemies, locals, 
 cutscenes, all look incredible, but also look intentionally like a PC game, not like an illusion 
 of real life. 
  The audio is out of this world, if you played NOLF 1, then you may be able to appreciate the beauty 
 of the sound engineering here, but make no mistake NOLF2 audio is even more well presented then 
 its predecessor. Do you like the voice-overs for KOTOR? How about Freedom Force? Call of Duty? 
 NOLF2's voice acting is superior to any of those titles (though they all come close) . Humor, wit, 
 sarcasm, it's all there in abundance.
  While the production values of the game are top notch, the story, gameplay, and overall depth of 
 the action are the real factors which set this game apart from others. It's just simply a hoot 
 to play. Tactics, stealth, gadgets, sniping, a full-on bomb rush with an AK-47 firing phosphorous 
 shells - each approach is a blast to experience. Enemy AI is about as good as it can get - enemies 
 will notice lights turned off, doors open, foot prints, etc. and will investigate, will respond 
 to wounded allies, etc. There can be a few improvements here but for the time NOLF2 was released 
 its AI was the best, for sure. 
  The plot and story line are simply terrific, as well. Just trust me. Buy this game, and then post 
 a rave review as well.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrDoom007
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 6, 2006 10:50 pm PT
Review:  "No one Lives Forever 2: A spy in H. A. R. M's way" might be a 4 year old game, but still feels like 
 a fresh game in terms of gameplay, graphics and story.
  
  How was this achieved?, there's no simple answer to this question, after all, this game has elements 
 from stealth games such as Metal Gear Solid or Splinter Cell, solid combat engine such as Half 
 Life, unique character design and humor.
  
  Let's talk about gameplay, in No one lives forever 2 (or simply NOLF2) you assume the role of Cate 
 Archer, a special agent from UNITY, which is in a mission of stopping the mean criminal organization 
 known as H. A. R. M.
  
  As you can imagine, being a spy game there should be some stealth mechanics involved, and you would 
 be right, in many missions (if not all) you have to sneak into many locations in order to accomplish 
 your objectives, many times you have to make sure that no enemy notices your presence or make too 
 much noise.
  The AI in the game is very sharp, the enemies react greatly to any change of the environment, as 
 they notice your footprints, footsteps and sounds of your guns or distractions; the enemy will 
 also react when they see a fallen friend, most of the time they switch to a alert status and they 
 will be more aware to any sound that you would make.
  
  Obviously the stealth is not everything on this game, after all, a FPS is nothing without any combat, 
 and this game has many of it, most of the time on boss fights or when you have to escape of a given 
 location you get to experience combat on the fullest (of course you can engage combat during an 
 infiltration or any other mission) , the firefights are really intense, and your enemies will not 
 leave their guns ready to be taken, you have to search them throughly in order to get their equipment, 
 this is useful when you are in stealth mode, but can be difficult to do when you are in the middle 
 of a firefight (not necessarily a bad thing tough) .
  
  Cate can count on a very wide arsenal, which includes swords, handguns, machine-guns, etc, and 
 as you might guess, your arsenal is different according the mission, in some missions you've got 
 swords, cameras, bow guns and in another mission you've got a machine-gun and loads of explosives 
 for your task.
  
  This game also features a RPG like element, you will get some ability points by completing your 
 mission objectives or gathering information by reading any given memo, searching in enemy corpses 
 or by listening to enemy conversations. This ability points can be used to make your character 
 more silent, carry more ammo or to improve many other abilities of your characters, giving the 
 game some replay value.
  
  In terms of graphics, this game still looks amazing, the modelling of the world is great, you can 
 see even the smaller details of the background, even the animation of the characters are really 
 good, the only thing that is not that great about the animation is the swimming portion, but you 
 don't get to see it too much tough.
  
  Sound department made a terrific job on this game, the voice acting fits well with the characters, 
 this make the jokes in the game sound great (and terribly funny) , your ears will be pleased with 
 the music on this game.
  
  This game has some multiplayer options, the classical Deathmatch and Team deathmatch, some co-op 
 missions and a mode named "Doomsday", where you and your team must build a nuclear device in order 
 to decimate your opponents, the parts of the nuke will vary and in some cases, carrying a part 
 of the bomb will leave you defenseless.
  There's not much to say about the multiplayer component, mainly the only portion of the multiplayer 
 component who might catch your eye might be the co-op missions, who are placed during the events 
 of the game and might shed a light on what happened in the mid chapters on the game.
  
  Replay value can vary, according on how much did you like the multiplayer component or how many 
 ways you want to upgrade your character. The game can keep you busy for a while.
  
  Overall, No One Lives Forever 2: A spy in H. A. R. M's way, is an amazing game that can entertain 
 you, either on the unique gameplay that this game offers, the solid combat and stealth mechanics 
 or simply the simple humour found in the game. You can find that this game really worths your time. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -hallo-
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 23, 2006 2:36 pm PT
Review:  NOTE: I wasn't able to lay my hands on NOLF 2 until December 2005, but you can be sure that in 
 this review I have based my opinion by standards applied in the year 2002.
  - - -
  The first game in the No One Lives Forever series was one of my most favorite games of all time; 
 it was hilarious, diverse and ground-barking for its time.
  When I got my copy of No One Lives Forever 2 my expectations were very high, too high as it turns 
 out.
  While the game does manage to keep the charm and fun of the first game, it's also turns-out as 
 very disappointing.
  
  The first thing that catches your eyes when you put your hands on the game's box is that something 
 about Cate is different; it's obvious that she looks different, but did her personality change 
 as-well?
  When you're half-way through the game you realize the answer to that question; Cate went through 
 a series of cosmetic changes, but she stayed true to her nature  she is still the same person.
 
  The same thing can also be said about the game itself; it manages to keep the charm and fun of 
 the first game, but it looks a lot better.
  So far so good, and while I didn't mind to play a game very similar to its predecessor, the guys 
 at Monolith wanted to do something a little bit different, so they've added a few new things, things 
 like a skill system that helps you improve yourself as a spy, or a brand new hiding element. Those 
 new elements could have been nice, but I find them very superficial and unnecessary.
  The hiding element: When the room you're standing in is dark, and the bad-guy is outside, minding 
 is own business, it's okay if he wouldn't see you. But when he just chased you, and when he sees 
 to which room you went, why can you hide? Is he THAT stupid?!
  The skill system: Cate isn't supposed to be one of the most appreciated UNITY agents? If so, why 
 does she start with almost no skills at the rate of Novice ?
  Besides that, in-order to get the necessary skill points you will find yourself searching every 
 level from beginning to an end, opening every drawer and closet. The skill system turns the game 
 from fast and full of action to a slow, pointless chase for H. A. R. M. letters.
  One might say that this chase for H. A. R. M. letters as I called it actually helps you to understand 
 the plot  although that is true I believe that the plot should be reviled throughout the game 
 (e. g. Half-Life 2, F. E. A. R.) , not by pieces of text that you may or may-not read while the game 
 is paused. While we're at it, I should point out that the plot in the original No One Lives Forever 
 is much better then the plot in NOLF2. NOLF2 isn't as funny as its predecessor and you won't experience 
 any twists and unexpected events. Actually, the plot is kind-of boring.
  Sticking to the gameplay, there are few more annoying things in this game:
  - Some levels contain 
 re-spawning enemies; it's frustrating and totally unnecessary, those re-spawning enemies can ruin 
 some of the game's best levels.
  - the game is quite short, especially when compared the original NOLF.
  - The submarine level 
 in NOLF2 can't top the submarine level in the first NOLF (hey Monolith: if you can't beat it, don't 
 try!) .
  
  But it's not all bad, NOLF2 is a great game that could have been a lot better if Monolith could 
 put just a little more work into it.
  - The game is funny and you will smile through all of it (do you believe these are the guys who 
 made F. E. A. R.?) .
  - The sound acting is fabulous and the cut-scenes are terrific.
  - The characters are awesome; you will like each and every one of them.
  - The graphics are just 
 spectacular, even for these days.
  - If you like cyber-chicks you will love Isako and Cate (hey, I'm just saying) . In the bottom line, 
 NOLF2 is a very good game and a worthy sequel for the first NOLF; it's too bad that minor things 
 kept him from being superb. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nolgrin45
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 26, 2005 4:02 am PT
Review:  Well what can i say it is an amazing game! It has depth, and the graphics are superb. I absolutely 
 love the enemies A. I. You walk into a room and you can here the A. I having a chat about a real 
 life problem and some of the conversations are hilarious!
  If you have never played this game you are missing out because even if your not into a shoot em 
 up you will love the depth and graphics the developers have put in to it!
  The game also includes a wide variety of weapons to satisfy even the hardcore shoot em up fans 
 and any James bond fans will love the range of gadgets that the game has. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chimpool999
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 22, 2005 8:32 am PT
Review:  I will start by saying that this was the best, and quote me on this "the best FPS I have ever played 
 and will ever play! the graphics are sooooo dam real i thought i was in the game (thats Good!!!) 
 I was bolwn away by the sounds in the game. Plus they lip synced every person in the game (so if 
 they talk there mouth moves to the words there are saying.) It also had a story line soooo deep 
 i have beet the game 6 times and never get tired of it. This is probibly as good a game as Starcraft (1997) 
 when it came out. Worth the money, and please make a NOLF3 soon! Simply an awsome game, a 5 out 
 of 5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Katarn_123
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 21, 2005 11:06 pm PT
Review:  When I saw this game and read reviews, I thought, wow. This game looks like the ultimate game. 
 With so much potential. And although it was a great game, it fell short of my expectations.
  
  What really attracted me was how the game was based in the 1960's, with that kinda humour. 
 And the fact that you play as super sexy secret agent Cate Archer, and I was hopping for a game 
 with great characters, great storyline, and a very long gameplay time as we have seen in Deus Ex. 
 
  
  The humour in this game is very good, my favourite jokes are the "Invading Monkeys" in India. Another 
 memorable moment was when you are being chased by unfit Police Officers in India and stopping them 
 with a banana or a glue bomb. 
  
  The cut scenes are great, but the problem is, there is no where near enough of them!!!!
  
  
 The voice acting is probably the best part, with the sexy voice of Cate Archer, and the sterotypical 
 acting of Armstrong. But again, there isnt enough of it!!!
  
  Gameplay: 8/10. For what you get, its very good, although the first few levels are a bit sluggish 
 and boring, once you past these levels, its pretty fun. My favourite level would be Chapter Six, 
 when you are in a Caravan Park and have to fight off ninja's in the way of a tornado! The weapons 
 and gadgets are very good, but you won't find yourself using many of the special weapons that much 
 such as the humouros Laughing grenade or Angry Kitten. Probably my favourite weapon would be the 
 Combat Shotgun.
  
  Graphics: 10/10. If this game had come out this year, i'd give the graphics 8/10. That tells you 
 how good they are. For a 2002 game, these graphics are fantastic! From the sexy body of Cate Archer 
 to the Snowy mountains of Siberia to the underwater sea level, these Graphics are great!
  
  Sound: 10/10. Wow. The soundtrack for this game is out this world! Easily the best for any computer 
 game! I love the groovy tunes. As I said earlier the voice acting is great, but we don't get enough 
 of it!
  
  Value: 7/10. For me, its a very short game, which disapointed me greatly. When it lasts, its fantastic. 
 And once you've finished the game you can access all the different chapters and play them as you 
 wish. Not bad!
  
  Reviewers tilt: 7/10. Despite all this, i'm a bit disapointed, but then again thats a bit unfair. 
 While it lasts its great, and the voice acting and cut scenes are great. For what you get, its 
 very good. 
  
  All in all, I reccomend this game, just dont set your hopes too high.
  
  Nick. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LtTora
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 7, 2005 8:08 pm PT
Review:  There were some added features that could have made the first game perfect. The ability to pick 
 up and hide bodies, being able to search the dead for anything useful. A stun gun, a tranquilizer 
 gun, smokes grenades, sleeping gas grenades, etc. 
  
  However, those are the only good things about this game. In the first game there were only so many 
 bad guys in a level and once you killed them all you could run around freely without fear. In the 
 second game the enemies regenerate every few minutes making stealth an outright pain. 
  
  And speaking of stealth, stealth is a real joke in this game; unlike its predecessor stealth was 
 actually possible but not required. In A spy in harms way stealth is all but impossible.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jrclem
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 2, 2005 12:34 pm PT
Review:  It's a rare game that will make you laugh out loud while playing it, and No One Lives Forever 2: 
 A Spy in H. A. R. M.'s Way is such a game. The sequel to 2000's excellent The Operative: No One Lives 
 Forever, NOLF2 is an improvement over its predecessor in nearly every way.
  
  You play as covert agent Cate Archer, a member of the clandestine organization U. N. I. T. Y., whose 
 mission is to save the world from certain doom at the hands of the megalomaniacal H. A. R. M.. This 
 consortium of villains is bent on killing Cate after she foiled their plans for world domination 
 in the first game. The enemies in the game are over-the-top caricatures of Bond-film bad guys and 
 include a female ninja assassin, her effeminate evil-genius boss (who has mother issues) , an ex-KGB 
 hitman in a wheelchair, and a French crime boss who commands a horde of mimes.
  
  Your adventure begins in Tokyo where Cate is attempting to infiltrate a ninja dojo to drop some 
 eaves on a meeting between the H. A. R. M. higher-ups. From there you will travel to exotic locations 
 like the frozen wastelands of Siberia, beautiful Akron, Ohio, the streets of Calcutta, a remote 
 research station in Antarctica, an underwater fortress, and more. 
  
  The first chapter in Japan is a very well-made series of levels that introduces you to the importance 
 of stealth and the use of silent weapons. The next chapter takes place in Russia, where Cate battles 
 the Soviet military as you try to uncover information about the shadowy Project: Omega. Although 
 these Russian levels are fun and challenging, this section is really the low point of the game, 
 with lots of gun battles taking up most of your time. 
  
  After Russia, NOLF2 really begins to shine. The sneaking objectives in Calcutta and the sword fights 
 with female ninjas in Akron (during a tornado!) are some of the funnest levels in a first person 
 shooter to date. Monolith even included a brilliant level that recreates the setting and creepy 
 mood of John Carpenter's 1982 sci-fi classic "The Thing." And if you don't enjoy a chase scene 
 involving a unicycle-riding French mime, and Cate on the back of a tricycle driven by her Scottish 
 co-spy, there's just something wrong with you.
  
  The depth of the gameplay in NOLF2 is above and beyond most games of the genre. Cate will have 
 to sneak past guards, unscrew lightbulbs, search through desk drawers for secret documents, and 
 much more. In fact, the game is often better compared to a Metal Gear Solid type game rather than 
 any other first person shooter. Also, some RPG-inspired elements will allow you to increase Cate's 
 proficiency in different skills (aiming, lockpicking, reloading weapons, etc...) by allocating 
 skill points earned throughout the missions.
  
  The graphics of NOLF2 are simply stunning. The characters are incredibly detailed and life-like, 
 while the environments have wonderfully rich colors and are full of texture. The Jupiter engine 
 created by Monolith was truly great for its time and provided some of the best-looking renderings 
 of water in a game to date. Going back and playing NOLF2 today leaves me feeling that the engine 
 has aged very well. In fact, Jupiter's facial animation system has only recently been outdone by 
 Valve's incredible Source technology.
  
  The sound effects and voice-acting in NOLF2 are both top-rate, and the musical score is superb. 
 Some of the best moments in the game are snippets of conversations you will overhear between H. A. R. M. 
 minions, as you sneak past undetected. The writing in the game, as a whole, is absolutely brilliant. 
 Practically every single joke is actually funny, with only a few causing me to shake my head at 
 the over-baked gags.
  
  Since its around 2 years old, NOLF2 can be purchased new from online stores for as little as $10, 
 and for even less used. At this price point, it is practically a crime not to own this game. If 
 you enjoy a great action title, and also could use a good laugh, look no further than No One Lives 
 Forever 2: A Spy in H. A. R. M.'s Way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liorde
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 31, 2005 2:07 am PT
Review:  I really enjoyed this game. It was filled with humor the lenght and difficulty is just about right 
 for a seasoned player like me.
  Also, the change of environments was great IMHO. I like it when you are able to play indoors and 
 outdoors and in the mean time enjoy
  some great scenery which was widely available and a pleasure to the eyes. I think that one of this 
 game's main moto was the humor
  and in this part the first game did a much better job. Maybe because of the originality of the 
 first, is what made it so special
  and perhaps this fact gave us players the expectation that the second will be even better. 
  
 One thing I can say that was improved here is the load times. In the first game the load times 
 were quite frustrating as a game wouls
  load in no less than 1 minute or even more. It did not happen here.
  
  The graphics of the 
 game were great and even nicer than the first one. Some nice effects were added here. 
  I really loved the gadgets, they were all useful (well maybe the kitten
  was not very useful...) 
 at their own times and it was easier for me to use them in this game.
  I also liked the character enhancement features in the game as you would be able to improve your 
 character as you would 
  collect experience points from various missions and things that you find or reveal secrets throughout 
 the game.
  
  Sound track and sound effects were just right, not too much and not too little. 
  The game gave 
 me no tech-issues whatsoever, which is something that maybe today we take as granted but take for 
 example a new game 
  F. E. A. R which was reported to be problematic with many sound cards and this takes the fun-factor 
 out right away until a fix
  is found.
  
  Gameplay was excellent, a superb blend of stealth, brawn and brain. There are times where you have 
 to blast your way out of
  situation in order to survive and at other times simply stay still and be quite. Kind of reminded 
 me of Deus Ex for a minute there.
  
  Honestly this is one of the most enjoyable games I have ever played, this and of course the first 
 one in the series.
  
  If there would be a third one, I will surely play it without t 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamerichard
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 15, 2005 10:37 am PT
Review:  The first No One Lives Forever was a great FPS featuring Cate Archer as a spy in the 60's. The 
 sequel is ranked even better, and I was really excited when I picked it up at the store. 
  
  
  The graphics aren't really that long away from earning a 10/10 actually. The game truly 
 lookes amazing, and there are many colors and some fine animations to find here. Cate Archer travels 
 through many different environments, and this game is really a feast for your eyes. 
  
  The sounds are also very good, and especially the music is good cause all of the tunes sounds like 
 the 60's. The sound effects are also very good and you can hear guards talking to eachother before 
 you eventually kill them or knock them out. The voice overs are also fantastic in both the cut-scenes 
 and the actual game. 
  
  This game is truly amazing! The gameplay is even better than the graphics and sounds, and that 
 says something. There are many interactive objects for you to either pick up or use there and then. 
 Many of them doesn't have any real purpose, but some of them may create sounds that will attract 
 guards and many of them has something to do with Cate's objectives. The game features about 15 
 levels, and many of them are very different in both environments and play style. Many of the missions 
 are some of the best I've ever seen in a First Person Shooter! Especially the 2nd level is great 
 where you do both classified and non-classified work. An example is when you have to turn on the 
 power to your cabbin. This is actually the best thing about this game! You sometimes have to find 
 sunglases and coffie and that is truly brilliant! Some of the later missions aren't just as great 
 as the first ones, cause they represent some chaos and isn't as well balanced and entertaining 
 as some of the others. The game also features a upgradable level system that can be compared to 
 the ones you so often find in RPG's. This works very good, and it's cool to see such a feature 
 in the shooter genre. The game also has a multiplayer mode, but this isn't worth mentioning cause 
 it's very bad, and you must take this game as a single-player game where there is a multiplayer 
 that shouldn't have been there. No One Lives Forever 2 is a fantastic game that every shooter fan 
 should own. 
  
  + 
  The graphics, the sounds and of course the 60's!! There are some very good voice over acting to 
 find here. The missions are great and some of them are fantasticly brilliantly good!! 
  
  - 
  The multiplayer! The game could have been a couple of missions longer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dougsan
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 20, 2005 11:51 pm PT
Review:  Play this game if you're a geek at heart. Play this game if like me you are a lover of all things 
 Tomb Raider (except for A. O. D.) . Play this game if you don't like Tomb Raider games. Play this 
 game if you are female and are searching for pay back. Play this game if you're male and like wearing 
 "frilly" things. Play this game if you are a man's man. Play this game if you have a good sense 
 of humor.
  
  Nothing is sacred in No One Lives Forever 2. All nationalities and religion in general are open 
 to innocent (?) poking. As are bosses, police, mimes, midgets, ... the list is too long to reproduce 
 here. I have to love a game that sends up mimes, Asian Indian policemen, German opera, etc. 
  
  But the game is also sufficiently involved to offer a challenge or two and all the bad guys 
 and gals you'll need. Buy it (and No One Lives Forever) and play it. I'll be surprised if you don't 
 play it a few times right off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mclazyj
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 4, 2005 5:26 am PT
Review:  No One Lives Forever 2 continues the adventures of Cate Archer and her battle against the organization 
 known as H. A. R. M. We pick up the adventures shortly after the first game with the director going 
 on vacation and handing over the reigns of U. N. I. T. Y. to Bruno Laurie. But of course, all is not 
 quiet or calm as disaster strikes and requires you to travel to Japan, India, Antarctica, Ohio 
 and Siberia. 
  
  The game starts you off head first into your assignment in Japan where you are trying to find out 
 what you can about the lastest plan devised by H. A. R. M. Right from the get go, you notice the change 
 in the interface that seems a bit smoother. You also start to get a bit irritated with the mechanics 
 of the searching of bodies. Run over them once for the general equipment, but continue to search 
 on them until the timer bar disappears and you might find something more important. Also, a simple 
 skill system is presented to you. Every piece of evidence or puzzle solving gets you skill points 
 which allow you to buy upgraded skills. I am not sure if these skills affected my gameplay or not, 
 but I do know that the game could of done just as well without it. After some slow missions in 
 the beginning, the game really steps up with a level in a tornado that is just breathtaking. 
 
  
  As always the humor that is the trademark of this series is here in full force. The sequence where 
 the H. A. R. M. agent blows his line and stares at the screen. Or the Robbie the Robot look a likes 
 that patrol the hallways. The stupid salutes that are required by an evil organization. The bicycle 
 chase on a... well, lets just leave that a secret, because when you see it, you will laugh your 
 rear off.
  
  The graphics in the game has been totally revamped from the first game. The character models are 
 supporting a lot more polygons and it shows. Everyone from Cate to Bruno to Armstrong look fantastic. 
 The detail in all the models shows the love that Monolith has for this series. The environments 
 as always look unique for each setting. You can see the difference in each location and it makes 
 you feel like you are there. 
  
  The sound while exquisite, is missing something with the change in voice actresses for Cate Archer. 
 I miss the Scottish accent that was carried by Cate in the first game. Not that the replacement 
 did bad, but it just did not live up to the first game's voiceover. The weapons and all the other 
 voice overs are good but are missing a bit of the polish that were in the first game.
  
  Overall, the game is a solid pick up that proudly carries on the tradition of the first game. However, 
 it is a bit short of the mark due to some of the voice over issues and the fact that it takes about 
 three or four chapters to picking up the pace. Find the game and play it, especially with the fact 
 that you can now get the game in a bargin bin for under $20. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pad69
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 20, 2004 6:11 pm PT
Review:  The visuals presented in No One Lives Forever 2 are incredible. Even from the start, players will 
 instantly become aware of the astounding water effects, moving grass, and detailed houses, to name 
 just a few things. No One Lives Forever 2 does a very respectable job with weather conditions. 
 One segment of the game has you combating ninjas while a massive tornado approaches. This level, 
 in particular, looks unlike anything ever seen before, thanks to the realism of the tornado. Additionally, 
 the ice looks so gorgeous that its difficult not to confuse it with genuine ice. Although No One 
 Lives Forever 2 does look outstanding, it will take a high-end computer to run it on the High 
 setting. Generally, No One Lives Forever 2 has plenty of attractive, detailed levels that should 
 impress any player of games.
  
  This game is funny and fun and I think well worth the money. I am suprised it was not more popular 
 with the masses. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Epicsoldier
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 25, 2004 2:11 am PT
Review:  This game has brought to the first person shooter genre what alot of FPS games sometimes can't 
 do,..... Great Single player!. The game has you doing the weirdest things, and you actually do things 
 that a real spy would do!. it's also fun to just sometimes sit back and listen to what some people 
 will say, they say the crazyist things, and they are funny. The A. I are not stupid at all either, 
 they are actually pretty smart, which makes the game hard at points. The graphics are very very 
 well done, some of the best graphics at the time and still are today, the water look obsolutely 
 amazing and the objects and effects are sweet. The multiplayer, is also a great part. They seemed 
 to hold up well on both ends this time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: martlume
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 20, 2004 12:24 pm PT
Review:  NOLF games are outstanding for no matter how serious a player you are you will have a good time 
 following the games humorous sixties' spy-style storyline, and for its characters which are at 
 least as distinctive and funny as those of the Austin Powers movies. The humour is driven by the 
 intelligence notes you have to pick up in every mission to earn skill points. The notes usually 
 develop a little story of their own and call for some twists in the plot which will have you not 
 only smirking but laughing out loud. That you always have fun is insured by difficulty settings 
 that can be adjusted at any time; it enables you to hone out any balancing issues (every game has 
 some) or make the places that seem repetitive or uninteresting pass quicker. The second thing that 
 makes for varied gameplay is the ability to often choose to complete your objectives by stealth 
 instead of killing (although the latter is usually easier and takes less time) . Thirdly, in addition 
 to the rather international locations (Japan, Russia, Ohio, India, Antarctica, a Turkish island) , 
 funny dialogue you overhear and even funnier enemy intelligence you constantly find, in relation 
 to other FPSs NOLF2 has a number of inventive features : tracking device that enables to attach 
 tracking darts to enemies, four different types of grenades, hiding feature where staying in certain 
 corners for a little you will become almost undetectable, bodies falling down the hill somersaulting, 
 and a wonderfully working character development system. The skill points earned for gathered intelligence 
 let you become better (faster) at many relevant activities: searching bodies, using gadgets, aiming, 
 firepower, shield, health etc. The only negative things to say about NOLF2 are rather long loading 
 times (bother when having difficult shootouts) and about three times in 15 levels having to look 
 for a silly little intelligence note (such as a barely noticable piece of paper on the floor) despite 
 having cleaned out the whole level (this is what made immersion 3 stars) . Overall, a superb game 
 though.
  
  
  19/20 - Based on : 25 HOURS
  4/4 PRODUCTION VALUES - Fantastic characters, good voice-acting.
  4/4 ACCESSIBILITY - Basic FPS 
 mechanics, gadgets take some getting used to.
  3/4 PACING - Not much repetition in NOLF2. If for anything, a point is deserved to be deducted 
 for the fruitless hour spent looking for those stupid notes in cleaned-out levels for three times.
 
  4/4 INNOVATION - How to pull together a game with humor, characters, and a plot. + gadgets and 
 smaller gameplay things.
  4/4 IMMERSION - Total. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Resplendent_Elk
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 15, 2004 2:27 pm PT
Review:  Stylish, witty, funny, challenging and well crafted, with graphics that are exquisite both technically 
 and artistically. NOLF2 also sports one of the best female characters in gaming history - Cate 
 Archer - foxy in that 60ies way, tough, cool, resourceful and definitely no game bimbo. Other characters 
 are also very memorable, as are the diverse settings, the delightfully quirky story and the sound. 
 The gameplay is solid and well balanced between stealth, action and exploration. Overall, this 
 game was well ahead of its time and personally I'd say it's the Half-Life of its time, although 
 way more underrated. NOLF2 might very well be the only game with a dramatic chase through an Indian 
 town on a tricycle where you dodge bullets from french mimes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Galyder
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 13, 2004 11:29 pm PT
Review:  Like spying? sneaking? killing? finding clues? using neat spy gadgets to outsmart your fool of 
 an enemie with the look and feel of a FPS?? NOLF2 A Spy In HARMS Way delivers! MMM delivery....
 
  
  How could you not like this twisted yet laugh your butt off storyline? Just as the first of the 
 series showed us our good friends at Monolith really know how to unfold a great plot
  
  New weapons, new spy gadgets and more sneaking about searching dark rooms for evidence... what more 
 could you want? what was that? great fire fights? Ninjas jumping off of and attacking you from 
 trailer trash homes and then suddenly a tornado shows up to ruin the whole thing?! ooh you got 
 it!
  
  -Galyder 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BeyondZork
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 11, 2004 12:53 pm PT
Review:  NOLF2 is witty, humorous, action packed, and gorgeous, and it is also a blockbuster-type accomplishment 
 of PC production. It simply does everything it is trying to do, right. The story is NOLF2 - i. e. 
 it does not attempt to follow any pre-existing model of success in gaming, or in story telling 
 (movies, books, etc.) . Instead Sierra, Fox, and Monolith have brought to us a game which defines 
 its own genre. I don't mean to gush here, I've played and reviewed tons of games, and I do have 
 a few small (very minor) qualms with the game, but enough just can't be said about the success 
 of this work.
  The graphics are gorgeous, highly detailed but not hyper-realistic or presumptuous - enemies, locals, 
 cutscenes, all look incredible, but also look intentionally like a PC game, not like an illusion 
 of real life. 
  The audio is out of this world, if you played NOLF 1, then you may be able to appreciate the beauty 
 of the sound engineering here, but make no mistake NOLF2 audio is even more well presented then 
 its predecessor. Do you like the voice-overs for KOTOR? How about Freedom Force? Call of Duty? 
 NOLF2's voice acting is superior to any of those titles (though they all come close) . Humor, wit, 
 sarcasm, it's all there in abundance.
  While the production values of the game are top notch, the story, gameplay, and overall depth of 
 the action are the real factors which set this game apart from others. It's just simply a hoot 
 to play. Tactics, stealth, gadgets, sniping, a full-on bomb rush with an AK-47 firing phosphorous 
 shells - each approach is a blast to experience. Enemy AI is about as good as it can get - enemies 
 will notice lights turned off, doors open, foot prints, etc. and will investigate, will respond 
 to wounded allies, etc. There can be a few improvements here but for the time NOLF2 was released 
 its AI was the best, for sure. 
  The plot and story line are simply terrific, as well. Just trust me. Buy this game, and then post 
 a rave review as well.
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
