-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: North vs. South
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/northvssouth/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 29, 1999
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.9
Critic Score: 5.8, 11 Review (s)
User Score: 5.6, 16 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Interactive Magic
Developer: Erudite Software
Genre: Strategy
Date:     Feb 28, 1999

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The engine simulates Civil War warfare about as well as a round peg fits into a square hole. 
 

 Quite often a game company comes across or develops a game engine that can be used for a great many 
 things equally well, requires little real maintenance, and can be expanded. You see it all the 
 time with first-person shooters like Quake and Unreal and to a lesser extent in strategy and war 
 games. Interactive Magic had one such engine, which was designed by Erudite and originally used 
 in the Great Battles series. After producing three Great Battles games, Interactive Magic ended 
 its collaboration with Erudite, and I-Magic could do anything it wanted with the versatile engine. 
 Originally, rumors indicated that the next game to use the engine would involve Attila the Hun, 
 or Genghis Khan, or even Napoleon, but that was not to be. Instead, we got the eastern theater 
 of the American Civil War in North vs. South.  

 To put things in perspective, I-Magic adapted a game engine suited to the rigors of ancients-era 
 warfare to a time period roughly two thousand years later and hoped all the game mechanics would 
 turn out right. Of course some changes were made, but in all fairness, the engine simulates Civil 
 War warfare about as well as a round peg fits into a square hole.  

 The engine provides a bird's-eye view of the battlefield, which is divided up into hexes to facilitate 
 movement and combat. The map shows terrain differences by height; terrain features like forests, 
 bridges, and rivers; and has three different zoom levels. Battles are fought in hourly turns, where 
 a commanding general can "activate" a specific number of officers under his command. (How many 
 times this can be done depends on the general's statistics.) These officers can then give commands 
 to their troops within a certain command radius. The idea is that the game's phases help create 
 momentum shifts and concentrations on certain intense areas of battle, since a general can be activated 
 any number of times (but can leave other troops just sitting around) , and you won't know which 
 side will get to go next.   

 Another facet of the game engine is the concept of morale (converted from unit cohesion from the 
 ancients period of warfare) - units take damage and deal it out in the form of shifting morale 
 for that unit. When the unit's morale reaches a certain level, it routs, and unless rallied in 
 time by a general, it permanently routs and is considered destroyed in the context of the game. 
 Generals can also restore morale if the conditions are right. Battles are typically won by the 
 side that can rout the designated allotment of opposing troops. This allotment is buoyed somewhat 
 by certain geographical victory locations.  

 Graphically, North vs. South has its good and bad sides. The maps look decent, but because of the 
 way the terrain is shaded, it is rather difficult to tell some of the height differences - and 
 worse, the highlights used to indicate command radii are barely visible. The unit size is typically 
 an individual brigade, which can take up to two hexes in length. Units can march in column formation 
 and then form a line; artillery can limber and unlimber; and cavalry can attack either way, depending 
 on how you want to use them. Units can engage in ranged fire (as a bit of a holdover from the ancients 
 period, it is still referred to as "missile fire") or go straight into melee.  

 North vs. South comes with ten battles from the eastern theater, some of which have rarely, if ever, 
 been simulated on the PC, which is a good thing. The battles included are Antietam, Brandy Station, 
 First Bull Run, Second Bull Run, Cedar Creek, Cedar Mountain, Five Forks, Gaines' Mill, Gettysburg, 
 and the Wilderness. At least one variant is given for each battle, providing some extra variety. 

 You also have the option of engaging in the campaign, which lets you choose a side and start at 
 the First Bull Run battle and work your way on from there. The campaign progresses as you win or 
 lose; the order in which the battles are fought completely depends on how you do. For instance, 
 if the Confederates win at First Bull Run, they go on to Gaines' Mill; another win moves them on 
 to Cedar Mountain. A loss would bring the Confederates to Five Forks, where a Union win would capture 
 Richmond and hence lose the war for the Confederates. The campaign also lets you refight the same 
 battles over the same territory - theoretically, if you were unlucky enough, you could fight an 
 endless loop of battles in the same three areas over and over again. The idea behind this is understandable 
 - the eastern theater narrowed the choices of battle locations and areas of maneuver for armies, 
 thereby providing the opportunity of fighting battles in roughly the same locations. In North vs. 
 South, however, the implementation of this concept is fundamentally flawed.  

 For instance, the history as given by the game's campaign table is wrong. The only way to fight 
 at Gettysburg (in 1863) is to fight the battle of the Wilderness (in 1864) , which only provides 
 the possibility for the victorious Confederate player to choose the Brandy Station scenario (1863) , 
 which is the only way to get to Gettysburg. This almost makes sense if you ignore the dates, but 
 unfortunately, none of it translates into the campaign game between battles. Let's say you manage 
 to kill off Stonewall Jackson at First Bull Run. Guess what? You'll still run into him later on 
 at Cedar Mountain.  

 Then there are the battles themselves - they just feel weird. The system just doesn't work - by 
 the time of the Civil War, and even somewhat before, units like brigades could operate somewhat 
 independently of command and not completely suffer for it. In North vs. South, a general may have 
 units in his command spread halfway around the map, making you play hopscotch with your general 
 to get them in the general's command radius. Units in combat leave behind scores of dead on the 
 battlefield, but can magically rejuvenate to essentially prebattle condition via the elixir of 
 morale.  

 While the Great Battles series' emphasis was on hand-to-hand combat, you'd expect the Civil War 
 should have an emphasis on ranged combat, right? One problematic holdover is that the Great Battles 
 games would pause after resolution of melee combat and let the player ask for more detailed reports. 
 North vs. South allows the same thing, but only for melee combat - missile combat, where the emphasis 
 should be, happens almost without notice. Your units could be under fire and you'd never know it 
 because the game won't tell you until after it happens.  

 North vs. South has bugs as well as design flaws. The running commentary window tells you what's 
 going on and who does what to whom, but it sometimes manages to say that it is shifting control 
 to you before resolving combat. So while you mistakenly think you can give orders, combat is just 
 being resolved on the screen. The combat animation is nice, but manages to look silly when half 
 of a two-hex brigade is fighting while the other half has already run away - or worse, a unit appears 
 to fight nothing but thin air. I've run into a number of graphical and sound bugs as well as one 
 that crashes every time I progress one battle in the campaign. Other players have not reported 
 the same technical problems, however. The scenario editor, while less buggy than the one shipped 
 with the Great Battles of Hannibal Collector's Edition, still manages to crash every once in awhile. 
 The AI is passable at times but can be easily confused and won't react well to adverse situations, 
 if at all.  

 Lastly, one of the nice things about the Great Battles games was the historical and battle documentation 
 that came included - great resources available on the CD-ROM in the form of Windows Help files. 
 This time around, Interactive Magic skimped on the extras. Try looking up the history behind one 
 of the battles, such as Cedar Mountain. You'll soon find yourself back in Windows, with your choice 
 web browser accessing a search engine for, you guessed it - Cedar Mountain. Now that's just plain 
 cheesy.  

 North vs. South has plenty of other minor problems. It might be worth a look if you are really desperate 
 to play some American Civil War battles (or play them with a friend via the multiplayer options) , 
 or at the very least to create your own. However, keep in mind that the game engine was not meant 
 to, and in fact does not, work well with modern warfare.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: herodotus2006
Rating: 3.8
Date: May 6, 2006 4:51 pm PT
Review:  Based on the same engine that drives the "Great Battles of..." trilogy, "North Vs South" should 
 have been, could have been, a very immersive game. The Classical titles previously (Alexander, Hannibal, 
 and Julius Caesar) had been very good initially, but had not progressed at all as they came along 
 in any definitive way. The "Battleground" series came out with beautifully hand-painted battlefield 
 maps (Gettysburg, Shilo, Antietam, Shiloh, including South Mounatain, and Bull Run) and gave the 
 history buff hours and hours of gameplay with unit structures, Orders of Battle, and varying historical 
 elements thrown in to contend with. Could you repeat Sickles' erroneous attack into the Peach Orchard 
 on the 2nd day at Gettysburg ( which almost cost the North its' left flank and the battle) , only 
 this time succeed? Could you beat back the Union line at Bloody Pond at Shiloh to reach Pittsburg 
 Landing? So when "NvS" came out, it was dumbfounding to find a game that had not stepped into the 
 shoes of the "Battleground" series, but had followed on from "Great Battles..." and actually worsened 
 since then.
  The graphics are awful. The game physics are very confusing, as the units still behave as if they 
 are with Alexander the Great. The Campaign is simply the seperate battles strung together. It does 
 give a choice of lesser known conflicts (Cedar Mountain, Cedar Creek, Gaines' Mill, Brandy Station) 
 but misses the chance of presenting pivotal battles that have all been neglected in gaming. The 
 cavalry battle at Gettysburg between J. E. B. Stuart (CSA) and Custer (USA) on the far right flank 
 from days 2-3, or Cold Harbour where 7,000 Union men fell in 20 minutes. When Grant ordered a thrid 
 assault, his officers ignored him or refused outright to carry out the order. GAMESPOT is correct 
 in pointing out glaring historical errors such as not being able to fight "The Battle of Gettysburg" 
 until you have fought "The Wilderness battle". Trouble is, the former took place from July 1-3, 
 1863 and the latter May 5-7, 1864. There has been no effort in researching the period it seems, 
 and for the life of me, I can't quite figure why this game was ever released at all. In the unpatched 
 retail version the icon for firing muskets is still a spear as it was in the older games.
  The Civil War era is what brings gamers to this product, and generally speaking the gamer who is 
 attracted to this usually has a pretty good grasp on the history of the period. This game flips 
 the bird at you, and re-writes history and Civil War tactics the way IT wants to. The Confederate 
 Army is always far stronger than the Union's which is historically incorrect in 95% of situations. 
 You cannot turn the tables at Shiloh, Gettysburg is a mess, and Antietam (where Lee could have 
 been annhialated) unrecognizable (even the abstract game/sim "The War College" presents this battle 
 better) . Overall, this one's a "bin" job. It's 'bin' done better, and it belongs in the bin. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
