-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Northland
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/northland/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr  8, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.1
Critic Score: 6.1, 10 Review (s)
User Score: 7.7, 88 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: GMX Media
Developer: Funatics Dev.
Genre: Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Mar 24, 2004

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Those who are new to the series may not get past Northland's dated graphics engine or game design, 
 which hasn't evolved with the rest of the RTS genre. 

  Northland, the third game in the Cultures real-time strategy series, has finally been released 
 in North America, after shipping last summer in Europe. The game offers a lot of content and is 
 sure to keep hardcore Cultures fans busy for quite a while. However, those who are new to the series 
 may not get past Northland's dated graphics engine or game design, which hasn't evolved with the 
 rest of the RTS genre. A showstopping technical glitch that affects ATI cards may keep some players 
 from even loading the game at all.  

          It takes a while to make heads or tails out of all of these buttons.     

  Northland 
 follows the story of a wandering band of Vikings, led by a quartet of heroes named Bjarni (son 
 of the famous explorer Leif Ericsson) , his lover Cyra, and their friends Hachi and Sigurd. After 
 saving the world in Cultures 2, Hachi and Sigurd have returned to their homelands, but Hachi soon 
 finds that his homeland is overrun by enemies. As a result, he calls upon his friends for help. 
 The game's campaign is spread out over eight missions, and you can also play an additional eight 
 stand-alone missions that are unrelated to the story. A handful of multiplayer levels are also 
 included, but there's no true matchmaking service available, and the LAN games we attempted were 
 unstable.  

  Speaking of bugs... When we first got our Northland disc, we were unable to load the game properly. 
 Launching the game would allow us to view the opening cinematic, and then we were dumped to a black 
 screen that presented us with just a cursor. Unfortunately, there's currently no patch for the 
 game, nor is there any troubleshooting information. After combing through the game forums, we learned 
 that this issue seems to afflict all recent ATI Radeon cards, including the 9500, 9600, 9700, and 
 9800 series. With some more research, we finally discovered a work-around to the problem on an 
 ATI-enthusiast site. Only by going into our video card properties and disabling DirectDraw and 
 Direct3D acceleration were we able to play Northland.  

  Once in the game, Cultures veterans will find that not a whole lot looks different in Northland 
 from Cultures 2. The graphics and interface are just about identical, so longtime fans will feel 
 right at home. Those who are new to the series, however, may feel intimidated at the outset by 
 the seemingly dozens of buttons and info boxes that pop up anytime you click on something. Thankfully, 
 a useful set of tutorial missions is included to help ease players into Northland's interface. 

  Northland uses the same 2D, isometric graphics engine as 2002's Cultures 2. The characters in the 
 game are cartoony; the landscape includes a lot of greenery and animals; and everything looks cheery 
 and colorful, with a vibrant palette. While the visuals have some charm in an artistic sense, on 
 a technical level, Northland's graphics fall short of most modern RTS games. Structures look blocky, 
 and you can easily lose track of your characters behind buildings or in dense forests because these 
 don't seem to become transparent when characters move behind them.  

  As far as the gameplay is concerned, Northland can be summed up in one word: tedious. The game 
 seems to be something of a fusion between a city-building game, a standard RTS, and a life simulation, 
 like The Sims. In most scenarios, you'll start from scratch with a band of Vikings. Your goal is 
 to try to establish a settlement that includes a headquarters (or city center) , farms, houses, 
 barracks, and special-crafts buildings, like stonemason shops, mills, bakeries, and smiths. The 
 problem with the game is that it forces you to perform so many mundane tasks to accomplish things 
 that most RTS players take for granted.  

  For example, one of the first things you'll want to do is create a farm. To do this, you'll need 
 a supply of clay and wood. This means that you'll need to take one of your Vikings, change his 
 job to clay extractor, and then send him off to harvest clay. You'll need to make another Viking 
 a woodcutter so that he can go off to find wood in a forest. However, the resources these Vikings 
 harvest aren't immediately usable. For your builders (yes, that's another profession) to gain access 
 to them, you'll first need to assign a carrier to ferry the materials from the collection sites 
 to your headquarters or warehouse. Finally, when these resources have been properly stored, you 
 can have your builders construct a farm. Of course, that farm needs a farmer to tend to it -- and 
 the farm needs yet another carrier to move the wheat from the field to the headquarters. Want to 
 make bread? Well, you'd better wait for your farmer to earn enough skill to become a miller (and 
 don't forget to build a mill) so that he can make flour. Only after working as a miller can your 
 farmer finally become a baker so that he can work in a bakery. As you advance a character from 
 one profession to another, you'll need to remember to have another idle Viking fill in the lower-level 
 role. From this example, you can imagine the Herculean task involved with producing something really 
 "complicated," like a weapon, potion, or protective amulet for a soldier.  

  Each of your characters has a name, and there are both male and females living in the village. 
 Only the males can hold professions though; the females only exist to marry one of the males to 
 provide him with children and cooked food. Seriously. This is the only manner in which you can 
 increase your population, and like everything else in Northland, it's a slow process from conception 
 to birth to child-rearing to productive adult Viking.  

  Sims-like elements come into play in that every one of your villagers has needs with regard to 
 hunger, sleep, and socialization. Thankfully, much of this is done automatically by the AI, but 
 you still have to deal with the effects of it in the form of inefficient workers. If your workers 
 are hungry, they will automatically stop what they're doing to go find something to eat. If they 
 have wives who cook for them, their hunger motives don't drain as quickly, and thus, they become 
 more efficient. Your Vikings will also sleep when the need arises. If they're homeless, they'll 
 just curl up on the ground and will then doze off, but this sleep isn't as restful as if it was 
 induced in a house, so you must make sure to provide homes for all of your characters. Vikings 
 also need to socialize, so don't be surprised if you see your villagers goofing off and chatting 
 it up instead of working.  

          Women in Northland exist to make babies and to cook. Apparently the Vikings weren't a very 
 progressive society.     

  Once you have all of these domestic issues sorted out, you'll still need to keep track of the world 
 around you by exploring, trading with or attacking other villages, and defending your own village 
 from attack. You'll run into non-player characters on the maps, and you can pick up treasure you 
 find lying around in chests, but chances are you'll be so caught up in the establishment and running 
 of your town that you won't get to the fun stuff for quite a while.  

  Overall, Northland falls short of delivering a satisfying experience. It's difficult to care about 
 the story or any of the characters in it when the game doesn't have any voice acting to lend personality 
 to it. Furthermore, it's tough to slog through all the minutiae the game throws at you. The tedious 
 busywork will be particularly irritating to anyone familiar with more-recent RTS games that bend 
 over backward to streamline mundane aspects of gameplay to focus on what's most important. If that 
 isn't reason enough to avoid Northland, ATI card users have to deal with figuring out a work-around 
 just to load the game. While hardcore Cultures fans and those who enjoy micromanagement may find 
 something to like in Northland, anyone else -- especially people with short attention spans -- should 
 look elsewhere.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (0 Reviews)
-------------------------------------------------
