-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Nosferatu: The Wrath of Malachi
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/nosferatu/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 29, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 7.0, 27 Review (s)
User Score: 7.4, 217 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: iGames
Developer: Idol FX
Genre: Fantasy First-Person...
Date:     Oct 19, 2003
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It's hard not to be won over by Nosferatu's uncanny atmosphere, especially if you're a horror fan 
 looking for something suitably spooky. 

  In some ways, Nosferatu: The Wrath of Malachi is the most satisfying horror game to hit the PC 
 in some time. It features an old-fashioned Universal movie sensibility, monsters that make you 
 leap out of your chair, and a creepy chateau that puts Dracula's castle to shame. In other ways, 
 however, Nosferatu is amateurish and annoying. Developer Idol FX makes some rookie mistakes here 
 with random monster spawning and an abbreviated plot heavily reliant on key quests that sometimes 
 make you more furious than frightened.  

          Whip out the crucifix, and you can chase off these leather-clad Count Orlock wannabes. 
     

  Still, it's hard not to be won over by the uncanny atmosphere, especially if you're a horror fan 
 looking for something suitably spooky this close to Halloween. Nosferatu is essentially a first-person 
 shooter set in a massive gothic castle. You play as James Patterson, an Englishman traveling to 
 Romania for the wedding of your sister Rebecca to the mysterious Count Malachi. The rest should 
 be pretty obvious. James' future brother-in-law is actually a vampire, and he's sequestered the 
 entire Patterson family in his cobwebby digs where they await an evil fate. Your job is to rescue 
 them and, in the process, foil whatever nefarious plan the ancient bloodsucker is concocting.  
 

  The gameplay is just as straightforward as the plot, cribbed from a thousand novels and movies. 
 If you've ever read a vampire story and played a shooter, there aren't any surprises here (although 
 the ending is more downbeat than you might expect) . Castle Malachi features a large courtyard that 
 serves as a hub for explorations in the east, west, and main wings of the castle. You venture into 
 the massive pile, kill monsters, find various sorts of keys (actual keys, sacred scrolls, and the 
 like) to unlock sealed chambers, and save your relatives by guiding them to a sanctified chamber 
 where they reward you with goodies from their suitcases. There are no puzzles to solve, no chasms 
 to leap, and no characters to role-play. The only variation on the usual formula is a time limit 
 of two hours to save everyone. Aside from this interesting tweak, this is an old-school shooter 
 in almost every way.  

          Fewer monsters to fight gives you more time to check out the ghoulish sights, such as this 
 picturesque locale in the castle cemetery.     

  Yet Nosferatu doesn't feel stripped down, like so many other cheapie shooters. While nobody will 
 mistake Nosferatu for a big-budget effort from a major studio, you don't need big bucks to scare 
 people. Idol FX has done a lot with very little here, building a spine-tingling setting with the 
 use of a few nifty touches. Graphics are a few years behind the times, but the developers turn 
 this into a plus with a grainy texture that makes the game look like a classic Universal monster 
 movie from the 1930s. Dark castle rooms emphasize this characteristic, which makes even the most 
 innocuous corridor appear somewhat ominous. Anyone who's watched those old films will immediately 
 flash to memories of Bela Lugosi as Dracula or Boris Karloff as Frankenstein's monster. Additionally, 
 the dialogue is often set up in a manner that is reminiscent of storyboards from silent movies, 
 like the game's main inspiration, the 1922 German film  Nosferatu .  

  The audio is even better. The musical score is tremendous and is the equal of anything that's accompanied 
 classic fright flicks. It rises and swells and comes with enough variations to never get on your 
 nerves. Even the pounding tempo that announces the imminent arrival of something that passed its 
 "best-before" date in the 15th century comes in so many flavors that it never fails to creep you 
 out. The music also features those high-pitched strings composers use to keep moviegoers on the 
 edge of their seats. Add to that disembodied voices, appropriate weapon slashes and booms, and 
 distinctive monster shrieks, and you have to fight the desire to cover your eyes at times.     
 

  The game's atmosphere is further developed by giving the player time to appreciate the scary surroundings. 
 Although action is fairly steady, you don't have to wade through hordes of creatures, as in Clive 
 Barker's Undying. You spend much more time in anticipation of what's going to pop out around the 
 next corner than you do in actual combat. Weapons reflect this measured pace. A sword, crucifix, 
 chalice of holy water, and single-shot flintlock (which takes an eternity to reload) are among 
 the key implements used to dispatch the undead. All but the flintlock, which needs just a single 
 bullet to kill most corporeal foes, and machine gun require a fair bit of use before enemies fall. 
 Many monsters attack with claws, jaws, and other melee weapons, so a lot of fighting is done up 
 close and personal.  

          Rescuing your aged relatives, such as whiny Aunt Emelie, provides you with lots to do in 
 Castle Malachi.     

  This doesn't mean that Nosferatu is easy. Monsters are very tough, even in groups of two or three -- and 
 especially if you let them get too close. They're also quick, so it's tough to keep them at a distance. 
 Zombies are veritable track-and-field champions, and other villains, like dogs, shadows, ghouls, 
 flintlock-firing corpses, scythe-wielding hunchbacks, and, of course, vampires (who slowly rise 
 from their coffins by eerily floating to a standing position) , aren't far behind.  

  Battles are frenetic and brutally short, albeit choppy, due either to poor animation or an attempt 
 to give the game the quick-cut feel of modern slasher flicks. Either way, it's something to which 
 you quickly get accustomed. It eventually seems fitting, due to the way it covers up AI quirks 
 that cause enemies to occasionally get stuck and because of the stamina meter that goes up during 
 every fight. When it gets high enough, you get tired, have problems fighting and running, can be 
 heard wheezing in fear and exhaustion, and even seem to hold your weapon with a shaky hand. Based 
 on your nervous condition, it's not a surprise that the camera is jerking around a bit.  

  There are some definite problems with game mechanics. Perhaps to make up for the absence of multiplayer 
 modes, Idol FX has made Castle Malachi completely random. Although the game is centered around 
 the courtyard hub and the wings of the castle that don't move, the rooms inside these parts of 
 the old heap are rearranged every time that you begin a new game. Not a bad idea. Unfortunately, 
 though, this neat building-block trick was made possible by making most of the rooms and corridors 
 fairly generic. You see the same iron gates, shields on a wall, and shadowy, torch-lit stairwells 
 numerous times -- even in the first hours of play. By the time the game ends, you're thinking more 
 about hiring Count Malachi an interior decorator than killing him. Thankfully, it isn't hard to 
 find your way around as the simple plot pushes you straight ahead in almost every situation.  

 
          Combat is pure hack-and-slash, complete with quick-cut camera effects and red slashes 
 on the screen.     

  Much more irritating is the random spawning of monsters. The number and type of creatures changes 
 constantly between loads, so you never really know what you're going to face. This is helpful at 
 times. If you run into overly stiff opposition in an important room, you can hit the quick-load 
 key and hope that easier foes are generated the next time. Doing this is actually necessary early 
 on, as the game is sometimes tough to the point of being unbalanced. And there is something to 
 be appreciated in never knowing when a monster is going to jump out from behind a door.  

  Mostly, however, the random spawning is a detriment. Quick saving is always a risk, even in an 
 empty room, as you never know what sort of company you're going to have when you reload. Save with 
 low health, and you chance getting killed the moment you reload, thanks to the pack of ghouls that 
 the random monster spawner decided to dump in your lap. In this situation, you often have to reload 
 the same save two or three times before getting a creature complement that you can handle without 
 taking any damage. Also, there isn't any directional sound support, so you often can't tell where 
 these spawned beasties are coming from until they attack you from out of the gloomy darkness.  
 

  So Nosferatu isn't exactly refined. Yet even with these flaws, the game is an impressive effort, 
 especially considering its bargain sticker price. Idol FX understands what it takes to scare gamers 
 and often lets them scare themselves by leaving pauses in the action so that they can think about 
 what might be waiting at the top of the next staircase. The developer might not have created the 
 most technically sound action-oriented horror game out there, but it  has  provided outstanding 
 thrills and chills.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (10 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: isosann
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 14, 2008 3:04 pm PT
Review:  its the best horror fps of its time for me. real good atmosphere. and makes u jump everytime a monster 
 comes from roof or somewhere else. altough its a old gme graphics r really enough for me. i enjoyed 
 playing it more than bioshock or any new games. i reccomend it if u love horror games and fps. dsfs 
 sdfsdf sdfsdf sdfsdf sdfsdf sdfsdf sdfsdf sdfsdf sdfsdf sfsdf sfsdf sfsdf sdfsdf sdfsdf sfsdf sfsdf 
 sfdsdf sfsf sdfsdf sdfsfd sfsdf sdfsdf sfdsf sdfsdf sdfsdf sfsf sdsdf sdfsdfsdfsdf sdfsdf sdfsdf 
 sdfsdf sdfsdf sfdsdf sdfsdf sdfsdf sdfsdf dsfsdf sdfsdf sdfsdf sdfsdf sdfsdf sdfsdf sdfsdf sdfsdf 
 sdfsdf sdf df sdfsdf sdfsdf sdfsdf sdfsdf s sdf fgdfg dfgdfg dfgdfg dfgdfgd dfgdfg dfgdfg dfgdfg 
 dfgdfg dfgdfgdf dfgdfgdfg dfgdfgdfg dfgdgdfgd dgdfgdgfdfg dfgdfgdgdg dfgdf dg fdgdfgdfg dfgdfg 
 dfgdfg dfgdfg dfgdfgd dfgdfgdf dfgdfgdf dfgdfgdfg dfgdfgdfg dgdfgdfgd dfgdgdfgdf dfgdfgdfgdfg dgdfgdfgdfg 
 dfgdfgdgdfgd dgdgedgdfgdggdgdfg dfgdgdfgdg dfgdgdgdf dfgdgdgdfgdgd fdgdfgdfgdfg dfgdfgdfgdfgdf 
 dfgdfgdfgdfgd dgdfgdggdgdfgd dfgdfgdfgdfg dfgdfgdfgdg dfgdfgdfgdfg fdgggdgdf dfgdfgdgdfg dgdgggd 
 dfgdfdgg ggggdgd gdgg 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChristianKiss
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 18, 2008 8:35 am PT
Review:  Developed by Idol FX and published by iGames, Nosferatu: The Wrath of Malachi (2003) is an ambitious 
 Horror First-Person Shooter. You control a guy called James Patterson, who is after his family 
 and some friends, now captured by the vampire Malachi. Your job, naturally, is to rescue your relatives 
 from the castle of the vampire, as well to stop Malachi's plan to transform the world into a home 
 of bloodsuckers.
  
  You start the game at the castle's courtyard, and from there your can access all the three areas 
 that forms the huge structure. But Nosferatu isn't a non-linear game as it may sounds, since most 
 places are locked and you must find a key or a specific object to proceed. But there're many rooms 
 that you can go without a particular order, and this will give you a good sense of freedom.
  
  Also, you'll notice that Nosferatu features an intriguing randomization system, which is very 
 good considering this game doesn't have a multiplayer mode. Almost everything is randomized, such 
 as position of enemies and family members, items found in chests, and type of monsters you may 
 face. That adds a good replay value to this game, although the random system could have been much 
 better. For instance, if you quick save while standing in an area where you killed a monster, and 
 then you load the game you may be attacked from behind, even if that place were empty before saving 
 the progress. Also, random monsters are re-spawned every time, no matter if it's a place that you 
 just visited or not.
  
  The enemies you'll battle against in Nosferatu are all very well done, especially the vampires, 
 the spooky bloodsucking undeads that rise from coffins. There are also ghouls, shadows, demons 
 and so, each one with a particular behavior. And when you're gonna fight to one of them, a "jump" 
 music starts playing and you'll know that something is wrong with that dark corner.
  
  The sound in Nosferatu plays an important role, especially to build the frighting atmosphere. Most 
 of the monsters squeal angry screams during the battles, which can be scary if you set your sound 
 high enough. The graphics aren't bad, and the grainy textures will give a "nightmare look" while 
 you venture deeper into the Malachi's castle.
  
  Idol FX developers tried to stay away from the generic weapons of most of the First-Person Shooters, 
 and by doing so Nosferatu will surprise you with the Crucifix, the Ancient Chalice and the Wooden 
 Stakes, all of them useful. The Crucifix, for example, can bless the water to fill up the Chalice; 
 while the stakes can be used as torches or even effective weapons against certain types of enemies. 
 But there're common weapons too, like the revolver, the musket and the sword.
  
  Rescuing your relatives is probably one of the most interesting concepts in Nosferatu. All of them 
 are located in one of the three areas in the castle, accessed through the courtyard. But their 
 positions aren't fixed, since most of them are located in random rooms, and if you decide to load 
 a saved game, almost everything will change again. Anyway, it isn't hard to find your relatives, 
 and when you meet one of them, he/she will give you some information and ask you to scout him/her 
 to the courtyard, where is located a safe place, like a sanctuary, which the rescued family members 
 stay. After bringing someone to the sanctuary, you'll receive a particular item, usually very useful 
 against the demons in Malachi's castle.
  
  The default difficult setting isn't too punishing, but it's enough to make the boss battles challenging 
 sometimes. After defeating some of the though guys, there is an interesting thing, which I'll not 
 spoiler here, that you must do to end the demon for once and for all. Also, I noticed that Idol 
 FX decided to put two possible finals, both with cutscenes: one if you're victorious, and another 
 one if you fall in the wrong hands, obviously shown when you're defeated. Even been a simple idea, 
 I found that interesting.
  
  The problem with Nosferatu is that every good concept present in this game is haunted by bugs or 
 mistakes. First of all, rescuing the relatives can be a pain, since they stop following you when 
 you load the progress, start fighting, or even when you touch them. So you need to approach the 
 guy and tell him to follow you one more time. Also, most of your weapons must be reloaded, but 
 you can do so even if the clip is full. Doing that repeatedly will suddenly empty all your extra 
 ammo. I noticed too that some random items cannot be picked up, with any apparent reason. Another 
 annoying bug is the "invisible" opponents, an issue that seems to be triggered especially in the 
 final area of the castle. There're some other bugs, but I think the main problem is that you can 
 experience a crash after a certain cutscene is shown, which happens when you're in the last area 
 of the castle.
  
  There are also some mistakes in Nosferatu, although I'll not list all of them here. There is only 
 one I found really annoying: the clock. You must always run against the time, since your relatives 
 are scheduled to be sacrificed at a specific hour. When seven of your relatives are dead, Malachi 
 becomes immortal, and the game is over. In my point of view, a horror game must be played without 
 any hurry, otherwise the suspense will be break and the most important aspect of the game is gone. 
 Additionally, since you're always trying to do things fast, the game will finish as sooner as you 
 can imagine.
  
  I would easily rate Nosferatu as 9.0 or even 9.5, but the problems present in it made me lower 
 the score to 8.0, and that's only because this game is so intriguing and ambitious that gave it 
 a lot of credit. If you can overlook its issues, then you'll find Nosferatu a worth playing game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JOE714
Rating: 8.6
Date: Sep 29, 2006 12:17 pm PT
Review:  I am a huge fan of haunted houses, forests, and castles. Every year at around Halloween, the local 
 theatre flunkies and Savini wannabees contribute their oft-impressive talents toward building a 
 temporary home for wraiths and zombies. Just this week, in fact, no less than four spook cities 
 opened along my route to work. The only possible repellent to my love for stumbling through a darkened 
 hallway, waiting for the next stuffed ghost to fly by or facepainted part-timer to chase me with 
 a fake chainsaw, is bad word-of-mouth; for my own contribution to the grapevine, the haunted mansion 
 at Six Flags Over Georgia is the worst, lamest maze of half-hearted scares Ive ever seen, while 
 to name my favorites over the past few years would take a while.
  
  I bought a copy of Nosferatu based on the promise of a similar boogers-and-haints experience, and 
 Im glad to say that the game delivers on that promise. Malachis castle is lousy with all manner 
 of evil dead, many of them of the vampiric variety. Ghouls, zombies, and even genuinely unsettling 
 demons broaden the menagerie to include just about everything I ever dreaded as a kid. With little 
 more than burning stakes to light my way, I was frequently startled into firing my sole musket 
 round into the moldy floorboards of Malachis castle as my attacker carved bloody gashes across 
 my field of vision. To that end, the weapons were balanced just right for a heightened sense of 
 panic, although I quickly learned to follow the games music cues to avoid most ambushes. The available 
 weapons were also very creative; chalices of holy water, flintlock pistols, and the requisite crucifix 
 were a welcome change of pace following the extensive WWII-themed FPS binge that preceded my purchase 
 of Nosferatu.
  
  Nosferatus room randomization feature was a bit overrated, mostly because its main purpose was 
 to add more urgency to the games execrable beat-the-clock element. There are two (thankfully rare) 
 FPS conventions that I cannot stand: tightly-timed sequences and a lack of quicksaves. Nosferatu 
 does allow the player to save anywhere (although its possible to reload with something dreadful 
 already waiting nearby) , but friends and family members will drop like flies (or, more accurately, 
 hang like butchered meat) in short order. Many of the games deadlines are set far too early in 
 the evening considering that the protagonist has until dawn to save the world. The ever-present 
 timer wasnt too much of a problem  I only lost dear Melissa to Malachis depravations  but I 
 still dont like to rush through a game in favor of thorough exploration.
  
  Otherwise, Nosferatu was an adrenalizing blast on a level of the best seasonal spookfests. A sequel 
 set in a haunted forest would be perfect, as long as the timed objectives are put to rest. In the 
 meantime, The Wrath of Malachi is a fairly satisfying fix for funhouse fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gprado
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jun 8, 2006 11:26 am PT
Review:  Nosferatu its easy to play and has a nice concept. Its difficult not to feel like saving all 
 the character's family and you sure will have a few good moments around the castle. Monsters and 
 guns are ok, as well as the combats, for a not expansive game released three years ago. But the 
 constant map reconstruction and lack of starting points in the inside difficult the game process, 
 especially if you dont have a couple of hours to play uninterruptedly. And, obviously, I felt 
 a bit disappointed as the game uses the name Nosferatu, but makes no mention to the famous cinematographic 
 vampire. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wishlist2006
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 17, 2006 9:19 am PT
Review:  This game is brilliant, really creepy. The ONLY gripe I have is that for the life of me I cannot 
 find one single health cheat anywhere, and boy have I tried. With undying I found loads of cheats 
 which really helps but with this game i can, t find any atall. Does anyone know of a health cheat 
 that gives you god mode? (like in undying) I, ve managed to find the garrisson key and 2 men and 
 one lady so far, but the rate at which the monsters appear, even in easy mode is very difficult. 
 Otherwise it, s a great game, highly recomended, BUT I just one ONE health cheat thats all. I can 
 cope with having to find the ammo etc I just want a health cheat then I, ll be happy. Thanks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sew015
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 28, 2005 3:57 pm PT
Review:  This game is so scary didn't play it at night. The music is what really gets to players. The creepy, 
 and dark castles does too but thats expected from horror games. As your character you are sent 
 to the cliche vampire capital Romania aka Transylvania. You get to the castle and realize something 
 is wrong all of your family is missing. They were planning to meet here for a wedding. So you embark 
 on a mission to save them. And the pee your pants horror begins. The monsters on this game do scare 
 you and make you use different methods to kill them. They range from: hellhounds, alien vampire 
 monster, zombies, and musket wielding creatures, who strangley appear to be from Mexico. Anyway 
 you explore the castle fighting monsters and getting lost, and eventually you'll come across some 
 uber vamp boss you just needs a stake through the heart to kill. 
  
  Over all the game is fun and changes each time you play make it a game to repeat. But if you are 
 sensative don't play. Please!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: britneyyy
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 29, 2005 3:08 am PT
Review:  this game have realy the best horror athmosphere ever. The story about Vampires allways are good. 
 We must for the 1 nigh save the whole bunch of people in castle, similar atmosphere as painkiller 
 expansion.
  And parts of Clive Barker's Undying but much better.
  Only bad thing is that can be finished realy fast.
  But you can play it Again.
  Variety of 
 weapons also good.
  We have there 3 wing castle , script scenes when in bacground some killing are hapening also good.
 
  maybe cheap 1disc only but surprisingly good.
  Random spawning of creatures and you must change weapons fast as you will be done in Quake 3 . 
 cross , stake, holly wate pistol..
  Timelimit in game is verygood for adding the creapy and tense atmosphere,
  
  There should be 
 more of this :-P
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kmilo_rws
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 1, 2005 4:31 am PT
Review:  Nosferatu is a weird mix. It suffers from very basic collision bugs, clunky fighting system, poorly 
 animated characters, boring gameplay... the list goes on. But, as strange as it seems, I can't 
 stop having fun with this game. 
  Nosferatu manages to be addictive, and as combination between first person shooters and the survival 
 horror genre, it delivers. Maybe its not that great, but it delivers.
  
  I'm going to begin with Nosferatu's weaknesses. First of all, this game is from 2003. One can easily 
 think that it's older than that because of its graphics. None of the characters (except the final 
 bosses) or the weapons are well modelled nor well animated nor well textured.
  The environments are not that bad, and it's a nice detail to begin a new game with an entirely 
 random castle. 
  
  And that leads us to the gameplay. That feature is a nice touch to keep things fresh, but things 
 start to go wrong when you find yourself in another castle EVERYTIME YOU LOAD A SAVED GAME. You're 
 about to rescue a member of your family, but for ABC reason you must save the game and quit. You 
 come back later, load your saved game only to find yourself surrounded by monsters, and the member 
 of your family is nowhere to be found. Nice!
  
  The game also suffers of very basic collision bugs. You can see how your weapons clip through the 
 walls. Not enough? The mouselook is so badly implemented that if you stick to a door and look down, 
 you will see a Loading screen (if applicable) and what's beyond that door. Now do the same, but 
 this time stick to a wall. You'll see what I mean.
  The combat is very clunky. You can't attack an enemy with a melee weapon if you stay too near of 
 it. You must get back and then attack. The enemies are also very fast. And don't even think fighting 
 three of them at the same time.
  
  The animations are so poorly done that when you hit a wall with your sword, you can hear the noise 
 of the sword hitting the wall. THEN the animation plays. I'm not sure if the same goes for the 
 long range weapons.
  
  Talking about weapons, these are very unbalanced and underpowered. The sword is the most powerful 
 weapon in the game, and the long range weapons take an eternity to reload and... they suck. The 
 machine gun is good, but the ammo doesn't last.
  Also it's strange that you find a machine gun in your uncle's trunk. What the hell is he? A boss 
 of the mafia? No, it can't be, since this game is not based on the thirties. Strange indeed!
  
  The sound is better than average. The voice acting is very convincing at times, and the musical 
 score is very well done (by far the best aspect of the game) . It changes radically to a scary theme 
 when a monster suddenly appears from the floor. Be warned: this can make you jump off your chair.
 
  
  There is a lot of replay value thanks to the randon castle feature. The game lacks of multiplayer 
 but, would you like multiplayer with a game with those kind of bugs?
  
  To make a long story short, despite its many flaws, Nosferatu still remains as a fun and ingenuitive 
 game, all things considered. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liorde
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 18, 2003 3:14 am PT
Review:  This game's most neat aspect is that you *never* get to play the same map/s again. Each time you 
 start a game everything is randomized, which keeps the replayability value much higher than a regular 
 linear plot game. 
  Although I have never beat the game, I cannot even determine when I will since this game is rather 
 difficult. More difficult than most games I have played under the same difficluty settings. I am 
 playing on "Easy" difficulty now, and it is still quite hard. Also, the game puts you in sort of 
 a race, a race to save your captured family members which are spread around the massive castle's 
 rooms. So you have to act and on the double in this game. This is not so fun in my opinion. I like 
 to take my time, and look around, explore, enjoy the environment & graphics.
  This game's most prized feature in my point of view , is the sound system. It can really get you 
 off your seat in many cases. This game "must" be played in a dark room, preferably with headsets 
 on and no interference. You gotta concentrate to get the full effects of the sound. I really jumped 
 quite a few times, more than I did in games like System Shock 2 and Undying.
  If it is graphics you are looking for then this game does not offer much, especially when most 
 of the time you go around in the dark, so there is not much to see. Graphics are not the strong 
 point here.
  Gameplay can be frustrating at times. First, there is a flintstock gun that you find as your first 
 REAL weapon. (The first is a sword) . It takes ages to load + the ammo is scarce, and holds only 
 1 bullet each time. Only after you find a realtive, you get a six shooter as a prize. Also, the 
 fact that it is unclear to me if all relatives should be saved in order to beat the game, or only 
 a few ?? Is there a minimum, I dont know...
  I would recommend this game to any seasoned FPS gamer who likes the atmosphere of being inside 
 mostly, rather than on the outside exploring. The game's pace is quite fast and the dark environemts 
 can get annoying at times.
  All in all, I am dying to finish the game already. I have tried quite a few times but to no avail. 
 Hopefully soon though, I can post my walkthrough here.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gpolidoro
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 4, 2003 8:05 am PT
Review:  I really liked Clive Barker's Undying, so I was looking for this game. Anyway It has not the good 
 Undying's backgorund story, in Nosferatu you will find more action and less puzzle, you have not 
 much to ask yourself what to do.
  This game is very simple in his developement. Your main quest is try to get the right key for to 
 get to the next level and really nothing more, and meanwhile you will try to rescque your family 
 parents.
  Anyway the powerful sound system is able to scare you very well, and it will let close your eyes 
 for an outdated graphic engine. 
  The graphic level of detail is very similar to Unreal (the same engine used in undying) and this 
 is not a good things when we are closing to the end of 2003.
  In Nosferatu the action goes really fast, you will not have many time to relax yourself. The clock 
 will not stop, and you have a time limit in order to complete your quest and face the evil master 
 undead. However the simple story will keep you glued on your seat in order only to see how will 
 be the end.
  i have found the difficulty setting a little be hard on the normal level, so I suggest you to play 
 Easy on your first game.
  the random generated castle will keep your interest a little bit more longer that any usual first 
 person shooter.
  If you think that graphic is not all in a game, and if you are a Horror movie fan, epecially for 
 the Gothic Horror, then please give it a peep it's really worth of playing expecially when you are 
 in your dark room with a good headphones set. He he he.. But be advised this thing can really give 
 you a heart attack! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
